JOHN REDMOND'S LAST YEARS

BY

STEPHEN GWYNN

LONDON

EDWARD ARNOLD

1919

[All rights reserved]

PREFACE

In writing this book, I have had access to my late leader's papers for the period beginning
with the war. These were placed at my disposal by his son, Major William Archer Redmond, D.S.O.,
M.P. I had also the consent of Mrs. Redmond to my undertaking the task. But for the book and
for the opinions expressed in it I am solely responsible. No condition having been imposed
upon me, it seemed best, for many reasons, that it should be written, as it has been written,
without consultation.

A writer in whom such a trust has been placed may well be at a loss how to express his gratitude,
but can never convey the measure of his anxiety. 

The Monastery of San Martin, lying on the height, is a respectable system. A bachelor Only,
as you can see the prince Pallagonia, has produced rare something sensible, several together,
however, the greatest of all works, as shown by churches and monasteries. But had the spiritual
societies probably the only reason why so much because it is still more than any Father an unlimited
progeny were certain.

The monks let us see their collections. store of antiquities and natural; some things she Schoene.
We were particularly struck a medal with the image of a young goddess, excite the rapture had.
Us would have liked the good men an impression given, But it was
nothing at hand, which would have been more suitable to any kind of
form.

After they are all presented, not without sad comparison of previous and present- States, they brought
us into a pleasant little room, from the balcony to a lovely Views enjoyed, here was covered
for us both, and there was no lack of a very good lunch. After the applied Dessert came in the Abbot,
accompanied by his oldest monks, sat down with us and stayed about half an hour, during which
time we answer some questions had.

We parted in the friendliest. Disciples who accompanied us again in the room the collection
and finally to the car.

We went home with quite different attitudes than yesterday. Today we had a great regrettable institution
that just sinks at the time, however, on the other side, a tasteless Businesses with fresh produce
growth increases.

The road to San Martin goes up the older limestone '.

We then had shattered the rocks and burns from lime, which is very white. To burn they need
a strong, long grass, dried in bundles.

So here we have the Calcara. is up to the steepest heights Red clay
washed up, who here presents the embankment soil, the higher the redder,
little by Blackened vegetation.

I saw in the distance almost like a pit cinnabar.

The monastery is located in the limestone regions', which is very rich source. The mountains around
are well cultivated.

Palermo, Wednesday, 11 April 1787.

When we now consider two main points outside the city, we went to the palace, where the business is running
the room and showing off their content. To our great horror was the hall where the antiques are usually
positioned in the greatest disorder, because is a new architectural decoration in the works had.
The statues were of their bodies taken away, draped with towels, adjusted with skeletons, so
that despite all good Will of our leaders and some efforts of craftsmen
but only a very incomplete Term could acquire it.

Most of all I was doing to the two rams of ore, which, even under these circumstances seen the
artistry greatly built. They are presented horizontally, one paw forward, turned their heads as counter-images
in different directions; mighty to take figures from the mythological family, and Helle Phrixus
worthy. The wool is not short and curly, but long and wavy falling down, with great truth
and elegance formed from the Greek prime. They should have been in the port of Syracuse.

Now the run leads us out of town in catacombs, which, with architectural
Sense applied, not used to Grabplaetzen quarries are.

In a fairly hardened Tuff and the vertical wall are crafted arched openings and within these
Coffins unearthed more about each other, everything from the ground, without any Nachhuelfe
of masonry. The upper coffins are smaller, and in the rooms above the piers are Graves for
children placed.

Palermo, Thursday, 12 April 1787.

They showed us today the medal cabinet of the Prince Torremuzza. In a way I went reluctant towards.
I understand the art of too little, and a merely curious traveler is true connoisseurs and
lovers hated.

Since you deigned to start but once it has, so I had like this and much pleasure and advantage.
What a profit, even if one only provisionally see how the old world was dotted with towns whose smallest,
if not a number of art history, but at least some of the same periods in our delicious Coins
left behind. From these drawers are an infinite laughs spring from flowers and fruits of art,
one in a higher sense led life industry and what not even more prominent.

The splendor of the Sicilian cities, now obscured, gleams from these formed metals fresh again
contrary.

Unfortunately, we have another in our youth obsessed only Familienmuenzen,
say nothing, and Kaisermuenzen that repeat ad nauseam the same profile:
pictures of rulers, which are not to consider just as types of humanity.

How sad is not it our youth to the formless and Palestine on the formative confusing Rome limited!
Sicily and Neugriechenland leaves me now to hope a fresh life.

I walked in great on these subjects in general reflections, is a proof I've learned do not understand
much of it, but that is with the rest gradually add already.

Palermo, Thursday, 12 April 1787

Today evening I was still fulfilling a request, on its own way. I stood in the great road to the step
stones, joking in that store with the purchase of the Lord; on When a run-time, large well-dressed,
approached me, a silver plate rapidly suspensions, which several copper coins, a few pieces
of silver were. Since I did not know of what it should, so I shrugged, ducking his head, shoulders,
the usual sign which one gives up, whether we do not understand the
request or question, or do not want.

As quickly as he arrived, he was gone, and now I noticed on the opposite Side of the road to his
comrades in the same employment.

What this meant, I asked the salesman, with the gesture of concern, as it were by stealth, pointed
to a long, lean gentleman who in the middle of the street, dressed
hofmaessig, decent and calm about the mess walked along.

Coiffed and powdered, under the hat the arm in a silk dress, the sword at his side, a nice
walk with jeweled buckles adorned: so went the Elderly associated
serious and quiet, all eyes were on him.

"This is the Prince Pallagonia" said the dealer, "which from time
to time by the city and goes for zusammenheischt the captive in Barbary
slaves a ransom.

Although amounts to This collection not much, but the object remains in memory, and often
leave those who held back during his lifetime, nice sums for such purpose. Already many Years,
the chief prince of this institution and has tons of donated much good "

"Instead of the follies of his country seat," I exclaimed, "here he would have those big Sums
are to use. No prince in the world would have done more. "

Contrast, the businessman said: "We're all so our follies we pay at all happy! even to our other virtues
should give the money. "

Palermo, Friday, 13 April 1787

Proposed Works in the stone kingdom of Sicily, Count Borch has us very busy, and who is after him Similarly,
the island visited, he is quite happy to pay you. I find it enjoyable pflichtmaessig and to
celebrate the memory of a predecessor. I'm just a ancestor future of others, in life as on
the trip!

The activity of the count seems to me the way, bigger than his knowledge,
he proceeds with a certain self-complacency, which is contrary to
the modest seriousness with which we to treat important belongings.

However, is his fourth book in quite the Sicilian Steinreich given me a great advantage, and
I was prepared by the stone grinder visit with benefits, which, earlier more busy at the time
when churches and altars with marble and agate had to be given to the craft but still continued
driving.

With them I ordered samples of soft and hard stones, for they differ marble agates and mainly because
the difference of the price differences after this directed. But they know except those two get a lot
of material, a fire product their lime kilns. These can be found after the fire a kind of glass
flow, which of the brightest blue color to the darkest, blackest yes to go over. These lumps are
like other rock cut into thin sheets, estimated by the height of
their color and clarity and instead of lapis lazuli at the veneer
of altars, tombs and other religious ornaments applied with success.

A complete collection as I wish she is not ready, they will be my first Send to Naples. The
agates are of the greatest beauty, especially those in which irregular spots of yellow or red jasper
with white, as if frost- Crystals alternate and thus produce the most beautiful effect.

An exact imitation of such agates through on the back of thin sheets of glass paint colors the effect
is the only sensible thing I found out from the pallagonischen nonsense of that day. Such panels
take for decoration more beautiful than the real agate by this from
many pieces to be assembled, with those on the other hand the size
of the panels the architect depends.

This Kunststueck well deserves to be imitated.

Palermo, 13 April 1787

Italy without Sicily leaves no image in the soul: this is just the key to everything.

From the air you can not say good enough, now it is wet season, but always interrupted; Today it
thunders and lightning, and everything is green with power. The flax has been some nodes won,
blooming the other part. They believe in the reasons small ponds to see so beautiful Leinfelder
the blue green at the bottom. The lovely belongings are countless! And my Journeyman is an excellent
man, the true Hoffegut, as I honestly continue to play the good friend. He has already made
quite nice contours and will bring with me the best. What a prospect, one day with my treasures
happy to come home!

Eating and drinking in this country I have not said anything, yet
it is not a small Article.

The Gartenfruechte are superb, especially the salad of taste and tenderness like milk, you realize
why the ancients called him Lactuca. The oil, the wine be all very well, and they could be
even better if they are prepared to be more care used. Fish the best, most tender. We also have very
good this time beef ago had, whether you like it will not praise otherwise.

Now, from lunch to the window! on the road! There was an offender
pardoned, which happens in honor of the saving Easter week.

A brotherhood it leads to under a sham built gallows, where he has to perform before the conductor has
a prayer, kiss the head and then taken away again. It was a handsome man of middle class, coiffed,
a white coat, white hat, all white. He wore his hat in his hand, and you would have him here and
there allowed to adhere only colorful ribbons, he could as to Schaefer each Redoute go.

Palermo, 13 and 14 April 1787.

And so should it be brought to me shortly before the close of a strange
adventure, of which I give immediately circumstantial.

Even the whole time of my visit I heard about some of our public tables
Cagliostro, whose origin and destiny are talking about.

The Palermo was agreed that A certain Joseph Balsamo, born in their city, notorious for many
bad jokes and was banished. But whether this was just a person with Count Cagliostro, were about
it in dispute. Some who had formerly seen him wanted his form in that Engravings find, is known
to us enough, and had also come to Palermo.

In such talks is one of the guests referred to the efforts, which
is a Palermo Lawyer taken over, bringing this issue into the clear.

He was by the French Ministry have been initiated to trace the tradition of a man, which the nerve
had had, may in the sight of France, so you probably say to the world at an important and
feels dangerous processes, the most ridiculous fairy tales.

There was this lawyer, told you, set up the family tree of Joseph Balsamo and sent an explanatory
memorandum with enclosures certified to France, where it will probably make public use.

I voiced the wish that legal scholars, of whom also speak a lot of
good was to get to know and to the narrative offered me to sign for
him and for him to Market leaders.

After a few days ago we went and found him busy with his clients. When he it cleared and we
had taken the breakfast, he produced a manuscript, which the pedigree of Cagliostro, which in
its grounds to copy the necessary documents and contained the concept of a memoir, which had
been sent to France.

He presented the family tree and gave me the necessary explanations about it, what I'm here cite
as much as necessary to access is easier.

Joseph Balsamo's great-grandfather mother's side was Matthew Martello. The name of his birth Great-grandmother
is unknown. From this marriage sprang two daughters, one named Mary, at the Joseph Bracconeri married
and Grandmother was Joseph Balsamo. The other, called Vincent, married to Joseph Cagliostro, who
from a small place La Noara, eight Miles from Messina, was born. I note here that at Messina
two bell of this name live. This great-aunt was subsequently the inspiration for Joseph Balsamo,
he received the Christian name of her husband and finally took away
also the surname of his Cagliostro Great uncle.

The couple Bracconeri had three children: Felicia, Matthew and Antonin.

Felicitas was married to Peter Balsamo, the son of a Bandhaendlers in Palermo, Antonin Balsamo, probably
descended from the Jewish race. Peter Balsamo, the father of infamous Joseph made bankrupt
and died in his forty-five years.

His Widow, who still lives at present, except the named Joseph gave him a daughter, Johanna-Maria
Joseph, who was married to Johann Baptista Capitummino who with her father of three children
and died.

The memorandum, which read to us the pleasing author and me at my request a few days confided,
was founded on birth certificates, marriage contracts and other instruments with care were
collected. It contained about the circumstances (as I made an extract, which I then made to
see) that we are now known from the Roman court records, that Joseph Balsamo, born in June
1743 initially to Palermo, from Vince Martello, married Cagliostro, lifted out of the baptism
was that he made in his youth, the dress of the Merciful Brothers, an order which particularly cared
for the sick, that he soon much talent and skill for the medicine has been shown yet but dismissed
because of his performance evils that he Palermo made after the magician and Schatzgraeber.
His great gift, all hands to imitate, he had not a brand new (so
goes the Memoire away). He falsified or manufactured rather an old
document, which the property some cargoes came into conflict. He came
to study, go to prison, escaped and was ediktaliter cited. He traveled
through Calabria to Rome, where he married the daughter of a Gürtler.
From Rome he went back to Naples under the name of Marchese Pellegrini.
He ventured out again Palermo, was detected, recovered and prisons
were only going one way, the value is that I tell them inconvenient.

The
son of a Sicilian prince, and the first large cargo-seater, a man
the court held in the Neapolitan considerable bodies combined with
a strong Body and an unbridled temper all the arrogance of the rich
and the Great without education may believe.

Donna Lorenza knew him
to win, and for him built the disguised Marchese Pellegrini his safety.
The Prince revealed publicly, that he protects this couple arrived;
but in which he got anger, as Joseph Balsamo calls on the party which
by its Fraud suffered damage, was again taken to prison! He tried
various Means to free him, and since they do not want to succeed him,
he threatened in the hall of President, the lawyer of the opposing
party to abuse again fiercest when he did not immediately the arrest
of the Balsamo would abolish again. When the mutual solicitor refused
to he seized him, beat him, threw him to the ground, kicked him with
feet and was of little more Abuse to stop, as the president himself
to the noise and rushed out of peace bid. The House was still
     sitting, it had been sitting without a break for over forty hours,
     and I shall never forget the appearance the Chamber presented. The
     floor was littered with paper. A few dishevelled and weary Irishmen
     were on one side of the House, about a hundred infuriated
     Englishmen upon the other; some of them still in evening dress, and
     wearing what were once white shirts of the night before last. Mr.
     Parnell was upon his legs, with pale cheeks and drawn face, his
     hands clenched behind his back, facing without flinching a
     continuous roar of interruption. It was now about eight o'clock.
     Half of Mr. Parnell's followers were out of the Chamber snatching a
     few moments' sleep in chairs in the Library or Smoke Room. Here I felt now moved so
close to my family that I would have aufhuepfen and may they embrace. Welcome I thank that my naked
arrival was reported in her May you with your next good words of applause accompany!

Here is the list as the copies that I have to expect Goeschen under the friends are to be distributed,
because if I do not care very indifferent, as the audience these things are considered, 'I wish however,
by preparing some of my friends joy have to.

It takes just too much. When I think of my four last volumes as a whole, I would like be dizzy,
I have to attack them individually, so it will go.

If I would have not done better, after my first decision these things piecemeal in to send the
world and new items, which I share, I use fresh, with fresh to take courage and strength? Tact
I not better to write "Iphigenia at Delphi," as me with the grilling of the "Tasso" grappling?
And yet I have been into it too much out of my own, than that I should
give up fruitless.

I sat on the front hall to the fireplace and the warmth of a time well-nourished Fire gives
me new courage to start a new leaf, for it is nice to but even that one with his latest thoughts
so far in the distance range, even his closest can move from words to it. The weather is very
beautiful, the days take significantly to bloom, and Buchsbaeume laurels, the almond trees. What
surprised me this morning a wondrous sight I saw in the distance high stangenaehnliche trees, over and
over by the most beautiful purple clothed. On closer examination, it was the tree in our Hothouses
under the name of Jews tree known as the botanist Cercis siliquastrum. Its purple Butterfly flowers
he brings directly out of the tribe. Cut down last winter were the bars that I saw before me,
from whose bark the well-shaped and colored flowers broke out in their thousands. The Mass loves
penetrate like ants from the ground, crocus and Adonis appear less
frequently, but more graceful and ornamental.

What will give me not only the midday land for pleasure and knowledge from which new results emerge
for me!

It is with natural things like art, it is so much written about it, and everyone who sees
it, it can yet again in new combinations . Share

When I think of Naples, in fact even to Sicily, it falls both in the narrative as a in images
that in these havens of the world, while the volcanic hell Sun forced
open, and thousands of years the housing ends and genius sending startled
and deceptive power.

But I suggest to me the hope that like many great views from the sense to protect I left the
old capital of the world still use right.

For fourteen days I am from morning to night in motion, I have not
seen, I seek to.

The comparative merit for the second - and third time considered classified, and now to some
degree's. For while the Hauptgegenstaende come in their right place, so for many lesser space
between them and space. My loves clean and decide , and now only can my mind the larger and realest
of entering, relaxed . Contrary to lift

Here one finds the artist as well be envied, by the replica and imitation in every way those great
intentions more approaches, they understand better than the merely And contemplative thinker. But in
the end everyone must do what he can, so I stretch for all of my
mind to sail to the coasts around them.

The fireplace is right and this time durchgewaermt accumulated the most beautiful coal, which
at We rarely happens, because someone would not be easy and time of the fire a couple of hours
to pay attention, and so I will use this beautiful climate, a few observations save in my slate,
which are already half extinguished.

On the second day of February, we went into the Sistine Chapel to the function in which the Candles
are consecrated. I found myself equally uncomfortable and went with the friends soon out again.
Because I thought those were just the candles, which for three hundred years these magnificent
paintings Verdu, and that's just the incense, with the holy Impertinence
the only art clouded sun, not just from year to year muddy, and finally
makes even sunk in darkness.

Then we studied the free and came after a long walk to St. Onofrio,
where Tasso is buried in a corner.

At the monastery library is a bust.

The face is of wax, and I like to think it over his dead body was shaped. Not quite sharp and
spoiled here and there, but it suggests the whole more than any other of his Portraits of a
talented, delicate, refined, self-contained man

So much for this time. Now I want to contain the honest people's second part, Rome, to pull out what I
have not seen. Before I travel to Naples, the harvest at least niedergemaeht be, and trying to tie
in sheaves, they will also have good days.

17 February.

The weather is incredibly beautiful and unspeakably, the whole of February, except for four
days of rain a pure, bright sky, around noon, almost too warm. Now we investigate the free,
and if you issue so far is only with gods and heroes did, the landscape appears once return
to their rights, and one attaches to the environment that stimulates the most glorious day.
Sometimes I remember how the artist in the north and ruined castles Strohdaechern something to
gain, how to herumdrueckt to Bach and Bush and crumbled rock, to catch a picturesque effect, and
I'm completely with wonderful, more so Glue as those things after
so long habit a still, and now I have but since taken two weeks a
courage and went outside with small leaves through the depths and
have heights of the villas and me without a lot of little recollection
striking, truly southern Roman objects and designed and are now looking
with the help of the good luck to you light and to provide shade.

It is very peculiar that one can see clearly and know what is good and better, if one is to dedicate's
but, that's under withering at the hands, and we do not reach for the rights, but from what we
are accustomed to take.

Only through controlled exercise could you come forward, but where I should have time and
Collection Find! However, I feel for but by the passionate pursuit FORTNIGHTLY improved much
more.

The artists teach me happy, because I grasp quickly. But now is not the Condensed done the same; to
understand something quickly, anyway the property of the mind, but to do something right, this
includes the practice throughout life.

Yet should the lover so weak he also nachstrebt not be deterred. The few lines that I draw on paper
hastily, often, rarely true, I facilitate any notion of sensible things, for it rises even more
to the general, if looking at the belongings accuracy and sharpness.

Compare with the artist not only you must be, but moved to its own
kind; for nature has provided for their children, the least is not,
by the existence of the most excellent, prevented his being "a little
man is a man!"

And we want to leave it's because.

I have twice seen the sea until the Adriatic, then informed the Indian ella, just as it to visit. In
Naples, we want to be known. It puts everything at once up in me; why not earlier, why not cheaper!
How many thousands of things, some new and very from the front, I would have know!

17 Februar 1787th Faded away after the evening carnival folly.

I leave when I leave reluctantly Moritzen alone.

He is on track, but as for is going on, he looks for the same popular retreat. I have encouraged
him to Herder to write the letter is included, I wish you a response that something convenient and
a helping contained. It is a strangely good man, he would be much further if he from time to time
People would have found, capable and loving enough to enlighten him about his condition. Currently,
he can not tie blessed relationship, as when he allowed Herder, to
write sometimes.

He deals with a praiseworthy antiquarian companies the well deserves
to be promoted.

Herder friend is not easily an Muehe applied and good teaching have
barely put in a fruit revelators ground.

The large portrait, taken by me which leg is growing, if only for the big screen out. The artist
has to make a finished sculpture in a small model of sound leave, which was even draped elegantly
with a coat. Then he painted diligently, because It should certainly brought before our departure
to Naples has to a certain point be heard this time and to such a large canvas covered with paint
to even.

Goethe in the Campagna. Paintings of table leg

19 February.

The weather continues to be expressed over all nice and today was a day I with Pain under the
fool spent. By nightfall I recovered on the Villa Medicis; new moon is just over, and next to the delicate
crescent moon I could see the whole dark Disc almost with the naked
eye, through the perspective see quite clearly.

Hovers above the ground a fragrance of the day, known only from paintings
and drawings by Claude, the phenomenon in nature but not easily seen
so beautiful as here.

Now I get flowers from the earth, I know of yet, and new flowers of the trees, the almond bloom
and make a new airy appearance between the dark green oak trees, the sky is like a light blue
Taft, and illuminated by the sun. How will it be in Naples! We find most of it . Green My botanical
grilling affirm on all this, and I'm on the way nice new relationships to discover how nature,
such a monster, nothing looks, developed from the simple the most manifold.

Vesuvius throws of stones and ash, and at night looks Annealing the summit. Give us acting
nature a lava flow! Now I can not wait until these large objects I will own.

20, February, Ash Wednesday.

Now the madness to an end. The countless lights last night were a
great Spectacle.

The Carnival in Rome must have been seen, the desire to completely
get rid of ever to see again.

Write to them is nothing, in an oral presentation would like it possibly be entertaining. What
is it feels uncomfortable, that the inner Cheerfulness people do not have and they lack in money,
the little bit of pleasure, what they still may have to skip. The majors are economically and
hold back, the middle man unvermoegend, the people of lame.

In the last days was an incredible noise, but no Heart's delight. The sky, so very pure and
beautiful, looking as noble and innocent to these antics.

Since, however, but the reproduction can not leave here, so for the
pleasure of the children masks carnivals and costumes of Roman diveded
drawn, then painted with colors been, as you like for replacing a
missing chapter of the "Orbis pictus" the little ones.

21 February 1787

I use the moments between the packing to have a lot to catch up. Morning walk We Naples. I
look forward to the new, which is to be unspeakably beautiful, and I hope in that heavenly nature
to gain new freedom and pleasure, here in Rome serious to go back
to the study of art.

The packing is easy for me, I do it with a lighter heart than six months ago, I am detaching from everything
that was dear to me so and was worth. Yes, it is already half Year, and spent the four months
in Rome, I lost no time in which Although much wants hot, but not too much to say.

That "Iphigenia" arrived, I know, I might learn at the foot of Mount
Vesuvius that it has a well received have been bestowed upon.

With a table leg who has such a wonderful view of nature as art, to make this trip, is for me the greatest
importance, but we can not as a real German us free himself from intentions and prospects for
work.

The most beautiful paper is purchased, and we take ourselves, to draw on, although the size,
beauty and the splendor of the Belongings is our good will, most probably limited.

One I have won over me that I take nothing from my poetic work as Tasso alone, to him I have the
best hope. 'Knowing' I now what her "Iphigenia" says, so I could stand as a line, for it is a similar
work, the subject almost more limited than those in detail and will
be even more prepared, but I do not know what it can be, I have to
destroy the existing whole, which has remained too long, and neither
the people nor the plan, nor have the sound with my current View the
least affinity.

When tidying up some of your love letters I fall into the hand, and
as I meet when reading the allegation that I contradict myself in
my letters.

I can not remember though, because what I have written, I will send away at once, but it is my
own very likely for I am thrown back and forth to immense powers, and it is probably natural, I do
not always know where I stand.

It tells of a sailor, about the fall of a stormy night at sea, tried to steer home. His son,
nestled in the darkness to him, asked: "Father, what kind of a silly
little light there, I soon about us, now of us see?

"The father promised him an explanation of the next day, and found
as it is, that the flame of the lighthouse have been one of the wild
waves rocked up and down Eye sometimes down, sometimes up appeared.

I too Steer on a passionately moving seas of the harbor, and I believe the glow the lighthouse
would be only a sharp eye when it seems to me Change customer and the space so I recovered at last
on the shore.

On departure, one always falls each former vagina or the future last involuntarily to mind,
and I am dying, this time stronger than before, while the observation on that we make too much
Voranstalten to live, for so we return, table leg and I, so many glories, even our own well-equipped
museum his back. Since now three Junon stand side by side for comparison, and we leave as if
it were would be no.

Naples

Naples. Engraving by Vernet

Velletri, 22 February 1787

In good time we arrived here .-- Even before yesterday darkened the
weather, the beautiful days had brought us muddy, but there is some
air signs that it is again convenient for the good will, as it arrived
as well.

The clouds separated by degrees, Here and there appeared the blue sky and the sun finally lit
our path. We Albano came through after we had held before Genzano
at the entrance of a park, the Prince Chigi, the owner, holds a strange
way, keeps not, therefore, does not want anyone looking around in
it. Here is a true wilderness: trees and Shrubs, herbs and vines grow,
how they want to wither falls to putrefy. That's all right and all
the more better. The square in front of the entrance is beautiful
unspeakable. A high wall encloses the valley, look into a barred door
leaves, then rises up the hill, where it is located above the castle.
It would give the biggest picture when it a true artist unternaehme.

Now
I can not describe further and just say that when we in the height
of the mountains Sezza saw from the Pontine marshes, the sea and islands,
that at the moment a strong streak rain moved through the swamps to
the sea, light and shadow, alternating and moved, the swathes of mud
and even lively varied. Very nice had this purpose several Rauchsaeulen
illuminated by the sun, the rising from scattered, barely visible
huts.

Velletri is very pleasant on a volcanic hill, only to the north
with other related, given through three quarters of heaven, but the
most free sight.

A more heartrending alternative has never been imposed on any body of politicians, and John
Redmond, unlike his younger brother, was not of those to whom decision came by an instinctive
act of allegiance. His nature forced him to see both sides, but when he decided it was with
his whole nature. The issue was debated by the Irish party in Committee Room 15 of the House
of Commons, with the Press in attendance. In this encounter Redmond for the first time stepped
to the front. He had hitherto been outside the first flight of Irish parliamentarians. Now,
he was the first to state the case for maintaining Parnell's leadership, and throughout the
discussions he led on that side. He thought he recognized the young man in one of his friends
and to have jumped so quickly to him in the forest.

Barely twenty - ran thirty steps, he was aware of the Referendarius Pulcher, who under a large tree
and stopped with himmelwaerts eyes on the horizon that is said, "No! - No longer tolerate this
insult! - All hope of life is gone! - Any views directed only to
the grave - Farewell - Live - World - Hope - Beloved ". -

And it
tore the desperate Referendarius a pistol from his bosom and pressuring
it adheres to the forehead.

Balthasar crashed with lightning speed towards him, he threw the gun away from the hand and
cried: "Pulcher for God's sake, what you is what you do!"

The Referendarius could not come for several minutes to himself. He was half-pass out Lower down
on the grass; Balthasar had sat down and said to him words of comfort
as he only could, without knowing the cause of Pulcher despair.

A hundred times Balthasar had asked what happened to the Referendarius terrible because the
the black thoughts of suicide made active in it. Pulcher finally sighed deeply and began: "You
know, dear friend Balthasar, my difficult situation, you know how I put all my hope in the secret
place of the travel agents, which the minister of Foreign Affairs disclosed; you know with
what zeal with which I Fleiss prepared me for this. I submitted my elaborations, which, as
I said to my Joy learned to get the most applause of the minister. presented with what confidence I am
this morning to the oral test! - I found the room a small, ill-made Guy you'll probably know
under the name of the Lord cinnabar. The Legation, where the Testing was transferred to me
in a friendly and told me to the same place, the I wish you to receive, had also reported Mr. cinnabar,
he would examine both of us so. Then he whispered in my ear in his ear: 'You have nothing to fear
from your competitors, the best Referendarius, the work that brought the little tin are pathetic!
" The Testing started, no question of the Council, I left unanswered. Vermilion knew nothing, absolutely
nothing, instead of The answer to snoring and he squawks fainter ROYAL stuff that no one understood
was, even, as he struggled with the unruly legs, a couple of times from the high chair down,
so that I had to lift him up again. I trembled with delight the heart, the friendly glances, the
Council of the boy tossed, I thought was the most bitter irony. - The test was terminated. Who can
describe my shock, I felt as if a sudden flash me fathoms deep hineinschluege into the ground, when
the Council embraced the boy, said to him: 'Wonderful man! - Which Knowledge - which mind
- which ingenuity '! - Then to me: 'You have deceived me very much, Mr. Pulcher Referendarius - you
know nothing! And - take it amiss, the way you have encouraged for confirmation like, runs
against all custom, against all Decency! - They could not even get on the chair, you were so down,
and Mr. She had to raise cinnabar. People have to be diplomatic fine sober and thoughtful. - Goodbye,
Mr. Referendarius'! - I still did everything for a fantastic farce. I dared it, I went to the minister.
He let out tell me how I can under stand me, it to trouble even with my visit, after the way
I proved myself in the class - he knew it all! The post, to which I had urged, already awarded
to Mr cinnabar! - So me some infernal power has stolen all hope, and I will willingly a life
To sacrifice the fallen victim to the dark fate! Leave me! "-

"Never," said Balthasar, "only listen to me!"

He then told all he knew of cinnabar since its first appearance in front of goal of Kerepes; how
he fared with the little ones in Mosch Terpin home, he just now heard by Vincenzo Sbiocca.
"It is only too certain," he then said, "that all begin the fatal abortion at some mystery lies
at the foundation, and believe me, friend Pulcher, - is some infernal magic in the game, it all
depends on him with fixed Sense to oppose, the victory is certain, if only the courage found. -
So do not despair, not too rapid decision. Let us together the little guy going to get rid of witches!
-

"Witches guy," said the Referendarius enthusiastically, "yes witch guy, a very witch cursed guy is
the little man, that's for sure! - But Brother Balthazar, which is us because we are in a dream?
- Witchcraft - witchcraft - is it will not be over for a long time? Did they not Many years
ago, Fuerst Paphnutius the Great introduced the Enlightenment and everything nice Mischief, all incomprehensible
banished from the country, and still is like cursing Contraband have crept in? - Weather! we would
have the same view of the police and the toll-officiants! - But no, no - only the madness of the
people or, as I almost 'm afraid immense corruption is to blame for our misfortune. - The tin
is cursed be rich beyond measure. He was recently in front of the coin, and as the people showed
their fingers after him, shouting: 'Look at the pretty little dad! - Much of them is the bare
gold, inside there is minted '"

"Still," said Balthasar, quiet, "friend Referendarius, with the gold it will force the monster not,
there is something else behind it! - True, that Fuerst Paphnutius introduced the Enlightenment
to use and profit of his people, his descendants, but some wonderful, incomprehensible is back but
still remained. I mean, you have even the house for some pretty miraculous was withheld. For example,
are still growing from lumpichten Samenkoernern the highest, most glorious Trees, even the most
diverse fruits and cereals, which we fill our body. Allows you surely not even the colorful flowers,
the insects on their leaves and wings the bright color to wear even the allerverwunderlichsten graffiti,
of which No one knows whether it is oil, gouache or watercolor style, and no devil by writing
master can read the neat handwriting, let alone writing out! Hoho! Referendarius, I tell you,
it goes in my mind sometimes before bizarre! - I put away the whistle and stride about the room and
down, and a strange voice whispers that I was itself a miracle the magician in microcosm handle
me and drive me to all sorts of great painting! - But Referendarius, then I run away and look
into the nature and understand it all, what the flowers, the waters
speak to me and embraces me blessed heavenly joy! -

"You speak in
a fever," said Pulcher, but Balthasar, without looking at him, stretched
out Arms as detected by fervent desire for distant lands.

"Listen a moment," said Balthasar, "listen, but only o Referendarius what heavenly music in
the noise of the evening breeze sounds in the woods! - Do you hear well, as the source strength
raise their voice? as the bushes, the flowers come up with lovely voices "? -

The Referendarius held the ear to hear out the music that spoke of
Balthazar.

"In Indeed, "he then began," in fact, blow it sounds through the forest, the most graceful, most
glorious are, what I heard in my life and I deeply penetrate into the soul. But it is not the
night wind, not the bushes, the flowers are not there to sing the way Rather, it seemed to me
as if someone paints the deepest bell in the distance a harmonica. "

Pulcher was right. Really matched the full, always stronger and stronger swelling Chords that
reverberated ever closer, the sounds of a harmonica, but their size and strength had to be outrageous.
Now when the GUIDELINES friend, offered them a play is so enchanting, that it freezes in astonishment
- firmly rooted - stopped. In less Distance traveled a man slowly through the forest, almost dressed
Chinese, but he was wearing a far bulky beret with beautiful feathers on his head. The car
was like a open shell of sparkling crystal, which appeared two large wheels of equal mass.
As soon as she turned, rang the wonderful Harmonikatoene that the friends have made the distance
heard. Two snow-white unicorns with golden harness drew the wagon on the place of the Carter,
a silver pheasant sat, holding the golden lines in the bill. Behind as sat a large gold Kaefer,
the fluttering with the shimmering wings, a wonderful man zuzuwehen in the Shell cooling seemed.
And he passed with his friends, he nodded friendly to them. The moment came from the sparkling
button of the long pipe, which the man in the hand, wore a jet at Balthazar, so that he deeply
a burning spot in the chest and felt a dull Oh! started. -

The man looked at him and smiled and waved friendly than before.

And the magical Wagon in the dense shrubbery disappeared, nor in the soft echo of the Harmonikatoene,
fell Balthasar, quite beside himself with joy and delight, his friend's neck and cried, "Referendarius,
We're saved! - That's is the cinnabar tried spell breaks "! -

"I do not know," said Pulcher, "I do not know how I feel at this moment whether I wake up, if
I dream about, but this much is certain, that an unknown Wonnegefuehl me penetrates and comfort
and hope that recurs in my soul. "

It is not to deny any longer that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, at the Lord Privy cinnabar
accepted as a shipping clerk, a descendant of that Baron Praetextatus was by moonlight that the
family tree of the fairy Rosabelverde in Turnierbuechern and chronicles vainly sought. He told
how his ancestor Praetextatus of moonlight, was of the finest Education, the most pleasant
manners, who mistook me and I never use the over yours and you wrote his name with French letters,
as well as at all a legible hand and worked even sometimes even, especially when the weather was
bad. Barsanuphe Fuerst, a successor the great Paphnutz loved him tenderly, for he had played on
every question an answer in the leisure hours with the princes cones, saw itself beautifully
on the money-and Negoz sought in the Gavotte his peers.

It was found that the Baron had invited Praetextatus of moonlight over the princes for breakfast
at Leipzig Larks and a glass of Danzig Goldwasser. And he went down in moonlight House, he was
in the hall among several pleasant diplomatic gentlemen small cinnabar, the one on his cane propped
him with his little eyes glared, and, without further to to reverse it, put a roast lark in his mouth,
he just gemaust from the table. And the prince saw the little one, he smiled at him graciously
and said to the minister: "Moonlight! what have you for a small, handsome, intelligent man in
your home? - It is certainly the same person who manufactured the most stylized and beautifully
written reports I get some time from you? "" Yes, sir, "replied the moonlight. "I have the skill
applied to him as the wittiest, most skilled workers in my Bureau. He called cinnabar, and I
recommend the wonderful young man quite excellent Your grace and mercy, my dear prince! - It was not until
a few days he is with me "" And for that very reason, ". said a handsome young man who approached,
however, and thus does as Ew. to allow excellence to be noted despatched my little mate nothing.
The Reports that have been lucky, you, my illustrious prince, with pleasure to be noticed are
written by me. "" What do you want! "said the prince at him angrily. - Cinnabar had pushed
close to the princes and smacked his lips, devouring the lark with greed and appetite. - The
young man was really the source of those reports, but: "What you want," cried the prince, "you
still have not angeruehrt the spring - and that you consume close to me roasted larks, so that,
as I, to my great vexation must point to get my new Kasimirhose already a butter stain that you
in such a unfair smack, yes! - All this sufficiently proves your completely ineffective at
all diplomatic career! - Go home and fine do not get back to me see, unless you bring me a practically
useful spot for my ball Kasimirhose. - Perhaps I will again feel gracious "Then to cinnabar:"
These young men, as You, dear cinnabar, are an ornament to the State merit and awarded to
honorably be! - You are privy Spezialrat, my dear! "-" Thank you tens, "snarled cinnabar, as
he swallowed the last bite and wiped his mouth with both hands, "Thank least, I'll even make
the thing, as I ought."

"Brave self-confidence," the prince said in a loud voice, "brave self-confidence
evidence of the internal force that the worthy statesman innate need
"- And this saying the prince took a nightcap Goldwasser, darreichte
which the minister himself and his to him very well received. - The
new Council had to take place between the princes and ministers.

He ate and drank an incredible amount of larks confused Malaga and Goldwasser and snarled and
growled between his teeth, and fumbled, he hardly with the pointed nose at the table was rich, with
powerful hands and legs.

When finished the breakfast, called both the prince and the minister: "He is an English Man, this
Spezialrat Secret "-" You see, "Fabian said to his friend Balthasar, "You look so happy, your eyes
light up in special fire -.

You feel happy? - Oh, Balthazar, you may be dreaming a beautiful dream, but I have to up it awakens
friend is a must! "

"What is it, what happened?" asked Balthasar consternation.

"Yes," said Fabian, "yes - I must tell you Be calm, my friend -!

Remember perhaps no accident that meets in the world and yet painful to get over easily is, than
this! - Candida -

"To God," Balthasar cried in horror, "Candida - Candida what - she is gone - is she dead? "

"Quiet,"
continued Fabian, "calm, my friend - not dead Candida, but as good
as up for dead! - Know that the little tin Secret Spezialrat become
as good as Candida is promised with the beautiful, which, God knows
how to be very fond of him.

"

Fabian believed that Balthasar would break loose now in a wild, desperate
actions and curses.

Instead, he spoke with a quiet smile: "Is it nothing more than this, it is no accident that
could afflict me. "

"You love Candida anymore?" Fabian asked in astonishment.

"I love you," said Balthasar, "I love the child of heaven, the beautiful girl with all Fervor,
with all the enthusiasm that can only ignite a young man in the chest! And I know - oh, I know
it, that Candida loves me again, that only a wicked spell she knitted holds, but soon I release
the volume of this witchcraft, now I destroy the Fiend, who charmed
her arms.

"-

Balthasar now told his friend in detail about the wonderful man he most curious in the Wagon in the
woods encounters.

He concluded that, as well as from the floor button of the magical Being a beam in his breast
sparkled, the fixed idea dawned in him that cinnabar is nothing but a Hexenmaennlein, whose power
will destroy the man.

"But," said Fabian, when his friend finished, "but Balthasar, how can you on such a wonderful,
strange stuff falling? - The man you think is a magician is, no one unlike the Doctor Prosper
Alpanus who lives not far from the city at his country home. True It is the strangest rumors spread
by him, so he was almost Cagliostro would like to keep for a second, but because he himself
is to blame. He loves to wrap themselves in mystical darkness, the glow of a deeply with the
mysteries of nature trusted man to assume the unknown forces commands, and he has the most bizarre
Ideas. Thus, for example, his wagon be so strange that a man who by lively fiery imagination,
as you, my friend, may be well placed there, everything for keeping an appearance for some great
fairy tale. So listen! - Its Convertible has the form of a shell and is silver plated over
and over, is between the wheels is Organ attached, which track, and the car automatically plays.
What you for a Silver Pheasant were holding was certainly his little white-clad jockey, as you will
certainly be the Pages of ausgespreiteten umbrella for holding the Fluegeldecken a gold beetle.
lets his two white horses screwing it big horns, so it is only right fabulous to appearance.
Besides, it is true that the doctor Alpanus a beautiful Spanish cane wears a gorgeous sparkling crystal,
which sits on top of it as a button and the strange effect you told many fabulous or rather lying.
The beam of this crystal is intended to endure almost any eye. him, the doctor wrapped in a thin
veil to set up a firm look at it now, so will the image of the person, the one in the innermost
Thoughts wears appear outside as in a concave mirror. "" In fact, "was Balthasar the friends
to the word, "indeed tells oneself that? - What speaks well for further
of the Doctor Alpanus Prosper?

"

"Ah," said Fabian, "but only requires not want me by the fantastic
grimaces and antics much to talk.

You know, that there is as yet adventurous people who are healthy Reason to believe, contrary to
all the so-called miracle silly old wives' tale. "

"I will confess to you," said Balthasar, "that I am forced myself to the game to beat this adventurous
people without common sense. Silver-plated wood is not shining through a transparent crystal,
a barrel organ does not sound like a harmonica, a silver pheasant
is not a jockey and an umbrella no gold beetle.

Either the wonderful man who I have met, not the doctor Prosper Alpanus of which you speak, or the
doctor there really about the most extraordinary secrets. "

"Um," said Fabian, "in order to heal yourself completely from your
strange reverie, it is best to I almost lead you to the doctor Alpanus
Prosper.

Then you will feel it yourself that the Lord is a doctor just an ordinary doctor and no runs
with a walk unicorns Silver pheasants and golden beetle. "

"You speak," said Balthasar, by his eyes light auffunkelten, "you
know, my Friend, the deepest desire of my soul. - We want to make
us just the same on the way. "

Soon they stood before the closed
Gattertor of the park, in the middle of the country house of the Doctor
Alpanus was. "As we come into it?" said Fabian. In the lodgment
this idea of instalments had got in the minds of English statesmen I recognized the fact--and
after all in politics the first essential is to recognize facts--I recognized the fact that
in this Parliament we were not going to get a pure Home Rule Bill offered, and I consented,
and I was absolutely right in consenting, that whatever scheme short of that was put forward
would be considered calmly on its merits."

This meant that during the whole of the year 1906 and a part of 1907 the proposal of the new
Irish Bill was under discussion with the Irish leaders. The course of these deliberations was
undoubtedly a disappointment. Mr. Bryce was replaced by Mr. Birrell as Chief Secretary, but
the scheme still fell short of what Redmond had hoped to attain. Unfortunately, and it was
a characteristic error, his sanguine temperament had led him to encourage in Ireland hopes
as high as his own. The production of the Irish Council Bill and its reception in Ireland was
the first real shock to his power. What happened here in the small man-made, Nature
itself does often either by gradual alluvial or by the break the soil because of strong earthquakes.
It is likely that over the centuries, some Rivers in Sudan and in Australia, which now run dry
in the sand or run into lakes, to pave the way to the coast. So much is at least sure that
on two continents inner river systems is that one could consider * not yet developed * (54), and either
only in high water or resistant by bifurcation related to themselves.

The Rio Pao has dug such a deep and wide bed that when the rainy season in the Caño de grande
Cambury the country flooded northwest of Guigue, the water of this Caño and the lake of Valencia
in the Rio Pao even run back, so that this little river, supply instead of the lake water, rather
it draws off some. We see something similar in North America, where as the geographers on their
cards between the great Canadian lakes and the land of the Miamis specify an imaginary mountain
chain. During high waters are the rivers, the lakes, and those who run the Mississippi, to join
together and you goes in the canoe from the sources of the river St. Mary in the Wabash, as
in the Chicago the Illinois. These analogous cases seem to me the part of the hydrograph all
the attention to earn.

As the soil around the lake of Valencia is quite flat and level, then, as I was observed in
the Mexican lakes every day, when the water level by only a few Customs is a large, with fertile
mud and organic remains covered strip of land drained. In proportion as the sea retreats, the
production moves to the new bank before. Those effected by the nature of the agriculture of the
colonies very important Dehydration was in the last ten years, in which all of America was suffering
from severe drought, unusually strong. I advised the rich landlords in the country, instead of
the respective curves to refer to the lake shore and set up in the water itself granite columns, where
one year after could be observed year, the average water level.


There is no doubt that the element in him which urged him to welcome anything that could set
Irishmen working together on Irish problems made it almost impossible for him to throw aside
this chance. It was clear to me also that by long months of work in secret deliberation the
proposals originally set out had been greatly altered, so much so that in surveying the Bill
he was conscious mainly of the improvements in it; and that in this process his mind had lost
perception of how the measure was likely to affect Irish opinion--especially in view of his
own hopeful prognostications. At all events, the reception of Mr. Birrell's speech, even by
Redmond's own colleagues, marked a sudden change in the atmosphere. The laughing
loud and exuberant with delight. The funny little daughter - the sad boy - there was the mother
to think.

In the early morning the following day Helen came in Gebhard's bedroom. He awoke in their Admission.
Fresh and energetic was the mother before him like a long time, not more. "Gebhard get up,
it is time that we travel, we two together, "and when he with large, questioning Eyes looked
laughed, light, sat down beside him on the bed and said: "I have tonight thought: the Jüngferlein
is despicable, it does nothing at all from it when I go away, it rejoices at his aunt like me.
But my boy, I would like to himself have;!

I will at least go for a week with him, "As the young woman was stormy
hugged and kissed and thought of her husband.

An hour later they were on the trip.

Chapter Five.

Our two travelers had time alone in the compartment: Leo had not intruded, all Naturally, he had
found in it, in the same given space for his place to .

Take Gebhard was a long time at the window and looked out into the
winter landscape, he was so wonderfully happy to mute, as if it was
only now the mother again.

He would only like to know how she was at heart!

Once before he had turned to her, she looked thoughtful, but can
not find the words to a question.

Now he saw her again at.

"You want something?" she asked.

"No .-- Yes, yes. I just want to know if it does not freeze up?"

"No, why do you think it comes before you cold?"

.

'I do not the uncle was like, you could catch cold, but gel, it is pleasant warm? Today I like driving
so well, you too, Mother? "

She smiled kindly at her and pushed the bag aside, lay beside her.

"Set up to me, Gebhard. "

This was quickly followed by the call, and they moved close together.

"Gelt, the Jüngferlein is quite delighted with my aunt?" he said.

"Yes, of course, that we do not miss."

"I like just as well especially that I once had all to myself," said he, "we can speak of the
Father, if we want. But the aunt said I Do not be upset, so we prefer to talk about something else.
She has me Eßvorrat given in my gun, do we see the once "?

"Yes," said the mother, we look for the good things that will upset me, not quite certain. "
She laughed at her.

"You look like today, mother, as before, so nice." But he should not have said; for suddenly
a few tears came into her bright eyes. Then he quickly grabbed the rifle from, and because it
gobbled him an apple to the ground and as he stooped to pass after a number followed by nuts,
had to laugh and he laughed and they were the first happily together without his father.

Towards the end of the journey, while Gebhard already impatient for
the reunion with the Grandmother was delighted the young woman's heart
was heavy again.

She had on her well- Brother persuasion made to tell anything about it, that she had persuaded her
husband, to go with the Russians, and it could even be sure of her
mother-only event to see and hear no reproach.

But this very cautious evasion and concealment was not in their nature
and therefore it was worried before meeting with the mother.

Helen knew she was not expected, only Gebhard and his faithful companion
Leo was announced. imports as the passengers in the station hall,
they discovered the emptiness of the platform on.

He was suspended for the amount as soon a hospital train with a large number of wounded should
arrive.

A number of ambulance stretchers waiting for the next train, but among them a single large woman
standing in a long coat with warm fur clothes; under her black velvet hat looked out simple gray hair
and inquisitive eyes looked to the arriving train against. This was Dr. Stegemann, which is
at the entrance to the commander had requested to pick their own traveling grandson.

Gebhard saw the grandmother and immediately rushed up to her.

"My dear, big boy!" she cried, "I am glad that you came to me.

And your beautiful Leo is there too! Just come right away, we have
to leave the platform as quickly as possible.

"

"But the mother is also here, I'm just leapt ahead!"

"Mother, please come with it?"

Yes, she has just come to the two and saw clearly that the unexpected reunion with the serious
The grandmother's face lit up with joy.

"So you're coming," she said, extending his hand to the young woman, "then yes all well and good,
but we are together in this time! "

It also felt at that moment Helen. As if her husband would be closer,
so it was felt.

She had not even known that mother and son quite the same, clear, soulful had eyes and the same deep voice.
They walked together out to the train station. There was the stop the tram, take away the dogs
but was not allowed.

"Can jump after Leo?" asked the grandmother.

"He certainly can," said Gebhard, "but the father never liked to let
him go near the car."

"Then you go with him on foot? You remember the way you have made it two years ago."

"Not really," said Gebhard concern.

"We should probably take a cab and to let the dog to us," suggested Helena.

"By no means. A big boy with such a good dog looks for just his way. Remember to Gebhard. You
follow the tracks of the electric always up to the marketplace. Then ask thou know du street and
number? "

"Yes, John Bridge 5th"

The two women got in and Gebhard went with his faithful companion on foot. Helen wondered about
the grandmother who was the beloved grandson of the same unreasonable demands. Yes, it was again
the severity which they had in mind, not the good-natured, soft-hearted
tone, they of yours at home was normal.

Now she knew again why you were afraid, and it came over it an oppressive fear of the interview,
which could not fail.

Dr. Stegemann occupied the top floor of a house in the old town. The beautiful, comfortable Institutions
of modern times were missing this apartment, however, it was spacious, had lots of room, Chambers
and corridors. From the old-fashioned small windows we looked out over the roofs of the opposite
houses, over streets and roads out into the distance, where the gardens and fields City limited.
The last ray of sun still found its way into the high-lying flat.

Except for a maid had Dr. Stegemann two young domestic companions, two granddaughters, who visited
here in the larger town a private school.

From them she told Helen, after they leave the Electrical and neared the house, because both
did not like the Road from the talk that moved their hearts the most. As they arrived at the house
Floor after floor went up to Helen wondered about sixty women, who
no from the effort seemed to remember.

"Mother, how can you get!"

"This makes the habit."

"But you is it not inconvenient? You probably do 'get's easier."

"Why, I may be straying from the exercise. As long as I'm healthy, nothing hurt me the rise.
It would be nothing but comfort, if I do not wanted to. "

Ready to advance increased.

At the top they were greeted by the maid with the news that a foreign lady a long time to wait
and they would like to speak to her.

At the same time came the piece and lively two sisters, Gretchen
and Else, tall girl with blond braids and fresh, cheerful Faces.

They were surprised, instead of the expected small cousin to her
Aunt Helen To see who knew her only after the picture.

"Does it make her aunt pleasant children," said the Grandmother to them, "and you, Helen, let's
not scare you, if it happens uneasily with me; so be it in this year of the war. There are so many
girls who were abroad and now stellenlos are the contact us 'friends of the young girls'. The
more something is it be, even now. "

She left the room. Helen was surprised. She had still the life of the grandmother and complete thought,
now realized that this was still the middle of the life and work and soon saw that the two granddaughters
participated in all sorts of help and the spirit of war Grandmother were animated.

They turned now strongly of the young aunt, whose lovely appearance to them very much liked the
store helped her tame chatted, and soon came to speak, what they fulfilled. "May we show you our pantry?
We have a pile of children's clothes sewn to the displaced East Prussia and have knitted gloves
and socks for the soldiers, See you like it? "Helen was happy the eager girls in her room and
sat lead to the old-fashioned Pfeilerschränkchen in which all manner of work had piled up. In
the midst of this consideration was accompanied by his dog, Gebhard.

He had not likes separated from his mother, for he knew she had come only for his sake here,
also He had such a vague feeling that their dreaded being with his
grandmother.

He was followed at a gallop with his dog in the electric, fast way to the house had sought and was now
encouraged by the rapid rotation, with fresh, rosy cheeks into the room.

Else Grete and taken were the same for this little cousin and they had the dog attractive. They have
never had such a household had wanted him to acquaintance close,
but he departed from it when he sniffed.

It did not take long, however, then Leo stretched out comfortably in the midst of society.

"Now he's already home," said Gebhard satisfied, "he realizes that we are not with strangers
are, in a strange house, he never puts down saying "It pleased the cousin and. Gebhard was happy.
Where was he like and where it pleases Leo had to be but also his
dear mother feel at home.

After a short time came the grandmother.

She had given notice to the young girl, in England had been governess
in a wealthy family, one in a boy, was now offered her a place in
a simple family of four boys.

The most recent, it should itself Extend that it did not fit.

must "I have made her courage," said Dr. Stegemann, "in the war we be happy, if you may slip in
somewhere, and besides, I would now like to educate rather than ten
German an Englishman.

And why not leave the little boy? We must indeed be happy if It is quite a lot of German boys!
They will now try and tell me on Sunday how it works. But now comes to tea! "

She led the daughter of the long, dark passage.

Helene thought involuntarily to the brightly lit room in her brother's house.

"Everywhere you realize the war," said Ms. Stegemann. "The oil will be short with you."

"I do not know there was no mention of it."

"No? It is a great hardship for many people.

Some families will not mind going to her room not illuminate. For such, we always save some
of the petroleum that comes to us. Why should we not also fall a little in the dark? Our soldiers
must be on all otherwise difficult trails in the darkness find their
way.

"

Gebhard high listened to these and similar statements by the grandmother. While the simple Dinner,
he told the nurses what was warlike and what not, what the family the benefit of the country and
failed as it was studiously, to be nourished by what abundant to left and is in danger of
spoiling. Now, Else Grete and saw him again it all was and that he was burning zeal for all profit,
they asked if he would join in, if they went the next Sunday with the Red Cross rifle through
the streets to cards and flowers offer the benefit of the wounded. He had seen this sometimes,
but never thought that one also could use him in some way for such
a patriotic activity.

Proud he was happy about these new prospects. "Grandmother," said Else, "which is fine! With
Gebhard the rifle, say the flowers and we all who meet us: 'Here, our cousin, is himself an exile,
a refugee from East Prussia! " As everyone we are twice as happy! "

"And we take the dog too," suggested Grete, "he looks like standard police with him Can we
dare to all corners of the city! "

The three related children joined after a short acquaintance, and were happy together. Helen was
amazed at how quickly Gebhard felt at home. On well-stocked table of their siblings they had
never seen him so pleased, as here, the good life he had less pleases, felt was the simple relationships,
which he was accustomed to at home, and as domestic air he patriotism, which was also the
Forsthaus been the ruling spirit.

CHAPTER VI.

The tea was over, finally the moment had come too, feared
the Helena is had the discussion about what worked in the silent heart
of the two women more than all the things that she had talked with
the children.

"I would now like to be undisturbed for an hour with Aunt Helen," said Dr. Stegemann to the sisters.
"Who comes around and asks me to wait or come back later. Gebhard can stay with you, come on,
Helen, we go to your room. "

Helen Gebhard but involuntarily after hand and held it. The grandmother saw the almost timid movement
of the young woman.

"You want to take Gebhard? she asked in surprise.

"Oh yes, please. We have all gone through together."

"So come along, Gebhard. I'll show you right at your place to sleep." At the door waiting for the
dog, He joined his little master. Dr. Stegemann went ahead, led their guests to at the end
of a long hallway. "Here's the guest room which is addressed to you, Helene; we did not know
that you come from. And over here is your room, Gebhard, look. "

They entered a large, bright room. A simple camp bed was in it. "As a real soldiers, "said
the grandmother," but added that it was a pillow and a feather bed. The soldiers did not get the
yes, but you're still not, but want only a to be. "

"They sleep without a duvet, the soldiers?" Gebhard said thoughtfully, "it will I's trying to
do without. "

"Will you? That's right! You know, some springs are so soft and warm, the less a boy wants to
know about it, the better. "

"So away with it!" cried the little man, 'grandmother, where? "

He grabbed the quilt. But Helen put her hand on it. "Oh, please, mother," she said, "It's too cold
for the child, it is not used to it."

"So we let the bed here.

You can hold it at night so as you will. And behold, I have made room for your clothes. "She
closed a large, old-fashioned wardrobe on. "Come here, you can hang your clothes."

"I will help him to give them," said Helene. She had every excuse desired, the Debate to move
beyond. While she was now on the open cabinet, raised , Leo, who had already laid next to Gebhard's
bed, followed her, was anxious, pushed his nose into the closet and
began to whine.

They noticed all the strange demeanor. "What is there in the back of the cupboard, grandmother,"
said Gebhard. You reach in and grab. "There are . Just clothes "and she fetched from the hooks,
which hung there, a raincoat, a few summer dresses; more and more excited the dog followed her
movements and now that they re a piece of clothing pulled out a Mr. Juppe, now the animal jumped
up and put into his head. "Ah! that is one Juppe from your father, is it possible that he
recognizes?

"But, of course, grandmother, just see how he sniffs as he pleased and it pulls!" A jerk - and
the dog had pulled the Juppe on the floor.

He lay down beside it, stretched the front paws full-length rummaged about, with his head in the
comfort of clothing and took possession of it so firmly that it is
not advisable, it seemed to take away.

Gebhard threw In addition to his dog on the floor, and stroked him and talked to him, "Where
is the Lord, where is your good lord?

Leo, do you think of the Lord? "The animal wagged.

Touched by the loyalty of the dog turned away Helene, was overwhelmed
by longing and pain on the cot down and wept bitterly.

Dr. Stegemann sat next to The young woman shook with sobs and spoke to her in a soft, motherly
tone to which Helen had never heard of her. Gradually waned as her fear and overcome it to
the engine, the mother of her husband to confide all suffering.

She gathered her strength together. "Mother," she said, "it's all much, much more terrible than
you know!"

"How so? Do you know more than what you wrote me?" Have you news of Rudolf? Poor Message? "

"No, no, not a word I heard from him since that day, but it was different
than you think. I can do it so hard to bring about the lips! "

Dr.
Stegemann sat up at attention and the soft sound of her voice was
no longer in as they prepared for the worst communications, about
the daughter said, "speech at last Helene. We must not be cowardly
in this hard time. I can hear everything, even the most cruel. And
you have every truth can speak. Be brave but also what helps the wine?
"

With these words, Gebhard, located next to the dog, stepped quickly
to Helen's page and stroked her hand. "Grandmother," he cried, "the
mother can not be as brave as do you think the father has told me
she is not like hard wood carved as we Stegemann. One must always
treat them very gently, "As the young woman's arm wrapped around her
defender and said to him: "The grandmother has yet right and I will,
too, that she learns everything. Gebhard, you tell it, you were here
and you do not always cry, as I do! "

"Yes," said Gebhard, "the grandmother
should know that no one else in the world!"

The little man pulled
himself together, he stood at attention there, and began: "grandmother,
so that's it: First, a German officer came up with five soldiers and
discussed something in secret with the father. Meanwhile, the soldiers
were cooking on our stove and we helped them. Then said We had the
father to accompany them, but no one would know where to go. They
moved in Night away together. The next day the father came back alone
and said we must quickly To escape the Russians could come soon. We
began at once, our things on the car to load in the yard, but into
the midst came a whole troop of Russians with an officer. They went
up the stairs and I after them. The living room was the father but
the mother with the Jüngferlein was not there. The Russian officer
asked where the German patrol went was that tonight was turned around
in the forest and the house was accompanying his father. I know not
exactly what his father said at first, but when the officer asked
him to with him go and run it the same way as his father said, "No,
I'm a good German and turning into a traitor "But the officer told
him. he could not do anything against so many and he has promised
him he should come home immediately, and all of us nothing would happen,
but if he does not show the way, we would all die. The father has
not given and it was terrible, become angry because the officer ,
and because I also called the father to give anything away, I have
the soldiers very angry grabbed and held firmly by the arm up there,
where does it hurt so much, and I mean loud Zorn just always cried,
"Father, do not do it, but then -" faltered Gebhard. He saw his mother
at. "Shall I not say anything, mother, everything?"

"Everything,
Gebhard!"

"Then the mother has been locked the bedroom door and called
from a distance and asked to the father will not let happen to us.
The father has looked closely at the mother and then he can not say
no. He went with them and promised them . Lead They are then ridden
away and we thought the father would come again in the evening, the
Officer has promised him on parole. The word must honor but also an
officer hold in the war, not a grandmother? "

He got no answer. The
grandmother, who listened quietly with moderate pain report had looked
into the distance as if her eyes sought the son she had lost. Helene
grabbed her hands and asked softly. "Mother, forgive me and all I
do not despise me been white, you'd be heroically and I was a coward,
was in agony, he has not can view and for my sake, he has become a
traitor. I'm to blame for this now Guilt on his conscience is. That's
why I've not been able to write to you. I know how you must despise
me that I have brought thy noble son to do so. "

"You have not brought
him to Helen, you're wrong you. Nothing in the world it would have
to can bring. I know him. He did not do that! "

Violently excited,
they stood up. Her eyes fell on Gebhard. "Even as a child would have
at your age he's not done as much less as a man! You have the thought
of your father? "

"I heard it, grandmother, that he said 'Yes', and
saw it myself, that he gone with the Russians! "

"Yes. He hath saved
his life and taken away from the gang Forsthof. A stratagem this was
yes, he has ridden with them, but where? To where the German patrol
not was! Gebhard, do you know your father so little? "

The boy is
not lowered his eyes before the severe expression of the grandmother,
and a happy Lights flew over his face. "So certainly you know that,
grandmother? Can not even otherwise be possible? "

"Gebhard, someone
will succeed, your Leo, this loyal animal against you to rush? If
it lures him, threatening him? Ashamed to think that anything in the
world your father would have been able to betray the Germans on their
enemies! "

Helene threw a timid, "My brother said, who has come into
the hands of the Russians, which is worn down, if he were ever so
brave! "

"Your brother can say he has Rudolf hardly knew, but you?" This speech attracted much attention, and the memory of it was present to many a fortnight
later when Mr. Asquith was replying to Mr. Balfour at the opening of the debate on the Address.
The Prime Minister dwelt strongly on the administrative necessity for regularizing the financial
position disturbed by the Upper House's unconstitutional action. He indicated also the need
for reform in the composition of that House. But, above all, he disclaimed as improper and
impossible any attempt to secure in advance a pledge for the contingent exercise of the Royal
prerogative.

"I have received no such guarantee and I have asked for no such guarantee," he said.

The change was marked indeed from the moment when he uttered in the Albert Hall his sentence
against assuming office or holding office without the necessary safeguards--an assurance at
which the whole vast assembly rose to their feet and cheered. Every word in his speech on the
Address added to the depression of his followers and the elation of the Opposition. One
finds there all climates such as in floors above the other, and this new Culturzweig would
flourish just as good as in the southern hemisphere, where in Brazil under a government The intimate
size of the industry and the religious toleration shall include in its protection, the tea,
the Chinese and Fo's beliefs are especially immigrated. Still, there are not one hundred years
ago, since in Surinam and the Antilles, the first coffee trees were planted, and has already
the yield of the American harvest a value of 15 million piastres the quintal of coffee expect
only 14 piastres.

On 8 February at sunrise we started to go over the Higuerote, a high Mountain range between the two
Längenthälern of Caracas and Aragua. After we read in Ajuntas, where small rivers join the San Pedro
and Macarao, for Guayre, walked on water were, it went to a steep slope up to the high level
of Buonavista where a few individual Houses. Here we see the north-east to the town of Caracas,
to the south going to the village Teques. The area is wild and wooded. The plants of the valley
of Caracas were gradually failed to. We were in 835 fathoms above sea level, almost as high
as Popayan, but the average temperature is hardly higher than 17 - 18 ° [13 ° from 0.6 to 14 °,
4 Reaumur]. The road is very busy over these mountains, every moment we met long lines of mules
and oxen, which is the great road from the capital to Victoria and in the valleys of Aragua.
The road is carved into a talkigten decomposed gneiss. A mixed with mica sheets Thon three feet high
covered the rock. In winter we suffer from the dust and in the rainy season the ground is a
quagmire. Downward from the level of Buonavista, about fifty toises against Southeast, you
come to a strong source in the gneiss, which forms several cases that the most abundant Surrounding
vegetation. The path down to the source is so steep that one of the tops of the tree fern, the
stem is 25 feet high, can touch by hand. The rocks around are Jungermannia and clothed Hypnum mosses
from the family. The stream shoots out in the shadow of heliconias and exposes the roots of
the Plumeria, the Cupey, the Brownea and Ficus gigantea. This humid, haunted by snakes place
granted to the botanist the most yield. The Brownea, by the natives Rosa del Monte or Palo de Cruz
referred to, often four to five hundred purple-red flowers in a single ostrich. Each flower has
almost always 11 stamens, and the magnificent plant, its trunk 50-60 feet high growth is rare,
because its wood is Coal is much sought. The ground cover pineapple, Hemimeris, Polygala and Melastomen.
A climbing species of grass (46) floats expressed in light threads between trees whose Hierseyn,
how cool the climate in these mountains. Such are the Aralia capitata, the Vismia caparosa the
Clethra fagifolia. In the midst of this, the beautiful region of the tree fern region (de los helechos)
plants peculiar rise in the clearings here and there, palm trees and Groups Guarumo * * or
Cecropia with silver colored leaves, the thin stem at the top is black, as if burnt by the
oxygen of the air. It is remarkable that such a beautiful tree the habit of the palms and the
Theophrasta usually has only eight to ten petals. The ants who live in the root of Guarumo and
destroy tissue in the interior, seem the growth inhibit the tree. We had botanisirt in this cool
mountains of Higuerote ever in December, when we accompanied the Captain general Guevara on the
trip that he and the Intendant of the province in the Valles de Aragua * * made. At that time,
Bonpland discovered in the thick of Forest a few strains of * * Aguatire whose famous for its
beautiful color wood once can become an article of export to Europe. It is described by Mayer and
Brede Willdenow Sickingia Erythroxylon.

From the forested mountains Higuerote get there down the south-west
to the small village of San Pedro (Height 584 toises), which lies
in a basin where collide several small valleys, and nearly 300 toises
lower than the level of Buonavista.

They built here next to each other bananas, Potatoes and coffee. The village is very small
and not yet the church expanded. We met in a tavern (pulpería) more in tobacco lease Hispano-employed
Europeans. Their Mood was very different from ours. tired from the march, they broke into complaints
and curses of unhappy over the country (estas tierras infelice), in which they live should. We
could, however, the wild beauty of the area, the fertility of the soil, the pleasant Climate
is not enough praise.

The valley of San Pedro with the river of that name separates two large mountain masses of the Higuerote
and read by Cocuyzas.

It was now up again towards the west of the small Courts and read Lagunetas Garavatos. It is
this only a few houses that serve as hostels; the mule drivers will find their favorite beverage,
* * Guarapo, fermented sugar cane juice. Especially the Indians who move back and forth on this
road are revealed to drink a lot. If there is a strange Garavatos designed mica schist rock,
a ridge or a steep Wall that reads, above a tower. At the top of the mountain las Cocuyzas we opened
the Barometer and found that we were here at the same level as on Buonaviste, only 10 toises
higher.

The prospect of reading Lagunetas is very far, but rather monotonous. This mountainous, undeveloped
Land between the sources of Guayre and Tuy is about 25 square miles in size. There are is his
only miserable village, los Teques, southeast of San Pedro. The ground is furrowed as of numerous small
valleys, and the smallest, open run alongside each other under right angles in the size. The
peaks are as monotonous as the ravines; nowhere a pyramidal formation or an indentation, nowhere
a steep slope. After I believe this is due almost entirely flat, wave-shaped relief is not of
this land both the nature of the Gebirgsart ago, about the disintegration of the gneiss, as rather
from the fact that the water long it stood and expressed their currents effects have. The
limestone mountains of Cumana, north of Turimiquiri, show the same formation.

From reading Lagunetas it went down in the valley of the Tuy. This western slope of the mountain
group los Teques Cocuyzas is read, and he has two plants with Agaveblättern, with * Maguey
de Cocuyza * and * covered * Cocuy de Maguey. The latter belongs to the genus Yucca (our Yucca
acaulis) from the fermented, with sugars and juice is distilled spirits, too I've seen eat the
young leaves. be obtained from the fibers of the mature leaves uncommonly fixed ropes manufactured.
(47) If you have the mountains and away Higuerote Teques behind you, so enter is a richly cultivated
country, covered with hamlets and villages, which are among those who European cities were
called. From east to west, a distance of 12 miles, you can get by Victoria, San Matheo, Turmero,
and Maracay, which together have more than 28,000 inhabitants. The levels Tuy than on the eastern
slopes of the valleys of Aragua to consider which of Guigue, on the shore of the lake of Valencia,
to extend to the foot of the mountains las Cocuyzas. By barometric I found the measurement Tuythal the
court Manterola 295 toises and the level of the lake 222 toises above the sea. The Tuy, which rises
in the mountains las Cocuyzas running start against West, then turns to south and east along
the high savannahs of Ocumare, takes the waters of the Valley of Caracas on falls and the winds
of Cap Codera into the sea.

We used a long time at a moderate temperature, and so are the planes arrived at Tuy very hot
before, and yet the thermometer was at day clock in the morning between eleven and five clock
Evening only to 23 - 24 °. The nights were deliciously cool, as the air temperature to 17 °, 5
' [14 ° Reaumur] decreased. The more decreased the heat, the greater seemed the perfumes of
flowers to fill the air. From all out, we realized the delicious smell of the Lirio hermoso a
new kind of Pancratium their flower 8-9 inches long and is growing on the banks of the Tuy. We
spent two very pleasant days on the plantation Don Jose de Manterola, in the Youth was a member
of the Spanish embassy in Russia was. As a pupil and favorite Xavedras, one of the most intelligent
director of Caracas, he wanted to, when the famous Statesman had entered the ministry, to embark
for Europe. The governor of the province Manterolas feared influence and had him arrested in the port,
and arrived when the order of court, of the arbitrary arrest lifted, the minister was no longer
in favor. It keeps difficult to 1,500 miles from the coast of South America, arriving in time
to recover from the power of a high-ranking man to benefit.

The courtyard where we lived, is a beautiful sugar plantation. The ground is level as the base a dry
lake bed. The Tuy winds through reasons that bananas and a small wood of Hura crepitans, Erythrina
corallo dendron and fig trees with Nymphäenblättern are covered. The bed is made of quartz
pebbles, and I do not know where to pleasant bathed in Tuy as: the crystallhelle water reserves even
during the day, the temperature of 18 °, 6 This is very cool for this climate and a sea of ​​300
fathoms, but springs from the river in the neighboring mountains. The apartment of the owner is on a
15-20 toises high Hills and all around are the huts of the Negroes. The married women make their
own for their maintenance. As everywhere in the valleys of Aragua has one of them a small plot
of land they cultivate. Use to the only free days in the week, Saturday and Sunday. They keep
Chicken, sometimes even a pig. The Lord praises how well they have it, as in the northern Europe,
the gracious gentlemen boast the wealth of the serfs. On the day we arrived did we bring three
sprung negro, recently purchased slaves. I was afraid tools be one of the whipping scenes to have
that one anywhere, where there is slavery, rural life bitter, but
fortunately the blacks were treated humanely.

On this plantation, as elsewhere in the province of Venezuela, a distinction from afar the
three types of sugar cane, which are constructed, the Creole tube Otaheite and the Batavian.
The former type has a darker leaf, a thin stalk and the nodes are closer to them and it is
this the cane, the first from India to Sicily, was introduced to the Canaries and the Antilles.
The second type is characterized by a lighter green from, and the stem is higher, thicker, more
succulent, and the whole plant betrays luxuriant growth. They are due to travel Bougainville, Cook
and Bligh. Bougainville brought them to Cayenne, where they to Martinique, and from 1792 to another
on the West Indies came. The Otaheite cane, the * * To the islanders, is one of the most important
enrichments which the agriculture in the colonies for a century traveling naturalists owes. Not
only is there the same area a third of Vezou * more * than the Creole Sugar cane; be thicker stems
and its firm wood fiber supply also much more fuel. The latter is of great value in the West
Indies, as the planters there because of the grubbing Forests for a long time have to heat the
boilers with extruded pipe. Without this new plant, without the progress of agriculture on the
mainland of Spanish America and the introduction Java and the Indian sugar would have on the
St. Domingo revolution and the destruction of there large sugar plantations a far more significant
effect on the prices of Colonial produce in Europe expressed. To Caracas, the Otaheite pipe came
from the island of Trinidad, from Caracas to Cucuta and San Gil in the kingdom of New Grenada. Currently,
after twenty-five years Cultivation is gone, the anxiety that you entertained the beginning,
the transplanted to America Tube would gradually degenerate and are as thin as the Creole.
If there is a category , so it's a very constant. The third species, the purple sugar cane,
Caña de batavia or de Guinea called, is intended to Java at home, where they found mainly in the
districts Japara Pasuruan and builds. It has purple-colored, broad leaves, in the province
of Caracas it is used preferably for Rumbrennen. Between the Tablones * * or planted with sugarcane Land
running from a huge huge grass hedges, the Latta * * or Gynerium with two-line profile. It
was in Tuy from further developing a weir, through which a Wässerungskanal should be fed. The owner
of the company had 7000 piastres construction costs and 4000 issued for the processes with
its neighbors. While the trustee over fought a channel that was only half finished, Manterola
began to doubt whether the Thing ever see executable. I surveyed the terrain by means of a test-tube
on a artificial horizon, and found that the dam was built to eight feet deep. How much money
have I see thrown in the Spanish colonies of buildings that have been created for false measurements
were!

The Tuythal has "his" gold mine, like almost every inhabited by Europeans, in the primitive rocks
lying Place in America. Was assured, in 1780 we have collected here from his gold panning gold grains
To see and the people have now invested in the Gold Canyon laundry. The administrator a neighboring
plantation had followed these traces, and behold, they found in his papers a doublet with gold
buttons, and after the People's logic of this gold was only one vein Come where the exploration
was buried by a sinkhole. So I determined also explained to the mere appearance of the soil without
a deep tunnel in the direction of the Ganges, I can not know whether one was built here sey
- to no avail, I had the pleas give my landlord. For twenty years, the doublet of the administrator
in the district been discussed on a daily basis. The gold digging from the bosom of the earth,
in the Eyes of the people a very different appeal than the gold that the diligence of the
farmer on a fertile harvests with a mild climate blessed soil.

North-west of the Hacienda del Tuy, in the northern part of the coastal mountain range is located,
a deep ravine, Quebrada Seca named because the brook, which it owes its origin, seeps into the crevices
before he reached the end of the gorge. This whole mountain country is densely covered, here,
as elsewhere, where the highs reach into the clouds and the region Wasserdünste have to train her from
the sea free access, we found the beautiful fresh green, had we done in the mountains of Buena
Vista and Lagunetas so well. In contrast, the levels throw, as noted above, the trees in winter
their leaves in part from, and once you comes down into the valley of Tuy, is an almost wintry
appearance to the landscape. The air is so dry that the hygrometer Delucsche day and night to
36 - is 40 °. Far from the river you can see little here and there or a tree Hura like the
pepper plant defoliated Bushes shade. This phenomenon is probably a consequence of the dryness of the
air in February reaches its maximum, it will not touch, like the colonists believe therefore
that "the seasons, as they are in Spain, to act in the torrid zone across. "Only on a hemisphere in the
other plants remain displaced in terms of their vital functions, which leaves and bound to a distant
clime Blüthenentwicklung element and, true to the familiar Life course, far to the periodic change
of weather of it. In the province of Venezuela catch the bare trees is almost a month before the rainy
season to drive for fresh foliage. Probably by this time the electrical balance in the atmosphere
has lifted and the same is becoming wet when it is still cloudy, too. The sky is blue paler and
high in the air to collect light, evenly spread fumes. In This season is here actually the awakening
of nature, it is a spring that, after the language used in the Spanish colonies, (48) proclaimed
the beginning of winter and the summer heat follows.

In the Quebrada Seca was built earlier Indigo, but because of the densely vegetated land not so can give
off much heat as the lowlands received or the bottom of the valley
of the Tuy and Radiation fetch up, one down now instead of that coffee.

The further one in the canyon comes up, the more humid it is. When * Hato *, at the northern
end of the Quebrada, we came to a stream that falls down on the falling Gneißschichten, they
worked here on a water pipe that the water should result in the plane, without irrigation is
In this region, no progress in the agriculture possible. An enormously fat Tree (Hura crepitans)
on the hillside above the house of Hato, we noticed. Since he, when the Ground in the least
important, would fall and the house that was smashed in his shadow, must, so he had been burned
down on the trunk and enjoy it so much that it is between enormous Fig trees came to rest
and could not roll down into the ravine. We measured the filled Tree: the tree-tops were burned,
and yet still measured 154 feet of the master, he had at the root 8 feet in diameter and at the
head of 4 feet 2 inches.

Our leaders were far less than us anxious, how thick are the trees, driving us forward, the "gold
mine" to. We turned to West, and were finally in the Quebrada del
Oro.

There was now on the slope of a hill to hardly notice the trail of a quartz vein. By the rain had
slipped down the soil, the terrain was changed by all, and from a Investigation could be-ing the question.
Already a huge trees grew on the spot where the gold panning had worked twenty years ago.


Apart from the new unsettlement of public opinion which it created both in Great Britain and
in Ireland, the Insurance Act added to our difficulties on the Home Rule question. It was clear
already that the question of finance lay like a rock ahead. Up to 1908 the proceeds of Irish
revenue had always given a margin over the cost of all Irish services, though that margin had
dwindled almost to vanishing-point. Old Age Pensions completely turned the beam and left us
in the position of costing more than we contributed. Now the outlay on Insurance added half
a million a year to the balance against us.

Still, difficulties and perplexities were not limited to one side. The Tory party were much
divided since the crisis on the Parliament Act. During a comic tale of the intermediate Pharmacist
who gives more to the certificate and their epic serenity for the present Improper torque of the
talkative man does not notice, Hermann inwardly in the manner of lovers a powerful, yet at the same
time timid and evasive decision taken. The Friends should not drive him home and bring the parents
the message he wants to be alone, Dorothea question itself and the surrounding footpath on the pear tree
by either happy with you descend to your home or sneak them back without lonely. All the words
that he here speaks, are those of a loving, between misery and happiness back and tossed heart
the same truth, depth and tenderness to bear, as in Alexis and Dora. We float with the young
man in the anticipation of sharing his sorrow, smile at the cute jokes at the departure of friends,
but moved with compassion, we see the dust rise up to Herman, disperse and are not as he thought.

The
closer we move with the opening of the seventh song, the conclusion will be the richer spent
the poetic medium, the more intimate feeling, anxious, appearance,
always soulful and increase their delicate pale colors and redden
imperceptibly.

The inner Heart and the external nature, the mood of the soul and the surrounding landscape,
the train of Love and softly playing accident prone all together, meaning and significance of
the image to increase and collects all the magic of imagination to the abundance of delicate emotion,
from the the bottom of a loud human relationship swells. The song begins with an equally true
as magnificent parable. As the hikers in the evening, the sinking sun again edited and then dazzled
the eye sees her floating image, where he turns the eyes also Such was Hermann Dorothea shape
before his eyes move through the field. It was the dream love, in which the mistress of the blinded
eye is everywhere, but the dream blends with reality: Hermann awakened and is astonished and amazed
again, for Dorothea is real, it is not a dummy image, it is itself with jugs in hand, she
comes to the well paced, to draw water. The accident led them right now to the source, in Hermann
concerns of love lonely dreaming.

Coincidence! He might be with the wonderful name of our Humboldt poem. Among the requirements
an epic poem set the pedantic theory earlier period, a so-called Machine of the miraculous: it
should occur in the epic gods and demons, and with fantastic Pry
into the doings of human intervention.

Therefore, from the poet a world of gods invented, it was set allegorical personifications of abstract
ideas in motion and the course of action rather than their own inner dialectic driving them
away, but presented as the work of supernatural figures.
 

Balthazar's wedding was celebrated at the country home. He - the friends Fabian - Pulcher - all
astonished about Candida's high beauty, about the magical charm that in her dress, was in her
whole being. - It was really a magic, flowing around it, because the fairy Rosabelverde that,
forgetting all the resentment, the wedding as Stiftsfraeulein Rose Schoen attended, she had
dressed and adorned with the most beautiful, most beautiful roses. 

"What a loss," began after a moment of silent misery of the prince, "what an irreparable Loss for the state!
- Where to find a man of the Order of the Tigers with gruengefleckten twenty buttons with the
dignity wears when my tin! - Physician, and I could the man to die! - Tell me - how did it
happen, how did this happen - what was Identify - what died the excellent "? -

The physician gazed at the little one very carefully, felt certain passages former pulses dash
along the main, cleared his throat and began: "My lord, if I am Be content to float on the surface,
I could say that the minister was at the entirely Absence of breath died, this lack of breath was caused
by the impossibility to draw breath, and again this impossibility only caused by the element,
by the humor, crashed in the minister. I could say that the Minister was in this way a humorous
death died, but far from me was this shallowness, far from me explain the addiction, all from
vile physical principles to do what only the area of the purely psychological reason finds
its natural irrevocable. - My dear Fuerst, was released the man's word! - The first seeds of
death, the Minister took place in the Order of the gruengefleckten Tiger with twenty buttons!
-

"What," cried the prince, as he glared at the physician with zorngluehenden eyes, "how! - what
do you speak? - The Order of the Tiger with twenty buttons gruengefleckten, the Blessed for the
good of the state with so much grace, with so much dignity wore? - The cause of his death? - Prove
to me that, or - Chamberlain, what do you say?

"He must prove he has to prove, or" - called the seven pale Chamberlain,
and the Physician continued:

"My good gracious prince, I'll prove
it, so no or - hung the thing! together as follows: The heavy badge
with ribbon, but especially the Buttons on the back had a negative
effect on the ganglia of the spine.

At the same time caused Star of the Order a print to that knotty fadichte thing between the
tripod and the upper Gekroespulsader, which we call the solar plexus, and the labyrinth in
the tissue of the Plexus predominates. This organ is dominant in the most manifold relations the
cerebral system, and of course was the attack on the ganglion and the enemies. But is not the free
line of the cerebral condition of consciousness, the personality, as an expression of the most
perfect union of the whole into a focal point? Is not the life process the activity in both spheres,
in the ganglia and cerebral system? - Well! enough of that Attack disturbs the function of the
psychic organism. Only gloomy ideas came from unidentified Sacrifices for the state through the painful wearing
that Order, etc, are insidious was the state, to utter disharmony to the ganglia and cerebral system at
last to utter Cessation of consciousness and mere abandonment of the personality brought about.
This State we call death, but with the words! - Yes, sir! - The Minister had already given up his
personality was so already stone dead when he hineinstuerzte in verhaengnisvolle of that vessel. - So
had his death not physical, but a vast deep psychological cause. "-

"Physician," the prince said angrily, "physician, you talk now half an hour, and I'll be damned
if I understand a syllable of it. What do you do with your physical and psychic? "

"The physical principle," the doctor took the floor again, "is the
condition of the vegetative Life, the psychological reasons however,
the human organism, which is only in the spirit in the thinking power
the drive wheel of the existence of place.

"

"Still," the prince said in the highest displeasure, "I still do not
understand you, incomprehensible!"

"I mean," said the doctor, "I mean, Serene Tiger, that the physical
is merely on the purely vegetative life without thinking power, as
it occurs in plants, the psychic but refers to the power of thought.

Since this now predominates in the human organism, then the Doctor
is always in the power of thought, start with the spirit and the body
only as a vassal of the mind , Consider the fit must be as soon as
the lord wills it.

"

The latter type of meeting is the more difficult to handle, and nothing could exceed his gift
for presiding over and guiding debate. He could set out a political situation to his party
with extraordinary force and lucidity. He could also, when he chose, so present an issue as
to suggest almost irresistibly the conclusion which he desired--and this was how he led. Where
he came short in the quality of leadership was in the personal contact.

His relations with all his followers in the party were courteous and cordial; yet without the
least appearance of aloofness he was always aloof. He did not invite discussion. It needed
some courage to go to him with a question in policy, and if you went, the answer would be simply
a "Yes" or "No." He lacked what Lord Morley attributed to Gladstone, "the priceless gift of
throwing his mind into common stock." No one thought more constantly, or further ahead; but
he could not, rather than would not, impart his mind by bringing it into contact with others. But Prosper and one of those little men on the sheet touched,
'was it alive, jumped out and flitted and hopped on the marble table even funny around and snapped
the fingers and made with crooked legs, the most beautiful of all the pirouettes and entrechats
and singing Quirr, burbot, Pirr, cardboard until it Prosper in the head again and took the book,
laid it out soon and ausglaettete ausplaettete the colorful picture.

In the same way, all images were viewed in the book, but so often been called Balthasar wanted:
"This is it, this is tin!" he had to but, more gazing to his Regret to perceive that the little
man had no means cinnabar.

"It's strange enough," said Prosper Alpanus, when the book ended.
- "But," continued He continued, "may perhaps be a vermilion earth
spirit.

Let's see."

He hopped with rare agility again up the cedar staircase, took another Folios dusted it off neatly,
placed it on the marble table and beat him up, saying: "This work deals with the earth spirits,
maybe we'll catch the cinnabar in this book." The friends in turn saw a lot of clean copper illuminated
panels, the abominable ugly brownish-yellow monsters represented. And as she touched Prosper Alpanus,
they raised squeaky whiny complaints and finally crawled out cumbersome
and rolled growling and groaning on the marble tables around until
the doctor they hineindrueckte again in the book.

Even under these Balthasar had not found the cinnabar.

"Wunderlich Hoechst, strange," said the doctor, and fell into silent reflection.

"The beetle Koenig," he continued, "the king Kaefer it can not be, because that is, I certainly know,
just now busy elsewhere, spinning Marshal not, because spiders Marshal Although ugly, but intelligent
and skillful, also lives by his own labor, without the actions of others to masses. - Wunderlich
- very strange. "-

He was silent again for a few minutes, so that all sorts of wonderful
voices, out soon in each Lutes, now in full swelling chords rang out
all around, clearly heard.

"They are everywhere and constantly quite like music, my dear sir, "said Fabian. Prosper Alpanus
did not seem to pay attention to Fabian he only took the Balthasar in the eye by He first reached
out both arms to him and then moved his fingers against his back,
as sprinkle him with invisible droplets.

Finally took the doctor Balthazar both hands and spoke with a friendly Ernst: "Only the pure consonance
of the psychic principle in the law of dualism favored the operation, I will do now. Follow me! "-

The friends followed the doctor through several rooms, except some strange animals with Reading - Writing
- Drawing - Dancing employees, just contained nothing remarkable, until two hinged doors opened,
and the friends took a heavy curtain, behind Prosper the Alpanus disappeared and she let in
a thick darkness. The curtain swept apart, and the friends were in one, as it seemed, oval
room where a magical Light and dark spreads.

It was looked upon the walls, when the views are loosing in unpredictable green trees and Blumenau
with rippling springs and streams. The mysterious fragrance an unknown aroma floated up and down
and seemed out the sweet tones of the harmonica and carry her.

Prosper Alpanus appeared quite white dressed as a Brahmin and found in the middle of the room
a large round crystal mirror, over which he threw a veil.

"Come," he said dully and solemnly, "You stand before this mirror, Balthasar, judge Share your
thoughts fixed on Candida - do you want with all my heart that she'll show the moment that exists
now in space and time "-

Balthasar did as he was told by Prosper Alpanus stood behind him and with both Hands circles
described him.

It took a few seconds, when a bluish scent floated out of the mirror. Candida, the lovely Candida
appeared in her lovely figure with all the fullness of life! But in addition to it, beside her
sat the hideous vermilion and pressed her hands, she kissed - Candida and embraced the monster
did with one arm and caressed him! - Balthasar wanted According to
cry, but Prosper Alpanus took him hard on both shoulders, and the
cry smothered in the chest.

"Quiet," Prosper said quietly, "calm Balthasar - Take this Pipe and perform tricks with the
little ones, but without moving from the spot. " Balthasar did, and saw to his pleasure, as
the boy writhed, turns over to floating on the earth! - The rage
he sprang forward, as the image faded away in mist and fog, and Prosper
Alpanus tore the great Balthasar back by force, shouting: "Keep one!
- Shattered the magic mirror, we are all lost! - We intend in the
Bright back.

"- The friends left at the doctor's behest the hall and entered a adjoining bright room.

"The sky," said Fabian, a deep breath adding, "Heaven be thanked that we made the haunted room are
out. The sultry air has me almost abgedrueckt the heart, and Then the silly gimmickry to the contrary
in me deep soul. "-

Balthasar was about to answer when Prosper Alpanus occurred. "It is," he said, "it is now certain
that the deformed cinnabar neither a root man is an earth spirit yet, but An ordinary man. But
it is a secret magical power in the game to recognize the I have not yet succeeded, and that
is why I can not help. - Visit Me again soon, Balthasar, then we want to see what next start.
Good-bye! "-

"Well," said Fabian, hinantretend close to the doctor, "so you are a magician, Mr. Doctor, and
with all your magic can not even the little s miserable cinnabar to get rid of? - You know
well that I do along with all its colorful pictures, dolls, magic Mirrors, with all your grotesque
stuff for holding a right foregone charlatan? - The Balthasar, who is in love and make verses
can persuade you to all sorts of stuff but with me you get to bad! - I am an enlightened man
and perfectly statuiere No wonder! "

"Hold," said Prosper Alpanus by laughed stronger and warmer now than
it trust him for all his well-being could "keep the way you want but.
- I'm not exactly equal to a magician, so I command but you neat tricks.

" "From Wieglebs 'magic' for better or else!" - Fabian said. "Now that you see on our Professor
Mosch Terpin your masters and allowed to get with him not compare, because the honest man
suggests again that everything is of course not, and surrounds herself with such mysterious
Economy than you, my sir. - Well, I respectfully recommend you! "

"Ah," said the doctor, "they are not so in anger leave me?"

And he stressed the Fabian quiet down several times on both arms from
shoulder to the wrist, that this was especially felt and he said anxiously,
"What do You, Herr Doctor!

"-" Go, my Lord, "said the doctor," you, Balthasar, I hope to see again very soon. - Soon the Help
there will be found!

"He will get but not tip, my friend," Fabian said in going out to the golden porter and took him
to the Jabot.

The clerk said, but again nothing but "Quirrr" and bit again the Fabian in the finger.

"Beast!" said Fabian and ran away from.

The two frogs did not fail to accompany the two friends politely until the Gattertor, dealing
with a dull thunder opened and closed. - "I know," said Balthasar, as He herwandelte on the
road behind the Fabian, "I do not even know, brother, what you today for a strange rock have been
subjected to such terrible food and such long Scho short sleeves. "

Fabian saw to his astonishment that his short skirt down hinterwaerts grown to the ground, however,
that the otherwise pleasure over the long sleeves were up shrunk down to the elbow.

"A thousand thunders, what's that!" he cried and pulled and tugged at the sleeves and moved her
shoulders. That seemed to help too, but they now went through the city gate, so shrinking the sleeves
up, so grew the rock Eat Scholars, that all pulling and plucking and back regardless The sleeves
soon sat high up on the shoulder, Fabian's award-giving bare arms, that soon nachwaelzte him a
trail, longer and longer to stretching. All the people stood still and laughed heartily, the
street boys ran dozens of cheering and shouting over the long robe, and tore to Fabian, and
how he was missing again roused, no Bits of the train, no! - They had become even longer. And always
great and great was laughter, cheering and shouting, until finally Fabian, half mad, in an
open House crashed. - Immediately the train was gone.

Balthasar had no time to wonder about Fabian's strange enchantment much; because the Referendarius
Pulcher took him, tore him away to a secluded road and said: "How is it possible that you're not
already gone that you can see up here, as the caretaker with the
warrant you have pursued.

"-" What is it, what are you talking? Balthasar asked in astonishment. "So far," said the
Referendarius, "so far ripped up the madness of jealousy out that you hurt the home, hostile break into
Mosch Terpin house that you ueberfielst the tin with his bride, that
you are the misshapen Daeumling beat half to death!

"-" I ask you, "cried Balthasar," The whole day I'm not even in Kerepes, disgraceful lie. "-" O
still, still, "he broke in Pulcher, "Fabian's nonsensical great idea to put a drag dress up saves.
No one respects now yours! - You only remove the disgraceful arrest, the rest we do because
even fight. You may not in your apartment! - Give me the keys, I'll send to you all. - Fort
after high-Jakob Home "!

And it tore out of the Referendarius Balthasar continues through distant streets, through the gate
to the village of high-Jakob's home where the famous scholar Ptolemy Philadelphus his strange
Wrote book on the unknown tribes of the students.

The Professor Mosch Terpin swam in noisy rapture. "Could," he said to himself, "could I come
across as a bit happier than that of the excellent Secret Spezialrat in my House came as Studiosus?
- He married my daughter - he is my son, by him I attain the favor of the noble princes barsanuphe
and climb to the ladder, to my wonderful Zinnoberchen hinaufklimmt.
- It is true that I often incomprehensible even occurs, as the girl
who Candida are so fond totally can in the little ones.

Otherwise, the woman probably sees more on a well presented, as a
special spiritual gifts, and sometimes I look for now to the Spezialmaennlein,
it seems to me as if he was not quite to mention handsome - even -
Bossu - still - St - St - the walls have ears - it is the princes
Favorite, will always rise higher - higher up and is my son!

"-

Mosch Terpin was right, Candida has expressed the most decided tendency for the small and said, were
now and then one that cinnabar strange ghost had not ensnared to
understand that the secret is actually a fatal Spezialrat misshapen
thing but, once of the beautiful hair, making him the nature gifted.

No one smiled, spoke as if Candida, derisive than Referendarius Pulcher.

This put the vermilion after every step, and in this he was faithfully
the Privy Secretary Adrian at precisely the same young man, almost
from the cinnabar charm the office of the Minister would have dislodged,
and the favor of princes only by the excellent Fleck won ball again,
which he handed to him.

The Secret Spezialrat cinnabar lived in a nice house with a garden
even more beautiful, in the middle of which was with a dense shrubbery
surrounding square, where the most glorious Roses are blooming.

They had noticed that always the ninth day cinnabar at dawn quiet got up, so it might be pissed him
without all of the Help there dressed servant, in the garden went down and disappeared into the
bushes that surrounded that place.

Pulcher and Adrian, suspecting some mystery, it ventured in one night, as cinnabar, as they
learn of his valet, had visited that place nine days ago, the garden wall to rise and hide in the
bushes.

No sooner had the morning dawned, they saw, therefore, convert the child, and snorting snuff,
because he, as he walked through the middle of a flower, the tauichten stalks and shrubs around
the nose beat.

When he arrived on the lawn at the roses, a suesstoenendes labor went through the Bushes, and
penetrating, the scent of roses.

A beautiful veiled woman with wings floated down to the shoulders,
sat on the graceful chair that among the Rosenbueschen was adopted,
with quiet words: "Come, my dear child," the little tin and it meshes
with a golden comb his long hair, which hinabwallte his back.

The the boy seemed to do very well because he blinked his little eyes and stretched his legs
long, and growled and grumbled almost like a hangover. This had probably lasted five minutes,
because once again the magical woman ran a finger along the little ones the apex, Pulcher and
Adrian and a narrow, fire-colored stripe will beheld on his head Cinnabar. Now, the woman said:
"Farewell, my sweet child - Be smart, be wise, as you can, "The Little said:" Good-bye, dearie, I'm
smart enough, you need that for me not so often to repeat. "-

The woman rose slowly and disappeared into the air.

Pulcher and Adrian were paralyzed with amazement. But when it wanted to proceed cinnabar, jumped out
of Referendarius and shouted, "Good morning, Mr. Secret Spezialrat egg! beautiful as you can
tweak it! "cinnabar looked around and wanted when he Referendarius
saw them run fast.

Clumsy and weak on the legs, But as he was, he tripped and fell into
the tall grass that the stalks, which closed over him, and he was
in Taubade.

Pulcher jumped up and helped him to his feet, but snarled cinnabar at him: "Lord, how do you
come here in my garden shears you to hell!" And thus He jumped and ran as fast as he could
only into the house.

Pulcher wrote to Balthasar this wonderful event and promised his attention to double on the small
magical beast. Vermilion seemed about what happened to him, bleak. He liked to get to bed and
moans and groans so that the customer is, how he suddenly ill, now a minister moonlight, the
princes came barsanuphe.

Fuerst barsanuphe immediately sent his personal physician to the little darling.

"My Secret Spezialrat most excellent," said the physician, as he felt
his pulse, "They sacrifice themselves for the state.

Hard work she has thrown on the bedside, sustained thought you caused enormous suffering,
you must feel. You look on his face very pale and haggard from, but your main value glows
terrible! - Well, well! - But no Gehirnentzuendung?

If the best interests of the State produced the like have? Hardly possible! - Let it "The physician
probably did the same red streak had discovered on cinnabar head perceive the Pulcher and Adrian.
He did, after he some magnetic lines in the distance trying a touch
of the patients also variously what this mauzte quinkelierte significantly
and now go there with your hand over the main and touched the same
thing unwittingly.

Jumped cinnabar, foaming with rage, in the height and was with his little Knochenhaendchen the physician,
who remains bowed just all about him, such a firm slap that echoed
throughout the room.

"What you want," cried vermilion, "what do you
want from me what you crawl around on me my head! I'm not sick, I'm
healthy, very healthy, will get up at once and Minister for travel
to the conference, continues to shave "-!

The physician hurried away
quite frightened of. But when he told the princes barsanuphe, what
happened to him, delighted in calling this: "What a zeal for the service
of the State! - Which would, in which territorial behavior! - What
a man, this tin! "-

"My best secret Spezialrat," said the Minister
Praetextatus of moonshine to the small Cinnabar, "how wonderful it
is that you are not respecting your illness, in the conference. Government are saying to the people of Ulster, he said, "Convince us that you are in
earnest, show us that you will fight, and we will yield to you as we have yielded to everybody
else." Captain Craig, following, said that the Prime Minister anticipated that Ulster's objection
would after a few years be merely a ripple on the surface. "If the right honourable gentleman
has challenged this part of his Majesty's dominions to civil war, we accept the challenge."

This temper soon had ugly expression. On June 29th an excursion party of the Ancient Order
of Hibernians (the Roman Catholic counterpart to the Orange Order) met with another excursion
party of Protestants, mainly Sunday-school children, at a place called Castledawson. Aquatint by Houel

In former eras, we were led back by looking at a vase of delicious large size and perfect preservation.
Furthermore, there seemed some remnants of architecture have to put
in the new church here and there.

Since there are no Gasthoefe, so we had a friendly family and a given place elevated alcove in
a large room admitted. A green curtain separated us and our luggage from the house members, which
in the great room noodles fabricated, and that From the finest, broadest and smallest species,
including those who are paid the most expensive, which, after they are introduced into the shape
of long pins member, nor of any sharp Maedchenfingern once rotated into itself, adopt a worm-like
shape. We put us to the beautiful children that we could explain the treatment and heard that
they called out the best and worst wheat, Grano forte fabricated would. It is much more manual
work as a machine - and formality before. And so they had us for even the most excellent pasta
dish prepared regretted, however, that most perfect grade of the Variety, except Girgenti, yes,
except her house could not be made, not even a court is available.
At White and tenderness seemed to have no equal this.

During the night, our guide knew how to soothe the impatience that
we hinabwaerts drove by us again led to the height to magnificent
views and us an overview of the situation was all the sights we should
see tomorrow in the neighborhood.

Girgenti, Wednesday, 25 April 1787

By sunrise we walked down now, where at each step the picturesque surroundings anliess. Mt knowing
that it would add to our advantage, led us to the little man inexorably across the rich vegetation,
over a thousand details, each of which The restaurant offered to idyllic scenes. On that point,
the inequality of the ground much at all at, which moved towards wavelike about hidden ruins, the
more likely with fertile Earth could be covered, as the former building of a light Muscheltuff
passed. And so we arrived at the eastern end of town, where the debris of the June temple expire
every year more because it is just used up the looser stone of air
and weather.

Today only a cursory contemplation should be made, but already chooses Kniep wanted the points
of which draw from it tomorrow.

The temple is currently on a weathered rock, from where it ranged the city walls just east
on a Kalklager out that perpendicular to the flat Shore, the sea earlier and later, after it formed
these rocks and their feet had washed out. were part of the rock cut, partly built of the same the
walls, which rose up behind which the number of temples.

No wonder then that the lower the ascending and the highest part of Girgenti together by the
sea produces a significant Sight granted.

The Temple of Concordia has withstood so many centuries, and its sleek architecture closed
to him yet our scale of the beautiful and pleasing, to which he behaves Paestum Goettergestalt like
a giant picture. I do not want to complain that the recent been laudable intent to preserve these
monuments executed, tasteless by the gaps with dazzling white plaster mending; by this monument
is also in some Way, then had shattered from the eye, how easy it would have been to the plaster,
the color of the weathered give stone! You can see the course so easily at the crumbling limestone columns
and walls, so one wonders that he is still so long. But hoping the builders, on a similar progeny,
therefore, had taken precaution: you can still find remnants a fine
veneer on the columns, which also please the eye and hide the duration
should.

Gebaelkfragment Temple of Zeus in Agrigento (Girgenti). Gouache by Houel

The next station was Godann at the ruins of the Temple of Jupiter on hold. This is bent over backwards,
as the bone mass of a giant skeleton inside - small and under multiple Possessions, fences
cut, of higher and lower plants mixed. All Formed has disappeared from this except a pile of rubble
and a vast triglyph Composition of the same proportions Halbsaeule. I measured those with outstretched
arms and starts aftern it was not from the fluting of the column, however this can be a conception
, That I give, is standing, the same as a small niche fills with both shoulders abutment. Twenty-two
men, in the circle next to each other would, about the Periphery
of such a column form.

We parted with the unpleasant feeling that for the artist to do nothing had.

The Temple of Hercules opted to discover traces of former symmetry. The two Colonnade, strokes,
the temple and over there were accompanied in the same direction as at once put down, from north to south,
those hinaufwaerts a hill, this hinabwaerts. The hill might have emerged from the disintegrated cell.
The columns, probably held together through the wooden structure collapsed, at a time, perhaps struck
by Sturmwut, and they are still regularly in the pieces from which
they were composed, disintegrate.

This strange occurrence draw accurately, Kniep already pointed in his thoughts pins.

The Temple of Aesculapius, the most beautiful of the carob tree shaded and into a small economic field
house almost walled in, has a friendly image.

Now we descended to the tomb of Theron and enjoyed the presence of this replicated as many times
Monuments seen, especially since we are the foreground was a wonderful view; because you looked
from west to east in the rock bed on which the gaps City walls and
through them and about them were to see the remains of the temple.

In Hackert dexterous hand, this view is to become a positive image;
Kniep is an outline also there does not leave.

Girgenti, Thursday, 26 April 1787.

When I awoke, Kniep was ready, with a boy who shows him the way and the should take cardboard
to be his drawing journey. I enjoyed the most glorious morning the window, my secret, silent
but not mute friend by your side. Of pious Shyness, I have not mentioned the name of the mentor,
which I view from time to time and last manned, it is the excellent von Riedesel, the booklet I like
a breviary, or Talisman wear on her bosom. Very much I have always mirrored in such beings, the
have what I lack, and just so here it is: peaceful intent, the purpose of security, neat, decorous
means of preparation and knowledge, intimate relationship with a masterly Instructive to Winckelmann,
all this is from me and everything else that arises from it. And yet I can not be my enemy, that
I have to sneak to storm the, to erlisten search, which was denied me during my life in the ordinary
way. May those excellent man at this moment in the middle of the Weltgetuemmel feel like a grateful
Descendant of celebrating his achievements, lonely lonely in the
place, which even for him so much stimuli had, that he even here,
forgotten by his family and their forgetting to spend his days wished.

Now I ran through yesterday's way with my little spiritual leader, the items multiple pages and
looking at my industrious friend here and there visiting.

On a beautiful institution of the old mighty city made me my guide
carefully.

In the rocks and Gemaeuermassen, which were used to Girgenti stronghold, are found Graeber, probably
the brave and the good intended for Ruhestaette. Where could these nicer to own glory and eternally
alive emulation be buried!

In the wide space between the walls and the sea are found the remains
of a small Temple, received as a Christian chapel.

Again, with the Halbsaeulen Quaderstuecken the wall again nicest connected, and both worked together
Hoechst, encouraging the Eye. It is believed to feel exactly the point where the Doric order
their perfected mass has received.

Some inconspicuous monument of antiquity was superficially considered,
then with more attention to store the current type, the wheat in the
ground in large brick-lined vaults.

About the civil and church state told me the good old man many things. I heard of anything
that would be only somewhat in recording. The talks sent quite well with the inexorable crumbling
ruins.

The layers of the Muschelkalk all fall to the sea. Miraculously from the bottom and back blown-out
Felsbaenke whose upper and front will be partly, so they like herunterhaengende fringes look
like.

Hatred of the French, because with the Barbary peace have them and they are to blame, they betrayed the
Christians to the infidels.

From the sea an ancient gate was carved out of rock. The remaining walls gradually founded
on the rock. Our cicerone was called Don Michael Vella, antiquarian, residing at Gerio champion
in the proximity of St. Mary.

to plant the beans, they proceed as
follows: they make in the proper distance from each other Holes in
the ground, whither they do a handful of manure, they expect rain,
and then put the beans.

The planks burn wash them, with the resulting ash to the canvas. They use no soap. And the look
of almond shells burn they use the same and instead of soda. First they wash the clothes with
water and then with such water.

The result is the fruit of her building beans, wheat, Tumenia, the fourth year they have it
to the meadow lie. In beans, the beans are understood here. Their wheat is infinitely beautiful.
Tumenia that names should be rewritten to "bimenia" or "trimenia" is a wonderful Gift of Ceres:
it is a kind of summer grain, which will mature in three months. They sow the first of January to June,
where it always is at the appointed time is right.

She needs not much rain, but intense heat, and at first she has a very soft hand, but it grows the
wheat to and does end very strong.

They sow the seeds in October and November, it ripens in June. The barley is sown in November, early
June mature faster on the coast, slower in the mountains.

The flax is already ripe. The Acanthus has deployed its beautiful leaves. Salsola fruticosa
grows lush.

On undeveloped hills sainfoin grows abundantly. It is leased in part and buendelweis brought into
the city. They also sell buendelweis the oats, which they made with wheat ausgaeten.

They make like lines with Raendchen in the soil, where they want to
plant cabbage, for the sake of watering.

On the fig leaves were all out, and the fruit had set.

They become St. John's ripe, then the tree is in again. The almonds were hung very full, a trimmed
Must without a doubt contributed endless pods.

The grapes for dinner to be held at arcades, through high pillar supports. Melons they lay in
March, which mature in June. In the ruins Temple of Jupiter, they are growing merrily without a
trace of moisture.

The greatest appetite vetturino ass with raw artichokes and turnips, you have to admit, however, that
they are much juicier than tenderness and as with us. If one comes through field, so let the
farmers to eat, for example, young broad beans, as much as you want.

When I was on black, solid stone was carefully, which resembled a lava, I said the Antiquary,
they were from Aetna, also at the port or landing place but stood such.

The birds there's not much in this country: quail. The migratory birds are: nightingales, larks
and swallows.

Rinnine, small black birds that come from the Levant hedges, in Sicily
and go forward or backward.

Ridene come in December and January from Africa, fall to the Akragas down, and then they retreat
to the mountains.

From the vase in the cathedral, a word. On the same hero in complete armor, as it is as a newcomer
in front of a seated elderly, the crown and scepter as described by Koenig is. Behind this stands
a woman, the head lowered, his left hand under his chin, carefully thoughtful position. Opposite
the hero behind the age, also crowned, he speaks spies carrying a man who may be of the guard. The
old man seems the hero introduced to and have to say to the guard: "Let him talk with the king,
it is an honest man "

The Red seems the reason for this vase, the black to set. Only on the woman's dress appears red
to black to sit.

Girgenti, Friday, 27 April 1787.

If Kniep will execute all the resolutions, he must draw constantly,
while I with my old young leaders wandering.

We walked towards the sea, from where the Girgenti, as we insure the elderly, did not cover very
well. The view was in the wave length drawn, and my guide drew my attention to a long clouds
streak the south, an equal hillsides, resting on the horizontal line appeared: this was the
suggestion the coast of Africa, he said. I noticed, however, a different phenomenon than strange,
it was made of light clouds, a narrow arch, which, standing up with one foot in Sicily, high in the
blue, by the way completely clear sky hinwoelbte and in with the other end of the South seemed to
rest on the sea. From the setting sun at all whitewashed and little movement showing that he
was such a strange sight as a positive phenomenon. There stood this arc, I was assured, especially
in the direction of Malta and may well in this island's other foot
have established the phenomenon come from sometimes.

Oddly enough would be it if the attraction of the two islands to
each other on the atmosphere in this Art kundtaete.

This conversation was with me the question again active, if I visit the intent, Malta, should give
up. But the even earlier thought about difficulties and dangers remain still the same, and we are resolved
to our vetturino to Messina to hire.

These should again be traded after a wayward cricket. I had was in fact seen in the recent ways in Sicily
little grain-rich areas, then the horizon anywhere near and distant mountains restricted, making
it the island at all Areas seemed to be missing and you did not understand how this country
Ceres favored so well should have. When I asked afterwards, said to me that I, to see this,
instead of Syracuse, had to go across the country, where I find enough for the wheat lines would.
We followed this temptation to give Syracuse by us was not unknown
that remained of this wonderful city little more than the magnificent
Cathedral of name.

At most, was visit to Catania from easy.

Caltanissetta, Saturday, 28 April 1787

Today we can at last say that we have become a descriptive term, such as Sicily the honorary name
of a granary of Italy can get. A range after we Girgenti leave began,
the fertile soil. There are no large areas, but gently against each
other running mountain - and Huegelruecken, consistency ordered with
wheat and barley to a continuous Mass of fertility to the eye present.
The appropriate soil these plants will then be used and so protected
that you never see a tree, even all the small villages and homes lie
on backs of the hills, where a series hinstreichende limestone soil
useless anyway makes. The women live there all year, busy with spinning
and weaving, the men however, the actual period of field work and
it only Saturday and Sunday with them to other days they stay down
at night and pull back in Rohrhuetten. And so then our wish was fulfilled
to the point of boredom, we would have Triptolems Fluegelwagen wished
to escape from the monotony.

Now we were riding in hot sunshine through
this desert fertility and were happy in the well-situated and well-built
Caltanisetta last to arrive, but where we again tried in vain to have
a tolerable inn. The mules are in highly curved Stables, the servants
sleep on the clover for the animals is determined, the stranger must
his household to start over. Elect to purchase all the room must first
be purified be. I am not competent, because
I have not shared in the experience of the history of the Ulster people, to decide whether
or not their fears are groundless. All these things seem to me to be beside the point. If Ulster
means to do what it says, then the results are certainly such as no citizen can contemplate
without grave concern.... I admit, everyone must admit, that there are circumstances in which
a Government is entitled and bound to run this kind of risk. The
Baron Praetextatus let everything happen and said, smiling to himself, is "So It simple people
with no ancestors who are not of such good old custom, as the moon. " The young lady, informed of
the threatening mischief, fled to the capital, and Soon after, the Baron Praetextatus a cabinet
was ordered by the princes of the country means which he made known that there would be no witch,
and was told that village courts for the nose as greed to look Schwimmkuenste a Stiftsfraeuleins,
throw in the tower, to let the other farmers and their wives suggest, however, with sensitive
physical punishment think of the lady Rose Schoen not bad. They went to were afraid to against
the threat of punishment and thought well of the young lady now, which for both, for the village
and for the Lady Rose Schoen, had the salutary consequences.

In the Cabinet of the princes they knew very well that the girl from Rose Schoen nobody was different
than the other famous world-famous fairy Rosabelverde. It had the matter following Meaning:

In the whole wide earth was probably scarcely found elsewhere, a charming country, as the small
Principality, which was the estate of Baron Praetextatus by moonlight, where the Lady of Rose
Schoen lived, in short, which came to pass that all that I command you, dear reader, the wider to
tell just was on the point.

surrounded by high mountains, was like the little country with its green, fragrant woods, with its
flowery meadows, with its rushing streams and funny gurgling fountains, especially as it no towns,
villages and friendly but only occasionally standing alone Palaces were in it, a wonderfully
beautiful garden where the residents as to their desire modified, free of any oppressive burdens
of life. Everyone knew that Demetrius Fuerst the country's ruling, no one noticed, however,
the least of the government, and all were so very well satisfied. Persons who complete freedom
in all its start, a beautiful Area, a mild climate have loved their stay did not choose more
than in the Principality, and so it happened that among other various excellent Fairies of
the good kind, where warmth and freedom is known about everything that moved into the area had. You 'd'
it will be attributed, that almost in every village, but especially in the woods very often went
the most pleasant surprise and that everyone, from the delight the joy of this miracle entirely
surrounded, completely believed in the miraculous, and without it To know yourself, for that
reason was a happy, therefore, good citizenship. The good fairies, established in the free choice
throughout Dschinnistan had realized the excellent Demetrius like to put an eternal life.
This was however not in their power. Demetrius died, and his young Paphnutius followed in the
government. Paphnutius had in his lifetime his father's a silent inner nurtured grief about it that
people and the state after his opinion on the way hopelessly neglected, neglected was. He decided
to and rule immediately appointed his valet Andres him once, when he at the inn lie behind the
mountains its stock market can, six ducats borrowed, and thus of great Not had broken, the first
minister of the kingdom. "I want to govern, my friend!" called him Paphnutius to. Andres read
in the eyes of his master, what was going on inside him, threw him to Feet, and said solemnly:
"Sire, the great hour has come - rising shining through you! a realm of mighty chaos up! -
Sire! this begs the most faithful vassal, a thousand voices the poor unfortunate people in the chest
and throat! - Sire! - Insert the clarification! - Paphnutius felt himself thoroughly shaken by
the lofty idea of ​​his minister. He picked it up, tore it stormy to his chest and said, sobbing:
"Minister - Andres - I'm six ducats you owe - even more - my happiness - my kingdom! - O faithful,
cleverer Servant "! -

Paphnutius immediately wanted an edict with large print letters and
hitting on all corners , Let that from that hour was introduced to
the clarification and make sure everyone is after that have.

Best Sire! " However, Andres said, "Best Sire, is not it!" - "How are then, my good man? "said
Paphnutius, took his ministers at the lapel and pulled him into it in the Cabinet, which he completed
Tuere.

"Look," began Andres, as he compared to his princes on a small stool
space taken, "you see, sir - the impact of your Fuerstlichen edict
because of the Enlightenment would be disturbed perhaps ugly way if
we do not measure so that a rule Linking seems hard, however, the
dictates prudence. - Before we clear up the , Ie, advancing before
we cut down the forests to make navigable stream, grow potatoes, improve
the rural schools, planting acacias and poplars, the youth their morning
and evening song two voices singing, creating roads and let the cowpox
to inoculate, it is necessary to all people from dangerous sentiments,
which give no sense of hearing and the people by sheer nonsense seduce,
banish from the state - you have Arabian Nights read, best prince,
for I know that your Highness late Mr. Papa, where the sky give a
gentle rest in the grave may, like fatal loved books and you, as They
still wield hobbies and ate gilded gingerbread, in the hands was.

Well, then! - From that book you will be totally confused, my lord, well known as Fairies know,
but certainly not suspect that several of these dangerous people love in your own land here very close
to their palace are located, and all sorts Mischief. "" What? - What he says? - Andres! Minister!
- Fairies! - Here in my country "? - So cried Fuerst, by very pale in the chair fell back. - "Quiet,
my dear Sir, "said Andres," stay calm, we can as soon as we prudently against those enemies the
Enlightenment to pull field. Yes! - Enemies of the Enlightenment, I call them, because only they
are the goodness of your Blessed Lord Papas abusive, blame, that the State nor love is down
in complete darkness. They drive a dangerous business with the miraculous and are not afraid
to spread under the name of poetry a secret poison, the people quite unable to make service
in the Enlightenment. Then they have such intolerable anti-police Habits that they should already
be tolerated in any civilized state why. For example, in the Frechen entbloeden not, and as
you remember walking in the air to go with preloaded pigeons, swans, and even winged horses. Now
I ask But, sir, it is worth the trouble to design a spared Akzisetarif and introduce, if there are people
in the state, which are capable of any careless citizens throw untaxed goods into the chimney,
as they want? - Therefore, my dear Sir, - and the clarification is announced, continue with the fairies!
- Your palaces are surrounded by police, it deprives them of their dangerous effects, and creates
them as vagabonds continued after their native land, which, as you, sir, know of the Arabian Nights
to be the little country Dschinnistan is. "" To post to this country, Andres? "so asked the prince.
"Currently, no," Andres, "replied but can perhaps be led to Enlightenment journalière up there
with benefits. "-" But Andres, "said the prince continued, "you will not find our case against
the fairies hard - is the pampered people not complain? "-" this too, "said Andres," too, I know a
remedy. Not all Fairies, sir, we want to send away for Dschinnistan, but few in the country , But
keep them not only deprive all means of enlightenment to be hurtful but also appropriate means to apply
them into useful members of the enlightened State re create. Do they not engage in solid marriages,
they may under strict supervision any useful business driving, knitting socks for the army; if
there is war, or else Be careful, my lord, people will very soon to the fairies when they walk
in them, do not believe, and this is the best. So everything etwanige are grumbling by itself
- which incidentally affects the utensils of the fairies, they fall home Fuerstlichen the Treasury,
the doves and swans are as delicious Roast in the royal cuisine delivered with the winged
horses but you can also Make attempts to cultivate them and to form into useful beasts by
giving them the Wings and cut them to Stallfuetterung are we still hope that together with will
introduce the Enlightenment. "-

Paphnutius was satisfied with all the proposals of his ministers on the highest, and already Next
day was executed, what was decided.

In every corner because of the edict was emblazoned introducet Enlightenment, and at the same
time The police broke into the palaces of the fairies, took all their property confiscated,
and led they caught on.

Let the heavens know how it happened that the fairy Rosabelverde was the only one of all; the
few hours earlier, before the Enlightenment came, got wind of it and used the time their swans
to set at liberty, their magical Rosenstoecke and other valuables aside to create. They also
knew namely that they had chosen to remain in the country, which they are, though with great
reluctance, said.

In general, it could not yet Paphnutius Andres understand why the fairies after Dschinnistan
transported, were such a joy voiced over exaggerated and once over the other assured them that
of all possessions, they have to leave, not the least located. "In the end," said Paphnutius
indignant "at the end is a much prettier state Dschinnistan like
my own, and they laugh at me along with my edict and my enlightenment,
who now first is to thrive right!

"-

The geographer should report to the historians of the Empire over the country inconvenient.

Both
agreed that Dschinnistan is a miserable country without culture, education, Learning, acacias
and cowpox, actually not even exist.

Insult for But a man or a whole country not respond well, than not exist.

Paphnutius felt reassured.

When the beautiful flowery grove, where the deserted palace of the
fairy Rosabelverde was cut down was by way of example, and even all
Paphnutius Bauerluemmeln in the next village Cowpox had been inoculated,
adapted the fairy princes in the forest, through the he wanted to
go back to the Minister Andres for his castle.

As they drove it with all sorts of Phrases, but especially with some eerie Kuntstueckchen they from
the police recovered, so cornered that he asked for Heaven's sake, but with a point be content
and therefore increase the single best Fraeuleinstifts throughout the country, where, without to return
to the Aufklaerungsedikt, and want to be able to freely exercise.

The fairy Rosabelverde accepted the offer and came this way in the
Fraeuleinstift where they were located, as already told, the girl
from Rose Green beauty, but then, at the urgent Request of the Baron
Praetextatus of moonlight, the girl named Rose Schoen.

In the familiar letters of the world famous scholar Ptolemy Philadelphus to his Rufin friend wrote
when he was on long journeys is the following remarkable passage include:

"You know, my dear Rufin, that I have nothing in the world, for example, fear, and fear, as the
burning rays of the day, which consume the powers of my body and my Rigging and weary spirit
follows that all thoughts flow together in a confused picture and I vainly after that rings
even any clear design in my soul . Enter I maintain, therefore, in this hot season of the day
to rest at night but my Travel continue, and so I was then last night on the trip. My driver was
lost in the thick darkness from the right, comfortable way and was suddenly get on the highway.
However, I but by the hard collisions that existed here in the car was thrown back and forth
so that my head is full of dents one with walnuts filled bag was
not dissimilar, but I awoke from deep sleep into which I absorbed,
not till I had with a terrible jolt out of the car out on the hard
Soil crashed.

The sun was shining brightly into my face, and through the turnpike, the densely stood before
me, I saw the tall towers of a considerable town. The truck driver lamented much, as not only the
pole, but also a rear wheel of the car at the big stone, the middle
of the road was broken, and seemed to have little or as much as me .

Take care I held, as befits the wise, my anger back, and called the guy just meek , he was
a damned rascal, he may consider that Ptolemy Philadelphus, the most famous scholars of his
time, also sat on the St-and drawbar hitch and wheel his bike .

Let You know, my dear Rufin, the violence that I exercise over the human heart; and so it
happened that the truck driver instantly unwatchable lament and me with the help of Chausseeinnehmers,
before his little house to go to the accident, the Legs helped. I had fortunately suffered no particular
damage and was able to slowly fortzuwandeln on the street, while dragging after the carter the
broken car difficult. Not far from the gate of the city I saw in the blue distance, met me now
but many people of such fantastical creatures, and in such strange clothes, I rubbed my eyes, to explore
whether I really awake or whether perhaps a great dream neckhafter just put myself in a foreign
country fabulous. - People that I have with right for residents the city, from whose gate I
saw coming, was allowed to keep wearing long, very wide pants, the nature of the Japanese cut
of delicious tools, velvet, Manchester, fine cloth or most colorful-embroidered linen, with
lace or pretty cords and ropes plenty busy, covering small to Kinderroecklein, hardly the abdomen,
usually from sun light color, a few were black. The unkempt hair hung in a natural Savagery
on shoulders and backs down, and on his head sat a little strange caps. Some had their necks completely
denuded after the manner of the modern Greeks and Turks, but others wore around his neck and chest
a little piece of white canvas, almost a Hemdekragen similar, like you, dear Rufin, they will
have seen the pictures of our ancestors. Notwithstanding these people seemed to be all very young, but
her deep and rough language, every her movements awkward, and some had a small shadow under
the nose as sitting there a Stutzbaertchen. From the buttocks of small skirts some sticking a
long tube out on the great silk tassels dangling. Others had pulled out this tube and small
- bigger - sometimes very large strange shaped heads down attached to it, from which they,
into blowing up through a very tapering tube, cleverly way to make artificial clouds of steam
rising knew.
 Normally, but for the chance of Parnell's overthrow, it would have been solved
in Gladstone's last years. For most Liberals, for all Labour men, the fact that it had passed
beyond the sphere of argument meant a lack of driving force. It was a part of accepted Liberal
orthodoxy; minds were centred rather on those social controversies in which Mr. Lloyd George
was the dominant figure, and upon which opinion had not yet crystallized.

Further, the cry of Protestant liberties in danger, the cause of Protestants who conducted
their arming to the accompaniment of hymns and prayer, made inevitably a searching appeal to
the feelings of an island kingdom where the prejudice against Roman Catholics is more instinctive
than anywhere else in the world. Looking back on it all, I marvel not at the difficulties we
encountered, but at the success with which we surmounted them; and the great element in that
success was Redmond's personality. His dignity, his noble eloquence, his sincerity, and the
large, tolerant nature of the man, won upon the public imagination. His tact was unfailing.
In all those years, under the most envenomed scrutiny, he never let slip a word that could
be used to our disadvantage. This is merely a negative statement. It is truer to say that he
never touched the question without raising it to the scope of great issues. Nothing petty,
nothing personal came into his discourse; he so carried the national claim of Ireland that
men saw in it at once the test and the justification of democracy.

That is why the Irish cause, instead of being a millstone round the neck of the parliamentary
alliance, was in truth a living cohesive force. But in order to keep it so it must be pleaded,
not as a question for Ireland only but for the democracy of Great Britain and, in a still larger
sense, for the Commonwealth of the British Empire. He told me with an open mind, purity of soul and
modesty, its history and language in general very determined and pleasing, had but no desire
to open its compartments, which may in any state praesentablen might be. The discourse soon
came to a halt.

21 September, evening.

I went to the old master builders Scamozzi, who issued the Palladian building, and a honest, passionate
artists. He gave me some instructions, pleased with my Participation. Among the buildings of
Palladio is one, for I always had a special fondness had, it should have been his own apartment,
but in the neighborhood is far more than you see in the picture. I would like drawn and illuminated
with the colors have to him under the Material and the age given. One must think not that the
builder is a Palace was built. It is the most humble home of the world, has only two windows
that by a wide space that vertruege the third window, set apart are. Could we to simulate
painting, so that would Nachbarhaeuser presented with, it would also to see the pleasure as
it is inserted between them.

The paint would have Canalettes should.

Today I attended a half hour from the city at a comfortable height lying Gorgeous house, called
the Rotunda. It is a rectangular building, which has a round, from above lighted hall closes in
itself. From all four sides, climb on wide staircases higher and reached every time in a vestibule,
which is formed by six Corinthian columns. Perhaps the art of building their luxury has never
driven higher. The space that the stairs and lobbies are taking is much bigger than the house itself,
for each page would meet as a view of a temple. Internally, it can be habitable, but not unusually
. Call The hall is the most beautiful proportion, the rooms too, but the needs a summer residence
of a noble family would hardly suffice them. For this purpose you it also represent the whole
area from all sides on the most glorious. The Manifold is large, in which his main body together
with the projecting columns In the Face of itinerant wanderers moved, and the intent of the owner
is fully achieved, of a large Fideikommissgut and also a sensual monument of his fortune left wanted.
And how does the building seen from all points of the area in his glory is so is the view from
hence also the pleasantest. We see the Bachiglione That flow from Verona ships coming down
against the Brenta, taking you look at the wide wanted to preserve possessions that Marchese Capra
Not cut off from his family. The inscriptions the four gable ends, which together constitute a whole,
deserve well recorded in respect of:

Marcus Gabrieli Capra filius qui aedes has arctissimo primogeniturae graduate subjecit una cum
censibus omnibus agris vallibus et collibus citra viam magnam memoriae
perpetua Mandans haec dum ac sustinet abstinet.

The ending is particularly strange enough: a man to whom so much power
and will to Bid feels was, or that he would have to suffer and do
without.

This can work with geringerm .

Learn

22 September.

This evening I was in a meeting, which was the Academy of the Olympians.

A plaything but a pretty good, it gets a little salt and living among the people. A large Room
next to the theater of Palladio, decent lights, the captain and part of the nobility , Present
the way, quite an audience of educated people, many of the clergy, together About five hundred.

By the President for abandoned today's meeting was whether the invention
or imitation of the fine arts have taken more advantage.

The incident was happy enough; because if you separate the question lies in the alternative,
so a hundred years is over and talk over here. Also, the men have served this opportunity to
heartily academics and in prose and verse, many produced, among much good.

Then there is the liveliest audience. The audience shouted Bravo, clapped and laughed. If one
also before his nation as they are, and should amuse himself! We give our best black and white:
each kauzt thus in a corner and knopert about how he can.

It is conceivable that Palladio also this time in all places and ends, it was liked by be inventing
or imitating the speech. Finally, wherever the jocularity required one had the happy thought, to say
the others he had used the Palladio removed, he would praise the other hand, Franceschini, the great
silk manufacturer. Now he began to Show what the imitation of the Lyons and Florentine fabrics This
efficient business , had got him through the city of Vicenza for advantage, resulting successes
that the imitation far beyond the invention will be exalted. And it was with such good humor
that a continuous Laughter was excited. at all were those who spoke for the imitation, more
cheers; because they said all sorts of things, how she thinks of
the heap and can think.

Once the audience was with great clapping a rather crude sophistry
its warm applause, as there are many had not felt good, even excellent
things in honor of the invention.

It gives me great pleasure have also experienced this, and then it is highly refreshing that after
so much Palladio Time to see still revered as a polar star and paragon of his fellow citizens.

22
September.

This morning I was in Tiene, located northwards towards the mountains, where a new building for an
old cracks will be performed, would like to be remembered for being little. So you honor here
everything from the good time and has sense enough to an inherited
plan a fresh building .

Perform The castle is quite excellent in a large Plaine, without the Limestone Alps Zwischengebirg
behind. flows from the building beside the dead straight road to both Pages living water to
come to the counter, and watered the vast rice fields, through the you drive.

I have now seen the first two Italian cities and talked to some people, but I think Italians
have known well. They are like courtiers, for the first people break into the world and with
certain benefits that you can not deny them to impunity's and can
easily imagine.

I consider the Italians as a pretty good nation, we , only the children and the common people
see, as I see it now and can see there I am always exposed to them and I always expose them.
And as for the figures and Eyes!

I must especially commend Vicenza, that with them the privileges of a large city enjoy. You
see a not make you like what you want; we'll do but to them, they are talkative and charming, especially
the women want me very much. The Veroneserinnen I will not blame, they have a good education
and strong profiles; but usually pale, and the Zendal does them harm
because you under the beautiful costume also something charming looks.

But here I find very pretty creature, especially a curly black Species
that inspired me a personal interest.

There is also a blonde, but to me will not relish Sun

Padua, 26 September, evening.

In four hours I am today heruebergefahren of Vicenza, a single-seat Chaischen, Sediola called,
packed with all my existence. You could move easily in four and a half Hours, but as I wanted
to enjoy the delicious happy days under the open sky, it was I am comfortable that the vetturino
fell short of his duty. Driving is in the most fertile level southeasterly always, between hedges
and trees, with no further prospect until finally the beautiful mountains,
painting from the north against south, to the left hand sees.

The abundance of plants - and Fruchtgehaenge over walls and hedges, trees down, is indescribable.
Pumpkins complain the roofs and hanging most wonderful cucumber to battens and trellises.

The location of the city, I could look out to the observatory about klaerste. Against North Tyrolean
mountains with snow, half hidden in clouds to the northwest in the Vicenza Connect to finally
against the nearer mountains west of Este, whose forms and depressions you can clearly see.
Southeast against a green vegetable sea without a trace of increase,
Tree to tree, bush to bush, planting to planting, countless white
houses, villas and Churches from the Greens out looking.

On the horizon I saw very clearly the Tower of Mark Venice and other
smaller towers.

Padua, 27 September.

I have finally acquired the works of Palladio, not the original edition,
in which I Vicenza seen the panels are cut in wood, but an exact copy,
even a facsimile in copper, organized by an excellent man, former
British Consul Smith in Venice.

That must be left to the British that they appreciate the good from long ago knew, and that
they have a terrific way to spread it.

On the occasion of this purchase, I entered a bookshop in Italy a very unique See added. All books
are stapled around and you can find the entire day are good Society. What of secular clergy,
nobles, artists in some degree with the literature is used here goes up and down. It requires a
book, looks up, reads and keeps to welcome as it. So I took together about half a dozen, all of
which, as I asked for the works of Palladio, to my attention were. However, the Lord of the
store the book was looking, they praise themselves, and it gave me notice of the original and
the copy, they were with the work itself and the merit of the author very well known. As for
me an architect were, they applauded me that I above all others on the studies of this Most
of the steps, he bar on the use and application of more than Vitruvius himself because he had
the old and thoroughly studied the ancients and our naeherzufuehren
Requirements sought.

I spoke at length with these friendly men learned, more has to Most memorable of the city on,
and recommended me.

Since they built it because once the Holy Church, so it is also probably
a Place where you can set up reasonable people.

The bust of Cardinal Bembo is between ionic columns, a lovely, if I may say so, drawn in by force
to Face and a mighty beard, and the inscription reads:

Petri Bembi Card. imaginem here. Guerinus Ismeni F. publico ponendam curavit ut cujus ingenii
monumental sint ejus corporis quoque memoria aeterna ne but posteritate desideretur.

The university buildings have frightens me, with all his dignity. I am glad that I had nothing
in it to learn. Such a narrow school you do not think whether you like suffer as Studiosus German
academies on the Hoerbaenken also some need. Particularly is the anatomical theater a model
of how to compress and student. In an acute, high funnel stacked the audience about each other.
You see down steeply to the narrow ground where the table stands, falls on the no light, so
the teacher by lamplight must demonstrate. The botanical garden is more like and cheerful. It can many
Plants remain the winter in the country when they put on walls or close to it are. It then builds
over the whole thing to the end of October and heats the few months. It is pleasing and instructive
to go around in a vegetation that is foreign to us. In usual Plants and in other long-familiar objects
we think last nothing, and what is contemplation without thinking? Here in this new variety to meet
me ARISE that thought always more that you develop all plant forms, perhaps from a can. By
this means it would only be possible to determine gender and species truly, which, I think, been
very arbitrarily done. At this point I'm in my botanical philosophy
stuck, and I do not know how I manage wants.

The depth and breadth of this business seems to me completely equal.

The large open space, Prato della Valle, is a very wide area, where the principal market in
June is held. Wooden booths in the middle of course not give the most advantageous Appearance,
but the inhabitants assured that we will soon here is a stone as
the Fiera Verona will see. this purpose is of course now the area
around the square in Hope, which gives a very beautiful and important
sights.

A huge oval is filled with statues all around, imagining all the famous men who have taught
and learned.

To each locals and foreigners is permitted, any Countryman or relatives to build here a Bildsaeule
of a certain size as soon as the merit of the person and the academic residence at Padua proved.

Around
the Oval goes around a moat. On the four bridges that lead up to stand Popes and Doges colossal,
Other, smaller, are of guilds, boatmen and tour set. The King of Sweden Gustavus Adolphus
let stand up because they say the same I once angehoert in Padua a lesson. The Archduke Leopold upgraded the
memory Petrarch and Galileo. The statues are made in a brave modern style, a few uebermanieriert,
some right, of course, all in the costume of their time and dignity.

The inscriptions are to commend. There is nothing tasteless and petty below.

At each university would have been very happy the thought, This is the happiest, to see because it
is very wohltut caused a complete past.

It can be a very nice place to be if they get rid of the wooden Fiera and built of stone, as it should
be the plan.

In the meeting places of a brotherhood dedicated to St. Anthony are older images, which recall
the ancient Germans, with also some of Titian, where even the great progress significantly,
is the over the Alps no one has done for himself. A moment later I saw some from the latest.
These artists have, since they do not reach the high seriousness, could the humorous hit very
happy. The beheading of John, by Piazzetta, is when the master's style is added, in this sense,
a very brave image. John kneels, hinfaltend the hands in front of him, with his right knee
against a stone. He looks to the sky. A soldier who holds him tied behind, bends around to
the side and sees him in the face, as if he was surprised about the serenity with which the man
gives himself. In the height is another who will perform the trick, but not the sword, but only
makes the gesture with their hands, like a man trying to advance
the trick wants.

The sword moves down a third of the vagina. The thought is happy when not large, striking composition
and the best effect.

In the Church of the Hermits I have seen paintings by Mantegna, one of the older painters, of which
I am surprised. What stands for in these images a sharp, safe present! From this very real,
not apparent, effektluegenden, only to the imagination speaking, but tough, pure, clear, detailed,
conscientious, tender, circumscribed Presence, which also had a bit harsher, Hustle, laborious
walking, and the following artists from what I noticed in pictures of Titian, and now has the
liveliness of their genius, the energy of their natural enlightened
by the spirit of their ancestors built up their strength, higher and
higher rise, rise from the earth and heaven, but true figures produce.

Thus, the art developed after the barbarous period.

The audience hall of the Town Hall, entitled by the law Augmentativum Salone, the most enormous
closed vessel that can not be imagined, not even in the next memory can call back. Three hundred
feet long, one hundred feet wide and up to the full length it high vaulted hundred feet wide.
So used to these people to live outdoors that the builders were too overarching a marketplace. And there
is no question that the enormous room ueberwoelbte own feeling is. It is a closed infinite, man analogue
as the stars.

This pulls us out of our own way out, that is pushing forward to the least invasive manner in our
own back.

Sun linger I also like the church of St. Justine. This vierhundertfuenfundachtzig built foot
long, relatively tall and wide, large and simple.

This evening is' I was in a corner and had my quiet contemplation,
there feels I am quite alone, for no man in the world who would have
thought in the moment I would be here myself have searched.

The Brenta Canal from Padua. Drawing of Canaletto.
Now here would be packed again once it comes to water tomorrow morning
on the Brenta continued. Today's rained, now it is back ausgehellt,
and I hope the lagoons and the the sea to behold in wedded mistress
nice day, and from her womb my Friends welcome.

On the personal note Redmond was to the full as effective as his opponent, and his speech of
that day was memorable. It was also very much more to the taste of the Liberal rank and file
than what came from their own front bench. We know very well that do not everything
that leads the stamp of virtue, actuality and real virtue is fully sustainable, and that sixty
years, or a character that could disarm a satyr, no or very little right to give themselves
much to do on a virtue too well, what perhaps no one ever been tempted to put to the test. We
doubt very much with good reason, that those who judge by Danae on a ruthless, in their place
a much less dangerous tempter as Agathon was would scratch your eyes: And if they also did,
we would probably queue to attach their virtue, which very much both the mechanical Wuerkung
unreizbarer senses, and one would have unzaertlichen heart, have been able. Our attention
is only directed at you, you charming little creatures, where the nature of the most beautiful
gifts to please the gift given - you, which they has determined to make us happy, but that one little
indiscretion in can meet and share this beautiful destination as easily in danger, the most
valuable your properties that is what the schedule to every virtue, by the tenderness your heart
itself, to be unhappy: you alone we wish to persuade, how dangerous those fancy, which is flattering
to you, the consciousness of your innocence, that always stand in your power to set the limits
of love and its demands. Would like the immortal (if different, as we hope, the innocence and goodness
of heart heavenly protector has) you want to watch the yours! Would like it to you at the right
Time warn you not to trust a tenderness which, enchanted by the Magnanimous Pleasure, the
object of her love to make happy, so easy to forget oneself can! They would like in those last
moments when watching the delightful in the to put you are able to surprise your wisdom, could you
whisper in their ears: That even a Agathon, has neither merit nor love enough to be worth the satisfaction
his wishes would cost you the rest of your heart. After she had been adopted, their Friend to
make you happy, so she made it in a way that everything he previously Pleasure and delight called,
had turned to shadow and cloud images. We remember still believed to be that kind of curiosity,
or rather a capricious invasion, the power to try her irritation at our heroes, at first the only driving
force behind the attacks was what they had done to his heart. A personal acquaintance of this busy
Projects by the taste, they found him, and the daily use, the merits Agathon, and, in most
cases, the defeat of the female virtue which not only causes but very moved, the contagious
effect of the sympathetic love, enthusiasm, which ascribes the divine Plato with the law wundertaetigsten
forces, all this Taken together, these last taste turned into love, but in the real affectionate
and violent, which has ever been. Our heroes but the honor was reserved (if It was a) its instill
a kind of love, which she, notwithstanding all that we have been discovered by her story before, nor
so much a rookie was when there was a Vestal will be in any kind of love. In short, he and he alone,
was Darzu made the to overcome reluctance to her common lover, the beautiful Hyacinthe, these
trifling Dude, (to use us to their own expression) to which lost half of their irritation went,
all contributed to what the face of love, had begun to inspire.

Most of that class of Naturkuendiger, before which keep with the Lord of Buffon, that physical
love is the best of them are, admit without hesitation that possession, or (to our expression
to further specify for ideas) the health of a such beautiful women as Danae was, in itself
considered the most perfect kind of pleasure to be concluded that our senses are capable of a truth,
which, notwithstanding a Kind of tacit agreement that they did not want to admit out loud, by all
Peoples has been recognized and at all times so general that Carneades,
Sextus, Cornelius Agrippa, and Bayle himself did not getrauet to hold
them in doubt.

Whether we equal to not have courage enough evidence against so venerable as the unanimous feeling
of the whole human race gives to assert publicly that those pleasures the love which the soul
inherent in preference to those who have: Thus not a few but be with us unanimously that a lover,
who himself has a soul, in the possession of the most beautiful Statue of flesh and blood, which
can only ever be found, even those of the modern Epicuraeern learn as much vaunted pleasure
in only a very imperfect degree of dignity, and that this only on the sensation of the heart
get that wonderful charm, which continues for been held unspeakably is to Rousseau, the stoic, stooped,
they in the forty-five of the letters of the new Heloise, to describe in a perfection which
shows very clearly what an inspiring force for the mere half-extinguished memory to the experiences
of his happy youth exercised over the soul of the Helvetic Epictetus would have to have. No doubt there
are lovers of this kind, Saint Preux and Agathon, which zukoemmt it, to do about the issue touched
a decisive pronouncement; them what be by the subtlety and vividness of her feelings just made so
skilfully by the physical, than by the tenderness of her heart, or by their internal sense for the
moral Schoene, judging from the moral pleasures of love. And how true, as of course they will
not find that passage, which the admirers of the animal Love is not understandable as a Hetruscische
words the learned, - "Oh, cut me off always these heady delights, for which I would give a
thousand lives - just give me the everything back what they do not, but a thousand times sweeter
than them "the beautiful Danae was so ingenious, as inexhaustible in the art (if different from the
one you can call it what nature and love alone can give and not without the other) to reproduce their
favors, the internal value of the same to raise the amenities of the decoration, they always to
preserve the fresh blossom of novelty, and all monotonous, everything the enchantment would have
Disolve and open access to the weariness can to remove wisely, that it or any other of her are
like the Lord of Buffon even then, would have brought his Change to thoughts of love, which
might put together all of Paris Marquisinnen would not receive him. This blissful lovers needed
to their perception according to the gods to be the same joy, nothing but their love: They spurned
all now " these amusements, which they had previously met with such a taste, her love was all
their activities and all their pleasures from: They felt anything different, they thought of
nothing else, they talked with other things, nothing, and yet they seemed to always look for the first
time to embrace the first to tell each other the first time that they loved each other, and if
they had a morning to the other nothing else done but they complained about the harshness of
the time what a life it to Best of their immortal love would have wished, charge you moments
for days. "What a condition that if he could take "- called here the Greek author.

CHAPTER XI

A bemerkenswuerdige Wuerkung of love, or of the soul mix

An old writer, certainly no one will accuse that he love for metaphysical have treated, and we
need to call only to all suspicion of what material Souls declare Plato's grilling, remove
from him, in a word, Petronius, uses an expression somewhere, which is to recognize clearly that
he has a love mingling of souls not only possible, but for such a circumstance held, had the
habit of accompanying the secrets of Liebesgoettin naturally. Jam alligata mutuo ambitu animarum
corpora quoque mixturam fecerant, says this superintendent the pleasure of the Emperor Nero,
probably in order to precisely describe the same thing that he some other place unequal nice so
put it:

Et hinc transfudimus & hinc Labellisé Errantes animas-if he himself
the full strength of this Expression seen, or attributed to him have
as much importance as we do, is a question that us (according to the
custom of most boom) very little concerned.

Enough that we find this place a hypothesis related to the location, without which, according to
our opinion, various Phenomena love can not explain well, and in virtue of which we assume that
when true lovers in certain circumstances, not (as says one of our most virtuous poet), exchange,
but preceding a real mixture of souls. How this was possible to examine Let us leave the show
cheap and profound people who are, in proud and leisure blissful seclusion from the bustle of
this sublunary world, with the useful Speculation to concern, making the way identify as that
which actuality is, without detriment to their opinions and Lehrgebaeude be possible. For us
it is enough confirmed by innumerable examples that an experience is out of all doubt that those
kind of love that Shaftesbury with the best right to a kind of enthusiasm
does, and against which Lucretius for this very reason, explained
with as much zeal, such Wuerkungen bring forth, which portrayed no
better than those niches Petro expression can be.

Agathon and Danae, which we have given rise to this note, had barely a fortnight, which of course
were only fourteen moments after the calendar of love, blissful in this State in which we leave
in the previous chapter spent,: as that soul mix in such a degree voiced by them that they are only
of a single Community Soul invigorated and excited to be appeared. Actuality was the change
in sales and their present way of being, with their previous so great that neither his Alcibiades
Danae have the priestess at Delphi to the brittle or intangible Agathon recognized would. The
fact that the speculative from a Platonist become a practical Aristippus; that he has a philosophy
that the purest bliss in contemplation of invisible beauties set against a philosophy which she
in pleasant sensations, and the pleasant sensations investigated in their next source in nature,
in our thoughts and in our hearts, reversed; that he by the gods and Halbgoettern with whom
he had previously handled only the Graces Liebesgoetter and maintained, that this Agathon, the
Formerly of its minutes from its could give an account of moments of wisdom was now "ready (we
are ashamed of it ) Say wegzutaendeln whole hours, full days in a tender drunkenness - all
this, so much of the drop is even, but most seem to understand.

But that Danae, what the sweetest and noblest of Asia, which princes and satraps to their feet
had seen, which was used to shine in the brilliant assemblies at most, a yard of all that through the
privilege of birth, the spirit, the wealth and talent worthy, was applauded for her to strive to
get to see her: "now that these contemptible Danae Look in the big world threw back, and nothing was
more pleasant than the rural simplicity, nothing more beautiful than herumzuirren in groves,
to overcome their Blumenkraenze for Schaefer, in a murmuring spring in his arm fall asleep, to be
forgotten by the world, and to forget the world - that they, for which the love of feeling
otherwise an inexhaustible been the subject of humorous mockery was here, now by the affectionate
actions of the nightingale in quiet serene nights are moved to tears - or if her lover under a shady
arbor layers was asleep for hours, motionless, in a tender amazement and sunk in the enjoyment of their
feelings, could sit next to him, without thinking, it with a kiss to wake selfish - that this student
of Hippias, which had been accustomed to find anything more ridiculous than the hope of immortality,
and this sweet dream of better worlds, which are sensitive souls, so much to weigh maintain
- that they "now, the dawning light of the moon, at Agathon's page on flowers stretched out
to be already disembodied, to get lifted in the happy valleys of Elysium thought - in the middle
of the heady joys of love, to think of graves and urns lose, then her lover affectionate look
at her breast pushing the starry sky, and all hours of the joy of the immortals, of imperishable
beauty of heaven and Worlds could imagine, and, deceived by the wishes of her boundless love,
the hope of everlasting life "now found so little excessive that it no Idea seemed natural, no
certain hope, that were indeed marvels of Love, and wonders that only the love of Agathon, only those
mingling of souls, through which both their way of thinking, ideas, tastes and inclinations melted
into each other, access roads could bring. Which won two of this mixed or lost, do we have to
decide about our readers, of which the tender part perhaps Danae is the advantage of the beautiful
award: But this It seems to us, no one so rude to deny or be so stoic, that they were happy - Felices
errore suo - happy in this sweet infatuation, which, to be that which the wise men sought for so
long and have never found anything lacking in that they (like the Greek author and amortization
are here cries with regret) can not always Curr.

SIXTH BOOK

CHAPTER ONE

A visit to the Hippias

Accidental causes were indeed gefueget that Hippias to Einicher weeks Smirna was forced to remove, and
that during his absence just fell into that time, in which the love of our hero and the beautiful Danae
reached the extreme point of its height. This fact she had left to utter master of a time
advantage to which they use of love and pleasure so well knew. None of Danae's former admirers
had made bold to disturb her solitude, and the friends with whom she Formerly had been standing
in society had to good luck all with their own affairs so much to do, that they kept no time
to worry about strangers.
 Part of that
tradition was that the Army had no politics; and as everyone knows, the man who says he has
no politics is in practice almost invariably a Conservative. In the Army, usage was at its
strongest--stronger even than at a public school; it was almost bad manners, "bad form," to
hold political opinions differing from those of your mess. Political discussion was sharply
discouraged; but this never meant that a man might not express vehemently the prevailing opinion.
On the broad facts it was inevitable that the prevailing opinion should be unfriendly to Irish
Nationalists. Irish Nationalists had taken passionately the line of opposition to the South
African War; they had been sharply critical of all the minor campaigns in which the Army had
been engaged for repression or for conquest during the whole period since Parnell began his
leadership. And the two were almost happy to call at this moment. But the mother the hero fought
now in her room alone with the deep movement in which this conversation she added. She was overwhelmed
by the thought of the suffering of her son. What might the enemies did to him in anger that he did
not pointed the right way? The hideous, they could devise. Oh, how horrible were the images you
hovered! Back and forth she went into her room and spoke softly to her son as if he heard it
could:.. "You, my good, brave, loyal son all alone so far away from me What have they done to
you? Will you still tormented and tortured? Or are you relieved of all suffering, Blessed be included
as one who is pure of heart and can see God? Oh, the terrible Uncertainty! "

At the room door was knocked, the maid said, "Mrs. Doctor, the Wife
of Behind the house is there and asks about you.

"

"They will come tomorrow."

"But it does desperately. She has bad news."

"I also have bad and you can not procure good."

The girl dared not mind more, but the stunned young woman, to comfort and waited for help, they
gave the decision on his own responsibility, "Woman Doctor at once." She knew their wives, which could
well be once gruff and repellent, but eventually they always helped. This time, too. After a
short time they came out calm and collected no sooner was you have to remember how they had
fought with him in order to be brave again. Ms Siebel, the shoemaker's wife noticed, at least
nothing: she was completely accepted by their own suffering. Your loud jammers Helene and the kids
had called.

Sobbing, she showed a Postcard, which said that her husband lay seriously
wounded in the Palatinate and, after a Visit to her longing.

"Sure he's dead," cried the young woman and did not listen to the encouraging words, which
was awarded to her from all sides.

She knew quite certain her husband was dead

"Then you do not stay in the hospital?" asked Dr. Stegemann short.

"Well then," said Ms. Siebel, "so I wanted to ask the doctor for advice,
I would be so like to have gone that night.

"

"So, you see, you think yourself that your husband is still alive.

Now you can also Wines, plus you have time on the train, and now you have to take care of your
child, what do you do with that? "

"That is just it, without my Buberl I can not go.

I have never in the nine months obvious given. I die of fear if I leave the child here! "

"So
you want to take it with further to travel?"

"No, no, that would not bear, teething and screaming so much!"

"Then we'll just look for a hotel for the baby.

Is best in the manger."

"My child in the manger?" Oh God, I die of longing for the child! "

"If you pass under all circumstances, I can not help you, too," said Mrs. Stegemann impatient.
"Either take or leave here - one of them but you must .

Do Or know a third way? "

"Oh, no - but -"

"Well, then. Be very thankful that we have a crib in which one such
a small Screamer receives friendly.

For tonight I will take the child and tomorrow in the Manger ask.

Anyway, I care for a good accommodation. "

"But I can you expect for that? It's too much!"

"In war, helps you along. Your husband is also for us stood in the rain of bullets! Thus ensure
We will also be a child. Do not you have the travel money? "

"I
hope it lasts!"

"With hopes to get at the counter is not enough.
I will look you in the course book and emergency advance something.
Go for the time being and set up everything! "

"Oh, I'm quite confused
in the head with terror!"

"That does not now. On the contrary, you
must take your thoughts together firmly so that They forget nothing.
"

The woman hurried away, Dr. Stegemann went to the kitchen girl.
This had the trial heard. "Mrs. Doctor," she said, "if only I had
allowed to talk in between. The child is not good to have that woman
is so unreasonable with him, and boil it with him at night, all the
people in hiding to tell. Woman doctor, now it's getting too much
for us! "

"Too much? Liese, in the year of the war there's no 'too
much' for me, and hopefully not you!"

"But his night's sleep but
you can at least ask."

"Do you Ask your fiance if he should say:
'When my night shooting too much, because I want my peace, '"

"If
you always think of the war! Do that only you, Mrs. Doctor!"

"But
you also have Liza? Not we together first off the jaws, and the bucket
for the pig feed imported and not rest until they gradually across
the street ? Came out With the Sharks in the
port of Guayra it seems to behave similarly. In the islands off the coast of Caracas, at Noques,
Bonaire and Curacao, they are dangerous and bloodthirsty, while Bathing not in the ports of Santa
Marta and Guayra incurred. The nation takes to the statement to simplify the phenomena of nature,
all the marvelous, and so because it believes, on the above two locations have a bishop's
blessing bestowed the sharks.

Guayra is located very peculiar: it can be compared only to Santa Cruz de Tenerife. The mountain
chain between the port and the high altitude valley of Caracas crashes almost immediately into
the lake from the city and the houses sit on a rugged cliff. Between this Wall and the lake
is hardly a 100-140 toises broad flat space. The city has 6000-8000 Residents and consists of
only two roads that run alongside each other from east to west. You is the battery on the Cerro Colorado
and mastered the works on the lake are well spent and well preserved. The sight of the place
has something in the association, melancholy, not one thinks Being on a land covered with immense
forests, but on a rocky island without earth dam and plant growth. Apart from Cabo Blanco and the
Cocosnußbäumen of Maiquetia, there the whole landscape of the sea horizon and the blue sky.
For day Suffocating heat, and usually at night. The climate of Guayra is justly hot than that
of Cumana, Porto Cabello, and Coro, because the sea breeze is weaker and by the heat which after
sunset of the vertical rock exudes the air is heated. Man made to it by the Luftbeschassenheit
of this place and all the neighboring coastal country an incorrect notion that if only the temperature,
the thermometer indicating how they wanted to compare. A hesitant, trapped in a ravine, with
bare rocks works in contact to air our bodies differently than an equally warm air in open area.
I am far from the physical cause of this difference only in the to look different electrical
charge of the air must, but note that I do something west of Guayra against Macuto to far away
from the houses and over 300 fathoms from the Gneißfelsen, several days hardly weak traces
of positive electricity to remark, during in Cumana in the same afternoon and the same with smoking wick
provided voltaic Electrometer the elder Mark beads 1-2 lines were parted. I spread me later
on the regular daily fluctuations in electrical voltage the air in the tropics, a proportion consistent
with fluctuations in temperature and with the sun which is in striking.

Awarded by a doctor for nine months in Guayra employed thermometric Observations, of which I got
insight put me in position, the climate of this port mitdem compare
Cumana, Havana and Vera Cruz.

This comparison seems even interesting than the article in the Spanish colonies and among the
sailors, this Country visit, the conversation is an inexhaustible fuel. Since in this case,
the testimony extremely easy to deceive the senses, it can be about the diversity of climates
only Numerical relations judge.

The four above-mentioned places are the hottest on the coast of the New World; their comparison
may serve to confirm the already often made by us remark that generally
only the long pause a high temperature, not the excessive heat or
the absolute amount of heat to the inhabitants of the torrid zone
is annoying.

The mean of the observations at noon of 27 June to 16 November was in Guayra 31 °, 6 hundredth
part of the quality thermometer in Cumana 29 °, 3, 28 ° in Vera Cruz,
7, in the Havana 29 °, 5 The daily deviations were not easy at the
same hour to 0 ° 0.8 to 1 °, 4th While rained the whole time it only
four times, and only 7-8 minutes.

Such is the time where yellow fever prevails in the Guayra, as in Vera Cruz and the island of
St. Vincent, commonly ceases when the daytime temperatures to 24 - goes down 25 degrees. The
mean temperature the hottest month was in Guayra about 29 °, 3, 29 ° in Cumana, 1, in Vera
Cruz 27 °, 7, in Cairo, by Rouet, 29 °, 9, in Rome 25 °, 0 Of 16 November to 19 December was
the mean temperature Guayra in only 24 ° at noon, 3, 21 ° at night, 6 About this time one suffers
from the least from the heat. I think the way that one of the thermometer (just before sunrise) not
fall below 21 ° provides, in Cumana, he sometimes falls to 21 °, 2, in Vera Cruz, 16 °, in the
Havana (only in North Wind) to 8 degrees and even lower. The mean temperature of the coldest Month
is at these four locations: 23 °, 2, 26 °, 8, 21 °, 21 °, 0; in Cairo 13 °, 4 The average of
the whole Annual temperature is, for good, carefully calculated observations about in Guayra
28 °, 1, in Cumana 27 °, 7, in Vera Cruz 25 °, 4, in the Havana 25 °, 6, Rio Janeiro 23 °,
5, in Santa Cruz de Tenerife, at 28 ° 28 'width, but what Guayra leaning on a rock wall, 21 °, 9,
Cairo 22 °, 4, Rome 15 °, 8 (19)

These observations show that Guayra is one of the hottest places on earth that the sum of the heat
which the same shall in the course of a year, is slightly larger than in Cumana, but that in the
months of November, December and January (at the same distance from
the two crossings of the sun through the zenith of the city) in the
air cools more Guayra.

If this cooling, which is far less important than the almost the same time in Vera Cruz and
in entering the Havana, are not caused by the westerly location of Guayra? The air-sea the
surface of the eye is only a mass is moved by currents, whose Limits are determined by immutable
laws. The temperature of the same changes in various ways according to the shape of countries
and oceans on which it rests. It can be divisions in different basins that empty into one another,
and of which the most turbulent (Such as the Gulf of Mexico, or between the Sierra Santa Martha and
the Gulf of Darien) noticeable effect on colds, and motion of adjacent columns of air express.
The North winds sometimes cause the southwest line of the sea of ​​the Antilles and congestion
Counter-currents, which depress the temperature in certain months up to Terra Firma out.

During my stay in Guayra knew the scourge of yellow fever, Calentura amarilla since the first
two years, the mortality was also not have been important since Coast of Caracas was far less
visited by strangers as the Havana and Vera Cruz. They had people here and there, even Creoles
and people of color, suddenly at certain irregular remittent Fevers
die look of concern by galligte complication from bleeding and other
like Symptoms some resemblance to the yellow fever seemed to have.

They were mostly people to the strenuous business of timber felling exaggerated, for example,
in the woods near the small port of Capurano or on the Gulf of Santa Fe, west of Cumana. Her
death was often in cities that were considered very healthy, not acclimatisirte Europeans in terror,
But the germs of the disease, of which they had been attacked sporadically, not planted continued.
On the coasts of Terra Firma was the real American typhoid, vomito prieto called (black vomit) and yellow
fever, as a form of disease sui generis to should be considered only in Porto Cabello, in the
Indias Cartagena and Santa Martha known where it has been observed Castelbondo in 1729 and
described. The recently landed Spaniards and the inhabitants of the valley of Caracas at that
time not afraid to stay in Guayra; they only complained about the oppressive heat, which ruled
a large part of the year. Sat down directly from the sun, so we had more than the skin and eye
infections to fear, which occur almost everywhere in the hot zone and the frequent movements
of fever and are accompanied by congestion in the head. Many preferred to the cool, but extremely
variable The hot climate of Caracas, but steady in front of Guayra; of unhealthy air in this
Port was almost no mention.

Since 1797 everything has changed. The port was also another commercial vehicles open than those
of the mother country. Sailors from colder countries than Spain, and therefore more sensitive for
the climatic influences of the hot zone, started with Guayra intercourse. Since burst the yellow
fever, typhoid fever from the infected North Americans were in the Spanish hospitals Date: one was
quickly at hand with the claim that they have introduced the disease Sey on board and they
have been broken out from Philadelphia to come to a Brigantine before
this come on the roads.

The captain of the brigantine presented in such dispute, claiming his sailors have introduced
the disease in no way, but in the port received. After the events in Cadiz in 1800, you know how hard it
is on cases to terms to come to talk to their ambiguity in the most contradictory theories
of the word appeared. The most educated people of Caracas and Guayra were about the nature of
infection in yellow fever divided opinion, as good as the doctors in Europe and the United States,
and appealed to the same American ship that prove too in order that of typhoid fever come from
outside, others that it originated in the country itself. That of the latter View were adopted,
states that the leak of the Rio de la Guayra change one of the Air Quality have brought about.
This water, which is usually not ten inches deep, swelled after sixty hours Rain in the mountains
so terrible at it fortriß tree trunks and boulders with it considerable. The water was 30-40
feet wide and 10 - 12 deep. It was thought the same thing from their underground Sey Broken pelvis,
which means the infiltration of water through loose, newly reclaimed Soil formed. Several houses
were swept away by the flood and the inundation threatened the magazines all the more danger
than the city gate through which the water alone would flow, had closed by accident. It was necessary
in the wall of the lake to a hole shoot, more than thirty people were killed and damage was estimated at
half a million Piastres struck. The standing water in the stores, cellars and vaults of the Prison liked
least miasma spread in the air, as predisposing causes the outbreak of yellow fever may have accelerated,
however, I believe that the leakage the Rio de la Guayra was the first cause of it any more than the
floods of Guadalquivir, the Xenil and Gual-Medina in the years 1800 and 1804 the terrible epidemics
have brought in Sevilla, Ecija and Malaga. I have exactly the bed of the stream of Guayra
investigated and found nothing as dry soil and blocks of mica schist and gneiss with eingesprengtem
pyrite, which come from the Sierra de Avila down, but nothing that could contaminate the air.

From the years 1797 and 1798 (same, where in Philadelphia, Santa Lucia, and St. Domingo the mortality
was so unusually large), the yellow fever in its ravages Guayra has continued; It raged not only
among the newly arrived troops from Spain, but also those who dug away from the coast in the
Llanos between Calabozo and Uritucu been So in a country which is almost as hot as Guayra, but healthy.
The latter circumstance would us even more striking if we knew that even natives of Vera Cruz,
to Home do not get the fever, often in epidemics in Havana or in the United States are victims
of it. Like the black vomit on the slope of the Mexican Mountains on the way to the Encaro
Xalapa (in 476 toises above sea level), where the oak trees with
a cool, delicious air begins to place an impassable limit, it is not
the yellow fever slightly above the mountain ridge between the valley
of Caracas Guayra and over.

This valley is long time been spared, for they shall not exceed the vomito, the yellow fever, not
the atactischen and bile fevers confused. The Cumbre and Cerro de Avila is a excellent defense for the
city of Caracas, which is somewhat higher than the Encaro, but a higher average temperature than
Xalapa.

Bonpland and my observations about the physical conditions of the cities, which periodically
be afflicted by the scourge of yellow fever, are set out elsewhere, and it is not the place, new
conjectures about the changes in the Constitution pathogonischen some cities to comment on. The
more I think on this subject, the more enigmatical I consider anything that is on the gaseous
Effluvien reference that can with such a meaningful Word 'germs of contagion' calls, and developing
in foul air caused by the Cold are destroyed, kidnap by clothes and stick to the sides of houses
should. How does one explain that in the eighteen years prior to 1794 in Vera Cruz, not a single
Case of "Vomito" occurred, although the exchange of non-Europeans and Mexicans acclimatisirten
from the interior was very strong, the sailors gave themselves the same excesses of you still
complains now, and the city was less clean than it is since the year
1800?

The sequence of pathological facts brought to its simplest expression is the following. If a port
in the torrid zone, which until now with the sailors not to be particularly notorious was unhealthy,
many arrive in colder climates people born at the same time, it shall typhoid on the American. These
people were not attacked on the route from typhoid fever, it only breaks on the spot from among
them. Here's a change in the air Constitution occurred, or has in individuals with very increased
irritability, a new form of disease developed?

Not long before his victims also requires the typhoid among others, born in southern countries
Europeans.

Divides it by infection with, it is surprising that he in the cities the tropical mainland by no
means on certain streets, holds and that the direct Contact with the patient the risk increases
as little as it reduces isolation. Sick, be made which further into the country, especially
at cooler, higher places, such as by Xalapa put the inhabitants of these places does not, whether
it be because the disease itself is not contagious, be it because the predisposing causes, which make
themselves felt on the coast, omitted here. If the temperature drops significantly, the epidemic stops
at places where they broke out, usually.

With the onset of hot weather, sometimes much earlier, it begins again on, although for several months
in the port was no sick and no ship has entered.

The American typhus appears to be confined to the coast, whether it be because those who him
bring in here to land and come here because the goods are piled on those who it is assumed, are
liable toxic miasma, or because the seashore peculiar gaseous Effluvien form. The outer appearance
of the places where the raging fever seems, often adopting a local or endemic origin, be excluded.
He has been in the Canary Islands, Bermuda, see prevail on the Lesser Antilles, on dry ground, Countries
where the climate was once very healthy. The cases of spread of yellow fever inland in the
hot zone are very ambiguous, and the disease can easily remittent
with the Being mistaken for biliary fever was.

In the temperate zone, however, where the American Typhoid occurs has decided contagious, the
disease undoubtedly far from the foreshore away, even to spread at high altitude, fresh, dry
wind-exposed places, so in Spain to Medina Sidonia, according to Carlotta and the city of Murcia.
This diversity the same disease according to the different climates, according to the totality
of the predisposing Causes, after longer or shorter duration, according to the degree of evil of
us must be very Carefully make if it is like this, the secret causes of the American typhoid
pursue. An insightful observer, in the terrible epidemic of 1802 and 1803 senior physician in the
colony of St. Domingo and the disease was in Cuba, the United States and has met in Spain, is to me the
view that the typhoid fever often contagious, but not always.

Since the yellow fever caused such terrible devastation in Guayra, it has not failed the cleanliness
of the little town to exaggerate how to Vera Cruz and the quay or threw it done from Philadelphia.
In a place that is on very dry soil, almost no Plant growth has, and where in 7 - 8 months
covered barely a few drops of rain can cause the the so-called harmful miasma not just be-ing
a lot. The streets seemed Guayra I tend to be fairly clean, except the part of the town where
the battle benches. In the road is never a beach track where accumulate decomposed algae and mollusks,
but adjacent to the east coast, the Cap Codera to, so of Windward Guayra, is extremely unhealthy.
Intermittent fever, putrid fever, and bile are used in Macuto and Caravalleda frequently, and
if from time to time the sea breeze to the west wind gives way, come
from the Catia small bay, that we will have to remember in the episode
often, despite the ramparts of Cabo Blanco, an air impregnated with
foul fumes of the coast of Guayra.

Since the excitability of the organs in the northern peoples is so much stronger than in the
southern, it is no doubt that with greater freedom of trade and greater and more intimate traffic
spread between countries with different climates, the yellow fever over the new world is. As co-operate
so many exciting causes, and individuals of different so- Organization can be exposed to the
same, possibly even new forms of disease, new moods of life forces are trained. There is this one
of the necessary evils in the wake of progressive civilization, who points out why not wish
to barbarism back, nor did he shares the view of the people that the traffic among the nations
like made an end, not to clean the ports in the colonies from the disease poison, but to resist
the penetration of the Enlightenment and to halt the development of the mind.

The north winds that direct the cold air from Canada ago in the Mexican Gulf, periodically make the
yellow fever and black vomit in Havana and Vera Cruz an end. But with the great resistance of the
temperature, as in Porto Cabello, Guayra, Nueva Barcelona and Cumana, there is reason to fear that
there would endemic typhus be when he is once occurred as a result of the strong tourism very
vicious. Fortunately, the mortality rate has decreased, since we are after in the treatment
the nature of epidemics in different years directed, and since at the various Stages of the
disease, the period of the inflammatory symptoms, and those of ataxia or Weakness, knows better
and keeps apart. It would certainly be wrong to move to deny that the newer medicine against
this terrible evil of importance already done, but the faith these services is in the colonies
did not spread far.

We hear quite common the utterance, "the doctors now know the course of the disease to explain
satisfactorily than before, but not cure them better, before you Sey hingestorben slowly without
all drugs except a Tamarindenaufguß, currently lead a more complete intervention therapies rapid
and immediate death. "

Who says so white, not quite, as they went past in the West Indies to work. From the travel of
Father Labat can be seen that at the beginning of the eighteenth century to the doctors the
Antilles, the patients did not die as calmly as one might think. Man killed at that time not
by excessive and untimely use of emetics, from China and opium, but by repeated bleedings and
excessive purging. The physicians also appeared with the effect their case so well known that, very
frankly, "at the first visit with confessor and notary public appeared at the bedside. "currently
brings it in clean, well kept Hospitals, meaning that of 100 patients only 15 - 20 and even
die a little less, but everywhere, where the patients are housed on each other too much, the
mortality rate rises by half perhaps even (as in 1802 when the French army in St. Domingo) to
three-fourths of the sick.

I found the width of Guayra 10 ° 36 '19 ", length 69 ° 26' 13". The inclination of the magnetic
needle was on 24 42 ° 20 January 1800, the declination to the northeast 4 ° 30 '35 "and the intensity
of the magnetic force = 237 vibrations.

If it is built of granite from the coast of Guayra westward, one comes between this Port which is only
a poorly protected roadstead, and the port of Porto Cabello to multiple Indentations of the country
where the ships can anchor excellent. It's the small bays Catia, los Arecife, Puerto la Cruz, Choroni,
Sienega de Ocumare, Turiamo, Burburata and Patanebo.


Some may remember how radiantly fine were those far-off days in July which led us up to the
brink of such undreamt-of happenings. On the Tuesday night I was sitting alone on the Terrace,
when Redmond came out. For once, he was in a mood to talk. His mind was full of the strangeness
and interest of that first day's Conference--a council, or parley, so momentous, so unprecedented.
It touched what was very strong in him--the historic imagination. He told me how the King had
received them all, stayed with them for some intercourse of welcome, and had been specially
marked in his courtesy to Redmond himself, who had of course never before been presented to
him. Then, he had accompanied them to the room set apart for their deliberations and had left
them with their chairman, the Speaker. When I think over Redmond's description of the Sovereign's
personality, it seems to me that he was describing one so paralysed, as it were, by anxiety
as to have lost the power of easy, genial and natural speech. But the dominant thought in his
mind did not concern King George. One figure stood out--Sir Edward Carson. Of
such attachment you can find all the hills before you come to Alcamo.

Segesta, 20 April 1787.

The temple of Segesta is never finished, and has been compared to the same place never only one paved
the perimeter, after which the columns should be derived, for even
now are the steps in some places nine to ten feet in the ground, and
there is no hill in the vicinity, able from the stones and earth would
have come down. Enormous trouble had been taken,
and Redmond told me later that a great map in relief had been constructed, showing the distribution
of Protestant and Catholic population. This brought out with astonishing vividness the contrast:
the Catholics were on the mountains and hill-tops, the Protestants down along the valley lands. 

Having in the foregoing the substantial world that opens before us, discussed have, I go on to
illuminate the individual character images that the poet on this soil, in this atmosphere presents
us and in which the general prevailing therein Spirit is individualized to summarize.

The householder, a cozy, somewhat corpulent landlord, who lives in prosperity, has not only
his guest house to the golden lion, but he is like the citizens of small towns at the same time Farmer
and he is out of the large garden and a beautiful vineyard and a wide Kornfeld. In the house
our host is a bit bossy and grumpy, to be just like home fathers . Maintain Mother, associated
for many years with him knows him but to treat and tolerate his vehement beings with equanimity.
Unsurpassed is the physiognomy of the old covenant of marriage Signed: custom links the two, their
feelings are grown old with them, so they argue each other and yet they would lose half of their
own, when one of the other would be taken from. Although they act against the son in different
ways, they are but by common ownership of an only child and often determine him with parental
chatter soon now that this girl as his bride. The old man is also been a member of the Council,
has many competent business sense to improve the management, worked to repair the buildings
and Reinlichhaltung the streets, but also with his Colleagues in the Council quarreled properly and
when he came home, had the household of the bad temper and anger brought charges. At dinner he
drinks wine according to the custom of those carrying Lands a few pints heated, it is more talkative,
but also easily provoked to anger and then talks some violent word that him in the evening, vanished when
the little noise, again regretted. After he is then treated again very easily and for the one, whereas
he declaimed fiercely to win. Odious to him as many older men weeping, wailing, the many speeches
of the women that bothers him from his sleep, threatened with the chatter, or the complaining
address, then it stands up angrily and walks into his bedroom to get to bed. His consent to his
son's marriage, he is only half-joking because he in opposite case, only defiance and tears foresees.
A certain gravitas and stately bourgeois Attitude is innate in him, he walks slowly out of church
on Sundays, so that the school children is stimulated by teasingly. His son, Hermann, he has
always to blame, as so often Fathers do if they become morose, he would have it differently and understand
its nature not, he would like to see Vätereitelkeit aspire to higher professional and wishes him
finer manners, garment teres behavior; at all he holds himself like Hermann Dorothea tells
to external and delicate manners and he boasts of himself, that he as a good landlord each character
on the stage and know to treat. He will, therefore, no peasant girl to be a daughter into the
house, it is to play the piano and the most beautiful and best People should gather together on Sundays
with him. With all these characteristics of the father is still Nuclear-like and docile nature.
The misery of the displaced touches him and he gives generously to the His own way to alleviate
suffering. So he granted the poet the epithet: the human Landlord. And her new daughter, so her
status and the poverty of his favorite wishes contrary, he nonetheless embraced warmly, hiding
the tears.

The mother is a real woman, a real bourgeois housewife. The house, the cellar, the garden are the realm
where it holds sway busy.

Full concerns her son seeking, it is once through the garden and does the same in passing some caterpillars
of cabbage and provides the supports the fruit trees cope. As a woman it is more easily agitated
than the father, more mobile than this in his middle-gravity. The tears you come, as the poet
says, the leichtlich Eye. Although it is essentially the root followed, in the thinking of the
father and speaks, it has nevertheless often as wife and mother the words rapid and violent opinions
about ease with which that can be carried away in the heat. It stands as a true mother with
her Son in a lively mind alliance, this never leaves the house, he tells her because they tend
to to him when he is suffering weeps with him, guessing his thoughts, his confessions and receives
scolds the father, if that is impatient of their Hermann. She and the father remembered vividly
of Goethe's parents, because even in Goethe's house was the witty indulgent mother often the
secret ally of the brilliant son when his poetic nature with the pedantic Gravity of the father
was in opposition. Hermann Wilhelm Meister also stood with his Love inwardly, with its theater and
its artistic ideals thirst of the old merchants Master distant, but close to the mother through
trust and understanding.

Hermann the German's son shows us the nature, the German national
characteristic in a masterly Individual image embodies.

Hermann is faithful and industrious, dignified and efficient. He is not allowed, on the mind with a quick
glance, the things from the depths of the soul's thoughts easy to raise to the surface with energetic
people and will instantly forcing institutions to its intent and understanding. Presence of mind,
he goes out, the Weapon of the list is denied him, the finer and more intelligent, but often
trivial and verbrausende easy pleasure of life is unknown to him. Hermann is not bubbling with
wit and Spirit sparks, which, after a moment shone sink, going out in ashes, his View is slow,
but if it is always the truth of a pure and intimate Mind accordingly. Hermann thinks more
than he speaks, you can rely on him, both on his mind than on his word as to the work he does.
In Society he is stupid, his appearance, his clothes are a little boorish, heartless world, people
will it ridiculous and against the Savior, he is unarmed. The school went with him Slowly, the father
complained that Hermann was the lowest ever, and he could not very volatile record to be picked
up by a new wash away the feeling again, but was some of it acquired, it was certainly his nature
and his property forever. Good-natured and slow, he was much liked by his classmates, only
if its Inner self, his spirit came into play, such as if his father, about the deliberate Response
and large-flowered gown was spotted, then his anger and blind rage, and awoke cut it to himself,
for now, if a cumbersome nature as the once outraged Hermanns is, so she throws down relentlessly
as an element of all barriers in front of him. Fluid and speak eloquently Hermann was not true:
Your tongue faltered always says the father. More better get him farm work in the fields, in vineyards,
in the garden. The Stallions in the stable, he worried himself, he has brought up her and trusted
her to no other, right a rural boy, so his friends are always the horses. He lives in the
chamber in Upstairs is early in the morning with the sun and meet a few hours sleep healthy
him. In general he is healthy, has strong nerves and a high growth. He is not sentimental consumptive
Jean Paul African hero, has a longing for the stars. Of artificial Stimuli and exotic fantasies
he knows nothing: he is the son of peaceful citizens, not for the the extensive and inclusive,
not for the government, war, science, honor is determined, but for recurring transactions
of agriculture and a dense and orderly learning Family life. Although he will again retire
from the usual living conditions and in go to war, not because it is too tight or that this fact,
the inner urge promises to breastfeed, but precisely because in his domestic life by design Opposition
has been disturbed, and because the love that Seelenbezwingerin him, too, for the moment brought
out of balance. to parade in uniform and as a soldier in front of the girls to strut, this
vanity it does not occur. At the close of the poem, he speaks a unwavering patriotism of, but
only because the recovered possession of a beloved wife it has complied with the sensation of
property generally, but now is my my than ever he exclaims, and it is the courage of the militia
man, the National Guard, who for the stock possession can also die, and when the danger has
passed rapidly to its sphere of Private acquisition returns. For all the limitations of sight and
needs, Hermann pure of mind, Immaculate Heart, full of tenderness to the parents. He is an undisturbed
Natural product and is a sure instinct leads him to its right, under which he soon realizes
and holds as his own. He has also found Dorotheen detected after a few moments and in one day, his
marriage is decided. The unwieldy and limited his being is only the outer opposite side of the inner
solidity and integrity of his mind. Also the way that expresses his love for Dorothea is right,
not to the remainder of its nature and the life circle whose product it is. Not an ideal illusion
of fantasy, the youth at the feet of the girl crashes, no sky-high exultation, lost to death,
but in quiet Chamber he felt lonely, and the garden, the field, the shops are deserted him released;
the father is old, the have multiplied, creating work for whom, and? He lacked the wife, He
longed for a life partner. In such a mood he met Dorothea and finds rapidly that it is destined
for him, warm affection binds him so strongly that he wants to leave home if he is denied the
girl, and is a sure guarantee for lasting domestic happiness. Thus we have in Hermann love only
the train of morality, the shape want to win, the quiet Tie on a civil marriage covenant,
not the fantastic overvoltage a poetic youth passion, the flame, each consuming it around
the object taken burns, the more likely it is void in this possession.

By the group of said three persons, the family is complete. connect to you two Family friends,
the priest and the pharmacist in the town. Both are simple to form the Superior middle-class family,
the pastor of the more idealistic, pharmacists from the realistic Page. But be recognized by
the priest as an educated through scientific studies a real spirit of superiority, while the pharmacist's
profession adequately between the scholars and technicians hovering in the middle, occupying
half a position and more the expression of higher wisdom is, as it really has.

The pastor is the nominee of theology after the completion of university
studies, as wont to happen, tutor of a young Baron's been and gone
with him to Strasbourg, where the pupil should study likely.

As a tutor he has the world in higher Circles know learned something he understands, for example,
the urbane art a car from the box to guide; he is not at all limited and peasant village priest.
It represents the citizens living close to the small town look the other mind, the deeper insight. Of
course He knows his subject, the sacred history, but he is well versed in the profane. His
views carry the stamp of conciliatory and mild amusement, by human Tolerance is the pride of the
city, in everything he says, expresses noble wisdom from, he always has the higher and reasonable,
points to the internal order that the blind Bustle of the world lies
at the bottom, he finds out all the good and suggests the moral as
the only Appropriate and of Fortune.

No rigor, no religious bigotry, clericalism is not in him. Even as a charity he is clear: in
the village among the displaced He has quickly given away his silver money and even handed the judge
a piece of gold one, to have it come through this to the poor. The poet calls him a young man,
closer the man.

The character of the pharmacist is very finely drawn by the poet, so that it is difficult is to
grasp this simple and yet so logical structure. Do we have a priest in the seriously friendly
man in his moral principles in education and in every mature Action will focus, then moved
toward the pharmacist busy and restless and ago, and he can not keep up with the speech itself,
but each takes the floor at the mouth away, but in his lively, he shoots at the goal and over,
and he is active and makes itself on his cunning and shrewdness to something good, and he knows
how to make general observations and gives himself a lot of experience, but he is too restless
spirit, but that his views the true and the root of human life had taken, and often, the pastor
restore the right perspective. He is a good-natured, obliging ordinary person, who is happy when
he applies a handling, with aspirations and concerns, which he shares with the large amount
of realistic practical people.

Patience is his thing not. As a boy, he tells us himself, he was once, as the car that it
becomes the Linden should lead to long forthcoming, the patient considered fully, and he ran
like a weasel hither and thither, up and down stairs and tingled from the window to the door
The hands him, he scratched the tables, stamped his feet and crying was close to him. Because
it led the father to the window and pointed to the opposite shop of the carpenter, the coffin
making, in which we must put all of us soon enough, whether we be patient or impatient. Since
then, he says, he became impatient torn up by the roots, but he is mistaken with this assertion.
While it is understood in the village, the priest in conversation with the judge and this conversation
takes a more general turn drives the nimble man continued unrest, He runs away and peeking through
hedges and gardens for the unknown. After finally both reasonable inquiry about the girl recovered,
and by now come back to Herman, he speaks from a distance the waiting ones, he can not restrain
himself. As Hermann at an earlier point of the poem kundthut his decision to choose for his
wife Dorothea, agrees with the priest at once joyful, but the pharmacist advised to check first
the girl, whether the groom was worth it. The same vulgar wisdom he shows in the moment where
the pastor for the first time and saw Dorothea, moved by their shape, beauty her soul is at once
certain: the bill is not to be trusted, as he warns, we should of No one judge until you've eaten
with him a bushel of salt. Right at the beginning, from where he Sight of the train the refugees
have returned, he calls everyone happy, not the woman and child at home in such dangerous times,
because such a fate can not Serious harm and his package is put together easily. I myself,
he says, the treasures aside packed to go forth without loss of time can, although I collected
Herbs and roots leave reluctantly. Our pharmacist is not married and so in fact He makes the
impression of an old bachelor who has never taken legal firm footing. Where at the close the involvement
of the poem is resolved happily and the rest are lost in sensation, the pharmacist tends immediately
with blessings. A comic role he plays where he to sit in the car, which directs the priest:
he hesitates and is located throughout the Ride like a man who is always willing to setting in jumping.
Something funny is his Beneficence: he has no money on him, he pulls at least the stitched
leather Purse, opens it gracefully and inform the foreign judges, the few whistles Knaster,
the praise he is not lacking. The poet has the whole character with a slight amiable Irony treated,
but nowhere emerges strongly, but to speak only in a faint smile of the singer's narrative manifests.

When
we mentioned the judge, who like his father, the children, like a patriarch of ancient oriental
a drawing master, the crowd of fugitives with wisdom and earnestness worthy guides and admonished,
by the main characters only one is left: Dorothea. Dorothea is a strong village girl in the
dress, as described in two places of the poem, with blue, pleated skirt, red bib, a black corset
and a neck brace. It washes and contends that it drives the oxen of the wagon, she gets some
water and found employment as a maid. You has also, as says the mayor, even their innocence
and their companions against penetrating War mob defended by quick-cut body force to the first floor
and the others in the flight to flight. This shows their determination. It lacks, however, not
so to tenderness of feeling, for not only is it helpful to know the woman and the Children
to bind themselves, and has also previously with loving sacrifice an old relative, where they
lived until his death maintained, and although her eye, as Hermann says more sense looks as
love, she has quickly taken a gentle slope to the youth and the last scene reveals to us under
the cover of the powerful Magdgestalt the tenderest noble soul and a true virgin delicacy. Peculiarly
female is when Dorothy is resistant and short handling of Hermann acts, such as where he wants her off the
water jug and she does not admit. Dorothy is a girl from the western border of Germany, for
example from the Electorate of Trier and Mainz, it melts in the German
mind with the fine clock and minds of the French neighbors.

Rarely they will be converts of sentimental emotion and also where it leaves the feeling, it loses
the freedom to look beyond the moment and what he calls, do not.
 "England,"
he said, "might inspire confidence by restoring it. She could bestow confidence by immediately
arming and equipping the Irish Volunteers. The Volunteers, properly armed and equipped, could
preserve Ireland from invasion, and England would be free to utilize her 'army of occupation'
for the defence of her own shores."

Redmond could not have seen either of these letters, but those two trains of thought were blended
in his speech--which was less a speech than a supreme action. It was the utterance of a man
who has a vision and who, acting in the light of it, seeks to embody the vision in a living
reality.

Mr. Bonar Law followed Sir Edward Grey with a few brief sentences of whole-hearted support.
Then Redmond rose, and a hush of expectation went over the house. One would think Wherefore, numerous Aerolites
would have between Africa and South America westward from the islands of Cape Verd Being dropped
into the sea. But how is it that the fire balls in Labrador and Cumana had different directions,
not at the latter place to the north were seen, as in Cayenne? Man nothing can be too careful with
an assumption for which there still out on a nice, had far other observations made lying areas
is missing. I would almost believe that the Chaymas in Cumana have not seen the same fire-balls,
like the Portuguese in Brazil and the missionaries in Labrador, but there is always doubt (and
this fact seems very strange to me), that from the new world between 46 ° and 82 ° of longitude,
equator up to 64 ° of latitude in the same hours, a tremendous amount of fireballs and shooting
stars has been seen. On a surface area of ​​921.000 square miles flew the meteors everywhere the
same glossy.

Physicists (Benzenberg and fire), which in recent times about the shooting stars and their Parallaxes
have so made painstaking studies consider them as meteors, which the MAXIMUM our air district,
the space between the region of the northern lights and the lightest clouds (15) members. Some
of those have been studied, only 14.000 toises, about 5 miles were high, and the highest do
not seem to be-ing over 30 miles high. You often have more than 100 feet in diameter and its
speed is so important that in few seconds to travel two miles. Which have been measured, the
nearly vertical or at an angle of 50 degrees from bottom to top were running. That is very
strange circumstance one has concluded that the meteors are no meteoric stones, which, after long
same celestial bodies dragged through the room, burst into flames when they happen in our atmosphere
fallen, and falling to the ground.

What is the origin may now also have this fire meteors, it is difficult, in a Region, where
the air is diluted as in a vacuum of our air pumps, where (in 25.000 Toises height), the mercury
in the barometer would not line up 12 / 1000, a sudden to think inflammation. However, we know
the up to 3 / 1000 is shaped mixture of atmospheric Air only up to 3000 toises high, and consequently do
not have the highest layer of clouds flockigten up. One might suppose, with the earliest changes
of the globe Seyen gases that we remained completely unknown until now, has gone up in the
air region where the shooting stars move, but from accurate experiments with mixtures of gases of
various specifically Weight shows that a top of the lower layers entirely different layer
of air unthinkable. The gaseous body mingle and interpenetrate each other at the slightest Movement,
and over the centuries, would have to produce a uniform mixture, if you do not want to bring a
repulsive force comes into play, from us at any of the known Body is to notice anything. If one
takes us further in the inaccessible regions of the fire meteors the shooting stars, the fireballs
and the Northern Lights peculiar-shaped air-liquid to, how do you explain that does not ignite the
entire layer of the liquid since, Rather that take gas leaks, like the clouds, a limited space?
How can we without the formation of soot, the unequal charge are capable of an electrical Discharge,
think, and in air, the mean temperature, perhaps 250 degrees below zero amounts, and thinned
so that the compression of the electrical beat so well as heat can release no more? Those difficulties
are for the most part eliminated if If the shooting stars in the direction in which they move,
as a body with a solid core, as cosmic * * (the sky outside our room air group members), not
as telluric * * could consider (only members of our planet) phenomena.

Did the meteors in Cumana, only the height at which the meteors move usually was able meteors at the
same points, which lie 310 miles apart, on the horizon be.

How very 12th on that now must November in the higher regions ing the tendency was to increase
combustion, so that four billion hours of could fall fireballs and shooting stars, which at the
equator, in Greenland and in Germany were seen! Benzenberg makes the astute observation that
the same cause, from the the phenomenon occurs more frequently, and on the size of the meteors
and their light intensity influence expressed. In Europe you can see at night, fall in which most
shooting stars, always very very bright in very small. It is by the periodic appearance more
interesting. In some months, had fire in our temperate strip of land only 60-80 Shooting stars
in the night, in others the number is rising to 2000. One sees a diameter of Sirius or Jupiter,
we can certainly expect that after this brilliant Meteor are many smaller ones. Traps in one night
many shooting stars, so it is highly likely that lasts several weeks Diess. In the higher regions,
on the extreme Border, where gravity and centrifugal force balance seems to periodically a special
entering disposition to the formation of fire balls, falling stars and northern lights. Depends
the periodicity of this important publication on the condition of the atmosphere, or of something
the atmosphere from outside belongs, as the Earth moves away in the ecliptic? Of all we know
just as much as the time of Anaxagoras.

As for the shooting stars for themselves, they seem to me, in my own experience, Being among
the tropics frequently than in temperate areas of land on the continents and in certain coastal
frequently than in the open sea.

I wonder if the radiating surface of the Globe, and the electric charge of the deep regions of
the air, according to the nature of Soil and to the position of the continents and oceans will
change their influences in even higher To comment where there is eternal winter? That in some
seasons and some dry, loose plant Levels of the sky also does not show the smallest clouds seem
to indicate that this Influence at least up to 500-600 fathoms claims. In one out of volcanoes
staring country is on the plateau of the Andes, thirty years ago, a similar phenomenon as at the 12th
November was observed. We saw in the city of Quito at only one piece of Sky, rising above the volcano
Cayambe, shooting stars in such numbers that it was thought that the whole mountain standing
in the fire. This extraordinary spectacle lasted over an hour; the people ran together at the
level of Exido, where a magnificent view of the highest has peaks of the Cordilleras. Already
a procession was about to the Monastery of San Francisco break, as it became clear that the fire
stemmed from fire on the horizon meteor, up to a height of 12 to 15 degrees in all directions,
shot through the sky.

------------------

                            14 In Santa Fe de Bogota, Popayan and in the southern hemisphere in
Quito and Peru, I met no one who saw the meteor would have.

   Maybe that was just the state of the atmosphere, which in this Western
      countries is very variable, to blame.
      
      15 According to my observations on the back of the Andes more than
2700 Toises above sea level on the * sheep * or small, white, curly
clouds I estimated the height of them sometimes to more than [] toises
above the coast.

   
      
      CHAPTER XI.
      

Travel from Cumana to Guayra. - Morro de Nueva Barcelona. - The Codera
promontory. - Off Guayra to Caracas.

    
            

On 18 November by eight clock in the evening we were under sail along to to the coast of Cumana
to drive the port of Guayra, where the people of Venezuela for the greater part of their Products
run. There are only 60 miles and the crossing usually lasts only 36 - 40 hours. The small coastal
vessels are wind and currents since well, the latter cut more or lesser extent from east to west
along toward the coast of Terra Firma, especially between the foothills and Chichibacoa pariah.
The land route from Cumana to New Barcelona and from there Caracas is pretty much the same
state as before the discovery of America. It has with all the obstacles of a marshy soil,
scattered boulders and a proliferating vegetation to fight, and we must sleep under the stars,
the valleys of the Unare, and Tuy Capaya run through and set of streams, the rapidly because
of the proximity of the mountainous swell. Among these obstacles is the danger that the traveler
is because the country is very unhealthy is particularly the lowlands between the coast range
and the sea shore of the Bay of Mochima to Coro. The latter city, however, by an immense forest
of opuntia and prickly cactus surrounded, owes the same Cumana, its healthy climate of the arid
soil and the lack of rain.

It sometimes with quite the way to the land to sea before, if you go back from Caracas to Cumana
and do not like driving against the flow. The Courier of Caracas needs to nine days, and we often
saw people who joined him in Cumana miasmatic ill with typhoid fever and Fevers arrive. The
tree, whose bark (16) an excellent remedy for this fever is growing in the same valleys, on
the edge of the same forests, which are so dangerous fumes are. The ill passenger stops in a hut,
whose inhabitants know nothing about that the trees that shade around the valleys, the fever
distribute.

When we went to the lake from Cumana to Guayra was our plan: we wanted to end the rainy season remain
in Caracas, and from there on the great plains or Llanos * * in the missions the Orinoco River
travel, this enormous power to the south of the cataracts to the Rio Negro and go up to the border
of Brazil and the capital of Spanish Guiana, commonly because of their location * * Angostura,
ie bottleneck called, go back to Cumana. As long as we to this journey of 700 miles, of which we had
to make two-thirds of the Canoe, need would be allowed to determine impossible. On the coast are
known only near the piece of the Orinoco at its mouth, with the missions only, there is no trade.
What side of the Llanos is located, for the inhabitants of Cumana and Caracas unknown land. Some
believe the grass-covered plains of Calabozo are continued eight hundred miles to the south and
consistent with the stitching or pampas of Buenos Ayres connection, others hold because of
the high mortality among the troops Iturriagas and Solano on her train to the Orinoco all
the land south of the cataracts of the Office of extremely unhealthy. In a country where so
little travel, one finds pleasure in it, the stranger against the dangers of climate, of wild
animals and humans threaten to exaggerate. We were at this deterrent which the colonists with naive
and well-intentioned bring openness in implementation, not yet used, still we held on to the
once formed resolution. We were able to Sympathy and support of the governor of the province,
Don Vicente Emparan, leave us, as to the recommendations of the Franciscan monks, who, on the
banks of the Orinoco, the actual Masters.

Fortunately for us this was a priest, Juan Gonzales, just in Cumana. This young Monk was a lay
brother, but very intelligent, educated, full of life and courage. Shortly after his arrival
on the coast he had on the occasion of the election of a new Gardians Emissions from Piritu,
said in the monastery at Nueva Barcelona always great excitement prevails, the Displeasure of
his superiors drawn. The victorious party exercised a vigorous reaction, which the lay brother could
not escape. He was sent to Esmeralda, in the last mission on the upper Orinoco, notoriously vicious
by the myriad insects, which year after year fill the air. Fray Juan Gonzales was with the
woods between the cataracts and the sources the Orinoco completely known. Another revolution in the
Republican rule of the monks had it for several years brought back to the coast and he stood
by his superiors in deserved respect. He confirmed us in our desire, the bifurcation of the
vielbestrittene to explore Orinoco, he imparted to us good advice for maintaining health in
an Climate in which he himself suffered so long in intermittent fevers. We had the pleasure of
the Return from the Rio Negro, Brother Juan, Nueva Barcelona again to be found. Since it is in
the Havana wanted to embark to Cadiz, he took it pleased, a part of our plant collections and
to bring our insects from the Orinoco to Europe, but the collections were unfortunately with him to the
lake bottom. The excellent young man who was very fed than us, and its courageous zeal of
the missions of his order would have great services can afford to come in 1801 killed in a storm
off the African coast life.

The vehicle in which we drove from Cumana to Guayra (17), was one of those for trade be used on
the coasts and the West Indies. You are thirty feet long and not have more than three feet above
the water board, they are without hood and load usually 200-250 Cwt. Although the lake from
the foothills to Codera Guayra is very restless and a tremendous triangular sail out what in the gusts
of wind coming out from the mountain gorges, is not without risk, one has for thirty years,
no example, that one of these vehicles would have fallen on the passage from Cumana to the coast
of Caracas. The Indian skipper are so articulate, that even with her frequent trips from Cumana
to Guadeloupe or Danish islands that are surrounded by cliffs, a shipwreck is a rarity. This
120-150 miles of driving on the open sea, where one sees no longer coast, on open vehicles,
after the manner of the ancients, without observing the sun's altitude, without charts, almost
always made without compass. The Indian tax man is directed at night after the North Star, by day
after the course of the sun and the wind, which, as it requires changes, rare. I have seen
Guayqueries and navigators of the stamp of zambos that the polar star for to find the line between
and the Great Bear knew, and I felt as controlled not only to the polar star itself than to
that line. One wonders how they Land as soon come to face properly the island of Guadeloupe
and Santa Cruz and Porto Rico found, but in balancing the deviations from Curs they are not
always as happy. As the vehicles approached the land below the wind, they come to the east
against the wind and Flow is very difficult to continue. In times of war now have the sailors
for their ignorance and pay for their ignorance of the use of the octants difficult, because
the cross Caper just at the foothills, which the vehicles of Terra Firma, when they strayed from
their Curs, need to get in sight, be-ing their way to certain.

We drove quickly down the little river Manzanares, the curves denote
Cocosbäume, such as poplars and willows in our ancient climates. shone
on the adjoining arid beaches the thorn bushes that show during the
day only staubigte leaves, because it was still night, many thousand
light sparks.

The luminous insects reproduce in the rainy season. It will be under the tropics of the play
is not tired when this back and forth twitching reddish lights in the clear water and reflect
their images and the stars in the sky under each swarm.

We parted from the shore of Cumana, as we had long lived there. It was the first country We
enter the bar under a sky, for which I am since my earliest youth had longed. The impression of
nature in the Indian climate is so powerful and great that spent
one after just a few months stay in it for many years to have said.

In Europe , the northern countries and the inhabitants of the valley even after a short visit to
a similar sensation, when the Gulf of Naples, from the delicious country between Tivoli and
Lake Nemi, or eliminated from the wild, grand scenery of the Alps and the Pyrenees. Everywhere
in the temperate zone shows the physiognomy of the plant world only a few contrasts. The spruce
and oak trees on the mountains of Sweden have a family resemblance to those under the beautiful Sky of
Greece and Italy are growing. In the tropics, however, in the lowlands of both India Everything
seems new and wonderful in nature. Open field, in forest thicket almost nowhere an image that
reminds us of Europe, because of the vegetation depends on the character of a landscape as they
affect our imagination by their mass, by the contrast between their Entities and the brilliance
of their colors. The newer and more powerful the impressions are, the more delete it from earlier
impressions, and by the strength they get the impression of the period. I appeal to all those
with more sense of the beauties of nature as the stimuli of social life have lived long in the hot zone.
The first country to enter the sole of her foot, as it remains dear and memorable to them throughout
their lives! Often, and the highest age suggests them in a dark longing feeling to see it
yet again. Cumana and his staubigter Ground are still far more often in my mind's eye than all the
wonders of the Cordilleras. Under the beautiful southern sky itself is a country almost without
irritating plant growth by the light and the magic of playing in the air colors. The sun illuminates
not alone it colors the objects surrounding them with a light fragrance that without the transparency
to reduce the air, the harmonious colors makes, reduces the effects of light and the nature pours
a rest, which is reflected in our soul. To the enormous influence of the Landscapes of the
Indies, to understand themselves scantily wooded coastlines remember one was that of Naples the
equator to the sky in the relationship gets better, as of Provence to southern Italy.

We were running during the flood on the bar, which of the small Manzanares at its mouth has formed.
The evening sea breeze gently swelled the waters of the Gulf of Cariaco. The moon had not yet
risen, but the part of the Milky Way between the feet of the Centaurs and the constellation
of Sagittarius seemed a silver shimmer on the sea surface to . Throw The white rock on which
the castle of San Antonio has emerged, sometimes between the high
tops of coconut palms on the shore.

Not long before we saw the coast only of the scattered light fishermen final Guayqueries: because
we felt twice the thrill of the country and the painful feeling that they must part. Five months
ago we had entered this shore as a newly discovered land, strangers in the neighborhood, in
every bush, in any moist, shady place only with hesitation putting his foot. Now that the coast
vanished from our sight, lived memories in us who thought ourselves very old. Ground Gebirgsart,
family, neighbors, with everything we had become familiar.

We headed first for North-North-West, by zuhielten on the peninsula of Araya, then We drove thirty
miles to the west and west-southwest. Near the bank, the promontory Arenas surrounds and sweeps away
to the mountain of oil wells Maniquarez, we had a lively Drama, like the strong phosphorescence
of the sea in this climate, as frequently. Swarms of Tummler moved to our vehicle. Its floated
fifteen or sixteen in the same distance from each other.

If you type in the phrase, with its large fins on the Water area proposed, there was a strong
ray of light: it was as a fire would break the sea depth. Each swarm was in cutting through the
waves a light stripe behind back. This, we noticed the more so as the waves also not lit. Since
the Stroke of an oar and the impact of the ship that night gave only weak spark, so must be
assumed that the strong light that emanated from the Tummler not alone stemmed from the impact
of their fins, but also by the jelly-like material that their And the body of a surge of the
waves is rubbed off.

At midnight we found ourselves naked between the rock islands, like the bastions of the sea
off it, it is the group of Caracas and Chimanaseilande. The moon had risen and shone the rugged,
barren, strangely shaped rocks. forms between Cumana and Cap Codera the sea is now a sort of
bay, a slight inflection in the country. The islands Picua, Picuita, Caracas and Boracha appear
as ruins of the old coast, from the same Bordones in the Direction
from east to west ran.

Behind these islands are the breasts and Mochima Santa Fe, will undoubtedly one day and bustling
harbors. The torn country, the broken, plummeting layers, everything points to go on a huge transformation,
maybe the same, what the chain of primitive mountains blown up and the mica-slate of Araya and
the island of Margarita gneiss has torn away from the promontory Codera. Several of these islands
can be seen in Cumana of the flat roofs, and there show in them owing to the different temperature
the stored one above the other layers of the atmosphere, the strangest displacements and mirages.
These rocks are scarcely more than 150 toises high, but at night by moonlight, they seem to
very considerable height.

One may wonder, islands, called the Caracas, so far from the city of that name, to find the
coast Cumanagotos over, but Caracas meant in the first period after the Conquest of nowhere,
but an Indian tribe. The groups of extremely gebirgigten islands, where we were going close, deprived
us of the wind, and drove with us narrow sunrise Threads of water in the flow on Boracha to the
largest of the islands.

Since the almost vertical cliff Go up, then falls steeply from the sea bed and on another
trip I've frigates seen here moored so close that they almost pushed ashore. The air temperature
was significantly increased, since we were going between the islands of the small archipelago.
The rock is heated during the day and at night is the heat absorbed by radiation in part again.
The more the sun rose over the horizon, the farther flung the torn their huge mountains Shadow on
the sea surface. The flamingos began their fishing everywhere, where only ran along a bay in
front of the limestone, a narrow beach. All these islands are now entirely uninhabited, but living
on one of Caracas wild, brown, very large, goat-footed with - as our helmsman assured - very
palatable flesh.
 Nor was he alone
in his rejoicing. The host at that meeting was a great Irish landlord, Colonel Sir Hutcheson
Poe. He, upon reading Redmond's speech of August 4th had written to the Press saying that since
he was too old to serve he was taking steps to arm and equip a hundred National Volunteers.
Now, in Redmond's presence, addressing a body of the Volunteers, he told them what he thought
of Redmond's action.

"That five minutes' speech did more to compose our differences, to unite all Irishmen in a
bond of friendship and good will, than could have been accomplished by years of agitation or
by a conference, however well-intentioned it might be."

That was a notable tribute from one of the eight men who formed the historic Land Conference
of 1902; and Sir Hutcheson Poe was not the man to rest on complimentary expressions. He set
to work at once to promote a memorial praying for joint action between Ulster and the Irish
Volunteers and for settlement of the political question which alone prevented such action.

Unhappily, this was not easy of accomplishment. When the House reassembled after its adjournment
of a fortnight, negotiations were resumed, with the result that on August 31st the Prime Minister
asked for a fresh adjournment for ten days, at the end of which time the Government hoped to
be able to produce satisfactory proposals as to the Irish and Welsh Bills. The composition is extremely beautiful, as it would have to a large oil painting Effectively
do. A drawing of this, we must have needed in Weimar. Then he thinks at a meeting of the old,
wise men and licensed, where he will take the opportunity to represent actual figures. With
the greatest enthusiasm, but he sketched on a Battle, where two parties cavalry attack each
other with equal fury, and although at a point where they are separated by a vast gorge, over
which the horse with Largest effort can hinuebersetzen. On defense is not to think here. Kuehner
Attack, wild decision to make or fall into the abyss. This image will give him the opportunity
To give the knowledge he has of the horse, the construction and movement, a very to develop significant
way.

These pictures then and a number of following and switched it wishes by a few Poems linked, which
served to explain what it represents, and which he, however confer again by certain body shapes
and charm.

The thought is nice, of course, only one had several years to be together,
to such a Carry out works.

7 November.

The Lodges of Raphael and the great paintings of the "School of Athens", etc. have I only just
once seen, and there it is as if Homer from a partially extinguished, damaged Manuscript should
study out. The Pleasure of the first impression is imperfect, only when one has little by little
rather durchgesehn and studied, is quite the pleasure.

On receive, the most Deckenstuecke of the lodges, to present the
biblical stories, painted fresh as yesterday, although few of Raphael's
own hand, but it does admirably according to his drawings and under
his supervision.

7 November.

I sometimes had in earlier times the strange whim that I eagerly wished, well-informed by a
man from an art - and historically knowledgeable Englishman led to Italy to be, and now has
it all, however, made more beautiful than I could have imagined.

Tischbein lived here so long as my sincere friend, he lived here
with the desire to show me Rome, our relationship is old by letters,
by re- Present, where would have a value guide can appear to me?

Is my time only restricted, then I shall enjoy the opportunity and
learn.

And with all the I see ahead, wish that I will arrive, when I leave.

The 8th November.

My strange and perhaps whimsical half incognito bring me advantages I have in could not think.
Since everyone obliged to ignore who I was, and so no one may speak of me with me, so will the people
have no choice but to be to speak for himself or subjects which are interesting, because I
learn now inconvenient, bringing everyone busy, or what some remarkable results and shows. Councilor
Reiffenstein was also found in the cricket, but as he's name, I had
assumed, do not suffer from a particular cause was, he baronisierte
me quickly, and my name is now the Baron against Rondanini over, so
I am known enough more so than the Italians benennet people only after
the first name or nickname.

Enough, I have my will and escape the endless inconvenience of me
and my Work must be accountable to.

9 November.

Sometimes I'm quiet as a moment and look over the highest peaks of the already Obtained. I love
to look back to Venice, to that great existence, the womb of the sea, like Pallas from the head
of Jupiter's sprung. Here I was, the Rotonda, the external as well as the inner, led a joyful worship
of their grandeur. In St. Peter I learn to understand how the art
lift both the nature all comparisons of measures can.

And so I was hinausgerueckt Apollo Belvedere from reality.

For as by giving those buildings the most correct drawings no idea,
so here it is with the original of marble against the Gipsabguesse,
that I have known but very nice buffet.

The Apollo of Belvedere. Drawing by Bouchardon.

10, November 1786th
I now live here with a clarity and calm that I had no long feeling.
My practice of seeing all things as they are, and to read, my loyalty,
the eye to be light to leave, my total alienation from all pretensions
come to me once again quite good stead and make me most happy in the
quiet. All day a strange new Subject, every day fresh, big, strange
images and a whole that we think is long and dreaming, never reached
by the imagination. So far as I am concerned, and so far as my colleagues
are concerned--I speak for them, for I know their unanimous feeling--that is a thing we would
never countenance or consent to." And by investing in these sensory activities and physical
needs of his whole self into it, these tasks themselves ennobled and as more human. For us, work
machines and factories, and we participate in our the sensual shops only half our nobler self
is not present here, do servant it for us behind our backs; craftsmen manufacture our device,
the food come to us artificially prepared to have that class and lodging with those tasks,
it has lost the spiritual nobility, the Homeric keep the people in all their doings. It now
makes a touching impression on us when Penelope, Princess of Ithaca, and Helen, the wife of the king's
son Paris, even weave their robes that Nausicaa itself washed by the sea with her maids and
their clothes dry. If a hero of the praise is that the eloquence flowed from his lips like
sweet honey (a very intellectual Lob), the poet praises for others because of her powerful
voice, because of the speed their feet and the force with which they pick up big rocks and throw away,
so for sensory properties. The reputation of the king based on the violence of the hero body
superior to that of the ruler is the people. The fight itself is a physical: man meets handsome
man full of symbolic rites, the war, the funeral, the sacrifices, the People's Assembly shall
be public, it moves in noisy visible and audible forms. The right is the sensibility in its
integrity and the moral and physical merge with equal power in the image of a certain total,
and in unbroken Human nature.

On this land so created the epic, and thus can provide all the features of this poetic Genus
by itself, if the hero rests in the evening by his deeds, if After
completion of a meal the desire for breast-fed meat and drink, then
does the rhapsodic and his songs is a perfect reproduction of what
is experienced and performs, acts, and narrative accrediting Events,
memories of a near and distant past.

Such songs drown in each party, under any roof, even if the leisure time occurred. They are not arbitrary
and individual content, not the individual she has with this particular spirit designed and
filled in that particular form, he is an organ, as it were the mouth of the people; According
to the expectant public feeling. The Nibelungenlied, says Grimm, has herself composed. Then
these coalesce Rhapsodieen an inner train, also forms the first fluctuating forecast by versatile
replacement to a fixed shape. The resulting epic Poem is in a period when even more, the general
laws of life as the Individual, the whole national life reflects a comprehensive and it is an image
of the deeds and Sentiments of the people in general. The people themselves sealed the true epic
and calls it with all its peculiarities from. The epic poem tells us, therefore, not an isolated
That, but the movement that trains and fights national masses: there is not in it a individual feeling
or passion, or limited heart and life situation as in the lyric poem or drama, but it encompasses
the full totality of a nation and time.
 

Goethe himself was very pleased with the poem, which is always a good sign: it was the process
of alienation that is never taken place. He loved the poem aloud what He was never without tears
of emotion. The first time it happened to him, too, that the public satisfied at the outset
was that a joyful echo answered him, as he otherwise Always consult his people gradually,
and always take only one generation had. His philistine prosaic enemies, the Prussian school
with their limited so-called common sense still around also found fault in this poem, critics
the old school participated in a well as mine. The reviewer, for example, in the new library the
fine arts and liberal arts, says that the poem had an equally would have charged, other than
reduced, and we believe for our person, that there are as little can be praised without limitation
censured as without restriction. So dull-minded moderation as we also present the contradictions,
the religious and political, with everyday heads Who find it think themselves very wise. The poem,
he continues, lies in the passage of epic and mimic species: Nonsense!

Goethe sent his epic a little elegiac poem titled after Hermann and
Dorothea which is found in the lyrical poetry and what he is like
a previous speaker on his own, his Audience, his work speaks.

Nevertheless, in all the beautiful poems and prosaic just Individual treatment triggered by a very
poetic. A touch of human and natural Simplicity of life, a train touching confidentiality pervades
these words, you must poem read after you read Hermann and Dorothea, also to the amiable poet
himself, his house to see his person is brought near. He complains about coming age, and asks
the fate of only two things to the continued favor with the muse and a silent and happy domestic
circle, both will get him the youth and do not go out the hilarity . Let Heller flame the fire
in the fireplace, that is keeping the wife and the boy playing in the the rice throwing. The
wine was lacking in the goblet, the friends may come and to friendly Talks to settle and hear
the poet's latest work. In a very poignant and heartfelt As he himself speaks of this, his favorite
child, the idyllic and ideal character indicated it in these words:

Germans themselves I lead you into the quiet room, Where close to the human nature of man or educates.

The
fact that war and revolution with the background that simply touching idyll is, in the following
verses indicated, then the poet says:

Have I lured you in the eye
tears and joy in the soul Singing floated, come, oppress me warmly
to his heart!

    
      

Also interesting are the literary allusions in the poems and the way in which the poet and literary
criticism to dissolve in the grace of elegiac poetry understand.

    So happy he fact that Friedrich August Wolf to a poet Homer
      into several rhapsodists has, as one was too big and dropped his
courage:

Only the health of the man who finally by the name of Homer
Liberating us boldly calls us into the full path!

After all, who dared to fight the gods and who with the One? But Home Ride to be, just as the
last, is beautiful.

Later, however, Goethe thought differently.

    Also because of its Luise Voss gets an all-too bountiful Praise:

We
      accompany the poet's mind, his Luise Quickly appreciate
    the friend, to delight us combined.
      

Both poets, Schiller and Goethe, Voss overestimated the poems and to read Schiller Expressions in his
naive and sentimental poetry, where he and Greek naive Ghost in the
Luise place so we can understand not, as Schiller's otherwise penetrating
Judgement Here are shows so bribed.

    Even in this poem is one angry, just behind the
      Homer Schoolmaster of Eutin with the work of his rough fingers mentioned
something to see.

 The War Office could
not actually and directly oppose his effort to raise troops; what they could do was to hamper
him by the adoption of wrong methods and the refusal of right ones. 

After I arrived at five Walchensee half. About an hour from the place I met with a like adventure:
a harpist with his daughter, a girl of eleven years, went before; me here and asked me to take
the child. He carried on the instrument, I left you me to sit, and she put a big new box carefully
to her feet. A trained like creature in the world is already pretty well versed. After Maria-Einsiedel
it was a pilgrimage with her mother on foot, and both were about to travel to the larger begin
to St. Jago of Compostella, when the mother lacked in death and her vow not should satisfy.
One could do in the worship of the Mother of God, never too much, she said. After a great fire
they have seen a whole house burned down to the bottom walls, and the door, behind a glass screen,
the mother of God, glass, and image intact, which is as yet an apparent miracle. All of their
trips, they have to Foot made recently in Munich played in front of the elector, and you absolutely
Twenty-one royal person can hear. They entertained me very well. Pretty big brown Eyes, a stubborn
forehead, which is sometimes a little folded hinaufwaerts. If they said she was pleasant and of course,
especially when she laughed loudly childish, however, if she was silent, she seemed to want
to mean something, and made with the upper lip, a fatal muscle. I spoke a lot from her, she
was everywhere at home and realized well on the items. So she asked me once what it was for a
tree. It was a nice big maple, first, I was on the whole trip to face. But they had the same notice
and was happy because several appeared gradually, they also can distinguish this tree. You go, she
said, to Bolzano on the show, but where I hinzoege probably is. If antraefe me there, I would
have to buy her a fair, which I promised her as well. There she also wanted to put her new
cap, they are in Munich from their earnings I can do. I wanted to show you this in advance. Now she
opened the box, and I had the richly embroidered headdress wohlbebaenderten and enjoy with her.

about
another happy prospect we also enjoyed ourselves together. She assured namely, that it would give good
weather. They rested with their barometer, and that was the Harp. When the soprano voice up,
so there is good weather, and that he had today done. I seized the omen, and we parted in the
best humor, in the hope of an early Reunion.

On the burner, 8 September, evening.

Come here, as it were forced at last to a point of rest, to a quiet place, like I can only have
wished it to me.

It was a day that one for years in the memory can enjoy.

At six clock I left mid forest, the clear sky, a sharp-cleaned Wind completely. It was a cold
snap, as it is allowed only in February. But at the Splendor of the rising sun, the dark, with
front and the spruce-covered, gray Limestone in between and behind the snowy highest peaks on
a deep blue sky, which were delicious, forever alternating images.

When you get into Scharnitz Tyrol. The border is closed with a rampart, of the valley locked and is
followed in the mountains.

It looks good: is on one side of the Rock attached to the other he rises vertically into the
air. Seefeld is the way always interesting, and when he rose up to date since Benediktbeuern
height of height and all water, the region of the Isar searched, so now you can look over a
ridge in the Inn Valley, and Inzinger lies ahead. The sun was high and hot, I had to relieve
my clothes, I in the mutable atmosphere of the day often changeable.

When you drive into the Inn valley Zirl down.

The location is beautiful beyond description, and the high sun perfume made it quite wonderful. The
coachman ran more than I wished he had not yet Fair heard and wanted them in Innsbruck, it
was just Marientag to the more devout strength to take. Now it always rattled down to the
Inn, past the Martin Wall, a steep outgoing immense limestone wall. To the place where Emperor
Maximilian have went so shall I dare me well even without angels and to come here, though it
is always a wanton Companies would be.

Innsbruck is beautifully situated in a broad, rich valley between high cliffs and mountains.
Only stay here I wanted, but it left me no peace. Shortly I am on the ergetzte Son of the landlord,
a real live Soell. So I meet by and by my people. to celebrate the Feast of birth, everything
is cleaned. Healthy and wohlhaebig to crowds, pilgrimage them to Wilten, a devotional places, a quarter
of an hour from the city towards the mountains to. At two divided clock, when my car rolling
the lively crowds, colorful, everything was joyful Train and gear.

Up From Innsbruck, it is always nice, because help does not describe. On the beaten Due to climb
up a canyon that the water to send to the Inn, a ravine, the sight of countless vicissitudes
offers. When the road close to the most rugged cliffs hergeht, is so carved into it, so we can see
the page opposite gentle slopes, so that nor can the most beautiful tillage practiced it.
There are villages, houses, cottages, Huts, all painted white, between fields and hedgerows on
the dependence and high broad surfaces. Soon changed the whole; the interactive aspect is the
meadow, to also the steep slope into a loss.

To my creation of the world I have conquered many things, but nothing very new and unexpected.
Also I have dreamed a lot of the model, what I am talking so long, what I love to illustrate would
like to do what moves around inside me, and I do not any eyes in nature can provide.

Now it has got darker and darker, the individual does, the crowds were getting bigger and wonderful,
at last, because everything was moving just like a deep secret picture of me, saw I once again
on the high snow peaks lit by the moon, and now I expect that This morning the rock divide
enlighten, where I on the boundary line of the south and north 'm stuck.

I'll add some comments about the weather, perhaps the very reason I so cheap is because I dedicate
so many considerations. receives on the countryside Weather is good and evil, if it has become
already done, we are presently in the mountains, if it arises. This is me now met so often when
I travel, walks, on the hunt days and nights in the mountain forests, between cliffs lingered,
and there is I climbed a cricket, which I will give for nothing else, but I do not get rid of
how you have to just get rid of the crickets at least. I see them everywhere, as if it would
be a truth, and so I will speak as well, as I already the indulgence of my friends to check
as often as in the case of am.

Consider the mountains closer or further away and see their summits gleaming in the sunshine soon, Front
fog moved soon, roared round of storming clouds, rain lashed lines, with Snowy, we write all
this to the atmosphere as we eye with their movement and their subsequent modifications can see
very well and take. The mountains lie before our personal appearance, however Meaning in its conventional
forms motionless. We think it is dead because it solidifies , we believe it to act, because they
rest. But I can take quite some time not entbrechen, an inward, quiet, secret action of the same
The changes, which show up in the atmosphere, attributable in large part. I do believe that
the mass of the Earth at all, and consequently, especially its excellent foundations, not exert
a constant, unchanging appeal, but that this attraction manifested itself in a certain pulsation,
so they are required by internal, perhaps and accidental causes increased outward sign soon, soon
diminished. May all other attempts represent this oscillation, are too limited and crude, the atmosphere
is soft and wide enough to inform us of those silent effects. Decreases in these appeal in the least,
so soon we indicated the reduced gravity, the reduced elasticity of Air to that effect. The atmosphere,
the moisture in it chemically and mechanically distributed, was not wearing clouds descend, rain
fall, and Regenstroeme drawn to the land. Increasingly, however, the mountains its gravity,
it is so soon Elasticity of the air restored, and there arise two important phenomena. Once gather
the mountains vast masses of clouds around her, she firmly and rigidly as second Peaks above
you until it is determined by internal struggle electrical forces, as thunderstorms, fall fog
and rain, then acts on the ruins of the elastic air, which now again to take more water to dissolve
and process is capable. I saw the depletion of such a cloud be clear: they hung shone at the
steepest summit, the sunset them. Slowly, slowly separated themselves from their ends to leave
a few flakes were pulled away and the height lifted, which disappeared, and so the whole mass
disappeared gradually and was spun in front of my eyes like a rock by an invisible hand quite properly.

When
friends laughed about the patient and his strange weather observer theories have, I give them,
perhaps by some other considerations opportunity to laugh, for I must confess, because my trip
was actually an escape from all the trials and tribulations, the I suffered under the fifty-one
degrees, I had hope, under the forty-eighth to enter a real Goshen.

But I was deceived me know how I would have earlier should, for not only does the latitude climate
and weather, but the mountain ranges, particularly those who cut through from east to west by
the states. In this always happen big changes, and northward lying countries suffer the most.
So the weather seems for the whole of the north this summer oversized by the Alps, where I write this,
to have been determined. There is always the last months since rained, and southwest and southeast
have led the rain quite northward. Italy they are to nice weather, so had to have dry.

Now, from the dependence, climate, mountain height, humidity on the most diverse contingent
Plant kingdom, a few words. Here again I have no particular change, but profit found. Apples and pears
hang in front of Innsbruck frequently in the valley, and peaches Grapes, however, they bring out
Welschland meridian or rather from the Tyrol. To Innsbruck they build a lot of Turkish - and
buckwheat, which they call panel.

I looked up the torch the first Laerchenbaeume, with Schoenberg the first Zirbel. Possibly the
Harfnermaedchen here also would have demanded?

The plants on, lead me still my Schuelerschaft. To Munich, I believe really just to see the ordinary.
Of course, was my piece day - and night driving such more refined observations are not cheap.
Now I have my linen with me and his terminology stamped together well, but where to come and rest
time for analysis, which in any case, if I I know right, my strength
can never be?

Therefore, I sharpen my eye again General, and when I looked at the first Walchensee Gentiana,
I noticed that I also now first the water found the new plants.

What made me even more attentive, was the influence that the mountain height on plant seemed to
have. Not only new plants I found there, but changed the old growth; when deep in the area, branches
and stems were stronger and masted, eyes closer were together and the leaves were broad, so
higher up into the mountains were branches stem and delicate, the
eyes apart engaged, so that from node to node is a bigger Between
room took place, and the leaves are lanceolate formed.

I noticed this in a pasture and a gentian and convinced me that it is not about different
types . Would Also on Walchensee I noticed longer and slimmer rush than in the lower country.

The
Limestone Alps, which I have been cut, a gray color and beautiful, odd, irregular shape, whether
equal shares in the rock camp and benches. But also because curved bearing deposits and non-weathered
rock at all, so see the walls Summit and weird. This increases the burner up Gebirgsart far. In
the area of upper lake, I found an alteration of it. To dark green and dark gray mica schist,
permeated with strong quartz, leaned a white, dense limestone, to the release glimmerig was,
and in large, though infinitely jagged masses of decency.

About the same I found again mica schist, which seemed to me to be but tenderness than the previous
one. Next up to show a special kind of granite gneiss, or rather a, which the gneiss zubildet,
as in the area of ​​elbows. Up here, over against the house, is the rock mica schist. The water
coming from the mountains to bring, with just the gray stone and lime.

Not far away must be the granite floor, which inspires all. The map shows that located on the
side of the actual large burner, from which the water is all around . Pour

From the exterior of the human race I have perceived so much. The nation is brave and straight
before him. The figures remain fairly constant, brown eyes wohlgeoeffnete and very well drawn black eyebrows
with the women, however, blonde eyebrows and wide for men.

These give the green hats among the gray rocks a happy Appearance. You wear adorned with ribbons
or wide sash of taffeta with Franzen, the be attached with needles at all dainty. Also, everyone
has a flower or a feather the hat.

In contrast, the women deform by white, cotton, shaggy, very wide Caps, as if they were shapeless
Mannesnachtmuetzen. That gives them a very strange appearance, abroad since they carry the green
man hats, dress the very nice.

I have had occasion to see, set the value of the common people of peacock feathers, and like every
colorful spring will be honored. Those who wanted to travel to these mountains, would have
to like with them. Such a spring mounted in the right place would take the most welcome tips
there are.

As I now but these leaves, collect, business forms and in such institutions to think Friends can
sometimes allow a slight view of my previous stories, and I also want what I know so far and
thought, rolling of the soul, consider I contrast with a shower, some packages that I need to
take a short and good confession needs: it is but my companion, they
will not have much influence on my next days!

I had to Carlsbad taken all of my writings in order to obtain by Goschen Issue together finally.
The unpublished possessed I have lived in beautiful Copies of the skilful hand of the secretary
bird. This brave man accompanied me also this time to assist me with
his skill.

As a result I was put in a position, the first four volumes under the most faithful participation
Herder to send to the publisher and was going to do with the last four the same. These consisted
mainly of only designed Work, even from fragments, such as my bad habit, much to start, and decreasing
interest had to leave, with the years, employments and amusements Gradually increased.

Since I have all these things led me, I like to obey the requirements of Carlsbad witty society, and
read it all before, which hitherto remained unknown, as it is for every time over the non-accomplishment
of those things that one would love to longer talk would have bitterly complained.

The celebration of my birthday was mainly that I received several poems in my name taken, but
neglected work, reflecting each according to its Art complained about my procedure. They include
a poem signed on behalf of the birds from where a good friend deputation
sent to this lively creatures begged, he would like them but the promised
kingdom now also set up and reasons.

No less The statements were insightful and graceful about my other Stueckwerke, so to me alive
at one time again and I have friends my intentions and complete gehabten Plane told with amusement.
This prompted urgent demands and wishes, and gave Herder won game when he tried to persuade
me, I want these papers again take with me, especially Iphigenia give some attention, which
they probably deserve. The piece, as it currently stands, is more design than execution, it
is written in poetic prose, which sometimes gets lost in an iambic rhythm, too probably resembles
another syllable masses. This does, indeed, the effect of large entry if you It does not read very
well and to hide the deficiencies of certain tricks white. He put me this much to his heart,
and I think bigger travel plan hidden from him as to all had, he thought it was just back from
a mountain walk the talk, and because he to Mineralogy and Geology always mocking proved, he said
I should rather deaf to knock rocks, contact my tools in this work. I obeyed, so many well-intentioned
Andra Engen: this far but it was not possible to draw my attention away. Now I especially "Iphigenia"
from the package and take them into the beautiful, warm country as Companion. The day is so
long undisturbed reflection, and the beautiful images of the Environment not suppress what the
poetic sense, but they call him, of movement and free air accompanied only quicker out.

From the Brenner to Verona

Trento, 11 September, early.

After I completely fifty hours of life and been in constant employment, I came Last night at
eight clock here, I soon went to bed and find myself once again able to proceed in my narrative.
On the ninth evening, when I first piece of my diary had closed,
I wanted the hostel, the post-house on the burner in position draw,
but it was not, I missed the character and went half sulkily Home.

The host asked me if I wanted to discontinued, except the moonlight
and the best way and if I knew that he the horse tomorrow morning
to retract the need Grommets and until then would have gladly returned
home, his advice was so selfish, so I took him however, because it
matches my inner instincts, as well.

Let the sun again look, the air was tolerable and I packed up and
clock at seven I drove away.

The atmosphere was about the Lord and the clouds nice evening all.

The coachman went to sleep, and the horses were running at the fastest trot mountain, always the
known ways away, they came to a spot just as it went slower. Der Fuehrer woke up and drove again,
and I came very quickly, between high rocks on which tearing down the Adige River. The moon
rose and illuminated vast belongings. Some mills between ancient pines above the foaming power
were completely Everdingen.

When I arrived at nine clock to Sterzing, they gave me to understand that I was the same wish away
again. In Mittenwald point twelve Clock I found everything in a deep sleep, except the coachman,
and so it went on to Brixen, where I was hijacked again so to speak,
I arrived on the day in Kollmann.

The Postillons drove that a vision and hearing passed, and so sorry I did this beautiful areas
with the most horrible Fast and to travel through at night just flew by, but inside it rejoiced
me that a good Wind behind me and read me bitter zujagte my wishes. At daybreak I saw the first
growing hills. A woman with pears and peaches met me, and so it went on Germans go, where I
arrived at seven clock and was immediately weiterbefoerdert.

Now saw I finally got sunshine on a high after a while I was again moved northward, the valley,
which is Bolzano.


It did not assist Redmond in gaining recruits for the Army that a general officer should represent
the services as trusty and proven allies of gentlemen whose leading idea in life was to relegate
Home Rule to such a destination The average Nationalist civilian did not easily discriminate
between what was said by a retired officer out of commission and what was said by officers
in uniform. There was a tendency to regard General Richardson as speaking of right for the
Army--for which Nationalist recruits were desired.

The Liberal Government could not help Redmond to allay Ulster or Unionist hostility. One thing
they could do; they could ensure that whatever concession or privilege was extended to those
who followed Sir Edward Carson should be equally accorded to those who followed Redmond. This
one thing which they could have done they did not do. They allowed the War Office to increase
the arrogance of the Ulstermen and to weaken Redmond's hand, giving Ulster special privileges,
which inevitably created jealousy and suspicion in Nationalist Ireland--as shall be shown in
detail.

But first it is necessary to indicate the other element of hostility--far more serious than
that of Ulster, because it challenged Redmond's leadership. It was that of the extremist group,
which rapidly began to welcome German successes, not for any love to Germany but because it
could not conceive of any hope for Ireland except in the weakening or Destruction of British
power. Their joy, they voiced over this news was, with Express a sincere
piety accompanied, and she now a little louder and slower said, 'I could understand it more.

However, was her daughter came in and sat down to my guide, you what I was told, faithfully
repeated. She had tied on a neat apron and put their hair into submission to the network. The more
I looked at her and with her mother compared, the more striking to me was the difference between
the two figures. A vibrant, healthy Sensuality looked out from all over the formation of the daughter,
she liked a woman of forty his years. With merry blue eyes, she looked around wise, without me in
her look any Suspicion could feel. While she sat, her figure promised more length, as they showed when
she got up, and their position was determined, she was sitting with forward curved body and
placed his hands on his knees. Way reminds me its more blunt than sharp Physiognomy of the
portrait of her brother, we know in copper. She asked various about my trip over to see my intent,
Sicily, and was convinced that I certainly come back and celebrate the Feast of St. Rosalie with them
would.

Since, however, had done the Grandmother back some questions for me and I answer her employs,
was the daughter said, half aloud to my companion, but like I cause could take to ask what was
the question. He said the fact Mrs Capitummino tell him that her brother nor her fourteen ounces
was guilty and they have with his quick departure Palermo said eingeloeset things for him,
since the time but neither heard of him, nor money, nor received any support from him, though he,
as you hear, big Possess riches and make a princely effort. If I wanted to take over me, After
my return to remind him in a good way to blame and support auszuwirken for them, even if I would
not take a letter or if necessary order. I offered to do so. She asked where I live, where they have
to send the letter. I refused to tell my apartment, and offered me the next day toward evening
the letter itself to pick up.

They told me to their predicament; she was a widow with three children,
one of which One of them will be educated in the monastery, the other
is present here and her son just went to the lesson.

Besides these three children, she had her mother with him, for ensure their maintenance, they
would have to, and besides, they've made the hapless Christian love ill person brought to them
that increase their load yet, and all their diligence rich to give little back to the makeshift
and yours. They know that God these good works will not let go unrewarded sigh, but still much under
the load they have have taken so long.

The young people were also mixed into the conversation, and conversation was lively. By I spoke
with the others listen, 'I want the old woman asked her daughter
whether I even most of their holy religion is attached.

I could see that the daughter of a wise As sought to evade the response by as much as I understood
the mother meant that the stranger good for them to be disposed to rail, and that it is probably
not smart, someone once to ask about this point.

Because they heard that I wanted to depart soon from Palermo, they were urgent and requested
me that I would like to come back but yes, they boasted the most
heavenly days Rosalie of the feast, the like in the whole world would
have to not be seen and enjoyed.

Remove My companion, who has long had a mind to, to, finally made
the interview by his gestures to an end, and I promised to come back
the next day in the evening and collect the letter.

My companion was pleased that everything had succeeded so happy, and we parted from each other happy.

One
can imagine the impression made this poor, pious, well-meaning family to me had. My curiosity
was satisfied, but their natural and good behavior had a Share in me excited, which is still
propagated by reflection.

Once was but my concern about the following day. It was natural that This phenomenon, which she
had surprised in the first moment after my departure some provoke
thought in them had to.

Through the family tree I had known that several lived on the family, it was natural that
they zusammenberiefen their friends to be to be repeated in their presence, that which they first
baffled by tags had heard me. My intention had reached me, and I had just left, this of ending
adventures of a decorous manner. I went so the next day the same after dinner alone in her
apartment. She wondered, as I entered. The letter was not ready yet, they said, and some of
her relatives wanted me to get to know, which would arrive in the evening.

I replied that I would have to leave tomorrow morning, already, that I make more visits, also
have to pack and so sooner rather than never want to come would have.

Meanwhile, in came the son that I had not anticipated the day. He matched his Sister of growth
and education.

He brought the letter that they wanted to give to me, he, as is usual in those areas is out
of the house at one of the public sitting Notaries had had to write. The young man had a quiet,
sad and modest Being inquired after his uncle, asked about his wealth and spending and put sadly,
why he wants his family yet so forgotten. "It would be our best luck, "he continued," If he came
here, and once we accept are wanted; But, "he continued," as he has discovered to you that he
still had relatives in Palermo? It is said that he deny us everywhere and for outputting a
man of great birth. " I answered that question, which by the carelessness of my guide in our first
entry had been imposed in a way that made it likely that the Uncle, when he had the same against
the public reason to hide its origin, but against his friends and acquaintances make no secret
of it.

The sister, who was during that conversation brought about by the presence and entered his brother,
probably also by the absence of yesterday's friend got more courage
also began to speak very nicely and lively.

They asked very, she her uncle, when I wrote him to recommend, but just as much when I travel
through the kingdom made to come back and celebrate the festival with them, Rosalie.

Her mother chimed in with the children. "Sir," she said, "if it is true actually not returned
since I have a grown daughter to see other men in my house, and you
have reason to beware of both of the danger than the gossip, so you
should we but always be welcome when they return to this city.

"

"Yes," replied the children, "we want the Lord round lead at the festival, we want him show everything,
we want to mount the scaffold where we see the ceremony at the best .

Can As he is pleased with the large cars and especially the marvelous illumination Rejoice!
"

However, the Grandmother had read the letter and read again.

Then she heard that I wanted to say goodbye, she stood up and handed me the folded paper. "Tell
You my son, "she began with a fine animation, so a kind of enthusiasm, "They say my son has
made me happy as the message which you sent by him have brought! Tell him that I agree with
him so my heart "- here she stretched the arms apart and pressed together again on her breast
- "that I daily God and our Blessed Virgin in prayer for him plead that I think him and his
wife Give blessings, and that I only wish it again before my end with these eyes To see which
have shed so many tears over him. "

The peculiar delicacy of the Italian language favored the election
and the noble position these words, which were accompanied by vivid
sign yet about this, so that nation to spread over their comments
to an incredible stimulus is used.

I did not take leave of them without emotion.

She gave me all the hands, the children escorted me out, and while I walked down the stairs, she
jumped on the balcony of the window that went from the kitchen to the street shouted at me,
waved me greetings and repeated that I would not like even forget to come back. I saw stand
on the balcony when I went around the corner.

I need not say that the share that I took this family, the lively My desire, aroused her to
be useful and come to their need for help. You was now betrayed by me again, and their hopes
of an unexpected Help there were by the curiosity of northern Europe on the way to be deceived
a second time.

My first intent was to notify them before I left those fourteen ounces to them the refugee owed, and the presumption
that I wiederzuerhalten this sum from him hoped to cover my gift, but when I went home to my
bill, my office and overturned papers, I saw that in a country where by the lack of communication
the distance to infinity, as it grows, I would put myself at a loss, if I arrogated, the injustice
of a bold man by a warm good nature to improve.

In the evening I took another man to my trade, and asked him what he run the festival tomorrow will,
as a large procession through the city and the viceroy itself the Holy should accompany on foot.
The slightest gust of wind would have to so God and man in the thickest Dust cover.

The cheerful man said that one in Palermo is like leaving for a miracle. Several times In similar cases,
was a violent rain had fallen and the most dependent Road at least partly inside and floated
off the paved procession path pure. Also This time we cherish the same hope, not without reason,
for the sky and pull over promise rain on the night.

Palermo, Sunday, 15 April 1787.

And so it happened! the most violent rain fell last night from the sky. Once in the morning I rushed
to the streets to witness the miracle. And it was really strangely enough. Between the reciprocal
step stones rain had limited power the lightest of the waste based road down, and partly at
sea, some in the Deductions, unless they were blocked, driven away, at least the coarser Gestroehde
pushed from one place to another, and thus wondrous, pure meander on the pavement drawn. Now
there were hundreds and hundreds of people with shovels, brooms and forks dahinterher, to extend these
pure bodies and bring it into context by the still uebriggebliebenen Impurities on this soon, soon accumulated
on that side. It was because that the Procession, as she started to really blazed a neat Schlangenweg
through the mud and both saw the all of the long held as the clergy nettfuessige nobility,
the Viceroy at the top, unhindered and unsullied could pass through. I thought the children of Israel
to see, which was prepared by Moore and modernization of Angels hand a dry path, and finished me
in the parables of the unbearable sight of so many devout and decent People through an avenue of wet
droppings, and by praying to see through parade.

At the step stones had still neat change, inside the city, however, We go where the intention to
see different so far neglected, especially today was said that it was almost impossible to get
through, although even here the sweeping and heaps was not neglected.

This celebration gave us an opportunity to visit the main church and its monuments considered,
also because we were once on his feet, look out for other buildings; because we as a Moorish until
now well-preserved house very much amused - not great, but with beautiful, wide and well-proportioned,
harmonious spaces, in a northern Habitable climate not just in southern a very welcome stay. The
any building like each of which land - and elevation over deliver.

We also saw an unfriendly place various remains of ancient marble statues, to decipher but
we had no patience.

Palermo, Monday, 16 April 1787.

Since we have to threaten us now, even with a near departure from the island, it was hoped I found,
still in the public garden a perfect refreshment, my stint in the "Odyssey" to read and a walk
to the valley at the foot of Rosalie's the plan the "Nausicaa" think through and continue to
try and see if this object a dramatic Side was to win. All this is, if not with great luck,
but with much pleasure happened.

I saw the plan and could not help, some places that I particularly
attracted to design and execute.

Palermo, Tuesday, 17 April 1787.

It is a true accident, if one is haunted by many spirits and tried! Today morning I went with
the solid, quiet intent to continue my literary dreams, after the public garden, but before I knew it's
caught me, tell me another ghost which I already crept after those days. The many plants that
I had only been in tubs see and pots, and even the biggest of the year only behind glass windows
was used, here are happy and fresh open air, and by their determination to fully meet, they are
more distinctly.

In the face of so many new and re-structure occurred to me the old cricket again, if I could
not discover in this family, the original plant. Such as yet there has to be! What else would
I know that this or that Formation is a plant is, if they were not all constructed on a pattern?

I
tried to investigate, which since the many different forms from each other ways as well. And
I found more and more similar than different, and I wanted to Attach my botanical terminology, so
that went well, but it is not fertilized, it made me uneasy without
it helped me.

Disturbed was my good poetic intent, the Garden of Alcinous was gone,
a world garden had opened up.

Why are we moderns but so distracted, irritable why to claims, which we can not achieve even
meet!

Alcamo, Wednesday, 18 April 1787.

At times we rode from Palermo. Kniep and vetturino had at one - and Unpacking proved excellent. We
moved slowly up the beautiful road that we have the known visit to San Martino become, and admired
once again one of the Prachtfontaenen on the road than we were prepared for the moderate morality
of this country. Our groom namely a small Weinfaesschen had slung on the belt, as our sutlerins
, Maintain, and it seemed for a few days to sufficiently contain wine. We wondered, therefore,
when he losritt on one of the many Springroehren, the graft opened and water enter left. We asked
the German surprise with truly what he was going there, if not the
barrel was full of wine, to which he replied with great composure,
he had a third of them empty left, and because no one drink unmixed
wine, so it was better he was mixing equal as a whole, because the
combined liquids better and it was not so sure, everywhere to find
water. To understand Ireland
at such a moment was difficult for anyone, impossible for a man who had not been in close touch
with the mental condition produced by all these extraordinary happenings. The effect of the
preparations for rebellion in Ulster, of the Curragh incident, and of the collision between
troops and people in Dublin--the effect of the existence of a permitted Nationalist Volunteer
Force--the effect of Redmond's appeal: these were three completely novel and conflicting currents
in the stream of Irish life. It is easy to foresee how little grace they'll
find the venerable and part of our lucky readers, which is discuss (and probably have reason
to be) that in similar circumstances is quite different would have amounted to as Danae.


A proof of the unhappy lack of comprehension is furnished by the second sentence I have quoted. He wants them to go to hand, because they are would
certainly prove to be grateful, and so I pushed him a few pieces of silver in the hand him about
his expectation enjoyed. He asked me to come back, yes, especially would have to I miss the
feast of Saints not know where I built myself with the utmost security and should pleasure.
Yes, if I, as a handsome man, as is fitting, to a pretty women had to do, so he could assure
me that the nicest and most respectable woman of all of Assisi on his recommendation I am taken
up. He retired now protest, that he still remember night at the tomb of the saint in my prayers
and for my would pray more distant travel. So we parted, and I felt very comfortable with nature
and with myself to be alone. The road to Foligno was one of the most beautiful and most graceful
Walks that I've ever driven. Four full hours on a mountain out right a richly cultivated valley.

With
the vetturino it is a tiresome journey, the best one that you follow them easily on foot can.
Ferrara I leave me now always hitherto so on tow.

This Italy, Nature beguenstiget greatly stayed in all mechanical and technical, but what a more
convenient and fresher way of life is founded, against all countries endlessly. The carriage
of vetturino, which means even Sedia, a chair, is certainly from the old Sedan chairs created
in which, women, older and more distinguished persons of mules could bear. Instead of the
posterior mule that you stretched out next to the fork, sat think there are two wheels on, and
was in no further improvement. It will be like centuries ago still rocked away, and they are in
their homes and everything.

When the first poetic idea that people lived mostly under the open
sky and will occasionally see some withdrew from Not in caves, yet
realized, it must to the buildings around here, especially in the
country to enter, quite the sense and taste the caves.

Such incredible carelessness they have to think about the not to obsolete. Mt unprecedented levity
they fail to focus on the winter, the long nights prepare, and therefore suffer a good deal
of the year as the dogs. Here in Foligno, in a completely Homeric household, where everything
on earth a burning fire in a large hall is assembled, screams and roars, at the long tables
supplied, as the wedding painted by Kana, I take this opportunity to write this because one of
an inkwell can get what I did not think under such circumstances. But one also sees this sheet,
the cold and the discomfort of my writing on.

Now I feel probably the most daring, unprepared and unaccompanied in that country to go. With the
different money, the vetturino, prices, the bad is Wirtshaeusern it is a daily necessity, that
one who for the first time is alone and how I ununterbrochnen Enjoyment
hoped and searched, would have to feel unhappy enough.

I am not wanted, regarded as the land on which costs either, and when they drag me to Ixion wheel
to Rome I will not complain.

Terni, 27 October, evening.

Re sitting in a cave, which last year suffered from the earthquake,
the town is in a delicious place I gazed on a tour around it forth
with joy, at the beginning of a beautiful Plaine between mountains,
which are all still lime.

As Bologna over there, Sun Terni hueber placed at the foot of the
mountain.

In Terni. Drawing by Goethe

Now that the papal soldier left me is a priest of my companion.

This seems been more satisfied with his condition and informed me that he certainly has as heretics
recognizes my questions very fond of the rite and then other related things. By I always come
back with new people, I get absolutely my intention, one has the people talk only to each other
hear what that for a vivid picture of the whole country There. You are the most wonderful way,
all opponents, have the strangest provincial - and City zeal may be all suffer not, the stalls
are in perpetual conflict, and all always vividly present with passion, that they give you the whole day
Comedy and just imagine, and yet they also hold back on and remember no matter where the stranger
are found in their actions and omissions can not.

Spoleto've climbed and I was on the water line, while the bridge of
a mountain is another.

The ten sheets, which extend over the valley, are of brick centuries since its so quiet, and
the water wells still in Spoleto and in all places Ends. This is the third work of the old,
which I see, and always the same great sense. A second nature, is acting for civic purposes,
that is their architecture, so is the Amphitheater, temples, and the aqueduct. Now I feel only
like me with all legal arbitrariness were hated, such as the winter box on the white stone,
a nothing to nothing, a enormous confection essay, and so with a thousand other things. That is now all stillborn
there, because what does not have a true inner existence, has no life and can not be large
and not be large.

What am I not become the last eight weeks of guilty pleasure and insight,
but also Muehe me enough's cost.

I just keep my eyes always open and hit me the items right one. I would like to judge at all if
it only would be possible.

San Crucifix, a quaint chapel on the road feel, I do not for the rest of a temple standing in the
place, but it has columns, pillars, beams and found patched together, not stupid, but great.
Description it's not, it's probably somewhere in copper stung.

And so it is a wonderful because it felt that we, as we strive to a term purchase of antiquity, only
ruins oppose, from which we now again taking care would have aufzuerbauen, of which one still has no
idea.

With what we call classic soil, it has a different explanation. If one can not fantastic moves,
but the area really does, as it lies there, it's always the crucial scene, which caused the
greatest deeds, and I've always been the geological and scenic views used to imagination and
feeling to and oppress me to get a clear, crisp viewing of the locality. Since closes on for
life in a miraculous way, the story, and you do not understand how happens to one, and I feel
the greatest desire to read the Tacitus in Rome.

The weather I can not disregard completely successful. Since I came up the Apennines of Bologna,
the clouds still covered the north, they later altered their direction and moved after the
Trasimeno lake. Here they were hung, drew and probably around noon. Instead so that the vast Plaine
des Po all the clouds over the summer after the Tyrolean mountains,
sends send it now has a part to the Apennines, really gets the rainy
season.

You start now to read the olives. You are dealing with the hands, in other places beat them with
sticks boot.

If that an early winter, then the remaining to hanging from the spring. Today I have on very stony
ground, the largest, oldest Trees seen.

The favor of the Muses as the demons see us not always the right time. Today was I got excited,
a little train, which is not at the time. The center of Catholicism Approaching me, surrounded
by Catholics, a priest imprisoned in a sedation by I observed the purest sense of the true
nature and the noble art and to regard strive, I came so vividly before my mind that the original
Christianity all trace is extinguished, so, when I envisioned it to me in its purity, as we
did in see the book of Acts, so I had to shudder, but this is on those cozy beginnings a shapeless,
even baroque paganism busy. Then I remembered the eternal Jew again, the Witness to all this
wondrous development - and rewinding and was such a strange state saw that Christ himself when
he comes back, asking him for the fruits of his teaching turning
around, stepping in danger of being crucified a second time.

That legend: "Venio iterum crucifigi "I should serve in this disaster with the fabric.

Such dreams float in front of me. Because come out of impatience, again, I slept fully dressed
white and not pretty, to be awakened as in the morning, I quickly
into the car to set and between sleeping and waking the day to drive
against, while the first best to have fantasy pictures exercise at
will.

Citta Castellana, 28 October.

The last evening will not miss me.

It is not yet eight clock and everything has to bed; I can still remember the past and finally
I look forward to the next future. Today was a very serene, beautiful day, the morning cold,
the day clear and warm, the Windy evening a little, but very nice.

Terni we went out very early, Narni, we came up, before it was day, and so I the bridge not
seen. Valleys and downs, near and far, delicious places, all Limestone mountains, not even a trace
of another rock.

Otricoli is located on a former washed up by the currents along Kieshuegel and is built of lava,
across the river-fetched.

Once you cross the bridge is over, you find yourself in the volcanic terrain, be it changed now
with real lava rock or frueherm by roasting and smelting. You climb up a mountain, you would
like to appeal for the gray lava. It contains many white, granatfoermig formed crystals. The road, after
the height of the Citta Castellana goes from this very stone, very
nice smooth run, the city built on volcanic tuff, in which I ash,
pumice and lava thought to explore.

From the castle is the very nice view, the mountain stands alone as Soracte even picturesque,
probably to the Apennines associated limestone. The vulcanized distances are much lower than
the Apennines, and only the water is passing through mountains and
rocks formed from them, as for wonderfully picturesque belongings,
overhanging cliffs and landscape other contingencies are formed.

So tomorrow night in Rome.

I think it's still very limited, if this wish is fulfilled, what should I wish afterward?
I do not know as I with my pheasant Kahn happy to land home and meet my friends healthy, happy
and kind should.

Rome

The Ponte Salaro near Rome. Etching of Mechau

Rome, 1 November 1786th

Finally I can open my mouth and greet my friends with joy. Be forgiven to me the mystery and, as it underground
journey here. As soon as I dared myself to say where I went, I was afraid even on the road yet,
and only on the Porta del Popolo I was sure to have Rome.

And now let me say that I am a thousand times, yes, constantly thinking of your Close the items
that I never thought to see only.

Only because I and anyone with physical soul bound in the north,
all appearance gone to these places looked, I could I decide to make
a long, lonely path and the center to look after to me an irresistible
need to process.

Yes, the last year there was a kind of disease, of which I could only of sight and the saving presence.
Now I may admit it, but last I dared look no more Latin book, not a drawing of an Italian
area. The desire to see this land, was about ready, so she is satisfied, I will friends and country
again until quite fond from the bottom and the return desirable,
yes to the more desirable, as I feel with certainty that I do not
appreciate as much on owner owned and private uses, bring along, but
that to me and others through the whole life to lead and to serve
foerdernis.

Rome, 1 November 1786th

Yes, I finally arrived in this capital of the world! If I put them in good company; be executed
from a very intelligent man, seen in front of fifteen years would have wanted I am fortunate.
If I but alone, with my own eyes see and visit, it is good that I was given this joy so late.

over
the Tyrolean mountains I moved away as it were. Verona, Vicenza, Padua, Venice had I good,
Ferrara, Cento, Bologna and Florence fugitive hardly seen. Desire to Rome to come, was so great,
grew so much every moment that no stay was longer and I stayed only three hours in Florence.
Now I'm here and quietly and, it seems soothes my whole life. Because it's, you may say, a new life
when one eye sees the whole thing with that one part in - and knows it by heart. All of my
dreams Youth I see now alive: the first copper pictures, that I remember (my father had the brochures
of Rome hung on an ante-room), I see now in truth, and all I in paintings
and drawings, engravings and woodcuts, in plaster and cork already
long known, is gathered together in front of me, wherever I go, I
find an acquaintance in a new world, it is all that's how I thought,
and everything new.

Likewise, I can think of Observations, say of my ideas. I have not had a whole new thought,
nothing very strange place but the old are so determined, so alive, become so connected, that they
can apply for new.

Pygmalion as Eliza, which he formed himself according to his wishes and so much truth and had
given life, as the artist is able to finally approached him and said: "It's me!" How different
was the living than the formed stone!

How moral is it beneficial to me to live under a very sensible people, about that so much talking and writing
is that judges every stranger to the standards he brings. I forgive everybody who blames and
rebukes: they stand too far away from us, and intercourse as a stranger with them is difficult
and costly.

Rome, 3 November.

One of the Hauptbeweggruende that I SIMULATE me to hasten to Rome, was the feast of All Saints,
the first of November, because I'm done, the individual saints so much honor, which is It will
first of all. But how much I cheated on me! No striking general festival the Roman Church had loved, and
loved every order in particular the memory of his Patrons celebrate in silence, for the festival
and the name allocated to it's special day is actually where each appears in its glory.

The Monte Cavallo in Rome. Etching by Pironesi.

But yesterday, the day of All Souls, I's was better.

The memory of the Pope celebrates in his private chapel in the Quirinal. Everyone has free access.
I ran with a table leg on Monte Cavallo. The square before the palace has something very own individual,
irregularities as a grand and lovely. The two behemoths I've seen
now! Neither eye nor mind are sufficiently to take them. We hurried
to the amount by the beautifully spacious courtyard a uebergeraeumige
stairs. In these vestibules, compared to the chapel, in the view the
number of rooms, you feel wonderful under the same roof with the Vicar
of Christ.

The function was addressed, the pope and cardinals in
the church already. The Holy Father, the most beautiful, dignified
Maennergestalt, cardinals of different age and education.

I was seized
with a wonderful desire, the head of the Church should open his golden
mouth and, speaking of the unspeakable, the salvation of souls blessed
with delight, we delight in . Put
The first was that enlistment in the Territorials for home service had been stopped--so that
the proposal had little advantage, if any, over enlistment in the Irish brigades. The second
was due to the Volunteers themselves, many of whom, though willing to serve in the war, were
unwilling to take the oath of allegiance.

There were limits to the length to which Redmond felt himself able to go, and he never dealt
with this objection by argument. The example which he set was plain to all. He joined in singing
"God save the King," in drinking the King's health, and at Aughavanagh now he flew the Union
Jack beside the Green flag. He was willing to take part in any demonstration which implied
that Nationalist Ireland under its new legal status accepted its lot in the British Empire
fully and without reserve. 

Hermann says of the impression made on him Dorothea:

    

When I heard the words that communicate, I was concerned.

    

    And Dorothea of ​​the farewell scene again to him:
    

So I follow him like he seems a sensible young man.

    

    The pastor, Hermann same predicate:

    Now it does not stick Ennetbürgen, the girl that your beloved Reasonably
good son who first moved the soul.

    

Even otherwise there is the mild epithet:

It takes but only the Verständ'ge
is right.

    
      
    Another time:
    
    Soon to do the same and what is right and it seems to me sensible.
    

A third time:

Ah, there you see around, who was probably the wisest man.

Also, the clean and wholesome appears as universal praise, not just the clothing:

    But I'll give you some signs of neat clothes;
      
    but otherwise:
    
                              Leaving behind the walls of the city and
    the neat towers. - Where the stallions
    quickly consumed the pure oats. - Tied with ropes clean the power
      of the horses. - If you eat of the shadow of peace and pure source.
- For if you seen the towns, large and neat does not rest. - Ye that
surrounding the chin, the round, with cleaner grace.

    
    The same restraint is evident in the expressions of pain
    and joy. A recurring Is the mild word 'sad' against him 'convenience',
    'refreshing', 'pleasant', 'friendly', particularly 'lively'.
    The word 'gaily' returns, for example in the story of a judge of
the revolutionary events with short intervals, three times again.

With the same simplicity is repeated throughout the Word 'magnificent'
as the highest praise, is bringing the issue is how beautiful the
moon shone, in Shadow of the magnificent tree, the beautiful open
countryside.

    
    
    Strips are not wonderful men of high birth, now in disguise? - You
should not enter our magnificent land. - From the wonderful deed that
carries out those virgin. - And he feels the glorious load. - It was
the splendid pair themselves. - All praised the wonderful water. -
Came to him the tall figure of the beautiful girl meet. - And do not
talk more the glorious words in vain, etc.

Of utmost simplicity are
the following adjectives:

From the exhilarating freedom and equality
of the laudable. - From the sublime Linden worthy dark shaded. - Muses
that her so much favors the warm love. - And so, 'he leads them down
the number of plates. - Tomorrow, we begin to cut the abundant harvest.

Similarly,

the adverbial Accessories:

                    As the host replied with male clever idea. - Quiet
    on it said the son with serious words. - And sure the pharmacist
    replied emphatically, etc
    
    The same pallor of the term in describing the persons moving sensation.

The girl, Hermann says of his beloved:

I desire to lead home alone.
- Wünsch not you still just now, he wants to clear and lively feel
for a girl? - 'Shall I in the arms of the bride, the wife of reliable
I am not enjoying the war?

    
    
              Dorothea of ​​her love for Hermann:
    

But because it was indeed in the heart of the slope was stirring Against
the youth. - Where I am only ashamed and afraid, Releases the confessional
inclination and those foolish hope.

                            
    

Herman blames the pharmacist selfishness,

                    to share joys and sorrows understands
    and will not encourage them by heart.

                                                The joy of the finite
    union of the two lovers is in favor of increased, but still with
economical control of the expression at the end of:

As well I love
the happiness here New prepares me and unlocks the most glorious hopes.

    

Even in natural scenes only very mild colors are applied:

The gorgeous,
wide Landscape that umherschlingt before us in fertile hills.

    

Thus, the description of the harvest, even in the penultimate song of the storm and the moonlight:

So
the two were falling towards the sun, etc

and later:

Herrlich shone the moon, the full, down from the sky, etc

This simplicity and plainness of speech, but not the sense that it constitutes the object not grown.
On the contrary, with the least resources, the poet reaches the deepest Effect. The truth
is, so he awakens as if by magic, the imagination and the mind stirred. No wrong word forces itself
between the subject and the view, no undue Sound blurs the clear clarity that we look up into
the innermost heart of the seal can. Everything just rhetoric, all the artificial flowers,
tropical and metaphors are excluded here.

    A mob taste, bright colors, loves the blunted by spice tongue,
      a childish Sentence that can boast sparkling glass beads, can at
this easy-true speech find no pleasure, which connects the Sun pliant
any time subject to the sensation in their deepest tones and gently
rushes and the dignified all content of the Thought without deduction
and additional to all antique naively expresses.

The magnificent free and peaceful it is, the more it is the poet of violence by increased heat,
increased color and accelerated motion, the effect of matching points
to increase indefinitely.

    Such Agencies are the flowers under the leaves in the wreath:

Give
    also leaves, the splendor of the dazzling flowers to soften; Life
                            also requires quiet leaves in the wreath.

Thus,
    although the portrayal of Hermann's love of words made little
    effort, yet occur more glowing bodies such as the following, where
is the impact more deeply:

I want to see the mouth or from which
a kiss and the "yes me Makes you happy forever, the No zerstöret me
forever. - And sweet longing seized her. - Hermann heard the words
only in passing, his limbs trembled Interior and quiet the whole circle
was now at a time.

If the chaste poet even need a picture, it certainly carries through blissful truth a moving
power in our imagination. A lesser poet would, for example, the opportunity can not take the
storm, which falls on the lovers, to describe with pomp: Here we find only a few strokes, the
practice but a magical effect. They went, they say, against the setting sun, which is wrapped in
a threatening storm clouds and the veil now here, now there shone an ominous light. These words
paint the happiest the state of heaven and earth in the moment when storm clouds to veil the
sun threaten. The rays of light fall on the then burning the field and forest are scattered
and temporarily, appear now and then, alternately swallowed by clouds and darkness the area,
such as a sudden brightening idea flies over the mind, then fly over the sinks back into darkness
unconscious. By Hermann and Dorothea is injected under the pear tree , it is already night, but
the full moon in the sky. Before them, the poet says, were bright lights in masses against each
other as day and the shadows darker nights. The peculiarity but to the world of moonlight in
large masses is so true and simply stated, fact that the excited imagination the whole of
the picture easily accomplished.

    Also in Schiller Expectation that:
    

The moon does its radiant face, The world dissolves in quiet large
masses.

    

    How happy the feeling of the clouds Night is expressed in the verse:

Not
the night which is widely covered with falling clouds.

    Or the feeling of agriculture, extending over fertile plains
    his blessing:
    
    From the Earth to nourish that enlightens far and wide.

Or the feeling wandering flight, opposite to the sense of security, the growing strength granted:

But
the shattered Not the usual way of life, Tear the building down and gnaws away at the garden
and seed Drives the man and the woman from the area of ​​intimate
apartment Dragged her away into error by anxious days and nights,
etc

How much is the poet of truth, not the artificial rules of rhetoric
and stylistics to do is, for example, teaches the place where the
mother asks the son under the pear tree in his confessions continue:
Drive only on c. Here follows directly the Word 'violent' three times,
the word 'sent' twice.

As a further feature of the diction of our epic poem is a certain
width, comfortable Loquacity and graceful fullness mentioned.

    The speech flows everywhere as a slow wide extended Current
    of thought to thought. Such are bodies such as the following:

If
                                            it benefits him
    daily and serve him with the goods. - Where he was the Ehbett
    and where he was accustomed to rest. - You have me At half-true and
half the words caught adjustment. - Seduced by your word and your
major speeches.

From the mind chattering comfort is also the form of sentences and periods, in the the poem,
there is input. Always bright and of course it has a graceful middle between an impassioned,
broken by nothing but stringing sentences and the main rhetorical much intertwined periodicity.
A recurring favorite compound of the sentences is the with 'for', even where the following does not
directly the cause of the foregoing: the Particles it connects in
a very general way with pleasant-chattering argument.

    Examples are everywhere:
    
    Oh, how I give you right, you good girl admirable, Subsidiarity states
that you ask you about the meaning of the parents!

For as I vainly sought his father to serve etc

Or:

But soon enough,
I noted they had me always the best; And that was sensitive to me,
my pride was hurt, but more than Upset me's deeply that they misunderstood
the good will, I entertained against them, especially Minnie, the
youngest.

    Because I was recently passed over for Easter, etc.
    
    And:
    
    Let me speak, my child, and answer your questions.

For your sake I came here and what shall I hide?

    Because I'm blessed with two loving parents, To those
    I help confidentially manage the house and goods, etc.
    
    Or:

    Cheap are you, my friend, good to be among the hosts, That
    people are capable to run the household concerned. For I have probably
    seen many times that one cow and horse Just like sheep just
    for exchange and trade considered, etc

An equally frequent form of transition is 'so', that the stamp also
kindly verbose with peace of mind.

    Where we set up the poem, we come to this link:
    
    And so, 'he leads them down the number of plates. - And so,
    'he feels the glorious load, the heat of the heart. -
    What a servant already done the wohlbegüterten man If thou
    dost, however, has deprived the father of the son, The honor
    for him but also against other citizens showed. And that
    deceived me early with an empty hope the mother. - He knew
    the life and knew the listeners need to Was penetrated by the
    high values ​​of the Scriptures, The reveal to us the people skills
and their attitudes; And so known ', he probably also the most secular
writings.

    
    Still strange, but full of grace is the connection with
    'so well':
    
    What he wanted, that was him under, he held it firmly, too. - For
he speaks of many things in his violent way He no longer is doing,
so he also gives to the failed. - And they passed it around the water,
because the children drank And the woman was drinking with his daughters,
so drank the judge.

    Here belongs also the graceful way in a short Nebenzug
    a main clause without further to be content to follow:

And
    so, sitting surrounded the three the brightest gebohnten
    Round brown table, he stood on massive feet. - And so came
    back down with his daughters Quickly to the other side
    of the market, the wealthy neighbor To be renovated house, the first
merchant of the place In the open carriage, it was manufactured in
Landau.

    We still lead in three places that are characteristic of
    the ruling in the poem set of connection are:
    
    Long have I lived with people and knows to act to entertain
    the white men and women that they satisfied go away from
    me, I know the stranger to flatter complacent. But
    that is because I also finally Schwiegertöchterchen Meet again
    and so I sweeten the deal of trouble. - And it solves the
    possession of himself away from the old owner, Friend himself away
from friends, so dissolves love with love. - Be sacred to you the
day, but do not appreciate life more As another well, and all goods
are deceptive.

                                  
    Thus we read in Reineke Fuchs:

SO shy away the bad conscience Light and day, and it feared the fox
the assembled gentlemen,

what would be prosaic: the fox shunned the
meeting, as the bad conscience of light and day usually shy away.

In general, Hermann and Dorothea could just at the point of the construction period to a rich
source be the instruction. The speech flows as connectionless and they can become so continuous
Context, it moves in the most free passage so full number, the members who logically relate to each
other, are often so far from each other, without ever fully understand losing this relationship, the
principle of epic episode permeates so much of each individual, that one here also to Homer
and the spirit of this poet unity of art and childlike Simpson will be remembered. Jacob Grimm
pointed out in his grammar, find it after epic Hermann and Dorothea, in a single historicum present
tense, while in the Louise Voss Beginning of the third song is gone
from the narrative and Wieland's Oberon by Roman manner such Präsentia
has in abundance.

In all truth and naturalness, the poetic language is different in our poem yet the prose of common
life. The poet achieves this ideality by he seems the bottom of the everyday speech did not
leave, so by all on the same Sedentary settles down. The negligence of the oral speech, he rises
to poetic Freedom: it is at once the word order. This is always the most natural of everyday
speech and never prevented, delayed and forced, as so often in Voss and Klopstock, in speaking
but we have a word that occurred to us only in the course of the speech is to follow, while it actually
should have been moving forward.

    This now applies to the poet as poetic daring, such as

    What a servant already done the man wohlbegüterten

or:

That we should carry out to the well of Linden.

    
    So separated in innumerable places of the poem is the genitive
    of the governing noun.

Just then, so frequently occurring subsidence of the adjective belongs
to the article, the also only heard of poetic language, yet from the
speech of common life springs, where we catch up on the forgotten
adjective quasi-explanatory:

Unmoved and proud, no one wants the
other approach, None of the good words, the first, the tongue move.
- After all, who saw the cities, large and neat does not rest.

    
                            
    Otherwise the offset word order in places such as the following is
ERKA to:

When you desire only to horses only, and testified to the
field. - The one with weaker animals Wanted to go slowly, the other
to rush eagerly.

Further on, the poet rises from the language of prose in the compound adjectives as follows: the much
sought after to urban dwellers, the allverderbliche, vielbedürfende the war, the garden surrounding
houses, the well-timbered barns, wohlumzäunte the vineyard, the well-renewed Church. These adjectives
are so undemanding, so well they fit into German speech but they remind of the ancient poet Language:
[Greek: pamphthartos, polyphthoros, euktimenos, eunaietaôn] and countless
others of Art is the place to the many echoes of the Language of the
ancients and especially of Homer running through the poem to make
carefully.

Although the relationship is so great that Goethe's poem in mind and sound with Homer condition
to the day, so little can be said that the poet would have directly imitated. He was Rather,
penetrate from Homer's intuition and sensibility all and then made on modern soil and using
modern means a poem in his own way exactly the same cheerful purely human still touching impression.
But still, the poet now and again taken over from the old formulas with which he graced the superiority
only plays that contribute to the natural color but the national truth of thought and speech
by small, strange irritating interruptions even more touching to bring out or in harmony with
the most distant ways of ancient human language in its eternal validity to confirm. Thus,
the effect of the poem, the wonderful harmony of its form by those
imitations that are served by a hardly perceptible irony, only increased.

Two

passages remind us of Virgil and Cicero.

He was well aware how many and how unscrupulous were his enemies in Ireland; he was not prepared
to give them the opportunity of saying that he had got his price for the blood of young Irishmen
and the betrayal of his principles. Even apart from the question of salary, the tradition against
acceptance of office under Government till Ireland's claim was satisfied would have been very
hard to break. Yet Redmond saw fully how disastrous would be the effect on Irish opinion if
he were not in the Government and Sir Edward Carson was.

Knowing Ireland as he did, he knew that the acceptance of Sir Edward Carson as a colleague
would be taken in Ireland to imply that the Government had abandoned its support of Home Rule.
Ireland would assume that the Ulster leader would not come in except on his own terms. Redmond
made the strongest representations that he could to the Prime Minister to exclude both Irish
parties to the unresolved dispute. But Sir Edward Carson in those days was making himself very
disagreeable in the House of Commons and Mr. Asquith, as usual, followed the line of least
resistance.

The effect of the Coalition as formed was seen when recruiting in Ireland dropped from 6,000
in April-May to 3,000 in May-June. It stayed at the lower figure for several months, till it
was raised again by efforts for which Redmond was chiefly responsible. I do not know whether
Sir Edward Carson's presence in the Attorney-General's office, or his absence from the Opposition
benches in debates, was worth ten thousand men; but that is a small measure of what was lost
in Ireland by his inclusion.

IV

The formation of the Coalition Government marks the first stage in the history of Redmond's
defeat and the victory of Sir Edward Carson and Sinn Féin.

Of what he felt upon this matter, Redmond at the time said not a word in public. Six months
later, on November 2, 1915, when a debate on the naval and military situation was opened, he
broke silence--and his first words were an explanation of his silence. He had not intervened,
he said, in any debate on the war since its inception. "We thought a loyal and as far as possible
silent support to the Government of the day was the best service we could render." Volume slipped through the treacherous
and forth, and began to squawk indignantly cinnabar, "What you handle it in such a terrible
my body around, but the stupid thing you can hang, as it will, minister I am Now once and shall
stay there! "-

"What," the prince said, now angry, "What have I Ordensraete if ruecksichts Tapes of those great
institutions exist which ran counter to all my will? - Patience,
my dear minister cinnabar! soon will it be different!

"

By command of the princes had to now come to the High Council, the two philosophers and a naturalist,
is level, traveled through the North Pole coming, were begotten, the about the question of how
the cleverest way to the Minister in the bond of cinnabar gruengefleckten Tigers to take deliberate,
should. In order for this important advice related forces collect, all members were given up,
not thinking to eight days earlier, to this to be able to execute better and yet remain active in
the service of the state, however, However, to deal with the accounting. The streets outside
the palace, where the Ordensraete, Philosophers and scientists should keep their meeting, were
covered with thick straw, so that the rattle of the cars have the men do not disturb, and therefore
could not just be drumming, music made, not even speaking loudly in the vicinity of the palace.
In the palace itself stumbled all around on the thick felt boots,
and agreements are made by Characters.

Seven days passed from early morning until late in the evening had taken the meetings, and was
still thinking about a decision.

The prince, very impatient, sent once over the other way and let them say it should in the
devil's name they can think of something but finally spared. That helped, but very and nothing.

The
naturalist had explored possible as much natural cinnabar, height and width of its Rueckenauswuchses
taken and the most accurate calculation about it submitted to the
Plenary.

It was he who suggested at last, whether you pull the Schneider Theater for the advice may.

As strange as this proposal might appear, but he was in fear and misery in which all were accepted unanimously.

The
theater Schneider Kees was an extremely clever, clever man, As it the hard Case was argued,
as he looked through the calculations of the naturalist, he was with the finest resources,
such as put the ribbon on the standard seats alma vinegars can, at
hand.

On chest and back should namely mounted a certain number buttons and the ribbon be buttoned it. The
attempt succeeded over the masses well.

The prince was delighted and approved the proposal of the Religious Council, the Order of the
gruengefleckten Tigers nunmehro be divided into different classes, the number of buttons, which
he added was.

For example, Order of the gruengefleckten Tigers with two buttons - with three buttons, etc.
The Minister cinnabar became the distinctive mark that otherwise require no other could the order
of twenty AGAINST jeweled buttons, for just twenty buttons required the strange shape of his body.

The tailor Kees received the Order of the gruengefleckten Tigers with two gold buttons and was
because the prince of him, despite his happy thought, for a poor tailor held and therefore did
not want to be dressed by him to the Privy large costumer the princes appointed. -

From the window of his country house of Dr. Prosper Alpanus looked thoughtfully down at his
He had the park all night is busy trying to make von Balthasar's horoscope and some of them
published, which covered the small tin. On the most important, which go with the kids in the
garden when he was overheard by Adrian and Pulcher. Just wanted to call his Prosper Alpanus unicorns,
that it produces the shell would like because he wanted to continue after high-Jakob home
when a car daherrasselte and before Gattertor the park was quiet. It was said that the beauty of
Rose Stiftsfraeulein wish the Mr Doctor to speak. "Very welcome," said Prosper Alpanus, and
the lady went into it. She wore a long black dress and was wrapped in fog like a matron. Prosper
Alpanus, seized by a strange idea, took his pipe and let the sparkling rays the button to drop
the lady.

There it was, as lightning flashed rustling around her, and she stood in a white transparent
dress, gleaming white Libellenfluegel at the shoulders, and braided red roses by the hair.
- "Well, well," whispered Prosper, took the pipe under his robe, and once again was the lady in the previous
costume there.

Prosper Alpanus they kindly invited to settle down. Miss von Schoen said Rose now how long ago it was
their intention to visit the Doctor in his country home, to make the acquaintance of a man whom
the whole country as a highly talented, campaigns charity Have praise. Certainly he would grant
her request, to the nearby Fraeuleinstifts medically probable as the old ladies that was often ill
and were left without help. Prosper Alpanus politely replied that while he has long since abandoned
the practice, but exceptionally visit the canons, would not if it did, and then asked whether they themselves,
the young lady suffer from Rose Schoen, perhaps at some evils. The young lady assured me that
they only now and then a rheumatic feel twitching in the limbs when they are at the morning air
cold, but now is perfectly healthy, and started some indifferent conversation. Prosper asked whether,
since it was still early morning, perhaps, would take a cup of coffee
and the Rose Schoen said that Stiftsfraeuleins like never disdain.

Coffee was brought, but so also did Prosper strive to pour out, the cups were empty, despite
of coffee from the pot flows. "Well, well," smiled Alpanus Prosper, "that is evil coffee!
- Have you, my best lady, but just prefer to pour the coffee. "

"With pleasure," replied the young lady and took the pot.

But despite no drop poured from the can, but the cup was full and full, and the coffee spilled over
on the table, on the dress of Stiftsfraeuleins. - She sat quickly
down the pot at once the coffee was gone without a trace.

Both Prosper and Alpanus Stiftsfraeulein looked now for a while in
silence with weird eyes.

"They were," now began the lady, "you were my doctor, certainly a very attractive Book deals,
as I entered. "

"Indeed," replied the doctor, "This book contains do strange things."

He wanted to open the little book in gilt cover, which lay before him on the table. But that was
a very vain, because with a loud slap, slap the proposed Book again
and again together.

"Well, well," said Prosper Alpanus, "you try it with the stubborn things here, my dear young lady!
"

He gave it to the lady the book, and she touched it only opened itself by itself. But all the
leaves detaches itself and spread from a giant folio and rustled
around in the room.

Startled, the girl went back. Now the doctor, the book struck out
with violence, and all Leaves disappeared.

"But," said Prosper Alpanus now with a gentle smile, as he rose from his seat, "But my best madam,
we spoil the time with such a vile Tafelkuensten; because, unlike ordinary Tafelkunststuecke
it're not, we drove up to now, We had better proceed to higher things. "" I want to leave, "said
the lady, rising the front seats.

"Oh," Prosper Alpanus, "said the would like to tackle but probably not very well without my
will; then, my lady, I must tell you only, you are now totally in my power. "

"In your power," the lady exclaimed angrily, "in your power, sir -
foolish imagination!"

And it spread from her silken dress, and she floated as the most beautiful
Camberwell on the ceiling of the room.

But once whistled and roared after her as well Prosper Alpanus efficient Stag Beetle. Quite tired of
mourning cloak fluttered down and ran as a small Profile Send private
on the ground around.

But the stag beetle ran mewing and puffing after him as gray cat. The little mouse got up again as a brilliant
hummingbird, as collected all sorts of strange voices around the villa, and all sorts of wonderful
insects cause sumseten with Waldgefluegel them strange, and a golden net spun round the windows.
Stood with Suddenly the fairy Rosabelverde, shining in all its splendor
and majesty, the gleaming white Dress, the sparkling Diamantguertel
looked around a bit, white and red roses through the dark curls braided
middle of the room.

Before her the Magus in gold-embroidered robe, a brilliant crown in the main, the pipe with the
brilliant fire button on the hand.

Rosabelverde walked up to the Magus, accounted for as a golden comb
her hair and broke, as he was of glass, on the marble floor.

"Woe is me - hurt me!" cried the fairy.

Suddenly sat back in the Stiftsfraeulein Rose Schoen long black dress at the coffee table, and
its opposite the Doctor Prosper Alpanus.

"I thought," Prosper said Alpanus very quiet by the Chinese cups in the most glorious steaming
coffee from Mocha poured without hindrance, "I thought my best gracious Miss, we both were worried
now sufficiently well, as we are together in it. - Very sorry it
does me that her beautiful hair comb broke on my hard floor.

"

"Only my clumsiness," replied the lady, einschluerfend with delight the coffee "Is to blame. On
this ground must be careful not to let something fall, for err I have not, these stones with
the most wonderful hieroglyphics describes the many just ordinary marble veins beduenken would
like. "

"Worn talismans, madam," said Prosper, "talismans are worn, these stones, nothing more. "

"But the best doctor," cried the young lady, "How is it possible that we do not know us learned since
the earliest time that we never once met on our way? "

"Diverse Education, best lady," said Prosper Alpanus, "diverse education is only to blame! While
you as the most promising girls in Dschinnistan entirely your could be over-rich nature, your
lucky genius, I was a student truebseliger, included in the pyramids and listened to the professor
Kollegia Zoroaster, an ancient Knasterbart, but the damned much knew. In the reign of worthy
princes Demetrius I took my residence in this small charming little country. "

"What," said the lady, "and were not referred to as the Enlightenment Fuerst Paphnutius Sedelnikov
""

Not at all, "said Prosper," I managed, rather, my own I am quite to conceal, as I am struggling,
Aufklaerungssachen concerning special knowledge to prove in all kinds of writings that I became
popular. I proved that without the princes It never will, thunder and lightning would have to, and that
we nice weather and a good harvest solely due to his nobility and
his efforts, the inner in the chambers about it as very deliberate,
while outside the common people in the plowed field and sown.

Fuerst Paphnutius then got up to the Privy Oberaufklaerungs-President, a job that I threw
my shell as an onerous burden, as the storm passed. - Secretly, I was useful, as I could.
That is what we, me and you, madam, call truly useful. - Do you know well, the best lady, that
I was the one who warned you before the collapse of Aufklaerungspolizei?
- That I am, you have the possession of little things like thank you
showed me earlier? - O my God!

Love pin lady Just look out these windows yet! - Recognize no more
than this park, in the They often strolled and talked to the friendly
ghosts, in the bushes - Flowers - live sources? - Did this park, I
saved through my science.

He is still there as at the time of the old Demetrius. Fuerst barsanuphe cares, except the sky
grant it thanks, not much to the magic being, he is an affable Mr.
and lets everyone conjure someone so much it feels like when he lets
it remember not only the duties and properly charged.

So I live here, like you, dear lady, in your pen, happy and carefree "! -

"Doctor," cried the young lady by her overthrew the tears from his eyes, "Doctor, what to say
You! - Which enlightenment! - Yes, I this grove, know where I enjoyed the most blissful joy!
- Doctor! - Noble man to whom I owe so much! - And you can get my little schuetzling so hard
to follow? -

"You have," replied the doctor, "you have my best lady, by your innate
Good nature carried away, squandered your gifts to one unworthy.

Cinnabar and remains, regardless of your goods containing Help there,
a little misshapen rascal, now, because the golden comb broken, is
very into my hand.

"

"Have pity, O Doctor!" pleaded the girl.

"But just take a look kindly to me," said Prosper, by the lady Balthazar
Horoscope, which he had been held up.

The young lady looked into it and then called full of pain: "Yes - if there is such I must depart,
the higher power. - Poor cinnabar "! -

"Confess, best lady," the doctor said, smiling, "you admit that the
ladies often put up in the most bizarre indeed, the idea which gave
birth to the moment, restless and ruthless persecution and every touch
of another painful conditions are not heedless! - Cinnabar be served
must be fate, but he should still be undeserved Honorary reach.

So I pay homage to your power, your kindness, your virtue. I value very gracious Miss! "

"Wonderful, excellent man," cried the young lady, "you remain my friend!" -

"Evermore," replied the doctor. "My friendship, my heartfelt sympathy to you, dear Fee will
never stop. If you have comforted me in all cases of questionable Life, and - oh you drink coffee
with me as often as you to sense '.

"Farewell, my worthy Magus, never shall I your grace, never forget the coffee!" So said the lady, getting
up, taken from internal emotion, for cutting.

Prosper Alpanus accompanied her to the Gattertor, while all the wonderful voices of the forest
on sounded the sweetest way.

stood outside the gate, instead of Miss cars with unicorns crystal-covered shell the doctor behind
the spread of the beetle's shiny gold wings. On the box sat holding the silver pheasant and kuckte,
the golden reins in its bill, the lady with wise eyes.

In the happiest time of their most glorious Feenlebens feels the pin lady added, as The car, beautiful
sounding, rustled through the fragrant forest.

Balthasar, who was hiding in the village of high-Jakob got home from the Referendarius Pulcher
Kerepes from a letter of content: "Our affairs, best friend Balthasar, go from bad to worse and
worse. Our enemy, the hideous cinnabar, Minister of Foreign Affairs and has become the great Order
of the gruengefleckten Tigers obtained with twenty buttons. He has risen to become the favorite
of princes and sets anything by what he wants.

Professor Mosch Terpin is quite beside himself, he puffs up in the stupid pride. By his future
son-mediation, he has the post of Director General all natural Affairs in the State received
a job to him a lot of money and gives a lot of other emoluments. As a named general censored and
revised he solar and lunar eclipses, and weather in the prophecies in the state allowed Calendars
explored and in particular the nature of the residence and the area. This employment sake he gets from
the royal forests of the rarest birds, the rarest animals, it, precisely in order to explore their
nature, can cook and eats. He also writes now (At least he is there before), a treatise about
it, why the wine tastes different than water and he expressed, other effects, which he will
dedicate his son. Cinnabar has It means that studying the treatise Mosch Terpin for all days in the
princely wine cellar allowed. He already has half a hogshead of old Rhine wine, and several
dozen bottles of champagne verstudiert and now get a cask Alikante. - The butler wringing his
hands! - How is the professor who, as you know, the biggest glutton
on earth, helped and He would be the most comfortable lives of the
world leaders he would not often when a hailstorm the fields has devastated
the country suddenly to declare for the princely Paechter, why did
it hailed, so get the stupid devil a bit of science, the future beware
of the like and can not always allowed to require the adoption of
the lease, one thing half the blame no one but herself

"The Minister
may, the good beating for you given him get over, not.

He has given you revenge sworn. You will be allowed no more you can see in Kerepes. Also follows
me it much because I have it mysteriously, to style of a winged lady I overheard. - As long as cinnabar
remains of princes darling, I will probably no Ordinary items can
lay claim.

My evil star has it that I always use the monster appliances together, where I did not suspect,
and in a way that I must be fatal. Recently is the Minister in full dress, with swords, star
and ribbon, in the Zoological Cabinet and has untergestemmt after his usual manner, the floor,
on tiptoe placed in suspension, the glass cabinet where the rarest American monkeys are. Foreign; The Seen
In approaching the Cabinet, and one that the small root man beholding
calls aloud: "Oh! - What a darling monkey! - What a cute animal! -
The pride of the whole Cabinet! - Oh, how the little nice to say Aefflein?
where in the country?

"

"As the overseer of the Cabinet talks very seriously, as he touched cinnabar shoulder: 'Yes,
a very nice specimen, an excellent Brazilian, who called Mycetes Beelzebub - Simia Beelzebub
Linnei - niger, barbatus, podiis caudaque apice brunneis - howler '-

"'Sir,' - the little snorts now the overseer of, 'Sir, I think you
are mad or nine of the devil, I am not Beelzebub caudaque - not a
howler monkey, I am cinnabar, the Minister cinnabar, Knight of the
Tiger with twenty buttons gruengefleckten!

" - Not far away I stand and break - Had it claimed the lives on the spot, I could not help me -
From whinnying into laughter.

"'Are you there, too, Mr. Referendarius?" he snores at me by red glow from his eyes witches sparkles.

"God
knows how it happened that the stranger him constantly for the most beautiful and rarest monkeys
did they ever see, and it certainly did feed them Lampertsnuessen that they pulled out of
the bag. Vermillion now became so completely beside himself that he in vain for Breath and grabbed
the legs denied him the service. The valet had summoned take him on the arm and wear down in the
coach.

"Even I can not explain why this story to me a glimmer of hope There.

It is the first cake, done the little haunted absurdity.

"This much is certain that cinnabar recently very disturbed in the early morning from the garden
has come. The winged woman must be failed, because it is over with the beautiful Curls. His
hair is shaggy herabhaengen on the back and Fuerst said barsanuphe have: 'Do not neglect your
toilet so much, dear Minister, I will Send my hairdresser! " - Whereupon cinnabar very politely
expressed, he would the guy can throw out the window when he came. "Great soul! you will not
come in, ' then the prince has spoken and very cried!

"Farewell, dear Balthasar! Do not give up all hope, and hide yourself well to avoid Do not fall!
"-

Quite in despair about what he wrote the friend who ran deep into Balthasar in the forest and burst
into loud complaints.

"Let's hope I do," he said, "I should hope not, because all hope gone, because all stars set and somber
- dark night embraces me disconsolate? Unhappy fate! - I am subject to the dismal power that came into
my life perishable! - Awesome, that I was hoping for rescue from Alpanus Prosper, Prosper Alpanus
of this, of myself with arts of hell and lured me away from Kerepes drove by the beatings, which I give the
mirror image had, rained on cinnabar true back, "" Candida Oh! - If I could only forget the
child of heaven! - But powerful, stronger than ever glows spark of love in me! - Everywhere
I see the lovely form of the beloved, who with sweet Smile longingly stretched out his arms to
me! - I know! - Do you love me, dear sweet Candida, and that's just
my hopeless killing pain, that I do not able to save from the terrible
enchantment that caught up! - Tell-tale Prosper! what I did to you
that you mocked me so cruel!

"-

The deep dusk had fallen, all colors of the forest dwindled down to a dull gray. Since it was
as light as a special luster virulent evening light through trees
and shrubbery, and a thousand Insektlein charged with rustling flap
of an butterfly buzzing in the air.

Luminous Gold Kaefer swung back and forth between them and colorful fluttering butterflies plastered
and sprinkled scented flowers dust around him. The whispering and humming became softer, suessfluesternder
Music that is comforting to put Balthazar torn chest. Above him twinkled stronger the radiant
splendor. He looked up and saw with astonishment Alpanus Prosper, based on a beautiful insect
that a dissimilarity in the most gorgeous colors gorgeous not dragonfly therefore floated.

Prosper Alpanus fell down to the young man, at whose side he sat, while the dragonfly flew into
a bush and the song matched that sounded throughout the forest.

He touched the boy's forehead with the wonderfully brilliant flowers, which he has in hand was
wearing and immediately ignites, in von Balthasar's inward fresh courage.

"You do," said Prosper Alpanus now in a soft voice, "you do me great wrong, dear Balthasar,
as you scold me cruel and treacherous at the moment as I managed, is to be master of the spell,
the disturbed your life, than I do, just to speed up related to comfort
you, me on my swing and creating colorful Lieblingsroesslein ride,
with everything provided, which can serve your salvation. - But nothing
is more bitter than the pain of love nothing like the impatience of
a desperate mind in love and longing. - I forgive you, for me it did
not go even better when I was about two thousand years an Indian princess
loved, welcomed balsam, and the magician Lothos, who is my best Friend
was in despair, only pulling his beard, which is why I, as you can
see, even no Wear to not let it be done similar things. - But all
of this to tell you extensive, would probably be very out of place
here, as every lover listen only to his love like that he alone holds
worth mentioning, as every poet hears only his verses like. So the
point! - Know that the neglected vermilion monster of a poor Bauerweibes
and is actually called Klein Zach. Just out of vanity, he has the
proud name of cinnabar adopted. I say most solemnly,
     that in that task we were absolutely entitled to the sympathy and
     the assistance of the Government and the War Office. I am sorry to
     say we got neither."

He disclaimed all imputation upon the Prime Minister or the Under-Secretary, Mr. Tennant--exceptions
which pointed the reference to Lord Kitchener.

     "The fact remains that when we were faced with that difficult and
     formidable task, practically every suggestion that we made, based
     on the strength of our own knowledge of what was suitable for
     Ireland and the conditions there, was put upon one side. "My loveliest lady!" sighed Balthasar from the innermost
to as Candida, Candida, the sweet itself, a cup of steaming tea to him offered. Candida but
looked at him with shining eyes and said, "This is rum and maraschino, Biscuits, pumpernickel, dear
Balthasar, but only you access to compliant to Your discretion, "but instead to look to rum
and maraschino, biscuits or pumpernickel or no access was the enthusiastic Balthasar eyes full
of painful sorrow of the most intimate Love not turn away from the lovely maiden, and struggled for
words to express the heart and soul should, he felt just. Since it took but the professor of aesthetics,
a big strong tree Man with huge fist from behind, spun him around, he more tea water on the floor buried,
just as proper, and cried in a thundering voice: "Best Lukas Cranach, Do not drink the vile water,
spoiling the German stomach total - there in the other rooms, our brave Mosch a battery of
the most beautiful bottles of fine Rhine wine planted, which we will now have to play "- he
dragged the unhappy youth continued.

But from the next room they came to meet the Professor Mosch Terpin,
a very small, strange little man by the hand and shouting, "Here,
ladies and gentlemen, put, I give you a highly gifted with the rarest
properties Juengling before, where it is not difficult will fall to
earn your goodwill, your respect.

It is the young gentleman cinnabar, the first came yesterday to our university and intends
to study the rights "- Fabian Balthasar and recognized at first glance, the strange little guy
who at the gate was blown against them and the horses plunged.

"Shall I," Fabian said softly to Balthasar, "should I still challenge the Little Mandrake on blowpipe
or Schusterpfriem? On the other weapons but I can not operate against this formidable opponent.
"

"Shame on you," said Balthasar, "Shame on you, that you mock the neglected man which, as you can
hear, has the rare qualities and replaced as by the spiritual value,
what the nature of his physical attributes failed.

"Then he turned to the small and said: "I hope not, sir cinnabar that your case from his horse
yesterday about bad have had consequences be? "cinnabar rose but by a small stick, which he in the
hand carried back under propped on the foot peaks in the height, so that it corresponds to
Balthasar almost to the belt, presented the head threw in the neck, looked wild with sparkling Eyes
up and spoke in strange schnurrendem bass tone, "I do not know what to do of which you speak,
sir! fall from a horse? - I fell off the horse? - You know probably not, that I am the best rider
that can give it, that I never dated Horse fall that I joined in as volunteers under the cuirassiers
the campaign and officers commons and gave lessons in riding on the ring! - Hm hm - I from
- from a horse fall Horses fall "- He wanted to turn around quickly, the floor, on which he
relied, but slipped, and the little staggered over and over, the Balthasar's feet. Balthasar
reached down to the Kleiner, aufzuhelfen him, and unwittingly touched his head. Since the boy uttered
a piercing scream that echoed throughout the hall and the Quests started up frightened out
of their seats. They surrounded the Balthasar, and asked confused why he cried because for heaven's
sake, so horrible. "Do not take it amiss, good lord Balthazar, "said the Professor Mosch Terpin,"
but that was a bit strange Fun. Probably because they wanted us to believe it kick anyone
here a Cat's tail! " "Cat - away with the cat!" cried a lady and weak nerves fell into a swoon,
and with the cry of "cat - cat" - ran a couple of old gentlemen, suffering from the same idiosyncrasy,
out the door.

Candida, which poured out her whole Riechflaeschchen on the fainting lady spoke quietly to
Balthasar, "But what you also sent for mischief with your ugly piercing Miau, dear Balthasar!
"

This did not even know what hit him. Glowing red across the face with indignation and shame,
He could bring out a word, not to say that yes the little man cinnabar and he was, the gemauzt
so horrible.

The Professor Mosch Terpin saw the young man's terrible embarrassment. He approached him in
a friendly and said, "Well, now, dear Balthasar, are you still quietly
I have it all. noticed.

Stooping to the ground, jumping on all fours, you received the ill-treated grim hangover after wonderfully.
I love otherwise very similar natural history games, but here in the literary tea "-" But,
"blurted out Balthasar," but, most excellent Lord Professor, I was not. "-" All right - all
right, "he was the professor in the speech. Candida joined them. "Comfort me," the professor
said to the latter, "but the consoling me Balthasar good, which is completely enter all the
mischief about what had happened. "

The good-natured Candida did the poor Balthasar, the confused look
with niedergesenktem stood before her, very sorry.

She held out her hand and whispered with a gracious smile: "There are also quite funny people
who are afraid of cats so horrible."

Balthasar pressuring Candida's hand with fervor to her lips. Candida let the soulful Look in
her eyes of heaven rest upon him. He was delighted in the highest heaven, and thought not to
cinnabar and cats screaming. - The tumult was over, made the peace again. At the tea table sat the
weak-nerved lady and enjoyed several biscuits, which they dipped in rum, assuring the like to
the refreshment of mind threatened hostile power, and the sudden terror follow longingly hope!
-

The two old men out there that really a volatile male between the
legs run, went back and looked calm, like several others, the table.

Balthasar, Fabian, the professor of aesthetics, several young people sat down to women. Mr. cinnabar
had however herangerueckt a foot bank and was on the same means increased
the sofa, where he is now in the middle of two women sat proud and
sparkling eyes to be tossed.

Balthasar believed that come the right moment, with his poem about the love of Purple Rose Nightingale
to back out. He expressed therefore associated with the bashful, as it is for young poets
in the tradition that he might, not fear it, and disgust to arouse
boredom, he could kind of indulgence of the Assembly Honored hope
it would dare to read a poem, the latest product of his muse.

Since women already sufficiently discussed about all what happened in New in town the girls
the last ball at the President talked out properly, and even over the normal form of the latest
Huete been agreed since the men under two hours in could expect more
food and watering, it was asked Balthasar unanimously, the The wonderful
benefit society so do not deny.

Balthasar drew the neatly written manuscript out and read.

His own work, which in fact came from truly Dichtergemuet with full force with lots of activity hervorgestroemt,
thrilled him more and more.

His talk, more passionate rising betrayed the inner glow of a loving heart. He trembled with delight
when sighs - Oh, some quiet - the women, some men cry of: "Wonderful - excellent - divine!"
it certain that his poem all enraptured.

At last he had finished. Since they all shouted: "What a poem - what thoughts - what imagination!
- What beautiful verses - which sounds good - thanks - thanks to you, my good lord Cinnabar, for the divine
pleasure "-

"What, how?" cried Balthasar, but no one paid him any attention, but crashed on cinnabar, the puffed
up on the sofa like a small turkey, and snoring with anti-voice: "Please very pretty - very
pretty please - have to take so be content! - Is a little thing that I just last night to
write down all speed "- But the professor of aesthetics shouted:" excellent - Godly cinnabar!
Bosom friend, except me, you're the first poet, there is now on earth! - Come to my heart, beautiful
soul "- He broke the little ones on the couch in the air and hugged and kissed him. Cinnabar
behaved very unruly here. He worked with the little feet on the professor's big belly around
and squawks, "Let me go - Let me go - it hurts me - hurt - hurt me scratch 'your eyes out -
I'll bite' you the nose in two! "-" No, "said the professor, as he sat the child on the Sofa, "no,
kind friend, not the exaggerated modesty!" - Mosch Terpin was now
also approached from the table, took the vermilion hands, pressed
it and spoke very seriously: "Well, young man - not too much, no,
not enough people spoke to me of the high genius that you inspired.

"" Who is it, "cried again, the professor of aesthetics in full of enthusiasm, "who is it of
you young women, the beautiful vermilion his poem, the intimate feeling of the purest love pronounce
worth a kiss? "

There stood on Candida, drew near to full glow on the cheeks, the boy knelt down, and kissed him
on the foul mouth with blue lips. "Yes," cried Balthasar now, as the madness suddenly recognized,
"yes, cinnabar - Cinnabar Divine, you have deep meaning made the nightingale and the Purple Rose,
You be the magnificent reward you get! "-

And with that he tore the Fabian into the next room and said, "Do me a favor and look quite fast
to me and then tell me honestly if I am the student or Balthasar not sure if you really Fabian,
whether we're home in Mosch Terpin, whether we are in dreams - Whether we are mad - I pluck
the nose or shakers myself together so I just wake up from this nightmare cursed! "-

"How like," said Fabian, "as you like because you behave just as great out of pure light Jealousy,
because Candida kissed the little ones. Admit you have but saying that the poem which the boy
read, in fact, was excellent. "-" Fabian, "Balthasar cried with the Expression of the deepest astonishment,
"what are you talking about?" "Well," said Fabian, "now yes, the poem of the little ones was excellent,
and indulged in 'I gave him Candida's kiss. - In general appears behind the strange little man to
put all sorts of things that is worth more than a nice Shape.

But what also concerns itself his character, he comes to me now nothing less than so outrageous
steps at first.

While reading the poem embellishes the inner excitement Gesichtszuege his, so he often seemed
to be a graceful well-grown youth, However, he hardly protruded over
the table.

Enter your useless jealousy, become friends up as a poet with the
poet!

"

"What," cried Balthasar, snarled, "what - even become friends with the cursed changeling? I would like
to strangle with these fists? "

"So," Fabian said, "you seal up because of all reason. But let us in the hall go back, go find something
new, since I hear loud cheers.

"

Balthasar mechanically followed his friend in the hall.

As they entered, the Professor Mosch Terpin stood alone in the middle, the instruments still
in the hand with which he made any physical experiment, rigid amazement
on his face.

The whole party had gathered around the small tin, which, untergestemmt the floor, stood on tiptoe
and took the applause with a proud look, to him from all sides streamed.

They turned back to the professor, who is another very like flying tricks made. No sooner was
it finished than turn all the little surround shouted: "Wonderful - excellent; dear cinnabar
"! -

Finally jumped Mosch Terpin toward the little ones and called ten
times stronger than any other factors: "Wonderful - excellent, dear
tin!"

It was in the company of the young Prince Gregor, who studied at the university. The prince was the
most graceful figure that could only see, and it was his behavior so elegant and casual, that
the high birth, the habit of principal in the moving circles, is clearly expressed.

Greg Fuerst it was, the more of cinnabar and not him as the finest poet, the ablest physicists
praised all masses.

Strangely, the group was that both were standing together.

Against the magnificent landscaped Gregor stood very strange from the tiny little man, with highly stretched
up nose to receive very little on the thin little legs could. All eyes of the women were executed,
but not to the princes, but to the little ones, who, raising himself on tiptoe, again and again
sank, and so up and down like a staggered Cartesian devil.

The Professor Mosch Terpin went to Balthazar, and said, "What do you
say to my schuetzling, to my dear cinnabar?

Much behind the man, and now I look at him so, I suspect perhaps the real explanation, it might
have with him. The preacher, who brought him up and has recommended to me, spoke more about
his descent from very mysterious. View But she only the noble decency to be elegant, easy-going
demeanor. He is certain of princely Blood, maybe even a king's son "- The moment was reported,
the meal was done. Cinnabar stumbled awkwardly towards Candida, took her hand and clumsily led them
to the dining room.

Full fury of the hapless Balthasar ran through the dark night, through storm and wind Rain continued
to return home.

On a great mossy rock in the most isolated forest Balthasar sat and
looked thoughtfully down to the depth at which a continuous stream
roared Felsstuecken still intermediate and dense Overgrown bushes.

Dark clouds were so low and dipped behind the mountains, the Rustle of trees, the waters sounded
like a muffled whimpering, and screaming in between Raptors that rose from the dark thicket
in the vast heavens and nachschwangen the fleeing clouds. -

The Balthasar was when he heard the beautiful voices of the forest in the desolate action of
nature, as he himself would have to be lost in that action, as if his whole being, only the Unverwindlichsten
feeling of the deepest pain. His heart wanted to jump in front of melancholy, and by often
tears trickled from his eyes, it was as looked the spirits of the Forest stream up to him
and stretched up his arms in the snow-white waves, pull him down in the cool ground.

Since floating from a distance through the air so bright cheery and laid Hoernerklang is comforting
to his chest, and the desire awoke in him and with her sweet hope. He looked around, and by
the horns forttoenten, seemed to him the green shade of the forest not so sad, lamenting not so the
noise of the wind, the whisper of the bushes. He came to words.

"No," he exclaimed, jumping up from his seat and with brilliant look into the distance looked,
"no, not yet vanished all hope - it is only too certain that any gloomy mystery, some evil magic
has entered disturbing in my life, but I break this spell, and should I go under it! When I finally
sat down, overcome by the feeling that would burst my breast, the sweet, sweet love of my Candida
confessed, I read felt it not in her looks, I do not at the pressure
of her hand in mine Salvation? - But as soon as the damn little monster
can see is him all the love faces.

To her, the accursed monster, hanging Candida's eyes, and yearning
Sighs escape from her breast when the clumsy boy approached her or
even her hand touched. - There must be some mysterious explanation
with him have, and I ought to silly Old wives' tales believe, I would
say that the boy was bewitched and could do it, how to maintains,
do to tell people. Is not it great that all over the abominable, by
and neglected little man scoff and laugh and then again, does the
little one in between, hawk him as the wisest, most learned, even
the most well made Mr Studiosum, which is just below us? - What do
I say! I will not even nearly so, is I do not often before, was spared
as cinnabar and handsome? - Only in the presence of Candida The magic
has no power over me is there and remains Mr cinnabar a stupid, disgusting
Little Mandrake. - Yes! - I brace myself against the hostile power,
a dark idea rests deep inside me, something unexpected will give me
the gun in his hand against the evil fiend! "-

Balthasar sought the
way back to Kerepes. I do not believe that there was ever
     enough Germans born into this world to depress them. If it were
     possible to depress them at all, it can only be done by pursuing a
     course of embittered controversy in this country--as to which was
     the right way or the wrong way of conducting affairs at the front. However, we ask for permission but the vorbelobten Lukretien, this chapter a little practical
application to which they have taken it may not be close, to be allowed. These ladies (with all
respect we owe them, it was said) would to defraud a lot when they thought that we have the weaknesses
of so amiable Creature than the beautiful Danae had realized only reveal this so that they would
have an opportunity their self-love to tickle it. We are in fact not so very new to the world that
we should persuade us that each one, which is about the conduct of our Danae is annoyed at
her place would have been wiser.
 The national
life is presented to us in the epic in a single limited indeed, and it comes through a particular
situation, by certain purposes and acts as a specific individual image to view. Conflict and conflict
also requires the epic, but this conflict is very different from the dramatic. In the drama moral
powers are in conflict, the Subject that is on the point of their collision is, as a basis. Or
the individual individual makes his pathos, the passion of his inner drive the objective order of things
against the same, it will cross with his subjective purposes, of fate and the moral necessity
and makes going to the tragic experience of his finitude. In the epic world, but there is no
conflict so deep, and the course of their destiny joins the efforts of individuals not impede
raises and promotes it. The epic conflict therefore destroyed the peace of the people do not,
without the harmonious development of the nation as a whole disturbing, it produces only an invigorating
exercise. A proper epic collision therefore, the war in which the nation shall exercise their powers
and accelerates growth and development feels, except the war may not be internal, in the bosom
of the people even broken out, no Dynasty battle as in Shakespeare, no fraternal strife are for
the inheritance of the throne, because then we are on the low ground of the dramatic conflict.
Also features such as the discovery of the Portuguese at Camoens, a cruise like Tasso are a beautiful
epic material: there also pile the obstacles, the dangers only to be overcome, and the resistance
of the Reality only serves at every step, this really complete and happy to seize. On this general
ground epic conflict now enters the very individual epic event on, and in their move to epic
characters. The character of the epic hero hovers like the incident in the middle between the basic national
and his individual particularity. He is what can be anybody, what everyone is basically: this is
in his late Walt nothing else than the general livelihood, all with. His quest is not a fight,
not with fate or with the people surrounding nature. He does not transform the world and realize
something still existing in his mind, but in reality self-direction, it follows the course of
things in a more external events intertwined than by actual fact, the ever springing in the
interior of the subject in the world of objects prevails, the transformative nature for purposes
of his freedom. In Epic is not so complicated psychological gears, no hidden motive, the actions flow
out of the instinct of the whole. Told the story flows quietly past us; the external process, circumstances,
coincidences, events, that which the hero meets, not the hero himself as an inherently intentions
of moving or of disputing the motives Equilibrated personality in the epic is the essential.
Then allow all historical characters in epic and dramatic divide. The epic hero is only a Concentration
of the nation and of the time, what he wants and feels is the will and feeling of all. He
is therefore always happy, he is the favorite of fortune and the gods are with him. It carries
the force of circumstances differ from success to success, obstacles and inhibitions are own
interior is open, moving in harmony, no individual choice of a Guy rips the Fellowship with
all others, and by he performs a comprehensive work with size, this accomplishment rather the
unconscious are the things themselves tragic case of the characters, that of the pure opposite
of epic are to outrage the religious harmony has become. In ages far advanced civilization
in isolation of the gifted farsighted genius; He feels the dull mass compared to higher insight,
overwhelming force in itself, forming the first ray of the coming age, in the fight against the
status quo as it falls Victims, the tenacious habit of limitations against it faded slowly, or
he overcomes the resistance rises up to the highest luster and will force the world to his purposes. But
since overtaken him for the profound expression of the ancients the envy of the gods who are
not can not tolerate that a mortal fair with them and the control of their world government Hands
snatch. By making his individual pathos for the sole law, he disturbs the Whole complex of moral
forces, which in a mutual penetration of life, and his Power and size to one side is his weakness
after the other, the broken order shall be restored, the masses react against him and where he stood
at the highest crash he most deeply, in the moment when his plans to the success of the next,
they were falling in dust. The gods hate, love the epic hero and destroy the tragic. Prometheus
is the true type of tragic hero. Caesar, Xerxes, who in his arrogance the Hellespont flogged,
Ajax, the Pallas falls into ruin, are tragic characters were therefore chosen by the poets, from
Shakespeare, Aeschylus and Sophocles. Some who figures in world history, according as they are
apprehended, the more tragic or the epic nature, such as Napoleon. In the first stage of his life
as a senior general in Italy and Egypt, he is the epic hero, the rocker of the century and
the flow of things, luck and winning grant with, his deeds are a sunlit epic; gradually He isolated
his purposes, he lost in an ever bolder and lonely height, the objective Finite world with
all terms and conditions, the nations with their national way of thinking to him only the indifferent
material, which he wants to impress the shape of his perfect will; there just responded this
real world, the move from any individual from a focus want to be, and the disaster that is the
sudden change and makes the measured a shocking disaster. Thus, even when Alexander the Great,
between Columbus a double Considers possible: epic heroes are both in that they are only organ
of the Zeitgeist; one opens the Orient, the other the far Occident, both are of the general objective
confined to the international expansion of global consciousness taken to happy targets, in the lives
of both mixes but soon the tragic accident, the one in the bloom of Youth, the other after a string
of injuries and mishaps expires.

The last consideration, we have to pay the epic concerns, after the epic Substance known, the
epic attitude, the way the poetic treatment in the epic. This will be the simple consequence of
that, and the fact we can Homer be the pattern. As the epic falls in that early time, where with
the sentient soul in the immediate unity of the World and the will to survive even a fight
with the natural instincts, has so well the whole epic depiction of that serene peace and harmony
everywhere that untroubled be worn. Further, since the epic poet of a bygone era just told
there that he maintains, is heard only by the quiet sense of the ear and not like the drama
in immediately present, it is moving, then the proportion of a milder
mood, the mood a freer and singer wins dimensional space development
of all sites and circumstances, to peaceful development and more even
recognition also of the smallest and most insignificant.

In the drama is the character of people as it illuminated from one side only, so far they namely
by a predominant passion, by a special delivery system of the whole in the tragic case of collision
involved. The epic, however, does not have a particular point of view, it sheds light on the
personality of all sides, in all respects and all the people is with lingering detail as a totality
of inclinations, Peculiarities and interests before our mind's eye. The drama rushes restlessly
through a Series of increasingly violent discord against its objectives, from increasing to increase
pushes it to the disaster, the viewer, moves between fear and hope, in itself divided and torn
from the harmonic balance self-esteem, can not find peace as in the finite starting point,
where the violent tension dissolves in perfect sympathy and the harmony of the finished building
our art reflects the inner reconciliation. Conversely, we remain of the epic narrator continues
to face in the freedom of the mind and the all-round Integrity of our forces. Instead of the
violent content in the drama the huddle, unfolds Rather, he's whole life, the whole width
of human activity and existence with all additional conditions, In addition to all moods in
uniformly bright lighting. His friendly view of things granted even the most insignificant
of remaining in the whole and he dwells much. With divine Objectivity and impartiality are Homer
every object, the largest as the smallest his name and his rights; yielding and gentle he lifts each
side adjoining Third born, they may be important or unimportant, and quite behind the described
by him World hiding anything and he can express each in his own most shades and after his
very own form and place in the rich and varied picture insert. In the vast Scope of his intuitive
mind, and in the even heat of his participation is not excluded disturbing, unnecessary or insignificant.
He tells us not only how his heroes hate, love and struggle, but also how they create the
soles and Under the dress coat throwing, is among us all the pieces of bronze armor on the
Greaves to crown Bush the helmet, just as all the cushions and soft wool carpets of the bed, he follows
the meal in its entirety, and wash their hands heroes, they all receive equal portions allocated
to meat, which heralds the mix wine with water from the mixing kettle and pour the drink to each guest in
the smaller cup, etc Contact at the crucial moment of the battle two fighters facing each other,
already is the lance lifted, the poet still has time and humorous enough for us peace of mind with
the recent Fates of making one or the other known where he previously lived, who his mother and
his father was, indeed like his father called and where and how old he was dead. Quite rest
of this epic are Homer's dialogue, exchange talk of heroes and gods penetrated each other. They may fight
in a violent passion with one another or they may give and receive commands or bragging compete
with each other in word or fight plead in agony to rescue or research, or tell, it is always
the slow, quiet flowing river that never stops, but never pushed away with tempestuous violence.
A good example is the epic sojourn place where the nurse at the foot washing Eurycleia suddenly
their masters will recognize as a beggar, Odysseus returned from the scar on his knee. It
is the moment of highest tension: but now the poet tells in detail how Odysseus in youth come
to this scar, during a visit to Autolycus on Parnassus, the Boar hunt, the boar who taught him
to the wound, is described with great detail; occurring while the speeches are given at length
with the words: "So this scar recognized the old nurse, "again draws. Again, as Patroclus was
killed and Achilles the weapons seized, he says full of rage and destruction of zeal on the battlefield:
there take it to the Lycaon, the son of Priam, a moment was enough to the unfortunate spoiling.
But the author pushes this quiet moment to still, he tells us first, like Achilles, once before
the Lykaon on a dark night in his father's vineyard attacked; The young man cut himself there
with a sharp knife by a young fig tree rods, which rods should serve for signs, but now there
fell upon him unexpectedly, the divine son of the Peleus. But he sent the prisoners on a ship
across the sea, and sold him into well-built Lemnos. Buyer, however, was Euneus, son of Jason.
From there, he bought a friend going on, giving a lot of gold, the Eetion Imbrie, and sent him
back to Troy in the divine Arisbe. From there, secretly fleeing, he returned to his father's
house. There he was eleven Days, in the handling of his loved ones rejoicing after he left
Lemnos, but on the twelfth He struck again on the Achilles. So now we are back at the moment as
before that Involvement. But still is not the fatal blow. Achilles is puzzled by the Lemnos sold
again seen on the battlefield right now and is followed by a loud soliloquy ten verses in which
Achilles proclaims: Truly I think I killed the Trojans return from the underworld back again,
so I have this sold yet in the Holy Lemnos, but the gray sea salt can not hold him back, and
many are still against their Will in the seas around, but now I want to see whether he, when he
learned of my spear sharpness, also return from there, or whether it will subdue the earth, which
was also the strong tamed. Now describes the poet as Lycaon die in the mind not liked, in
which Achilles position he faced, as Lycaon begging to be approached him, and now follows in
more than twenty verses this Bittrede where Lykaon retold train for train, as he was caught in
the orchard, was sold for a hundred oxen to Lemnos, eleven Days spent at home so I can see, he says,
that my mother took me only a short life born, has the Laothoe, daughter of the venerable old,
what about the military Leleges prevails in the high Pedasos the river Satnioeis. This Old
Priam's daughter had as many other: we were from the mother two children, you will probably kill
them both, the one you you already killed, the godlike Achilles responds Polydorus etc. Then
turn is detailed in almost as long speech in which he cites the death of Patroclus, and now the
killing, their circumstances are also specified. Such examples of truly epic sound could be
given from Homer innumerable. The poet follows but the series of time moments of poetic clarity,
only the law and if he sometimes Vast sums, he unfolds mostly what huddled in reality, for
example, where an exciting situation, a heavy feeling in our breasts often in a short Exclamation
or in a single word air makes it to full exposition of the underlying manifold Content. The epic poet is
quite similar to the visual artist: this also holds a river passing moment in time and puts it
firmly fixed and full marble outlines against our intuition, so that we unfolded all its contents
and have to change ourselves. Therefore, now the tendency of the epic poet of episodes. In the
drama tolerate the anxiety of the Expected, no jumping, there is always followed strict line
in quick succession to the ultimate objectives, But the epic is the true ground of the most
varied episodes. The poet and the listener follow in their inner peace every part of the opportunity
present itself, where a side path opens, he is entering dangerous. Homer does not partisan, because
he is the right of a knows every thing and it is ready to give him. His presentation will
praise nor To blame but only enough to do himself. All the songs of the Iliad, one may say,
are only Episodes, the beautiful fifth, which is about the bravery and the exploits of Diomedes;
in the singing but the digressions are numerous smaller again, so to speak for itself existing
epics in the small, part structure, leading a strange life, and only loosely and loosely connected
with the main course, like a polyp growing out from epic epic. Each Point in the large structure
is a busy place for themselves and each set has its own soul and is to its own sake, and hence
the free word and sentence linking at all, and to penetrated into the smallest form of the epic
principle. Also, the frequent running Parables that have replicated all the epic poet Homer,
are of the same spirit calm abiding by secondary ideas entered: by the poet in any situation
a similar incident from another area, he dwells on this second, under hand to its own independent
interest, and a whole will gain, which is also shows in the passage from the dependent subordinate clause
in a main clause, in the Homeric Parables so often happens. The same epic peace is reflected in
the frequent repetition: when to bring in Homer, a messenger has a message, it is certainly the job,
as long this may be, repeat with all secondary motives in the same words. Again, this is only a
sign of the divine patience which prevails throughout the epic world, but that always creative
and visual epic fantasy, but just because it such wealth in the bosom with, like the birthing
nature itself hesitates to generate half their restraint. The Epic says Herder once, must be
boring: this is true in the sense than any dramatic Urge all lyrical pathogens and eliminates
anxiety. But this lack of lively Interest is replaced by the sensuality, the plasticity, through
the bright light and the continuous tangible outline, which it delights the intuitive sense.

We removed our poem by Goethe and seemingly far, but in fact this the most important clues
to its evaluation and characterization won.

Goethe was all his natural disposition to not only a poet but in particular a epic poet, according
to the characteristics that we have stated above. His whole life is a great epic poem and passed
in the inner and äußrer harmony among the still forming the fates. A step by imperceptible
are solved from the other and each was in full sway of natural law peculiar to the flowers and
fruits. The current his life stopped and whirled never inhibited by enemy obstacles, in sweet
loops He skirted the opposite foot is elected rocky mountains. Goethe was always happy and every
mishap He interweaves equilibrium in the great harmony of his life and nature. Probably had
he made to internal struggles, battles full of deep division and eclipse of the soul; for he was a
poet, but always voted the rich healing power of his nature the broken Mind back to the cheerful
reconciliation with the world and with itself always in childlike relation Agreeing with the
order of nature and in their quiet lawful course he could therefore to the tragedy that the struggles
of the subject with the objective powers or the conflict of the latter among themselves is poetic,
not feel determined. I feel much, writes he Schiller, that the mere attempt to write a true
Traggödie destroy me inside would. In the epic world, however, not affected by the suffering
that the subjective freedom is, he found peace again, the nature and provided pure and simple
beauty. From Shakespeare, he moved away, the longer he lived, more and more, to Homer, he always
felt more drawn, he thought in Sicily long after the plan of a drama Nausicaa, he began In later
times a heroic poem, the Achilleis: in both he wanted to compete with Homer. The epic is part before
the tragedy, that is where this undisturbed in the chest yet burst forth, is partly in the level
above it, where, after overcoming all the pain and Contradictions of the finite world aware of
the full reconciliation and salvation has been restored to is.

Goethe was now in the region in real calmed himself humanity. The highest Education to him was
the purest humanity, beauty and morality, as well as happiness and
morality he was one.

The state where the obligation, with the tendency of the moral will with the natural Shoots
together does not know where we are not so full undivided possession of ourselves, was unbearable
for him. He followed the course of its beautiful nature, but not the mean and ugly, but the
noble and refined. This is all those mental level, above which we found than the epic and
the epic poet peculiar. Goethe's special Inheritance was a powerful imagination and energy of
the full dose of intuition. This he remained in an age of cold and dry mind an eternal youth. With
clear View he looked up and observed the things around her, watching her never clouded by hate
and his own involvement, let them work on you at ease and put it with perfect art purification
then in its innermost truth again dar. truth and nature, therefore, are the main features of
Goethe's poetry. The objective fidelity with which human life and nature itself reflected in his
poetry, the plastic sensibility, with all the representations of his Hand in the bright sunlight simulating
art confront us, can only be the plastic Compare and objectivity of Homer. Merck, the older friend
of Goethe divined this gift the poet's early and already expressed in a letter that was Goethe's
unshakeable direction, to give the reality, a poetic form, while the others only to realize the Imagination
investigated. Schiller also noted on Goethe, no modern poet thus find the full sensual truth of
things as him. Goethe was entirely in the living presence the surrounding objects, and found in
it the content of eternity:

Do you want to proceed to infinity, Just go in the finite in all directions!

The supersensible it was only insofar as it is in the sensible revealed he looked at the General
in particular to, so he was a realist and an idealist at the same time. After chasing him was
distant ideals contrary, sentimental longing when she crept over, he lay down in a lyric song,
the back healed and freed him, and turned it around to satisfy the present. Therefore, it was
now also, that Goethe and Schiller later, the man of freedom, the playwright, of Kant, that Goethe was
so attracted to the epic Spinoza powerful. Goethe loved and studied this eagerly thinkers, especially
his ethics, with whom he was in original affinity. The all restorative rest of Spinoza, Goethe
praises itself to him was only the counterpart its own meaning and representation.


Then on top of all came the appalling admission that an officer suffering from insanity had
taken out three prisoners and caused them to be shot without trial on his own responsibility,
none of these men having any complicity with the rebellion. This incident would have inflamed
public opinion in any community; in Ireland its effect was beyond words poisonous. It revived
the atmosphere of the Bachelor's Walk incident; and there was only too much justification for
holding that the military authorities were indisposed to take the proper disciplinary action.
Its effect detracted from the excellent opinion which the troops generally had earned by their
conduct: it instilled venom into the resentment of those few cases (and it was beyond hope
that they should not occur) in which soldiers had either lost their heads or yielded to the
temptation of revenge in its ugliest shapes. 

Schiller's idea of ​​Humboldt's work is best seen from his letter to the Humboldt 27. June 1798
(Correspondence between Schiller and Humboldt, p. 297), but to me incorrect Hehn to interpret in
his mood seems, Goethe's view is clear from his letter to Humboldt of 16 July 1798 (Goethe's
Correspondence with the brothers von Humboldt p. 55).

P. 4 Hillebrand, the German national literature since the beginning of the eighteenth century,
especially since Lessing, is up to the present in the 2nd Band p. 236 of our poem; see also p.
5 "Even Joseph Hillebrand, at the lowest of all literary historians Goethe recognized, has been
free of Gervinus keep them completely .... Where Hillebrand says
himself, because it is excellent "Thoughts on Goethe p. 171, n. 2

Gervinus
speaks of Hermann and Dorothea in the 5th Volume of his history of
German poetry P. 522, see also p. 5 40.

131. He wrote a history of German poetry, as he his book called, not in poetic, but moral and prosaic
purpose, where, of course all the proportions are reversed. He did not appreciate the poetic
product every time according to his own inner values, even as a member of a continued ongoing
development, but insofar as it could be a means repeal the aesthetic mood and place of the literary
a political era with civil liberties and national greatness, as he Gervinus, it constructs had
to achieve .... Gervinus was a much studied with his authority and doctrine, the epoch of great souls
is over and the dawning of heroism, together with the other Baden and Rhenish professors of the leaders
in the general shift. And you can see now, after half a century went on back to him, we must confess,
he was actually a limited cross-head, which itself often headstrong crazy the goal; no true scholar,
although he had had to read much as a literary historian, originally a merchant, and is lacking
in, you know, never gets back on. His discordant nature painted in the unbearably harsh style: one
sets his books with the feeling of the hand, as if you have to wade through a thorn bush and would
now torn Clothes and disheveled hair there, but that very fact his reputation grew, for the beautiful
form Germany has always been suspicious "Thoughts on Goethe p. 165 167. It is as if Hehn never
Gervinus read Shakespeare wonderful book, and his verdict is, except Note the style quite unreasonable
and without any real contact with Gervinus's innermost nature. Friendly and Hermann Grimm's opinion
is correct, who in his Goethe p. 90, a lance for the creator of our literary history, breaks,
see also Scherer, History of the German Literature S. 723rd

Hermann and Dorothea.

P. 5 They maintain that Schiller is in his letter to Henry Meyer, 21 July 1797 (Correspondence between
Schiller and Goethe, Volume 1, p. 296 Spemann).

P. 6 Rosenkranz, Goethe and his works, p. 346

Day and Annual Reviews of 1796: Goethe's Works, Volume 35, p. 65 Weimar edition, see also P.
57 "With emotion I remember, as we are in deep heart's movement at Goethe bulging Tears the song that
contains the conversation with the mother at Hermann's pear tree, right after read to the development.
Thus, melts at its own coal, he said, by the Dry eyes, "says Caroline of Wolzogen in their lives
Schiller Cotta p. 225, reprinted Goethe's conversations in Volume 1, p. 186

Jean Paul's characteristic is also mentioned p. 45.

P. 11 In the new literary Gazette from 1807 noted Jakob Grimm, "it is an absurd invent epic do,
because every poem must be self-sealing, written by no poet be ", the site is reprinted in
its small fonts Volume 4, p. 10, n. 4;, see also p. 14 As we have
now to think about this basic principle Grimm, shows Scherer in his
Jacob Grimm p. 145 and p. 133 in his Poetics

P. 12 Hegel, Aesthetics
Volume 3, p. 332, see also p. 13 45.

109. In Hegel's Occur "opened up an immense wealth from the intoxicated glances that regained
Home of the Spirit, and melted from the heat this spring neuaufgegangenen the rigid persistent separation
of the abstract mind and the dualistic morality 'thoughts Goethe on p. 15 Hehn's philosophical
views are continuously influenced by Hegel (see Dehio in Italy Hehn S. VI) and his general views
expressed in our works of poetry and its development are based all over the terrain of life of
Hegel's aesthetics, the most tangible and most enduring works of the philosopher, but nowhere urges
the terminal to the revered master excessively disruptive or out, the exact comparison is often
Similarities to the expression inside.
 Even
in print the speech seethes with growing passion; and its delivery, I am told, accentuated
its bitterness and its anti-English tone. Fortunately, some of which permit obtained Concepts
of the book in the gaps almost certainly in the spirit of Hehn's close.

Hehn was 37 years old when he completed the manuscript of Hermann and Dorothea. So essential even after
his political Judgement modified and enriched his knowledge, his aesthetic Judgement was at
that time already the same as in later years. Where, as in "thought Goethe speaks of "on Goethe's
epic, we find no conflict with its more than a generation earlier formulated versions. It offers the
friends Hehnscher thoughts work but a special attraction, to see how this works in the most
vigorous manhood a warmth of feeling prevails, the later often with a cool irony assessment
was pushed back by people and circumstances. Find the book Hehnsche compliance and recognition
we do it, it will be the precursor of others.

Theodor Schiemann.

                                                           

Content.

Page

Introduction 1-4

Hermann and Dorothea 5-26

Choice of fabric. Why not a political 26-51

Material source, formation and absorption 52-60

Place and time 60-65

Course
of the fable 65-85

Characters 86-100

Customs and sphere of life
100-114

Diction 114-129

Verse 129-139

Andre German epics (Luise
von Voss, Messiah of Klopstock), for comparison 139-146

Notes 147-164

Introduction
148-150

Hermann and Dorothea 150-156

Choice of fabric.

    

    Goethe again! may prompt some impatient and throws the book aside.

    But what we have otherwise still great, what we have until now not
yet else, in a dream, but true, as Goethe?

Like the French, the image of the revolution, their heroic age age, demonstrate in ever new
light, so we fill libraries of literature and especially over which the maximum figure, the only
real poet, we become part. Jch bring my contribution to the many others. The devout worshiper,
stepping out of the temple planted grateful his trees, so that over the years an ever more glorious
grove umrauscht the sanctuary.

The work of Goethe in the consciousness of the nation should be established
far from complete.

Anyone who has observed the prevailing education must confess that the great majority do not
guess how much it has to Goethe. His poems are famous and known by all, enjoyed and felt they
are just a few. Sense of poetry is not further disseminated through as a talent for mathematics, for
example. Most adhere to the false rhetoric gold jewelry, are attracted by the tinsel of childish
diction and if they are characters, only through abstract ideality touched and carried away. Even
among those who as Goethe Designers must have occurred, not all of the delight of poetic pleasure
leave and the quest, also participate in other, called to her office believed, but were rather
philosophical needs by school, religious, political, social positions, therefore, more in a
scholastic and practical interest led to it. They were looking at those Seals the opportunity they
crowded the content already bringing with at them, instead of act impartially in the beautiful humanity
and devotion to pure representation to and can bring the feeling of others in more detail. Indeed,
in numerous writings on Faust although every word in the hero's monologue in talks with Mephistopheles
and Wagner is pronounced, has become a sacred text on which the notes and digressions are
accumulated and which to all kinds of writings and sayings negotiations supplies, but the wonderful
scene between Faust and Gretchen, the flower of the plant, where the full poetic Creation of
power the most affecting individual perceptions of love and sorrow of human life before throws
us to form white pages, where the busy silent interpretation. If It is capable of Roetsch,
away from Gretchen's form, and through it to innocence, fall and Redemption of mankind, represented
by them to think, we must doubt his poetic sense as much as when Viehoff in his latest comment
Goethe's poems to the beauty in the same watershed and alliteration, iambic and trochaic Rhythm
is in the prevalence of this or that vowel and so on. We find that Charles Green full significance
of Goethe's Wilhelm Meister's years of travel in mind, the second part of Faust, etc., while,
for example, Hermann and Dorothea is barely touched by him. He, too, so is the social reality
closer to the poetic heart than art: it can pass no matter where the latter captures irresistible and
may linger lovingly where it goes out. If so the boom is not always the institution of pure joy
in the presence of poetry has become to be found among the large number of readers and opinions
and judgments overcome long abandoned positions still so very full inventory, it does not constantly,
in the put forward a narrower circle aesthetic insight gained anew. The moral-didactic Point to a poet
works with respect to the religious abstractions, the dualism between Sensuous and supersensible,
body and soul, earthly and heavenly, all the arts to destroyed to the root, the escape from the
full reality of nature and life, the inability to in the former, the inner forming spirit in
the figures of the latter, it produces driving and feeling animating morality - this is all
in the great mass of educated rocked ever so little, that there is much and repeated application
of truth to individual Points needed before she is allowed to boast of victory.

In Goethe's Hermann and Dorothea seals incidentally has relatively little speak of itself. " Is full of
clear insight into the nature of the Homeric epic of the same after the publication of Goethe's works
written review by August Wilhelm Schlegel. Full Spirit Comments containing an essay on Hermann
and Dorothea von Yxem that we, as is fitting, for our view have used. Only minimal instruction we
have in Wilhelm von Humboldt's writing found Hermann and Dorothea,
who already in 1799 the first and only part of the aesthetic experiments
appeared.

The presentation is kept within blood and unmyelinated abstraction, the amount of the living
individual poetic completely out of the face disappears and dissolves each time one of the ideas
from the forced elegance and icy elegance of expression, we find it more common than it seemed. If
therefore after reading Schiller sent him the record of the artistic and philosophical theory
know anything more wanted, then this point of his letter, usually as an admission by the reversal
in the himself from the creative thinker poet was just, taken, but much of that mood will certainly
come at the expense of just very infertile book, from his own initiative he expressed. Goethe,
too, soon turned from reading from the same angry, supposedly because blame it to the one occurring
in the poem vexed subject. For us, the whole wide Paper delivered lower yield than the few pages
that the excellent Hillebrand the poem is dedicated. Gervinus mentioned the same thing only
temporary, less, we believe, on grounds of his principle of historical genesis, where it is untrue
to itself often enough, as because of his representation at all underlying coldness towards the
poet of humanism.

Hermann and Dorothea.

Of all the poetry of Goethe is not, if we except the Werther, at the very beginning of been the nation
with such general applause taken when Hermann and Dorothea. The fist who is now perhaps among
the most popular of Goethe's works, even abroad, won his reputation only gradually, and probably
only in the later form in which he at the time of Romantic school
in 1808 appeared neuvermehrt in its second edition.

Hermann and Dorothea was the German agents after so appealing and
so human and yet so transparent and perfect art form that the poem
both the amount that judges only after the substances formed as the
artistic sense, which only the form, the artistic treatment shall,
to the admiration enraptured.

Schiller said after he read Hermann and Dorothea, this poem for the Summit Goethe's, of all
modern art. Wilhelm von Humboldt tied in a separate book, Soon after the Hermann and Dorothea,
under the title "aesthetic experiments", came out of this Poem a detailed discussion of general
aesthetic principles. Also, August Wilhelm Schlegel called in a separate assessment Hermann
and Dorothea, a perfect work of art in a big way, a book full of golden teachings of wisdom and
virtue. With equal admiration to express more recent critics. Hermann and Dorothea, says Hillebrand,
the very recently excellent history of German national literature from Lessing to the present has
written, Hermann and Dorothea is a work of German biblical religion and virtue. And Gervinus means
when an old Greek now were risen again, so would the whole of modern literature Hermann and Dorothea,
the only poem that we could offer him no embarrassment. Also Rosary holds such as Humboldt and
Gervinus Hermann and Dorothea in artistic terms for the most perfect of Goethe's works. Goethe
himself had a particular fondness for the same: he could, as he tells in the day and year books,
never read without tears of emotion.

A similar decision speaks our own feeling that we all have the poem that we here will employ,
read and enjoyed. But still this enjoyment increases communication and clear Consciousness
of his sources, and the effect that makes a beautiful poem to us seeking of itself after an appropriate
expression, and as a true work of art, like Hermann and Dorothea always half unconsciously created
by the artistic genius is, as an infinity of intentions, a space which it is indeed difficult,
so soulful and very individual Structures to characterize accurately, as it wind up the threads
of its texture and Impression that it's critical to break into the acting individual motives,
but nevertheless It currently offers its wealth of interpretation
and analysis of the various sides represents and provides the aesthetics
fertile opportunity to measure their general principles to it.

Hermann and Dorothea is an epic, or, as Jean Paul describes it in more detail, an epic Idyll. We
will, therefore, to the poem its place, as if to show his substantial home, the following must
remember in detail the fact that the nature and the laws of the epic Seal are at all, and we will
then return to Goethe and find him a only favor the very nature was born on the epic poet,
and that the essence of his poetry coincides with the essence of epic poetry in the happiest.
We will watch out whether the time and nation, in what was the poet, the epic was favorable
or not, which its relationship to the major political events of the past and to the surrounding
national world was whether it was easy to find here an epic material
and whether the poet it made a happy choice.

We will then continue the story itself, which the Poets tell us presents to the people and characters
he is in action, and the whole manner of presentation and treatment take more closely. The diction, the
linguistic Expression that is part of the verse structure characteristic of the poem, and finally
settling with the two predecessors of our epic poem in German literature, I mean Klopstock's
Messiah and Voss Luise will serve the peculiarity and value of our Poem to put into the light.
So this is the thread that is continuously on which our analysis.

The internal laws of epic poetry, we will see nowhere safer and purer can regain the form than
with the father of epic poetry, the old Homer. The happy people of the Greeks was so artistic
and poetic organized that with them the different genres of poetic idea in contemporary natural
gradation from one another and develop themselves, created their essential form, so that the
inner moments of the concept nowhere so pure with reality, the poetics of the history of poetry coincide.
Goethe himself had composed by Hermann and Dorothea, the Homer as a role model eyes and so he
does then with respect to its Hermann:

For Home Ride to be, just as the last, is beautiful.

We shall, therefore, by designing the main features of epic poetry, this is always in view
done to Homer.

Epos, word, Sage is the poetry of the people in childhood, in the dawn of history. The epic poetry
flourishes in that dawn, when a people even from the savagery and stupidity the first natural
existence to the spirit awakened, but where the intellectual and moral powers not as something
conscious, and clearly recognized as a separate firm power to the
people face, but this is yet another in a very naive way with the
moral imperative.

    It is during this period but already a political life, but not in
the form of certain laws and solid rights, curb the freedom of the
individual.

Rather, each with the political Custom in his own breast, and by following her, he does not know
that it could be different.

Law and emotion are not yet divorced and it's just the feeling that the political State has created.
Sun Agamemnon is indeed king, but this rule is based on any written laws. If he receives the best share
of the spoils, then understand this stops at each of its own at which point power and the aristocracy,
the elders Emperors and starts, and the latter is again limited by the People's Assembly, this is
not determined by fixed statute, but by the general feeling of the individual self-given. A
given by reflection, by written advice to a position placed are not promulgated constitution and
the political order has no other ground than the unbiased attitude of all. Similarly, the right
and the administration of justice is not one for the existing world and the provisions thereof
are staggering: it has no other binding Form, as to him by the immediate life of the people, by the
right feeling and the sense of fairness is given. If one such as a murder committed, what with
the fresh life of the Homeric People is not uncommon, he seeks to reconcile the family of those
killed by a fine or he leaves fleeing the home: one or the other makes him the custom duty. Argue
two by a weight of gold, the people formed a circle in the open, the old men as judges Sitting
on raised stone steps, the scepter as a sign of judicial prestige and experienced Wisdom in
his hand back and forth arguing, the people fall screaming from both sides one which heralds enjoin
silence: at last the old men give to their own senses and direct Sense of truth the decision.
So is the military system of the Homeric period without external peremptory norm and form
from the bottom of the living participants in all military Meaning. No discipline required, as
in later times the reluctant arbitrariness of individuals to curb, if the rows close together determine
if a fighter helps the other, if for the body of the dead and rescuing the survivors gather protectively,
so This does not happen by command but by an inner compulsion that every self- urges. Sun is in
this epic age the individual is very naive and unconscious after the train of his humanity, it is
the national spirit in everything it does and feels determined and in the general powers that
the life and customs form, fully incorporated. There are, in a word, objective, substantial people.
Just as now in a later period the history of the separation of the subject of substance going
on, we come out of the specifically epic world out. The mind and the spirit of the individual
are no longer in accordance with the law: what used to be in his actions an inner necessity, the
stands across from him now as a moral imperative: it is solid rights and laws that oppose the individual's
sense of a barrier, the state appears as a particular Constitution with special statutes created
by legislators, the latter of course also understood only the case of a national sensation
in phrases and formulas, yet even this form of written law, the first stage of reflection, the
overall life of the poetic epic-heroic Time becomes a prosaic order of things.
 Now in these summer months he pushed hard to get out to France, though he was not
physically fit for the line. He got to France, and, as was easy to foresee, broke down and
was sent to work at the base on records: but before he left his regiment he knew that it was
under orders for a general action, and he insisted that he should have leave to rejoin for
that day. He came back accordingly, found himself called on to take command of a company, and
led it with great gallantry, and on the second day of action was shot dead. It was the fate
that he expected; he, like so many, had a forerunning assurance of his end. So was lost to
Ireland the most variously-gifted intelligence that I have ever known.

The Sixteenth Division were still on the sector about Loos, and their casualties were heavy
and continuous in the perpetual trench warfare. With the last days of August they were withdrawn--for
a rest, as they believed at first; but their march was southwards to the Somme.

The purpose was to use them for an attack on Ginchy; but a shift of arrangements brought the
47th Brigade into line against Guillemont and its quarries, which had on six occasions been
unsuccessfully attacked. The Irish carried them. Three days later the whole division was launched
against Ginchy. They equalled the Ulstermen's valour, and were luckier in the result. For these
achievements praise was not stinted. On the ruins of Nero's Palace we
went through fresh artichokes aufgehaeufelte countries and could not contain us vollzustecken the pockets
of granite, porphyry and Marmortaefelchen lying around here in their thousands and the glory of the old
walls still so over dressed as inexhaustible Witnesses . Shall

To 18 November.

Now I must also speak of a beautiful image problem, focusing on those
excellent things can still be seen always good.

It is now several years stayed here a Frenchman, as a lover of art and collectors known. He
comes to the possession of an antique painting on chalk, no one knows whence; Will he the image
restored by Mengs, and has it as a valued work in its collection. Winckelmann speaks somewhere
of them with enthusiasm. It introduces the Ganymede, the Jupiter a cup of wine ranges and
on the other hand receives a kiss. The Frenchman dies and leaves behind the picture of his landlady
as antique. Meng dies and says on his deathbed, it was not antique, he painted it. And now,
all arguing against each other. One claimed that it is by Mengs as a joke only so easily executed,
makes the other part says, Mengs had never such a thing can make, so it was almost too beautiful
for Raphael. I have seen it yesterday and must To say that I know of nothing more beautiful than
the figure of Ganymede, head and back, the other is much restored.

However, the picture has been discredited, and the poor woman, no
one wants redemption from the Treasury.

20, November 1786th

As experience teaches us sufficiently that one of poems and drawings for all copper wished,
so the painter himself his detailed images of any point of a poet
devoted so Tischbein thought hoechst beifallswuerdig to work together
poets and artists should take to make up right from the origin of
a unit.

The difficulty would at of course much reduced if it were little poems, which are easily overlooked
and Conveying left.

Leg also has this purpose very pleasant idyllic thoughts, and it is really strange that the items he
wished edited this way are of the sort that neither sealing even the visual arts, for each were
sure to represent adequately. He has I told them on our walks, to
make me feel like I engage myself to may.

The frontispiece to our common work is already designed, I was afraid
not to enter into something new, I could probably misled me.

Rome, 22 November 1786, at Caecilienfeste.

The memory of this happy day I have to get through a few lines and bright, what I enjoyed that
tell at least historically. It was the nicest, calmest weather, a completely clear skies and warm
sun. I went with a table leg in St Peter's Square, where we before walking up and down and
when it became too hot to us, in the shadow of the great obelisk, the is just wide enough for
two thrown, walked and ate grapes, which we in the Close had bought. Then we went to the Sistine
Chapel, we also bright and cheerful, the paintings were better lit. The "Last Judgement" and
the many paintings the ceiling, by Michelangelo, shared our admiration. I could see and admire
only. Internal security and masculinity of the master, its grandeur is all about expression.
After we saw everything again and again, we left and went to this shrine St. Peter's, the serene
of heaven received the most beautiful light, and in all parts appeared
bright and clear.

We are amused than sending people to enjoy the size and the Splendor,
without carrying too disgusting and taste to agree to let us be led
astray this time, and oppressed any more severe sentence.

We enjoyed the gratifying.

St. Peter's Square in Rome. Etching by Piranesi

At last, we climbed the roof of the church, where the image of a well-built city in the small
place. Houses and magazines, well, (the appearance to) churches and a large temple, all in
the air, and beautiful walks in between. We boarded and inspected the dome the light-hearted
area of ​​the Apennines, the mountain Soracte, to Tivoli, the volcanic hills, Frascati, Castel
Gandolfo and the Plaine and on the sea. Close by us, the whole city Rome in its breadth and
width, with their Bergpalaesten, domes, etc. It did no Air, and in the copper button, it was
hot as in a hothouse. After we all had taken to heart, we came down and allowed the door to the
cornices of the dome, Unlocks the drum and the ship, you can go around to these same parts
and The church viewed from above.

As we stood on the cornice of the drum, the pope was below in the deep past to keep his afternoon
devotions. We lacked for nothing St. Peter's. We climbed back down completely, took in a nearby
inn cheerful, frugal meal and continued on our way to the Caecilienkirche.

Many words I would need to have the embellishment of the whole church with people angefuellten
to describe. They just saw no stone architecture more. The columns were in red Velvet exaggerated
and bound with gold lace, the capitals with embroidered velvet in about Kapitaelform, hung so all
cornices and pillars and covered. All the walls Zwischenraeume with vividly painted original
pieces held that the whole church seemed paved with mosaic, and over two hundred wax candles burned
at and near the high altar, so that the whole of one Wall filled
with lights and the ship of the church was fully enlightened.

The lateral movements and Seitenaltaere well decorated and illuminated. Against the high altar, over,
under the organ, two skeletons, covered with velvet, on the one the singer, on the other instruments
stood that made lasting music. The church was crowded.

A nice kind of musical performance I heard here. How to violin - or other concerts has, they lead
to gigs with voices that one voice, the soprano, for example, dominant
and solo singing, think of the choir from time to time, and accompanied
him, it is understood always with the full orchestra.

It feels good effect. - I must terminate, as we end the day .

Had In the evening we went by to the opera house, where just the "Litiganti" were listed, and
goodness had enjoyed so much that we voruebergingen.

23 November.

So could I have not yet popular with my incognito not like the ostrich-being, which holds for
hiding if he hides his head, so I give in some way, my old thesis continually claiming. The
princes of Liechtenstein, the brother of me so worth Countess Harrach, I was pleased to welcomed
and fed him several times, and could soon noted that this would further
lead me my indulgence, and so it happened.

I had been prelude to the Abbate Monti, his "Aristodem", a tragedy that should be given soon.
The author, it was said that they would like to present and my opinion to hear about it. I let the
matter drop without rejecting them, finally I was once the poet and one of his friends at the
Prince, and read the piece was.

The hero is known as a king of Sparta, who for all sorts of scruples of conscience disembodied
self, and it gave me a similar manner to understand the author of "Werther" would probably not
find amiss, if, in some places the pieces of his excellent Find used
book.

And so I was even in the walls of Sparta, the angry Manen the unfortunate young man does not
escape.

The piece has a very simple, quiet course, the sentiments as the language, the Object according
to, vigorously and yet weichmuetig. The work reflects a very nice Talents.

I did not fail, in my way, though not to the Italian, all the best and Praiseworthy lifted out
of exhibit, so it was indeed fairly satisfactory, but Southern impatience with anything more
demanding. Especially looking I should say something about the Effect of the play was to hope
for the audience. I apologized to my ignorance of the country, and of representation of taste,
but was honest enough, add, that I do not see quite how spoiled Roemer, a complete comedy of and
a complete three-act opera by two acts as an interlude or a grand
opera with quite strange to see ballet as Intermezz usual, were on
the noble, peaceful passage of a delight as the tragedy could continue
uninterrupted.

Then I thought well the subject of suicide to lie entirely outside the circle of Italian terms.
That slay one another, of which I would have almost day by day to hear that one but itself
Dear life rob, or just for thought possible, it is I have met yet.

Then I let me teach like circumstances, which objected to my disbelief want to be, and I did very
much in the plausibeln arguments, also assured that I wish nothing more than to see the play
list and the same with a chorus of The most sincere friends to pay tribute to the loudest
applause.

This statement was kindly recorded, and I had every reason, this time with my flexibility to
be satisfied - as Liechtenstein prince for the kindness itself, and has made me the opportunity
to to see him do some art treasures, for which special permission
from the owner and therefore a higher action is necessary.

In contrast, however, handed back my good humor not as the daughter of the pretenders, the foreign
Marmot also desired to see. I refused and I am decidedly again submerged.

And

yet that's not quite right way, and I feel this very vividly, what
I was noted early in life that the man who is good, is going to just
doing business active field and should act towards others as the self-serving,
the boy, the bad guy.

Show can's good, but it is difficult to act in this sense.

24, November.

Of the nation I know of nothing further to say than that they are natural persons, who Grandeur and
dignity of religion and the arts are not a hair different than they in caves and forests would be.
What strikes all strangers, and what is today the whole Town talk, but makes only talk, the
killers are commonly found. Fours are already in our district in these three weeks have been murdered.
Today was a good artist Schwendimann, a Swiss, medal, the last student
of Hedlinger attacked, completely as Winckelmann.

The murderer, with whom he is herumbalgte gave him about twenty stitches, and since the guard was
added to stab the villain himself, the other is not fashion here. The murderer reached a church,
and so it is good.

And so was I supposed to bring a downside in my paintings, crime and calamity Earthquake and flood
report some, but sets the current outbreak of fire Vesuvius, most residents here on the move,
and you have to do violence in order not to to be carried away. This phenomenon has really
rattlesnake-like and draws people to resist.

It is the moment when all the art treasures Rome would destroy, break
through all the strangers the course of their observations and rushing
to Naples.

But I will persevere in hope that the mountain still something for me will cancel.

1st December.

Moritz is, to us by "Anton Reiser" and the "Walks to England" strange become. It is a pure, good man,
where we have a lot of joy.

1st December.

Here in Rome, where we see so many strangers, not all of the higher art for this capital visit
the world, but also want to be well maintained in other ways, one is on all sorts of prepared.
There are so certain Halbkuenste which hand skill and pleasure craft ask what you have brought
it here very much and happy with the strangers to the attention moves.

Among these is the wax painting that everyone who is given some measure of water colors has, through
its preliminary work and preparations, then modified in the heating
process, and what else related to this subject, mechanical employment
and a low artistic value, often by can increase novelty of the company.

There are clever artist, herein lessons and type in the name of the manual often do the best for
the thing that most recently, when it appears to wax and gloss image heightened in gold frame,
the beautiful schoolgirl quite surprised by her talent stands unconscious.

Another

type employment is to print a hollow carved stones into a fine clay,
which is also well done with medals, where both sides are simultaneously
reproduced.

More skill, care and diligence requires at last the making of the glass pastes itself to all
these things Councilor Reiffenstein in his home, or at least in its immediate surroundings the
necessary equipment and stations.

2nd December.

Incidentally, I was here Archenholzens "Italy" found.

How did a scribbling on site, shrinks, just as if you put the booklet on the coals, it gradually
brown and black dignity, the leaves curled up and went up in smoke. Of course, has he saw things,
but to make a valid grosstuige, contemptuous manner, has he was much too little knowledge and
stumbles praise and censure.

Rome, 2 Dezember 1786th

The nice, warm, calm weather, which is interrupted
only occasionally by days of rain, to me at the end of November across
something new. We use the good time in the open air, evil in the room,
everywhere there is something to look forward, learning and doing

On
28 November we went back to the Sistine Chapel, and ordered the gallery
where you can see the ceiling closer, it forces itself but because
it is very narrow, with some Difficulty and with apparent danger to
the iron Staebenweg, so the Dizzy be left behind everything but the
sight of the greatest masterpiece replaced. And I am taken in the
moment as for Michelangelo, that I do not even the natural taste to
it, because I do not but with such big eyes look like he can.

Later, in the days from 1906 onwards, with all his experience, it cannot be said that he ever
affected opinion in the House. What he said was the common stuff of argument: it was all what
someone else might have said--until the war came. Then, he was a changed creature. The best Tramontane, a clear sunny sky, under which you need
in the wide world. Now I say it all the friends in Weimar and Gotha a true good-bye! Your love
accompany me, because I want to need them most accessible. Last night I dreamed myself in my
shops. Is it seems as if I Pheasant my ship could unload nowhere but with you. May it be just
even more handsome be loaded!

Sicily

Maritime, Thursday, 29 March.

Not like the last departure of the packet boat this time was blowing supplying with fresh northeast,
but unfortunately the other side of a mild southwest, the allerhinderlichste, and so learned
us because, as the sailors of attachments of the weather and wind depends. Impatient spent We soon
the morning on the shore, now in the cafe, we finally boarded the ship for lunch and enjoyed the
beautiful weather of the most glorious sight. Not far from the pier was the corvette anchor.
On a clear day sun, a hazy atmosphere rich, so the shaded Felsenwaende Sorrento by the most beautiful
blue. The lit, lively Naples shone with all colors. It was not until sunset, moving the ship,
but only slowly, from the point of opposing wind pushed us to the Posilipo and headed over. All
night the ship went quiet continued. It was built in America, egelnd quickly, like within with
little room and each Deposits set up.

The Company decent perk: by Operisten and dancers; Palermo prescribed.

Friday

30 March

At dawn we found ourselves between Ischia and Capri, the latter by approximately one mile.
The sun rose gloriously from behind the mountains of Capri and Cape Minerva. Kniep recorded
diligently the outlines of the coasts and islands and their different views, and the slow Ride
in good stead of his efforts. We sat down with a weak and half-winds our way continued. Vesuvius
has lost about four clock out of our eyes as yet Ischia and Capo Minerva were seen. These were
lost in the evening. The sun was setting into the sea, accompanied of clouds and a long, mile-wide
strips, all purpurglaenzende lights. This phenomenon also recorded
Kniep.

Now there was no country to see more of the horizon around a water
circuit, the night bright and beautiful moon.

Ship off Capri. Drawing by Kniep

I had this magnificent views can enjoy stunning city views, sea-sickness I was overcome soon.
I went to my room, called up the horizontal position, contained me out of white bread and red wine
for all foods and drinks, and was drawn quite comfortable. Completed by the outside world, I
let the internal exercise, and as a slow ride foresee, I gave me right at the major entertainment on
a strong workload. The first two acts of "Tasso", written in poetic prose, I had all the papers
of taken alone over seas.

These two acts, in respect to approximately the transition plan and
currently is, however, wrote ten years ago, had some effeminate, Misty,
which is soon lost when I manage to recent views the form and rhythm
let happen.

Saturday, 31 March.

The sun was clear up from the sea. At seven, we reached a French clock Ship, which departed two
days before us, so we sailed much better, and yet we saw not the
end of the ride.

Some comfort to us was the island of Ustica, but Sorry to be on the left, because we just, like
Capri, were right. At midday We had the wind quite contrary, and we did not come from the spot. The sea
began to higher to go, and in the ship almost everything was ill.

I stayed in my usual position, the whole piece was over and over, thought through and through.
The hours passed by, without my having noticed their division, if not mischievous Kniep, whose
appetite for the waves had no effect, from time to time by me Wine and bread, brought the excellent
luncheon, the serenity and grace of the young capable Captain, whose
regret that I am not my portion mitgeniesse, while gloating would
have praised.

Similarly, it was the transition from joke and pleasure to discomfort and disease and as we saw
this with individual members of society, rich material to willful Description.

Four in the afternoon clock gave the captain the ship in another direction. The mainsail was again
raised and addressed our drive straight to the island of Ustica, behind which we saw great
joy to the mountains of Sicily.

The wind improved, we went faster go to Sicily, also commented on
some islands came to the face.

The sunset was cloudy, the sky light hidden behind fog. The whole evening quite favorable
wind. Against Midnight, the sea began to become very restless.

Sunday 1 April.

At three clock in the morning a violent storm. In sleep and dream I was half my dramatic Plane
continued, however, had great movement on the deck. The sails had to be taken, the ship floated
on the high tides. Towards daybreak, the storm died down, the Atmosphere cleared up. Now the
island of Ustica was completely left. A large tortoise we were shown
floating in the distance, through our Fernroehre as a living point
well be identified.

Around noon, we were able to coast of Sicily, with its promontories and bays clearly distinguished,
but we were gone to the wind, we tacked and down. By afternoon we were closer to the shore. The
western coast of Lilybaeischen Capo Gallo promontory until we saw quite clearly, the sun in
clear weather and bright translucent.

A group of dolphins accompanied the ship on both sides of the front part and shot ahead forever.
It was fun to watch, as soon clear of the translucent Waves covered hinschwammen, sometimes
with their Rueckenstacheln and fins, green - and gold-playing sides, leaping above the water
moving.

Since we were well below the wind, went straight to the captain of a bay, just behind Capo Gallo.
Kniep missed the wonderful opportunity, the most diverse views quite in detail to draw. At
sunset the captain turned the ship again the high sea, and went northeasterly to reach the height
of Palermo. I dared me sometimes on deck, but I let my poetic intent thoughtful, I and the whole
piece was pretty much become master.

In trueblichem sky bright moonlight, the reflection on the sea beautiful
infinity.

The painter, for effect's sake, let us often believe, a reflection of the sky lights in the water
was initially the viewer the greatest width, where it has the largest energy. But here we saw
on the horizon, the reflection most broadly, the initially like a pyramid pointed to the ship
in waves flashing ended. The captain altered the very night the maneuver several times.

Monday 2 April, early 8 clock,

we found ourselves opposite Palermo. This morning seemed most gratifying for me. The Plan my
play was so advanced these days in the whale belly pretty. I found myself well and was able
to look at the top of the coasts of Sicily with attention. Kniep recorded continuously busy, and by
his skilful accuracy, several strips of paper to a very estimable and delayed memory of the
landing.

Palermo, Monday, 2 April 1787

At last we came in suffering and effort afternoon at three clock in the harbor, where we a very
pleasing sight opposed. Fully prepared, as I was, I felt the greatest pleasure. The city turned
to the north, lying at the foot of high mountains, about her, the
Days of Contemporary, the sun herueberscheinend.

The clear downside of all building looked at us, illuminated by the glow. Monte Pellegrino right,
its graceful shapes in the most perfect light, left the far shore with outstretched bays, headlands
and promontories. What also brought forth a most charming effect, was the graceful young green
trees, their peak, back lit, as large masses from vegetable Johanniswuermer the dark buildings
swayed to and fro. A clear scent Blaut all shadows.

Instead impatient to rush to the shore, we stayed on deck until we were expelling; where If we
had a same position, hoping such a happy moment, so soon ! Can

Due to the wonderful, two enormous pillars existing gates that are not closed at the top may
be in order for the car of the towering St. Rosalia at the prestigious festivals through travel
could you led us into town and immediately left into a large inn. The landlord, to see an
old man comfortable, have always been strangers of all nations used to lead us in a large room,
from whose balcony we the sea and the harbor, the mountains and the
Rosalie Bank looked over, saw our boat and could assess our first
point.

On the situation of our room the greatest content, we hardly noticed that basically the same a raised
alcove is hidden behind curtains, where the prolix bed spread, that, resplendent with a silk
canopy, with the other grand old movable completely identical.

Such a state room we sat as it were at a loss we asked, to complete herkoemmlicherweise conditions.
The old man said, however, it no need to condition, he wished it
to us at his pleasure.

We should also use the antechamber, which, cool and breezy, funny,
several balconies, the same joined in our room.

We are amused at the infinite variety of views and studied them in detail drawings and to develop
picturesque, for here there was a limitless harvest for the artist look over.

The bright moonlight of the evening we drew on the roads, looking
for the return us a long time on the balcony.

The lighting was strange, calm and grace great.

Palermo, Tuesday, 3 April 1787

Our first was to consider the city closer, about to look very easy and difficult know, is easy,
because a mile-long road from the lower to the upper gate, from the sea to against the mountain
'and it cuts through this again about the middle of another cut is what is on these lines is
to find convenient, this inner city however, confuses the stranger,
and he unravels itself only with the help of a leader in this Mazes.

In the evening we gave our attention to the number of known coach
ride more gentlemanly Persons who went out of town on the harbor in
order to breathe fresh air, to entertain themselves and kourtoisieren
if necessary.

Two hours before the night was the full moon occurred and glorified the evening unspeakable.
The location of Palermo on the north, makes that very strange town and the banks against the
large sky light conditions, the reflection is never seen in the waves. Therefore We also now on
the gayest day, the dark blue sea, serious and intrusive thought, rather than having it near
Naples from noon to always cheerful, funny and also gleams.

Kniep had already let me make some way and some consideration alone, a to take accurate contour
of Monte Pellegrino, the most beautiful of all the foothills of the world.

Palermo, 3 April 1787.

Here are some summary, additions and confidential:

We went Thursday, 29 March, with sunset in Naples and landed only after four days by three clock
in the port of Palermo. A little diary, which I enclose told, at all our fates. I have never
begun a journey as quiet as this, have never had a quieter time than on their resistance to wind
much elongated carrier, even on the bed in the narrow little room, where I had to keep the
first day, because I strongly attacked the sea-sickness. Now I think calmly over to you, because
if any something for me was crucial, it is this journey.

If you have not seen surrounded by the sea all around, one has no conception of the world and
of its relationship to the world. As a landscape artist I have this great, simple line new ideas
given.

We have, as the diary identifies, on this short trip and as many distractions had the fate of
sailors in the small. Besides, the safety and convenience Boots of the package not enough praise.
The captain is a very brave man and very similar The company had an entire theater, gutgesittet,
tolerable and pleasant.

My artist, I have with me is a cheerful, faithful, good man, with
the greatest accuracy records, and he has outlined all the islands
and coastlines, as they appeared, and it is great you Give pleasure,
if I bring everything.

Besides, he had me ride, the long hours of to shorten the mechanical water color painting (watercolor),
which in Italy is now carried very high, has written. Understood the use of certain colors to
certain Toene produce, where you are, without knowing the secret, would mix to death. I'd probably
find some of it in Rome, but never in the context. The artists ausstudiert have it in a country
like Italy, as this is. With no words, the hazy clarity of expression, which hovered around
the coast when we were at the most beautiful afternoon transportation from Palermo. The purity
of the contours, the softness of the whole, include separation the sounds, the harmony of sky,
sea and earth. Anyone who has seen it has to be whole life. Now I understand the first Claude
Lorrain and have hope, even in one day North from my soul silhouettes
out of this happy home - 3zubringen.

Would be everything just washed away from pettiness as pure as the
smallness of the Strohdaecher from my Sign concepts.

We will see what can do this queen of the islands.

Port. Painting by Claude Lorrain

As they received us, I have no words to express: with fresh green border Maulbeerbaeumen, immergruenendem
oleanders, lemon hedges etc. In a public garden stand wide beds of
ranunculus and anemones.

The air is mild, warm and fragrant, the wind was mild. The moon went to rest completely up
behind a promontory, appeared in the sea, and to experience it, after they floated for four days
and nights on the waves! Forgive blunt, when I with a Pen ink from a shell from which my companion
the outlines follow suit, this hinkritzle. Everything comes like a whisper to you over while I all
that love me, any other This monument of my happy hours already.

What it is, I do not say, when will can get it, I can not say.

Palermo, Tuesday, 3 April 1787.

This sheet should now, my beloved, the most beautiful you pleasure
in so far as it possible would be, in some way to make and it should
be the portrayal of the incomparable, a large mass of water deliver
comprehensive bay.

From the East up, find an area-wide promontory in the See engages
in many rugged, well-educated, wooded cliffs out to the fishing flats
up of the suburbs, then to the city itself since all the houses whose
exterior to the port Looking like our home too, up to the gate through
which we came.

Then we continued westward to the usual landing place, where small vessels , Invest up to the actual
port on the Molo, the station size vessels. Since rises now, to protect all vehicles in the west of
Monte Pellegrino in his beautiful Forms, after a lovely, fertile valley that stretches to the
sea beyond, left between himself and the actual dry land.

The bay
of Palermo. Drawing by Goethe

Kniep drew, I schematic, both with
great pleasure, and now that we joyously Coming home, we both feel
neither strength nor courage to repeat, and execute. Our Designs must
be remain so for future times, and gives you just this Journal a testimony
of our Unvermoegens to grasp these objects well enough, or rather
our Arrogance, conquer it in such a short time and want to dominate.

Palermo,
Wednesday, 4 April 1787.

Afternoon we visited the fruit-rich and
pleasant valley, the southern mountains passes down to Palermo, by
meanders of the river Oreto. Also here is a picturesque Eye and required
a skilled hand, if an image is to be found, and yet caught Kniep a
position, where the water braced by a military halbzerstoerten flowing
down, shaded by a merry group of trees behind the open view of the
valley hinaufwaerts and some agricultural buildings. The organization of the United Irish League had lost
touch with the young; the main support we had lay in the Ancient Order of Hibernians, which
many Nationalists disliked on principle because it was limited to Catholics. What had riot
yet disappeared up till July 1916, though it was threatened, was belief in the principle of
constitutional action as against revolutionary methods.

Willie Redmond, who never lacked instinct, and whose separation from party politics by conditions
of service gave him a vantage-ground of detachment, reached a shrewd view of the position before
the Longford vacancy occurred. He pressed upon his brother that we should all retire, saying
plainly that we had been too long in possession, and should hand over the task of representing
Ireland at Westminster to younger men. His association with the Volunteer Committee, brief
though it was, had made him more aware than most of our colleagues how wide was the estrangement
between us and the new Ireland; but it also taught him to believe that many of the men whom
he had met there would be willing to take up the task on constitutional lines. The summer evening, the
with cool shade, the gluten absorbs, the large rising, the sky wonderfully bright moon, The storm,
which umtürmt the setting sun, then in heavy thunder over the heads to roll of people who are changing
from red-hot sun looks, white moon light and dark Cloud shadows foreboding mixed lighting, the path
through the well-known to us lovely Locality, the tottering grain that reached the figures of wanderers
in height almost the venerable pear tree under which Hermann today cried the girl, at whose
hand he now after a few fateful hours then converts down the stairs to the leafy vineyard
- To the heart's secret, which both carry with them the sweet trepidation, based on the Youth
busy, the timidity, which in the most heart and the best hours it still closes the mouth, often
as lovely ambiguous words of the conversation, the we often take a turn, where the flower of love
in the bud open confession seems to want to blow up, Dorothea's slipping on the plates of the
vineyard, the embrace, Hermann in the fields and the heat of her heart, feel the balm of breath,
noble self-control that he shows in this moment, Dorothea's joke, which it at all internal movement
are still freedom of the mind and the custom has enough - all would this song to the crown
of the whole poem do if it was not inappropriate, in a poem as the most beautiful places of our
talk, in a poem where a soft light over all parts of its harmonious serenity spread, each individual
point Purpose of the whole and the progress of storms as powerful as the story still, the
proportion the mind is as intimate as a freelance. Once again, the random, the lover yes so
often favors or teased because they is all important and all of a sensation Handle granted,
his lovely game. Dorothy, sitting under the pear tree, sees the light Moon light the houses
and farms lie the city, especially a window in the light reflection shine: this has happened
to Hermann's window and he says it well: it is mine, saith He is, perhaps now that your there
and then, as if he had been betrayed too clearly adds He added: we are changing in the house,
which contain a double meaning of words again. Also, the Dorothea's misstep, which creates the
youth even before the engagement, the happiness of the beloved press to his heart, a game of fate,
the Cupid is even more useful with List seems to have joined.

From the sphere of feeling and love of the game sets us apart, the last song, which after Urania,
muse named the star, is, in the heights of the family. So fine again the Reflection of real life,
so rich in features, the scene is the nature of direct by listening,
so much everything is brought in by nearby confidential, it shall
still here in the final song in and with the feeling for the crowning
of our cherished relationship Persons of high sense of the poem, the
idea of ​​content to light: life and death, the cycle of age, seeds
and fruit of human life, fate and morality, the family in their fixed
basis, with her dark treasure just natural feelings and history; the
homes of the natural character drives crashing peoples against peoples,
and they one by one than the other tools are used in the continuous
development executive idea.

Golden words of deep truth has placed the priest, the poet in his mouth, when it exceeds death
and the transience of life twice to the philosopher and the religious pronounce:

Touching picture of death is Not as a terror to the wise and not as the end of the Pious. Those
pushing it back to life and teaches him to act; This strengthens it to future salvation in the hope
of tribulation; Two is the life of death. The father unjustly Has the sensitive boy's death
pointed in death.
 There are the roots his poetry.
Those who enter from the north of the Main in Germany, which is at the full Life and the naive
joy of the people held that he was in Goethe's home and youth air breathing: his songs here were
conceived and born, where the poet's soul from umklang Early on in the concrete and graceful
vernacular that Hans-Sachs tables tone that in its Works so very homely talks to us and which
we smile with such deep emotion; here he was in full participation in life and in the fullness
of view which it afforded, a condom against the stupid and stubborn pedantry of the school, here at
last in the element lighter customs at the border of France and human light establish and dissolved
again and again the bonds of love, as in the coarser Low German tribe, and the English, where
only the two poles of the same vile prudery and prostitution know, so at ease in the manner
of men would never have been possible. All seals Goethe's only later rebated flower of his
Main and Rhine stay and we must , Assert that even Hermann and Dorothea not only on that scene
plays, but in its essence has flowed from there. Children's feelings and impressions of the lively
old poet Representation of people and places. He was born in the local bourgeoisie, and remained
used it internally for all aristocratic refinement. We need our little town think in one of the
Querthäler of the Rhine, it is probably built of timber and a wall and a dry moat. The town
has a busy, prosperous Population full of joy, curiosity and activity, it is gewerbsam because

Some
factories can be as diligent and many industry

and operated the residents near the city's business and viticulture
and agriculture.

     If by this Convention which is now
proposed we can secure substantial agreement amongst our people in Ireland, it will be worth
all the heartburnings and postponements and disappointments and disillusions of the last thirty
or forty years."

The omens were not favourable to this storm-beaten courage. When he sat down, Sir John Lonsdale
rose to reiterate on behalf of the Ulster Unionists that they "could not and would not be driven
into a Home Rule Parliament"--and that they relied absolutely on the pledges that they should
not be coerced. 

The sight of these monotonous steppes is a great experience, but also a little sad and Precipitate
the end. It is as if all nature were frozen, hardly that now and again the Shade of a small
cloud that announces the approaching rain rushing through Zenith hours, to the Savane falls.
The first sight of the Llanos is perhaps not surprising less than the the Andes. All mountain
country, which be-ing the absolute amount of their highest peaks may have a common physiognomy,
but difficult to get used to the sight of the Llanos of Venezuela and Casanare, the Pampas of
Buenos Ayres and Chaco, the stable, twenty, thirty days long tours provide a picture of the sea.
I knew the plains or Llanos Spanish Mancha and the Gentiles (ericeta) extending from the borders
of Jutland Lüneburg Westphalen and extend up into Belgium. The latter are true steppes, of which
the Man for centuries, only small sections to make arable was able, but the Levels in the west
and north of Europe to give only a faint idea of ​​the immense Llanos in South America. In
the southeast of our continent, in Hungary between the Danube and Tisza rivers, in Russia between
the Dnieper, the Don and the Volga connect the vast grasslands , which seem paved by a long
stay in water all around the horizon and limit. Where I have traveled the Hungarian plains,
on the borders of Germany, between Bratislava and Oedenburg, employing the imagination of the traveler
by the ongoing game the mirage, but its extent is furthest east between Czegled, Debrecen and
Tittel. It is a green sea with two outlets, one at Gran and wheat, the another between Belgrade
and Widdin.

It was believed to characterize the different parts of the world by
saying that Europe has * * Gentiles * * Asia steppes, deserts Africa
* * * * America savannahs, but it makes it to extremes, neither in
the nature of things, nor in the spirit of the languages ​​are founded.

The Asian Are not at all steppes covered with salt plants, used in the savannahs of Venezuela In addition
to the small grass herbaceous mimosa, pepper plants and other dicotyledons before. The levels
of Songarei, between Don and Volga, the Hungarian pusztas * are * true savannahs, Pastures with
rich grass, while on the savannahs of east and west of the Rocky Mountains and occur from New
Mexico Chenopodien containing carbonate of soda and hydrochloric acid. Asia has genuine loose
desert plant, in Arabia, in the Gobi, in Persia. Ever since the desert in the interior of Africa,
what is understood so long under the general name of Sahara, to know you better has learned, you know
that in the east of this continent, as in Arabia, savannahs and grasslands are surrounded by bare,
barren lands. The latter, covered with loose stones, very loose desert plants are missing, but
now the new world almost entirely. I'm just like seen in the lower line of Peru between Amotape
and Coquimbo, on the shores of the Pacific. The Spaniards do not call Llanos, but Desiertos of Sechura
and Atacamez. This desert is not wide but 440 miles long. The Gebirgsart comes across through
the sand by day. There is never a drop of rain, as in the Sahara and north of Tombuctu is found
in the Peruvian desert in Huaura a rich rock salt mine. Everywhere else in the new World there
are desolate, unpopulated areas, but no actual deserts.

The same phenomena are repeated in the most remote landscapes, and instead of these to distinguish
wide treeless plains to the plants found on them, differs is probably the easiest way between
* * deserts and steppes * * * * or savannahs, between bare land without
a trace of vegetation and landscapes, with grasses or small trees
from Class of dicotyledons are covered.

In some works, the names of the American savannahs especially those of the temperate zone,
* meadows * (prairies), but this name fits, as I It seems to bad on pastures, often very thin, if
also covered with 4 to 5 feet high herbs are. The American Llanos and Pampas plains are * true *. You
are in the rainy season beautifully landscaped, but in the driest season, they get the reputation
of deserts. The Kraut decays buried into dust, the ground bursts, the crocodile and the large
snakes are in the parched mud until the first rains in the spring they made the long solidification
. Wake These phenomena occur on dry land lines 50-60 square miles around before, where no waters
flow through the savannah, for on the banks of streams and small pieces standing water meets
the traveler from time to time even in the driest year on Thickets of Mauritia, a palm tree
whose fan-shaped leaves are resistant glossy green.

The Asian steppes are all outside the tropics and are very high plateaus. America has also on
the back of the mountains of Mexico, Peru and Quito savannahs of significant Expansion, but his
most extensive plains, the Llanos of Cumana, Caracas and meta levy, only very little above
sea level and all fall into the Aequinoctialzone. These circumstances
impart to them a peculiar character.

The lakes with no outflow, the small river systems, lost in the sand or by user through the
Gebirgsart as the steppes in the eastern Asia and the Persian deserts are intrinsically come,
not present here. The American Llanos fall to the east and south and flowing waters run into the
Orinoco.

After running these rivers, I had thought earlier that the planes would have to form terraces, the
least 100 to 150 fathoms would be located above the sea. I thought the desert in the interior
of Africa would be high and significant in stages from the coast
to the interior the great continent to rise above the other.

Until now no barometer in the Sahara come. As for the American Llanos, as shown by the barometer
heights, which I observed at Calabozo to Villa del Pao and at the mouth of the Meta, that it does
not exceed 40-50 toises above sea level lie. The rivers have a very weak, often hardly noticeable
case. So it comes that the slightest wind, and when the Orinoco swells the rivers that fall into
it, be pushed backwards. In the Rio Arauca is frequently noted this flow * top *. The Indians
believe a full day to cruise down, while they are running from the mouth to the sources. Between
the down-flowing and upward-flowing waters remains a major body of water still standing in
the by Imbalance vortices form, the vehicles are dangerous.

The most peculiar train of the steppes or savannahs of South America is the complete absence
of all Increases, the fully horizontal position of the whole soil. The Spanish conquerors who
First of Coro ago penetrated to the banks of the Apure, they therefore have no deserts, yet Savannahs,
prairies still called, but planes, los Llanos. shows In thirty square
miles the soil is often no foot-high bump.

This similarity with the ocean surface forces itself of the imagination, especially as to where
the planes take no palm trees, and where one of the mountains to the coast and the Orinoco,
as far away is that you do not look the same as in the Mesa de Pavones. There could be tempted
with a reflectance instrument Sun altitude record, if not * the * country-horizon as a result
of changing the game Refractions, would be constantly enveloped in fog. This flatness of the
land is more fully under the meridian of the east between Calabozo as Cari, Villa del Pao and
Nueva Barcelona; but there is no interruption of the mouths of the Orinoco to the Villa de
Araure Ospinos and, on a * parallel * 180 miles, and from San Carlos to the savannahs on From
Caqueta, a * Meridian * 200 miles. It is above all characteristic of the new Continent, as the
Asian steppe between the Dnieper and the Volga, between the Irtysh and Obi. In contrast, the deserts
in the interior of Africa, Arabia, Syria and Persia, Cobi and Casna many bumps, ridges, ravines,
waterless and solid rock that protrudes from the sand.

Despite the apparent uniformity of their surface are found, however, two things in the Llanos Irregularities
that do not escape the attentive observer. The first type is called bancos; It is true banks,
shallow pools in the desert, broken layers of solid sandstone or limestone, which are 4 to 5
feet higher than the rest of the plane. These banks are sometimes three to four miles long,
and are perfectly flat and horizontally and you recognize her Vorhandenseyn
at all unless you have the right to their edges.

The second bump can only recognized by geodetic or barometric measurements or on the rivers, they
say Mesa. There are Diess small plateau, or rather convex increases, some imperceptibly Toises
high rise. Such are the east in the province of Cumana, in the north of Villa de la Merced
and Candelaria, the mesas * Amana, Guanipa and Jonoro *, from southwest to northeast, the stress
and, despite their insignificant amount of water between the Orinoco and the North Coast Terra firma
divorce. Only the gentle curve of Savane is the watershed, where are the divortia aquarum,
(69) as in Poland, where far from the Carpathians, the watershed between the Baltic and the
Black Sea in the plane itself. Geographers use there, where a watershed, mountain ranges is always
ahead, and we see as also on the cards the like located at the sources of the Rio Neveri, the
Unare, the Guarapiche and Pao. This, reminiscent of the Mongol priests, according to an old superstitious
practice all places where the water flow in opposite directions, Obo * * or small pile of stones
. Build

The eternal monotony of the plains, the great rarity of inhabited areas, the complaints the
trip under a glowing sky and dust-filled air, the view of the horizon, which seems resistant
to retreat before a, the scattered palm trees, one of which looks like the other, and one means
not being able to reach because they are with other tribes confused that appear on the horizon
after another - all together makes Diess that one that steppes occur far larger than they really are.
The planters on the south slope of the coastal mountains to see the
boundless steppes, extending like a green ocean to the south itself.

You know that one of the delta of the Orinoco to the province of Barinas and from there the
Rivers Meta, Guaviare and Caguan, starting from east to west, then northeast to northwest, 380 miles
may well go away in the steppes to the equator, out to the foot of the Andes of Pasto. You know according
to the reports of travelers, the Pampas of Buenos Ayres, the are also covered with fine grass, treeless
Llanos and feral cattle and Horses abound. They are, according to the instructions of our
most maps of America, believes the Continent have only one mountain range of the Andes, which
runs from south to north, and after an undetermined systematic definition they can all levels from the
Orinoco and the Apure on to the Rio de la Plata and the Magellanic Straits linked together.

I
design 'the clearest possible picture of the crowded and general construction of a Mainland, whose
endpoints, under such different climates, they are also, in several Features agree with each
other. To outline the boundaries to be understood and the correct levels, one must know the mountain
chains that form the edge of the same bank. From Küstencordillere, the highest peak in the Silla
Caracas, and by the Paramo de las Rosas the Nevado of Merida and the Andes of New Grenada
related, we have already spoken. A second mountain range, or rather a less high, but far broader
mountain peak runs between 3 and 7 Parallel circuits of the mouths of the Guaviare and Meta
to the sources of the Orinoco, and Marony Esquibo against the Dutch
and French Guyana to.

I call this chain, the Cordillera of the Parime * * or the great events of the Orinoco, they
can be 250 Track miles wide, but it is not so much a chain as a bunch of granitic mountains,
between those small planes and do not constitute all ranks. The mountain of Stock Parime narrows
considerably between the sources of the Orinoco and the mountains of Demerara to the Sierras of
Quimiropaca Pacaraimo and forming the watershed between the Carony and the Rio de Aguas blancas
Parime or Rio. Such is the scene of the enterprises, visit to the Dorado and the great city of Manoa,
the Tombuctu the new world. The Cordillera the Parime is linked to the Andes of New Grenada,
not together, they are by 80 miles wide gap separated. Thought to be the same here by a Sey
large Erdumwälzung been destroyed, which incidentally is not likely, one would assume, they Sey
once from the Andes between Santa Fe de Bogota and Pamplona came off. This observation may
serve, the geographic location of this Cordillera, which until now very little known, impress
the reader better. - A third mountain range connects to the 16 and 18 Degree South Latitude
(via Santa Cruz de la Sierra, the Serranias of Aguapehy and the much- Campos dos Parecis) the Peruvian
Andes with the mountains of Brazil. Such is the Cordillera * of Chiquitos *, which is wider
in the Captaincy of Minas Geraes and the divide between the Amazon and La Plata is not only in the
inner country, in the meridian of Villa Boa, but to a few miles from the coast, between Rio Janeiro
and Bahia.

These three cross chains, or rather these three mountain ranges * *, which, within the limits
of the Delete hot zone from west to east, are separated by a completely flat land, * the Levels
of Caracas * or lower Orinoco, * * the plains of the Amazon and Rio Negro, * The plains of Buenos
Ayres or La Plata *. I do not need the expression * * valleys because the lower Orinoco and
Amazon river flow not in a valley, but only in a broad level, a small channel form. The two
pools at both ends of South America are savannahs or plains, treeless pastures; the middle basin,
into which the year falling tropical rain is almost always a huge forest in which there is no other
PATH exists than the rivers. Because of the vigorous plant growth, which covers the ground
falls here, the flatness of it less, and only the pool of Caracas
and La Plata called man * levels *.

In the language of the colonists are the three above-described basin: the * * Llanos of Barinas
and Caracas, the Bosques * * * or * Selva (forests) of the Amazon, * * and the Pampas of Buenos
Ayres. The forest covers not only the greater part of the * levels of Amazon flow * of the Cordillera
of Chiquitos up to which the Parime, he pulls out two mountain chains, which rarely reach the
level of the Pyrenees. Wherefore are the vast plains of the Amazon, the Madeira and Rio Negro
limited not as sharp as the Llanos * * of * * Caracas and the Pampas of Buenos Ayres. Since the
Forest * * levels and also mountain understand, it extends from 18 degrees south to 7 and
8 ° north latitude, and includes to 120 000 square miles. This forest of South America to, because
there is only one, is six times larger than France, the Europeans know him only on the banks
of some rivers, the flow through him, and he has glades, the extent of the forest in relation
to the stands. We will soon swamp savannahs between the upper Orinoco, and the Conorichite
Cassiquiare, under the 3rd and 4 Degree pass by the width. Under the same parallels there are
other clearings or Savanas limpias (70) between the sources of Mao and the Rio de Aguas Blancas,
south of the Sierra Pacaraima. These latter are savannahs of Caribs and lived in nomadic Macusis,
they pull up to close to the borders of the Dutch and French Guyana on.

We have described the geology of South America, and we now stress the main features out. Runs
along the west coasts of an immense mountain wall, rich in precious metals everywhere, where the
volcanic fire not broken through the eternal snow train: * Such is the Cordillera Andean *. Summit
Trapp porphyry here to get more than 3300 toises high, and the average height of the chain is
1850 toises. She runs away in the direction of a meridian and posted in each hemisphere, under
the 10th Degrees north and 16 and 18 Degree latitude from a side branch. The first of these
branches of the Küstencordillere Caracas is less wide, forming a real chain. The second, the Cordillera
of Chiquitos, and the sources of the Guapore, is very rich in gold and extends eastward In
Brazil, vast plateau with a temperate climate. Between these two, with the Andes is related horizontal
chains of 3 7th Degrees north latitude an isolated Group of granitic mountains, also parallel
to the equator, but not beyond the 71.

Degree of long passes away, then quickly terminates to the west and the Andes of New Grenada not
related. These three cross chains have no active volcanoes, but we do not know, whether the southern,
like the other two, or no trachyte porphyry Trapp added. None the peaks reached the limit of perpetual
snow, and the average height of the Cordillera Parime and Küstencordillere of Caracas is not
quite 600 toises, with the way some Summit rise but 1400 toises above the sea. Between the three
chains are cross-planes, the close of all the westward, to the east and southeast are open.
Given their so- slight elevation above sea level, it makes you try to regard them as * Gulf
* the continued stress in the direction of the rotational flow.

He had now the brilliant idea of reopening for the period of the Convention one of the most
beautiful eighteenth-century dwellings, Ely House, and making it a centre of hospitality and
a meeting-place for friendly outside intercourse. Few more useful assistances were rendered
to our purpose, and certainly none more pleasant.

Lord Desart, a distinguished lawyer, acted closely with Lord Midleton. Sir Bertram Windle,
President of University College, was another of Government's choices--a man of science who
was also very much a man of affairs. At the regular pattern of the villages can be seen that all the
monks and the missions owe the origin. The roads are straight with each other parallel and intersect
at right angles, on the large square in the viereckigten Middle is the church. The Church of
Turmero is a precious, but with architectural Ornaments cluttered building. Since the missionaries
made the clergy court, have the whites Some of the customs of the Indians accepted. The latter gradually
disappear as particular race, that is, they are in the total mass of the population by the mestizos
and represents the zambos, whose number is increasing constantly. However, I have found in
the valleys Aragua of 4000 still found interest-Indians. In Turmero Guacara and they are most numerous.
They are small, but not as stocky as the Chaymas; her eye betrays more Life and mind, which
is probably less a result of strain differences as the higher civilization is. They work like
the free people in daily wages, they are in a short time in which they work, active and industrious,
but what they earned in two months to waste them in a Week for alcoholic drinks in the taverns,
which are unfortunately from day to day.

In Turmero we saw together, a remnant of the militia. You could see the people that these valleys
for centuries had enjoyed an uninterrupted peace. The Captain general wanted the armed forces, get
going again and had great exercises arranged. As had in a mock battle, the battalion of Turmero
on the Victoria fire given. Our Wirth, a police lieutenant was not tired, to tell us how dangerous
such a Maneuver sey. "Around him Seyen guns have been, which could burst at any moment; He
had to have four hours in the sun, and his slaves have him not even a Umbrellas are allowed
to hold over his head. "As soon but apparently the most peaceful nations get used to the war! I
smiled at that time a chicken-hearted that with so naive Candor manifested, and twelve years later,
these same valleys of Aragua, the peaceful plains in Victoria and Turmero that Defilé of Cabrera
and the fertile banks of Lake Valencia, the scene of the bloodiest, most persistent fighting
between the natives and the troops of the mother country.

South of Turmero jump a mountain range of limestone present in the
layer and separates two beautiful Sugar plantations, and the Guayavita
Paja.

The latter belongs to the family of Count Tovar, of anywhere in the province has possessions.
When it was discovered Guayavita brown iron ore. North of Turmero where Küstencordillere, stands
a granite peaks, the * * Chuao on where you see both the sea and the lake of Valencia. About this
rocky ridge, where the eye, to West passes away, you arrive at quite arduous due to the Cacaopflanzungen
rich on the coast at Choroni, Turiamo and Ocumare, places, well known the fertility of their
soil and because of its unhealthiness. Turmero, Maracay, Cura, Guacara, each has its place in
Araguathal mountain path leading to one of the small ports on the Coastal leads.

Behind the village to Turmero, Maracay, one notices a mile on the horizon an object, like a
round hill, like a green vegetated tumulus looks.

It is neither a Hill, another lump of trees standing close together, but a single tree, the famous
'Zamang de Guayre' known throughout the country because of the enormous spread of its branches,
the half a spherical form in the crown of 576 feet circumference. The Zamang is a beautiful Mimosenart,
their tortuous branches divide dichotomously. Its fine, delicate foliage stood out from the
pleasant blue sky. We stayed long among the vegetable vault. The strain is only sixty feet high
and nine feet in diameter, but its beauty is really in the Shape of the crown. The branches
spread out like a huge umbrella and tend to everywhere on the floor by it all around 12 - 15
feet protrude. The outline of the crown is so regular, I found several different diameters, which
I took, 192 and 186 feet long. One side of the Tree was completely defoliated as a result
of the drought, in another place were still leaves and flowers next to each other. Tillandsia Lorantheen
that Pitayapa and other parasitic plants cover the branches and pierce the bark of the same.
The inhabitants of these valleys, especially The Indians hold the tree in high esteem, already the
first conquer as quite as may have found, as he now stands before us, since he was closely monitored,
it is neither became thicker, nor its shape has changed otherwise.
 They were young, no doubt; but the Republican
party claimed specially the youth of Ireland; and these lads expressed with a simple eloquence
very much what was said by older and more articulate voices, uttering the same thought in print.
It is worth while to illustrate here the attitude taken towards Redmond by much of Nationalist
Ireland, for it profoundly influenced Redmond's attitude and action in the Convention. I take,
not casual and partisan journalism, but a passage from a book published by a distinguished
Irish writer who had never publicly attached himself to any party. Mr. James Stephens was in
Dublin during the insurrection; he wrote a book about his own personal observation of it, which
as a record of observation is admirable. But when Mr. Stephens comes to emit opinions, here
is what he has to say:

"Why it happened is a question that may be answered more particularly. It happened because
the leader of the Irish party misrepresented his people in the English House of Parliament.
On the day of the declaration of war between England and Germany he took the Irish case, weighty
with eight centuries of history and tradition, and he threw it out of the window. But the science, the influence of the saddest life and all other
sciences paralyzed, was the theology. The fresh religious Polemics of the Reformation had
the rigid forms of a blind and fanatical orthodoxy left as a precipitate. Wayward theologians
arguing over secondary points of the final dogmatic system with a ferocity and tenacity, in addition
to what each other truly fruitful intellectual work was suffocated. In uniform orthodoxy of all
catheters taught and preached from every pulpit. Every bit of free-thinking head was by tracking
forced to silence and when he resisted, founded the secular sword to help. The mutual hatred of
Lutherans and Reformed was almost worse than their combined against The Catholic Church and the Protestant
courts had the same court preacher influential and intriguing role as confessors to the Catholic.
This dry Scholastic theology against the Catholic Church could at least from the rich treasure
their draw ancient mysticism, art and liturgy and fanaticism gave the Lutheran zealots Kanzelpolemiker
and the Jesuits and the Roman priests of the worst times for nothing. Almost the same as blind
positivism in theology prevailed in the jurisprudence. What in the formula of the symbol was,
here is the formula of Roman law. The lively, with the popular consciousness was as intricate
legal wisdom to the character of a completed Become guild. One is seized by horror when you
take a look at the former Forensics throws. Not only are the processes covered by all the turns
of the formalism with endless Slowness in the length, but no clue about the inner psyche of the
criminal, of the motives and mental suffering that led to the crimes of the social and political Damages
were symptom it was, with the use of torture and extorted confessions, horrible cruel executions
has. The Faculty of Law, where the document sent for review have competed in inhumane decisions.
The monstrous birth, but that the positive law and the positive theology in common embrace generated
were the horrific witch trials, which were in the seventeenth century in Germany often and survived
into the eighteenth century theological darkness and barbarism legal worked together in them. The
philosophy was still the most miserable, depressed = ancilla theologiae =; soon occupied with
the curse, sometimes used in formal business, she took the bandage the sciences about the location
where as the Jews in the political associations. Leibniz turned in his superb, versatile effectiveness
more to the courts and foreign and used its writings of the Latin and French, considerate, gentle,
timid as he was, he inspired the broad ruling dogmatism no concern one. Until the middle of the
eighteenth century the Leibnizian philosophy under systematic understanding of the figure who had
given her Christian Wolff, the other sciences to rationalize. In the hands of philology that
time turned the treasures ancient dead in rock and formed a more weight to depress the spirit.
Far removed by the ideal humanity, which consists of the writings and art works of the Greeks
talks to resolve the frozen refreshing and exciting pulse of the nation, had the philologists
little idea of ​​the true life of those peoples that the object of their scholarly efforts were.
was not until the second half of the eighteenth century by Heyne in Göttingen the dry grammatical-sized
commentators Quote learning, especially their headquarters Saxony, was tempered by the aesthetic
direction, only Friedrich August Wolf emancipated philology as his own science from the lowly
position of a theological and pedagogical Means, except for Butt man were the grammatical
rules are not in the classics, but mostly abstracted from the New Testament. The root of this apparent
non-free everywhere Spirit was in the sad state of education and the school. Prevailed here, as in
the comment discipline of Bakel, as in the teaching of the coercive authority of church and the
tyranny the method. Instead of encouraging the youth in nature-self-development and to humanity
to form, were the schools taught only out of barren pedantry all brilliant Impulses to kill her,
spoke Latin, making Latin verse, was the triumph of Education. The nature of science, still in
childhood, was at every step hampered by the church and its dogmas. In general, the feeling
for nature and the Devotion to her stifled by the supernatural miracles, consider the position,
she, was the mechanical and the teleological. Theology, which was central to everywhere, so
had the whole complex of natural and human things as secular and therefore void excluded from
participation, the study used almost the same as sin: how could the chemical sciences to flourish
even science in general, as long as the theological Position dominated the minds? Going from science
to life and custom over, we find here all caught up in the same unnatural and conventional forms
of dead constricted. The social intercourse inhibited arbitrary decency laws, sprawling ado
and titles, hypocrisy and shameless servility. That you in the form of address was the artificial
He, the He for you completely absurd. Nowhere was the forth man himself, nowhere said the man to man.
The free social education, which flourished in France long ago and had their own rules had created,
was not to Germany in their human Principle, but in their rules over who practiced now a ridiculously
untrue coercion. A prudish morality held both sexes distant from each other, and the stands were
by strict Barriers to divorce, and any extravagance of passion or enthusiasm about the lines of
the Statute of tradition and took to the crowd a loveless and selfish condemnation judge.
As freezes in such a way of life in any direction in formalism and the heart of Nation under a thick
Eisrinde Stood Still, it was also the poetry without roots in the national reality only a tenuous,
artificial existence periods. Since it from the source of the living human feeling was not to draw,
they soon fell into mindless emptiness soon metaphorical images in unbearable splendor, she
was unlikely to form and expression as in the content and conventional. Although Opitz had been
Imperial Council, was the business of the poet still in bad reputation and bad citizens took
his professors at the Göttingen through his verse-making.

From that form of compulsion now, from the self-alienation in arid objective laws govern the nation
due to truth and nature, the feelings, the inner world of the subject of their right recapture to
break the false convenience, the dull prison of pedantry and to open the scholastic light,
this was the work and mission of the eighteenth century, and on this point is where Goethe won
by his poetry the imperishable laurels. All political issues were in this naturalistic and
aesthetic addition to the emancipation Of vision. The fight is against the barriers that restrict
the freedom of subjectivity: the individual is with the deep riddles and mysteries of his inner
life, with all the infinity his feeling that poor scheme to break the finished outer genera, it
is also recognize the self-education in a beautiful world and with the positive sense of their
bodies be fulfilled, and the abstract movements of the arrogant,
entrenched in religion and science Understanding should be resolved
in the life stream of the total all-embracing nature, the custom will
again speak the truth original human emotion and beautiful culture
the wretched, hypocritical morality replace.

As since the time of the Reformation two centuries long held the scepter and the theology formed
the theological interest in the center had, so this new era began on the ruins of the theological
world as the beauty A ruler. Winckelmann first introduced the nation in the sanctuaries of ancient
art, where the reconciliation of nature and the spirit was complete visible in the marble representations
Greek gods, which the theologians denounced as the devil works, and idols of the Gentiles had, he
went on ideals of beauty and true humanity, which he in his art history described with naive
enthusiasm. Lessing's determination was to the school, this nightmare which to Germany, expressed
wegzuwälzen. With skillful unrest in all areas of science critical and art soon, soon making productive
forays, he disturbed all the arrogant Security of the learned acquis and set fire to the rotten
wooden castles, in which that was entrenched. As he described the places where the true source
of poetry, of true religious feeling bubbled, he threw the poems and orthodox teachings of
his Time as empty shells on. Like Winckelmann, art enthusiasts, from the old Lutheran withdrew,
so did not merely Lessing in his writings the most comprehensive learning to bring in the form
of easier dialogic prose, but also threw in his life Forced from all pedantic. Nathan the Wise, his
last work, freed in the spirit of Century, the idea of ​​human love and respect for people from
the positive religions, built on the hatred and were the sole formula. Similarly, also in long
Herder Writing career, the primitive nature of people everywhere sounding tone. Also He sought
the rigid ice had become lifeless forms by the warm breath of the soul to melt, in the drought-Old
Lutheran orthodoxy, he led the invigorating powers of the seal and Sage, love and imagination, mysticism,
vision and oriental imagery, in the Theory of poetry, nature, the genius, the folk song, the immediacy
of artistic Production, the nation and create a historical character determination. Thus attached
to him the dawn of that era, the storming and pressing the inner genius from the shackles of
any Unnatural sought to liberate. Goethe was the poetic genius that this exemption positive
Poet exploits took place, he wanted to go to his own words, give people the feeling of a noble
and bring real life to consciousness. Even in his early songs, the cold on those moralizing, made
poetry meets immediately following, the truest, most naive, soulful Tune our ears, in Werther,
all the suffering and joys of a unilateral emotional life, that is with himself and the world
in a cruel failure, opened before us, in Tasso is also the inner world of the poet in her breast
tearful struggle with the harsh reality that idiosyncratic, and it has not yet put across in
line in front of our eyes magic: the fist is the profound drama of the self, having regard to
itself to the desperately painful struggles in enjoyment and knowledge sought in vain to meet
and finally in the open and effective action to win the peace, are in the Iphigenia we is on
the floor of the already gained victory and the beauty of a noble soul mistress the blind confusion
of passion and curse and crime horrible past; in the Roman elegies in the sweet pleasure of
gratified love, in the naive grace pure human feeling all negative, natural enemy morale and even
as the enemy disappeared from the consciousness and only looking into evidence of a large
extinct World mix drops of melancholy in the cup serene joy, it is more soothing than trübend. So in Goethe's
poetry everywhere inner soul moods are the subject and varying in thousands Modulations he sings
of the suffering and the healing of the breast. The inner infinity of Subject has been explained
and there than to beauty and nobility. Therefore, the female Ideal Goethe succeeded the most brilliant,
because the woman's destiny is with the world To put this into balance, not to fight with her
heroic. With the policy, where the noise That the passion fades and the inner music of the soul
and the quiet natural development Becoming by the outrage of self-will is broken, could this
Goethe and all want it to create anything surrounding sex. Where Goethe a political treat theme
is making, such as in an idol, in the Egmont as it is transformed by his Hand in a painting of
inner mental states. Then fight and scorned by the aristocracy and Lessing very learned wig
heads, nowhere is the political aristocracy, the sultanism, favorites rule his time. He was
a writer, not a journalist. The men of the eighteenth century in France came to the Bastille,
they had to print their books in Holland and let these were burned publicly by the state: the
simultaneous German reformers were were at peace with the censorship, for her books on the liberation
of the inner man and the Private life, not on civil emancipation, wanted to destroy what they
had the statute in art, morality and custom; conquer what they wanted was the world in theological Sense
of the word. Schiller himself, who may be considered the historical dramatist usually called, held
under the Kantian works most of the Critique of Judgement, where the struggle of freedom in
the beauty reconciled, and unfolds in his plays more inclined to psychological descriptions and
the pathos of the individual, as a talent for drawing the brazen broad physiognomy in the big
time. Right Gustav Pfizer says of the Wall stone: Wallenstein does not yet feel that the fate of the
hero is occurring the expression of the world-historical war and the fate of Germany depended
largely; Wallenstein himself we are interested only as an individual, as a psychological,
not as a historical Held, Germany, the bleeding, torn and an even richer future with horrible-looking
Germany at that time is not in the Piccolomini, Wallenstein's death still under represented.
Also in the Mary Stuart is not the conflict between the state and the interest of England Demands of
humanity, not the conflict between Catholicism and Protestantism, not between the Saxon and
the Scottish-French ethnic group, it is not this political conflict, which constitutes the soul
of the piece, but female jealousy brings about the tragic disaster and we are very individual
in the private area Character development. All in the sense that literary epoch is when Schiller's
Announcement of the Horen says it needs to by a general interest to the higher, what is human in, put back into
the minds of freedom and the politically divided World under the banner of truth and beauty to
unite again. That even in the letters of Aesthetic Education Schiller is not the aesthetic culture
to a historical point of transition wanted to go through what the people in the different periods
of world history need to be ripe for political freedom, so that the whole opposition to Schiller
not, as Gervinus wants an empirical classification because of the historical material is but
the Aesthetic Education is intended solely as a morally-nice rebirth, which is they ever completed,
replaced the political rebirth, and it contained, this has Guhrauer admirably against Gervinus and
its one-sided emphasis on the historical-political element explained.

So nothing more natural than to Goethe, the poet of the eighteenth century (for the he was,
although his life and the first third of the nineteenth included), from the political Spirit remained
intact, the other side of the Rhine called such terrible events in life. The German public was
apathetic towards all things political, it moved in all other spheres, including the poet. I
myself and my inner circle told Goethe of his youth concerned us with newspapers and news, we were
to do so, to get to know the people, and people could ever give us much. The Revolution Although initially
found in Klopstock an enthusiastic followers, but like everything in this poet This admiration
was an abstract, and the freedom that he had in mind was a soap bubble the burst very soon,
when the revolution on a concrete floor under the conditions reality designed, as they detail
how each ideal in the historical circumstances had to wade through this, as he had no sense
of real politics enough to to accompany them in this fight, he was the idea at first imperfect form,
the she assumed unfaithful and abused them now with the same grandiloquence, with which he formerly had
praised.

In general, must confess, one is in the German natural little political sense. We are a nation
of family, private life of the mind, and this train runs through the whole History of Germany.
The feudal state of the Middle Ages, Germanic this product rests on the loyalty, love, the feelings, the
devotion of the individual to the individual. The vassal follows the lords, who is himself a vassal
of a higher return: he gives himself to the service a person, not a general idea. Private relations,
private law Ratios are added together the medieval state. Everything falls into a colorful
Variety of specific existences. Each state has its rights and privileges, a freedom stands next
to the other. Ordering a general sense, a human on the same claim are all individual dormant law
does not exist. The Baron, who lives on top of the rock is addressed differently than the serfs,
who is banished to the soil below, both different from the citizens
of the imperial city and in the city, each guild their justice, their
tradition, their patron saint, this monastery has immunities that
are missing that means that the individual controls not the state,
but those for whom he is liable, he is one in outlook and is not the
custom of his country, for such it is not, but the district in which
he was born is, and not the district, but the city whose citizen he
is, and not even this, but the guild to which he belongs.

The feudal state is not really a state because it lacks the form of universality and in him
all civil rights and local. The sense of the premises and in the narrowest sense Native is predominant
in the German nature. Germany has produced no large cities, where the International Transport
suggests itself, where life accumulates to large proportions and at a rapid Shift away roaring:
not more than are those cities and the larger states as before, where altered in the East German
blood by mixing already is. In the small towns under tight local conditions has the peculiar German
bourgeois morality formed. Industrious and hard working citizens of the German multi-day movement in
calm his possessions, lives for the small office and business met its obligations and customary
patience and patience, this genuine German geniuses lead him daily on the same path back and forth.
An oncoming Country's misfortune, the war, the fire he is the passive resistance of his industry,
loyalty towards his home: the evil time passes and with the old sentiments is directed the old
life again. Individual lives and limited spheres divided the city in its interior, the entire
state is out of the reflection of the genuine German citizen; Regulations,
higher orders he receives with innate fear of the authorities, in
addition Glory of the Lord hovers in front of his imagination, and
it stirred him deeply when this through personal Appear, by condescension
or even anecdotes told by his human behavior faithful soul will come
closer. stood before an emperor or king, a word from her heard talking
about is to have an honor that tradition inherited from grandmother
to grandson is he who has sent the transit of the Prince in the half-open
door to listen, white after his hark meaning friends of the wonderful
simplicity and the wonderful Abundance of the royal table to tell
wardrobe.

The German citizens in his Private quiet existence changes everything political in a personal
anecdote. In the weekly paper he takes on particularly those agencies with interest, of strange
Nature games, weird processes and wills and the like. At most night pitcher of beer with the
neighbor when he loves and can pour out a cozy harbor to have to tell you how far back to beat
Turkey in the nations together.
 They
showed us their great linen mills and other huge manufactories; they showed us the shipyards,
in which the frames of monster ships lay cradled in gigantic gantries, works of architecture
as wonderful in their vast symmetry as any cathedral, and having the beauty which goes with
any perfect design combining lightness and strength. Perhaps the most impressive sight of all
was the disbandment of workmen from the yards. Endless lines of empty tramcars drawn up on
the quay awaited the turn-out of some ten thousand artisans, who streamed past where we stood
assembled; and as the crowds swept along, all these eyes, curious, but not unfriendly, scrutinized
us, and one word was in all their mouths as they came up--"Which is Redmond? Where's John Redmond?"

A fortnight later Cork completed what Belfast had begun; and, perhaps because Cork is less
strenuous, the whole atmosphere there was even friendlier. It had almost the quality of a holiday
excursion, for we assisted at the ancient ceremony by which the Lord Mayor of Cork asserts
his jurisdiction over the harbour waters--proceeding outside the protecting headlands and flinging
from him a ceremonial dart outwards to the sea. The fruit was wonderful, although not
as high as at Girgenti and on the sea shore, but as pure as possible, in the unforeseeable Weizenaeckern
no weeds. First we saw nothing but verdant fields, then plowed to moist lichen Oerter a little
piece meadow. Here are also found poplars. Right behind Girgenti we found apples and pears, by the
way to the heights and near the few towns some figs.

This thirty miles, with all that I could recognize the right and left, is older and recent lime
plaster in between. The weathering and processing of these three mutually , the soil due to its
fertility. Contain little sand like it, it crunches among the teeth. A presumption because of
the river Achates will confirm tomorrow.

The valleys have a nice shape, and if they are not flat like we notice but no trace of rain,
only small creeks, barely noticeable trickle down, because everything equal flows directly to
the sea. Little red clover can be seen, the low palm tree disappears and all the flowers and
shrubs of the southwestern side. Thistles is only allowed to take possession of the way, everything
else belongs to the Ceres. By the way, the area very like German hilly and fertile areas, such
as the between Erfurt and Gotha, especially if one's looking for the same. Very much needed Come
together to make Sicily one of the richest countries in the world.

We see little horses on the whole tour, they plow with oxen, and there is a ban, not to slaughter
cows and calves. Goats, donkeys and mules, we met many. The Horses are usually dapple-gray with
black feet and mane, you can find the most magnificent Stallraeume with brick bedsteads. The land
is fertilized with beans and lentils, while the rest Feldfruechte grow this summer grazing. Geschosste
in spikes, even barley green in bundles, red clover are likewise
offered to purchase the pre-riding.

On the mountain is solid limestone about Caltanisetta found with fossils:
the large Shells lay down on top of the small ones.

In the limestone pavement of the town we found with Pektiniten.

As at 28 April 1787.

Caltanisetta behind the hills abruptly cut off in some valleys, their
water pour into the river Salso.

The soil is reddish, very clayey, much was uncultivated, on the order of the fruit pretty good,
but compared to the previous areas, nor back.

Castrogiovanni, Sunday, 29 April 1787.

Even bigger Menschenoede fertility and we had to notice today. Rainy weather was occurred and made
the journey very uncomfortable condition, because we strongly swollen by several Waters had to pass.
At Fiume Salso where one looks around in vain for a bridge, what surprised us a wonderful institution.
Strong men were ready, which takes two and two with the mule riders and luggage written in the
middle and so by a deep Power supply passes through a large Kiesflaeche, was now the all of society
here together, so it went on just this way by the second arm of the
river where the men because once the caulking and by urging the animal
on the right path and maintain current draw received.

At the water's something her bushes, but the inland again loses. The Fiume Salso brings granite gneiss
in a transition, and plain breccierten Marble.

Now we saw the solitary mountain ridges before us what is and what Castrogiovanni the area a serious,
strange character granted. When we long, on the side hinanziehenden rode the way, we found the
mountain consisting of limestone, large, only calcined shells were packed. We see Castro Giovanni
not rest until we all upper reaches of the mountain ridges, because it lies on the rocky slope
to the north. The strange Town itself, the tower, are left at some distance from the village
Caltascibetta seriously even to today. In the Plaine could see the beans in full flower, who
would have But this vision can enjoy! The roads were terrible, more terrible, because they have
been previously paved, and it rained incessantly. The old Enna received us very unfriendly: a
room with floor shops with no windows, so we either in the dark Sitting, or drizzle, we had
just escaped, had to endure again. Some remains our travel stocks
were consumed, and spent the night miserably.

We did a solemn vow never to judge again for a mythological name
of our destination channels.

Monday, 30 April 1787.

Castro Giovanni leads down a rough, uncomfortable stairs, we had to lead the horses. The atmosphere
in front of us deep down covered with clouds, with a wonderful phenomenon
in see the greatest height left.

It was striped black and gray and seemed something physical to be, but how the body would get to
heaven! Our guide informed us, that our Surprise applies a side of Aetna, which look through the
torn clouds: snow and mountain ridges formed alternately the strip, it was not even the highest
summit.

The old Enna steep rock was now behind us, we passed through a long, long, lonely valleys; undeveloped
and uninhabited, they were there, left up to the grazing cattle, which we found beautiful brown,
not large, with small horns, even nice, slim and lively as the Hirschchen.

These good Although grazing creatures had enough, they had them but hampered by immense masses
thistle and extinct gradually. These plants will find the most beautiful opportunity to inseminated
and gender spread, they take an incredible space for pasture sufficed by a few large Landguetern.
Since they do not perennieren, they would now niedergemaeht before flowering, to destroy very well.

However,
we now this hospitable land war plans against the thistles serious thought, to our shame we had to notice
that they were not altogether useless. On a lonely, the inn where we were fed, while a pair of
Sicilian nobility arrived, which moved across the country, a process due to Palermo. With wonder
we saw these two men with serious sharp pocket knives before such a thistle group stand and
the top parts of these aspiring camphor cut down, then they took these prickly gain with tapering
fingers sparkled prejudice, and consumed the interior of the stem of it with pleasure. Thus
they have been working a long time, however, we refreshed to wine,
this time unmixed, and good bread.

The vetturino prepared us like Mark Stengel assured and it was a
healthy, cooling food, but that they wanted us little taste than the
raw cabbage to Segeste.

Heading, 30 April.

In the valley reaches, making the river meanders in St. Paul, we found the reddish soil black and
lime weather, much fallow, very wide field, beautiful valley with the river at very pleasant. The mixed
good loam soil is sometimes twenty feet deep, and mostly the same.
The aloe had driven.

The fruit was beautiful, but sometimes unclean and against the south side calculated, far back.
Here and there small dwellings, no trees to be directly under Castro Giovanni. restrictions
on the banks of the river much pasture, by enormous masses thistle. In the river bed, the
quartz rock again, some simple, partly brecciated.

Molimenti, a new little place, very cleverly laid out in the middle Schoenfelder on the River St. Paul.
The wheat was near completely incomparable, even one twentieth of
May .

Cut The whole area shows no trace of volcanic nature, and even the
Flow leads not like attachments.

The soil, mixed well, more difficult than easy, is all over to see coffee-brown-purple. All the mountains
left that include the river, are lime - sand and stone, the alternation could not watch me, which,
however, weathering, the large, well same fertility of the lower valley have caused.

Tuesday 1 May 1787

By a so equal semi, although the nature of certain fertility patency
Valley, we rode down somewhat glumly, because after so many hardships
endured our scenic purposes entgegenkam nothing.

Kniep had a fairly significant distance outlined, but because of the medium - and the foreground
was too horrible, he added, tastefully jokingly, a Poussin Sches front it, which cost him nothing,
and the sheet to a very pretty pictures made. How quaint like rice like half-truths mentioned.

Our riding man promised to appease our surly nature, for the evening, a good Hostel brought us actually
built a few years ago in a guest house, which in this Ways, particularly in proper distance
from Catania located, the traveler had to be accepted, and we left ourselves with a tolerable
device somewhat since twelve days later conveniently. Strange but we had an inscription on the
wall with beautiful pencil English graffiti written, it contained the following: "Travelers
who you are, beware in Catania in front of the inn to the golden lion, it's worse than if Cyclops,
sirens and Skyllen fielet same time in the mouth. "Whether we have thought of well-meaning
Warner would like to have enlarged the risk somewhat mythological, so we set laid before us, to prevent
the Golden Lion, which we announced as such a fierce animal was. When we asked, therefore,
the mule-driving, where we wanted to turn in Catania, so We staggered: "everywhere except in
the Loewen," whereupon he took the proposal as be content increase,
where he put his animals, but we would have to pamper us there also,
as we done it before.

We were all satisfied to escape the lion's mouth, was our only wish.

Ibla against Major notify Lavageschiebe, which brings down the water from the north. About the
ferry there are limestone, which all kinds sediment, chert, lava and lime has joined, then
hardened volcanic ash, covered with travertine. The mixed Kieshuegel take away always find
up against Catania, and at the same and about the same in the lava of Mount Etna. A probable crater
is allowed to the left. (Just below Molimenti farmers fought the flax.) Like nature loves the colorful,
makes you see here where they served to amuse themselves in the black-blue-gray lava, high-yellow
moss she drew a beautiful red sedum grows lush on other beautiful purple flowers. A caring culture
proves at the cactus groves and vineyards. Now huge crowd approaching lava flows. Motta is a
beautiful, substantial rock. Here the beans are very high perennials.

The lands have to be modified, sometimes very gritty, sometimes mixed better.

The vetturino who might have seen this far from the Fruehlingsvegetation Suedostseite, fell into
a big outcry about the beauty of the fruit, and asked us complacent Patriotism, whether in our
land and probably would give such. It is all sacrificed, we see little, so no trees. All love was
a girl by beautiful, slender Figure, an older acquaintance of our vetturino that ran his mouth
like animals talked, and spun it with such grace as possible its thread. Well caught yellow flowers
to rule on. Misterbianco against the cactus stood again in fences, but fences, all of these wonderfully
educated camphor trees in the vicinity of Catania and more regularly
and nice.

Catania, Wednesday, 2 Mai 1787th

In our hostel we were indeed very ill. The food, as the mule servant could give, was not the best. A
hen, cooked in rice would be, but not to despise been, they would have not as yellow as saffron
immoderate unfit. The most uncomfortable camp we would have almost compelled, Hackert Juchtensack
And once Therefore, the early morning we talked with the friendly hosts. He regretted that
he us suppliers may not be better: "Over there, however, is a house where residents are in
good hands and have every reason to be satisfied. "- he showed us a great corner, from which the
side facing us many good things promised. We immediately ran over, found a enterprising man
who claimed to be a servant wages and in the absence of the host us a nice Room next to a hall
instructed also assured the same time that we operated again cheapest should be. We asked ungesaeumt
hergebrachterweise what for Quarter, table, Wine, breakfast and other Discretionary be paid.
It was all cheap, and we managed to hurry over here our little deeds, in the vast gilded commodes
classified. Kniep was the first time the opportunity to expand its board, and he ordered his
drawings, I noticed my. Then, happily, about the beautiful rooms, were we enjoy on the balcony
of the room, the view. Having considered this sufficiently and praise, we turned back to our
shops, and behold! Because up there over our heads a large golden lion. We looked at each other
concern, smiled and laughed. From now on, but we looked around, if not look somewhere out one of the
Homeric terrors would like.

Nothing of the sort was visible, however, we found the room a pretty young woman with a child
of about two years herumtaendelte, but immediately by the movable half-host scolded crude stood:
they should have to ignore! it was said, they have nothing here To do .-- "It is hard that you
chase me away," she said, "the child is not at home to pacify, if you're gone, and the gentlemen allow
me certain that your presence in the Little to calm. "The husband had it not stop there, but
they looked carry away, the child screamed in the door is completely
pathetic, and we had to ask last seriously that the pretty madam stayed.

Warned

by the British, it was no trick to see through the Comedy, we played the newcomers, the innocent,
but he made his loving fatherhood are the best. The child actually was on friendly with him, probably
had the alleged mother gekneipt under the door.

And they had stayed in the largest innocence, as the man left, a letter of recommendation bring about the
chaplain of the Prince Biscaris. Continue dahlte until he returned and indicating the Abbe himself
would appear to us to inform of sewing.

Catania, Thursday, 3 May 1787

The Abbe, who had already greeted us last night, appeared early today and led us in the palace, which
is one storey on a high pedestal, and that we first saw the museum where marble and bronze images
are together, vases and all kinds of such antiquities. We had several opportunities to expand
our knowledge, but especially us in thrall the fall of one of Jupiter, whose casting I already knew
from table leg workshop and what bigger does prerogative, as we could judge. One inmate was the
most necessary historical information, and now we reached a large, lofty room. The many chairs on
the walls around testified that large company sometimes gather here. We put us in anticipation
of a favorable reception. Then came a pair of woman and went in. longitudinally up and down.
They talked earnestly with each other. When they are perceived, was on the Abbe, I likewise,
we were inclined. I asked who they were and was told the younger was the princess, the older a noble
Catanierin. We were set back, they went up and down, as one would
do in a market place.

We were led to the Prince, who, as I was already noticed us his coin collection vorwies "special
trust, as well earlier his Lord and his father later in such a showing, and many have lost
his usual readiness by been reduced somewhat. Here I could now seem somewhat knowledgeable, as
I had taught me when viewing the collection of Prince Torremuzza. I learned again and helped me on
that lasting Winckelmann tables theme, that through the various Passed through periods of art,
pretty much out. The prince, completely informed about these things, because he saw no expert,
but attentive lovers before him, we liked her in everything, according
to which We researched teach.

After these considerations, we devoted considerable time, but still
too few, were we are about to take leave us, as he led us to his mother,
the rest woselbst small art works were on display.

We found a sizable, of course, noble woman who greeted us by saying, "Look with me again, my
lords, you will find everything here yet, as my late husband collected and has ordered. This I am
grateful to the piety of my son, me best in his living rooms, not just remove it here is not the
slightest or unexpected, can which procures his blessed father and standing up, so I have the double
advantage both live on for so many years ago in the usual way, as well as ever the excellent to
see strangers and to know closer to regard, our treasures, from as
far places .

Come here "

It closed us out even on the glass cabinet in which the work preserved in amber stood. The Sicilian
is different from the Norse that he of the clear and opaque wax - and honey color with all the shadows
of a saturated yellow ascends to the most beautiful Hyazinthrot. Urns, cups and other things
were cut from this including one large, require admirable pieces of the material sometimes
had to. To these items and to cut shells, as they are manufactured in Trapani, also at selected
ivories had the great pleasure your lady and knew it to tell some light-hearted story. The prince
gave us on the serious subjects attention, and cathartic cheerful
and instructive for several hours over.

Meanwhile, the Princess had heard that we were German, so she asked for Mr. von Riedesel, Bartels,
Muenter, which they all knew and their character and behavior appreciate very well distinctively knew.
We parted reluctantly from her, and she seemed We reluctantly omitted.

This island state has always a little lonely, only by temporary Participate and get refreshed.

The priest then led us in the Benedictine monastery in the cell of a brother, its sad to moderate age
and appearance in the retired little merry entertainment promised. However, he was the artful
man, who the vast organ of this church alone the rankings to know. When he heard more than guess
our wishes, he fulfilled them in silence; we went into the very spacious
church, edit it, the magnificent instrument, durchsaeuselte until
the last corner with the softest touch as well as most violent Toenes
and durchschmetterte.

Anyone seen the man before that date, would have believed it was a
giant that such violence exercise them, but his personality as we
already knew we admired was that he in this Struggle is not wiped
out long ago.

Catania, Friday, 4 Mai 1787th

Soon after dinner the Abbe came with a cart, as he shows us the remoter parts of the city should.
When boarding a wondrous place dispute occurred. I was first entered and it would have been sitting
to the left hand, he, enter, explicitly requires that I herumruecken and should take him to
my left, I asked him, like ceremonies . Refrain from "Excuse me," he said, "that we are sitting, because
if I my place to your Take the right, so everybody thinks that I'm
going with you, I'm sitting on his left, so It is stated, that your
ride with me, namely me, who you in the name of the princes the city
show.

"By contrast, of course, nothing wrong, and so it happened.

We drove hinaufwaerts the streets, where the lava, which in 1669 a large part of this city destroyed,
until the present day remained visible. The rigid fire power was processed as another rock, even
to him were streets mapped out and partially built. I proposed an undoubted piece of Molten
down, remember that before I left from Germany already the dispute
over the Vulkanitaet the basalts had caught fire.

And so I did it at several places to go to various amendments.

Would, however, locals are not even friends of their country, did not pay for themselves, either a
benefit or science's sake, what is remarkable in their area, compiled, the traveler would need long
torment in vain. Even in Naples, I had the Lavenhaendler very encouraged here in a far higher sense
of the Knights Gioeni. I found in its rich, very gallant established collection, the lavas of
Etna, the basalts at the foot of it, altered Rock to recognize more
or less, everything was kindly presented.

Most had I admire zeolites from the rugged, standing in the sea cliffs at Jaci.

When we asked the knight about the center, how to behave have to do to climb Mount Etna, he wanted
from a venture to the summit, especially in the current season, even hear nothing. "Absolutely," he
said when he asked us for forgiveness, "the arriving here Strangers to see the thing for too
easily, we are the other neighbors of the mountain already satisfied if we have a couple of times
cut to length in our lives the best opportunity to reach the summit have. Brydone, who first
ignited by his description of the desire for this fire summit has not come up; Count Borch leaves the
reader in suspense, but he is only to a certain height reached, and so I could tell from several.
For now extends the snow is still too far down and spreads insuperable obstacles. If you love
to follow my advice, so you can ride tomorrow in good time to the foot of the Monte Rosso, climb
to this level and, from there you will enjoy the most magnificent sights and also notice the
old lava, there sprang in 1669, unfortunately this is hereinwaelzte to the city. The view
is beautiful and clear, it is better to to leave the rest to tell.

"

Catania, Saturday, 5 Mai 1787th

Obedient to the good rate, we went to the time on the road and arrived at our mules always backward
looking, the region by the time nor ungebaendigten lavas. Jagged Clumps and sheets to meet
us stared through which only a random path from the animals was found. On the first significant
height, we kept quiet. Kniep drew with great Precision what was hinaufwaerts before us: the
Lavenmassen in the foreground, the double peak Monte Rosso left,
just about us, the forests of Nicolosi, from which the snow, little
fuming summit also arose. We were approaching the red mountains, I
climbed up: it is completely made of red volcanic gravel, ashes and
stones heaped together. At the
opening of our session there it was decided to appoint a Grand Committee of twenty, whose task
should be, "if possible, to prepare a scheme for submission to the Convention, which would
meet the views and difficulties expressed by the different speeches during the course of the
debate." The Convention itself, after its deliberations of that week, would adjourn until the
Committee was in a position to report. This second stage, purely of committee work, was to
last much longer than anyone anticipated: the Convention did not reassemble till the week before
Christmas. but
    the city has returned just as deserted. Not fifty, Seemed to me
    that were left of all our residents, etc

    Without looking like worthy pomp in the parable:
    
    Like the wandering man before the fall of the sun Try
    again in the eye, the fast disappearing, and seized, Then
    in the dark bushes and on the side of the rock Float sees her image,
while he turns the eyes only Hasten it before and shiny and varies
in beautiful colors.

    
    Or in the depiction of nature:
    
    So the two were falling towards the sun, The clouds are deep in a
threatening thunderstorm veiled, From the veil, now here now there,
with glowing eyes Beaming over the field, the ominous lighting.

Goethe owed the beauty of his hexameter, in Germany, where the school and the Craft was always powerful,
was low critical recognition, only the ear and the right Feeling, because the theory of it was foreign
to him. He was, as once due to the iambic Moritz, so as to Voss, the school and would have less of
this in a happy instinct much bad habit can accept.

    Every now and then appear in the poem Poetry of tricks, however,
we are just the metric errors.

When it is said:

    Enter ye come into the serene space, cooler in the Sälchen,

then
the diminutive 'Sälchen' for 'hall' a very makeshift Voss, forcing
two syllables, where the meaning would have been content with a. Even
the soon used pretiöse genitive:

Carefully put the mother of the
beautiful clear wine

the unnecessary added spondee 'carefully' because
the solicitude is here no significant Train, and the whole of the
following description of the ground to Dutch bottle, the green glasses,
etc is not pleasant striking imitation of the poet of Luise.

Voss also meet several times popular abrasive spondees: on half-true words caught, even went to Paris,
that they fled unwillingly, from the shy, uncertain glances generous a girl so accomplished,
and it may well be that some of the poets Make the type as a special metric jewelry into corrected,
as he chants the last the poem again carefully with Humboldt went through and used the prosodic
remarks which he will report to Schiller.


On the other hand, the existing distribution of seats was hard on Unionist Ulster: the great
mass of population in and about Belfast was under-represented. Ulstermen said that while Nationalists
professed great desire to give favour to minorities, in reality they persisted in keeping their
political opponents at an unfair disadvantage. What Fear
would have attacked him, he would be an hour earlier arrived in Kerepes, and would have it led
to the accident to the house of the professor of natural history Mosch Terpin! - Hundreds of
students had realized herausstroemend from the house, surrounded him, noisily disputing, etc.,
and yet strange dreams had come to him in the head about this confusion, about this Gear.

The Kollegia Mosch Terpin visited namely Kerepes across most frequently. He was as I said,
Professor of Natural History, he explained that as it rains, thunder, lightning, why the Sun
shines by day and the moon at night, how and why the grass grows, etc., so that each child had
to understand it. He had the whole of nature in a charming white compendium combined so that
he handle them easily at will and showing for each question could pull out the answer like a
drawer. He established his reputation first by when he had it brought out happy after many physical
tests that the darkness arising mainly from lack of light. This, and that those very physical implement
experiments with much skill in nice flying tricks and knew even amusing Hoax drove him with
the incredible popularity. - Allow me, my gracious reader, that as you as much better as the famous
scholar Ptolemy Philadelphus students know, since you do not know nothing dreamy about his fear,
I introduce you now to Kerepes to the house of Professor Mosch Terpin, just as he finished his
college. One among the herausstroemenden students immediately captivates your attention. You
gewahrst a well-designed Young man of three to twenty-four years, from his dark eyes shining,
an inner lively, beautiful spirit eloquently speaks. Would be almost bold look to call be, if not the
schwaermerische sorrow, as it lies across the pale face, a veil conceals the same burning rays.
His coat of black fine cloth, filled with torn velvet is cut to almost altteutscher kind, including
the delicate dazzling white lace collar, and the velvet beret, the beautiful chestnut locks
on the sits fits quite well. It is very pretty this dress because it's very nature, his propriety
in motion and position, his face meaningful education to truly a beautiful anzugehoeren pious past
and it therefore seems not just to the affectation may think, as in petty aping misunderstood misunderstood
as role models in Exigencies of the present is often the norm. This young man, you, dear Reader,
at first glance so wohlgefaellt, is none other than the student Balthasar, decent, wealthy
people child and good - of course - busy - which I thee, O my reader, in the strange story to
write that I made no other remember to tell. -

Ernst, in thought, as was his custom, walked from the College of Balthasar Professor Mosch
Terpin the gate in order to place the fencing, in the graceful grove to go, which is barely
a few hundred yards from Kerepes. His friend Fabian, a pretty Jolly fellow of view and just
such an attitude ran after him and overtook him close outside the
gate.

"Balthasar" - Now called Fabian loud, "Balthasar, well, do you back out into the forest and Philistines
as a melancholic wander lonely, while capable boys bravely practice the noble art of fencing!
- I beg you, Balthasar, let at last away from your crazy, weird goings
and was again very merry and happy as you are otherwise well were.

Come! - We will do in a few gears to try and do you want more out shall cease to 'I be with you.
"

"You mean well," said Balthasar, "you mean well, Fabian, and that's why I do not want resent
to you, that you give me some trailer on web and walk like a madman and me desire to bring some
of which you have no idea.

Now you belong again to the strange Those who adore everyone they walk alone, for keeping a melancholy
fools and want him to handle and cure their own way, like the courtiers paying homage to the prince
Hamlet, then the little man, as he assured not to be understood on the Floetenblasen, was a competent
teacher. So I want you, dear Fabian, spare but now, by the way But you ask sincerely that you
look to your precious Fechterei with Rapier and Hieber Some seek another companion and walk
away let me calm my way like it. "" No, no! " Fabian said, laughing, "you do not escape me, my dear
friend - Will not you come with me! the fencing, so I go out with you into the woods. It is
the duty of the faithful Friend, you cheer in your Truebsinn. Come, dear Balthasar, come only
if you then have no other wish. "

He took his friend by the arm and walked briskly away with him. Balthasar bit in silent rage teeth
and persevered in gloomy silence, while Fabian told in one go funny and amusing. It went under
with a lot of silly, whatever wont to happen with the funny narrative
in one go.

When she finally entered the cool shade of the fragrant forest, as the bushes as whispered in
wistful sighs, as the beautiful melodies of rushing creeks, the songs
of the Waldgefluegels fernhin sounded and woke the echoes, of them
in the Bergen said, suddenly stood still and cried Balthasar, as he
spread his arms wide, as though devils he tree and shrubbery loving
embrace, "Oh, now I am well again - incredible! well "- Fabian looked
at his friend a little amazed at how someone who can not make head
or tail from the other's speech, did not know what to do with it.

As summarized his Balthasar Hand and cried with delight: "Not true, brother, now you also goes
to the heart, now understand thou the blessed mystery of the forest solitude? "-" I do not understand
you entirely, dear brother, " Fabian replied, "but if you feel that you take a walk here in
the forest probably does so I am completely in your opinion. I'm not even like to walk, especially in
good company can lead in the one that rational instructive conversation? - For instance, it is
probably a true Desire to go with our Professor Mosch Terpin about the country. He knows every
little plants, each Blade of grass and white, as it is called by name and which class it belongs,
and understands to wind and weather - a "" Stop, "cried Balthasar," I pray you, hush! - You touch
something that could make me mad gaeb, 'otherwise no consolation for that. The way in which the professor
talks about the nature, tears up my insides. Or rather, I edited it a ghastly Horror when I
would see the madman, the foppish foolishness in king and ruler self-made Strohpueppchen caresses,
hoping to Embrace, the royal bride! His so-called experiments seem to me like a horrible mockery
of the divine being, whose breath breathes us in nature and in our innermost soul, the deepest
most sacred Forebodings upset. Often I tempted him his glasses, his vials, all his to smash
stuff, I did not think the fact that the monkey is not so draining to the fire to play until it is
the paws burned. - Look, Fabian, I am frightened by these feelings, pressed together in my heart Mosch
Terpin lectures, and well I like you, then profound occur and misanthropic than ever. I then felt
as though the houses have zusammenstuerzen my head, an indescribable fear is driving me out of
the city. But here, here, now fulfilled my mind a sweet sleep. mounted on the flowery lawn,
I look up into the wide blue of the sky above me and, over time to the cheering forest pull the
golden clouds like beautiful dreams of a faraway world of blissful joy! - O my Fabian, then
rises from my own breast a wonderful spirit, and I hear ' it as he speaks in mysterious words with
the bushes - with the trees, with the waves the forest of Bach, and I can not to mention the
joy, then in sweet melancholy apprehension my whole being perfused "-" Ah, "said Fabian," why,
that's again the old eternal Song of sorrow and joy and talking trees and Waldbaechen. All your lines
are full this type of things that fall not too bad in the ear and are used with advantage, if
you do nothing more behind it investigated. - But tell me, my most excellent Melancholikus,
if you offend Mosch Terpin lectures in fact, so awful and annoying, I say only, why on earth
are you in any hineinlaeufst why you will not miss a single and then of course always sit silent
and motionless with eyes closed like a dreamer "-" question me, "said Balthasar, lowering his
eyes," I wonder why not, dear Friend! - An unknown force draws me every morning into Mosch Terpin
house. I feel ahead of my pains, and yet I can not resist, a dark a fate tear me away! "-" Ha
- ha, "- Fabian laughed out loud," ha ha ha - as fine - as poetic, as mystical! The unknown force
that pulls up in Mosch Terpin house is located in the dark blue eyes of the beautiful Candida!
- That you're in love over head and ears in the Professor's cute little daughter, who we all
know long ago, and so we keep you at your Fantasy, your foolish beings benefit. With lovers,
it is no different. You are up in the first stage of the disease and have love in late Juenglingsjahren
up to all the strange antics comfortable that we, I and many others, the sky it be blessed!
without a large audience watching the end went through in school. But believe me, my sweet Heart
- "

Fabian, meanwhile, had taken his friend Balthasar again by the arm and was soon with him further
advanced. Just now she came out from the thicket on the broad way, the middle led through the
forest. Since saw Fabian, as the distance a horse without a rider in a Approaching cloud of dust
enveloped trotted. - "Hey, hey!" he cried, breaking off in his speech, "Hey, hey, there's a damn
nag gone through and has sold her rider -. That we have to start and look after the rider in
the woods, "and he stood in the middle in his way.

Nearer and nearer came the horse because it was as if both sides a pair of riding boots in the
air and down on the saddle and dangling something black lively and moving. Just in front of Fabian
rang a long shrill Prrr - Prrr - and that very moment he also flew a pair of riding boots to
the head, and a little strange, black thing dislocated towards him
between the legs.

Wall still stood with the big horse and sniffed long neck vorgestrecktem his tiny little master,
which rolled in the sand and finally laboriously sent on their feet. The tiny tot's head stuck deep
between the high shoulders, He was high with his emergence on the chest and back, with his short
body and its Spinnenbeinchen to look like an apple impaled on a fork, where you face a grimace
cut. So when this strange little monster Fabian saw standing before him, he broke in a loud
laughter from. But the little pressuring the Barettlein he from the floor taken away, said defiantly
in the eye and by Fabian pierced with wild eyes, in rough, deep hoarse
voice, "Is this the right way to Kerepes?" - "Yes, sir!" answered
Balthasar mild and serious, and handed the boy out the boots he had
culled.

All trouble of kids to put on the boots was in vain, he put one over intersecting others for
a groan and rolled in the sand. Balthasar put both boots together upright; raised her children
in the highest, and gently put him down as well leaving both feet in the serious and wide
sheaths. Very proud beings who propped a hand in the hand; the other down to the cap, the boy
cried: "Gratias, sir!" and went to the horse out, he took the reins. All attempts to reach the
stirrups to climb up or on the big animals, however, were in vain. Balthasar, always serious and
mild was added, and the little rose in the stirrups. He might well be too strong impetus given
have, because in that moment when he sat up, he was on the other hand very below. "Not so
hot, darling Mosje!" Fabian said, adding he once more in a resounding Laughter broke out. "The
devil is your dearest Mosje," the boy screamed so angry as he patted the sand from their clothes,
"I'm Studiosus, and if you likewise are, it is India ink, giving me laugh like a rabbit foot
in the face, and you have to tomorrow Kerepes fight me! "" thunder, "said Fabian constantly
laughing," thunder, the times is an able fellow, an everyday guy in terms of courage and true Komment.
And so he raised his kids, all fidgeting and reluctance notwithstanding, in the height and set
him on the horse, which immediately trotted with his little master funny whinny. - Fabian held
Both sides, he would choke with laughter. - "It is cruel," said Balthasar, "a People laugh, has neglected
the nature of such appalling manner in which the small riders there. Is he really a student,
so you have to beat him, namely, runs's also against all other academic custom, on guns, because
he has not yet Rapier Hieber able to lead. "-" How serious, "Fabian said," as serious as truebselig
you all again take, my dear friend Balthasar. Nie's occurred to me to laugh at a freak. But tell
me, should such a cartilaginous Daeumling sit on a horse, about whose Neck to look away he can
not? Can he put the little feet in such a wicked long boots? he may just one subsequent Kurtka
with a thousand cords and tassels and tassels may he wear such a strange in velvet beret? may
he such an arrogant, defiant nature ? Accept he may wring from such barbaric hoarse sounds? - Can
it all wondering I, without being laughed at by law as a die-foot rabbit? - But I must enter,
I must look with the Rumor, the it will be if the knight moves in Studiosus on his proud steed!
With you but today is even what to do! - Fare thee well! " - Posthaste Fabian ran back through
the forest to the city. - Balthasar left the open road and lost himself in the most dense
shrubbery, as he sank down on a moss covered seat, so overwhelmed by the bitter feelings. Well
'it might be that he is gracious Candida really loved her, but he had this love as a deep, tender
secret in the depths of his soul for all people, so shut against themselves. So when Fabian
without so secret, so careless about it, said it was as rough hands down in the insolent arrogance
Veil of the holy image down to touch which he dared not, as must now Holy angry with himself
for ever. Yes, Fabian's words seemed to him an abominable mockery his whole being, his sweetest
dreams.

"So," he said in excess of his displeasure, "so deems an amorous fops you love me, Fabian! - For
a fool, which will run in Mosch Terpin lectures, at least an hour passes to be with the beautiful
Candida under one roof, the lonely in the forest roams to meditate on wretched verses to the beloved
and more pathetic to write down spoils of the trees, silly Namenszuege in their smooth bark drastic,
in the presence the girl spared no word brings to market, but only sighs and groans and whining
Faces cuts as if he was suffering from spasms, the withered flowers that she wore on her breast,
or even the glove, which she lost on the bare chest carries - in short, of a thousand puerile Commits
follies! - And therefore, Fabian, you tease me, and therefore probably laugh at me all guys
, and so I am including the inward world, which I worked, perhaps a subject of derision. - And
the sweet - lovely lovely Candida - "

As he uttered this name, it drove him through the heart like a fiery dagger! - Oh! - An inner
voice whispered to him at the moment too loudly that he had only just Candida's due in Mosch
Terpin House, arguing that he was making verses to the beloved, to buy their Name cut into the
hardwood, that he remain silent in her presence, sighing, groaning, that He wilted flowers
that she lost, wear on the chest, thus really in all Fall into folly, as they can advance
only him Fabian. - Only now, he felt it right how unspeakably beautiful but love the Candida, but
at the same time, that is strange enough the purest deepest love
in the outer life to create something foppish, which is perhaps the
deepest Irony attributable to the down nature in all human activity.

He might be right, it was entirely wrong, however, that he began to complain about it much.
Dreams that he otherwise compassed were lost, the voices of the forest sounded to him like scorn
and ridicule, he ran back to Kerepes.

"Mr. Balthasar - mon cher Balthasar" - it called him. He opened his eyes and stood fast magic stand,
for he came to meet the Professor Mosch Terpin, the arm of his daughter Candida led. Candida welcomed
to the Bildsaeule torpid with the gay-friendly impartiality, their own.
 In the result there
would be an uprising of opinion in Ireland against a measure so framed; the fiasco of July,
1916, would repeat itself.

Against this, and prompting us to acceptance, was the view very strongly held by Redmond, that
Government urgently needed a settlement for the sake of the war, and would use to the utmost
any leverage which helped them to this end. An agreement with Lord Midleton would mean a Home
Rule proposal proceeding from a leading Unionist statesman who spoke for the interest in Ireland,
which, if any, had reason to fear Nationalist government. This would mean necessarily a profound
change in the attitude of the House of Lords and of all those social influences whose power
we had felt so painfully. Government could undoubtedly, if it chose, carry a measure giving
effect to this compact.

Further, weighing greatly with the instincts of the rank and file was the motive which prompted
Irish Nationalists to welcome the advance made by those whom Lord Midleton represented. If ever there contains some salts, such as sulphate of soda or sulphate of magnesia, they may
be only in very small quantity of it. Since we hardly any reagents in we had, so we filled two
bottles at source and sent it to the nutritious milk of the so-called Kuhbaums (Vaca), via
Havana and Porto Cabello, in Furcroy and Vauquelin in Paris. That water coming directly from
the granite mountains, so pure are one of the most remarkable phenomena on both continents.
(56) Where are we to the hydrogen sulfide gas derived? From the decomposition of sulfur or iron
pyrite layers can not happen. Stir it from sulfur calcium, magnesium, sulfur, or other buried Semimetals
ago that contains the interior of our planet in the oxidized rock crust?

In the gorge of the hot water from Mariara, in the small funnels with a temperature 56-59 degrees,
come from two water plants, a membranous, the air bubbles, and one with parallel fibers [Conferva?].
The former has great resemblance to the Ulva labyrinthiformis Vandellis that occurs in the European
hot springs. On the island of Amsterdam looked BARROW [Trip to Cochin] and Marchantia Lycopodium
bushes in places where the temperature the soil was much higher. So a usual charm * * acts
on the organs of plants. Aquatic insects in the water come from Mariara not available. One
finds frogs in it, those of snakes persecuted, are jumped and have died.

South of the gorge, in the plain, which extends to the lake shore, is another hydrogen sulfide-containing, not as warm
and less gas containing source-to-day. The column from which the water flows, is six toises higher
than the above-described funnel. The thermometer rose in the Column of only 42 °. The water
collects in a large tree-lined, almost circular, 15 and 18 ft wide and 3 feet deep pool. In this bathroom
to throw the unfortunate slaves, when they are covered against sun, dust, their day's work on the
adjacent Indigo and have done sugar fields. Although the water of the Baño * * usually 10 -
14 degrees warmer than the air, call it the black people but refreshing, because in the hot zone
all so is what produces the forces, trying to soothe Nervenaufregung or even a sense are of
well-being. We even tried the healing effects of this bath. We left our tie hammocks to the
trees that provide shade for the pool, and stayed a whole Day at this beautiful place where there
are very many plants. Near the Baño de Mariara we found the * * or Gyrocarpus Volador. The wings
of this great tree fruit fly as Shuttlecocks when they separate from the fruit stems. When we shook
the branches of the Volador, swarmed in the air of these fruits and their simultaneous falling
of the granted most remarkable sight. The two striped membranous wings are bent so that the air
when falling down at an angle of 45 degrees is pressed against them. Fortunately, the Fruits
we picked ripe. Which we sent to Europe and they germinated in the gardens Berlin, Paris and
Malmaison. The many Voladorpflanzen, now understood in the greenhouses provides all come from
the only tree of the species, which is at Mariara. The geographical Distribution of the different
types of Gyrocarpus that Brown expects to Laurineen is very striking. Jacquin saw a way for the
Cartagena Indias, a different kind, grows on the mountains to the coast of Coromandel, Roxburgh
has described, a third and come fourth in the Southern Hemisphere prior to the coasts of New
Holland.

While we are after the bath, according to local custom, semi-wrapped
in a blanket from the sun let dry, a small mulatto approached us.

After he greeted us friendly, held giving us a long speech about the power of water from Mariara,
about the many patients who they attended for several years, the favorable location of the
source between two cities Valencia and Caracas, where the decayed morals going worse every
day. He showed us his House, a small open hut made of palm leaves, in a fence, very close to,
a Stream that runs into the bathroom. He assured us we find there all possible facilities, Nails
to fasten our hammocks, ox-skins to sleep on benches pipe, earthenware always with fresh water,
and what we will get to the bathroom at best, * * Iguanas, large Lizards, the meat for food is a refreshing.
We learned from this lecture, that the poor man was sick of us who wanted to set up at the
source. He called the "water inspector and pulpero * * (57) of the place." Even had his courtesy
towards us to an end when he learned that we were just there out of curiosity, or, as we in
the colonies, the true land of milk and honey, says, "para ver, no mas" (see, nothing more).

We
used the water from Mariara successfully rheumatic swellings, old sores and referred to the
terrible skin disease, Bubas not always syphilitic origin is. Since the sources contain very little
hydrogen sulfide, one must swim, where they come to light.

Furthermore, it trickles over the water, the indigo fields. The rich owners of Mariara, Don Domingo
Tovar went in order to build a bath house and set up an institution where the wealthy were a little
more than lizards to eat meat and skins on the benches for resting.

On 21 February evening we left the beautiful Hacienda de Cura after Guacara and Nueva Valencia on. Because
of the terrible heat in the day, we traveled at night dear.

We passed through the Weiler Punta Zamuro at the foot of high mountains las Viruelas. On the way are
great Zamang or Mimosa, whose master is 60 feet high. The almost dare right branches of the same
encounter more together than 150 feet away. Nowhere have I seen a more beautiful, dense foliage.
The night was dark, and the Devil's Wall and its jagged rocks appeared occasionally in the
distance on, illuminated by the glow of the burning savannahs or wrapped in reddish clouds of
smoke. Where the brush was thickest, the horses were afraid if the cries of an animal, behind the
seemed to come from. It was a large tiger that has been three years in these mountains inconveniences,
and the pursuit of the wildest fighters had escaped. He carried horses and mules even from fences
gone; but since he was no lack of food, he never had people incurred. The Negro who led us, raised
a wild cry to scare away the tiger, which, of course not. The Jaguar strokes, according to how the
European wolf, the traveler, even if he does not want to incur, and the Wolf Diess does in the
open, on open stretches of land, the jaguar creeps toward the road and appears from time to time
in the bushes.

The twenty-third, we brought the house of the Marques del Toro in
the village Guacara, a very strong Indian community, too.

The natives, the Corregidor, Don Pedro Peñalver, was a very educated man, are quite wealthy. They
had just one at the Audiencia Lawsuit won, the winning bids for the lands back to them, which
they disputed the Whites made. An avenue of trees leading from Caroline Guacara after Mocundo.
I saw here for the first This magnificent plant that one of the most distinguished ornaments
of the greenhouses in Schönbrunn is. (58) Mocundo is a rich sugar plantation of the family Toto. One
can find even what in this country is so rare, "the luxury of agriculture," a garden, artificial
trees and the water on a Gneißfels a summer house with a * or * Mirador Belvedere. It has as
a magnificent view of the western piece of the lake, the mountains all around and on a palm
forest between Guacara and Nueva Valencia. The sugar fields with the pale green the young
tube seem like a long meadow. Everything bears the stamp of abundance, but build the country,
have their freedom and share it. In Mocundo to build with 230 Negroes 77 Tablones or * * cane
pieces, each measuring 10,000 square-Varas (59) and annual net income 200-240 piastres are. One
sets the cuttings of the Creole and Otaheite cane in April, with the former by 4 each, but the
last 5 Shoe today. The tube needs 14 months to maturity. It blooms in October, when the seedling
is strong, we cuts but the peak before the panicle develop. In all monocots (the maguey, being
built in Mexico because of the * * pulque, the wine is available from the palm and sugar cane)
the juices from the flower of a different mix. The sugar factory is in very Terra Firma flawed
because it fabricirt only for consumption in the country and one for sales in the Great who prefer
to keep the so-called * * papelón than of refined and raw sugar. This papelón is an impure,
yellow-brown sugar in very small hats. He is with molasses and schleimigten Contaminated materials.
The poorest man eats papelón how to eat cheese in Europe, you hold it generally nutritious. fermented
with water, it is the * * Guarapo, the favorite drink of the People. For leaching of pipe use
is made of juice instead of lime, in the carbonate Kalis. Take preferably to the ashes of the Bucare
* * corallodendron of Erythrina.

The sugar cane is very late, probably until the end of the sixteenth century, by the West Indies
in the valleys of Aragua come.

It had known since ancient times in India, in China and throughout the islands of the Pacific,
in Khorasan in Persia and it was already built in the fifth century AD to obtain solid sugar. The
Arabs brought the pipe, which is for the inhabitants of hot and temperate countries of such
great value, to the shores of the Mediterranean. In 1306 it was not built in Sicily, but on
Cyprus, Rhodes, and in the Morea was already widespread, it was a hundred years it is a valuable
Possession of Calabria, Sicily and the Spanish coasts. From Sicily, the transplanted Infant Henriquez
was the cane to Madera in Madera it to the Canaries, where it is quite unknown was, for the Juba talks
Ferula of which (quae expressa liquor fundunt potui jucundum) are euphorbia, Tabayba dulce,
and no sugar cane, as has been recently claimed. Not long before there were ten sugar mills (ingenios
de azucar on the big Canaria to Palma and Tenerife between Adex, Icod and Garachico. It took
blacks for the construction, and their descendants still live in the caves of Tiraxana on the
big Canaria. Since the cane to the West Indies been transplanted, and since the new world the
Happy Isles given to maize, has the cultivation of the grass species in Tenerife and the Canary large
displaces Zuckerbau. Now this is only driven to Palma at Argual and Taxacorte and offers very little
in 1000 Centner Sugar a year. The Canary tube Aiguilon brought to St. Domingo, has been there
since 1517 or the six, built seven years of the reign of Hieronymites monks. From the beginning,
blacks were used, and already in 1519 put it, just as today, the government before, "the West Indies
would be lost and would have to remain lying desert, if you do not all years of the slave coast
of Guinea would bring over. "

For several years, the growing and the production of sugar in Terra Firma significantly is improved,
and as prohibited by law in Jamaica, the refining, we believe the
View of refined sugar in the English colonies in the way of smuggling
to count.

But consumption in the provinces of Venezuela papelón and raw sugar to Chocolate and confectionery
(dulces) is so great that the export until now not in Was considered. The finest sugar plantations
in the valleys of Aragua and Tuy, in Pao de Zaret, between Victoria and San Sebastiano, at
Guatire, Guarenas and Caurimare. As First came the cane from the Canaries in the new world, are
still mostly Canarians or * * Islengos before the big plantations and type in the cultivation
and refining in the manual. This intimate relations with the Canary Islands and its people has
to introduce the camels in the provinces of Venezuela given occasion. The Marques del Toro gave
her three Lancerota come from. Transport costs were very significant because the animals on the
purchase drivers occupy much space and they require a lot of sweet water, since the long passage,
they strong attacks. A camel, for you pay only thirty piastres had, after the arrival on the
coast of Caracas cost eight to nine hundred dollars. We saw these animals in Mocundo, had already
thrown three in four of America. Two were from the bite of the Coral, a poisonous snake, which is on
the lake very often gone to ground. You need to now this Camels only to create the cane to the
mills. The male animal, the more than the female, who have 40-50 kilos. A wealthy landowner
in the province Barinas wanted, encouraged by the process of Marques del Toro, and to spend
15.000 piastres even 14-15 camels from the Canary Islands have come. Such enterprises are the
more praiseworthy because they can be beasts of burden to the wares through the sweltering plains
on Casanare, Apure and will operate at Calabozo, in the dry season the African Deserts same.
I have elsewhere noted (60) as would be highly desirable that the conquerors even at the beginning
of the sixteenth century, such as cattle, horses and mules, including camels were transplanted
to America. Wherever in uninhabited countries is very large distances to be covered are, where
channels can not create, because they required too many sluices (As on the Isthmus of Panama, on
the plateau of Mexico, in the deserts between the Kingdom of Quito and Peru, and between Peru and Chili),
were camels for trade in the interior of the highest importance. One has to wonder the more that
the government does not encouraged immediately after the conquest, the introduction of the
animal has, since long after the Submission of Grenada, the camel, the favorite animal of the
Moors in southern Spain are very often was. A Biscay, Juan de Reinaga had its costs, some camels
to Peru brought. Father Acosta saw towards the end of the sixteenth century at the foot of
the Andes; but because they were poorly maintained, it propagates poorly and died soon thereafter.
In these times of oppression and misery that you as the days of Spanish glory describes the vermietheten
encomenderos travelers Indians as beasts of burden. They drove hundreds together to commodities
over the Cordilleras to tow, or to the army on their accompany conquest and plunder. The natives
underwent this service so patient, because, when almost total lack of domestic animals, for
a long time from their own chiefs, though not as inhuman, were encouraged. By Juan de Reinaga
attempted introduction of camels brought encomenderos that are not legally But in practice,
the landlord of the Indian villages were immense in turmoil. It is not surprising that the Court
was hearing the complaints of the Lord, but by this measure of control America was deprived of
a remedy that is more than anything on the market at home and the Could facilitate exchange of
commodities. Now that since Charles III. Government under the Indian a milder regiments are,
and all branches of the local industrious freer can develop, the introduction of camels in the
Great and the Government itself be tried. Would a few hundred of these useful animals on the
immense area of America in hot, dry areas settled, so would the favorable influence on the general
welfare in a few years to make noticeable.
 Members of the local bodies
who had gone to their homes at the week's end came back just as much inclined to settle as before.

I met Redmond on the night of Monday, January 14th. He had seen no one in these ten days. He
told me that he was still uncertain what would happen, but asked me to get one of the leading
County Councillors to second his motion. Next morning I came in half an hour before the meeting
to find the man I wanted. When I met him he was full of excitement, and said, "Something has
gone wrong; the men are all saying they must vote against Redmond." Then it was evident that
propaganda had been busy to some purpose.

When Redmond came in to his place, I said, "It's all right. Martin McDonogh will second your
motion." He answered with a characteristic brusqueness, "He needn't trouble. I'm not going
to move it; Devlin and the Bishops are voting against me."

He rose immediately the Chairman was in his place.

"The amendment which I have on the paper," he said, "embodies the deliberate advice I give
to the Convention.

"I consulted no one--and could not do so, being ill. It stands on record on my sole responsibility. In this box is included, what comforts
him! "-

Prosper Balthasar gave it to the small, bare polished turtles Doescher, the he pocketed as
much as the small eye-glass, which he first to disenchantment of
cinnabar Prosper obtained.

Prosper Alpanus swept away now through the bushes by the voices of the forest stronger and
graceful sounded.

Balthasar went back to high-Jakob Home, all pleasure, all delight of the sweetest Hope in my heart.

In
the earliest dawn, when roads and streets are still lonely, crept
Balthasar into it to Kerepes and ran immediately to his friend Fabian.

When he passed the Stubentuere knocked, called out a sick dull voice: "Come in!" -

Bleach - disfigured, hopeless in the face of pain, Fabian was lying on the bed. "For heaven sake,
"said Balthasar," for heaven's sake - friend! Speak! - What has happened to you?

"Ah, friend," Fabian said in a broken voice, as he laboriously taught in the height, "With me it's
over, purely out. The damned Hexenspuk that, I know it, the vengeful Prosper Alpanus about me
brought me come crashing to destruction "! -

"How is that possible?" asked Balthasar, "sorcery, Hexenspuk, you believed otherwise at the like
not. "" Ah, "said Fabian continued in a tearful voice," oh, I think now all of Wizards and witches
and goblins and water spirits, to the rat king and the mandrake root
- All that you want.

If that thing so the neck does like me, who are good! - You remember the infernal scandal with my
coat when we Prosper Alpanus came! - Yes! Were it only stayed there! - You look a little into
my room, my dear Balthasar! -

Balthasar did it and saw on all the walls round about a myriad of dress coats, Ueberroecken, Kurtken
of all possible cut in all kinds of colors. "What," he cried, "will you create a Kleiderkram,
Fabian? "

"Scorn not," said Fabian, "mock not, dear friend. All these clothes I left make the most famous
tailors, always hoping for once the unholy damnation to avoid resting on my skirts, but in vain.
And I the most beautiful coat, which I might like a glove to the body, wearing only a few minutes, slip
the sleeve of me shoulders up, and the Scholars Esse me long to yawing six yards. In desperation
I let those spencer with a world of make long Pierrotsaermeln 'slips only Sleeves 'thought,'
I, 'you only expands, chocolate chimney, so everything comes into the same': but! - All the
same as it was with all the other skirts in minutes! All art and power of the most powerful Schneider
taught nothing against the accursed magic! I mocked, ridiculed was where I only look left, goes
without saying, but soon led my involuntary perseverance, time and again to appear in such a devil
of rock, all other judgments. The least was that the women tell me boundless vanity and vulgar
, Because I want to meet me of all custom quite bare arms, probably for nice very entertaining to
see would be. The theologians but screamed at me soon for a sectarian out, arguing, just if
I have to pay to the sect or the Aermelianer Schoessianer were but agreed that both sects call extremely
dangerous, as both complete freedom of the will as couched and dared to think what they wanted. Diploma
sufferers were me for a contemptible rabble rousers. They claimed that I wanted by my long skirt
Scholars Esse Arouse dissatisfaction among the people and make it rebellious against the government
belong, at all is a secret bond, whose character is a short sleeve. For a long time to perform
them here and there traces of the short sleeves, to fear the same as the Jesuits, and even more,
as they tried to introduce everywhere the harmful poetry every state, and the Infallibility
of the princes doubted. Short! - The thing was more serious and more serious, to me quoted the
rector left. I saw my first accident, when I put on a coat, appeared So in the vest. Angry
about it was the man he thought I wanted to mock him, and drove off on me that I should be submitted
within eight days in a well for respectable Rock appear to him, otherwise
it without mercy all the play-offs would say about me. - Today is
the deadline to the end! - Oh Poor me! - O cursed Alpanus Prosper!

"-

"Stop," cried Balthasar, "a halt, my friend Fabian narrower, not dear to my dear uncle, who gave
me an estate. Also with you, he says it's not even evil so However, he, I must confess, his curiosity,
which test you meet him punished too hard added. - But I get help!
- Doescher he sends you this, which all end your suffering should.

"

Thus Balthasar drew the little turtles Doescher, which he obtained from Prosper Alpanus, from
his pocket and handed it to the desolate Fabian.

"What," said the latter, "what do I want to help because the stupid Quark? How can a small Turtle
Doescher influence the design of my skirts?

"" I do not know " Balthasar said, "but my dear uncle can not and will not deceive me, I have
the fullest confidence in him, so just open the box, rather Fabian, we want to see what is mentioned.
"

Fabian did - and out of the can is a wonderfully made black tails
flowed from the finest Cloth produced.

Both Fabian and Balthasar, could be the loud exclamation of astonishment highest not help.

"Ha, I understand you," Balthasar cried enthusiastically, "ha, I understand
you, my Prosper, my Above uncle!

This skirt will fit, will solve all the magic. "-

Fabian put the coat easily, and dreamed of what Balthasar, arrived really. "The wonderful Dress
the Fabian sat, as he had never sat him one, and slide the sleeve on extension Scholars of the Fair was
not the question.

Quite beside himself with joy, Fabian decided now once in his new well-fitting skirt Rector added
to run and to get the same thing.

Balthasar now told his friend Fabian in detail, how things go with
Prosper Alpanus, and how this gave him the means of leverage, the
incurable evils of misshapen Daeumling to make an end.

Fabian, who was a very different, because it all skepticism completely abandoned, praised Prosper
high generosity beyond measure and offered in cinnabar to provide
a helping hand disenchantment.

The moment Balthasar saw out the window his friend, the Referendarius Pulcher, who sneak across
truebsinnig around the corner wanted. Fabian von Balthasar's behest to put his head out the window
and waved and called out Referendarius to, but he might just come up the same.

Pulcher and entered, he called the same: "What did you do for a beautiful gown, my dear Fabian!
"He said, however, Balthasar will explain everything to him, and
ran for president.

Now when Balthasar tells in detail all the Referendarius what happened, said this. "Especially
at the time it is now that the hideous monster is made dead. Know that today he celebrates his
solemn engagement to Candida, that the vain Mosch Terpin a big party there, which he himself
invited the princes. Especially for this festival we want penetrate into the professor's house
and attacked the boy. At the hall's lights will not lacking the instantaneous burning of the hostile
hair. "

Yet many had spoken to friends and arranged to meet one another, as occurred with Fabian joy shiny
face.

"The power," he said, "the power of rock, which flowed from the box turtle, has proved its worth
glorious. As soon as I entered at the Rector, he smiled contentedly. 'Ha' talking he at me, 'ha!
- I can see, my dear Fabian, that they've come back from your strange aberration! - Well! Feuerkoepfe
how you can be easily carried away to extremes! - For religious enthusiasm I have never held
your start - more misunderstood Patriotism - Hang to extraordinary, based on the example of the
heroes of antiquity. - Yes, I will apply such a beautiful, well-fitting skirt! - Alternative
to the state, health the world if those who have generous Juengling skirts, with matching
sleeves and such Scholars food. Stay true to Fabian, stay true to such virtue, such a brave sense it
sprang Heldengroesse true!

" - The principal hugged by his bright tears came to my eyes. Even I do not know how I came to the
little box turtles, out of the rock arose, and which I had put into his pocket to pull out.
'Please! " said the rector, as he pointed his thumb and index finger together. Without knowing
whether well-tobacco therein mentioned, I worked on the can. The rector reach in and grab, snuff,
took my Hand presses, they are strong, tears running down his cheeks, he said tiefgeruehrt:
'Men Youth! - A nice pinch! - All is forgiven and forgotten, dine with me today noon! " - You
see friends, all my suffering is over, and we manage today, as it otherwise not be expected, the disenchantment
of cinnabar, so you too are happy now! " -

In the lighted room with a hundred candles stood in the little vermilion scarlet embroidered
Dress, the large order of gruengefleckten Tigers looked around a bit with twenty buttons, sword at
the page, plumed hat under his arm. Next to him, the lovely bride adorned Candida, in all Grace
and radiant youth. Cinnabar had taken her hand, which he pressed to his mouth sometimes while
illegally grinned and smiled.

And each time, then flew over a higher red Candida's cheeks, and she looked at the little ones
with the most intimate expression of love. This was as well be considered quite grayish, and
only the blindness in the cinnabar charm all said, was responsible for the fact that you do not
angry about Candida's hopeless entanglement, the small Witch guy grabbed and threw into the fire.
Around the pair in a circle at a respectful distance the company had collected. Only Fuerst barsanuphe
stood by Candida and struggled to throw around meaningful gracious
looks, however, no one slept on much.

Everything had only eye for the bridal couple and go to vermilion lips, now and then some unintelligible
words purred, where each time a faint Oh! the highest admiration, which the company was uttered.

It
was to the effect that the engagement rings should be replaced. Mosch Terpin entered the Circle
with a salver, on which sparkled the rings. He cleared his throat - cinnabar stood on tiptoe
as high as possible, he almost gave the bride at the elbow. - Everything
was in the most intense expectation - there can suddenly hear strange
voices the door of the room jumps up, Balthasar penetrates, with his
Pulcher - Fabian! - Interrupt through the circle - "What is it, what
do the foreigners?" calls mixed up. -

Fuerst barsanuphe horrified
screams: "rebellion - rebellion - Awake!" and jumps behind the fireplace
screen. - Mosch Terpin recognizes the Balthasar, who advanced close
to the vermilion, and cries: "Lord Studiosus! - Are you mad - you
are mad? - As you may want to here penetrate the engagement! - People
- Society - servant, the ruffian throw the door out!

"-

But without in the least to return to anything, has been Prosper Balthasar lorgnette pulled and directed
by the same view of the solid cinnabar head. As the electrical Beam taken from cinnabar joins a
shrill cry of cats that the whole room echoed. Candida faints into a chair, dusted the tightly
closed circle of the Company apart. - Clear from Balthazar's eyes is the feuerfarbglaenzende
hair streak, he spring on cinnabar - sums him, kicking his little
legs and struggles with himself and scratching and bites.

"All wrapped up - tackled!" Balthasar calls, as Fabian and Pulcher take the little that he not
to stir and move can, and Balthasar snugly and gently, the red Hair, torn from her head down
with a jerk jumps to the fireplace, she threw into the fire, they rattle on, it takes a stunning
blow, as all awake from the dream. - There is the small tin, which is laboriously gathered up
from the earth, and scolds and schmaelt and orders, the cheeky one should Ruhestoerer that on
the sacred person of the first Minister in the state out of stock, immediately pack up and throw
into the deepest prison! But a asks the other: "Where I get all of a sudden the little guy somersaults
- what will? the little monster "- and how the Daeumling rages ever on and with the presser foot
to the floor stamps and always calls in between, "I am the Minister of cinnabar - I am the
Minister cinnabar - Gruengefleckte the Tiger with twenty buttons "because everything breaks into a
great laughter from. They surrounded the boy, the men pick it up and submit to him as a catch
ball; an order button after another he jumps from his body - he loses his hat - the sword, the
Shoes. - Fuerst barsanuphe comes out from behind the fireplace screen and enters into the midst
of the Tumult. As the boy screams, "Fuerst barsanuphe - Grace - save your Minister - Your
favorite! - Help there - Help there - the state is in danger - the gruengefleckte Tiger - Hurt
- hurt "- The prince takes a grim view of the Little and then proceeds rapidly Forward to the
door. Mosch Terpin gets in the way he holds, pulls him into the Area and speaks with angry flashing
eyes: "You presume to your princes, your father of his country to want to play for a stupid comedy?
- If you invite me to your daughter's engagement with my worthy Minister cinnabar, and instead of my
minister I find this a disgusting Monster that you put in shiny clothes? - Lord, you know that this is a treasonable
Fun is that I would strictly punish, if you were not a very silly person who belongs in the madhouse.
- I horrified by the Office as Director General of natural Affairs me and everything else students will
not stand in my basement! - Adieu "!

Then he stormed.

But Mosch Terpin crashed los trembling with anger at the boy, grabbed him in the long shaggy hair
and ran with him down to the window: "Down with you," he shouted,
"down with you, disgraceful unholy monstrosity that made me so shamefully
deceived me about everything Happiness of life has brought "

He wanted the kids hinabstuerzen through the open window, but the overseer of the zoological Cabinet,
which also jumped present, added with lightning speed, summed up the kids and snatched Mosch Terpin
his fists. "Stop," said the warden, "you think, Professor, Do not lay hands on the noblest property.
It's not a monster, it is the Mycetes Beelzebub, Beelzebub Simia, who escaped from the Museo
"" Simia Beelzebub - Simia Beelzebub ". Resounded it from all sides in laughter. But no sooner
had the guard of local on the arm and made him quite often when he
exclaimed angrily: "What I see - that! is not so Simia Beelzebub,
this is a vile ugly roots man!

Ugh! - Pooh "-

And with that he threw the little ones in the middle of the room.

In the loud Hohngelaechter society the boy ran away squealing and growling down the stairs by the door
- away, away to his house without him noticed one of his servants.

Meanwhile, that all this came to pass in the hall to Balthasar had
removed in the Cabinet, where, as he perceived, carried forward the
impotent Candida.

He threw himself at her feet, pressed her hands to his lips, called her with the sweetest
name. She awoke at last with a deep sigh, and when she saw the Balthasar, as they cried in delight:

"Are
you finally - finally here, my dear Balthasar Oh, I'm almost gone!
with longing and pain of love! - And I always sounded the notes of
the nightingale, of which touched, the purple rose springs from the
heart's blood!

"-

Now they told everything, forgetting everything around him, like a bad dream abominable they
were involved, as it happened, much like a ugly monster down to her heart, they have to give
her love, because they otherwise could. The monster had to adjusted knew he looked like Balthazar,
and if they fairly lively on Balthasar thought they had indeed known
that the fiend not Balthasar, but then again it is their incomprehensible
way been when they have to love the monster, just to Balthazar's sake.

Balthasar you clear up so much as it could happen without their already excited sense to confuse
completely. Then followed, as happened to no other people in love usually, a thousand insurance,
a thousand vows of eternal love and fidelity.

And compassed and they expressed themselves with the fervor of the most intimate tenderness
of the breast and were entirely surrounded by all the joy, delight
of all of the highest heaven.

Mosch Terpin entered, haenderingend and lamenting with him came Pulcher and Fabian, the constantly,
but in vain comforted her.

"No," said Mosch Terpin, "no, I'm a totally beaten man - no more General the natural thing in
the state. - No more studying in the princely cellars - the Favor
of princes - I thought to be the knight gruengefleckten Tigers, at
least with five buttons. - All in! - What is only seconds.

Excellency the worthy Minister cinnabar to say when he hears that I have a vile monster, the
cauda prehensili Simia Beelzebub, or what else I know, for him to be! - O God, and his hatred
is weighing on me! - Alikante! - Alikante! -

"But, my dear Professor," comforted the friends - "my dear General, you remember but only that there
is no Minister is cinnabar more! - You have absolutely not out of print, the formless tot has by
virtue of the magic gift to him by the fairy Rosabelverde receive,
as well deceived, as all of us "! -

Now, Balthasar told to go as
everything from the beginning.

The professor listened and listened, Balthasar ended up, he cried: "Wake I - dreaming! I - Witch -
Wizard - fairy - magic Mirrors - sympathy - should I believe in this nonsense "-

"Oh dear sir," interrupted Fabian, "They would have only worn a skirt for a while with short sleeves
and long train, like me, you would have to believe everything that It would be a pleasure! "-

"Yes,"
said Mosch Terpin, "yes, it's all so - yes - Last Day of monster has deceived me - I am no
longer on their feet - I float to the ceiling-Prosper Alpanus me
away ab - I ride on a summer bird - I let the hair of Fee Rosabelverde
- From the Stiftsfraeulein Rose Schoen, Minister and I will! - Koenig
- Kaiser!

"-

And with that he jumped around the room and screamed and juchzte that for all his intelligence were
afraid, until he sank into a chair quite exhausted. As he approached, and Candida Balthasar.
They spoke of how they are so intimate, so about all loved how they did not could live without
each other, and that was very sad to hear why Mosch Terpin also really
cried.

"Everything," he said sobbing, "all you want, kids! - You get married, loves you - hungry together,
because I give a penny of Candida with "-

What concerned the starving, Balthasar said, smiling, he hoped the professor tomorrow to convince
that it probably can never be said, as his uncle Prosper Alpanus adequately provided for him.

"The
Sun," said Matt, the professor, "do, my dear son, if you can, and
indeed tomorrow, for I shall not fall into madness, I will not break
the head, I have to go immediately to bed!

"-

He did this really on the spot.

The car of the Minister before the cinnabar had almost all night in
vain Mosch Terpin Kept home. Once over the other was assured the Jaeger,
Se. Excellence would have to have long since left the company, but
said the other hand, it was quite impossible, da Se. Excellence but
probably would not have run in the rain storm walking home.

We have ourselves in part to thank for it. We might in January have taken Redmond's advice,
and Lord Midleton's declared view that legislation would follow might have proved correct.
Yet, what use are might-have-beens? History is concerned with what happened, and our work in
the Convention dragged itself on till the great German offensive had been launched and the
Allied line pushed back to the very gates of Paris, and Government was at its wits' end for
men. You could, dear reader, but, in spite of your excellent Ingenuity in
false assumptions or even get to the big disadvantage of history many Sheets on strike, just like
to know more about the mystical Stiftsfraeulein; better it is, therefore, well, I'll tell
you right all I own from the appreciation of Dame white.

Miss von Schoen Rose was of great figure, noble and majestic stature somewhat proud, commanding nature.
Your face, you had it right to call beautiful completed, made, especially where as usual in
rigid Ernst hinschaute himself, a strange, almost eerie Impression of what a very special attribute
EXCELLENT strange course between the eyebrows, the right of one does not quite know whether a Stiftsfraeulein
really like on the who foreheads in. It was also often, especially at the time of roses beautiful
cheerful Weather, so much grace and charm in her eyes that everyone in sweet irresistible Magic
felt self-conscious. When I saw the lady for the first and last time to see the pleasure had
they had the prestige to a woman in the highest, most perfect flower of their years at the highest
point of the turning point, and I thought that I fated very lucky, the lady just yet to see on
this peak and to a certain extent, on their wonderful beauty to scare, which can then very soon
would no longer carry. I was in the Error. The oldest people in the village, assured that they had known
the young lady so long as they thought, and that the lady had never been different, not older,
not younger not ugly, not pretty as now. Time seemed not so to have power over them, and even this
could happen many a surprise. But still many others joined them, what everyone, he thought it quite
seriously, as much surprised, and at last from the astonishment into which he caught coming
out, do not have to. For now revealed itself quite clearly in the relationship of the lady with
the flowers, whose names they bore. For not only that no man on earth such a wonderful thousand-
Rosen was able to draw, as they so also sprouted from the worst droughts Dorn, they put into the
ground, those flowers in the highest abundance and splendor out. Then there was it is certain
that on solitary walks in the woods loud conversations led to wonderful Voices that seemed out of the
trees, in the bushes, from the sources and streams to sound. Yes, a young man she had overheard
Jaeger, as she was once in the middle in the thick of woody and strange birds with colorful
shiny feathers that are not in the land of fluttering home, they and caressed and tell funny singing
and chirping in her all sorts of things Merry seemed what she was laughing and being happy.
 And
when finally extinguished all the lights and the doors were locked, had to Jaeger While continuing
with the empty wagons at the house of the minister but he woke once the valet and asked if come for heaven's
sake, and in what type of home minister. "Se. Excellency," the valet replied quietly to the
Jaeger's ear, "Se. Excellence yesterday arrived in late twilight, that's certainly - lie in bed and
sleep. - But! - Oh my good hunter! - How - how! - I will tell you everything - but Siegel on the
mouth - I am a lost man if Se. Excellence to know that I was on the dark hallway! - I come to my
service, for Se. Excellence, although of less Have stature, but extremely much wildness, ancient
centering is easy to know yourself not in anger, do not have yesterday a vile mouse, by His Excellency
bedroom jump to the venture, running with the bare sword drawn through and through. - Well! - Also
in the twilight I take up my mantle and I will very gently hinueberschleichen the Weinstuebchen
to a game of Tric-Trac, because schurrt and shuffled me something on the stairs meet and come
to me on the dark corridor between the legs and pointed to the SUGGESTS Ground and raises a shrill
cry of cats and then grunts as - oh, God - Jaeger! - Hold The mouth, noble man, or I'm gone!
- Come a little closer - and then grunts, to grunt as our gracious excellence cares if the cook
or frittered the Kaelberkeule he is otherwise in the state which is not right. "

The last word was spoken the valet to the police with closed doors in his ear. The Jaeger went
back, cut a questionable face and cried: "Is it possible!" -

"Yes,"
continued the valet, "it was undoubtedly our gracious Sir, what to
me the corridor through the legs went.

I heard clearly now, as the lady in the room heranrueckte the chairs and the door of a room after
another, opened it up arrived in his bedroom cabinet.

I dare it not to follow, but a few hours afterwards, I snuck to the door of the bedroom cabinet
and listened. Since snoring the love Excellence in all the way in which it maintains to happen
when the Large plants. - Jaeger! 'There are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamed
of in our wisdom, "that is heard I say once again on the stage a melancholy prince, who was
all black and before a very gray cardboard dressed man very much frightened. - Jaeger! - It is
yesterday at some done something amazing that drove the excellence of home. The Fuerst is
on the professor was, perhaps, he expressed this and that - some pretty Reformchen - And there
is now the minister about it right here, runs out of the engagement and begins to work on for
the good of the government. - I hear it right on snoring, yes Large, Decisive will happen!
- O Jaeger - perhaps we have all the short or long us to grow again the braids! - Yes, dear
friend, let us go down and a loyal Servants at the bedroom door to listen, whether Se. Excellence are
also quiet in bed and work out the inner thoughts. "

Both, the valet and Jaeger slipped down to the door and listened. Cinnabar purred and orgelte
and whistled through the most wonderful keys. Both servants stood in silent Reverence, and the
valet tiefgeruehrt said: "A great man is still our gracious Mr. Minister! "-

Early in the morning was the bottom of the home of the minister a huge noise. An old, pitifully
dressed in their Sunday best long since faded into the house had Bauerweib and urged the caretaker
in place, they immediately lead to their little son, too young Zach. The desk clerk she had meant
that Se. Excellency, Minister of cinnabar, Knight of the gruengefleckten
Tiger with twenty buttons, live in the house, and none of the servants
Small Zaches would mean or would be so called.

And the woman but had shouted across tolljubelnd, Minister of cinnabar with twenty buttons, this
is just her dear son, the small Zach. At the cry of the woman, to the thundering curses of
the porter was all out the whole house gathered together, and the noise was worse and worse. As the
valet came down to hunt the people apart, Se. Excellence so outrageous in the morning calm disturbed,
they just threw the woman, all were mad, out of the house.

On the stone steps of the opposite house was now out and the woman sobbed and lamented that the
people in there they do not gross her Herzenssoehnlein to the Klein wanted Zaches, the minister
can become. Many people gathered gradually around her, which she repeated over and over that the
Minister cinnabar no one else was when her son she was told in youth Zaches small, so people last
did not know whether they keep the woman for great or even should
have guessed that really what to the matter.

The woman did not turn his eyes away from cinnabar window. As they struck at once a light pool
on beat, her hands and cried aloud joyfully: "There he is - there is he, my Herzensmaennlein
- my little Koboldchen - Good morning, little Zach! - Good morning, Klein Zach "- all people
out kuckten, and when they saw the little tin, which in his embroidered scarlet dress, the ribbon
of the Tigers gruengefleckten slung over his shoulder, before the
window was that went down to the floor, so that his whole figure by
the see large clear windows, they laughed quite excessive and blustered
and shouted: "Small Zaches - Small Zaches Ha see, but the little baboon
dressed - the great monster - The Wurzelmaennlein - Klein Zach!

Klein Zach "- The porter, all the servants ran cinnabar out to behold to what the people for
so intemperate laugh and rejoice. But hardly they saw their masters, as they shouted far worse
than the people of the wildest laughter: "Little Zach - Klein Zach - root man - Daeumling - mandrake"
-

The minister seemed only now to perceive that the great spook other things on the street no
one is true, as he pulled himself to his window, looked with angry eyes flashing down, screamed,
raced, strange jumps made in anger - threatened Guard - Police - Stock home and fortress.

But the more the excellence raged in anger, the anger was uproar and laughter, they started
with stones - fruit - vegetables or what you just got on hand, after the unfortunate Minister
throw - he had into it! -

"God in heaven," cried the terrified valet, "from the windows of the gracious excellence kuckte
even out the little monster vile - What is it? - How is the little
fellow witches came into the room "- He ran up, but as before he found
the bedroom cabinet Minister closed.

He ventured to knock softly! - No answer! -

However, was the white sky, in what manner, a dull murmur arose among
the people, the little monster was ridiculous up there really small
Zaches that the proud name Cinnabar accepted and soared through all
sorts of disgraceful lies and deceit.

Always louder and louder rose the voices. "Down with the little beast - down - knock the small
Zaches the Minister jacket - lock him in the Kaeficht - let's see him for money at the fair! -
It bonded with tinsel and brings it to the children for a toy! - Up - up "- And that stormed the
people against the house.

The valet ranking the hands in despair. "Rebellion - do - tumult - Excellence You - save you
"- he cried;! But left no answer, only a low groan be heard.

The front door was smashed, the people banged up in wild laughter upstairs.

"Now it's true," said the valet, and ran with all his might against
the door of the cabinet, they jumped clanking and rattling off its
hinges. - No excellence - not to cinnabar Find! -

Excellence - Excellence
gracious - you do not hear because the rebellion - Excellence - Gracious
Excellence, where it has for the - God forgive me my sins, where you
deign to be because !

Are "

Sun cried the valet, in despair rennend through the rooms.

But no answer no sounds loud, but the mocking echo of the Marmorwaenden.

Vermilion appeared without a trace, disappeared soundlessly. - Outside, it was quieter, the valet heard
the deep sonorous voice of a woman who spoke to the people, and saw through the window, looking,
as the people left gradually, quietly murmuring to each other, the
house, dubious Look up throwing at the windows.

"The rebellion seems over," said the valet, "now is the gracious excellence
probably emerge from their hiding places.

"

He went back to bed cabinet, suspecting there, the Minister would probably still located at
the end.

He threw peering eyes round about, since he was aware, as from a beautiful
silver Henkelgefaess, which used to always close to stand next to
the toilet because it is the Minister as an expensive gift from the
princes was very valuable, very small thin legs hervorstarrten.

"God - God," cried the valet, horrified, "God - God - I'm not mistaken, shall belong to the
pins where His Excellency the Minister cinnabar, my gracious Lord!

" - He was ascended, he said, shaken by the fright of all the showers, by looking down: Excellence
- Excellence - to God, what do you do - what are you doing down there in the dark "

However, since cinnabar was quiet, the valet saw probably a danger in the excellence floated,
and that it was time to put aside all respect. He took the Cinnabar in the leg - pulled it out! -
Oh dead - dead was the little excellence! The valet broke into loud lamentations, the Jaeger,
the servants came running, you ran the Physician to the princes.

Meanwhile, dry the valet his poor unfortunate Mr. with clean towels, put him to bed, covered
it with silk cushions, so that only the small shriveled little face was visible.

Then went inside the Lady of Rose Schoen. She had only heaven knows how Nature, the people calmed
down. Now she walked over to the lifeless cinnabar, was followed by the old Lisa, the little
Zaches birth mother. - Cinnabar did indeed handsomer in death; than he ever looked in his
entire life.

The tiny little eyes were closed, the Naescher very white, the mouth, the gentle smile a little
warped, but above all the dark brown hair flowed in the most beautiful curls. About the main
dash out the Fraeulein the little ones, and at the moment shone forth a feeble glimmer of a
red stripe.

"Ha," cried the young lady by her eyes glittered with joy, "ha, Prosper Alpanus! - High Master,
you will keep his word! - Serving his fate and with him all the shame is "!

"Ah," said the old Henry, "you oh dear God, that's surely not my little
Zacher, so pretty has never looked.

Since I am now completely free to the city gone, and you have not advised me well, my dear
lady! "-

"Just do not grumble, old man," replied the lady, "you had only followed my advice properly, and you
were not before, when I was here, got into this house, everything would be available for You
better. - I repeat, the boy, who lies dead in bed there is certainly and truly Your son, young Zach!
"

"Well," the woman cried with shining eyes, "now if there really is my little Excellency Child,
so I erb I suppose all the beautiful things around here are around,
the whole House with all that is in there?

"

"No," said the lady, "that is now totally gone, you've got the right
moment failed to win money and property. - You is I have said right,
you is what it is Wealth is not fated.

"-

"So I may," continued the woman, by her tears in her eyes were, "I must not at least take my
poor little man in the apron and take home? - Our pastor has so many pretty stuffed birds and
eichkaetzchen that will I leave my stuff Zaches small, and I will put it on my cabinet, as He
is there in the red rock with the wide band and the big star on his
breast, to eternal Souvenirs! -

"That," the girl exclaimed almost
angrily, "this is a quite simple idea, the goes to not at all "! -

As
the woman began to sob, to complain to complain.

"What have I," she said, "now the fact that my small Zaches to high dignity, has come to great
wealth! - Had he remained with me, 'I only brought up in my poverty,
never waer' he would have in that damn thing like silver, he was still
alive, and I would have perhaps joy and blessings had from him.

I carried him around so in my wood bin, people would have felt pity and some nice little piece
of money thrown at me, but now "-

Much could be heard footsteps in the hall, the girl drove the old man, with instructions to
she should wait down at the door, she would trust her driving away in a sure means as all their
needs, all their misery can end suddenly.

Now Rosabelverde was again close up to the kids and spoke with the soft quivering Voice of deep pity:

"Poor
Zaches - step-child of nature - I had 'been kind to you - well' d
'it his folly, that I thought the outer, nice gift with which I blessed
you would, radiate into your mind and give a voice which would have
to tell you: 'You are not that for which you hold up, but still only
aspire to, emulate it to the, on the wings you lame, Unbefiederter
soar up!

" - But awoke no inner voice. Your vehicle dead spirit could not emporzurichten, you did not give
up in your stupidity, Rudeness, unruliness - Oh! - You were just
a little bit less, a little unrefined Ruepel left, you escaped the
ignominious death! - Prosper Alpanus has ensured that is now on death
again this holds, what you have to be in life by my power seemed.

Should I look up perhaps yet again as a small beetle - nimble mouse or nimble squirrel, so
it should be delighted! - Sleep well, young Zach! -

By Rosabelverde left the room, was the personal physician of princes in with the valet.

"To God," cried the doctor, when he saw the dead cinnabar and convinced that all Means to call
him into being, would remain in vain, "to God, as it is received, Mr. Kaemmerer? "

"Ah," he replied, "Oh, dear sir, rebellion or revolution, it is all one, as you call it raged,
and was busy outside in the vestibule all terribly. Se. Your Excellency, dear worried for their
lives would certainly hineinfluechten in the toilet slipped out and "-

"So," the doctor said solemnly, and moves, "he is to die for fear of even dead!"

And the door opened, and crashed into Fuerst barsanuphe with faded
face, behind him her seven paler Chamberlain.

"Is it true, is it true?" cried the prince, but as soon as he caught sight of the little corpse,
He bounced back and said, his eyes to heaven, with the expression
of the deepest Pain: "O cinnabar" - And the seven Chamberlain called
for the princes, "Oh tin!" and took, as did the Prince, the handkerchiefs
from his pocket and held it in front the eyes.


General Elections--
  1906, 43
  1910 (Jan.), 43-44
  1910 (Dec.), 49
  1918, 231
George V, King, 121
George, D. Lloyd,
  non-Irish preoccupations of, 41-42;
  Conciliation mission after the Rebellion, 232;
  agreement with the Irish, 234;
  agreement thrown over, 239;
  Redmond's hopes from, as Premier, 244-245;
  on Irish distrust, 246;
  supports the "two nations" theory, 255;
  the Convention, 260;
  letter to Plunkett, 324;
  conference with Convention representatives, 325;
  proposals to the Convention, 326 ff.;
  quoted on Ulster, 73
Gladstone, W.E., 11, 17, 42, 130, 317;
  breach with Parnell, 18-19;
  retirement, 23
Gladstone, W.G.C., 66
Gough, Gen., quoted, 105 ff. In the llanos, the vast plains of Calabozo, San Carlos, Guanare and Barquesimeto, count
only 4000-5000, which are scattered on farms and working on the hat of the cattle. The number
of those released is very significant, because the Spanish legislation and the Manners make
the release feed. The Lord allowed the slaves of him three hundred dollars offers not deny the
freedom of the slave would also because of the particular skill in Craft, which he drives cost
twice as much. The cases that someone in the last will more or less slaves to freedom gives
are more common in the province of Venezuela somewhere. Just before we went to the fertile
valleys of Aragua and the lake of Valencia, a lady had given up in the large village of La Victoria
on the death-bed her children, her Slaves, thirty in number release. With pleasure I speak
of actions that the Character of people who Bonpland and shown me so much affection and good
will, in such beautiful light show.

According to the Negroes in the colonies, it is of particular concern, the number of white
Creoles, I 'Hispanic' (22) call, and to know the native-born whites in Europe. It keeps difficult
to obtain over such a ticklish point exact information. As in the old In the new world is counting
the people an abomination because it says, that it was on this Increase the charges apart.
On the other hand, love the administrators, which the mother country in the colonies sent statistical
recordings any more than the people, for the consideration a suspicious political wisdom. These
exceptions are laboriously produced heavy the to deprive the colonists of curiosity. If by
the Minister in Madrid right tag true good of the country and had from time to time, accurate
reports about the increasing prosperity the colonies demanded that local authorities have these good
intentions are rarely supported. Only at the express command of the Spanish Court were the editors
the "Peruvian Mercury" leave the noble folk wirth scientific notes This fact sheet is communicated.
In Mexico, not in Madrid, I have the Viceroy Count Nevillagigedo listen to blame, because he
very kundgethan New Spain, that of the capital of a country almost six million inhabitants in 1700 only
2300 Europeans, however, over 50,000 Hispanic-Americans counted.
 We saw a water pipe that extends from the mountains' her to unrecognizable, tangled
ruins pulled.

Then follows the crossing of the Garigliano river. Then you walk through rather fruitful Areas on
a mountain 'going on. Nothing remarkable. Finally, the first volcanic Aschenhuegel. This is where a large,
beautiful area of ​​mountains and due to issues over which last snow summit excellent. At the
height sew a long, probably falling into the eyes of the city. In the valley is St. Agatha, a handsome
inn, where a brisk fire in a fireplace, as the Cabinet applied is burned. However, our room
is cold, no windows, only stores, and I rush to close.

Naples, 25 February 1787

Finally arrived here happy and with good omens.

From the day's only so much: St. Agatha, we left at sunrise, the wind was blowing behind us,
North East and this continued throughout the day. Only that afternoon he was lord of the clouds,
we were suffering from cold.

Our road and over again by volcanic hills, where I only a few limestone believed to notice.
At last we reached the plains of Capua, Capua itself soon after, where we had lunch. Afternoon
did a nice, flat area in front of us. The road goes wide by between green fields of wheat, the
wheat is like a carpet and probably high margin.

Poplars are planted in rows in the fields, and highly branched out
hinangezogen wine.

So it goes in to Naples. A clear, wonderfully loose soil and worked well. The Vinyard of unusual
strength and height, the vines were networks of poplar to poplar floating.
Vesuvius. Drawing by Goethe

Vesuvius us was always to the left side,
by force steaming and I was quiet for me pleased that I finally saw
the strange object with his eyes. The sky was always clarify and finally
the sun was quite hot in our close rolling home. All contours belong my order
but after our return from a remote control for it springs from, so He leads a number to be
selected objects up to a certain sum for certain me off, because for however at his dexterity
with the importance of conquerable Prospects and otherwise probably the more is revealed. This device
makes me happy, and now I can only give a short account of our trip.

On the two-sitting and light wagon, alternately, the leading rein, a good-natured rough boys
behind as well, we rolled through the beautiful country, with which Kniep painterly eye welcomed.
Now we reached the canyon, the one on the smoothest Roadway by running, to the delicious wood -
fly past and rocks. As could since last Kniep not refrain, in the area of ​​Alla Cava a magnificent
mountain, which is sharp in front of us in the sky became clear, not so much the pages as well
as the Foot height of the clean and distinctive in outline to attach to paper. We were delighted
both of us off than to the cost of our connection.

A similar outline was taken at night from the windows of Salerno, which I of all description about lifting
is a very unique sweet and fertile region. Who would not be inclined been studying in this place,
the best time of blooming high school? The erroneous
Opinion, as if not All the subjugated indigenous nomadic hunting peoples, is in Europe is fairly
widespread. In Terra Firma agriculture was long before the arrival of Europeans; He is still between
the Orinoco and the Amazon in the clearings of forests, where a missionary has never set foot.
This one, however, owes the government of the missions, that the native gets attachment to land, get
used to permanent residence and learns to love a quieter, more peaceful life. But progress in
this respect is slow, often imperceptible, because the Indians completely cut off from all intercourse,
and to do is completely false ideas about the current state of the nations in South America,
if one part Christian * * * subject * and * civilized * * * other pagan, * Wild * and * independent
* considers equivalent. The Indian is often subjected to so little a Christian as the independent
idolaters, both are completely the momentary need were utilized, and both shows are equally perfect
indifference against Christian ideas and the secret slope, nature and her divine powers to .
Venerate Such a service is part of the childhood of nations, he knows no Idols, and no sacred
places other than caves, gorges and forests.

If the independent Indians north of the Orinoco and Apure, ie, from
the snowy mountains of Merida allowed to Cape Paria, are for a century
almost disappeared, so we do not conclude that there is now natives
in these countries is less than the Time of the bishop of Chiapa,
Bartholomew Las Casas.

In my book on Mexico, I , Dargethan how wrong you when the extermination of the Indians, or even
a decrease number of people in the Spanish colonies as a general fact hinstellt. The copper-colored
Race is on both continents of America have more than six million strong, and although numerous
Tribes and languages ​​are extinct or have merged, there can be but no Doubt that within the
tropics, in the part of the new world in which the first culture since Christopher Columbus
is penetrated, the number of natives of growth. Caraïbische two villages in the missions of Piritu or
at Carony include more families than four or five nations on the Orinoco. The social status of the
remaining independent Caribs at the sources of Esquibo do and south of the mountains of Pacaraimo
sufficiently is, however much of this beautiful breed of people, the population of the missions,
the mass the independent and allied Caribs exceed.
 These bees nest in the ground. They rarely fly out, and after their
languid movements could not believe it, be they on the mountain rigid with cold. We call them
in this country Angelitos, angels, because they rarely sting. Despite the assertion more passengers,
it is not true that this new continent to the peculiar bee have no offensive weapons. Your
spine is weaker and they need the same rare. As long as one is of the harmlessness of the Angelitos
not fully convinced, we can not avoid some anxiety. I confess that I often during astronomical
observations almost the instruments would have dropped if I felt that my full face and hands this hairy
bees were sitting. Our guides assured they will only survive to defend if they are stimuli by
touching the feet. I was not hung up, the test on me to make yourself.

The air temperature on the Silla varied between 11 and 14 degrees,
according as the air is still or the wind was blowing.

It is obviously very hard on a mountain top, the temperature determine, according to one of the
barometric height is calculated. The wind was blowing from the east, and this seems to prove
that the sea breeze and the trade winds in this latitude of length 1500 toises . Reach up
Leopold von Buch has been observed that on the Peak of Tenerife, close to the northern boundary
of the trade winds in 1900 toises above sea level, usually a headwind (Vent de remou) prevails,
the west wind. The Paris Academy of Sciences was the physicist, which accompanied the ill-fated
La Peyrouse invited to sea in the tropics means small balloons to see how far up the range Passat.
Such investigations are very difficult if the observer remains at the surface. The small balloons
usually not as high as the Silla, and the light clouds which are sometimes in 3000-4000 toises Height
shows, such as the so-called * * sheep to stand still or back away slowly, that determine its direction
can not be.

During the brief time when the sky was clear at the zenith, I found
the blue of the air by a Much darker than on the coast.

It was equal to 26 °, 5 of Saussure'schen cyanometer. In Caracas was the same instrument in
bright, dry weather usually only 18 degrees. Probably in the months of July and August, the
difference in this regard between the coast and the summit of the Silla much more important. But
under all meteorological phenomena in the hour that we spent on the mountain, Bonpland and surprised
me the most, was the apparent dryness of the air, with the development of the fog still be increasing
appeared. When I took the (Deluc'schen) Fischbeinhygrometer out of the box in order to experiment
so that, He was 52 degrees (87 degrees to Saussure). The sky was bright, but with significant
haze strip Outlined subjected from time to time gone by between us on the ground. The Deluc'sche Hygrometer
went to 49 degrees (85 degrees to Saussure) back. Half an hour later, wrapped a thick cloud us
and we could not see the next items more and saw with surprise, that the instrument continuously
received by the dry-point, to 47 degrees (84 ° Saussure). The air temperature it was 12-13 degrees.
Although the Fischbeinhygrometer the saturation point in the air does not at 100 degrees,
but at 84 °, 5 (99 ° S), it seemed to me but this influence of a cloud conspicuously on the course of
the instrument in the highest degree. The fog lasted long enough that the baleen strips by
attraction of water particles would have to prolong. Our Clothes were not wet. A similar observation
in insured experienced traveler me recently that he had the Montagne Pelee in Martinique on a
cloud similar to the hair hygrometer see act. The physicist has the duty to report to the phenomena,
such as the nature it offers, especially if he has not missed anything, to avoid errors in
observation. Saussure saw during a violent rainstorm, and hygrometer are not wet, was the same (almost
remain as stand on the Silla in the cloud) to 84 °, 7 (48 °, 6 Deluc), but we can understand more
easily, that the air between the rain drops are not fully saturated than that of water vapor, Hygroscopic
of the body directly affected, the same is not drifting to the saturation point.
 

Candida was everyone had to admit, a bildhuebsches girl, with right into my heart bright eyes and
rosy lips slightly raised. Whether its the way, nice hair, they aufzunesteln in strange lichens
even fantastic knew more blonde or more brown call, I forgot, but I remember very well the strange
property that they were getting darker and darker, the longer you looked at them. By a slim tall
figure, slight movement, was the girl, especially in a cheerful environment that grace, the grace
itself, and it overlooked with so much physical pleasure very much, that hand and foot may
be smaller and more delicate can be built would have.
 

The road from Guayra in the valley of Caracas is far better than the Honda of Santa Fe after
and from Guayaquil to Quito, and he is even talking better than the old road from the port
of Vera Cruz on the south slope of the mountains of New Spain leads
to Perote. Finally,
they sow the wheat, then they pile on Sotteln narrow, resulting in between deep Furrows, all directed
so that the rain water has to run. The fruit grows on now the Sotteln in the height, in the
furrows they go back and forth when weeding.