It was Major Keith who had borne the tidings to the poor little widow, and had taken the sole
care of the boys during the sad weeks of care utter prostration and illness. Female friends
were with her, and tended her affectionately, but if exertion or thought were required of her,
the Major had to be called to her sofa to awaken her faculties, and she always awoke to attend
to his wishes, as though he were the channel of her husband's. This state of things ended with
the birth of the little girl, the daughter that Sir Stephen had so much wished for, coming
too late to be welcomed by him, but awakening her mother to tearful joy and renewed powers
of life. The nine months of little Stephana's life had been a tone of continual change and
variety, of new interests and occupations, and of the resumption of a feeling of health which
had scarcely been tasted since the first plunge into warm climates. Perhaps it was unreasonable
to expect to find Fanny broken down; and she talked in her own simple way with abundant overflowing
affection of her husband; but even Mrs. Curtis thought it was to her more like the loss of
her own father than of the father of her children; and though not in the least afraid of anything
unbecoming in her gentle, retiring Fanny, still felt that it was more the charge of a girl
than of a widow, dreaded the boys, dreaded their fate, and dreaded the Major more.

During this drive, Grace and Rachel had the care of the elder boys, whom Rachel thought safer
in her keeping than in Coombe's. A walk along the cliffs was one resource for their amusement,
but it resulted in Conrade's climbing into the most break-neck places, by preference selecting
those that Rachel called him out of, and as all the others thought it necessary to go after
him, the jeopardy of Leoline and Hubert became greater than it was possible to permit; so Grace
took them by the hands, and lured them home with promises of an introduction to certain white
rabbits at the lodge. After their departure, their brothers became infinitely more obstreperous.
Whether it were that Conrade had some slight amount of consideration for the limbs of his lesser
followers, or whether the fact were--what Rachel did not remotely imagine--that he was less
utterly unmanageable with her sister than with herself, certain it is that the brothers went
into still more intolerable places, and treated their guardian as ducklings treat an old hen.
At last they quite disappeared from the view round a projecting point of rock, and when she
turned it, she found a battle royal going on over an old lobster-pot--Conrade hand to hand
with a stout fisher-boy, and Francis and sundry amphibious creatures of both sexes exchanging
a hail of stones, water-smoothed brick-bats, cockle-shells, fishes' backbones, and other unsavoury
missiles. Abstractedly, Rachel had her theory that young gentlemen had better scramble their
way among their poor neighbours, and become used to all ranks; but when it came to witnessing
an actual skirmish when she was responsible for Fanny's sons, it was needful to interfere,
and in equal dismay and indignation she came round the point. The light artillery fled at her
aspect, and she had to catch Francis's arm in the act of discharging after them a cuttlefish's
white spine, with a sharp "For shame, they are running away! Conrade, Zack, have done!" Zack
was one of her own scholars, and held her in respect.

He desisted at once, and with a touch of his rough forelock, looked sheepish, and said, "Please
ma'am, he was meddling with our lobster-pot."

"I wasn't doing any harm," said Conrade. "I was just looking in, and they all came and shied
stones at us."

"I don't care how the quarrel began," said Rachel. "You would not have run into it if you had
been behaving properly. Zack was quite right to protect his father's property, but he might
have been more civil. Now shake hands, and have done with it."

"Not shake hands with a low boy," growled Francis. But happily Conrade was of a freer spirit,
and in spite of Rachel's interference, had sense enough to know himself in the wrong. He held
out his hand, and when the ceremony had been gone through, put his hands in his pockets, produced
a shilling, and said, "There, that's in case I did the thing any harm." Rachel would have preferred
Zachary's being above its acceptance, but he was not, and she was thankful that a wood path
offend itself, leading through the Homestead plantations away from the temptations and perils
of the shore.

That the two boys, instead of listening to her remonstrance, took to punching and kicking one
another, was a mitigated form of evil for which she willingly compounded, having gone through
so much useless interference already, that she felt as if she had no spirit left to keep the
peace, and that they must settle their little affairs between themselves. It was the most innocent
diversion in which she could hope to see them indulge. She only desired that it might last
them past a thrush's nest, in the hedge between the park and plantation, a somewhat treasured
discovery of Grace's. No such good luck. Either the thrush's imprudence or Grace's visits had
made the nest dangerously visible, and it was proclaimed with a shout. Rachel, in hot haste,
warned them against taking birds'-nests in general, and that in particular.

"Nests are made to be taken," said Francis.

"I've got an egg of all the Australian birds the Major could get me," said Conrade, "and I
mean to have all the English ones."

"Oh, one egg; there's no harm in taking that; but this nest has young birds."

The young birds must of course be seen, and Rachel stood by with despairing frowns, commands,
and assurances of their mother's displeasure, while they peeped in, tantalized the gaping yellow
throats, by holding up their fingers, and laid hands on the side of the nest, peeping at her
with laughing, mischievous eyes, enjoying her distress. She was glad at last to find them coming
away without the nest, and after crossing the park, arrived at the house, tired out, but with
two hours of the boys still on her hands. They, however, were a little tired, too; and, further,
Grace had hunted out the old bowls, much to the delight of the younger ones. This sport lasted
a good while, but at last the sisters, who had relaxed their attention a little, perceived
that Conrade and Hubert were both missing, and on Rachel's inquiry where they were, she received
from Francis that elegant stock answer, "in their skins." However, they came to light in process
of time, the two mothers returned home, and Mrs. Curtis and Grace had the conversation almost
in their own hands. Rachel was too much tired to do anything but read the new number of her
favourite "Traveller's Magazine," listening to her mother with one ear, and gathering additional
impressions of Sir Stephen Temple's imprudence, and the need of their own vigilance. To make
Fanny feel that she could lean upon some one besides the military secretary, seemed to be the
great object, and she was so confiding and affectionate with her own kin, that there were great
hopes. Those boys were an infliction, no doubt, but, thought Rachel, "there is always an ordeal
at the beginning of one's mission. I am mastering them by degrees, and should do so sooner
if I had them in my own hands, and no more worthy task can be done than training human beings
for their work in this world, so I must be willing to go through a little while I bring them
into order, and fit their mother for managing them."

She spent the time before breakfast the next morning in a search among the back numbers of
the "Traveller's Magazine" for a paper upon "Educational Laws," which she thought would be
very good reading for Fanny. Her search had been just completed when Grace returned home from
church, looking a good deal distressed. "My poor thrushes have not escaped, Rachel," she said;
"I came home that way to see how they were going on, and the nest is torn out, one poor little
fellow lying dead below it."

"Well, that is much worse than I expected!" burst out Rachel. "I did think that boy Conrade
would at least keep his promises." And she detailed the adventure of the previous day, whence
the conclusion was but too evident. Grace, however, said in her own sweet manner that she believed
boys could not resist a nest, and thought it mere womanhood to intercede for such lawful game.
She thought it would be best to take no notice, it would only distress Fanny and make "the
mother" more afraid of the boys than she was already, and she doubted the possibility of bringing
it home to the puerile conscience.

"That is weak!" said Rachel. "I received the boy's word, and it is my business to deal with
the breach of promise."

So down went Rachel, and finding the boys rushing about the garden, according to their practice,
before her arrival, she summoned Conrade, and addressed him with, "Well, Conrade, I knew that
you were violent and disobedient, but I never expected you to fail in your honour as a gentleman."

"I'll thrash any one who says I have," hotly exclaimed Conrade.

"Then you must thrash me. You gave your word to me not to take your Aunt Grace's thrush's nest."

"And I didn't," said Conrade, boldly.

But Rachel, used to flat denials at the village-school, was not to be thus set aside. "I am
shocked at you, Conrade," she said. "I know your mamma will be exceedingly grieved. You must
have fallen into very sad ways to be able to utter such a bold untruth. You had better confess
at once, and then I shall have something to tell her that will comfort he."

Conrade's dark face looked set as iron.

"Come; tell me you are sorry you took the nest, and have broken your word, and told a falsehood."

Red colour flushed into the brown cheek, and the hands were clenched.

"There is not the smallest use in denying it. I know you took it when you and Hubert went away
together. Your Aunt Grace found it gone this morning, and one of the poor little birds dead
below. What have you done with the others?"

Not a word.

"Then I grieve to say I must tell all to your mother."

There was a sort of smile of defiance, and he followed her. For a moment she thought of preventing
this, and preparing Fanny in private, but recollecting that this would give him the opportunity
of preparing Hubert to support his falsehood, she let him enter with her, and sought Lady Temple
in the nursery.

"Dear Fanny, I am very sorry to bring you so much vexation. I am afraid it will be a bitter
grief to you, but it is only for Conrade's own sake that I do it. It was a cruel thing to take
a bird's-nest at all, but worse when he knew that his Aunt Grace was particularly fond of it;
and, besides, he had promised not to touch it, and now, saddest of all, he denies having done so."

"Oh, Conrade, Conrade!" cried Fanny, quite confounded, "You can't have done like this!"

"So, I have not," said Conrade, coming up to her, as she held out her hand, positively encouraging
him, as Rachel thought, to persist in the untruth.

"Listen, Fanny," said Rachel. "I do not wonder that you are unwilling to believe anything so
shocking, but I do not come without being only too certain." And she gave the facts, to which
Fanny listened with pale cheeks and tearful eyes, then turned to the boy, whose hand she had
held all the time, and said, "Dear Con, do pray tell me if you did it."

"I did not," said Conrade, wrenching his hand away, and putting it behind his back.

"Where's Hubert?" asked Rachel, looking round, and much vexed when she perceived that Hubert
had been within hearing all the time, though to be sure there was some little hope to be founded
upon the simplicity of five years old.

"Come here, Hubert dear," said his mother; "don't be frightened, only come and tell me where
you and Con went yesterday, when the others were playing at bowls." Hubert hung his head, and
looked at his brother.

"Tell," quoth Conrade. "Never mind her, she's only a civilian."

"Where did you go, Hubert?"

"Con showed me the little birds in their nest."

"That is right, Hubert, good little boy. Did you or he touch the nest?"

"Yes." Then, as Conrade started, and looked fiercely at him, "Yes you did, Con, you touched
the inside to see what it was made of."

"But what did you do with it?" asked Rachel.

"Left it there, up in the tree," said the little boy.

"There, Rachel!" said the mother, triumphantly.

"I don't know what you mean," said Rachel, angrily, "only that Conrade is a worse boy than
I had thought him, end has been teaching his little brother falsehood."

The angry voice set Hubert crying, and little Cyril, who was very soft-hearted, joined in chorus,
followed by the baby, who was conscious of something very disagreeable going on in her nursery.
Thereupon, after the apparently most important business of comforting Miss Temple had been
gone through, the court of justice adjourned, Rachel opening the door of Conrade's little room,
and recommending solitary imprisonment there till he should be brought to confession. She did
not at all reckon on his mother going in with him, and shutting the door after her. It was
not the popular notion of solitary confinement, and Rachel was obliged to retire, and wait
in the drawing-room for a quarter of an hour before Fanny came down, and then it was to say--

"Do you know, Rachel dear, I am convinced that it must be a mistake. Conrade assures me he
never touched the nest."

"So he persists in it?"

"And indeed, Rachel dear, I cannot help believing him. If it had been Francie, now; but I never
knew Conrade tell an untruth in his life."

"You never knew, because you always believe him."

"And it is not only me, but I have often heard the Major say he could always depend on Conrade's
word."

Rachel's next endeavour was at gentle argument. "It must be dreadful to make such a discovery,
but it was far worse to let deceit go on undetected; and if only they were firm--" At that
moment she beheld two knickerbocker boys prancing on the lawn.

"Didn't you lock the door? Has he broken out? How audacious!"

"I let him come out," said Fanny; "there was nothing to shut him up for. I beg your pardon,
dear Rachel; I am very sony for the poor little birds and for Grace, but I am sure Conrade
did not take it."

"How can you be so unreasonable, Fanny--the evidence," and Rachel went over it all again.

"Don't you think," said Fanny, "that some boy may have got into the park?"

"My dear Fanny, I am sorry for you, it is quite out of the question to think so; the place
is not a stone's-throw from Randall's lodge. It will be the most fatal thing in the world to
let your weakness be imposed on in this way. Now that the case is clear, the boy must be forced
to confession, and severely punished."

Fanny burst into tears.

"I am very sorry for you, Fanny. I know it is very painful; I assure you it is so to me. Perhaps
it would be best if I were to lock him up, and go from time to time to see if he is come to
a better mind."

She rose up.

"No, no, Rachel!" absolutely screamed Fanny, starting up, "my boy hasn't done anything wrong,
and I won't have him locked up! Go away! If anything is to be done to my boys, I'll do it myself:
they haven't got any one but me. Oh, I wish the Major would come!"

"Fanny, how can you be so foolish?--as if I would hurt your boys!"

"But you won't believe Conrade--my Conrade, that never told a falsehood in his life!" cried
the mother, with a flush in her cheeks and a bright glance in her soft eyes. "You want me to
punish him for what he hasn't done."

"How much alike mothers are in all classes of life," thought Rachel, and much in the way in
which she would have brought Zack's mother to reason by threats of expulsion from the shoe-club,
she observed, "Well Fanny, one thing is clear, while you are so weak as to let that boy go
on in his deceit, unrepentant and unpunished, I can have no more to do with his education."

"Indeed," softly said Fanny, "I am afraid so, Rachel. You have taken a great deal of trouble,
but Conrade declares he will never say a lesson to you again, and I don't quite see how to
make him after this."

"Oh, very well; then there's an end of it. I am sorry for you, Fanny."

And away walked Rachel, and as she went towards the gate two artificial jets d'eau, making
a considerable curve in the air, alighted, the one just before her, the other, better aimed,
in the back of her neck. She had too much dignity to charge back upon the offenders, but she
went home full of the story of Fanny's lamentable weakness, and prognostications of the misery
she was entailing on herself. Her mother and sister were both much concerned, and thought Fanny
extremely foolish; Mrs. Curtis consoling herself with the hope that the boys would be cured
and tamed at school, and begging that they might never be let loose in the park again. Rachel
could not dwell much longer on the matter, for she had to ride to Upper Avon Park to hold council
on the books to be ordered for the book-club; for if she did got go herself, whatever she wanted
especially was always set aside as too something or other for the rest of the subscribers.

Mrs. Curtis was tired, and stayed at home; and Grace spent the afternoon in investigations
about the harrying of the thrushes, but, alas! without coming a bit nearer the truth. Nothing
was seen or heard of Lady Temple till, at half-past nine, one of the midges, or diminutive
flies used at Avonmonth, came to the door, and Fanny came into the drawing-room--wan, tearful,
agitated.

"Dear Rachel, I am so afraid I was hasty, I could not sleep without coming to tell you how
sorry I am."

"Then you are convinced? I knew you would be."

"Oh, yes, I have just been sitting by him after he was gone to bed. He never goes to sleep
till I have done that, and he always tells me if anything is on his mind. I could not ask him
again, it would have been insulting him; but he went over it all of himself, and owned he ought
not to have put a finger on the edge of the nest, but he wanted so to see what it was lined
with; otherwise he never touched it. He says, poor boy, that it was only your being a civilian
that made you not able to believe him, I am sure you must believe him now."

Mrs. Curtis began, in her gentle way, about the difficulty of believing one's children in fault,
but Lady Temple was entirely past accepting the possibility of Conrade's being to blame in
this particular instance. It made her bristle up again, so that even Rachel saw the impossibility
of pressing it, and trusted to some signal confutation to cure her of her infatuation. But
she was as affectionate as ever, only wanting to be forgiven for the morning's warmth, and
to assure dear Aunt Curtis, dear Grace, and dearest Rachel in particular, that there was no
doing without them, and it was the greatest blessing to be near them.

"Oh! and the squirting, dear Rachel! I was so sorry when I found it out, it was only Francie
and Leo. I was very angry with them for it, and I should like to make them ask pardon, only
I don't think Francie would. I'm afraid they are very rude boys. I must write to the Major
to find me a governess that won't be very strict with them, and if she could be an officer's
daughter, the boys would respect her so much more."

CHAPTER III. MACKAREL LANE

 "For I would lonely stand
  Uplifting my white hand,
  On a mission, on a mission,
  To declare the coming vision."
               ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING.

"Well, Grace, all things considered, perhaps I had better walk down with you to Mackarel Lane,
and then I can form a judgment on these Williamses without committing Fanny."

"Then you do not intend to go on teaching?"

"Not while Conrade continues to brave me, and is backed up by poor Fanny."

"I might speak to Miss Williams after church, and bring her in to Myrtlewood for Fanny to see."

"Yes, that might do in time; but I shall make up my mind first. Poor Fanny is so easily led
that we must take care what influences fall in her way."

"I always wished you would call."

"Yes, and I would not by way of patronage to please Mr. Touchett, but this is for a purpose;
and I hope we shall find both sisters at home."

Mackarel Lane was at right angles to the shore, running up the valley of the Avon; but it soon
ceased to be fishy, and became agricultural, owning a few cottages of very humble gentility,
which were wont to hang out boards to attract lodgers of small means. At one of these Grace
rang, and obtained admittance to a parlour with crazy French windows opening on a little strip
of garden. In a large wheeled chair, between the fire and the window, surrounded by numerous
little appliances for comfort and occupation, sat the invalid Miss Williams, holding out her
hand in welcome to the guests.

"A fine countenance! what one calls a fine countenance!" thought Rachel. "Is it a delusion
of insipidity as usual? The brow is good, massive, too much for the features, but perhaps they
were fuller once; eyes bright and vigorous, hazel, the colour for thought; complexion meant
to be brilliant brunette, a pleasant glow still; hair with threads of grey. I hope she does
not affect youth; she can't be less than one or two and thirty! Many people set up for beauties
with far less claim. What is the matter with her? It is not the countenance of deformity--accident,
I should say. Yes, it is all favourable except the dress. What a material; what a pattern!
Did she get it second-hand from a lady's-maid? Will there be an incongruity in her conversation
to match? Let us see. Grace making inquiries--Quite at my best--Ah! she is not one of the morbid
sort, never thinking themselves better."

"I was afraid, I had not seen you out for some time."

"No; going out is a troublesome business, and sitting in the garden answers the same purpose."

"Of air, perhaps, but hardly of change or of view."

"Oh! I assure you there is a wonderful variety," she answered, with an eager and brilliant smile.

"Clouds and sunsets?" asked Rachel, beginning to be interested.

"Yes, differing every day. Then I have the tamarisk and its inhabitants. There has been a tom-tit's
nest every year since we came, and that provides us with infinite amusement. Besides the sea-gulls
are often so good as to float high enough for me to see them. There is a wonderful charm in
a circumcribed view, because one is obliged to look well into it all."

"Yes; eyes and no eyes apply there," said Rachel.

"We found a great prize, too, the other day. Rosie!"

At the call a brown-haired, brown-eyed child of seven, looking like a little fawn, sprang to
the window from the outside.

"My dear, will you show the sphynx to Miss Curtis?"

The little girl daintily brought a box covered with net, in which a huge apple-green caterpillar,
with dashes of bright colour on his sides, and a horny spike on his tail, was feasting upon
tamarisk leaves. Grace asked if she was going to keep it. "Yes, till it buries itself," said
the child. "Aunt Ermine thinks it is the elephant sphynx."

"I cannot be sure," said the aunt, "my sister tried to find a figure of it at Villars', but
he had no book that gave the caterpillars. Do you care for those creatures?"

"I like to watch them," said Grace, "but I know nothing about them scientifically; Rachel does
that."

"Then can you help us to the history of our sphynx?" asked Miss Williams, with her pleasant look.

"I will see if I have his portrait," said Rachel, "but I doubt it. I prefer general principles
to details."

"Don't you find working out details the best way of entering into general principles?"

It was new to Rachel to find the mention of a general principle received neither with a stare
nor a laugh; and she gathered herself up to answer, "Naming and collecting is not science."

"And masonry is not architecture, but you can't have architecture without it."

"One can have broad ideas without all the petty work of flower botanists and butterfly naturalists."

"Don't you think the broad ideas would be rather of the hearsay order, at least to most people,
unless their application were worked out in the trifle that came first to hand?"

"Experimental philosophy," said Rachel, in rather a considering tone, as if the notion, when
presented to her in plain English, required translation into the language of her thoughts.

"If you like to call it so," said Miss Williams, with a look of arch fun. "For instance, the
great art of mud pie taught us the porous nature of clay, the expansive power of steam, etc. etc."

"You had some one to improve it to you?"

"Oh dear no. Only afterwards, when we read of such things we remembered how our clay manufactures
always burst in the baking unless they were well dried first."

"Then you had the rare power of elucidating a principle?"

"No, not I. My brother had; but I could only perceive the confirmation."

"This reminds me of an interesting article on the Edgeworth system of education in the 'Traveller's
Review.' I will send it down to you."

"Thank you, but I have it here."

"Indeed; and do you not think it excellent, and quite agree with it?"

"Yes, I quite agree with it," and there was an odd look in her bright transparent eyes that
made Grace speculate whether she could have heard that agreement with the Invalid in the "Traveller's
Review" was one of the primary articles of faith acquired by Rachel.

But Grace, though rather proud of Rachel's falling under the spell of Miss Williams' conversation,
deemed an examination rather hard on her, and took the opportunity of asking for her sister.

"She is generally at home by this time; but this is her last day at Cliff Cottages, and she
was to stay late to help in the packing up."

"Will she be at home for the present?" asked Grace.

"Yes, Rose and I are looking forward to a festival of her."

Grace was not at all surprised to hear Rachel at once commit herself with "My cousin, Lady
Temple," and rush into the matter in hand as if secure that the other Miss Williams would educate
on the principles of the Invalid; but full in the midst there was a sound of wheels and a ring
at the bell. Miss Williams quietly signed to her little attendant to put a chair in an accessible
place, and in walked Lady Temple, Mrs. Curtis, and the middle brace of boys.

"The room will be too full," was Grace's aside to her sister, chiefly thinking of her mother,
but also of their hostess; but Rachel returned for answer, "I must see about it;" and Grace
could only remove herself into the verandah, and try to attract Leoline and Hubert after her,
but failing in this, she talked to the far more conversible Rose about the bullfinch that hung
at the window, which loved no one but Aunt Ermine, and scolded and pecked at every one else;
and Augustus, the beloved tame toad, that lived in a hole under a tree in the garden. Mrs.
Curtis, considerate and tender-hearted, startled to find her daughter in the field, and wishing
her niece to begin about her own affairs, talked common-place by way of filling up the time,
and Rachel had her eyes free for a range of the apartment. The foundation was the dull, third-rate
lodging-house, the superstructure told of other scenes. One end of the room was almost filled
by the frameless portrait of a dignified clergyman, who would have had far more justice done
to him by greater distance; a beautifully-painted miniature of a lady with short waist and
small crisp curls, was the centre of a system of photographs over the mantel-piece; a large
crayon sketch showed three sisters between the ages of six and sixteen, sentimentalizing over
a flower-basket; a pair of water-colour drawings represented a handsome church and comfortable
parsonage; and the domestic gallery was completed by two prints--one of a middle-aged county-member,
the other one of Chalon's ladylike matrons in watered-silk aprons. With some difficulty Rachel
read on the one the autograph, J. T. Beauchamp, and on the other the inscription, the Lady
Alison Beauchamp. The table-cover was of tasteful silk patchwork, the vase in the centre was
of red earthenware, but was encircled with real ivy leaves gummed on in their freshness, and
was filled with wild flowers; books filled every corner; and Rachel felt herself out of the
much-loathed region of common-place, but she could not recover from her surprise at the audacity
of such an independent measure on the part of her cousin; and under cover of her mother's civil
talk, said to Fanny, "I never expected to see you here."

"My aunt thought of it," said Fanny, "and as she seems to find the children too much--"

She broke off, for Mrs. Curtis had paused to let her introduce the subject, but poor Fanny
had never taken the initiative, and Rachel did it for her by explaining that all had come on
the same errand, to ask if Miss Williams would undertake the lessons of her nephews; Lady Temple
softly murmured under her veil something about hopes and too much trouble; an appointment was
made for the following morning, and Mrs. Curtis, with a general sensation of an oppressive
multitude in a small room, took her leave, and the company departed, Fanny, all the way home,
hoping that the other Miss Williams would be like her sister, pitying the cripple, wishing
that the sisters were in the remotest degree military, so as to obtain the respect of the hoys,
and wondering what would be the Major's opinion.

"So many ladies!" exclaimed little Rose. "Aunt Ermine, have they made your head ache?"

"No, my dear, thank you, I am only tired. If you will pull out the rest for my feet, I will
be quiet a little, and be ready for tea when Aunt Ailie comes."

The child handily converted the chair into a couch, arranging the dress and coverings with
the familiarity of long use, and by no means shocked by the contraction and helplessness of
the lower limbs, to which she had been so much accustomed all her life that it never even occurred
to her to pity Aunt Ermine, who never treated herself as an object of compassion. She was thanked
by a tender pressure on her hair, and then saying--

"Now I shall wish Augustus good night; bring Violetta home from her play in the garden, and
let her drink tea, and go to bed."

Ah, Violetta, purchased with a silver groat, what was not your value in Mackarel Lane? Were
you not one of its most considered inhabitants, scarcely less a child of Aunt Ermine and Aunt
Alison than their Rosebud herself?

Murmur, murmur, rippled the child's happy low-toned monologue directed to her silent but sufficient
playmate, and so far from disturbing the aunt, that more than one smile played on her lips
at the quaint fancies, and at the well of gladness in the young spirit, which made day after
day of the society of a cripple and an old doll, one constant song of bliss, one dream of bright
imaginings. Surely it was an equalization of blessings that rendered little lonely Rose, motherless
and well nigh fatherless, poor, with no companion but a crippled aunt, a bird and a toad, with
scarcely a toy, and never a party of pleasure, one of the most joyous beings under the sun,
free from occasions of childish troubles, without collisions of temper, with few contradictions,
and with lessons rather pleasure than toil. Perhaps Ermine did not take into account the sunshiny
content and cheerfulness that made herself a delightful companion and playfellow, able to accept
the child as her solace, not her burthen.

Presently Rose looked up, and meeting the bright pleasant eyes, observed--"Violetta has been
very good, and said all her lessons quite perfect, and she would like to sit up till her Aunt
Ailie comes home. Do you think she may?"

"Will she not be tired to-morrow?"

"Oh, then she will be lazy, and not get up when she is called, till I pull all the clothes
off, and that will be fun."

"Or she may be fretful now?"

A series of little squeaks ensued, followed by "Now, my love; that is taking a very unfair
advantage of my promise. You will make your poor Aunt Ermine's head ache, and I shall have
to send you to bed."

"Would not a story pass away the time?"

"You tell it, Aunt Ermine; your stories are always the best. And let there be a fairy in it!"

The fairy had nearly performed her part, when the arrival took place, and Rose darted forward
to receive Aunt Ailie's greeting kiss.

"Yes, Rosie--yes, Violetta; what do you think I have got for you?"

And out came a doll's chair with a broken leg, condemned by the departing pupils, and granted
with a laugh to the governess's request to take it to her little niece; but never in its best
days had the chair been so prized. It was introduced to Violetta as the reward of virtue for
having controlled her fretfulness, and the repair of its infirmity was the first consideration
that occupied all the three. After all, Violetta's sitting posture was, as Alison observed,
an example of the inclined plane, but that was nothing to Rose, and the seance would have been
indefinitely prolonged, but for considerations for Violetta's health.

The sisters were alike, and Alison had, like her elder, what is emphatically called countenance,
but her features were less chiselled, and her dark straight brows so nearly met that, as Rose
had once remarked, they made a bridge of one arch instead of two. Six years younger, in full
health, and daily battling with the world, Alison had a remarkable look of concentration and
vigour, her upright bearing, clear decided speech, and glance of kindness won instant respect
and reliance, but her face missed the radiant beamy brightness of her sister's; her face was
sweet and winning, but it was not habitual with her, and there was about her a look as if some
terrible wave of grief or suffering had swept over her ere yet the features were fully fixed,
and had thus moulded her expression for life. But playfulness was the tone that reigned around
Ermine's couch at ordinary moments, and beside her the grave Alison was lively, not with effort,
but by infection.

"There," she said, holding up a cheque; "now we'll have a jubilee, and take you down under
the East cliff, and we'll invest a shilling in 'Ivanhoe,' and Rose and Violetta shall open
their ears!"

"And you shall have a respectable Sunday mantle."

"Oh, I dare say Julia will send us a box."

"Then you will have to put a label on your back, 'Second-hand!' or her velvet will be a scandal.
I can't wear out that at home like this flagrant, flowery thing, that I saw Miss Curtis looking
at as rather a disreputable article. There's preferment for you, Ailie! What do you think of
a general's widow with six boys? She is come after you. We had a great invasion--three Curtises
and this pretty little widow, and various sons!"

"Will she stay?"

"Most likely, for she is a relation of Mrs. Curtis, and comes to be near her. You are to call
for inspection at eleven o'clock tomorrow, so I fear your holiday will be short."

"Well, the less play the less anxiety. How many drives will the six young gentlemen be worth
to you?"

"I am afraid it will be at the cost of tough work to you; she looked to me too sweet a creature
to have broken her sons in, but I should think she would be pleasant to deal with."

"If she be like Miss Curtis, I am sure she will."

"Miss Curtis? My old friend you mean. She was rather suppressed today, and I began to comprehend
the reason of the shudder with which Mr. Touchett speaks of the dogmatical young lady."

"I hope she did not overwhelm you!"

"Oh, no! I rather liked her; she was so earnest and spirited, I could fancy enjoying a good
passage at arms with her if these were old times. But I hope she will not take the direction
of your school-room, though she is an admirer of the educational papers in the 'Traveller.'"

And here the discussion was ended by the entrance of little Rose with the preliminaries of
the evening meal, after which she went to bed, and the aunts took out books, work, and writing
materials.

Alison's report the next day was--"Well, she is a very sweet creature. There is something indescribably
touching in her voice and eyes, so soft and wistful, especially when she implores one not to
be hard on those great scrambling boys of hers."

"So she is your fate?"

"Oh, yes, if there had been ten more engagements offered, I could not have helped accepting
hers, even if it had not been on the best terms I have ever had."

"What?"

"Seventy--for the hours between nine and five. Pretty well for a journeyman hack, is it not?
Indeed, the pretty thing's only fear seemed to be that she was requiring too much, and offering
too little. No, not her only fear, for there is some major in the distance to whose approval
everything must be subject--uncle or guardian, I suppose, but he seemed to be rather an object
of jealousy to the younger Miss Curtis, for every hint of wishing to wait for the Major made
her press on the negotiations."

"Seventy! I hope you will make it do, Ailie. It would be a great relief."

"And spare your brains not a little. Yes, I do trust to keeping it, for Lady Temple is delightful;
and as to the boys, I fancy it is only taming they want. The danger is, as Miss Rachel told
me, whether she can bear the sight of the process. I imagine Miss Rachel herself has tried
it, and failed."

"Part amateur work," said Ermine, smiling. "It really is lucky you had to turn governess, Ailie,
or there would have been a talent thrown away."

"Stay till I have tried," said Alison, who had, however, had experience enough not to be much
alarmed at the prospect. Order was wont to come with her presence, and she hardly knew the
aspect of tumultuous idleness or insubordination to unenforced authority; for her eye and voice
in themselves brought cheerful discipline without constraint, and upheld by few punishments,
for the strong influence took away the spirit of rebellion.

After her first morning's work she came home full of good auguries; the boys had been very
pleasant with her after the first ten minutes, and Conrade had gained her heart by his attention
to his mother. He had, however, examined her minutely whether she had any connexion with the
army, and looked grave on her disavowal of any relationship with soldiers; Hubert adding, "You
see, Aunt Rachel is only a civilian, and she hasn't any sense at all." And when Francis had
been reduced to the much disliked process of spelling unknown words, he had muttered under
his breath, "She was only a civilian." To which she had rejoined that "At least she knew thus
much, that the first military duty was obedience," and Francis's instant submission proved
that she had made a good shot. Of the Major she had heard much more. Everything was referred
to him, both by mother and children, and Alison was the more puzzled as to his exact connexion
with them. "I sometimes suspect," she said, "that he may have felt the influence of those winsome
brown eyes and caressing manner, as I know I should if I were a man. I wonder how long the
old general has been dead? No, Ermine, you need not shake your head at me. I don't mean even
to let Miss Curtis tell me if she would. I know confidences from partisan relations are the
most mischief-making things in the world."

In pursuance of this principle Alison, or Miss Williams, as she was called in her vocation,
was always reserved and discreet, and though ready to talk in due measure, Rachel always felt
that it was the upper, not the under current that was proffered. The brow and eyes, the whole
spirit of the face, betokened reflection and acuteness, and Rachel wanted to attain to her
opinions; but beyond a certain depth there was no reaching. Her ways of thinking, her views
of the children's characters, her estimate of Mr. Touchett--nay, even her tastes as to the
Invalid's letters in the "Traveller's Review," remained only partially revealed, in spite of
Rachel's best efforts at fishing, and attempting to set the example.

"It really seemed," as she observed to Grace, "as if the more I talk, the less she says." At
which Grace gave way to a small short laugh, though she owned the force of Rachel's maxim,
that to bestow confidence was the way to provoke it; and forbore to refer to a certain delightful
afternoon that Rachel, in her childhood, had spent alone with a little girl whom she had never
discovered to be deaf and dumb. Still Rachel had never been able to make out why Grace, with
no theories at all, got so many more confidences than she did. She was fully aware of her sister's
superior attractiveness to common-place people, and made her welcome to stand first with the
chief of their kindred, and most of the clergy and young ladies around. But it was hard that
where Rachel really liked and met half-way, the intimate confidence should always be bestowed
upon Grace, or even the mother. She had yet to learn that the way to draw out a snail is not
to, grasp its horns, and that halfway meeting is not to launch one's self to the opposite starting
point. Either her inquiries were too point blank to invite detailed replies, or her own communications
absorbed her too much to leave room for a return. Thus she told Miss Williams the whole story
of the thrush's nest, and all her own reflections upon the characteristics it betokened; and
only afterwards, on thinking over the conversation, perceived that she had elicited nothing
but that it was very difficult to judge in such cases, not even any decided assent to her own
demonstrations. It was true that riots and breaches of the peace ceased while Miss Williams
was in the house, and learning and good manners were being fast acquired; but until Conrade's
duplicity should be detected, or the whole disposition of the family discussed with herself,
Rachel doubted the powers of the instructress. It was true that Fanny was very happy with her,
and only regretted that the uncertainty of the Major's whereabouts precluded his being informed
of the newly-found treasure; but Fanny was sure to be satisfied as long as her boys were happy
and not very naughty, and she cared very little about people's minds.

If any one did "get on" with the governess it was Grace, who had been the first acquaintance
in the family, and met her often in the service of the parish, as well as in her official character
at the Homestead. It so chanced that one Sunday afternoon they found themselves simultaneously
at the door of the school-house, whence issued not the customary hum, but loud sounds of singing.

"Ah!" said Grace, "Mr. Touchett was talking of getting the choir master from Avoncester, and
giving up an afternoon to practice for Easter, but he never told me it was to be to-day."

On inquiry, it appeared that notice had been given in the morning, but not till after Miss
Williams had gone home to fetch her little niece, and while Rachel was teaching her boys in
the class-room out of hearing. It was one of the little bits of bad management that were sure
to happen wherever poor Mr. Touchett was concerned; and both ladies feeling it easy to overlook
for themselves, were thankful that it had not befallen Rachel. Alison Williams, thinking it
far to walk either to the Homestead or Myrtlewood before church, proposed to Grace to come
home with her, an offer that was thankfully accepted, with merely the scruple whether she should
disturb the invalid.

"Oh, no, it would be a great pleasure; I always wish we could get more change and variety for
her on Sunday."

"She is very self-denying to spare you to the school."

"I have often wished to give it up, but she never will let me. She says it is one of the few
things we can do, and I see besides that it brings her fresh interests. She knows about all
my class, and works for them, and has them to see her; and I am sure it is better for her,
though it leaves her more hours alone with Rose."

"And the Sunday services are too long for her?"

"Not so much that, as that she cannot sit on those narrow benches unless two are put close
together so that she can almost lie, and there is not room for her chair in the aisle on a
Sunday. It is the greatest deprivation of all."

"It is so sad, and she is so patient and so energetic," said Grace, using her favourite monosyllable
in peace, out of Rachel's hearing.

"You would say so, indeed, if you really knew her, or how she has found strength and courage
for me through all the terrible sutfering."

"Then does she suffer so much?"

"Oh, no, not now! That was in the first years."

"It was not always so."

"No, indeed! You thought it deformity! Oh, no, no! she was so beautiful."

"That she is still. I never saw my sister so much struck with any one. There is something so
striking in her bright glance out of those clear eyes."

"Ah! if you had only seen her bloom before--"

"The accident?"

"I burnt her," said Alison, almost inaudibly.

"You! you, poor dear! How dreadful for you."

"Yes, I burnt her," said Alison, more steadily. "You ought not to be kind to me without knowing
about it. It was an accident of course, but it was a fit of petulance. I threw a match without
looking where it was going."

"It must have been when you were very young."

"Fourteen. I was in a naughty fit at her refusing to go to the great musical meeting with us.
We always used to go to stay at one of the canon's houses for it, a house where one was dull
and shy; and I could not bear going without her, nor understand the reason."

"And was there a reason?"

"Yes, poor dear Ermine. She knew he meant to come there to meet her, and she thought it would
not be right; because his father had objected so strongly, and made him exchange into a regiment
on foreign service."

"And you did not know this?"

"No, I was away all the time it was going on, with my eldest sister, having masters in London.
I did not come home till it was all over, and then I could not understand what was the matter
with the house, or why Ermine was unlike herself, and papa restless and anxious about her.
They thought me too young to be told, and the atmosphere made me cross and fretful, and papa
was displeased with me, and Ermine tried in vain to make me good; poor patient Ermine, even
then the chief sufferer!"

"I can quite imagine the discomfort and fret of being in ignorance all the time."

"Dear Ermine says she longed to tell me, but she had been forbidden, and she went on blaming
herself and trying to make me enjoy my holidays as usual, till this dreadful day, when I had
worried her intolerably about going to this music meeting, and she found reasoning only made
me worse. She still wrote her note of refusal, and asked me to light the taper; I dashed down
the match in a frenzy of temper and--"

She paused for breath, and Grace squeezed her hand.

"We did not see it at first, and then she threw herself down and ordered me not to come near.
Every one was there directly, I believe, but it burst out again and again, and was not put
out till they all thought she had not an hour to live. There was no pain, and there she lay,
all calmness, comforting us all, and making papa and Edward promise to forgive me--me, who
only wished they would kill me! And the next day he came; he was just going to sail, and they
thought nothing would hurt her then. I saw him while he was waiting, and never did I see such
a fixed deathly face. But they said she found words to cheer and soothe him."

"And what became of him?"

"We do not know. As long as Lady Alison lived (his aunt) she let us hear about him, and we
knew he was recovering from his wound. Then came her death, and then my father's, and all the
rest, and we lost sight of the Beauchamps. We saw the name in the Gazette as killed at Lucknow,
but not the right Christian name nor the same rank; but then, though the regiment is come home,
we have heard nothing of him, and though she has never spoken of him to me, I am sure Ermine
believes he is dead, and thinks of him as part of the sunshine of the old Beauchamp days--the
sunshine whose reflection lasts one's life."

"He ought to be dead," said Grace.

"Yes, it would be better for her than to hear anything else of him! He had nothing of his own,
so there would have been a long waiting, but his father and brother would not hear of it, and
accused us of entrapping him, and that angered my father. For our family is quite good, and
we were very well off then. My father had a good private fortune besides the Rectory at Beauchamp;
and Lady Alison, who had been like a mother to us ever since our own died, quite thought that
the prospect was good enough, and I believe got into a great scrape with her family for having
promoted the affair."

"Your squire's wife?"

"Yes, and Julia and Ermine had come every day to learn lessons with her daughters. I was too
young; but as long as she lived we were all like one family. How kind she was! How she helped
us through those frightful weeks!"

"Of your sister's illness? It must have lasted long?"

"Long? Oh longer than long! No one thought of her living. The doctors said the injury was too
extensive to leave any power of rallying; but she was young and strong, and did not die in
the torture, though people said that such an existence as remained to her was not worth the
anguish of struggling back to it. I think my father only prayed that she might suffer less,
and Julia stayed on and on, thinking each day would be the last, till Dr. Long could not spare
her any longer; and then Lady Alison nursed her night after night and day after day, till she
had worn herself into an illness, and when the doctors spoke of improvement, we only perceived
worse agony. It was eight months before she was even lifted up in bed, and it was years before
the burns ceased to be painful or the constitution at all recovered the shock; and even now
weather tells on her, though since we have lived here she has been far better than I ever dared
to hope."

"Then you consider her still recovering?"

"In general health she is certainly greatly restored, and has strength to attempt more, but
the actual injury, the contraction, can never be better than now. When we lived at Richmond
she had constantly the best advice, and we were told that nothing more could be hoped for."

"I wonder more and more at her high spirits. I suppose that was what chiefly helped to carry
her through?"

"I have seen a good many people," said Alison, pausing, "but I never did see any one so happy!
Others are always wanting something; she never is. Every enjoyment seems to be tenfold to her
what it is to other people; she sees the hopeful side of every sorrow. No burthen is a burthen
when one has carried it to her."

As Alison spoke, she pushed open the narrow green door of the little lodging-house, and there
issued a weak, sweet sound of voices: "The strain upraise of joy and praise." It was the same
that had met their ears at the school-door, but the want of body in the voices was fully compensated
by the heartfelt ring, as if here indeed was praise, not practice.

"Aunt Ailie! O Aunt Ailie!" cried the child, as the room-door opened and showed the little
choir, consisting of herself, her aunt, and the small maid of the house, "you should not have
come, you were not to hear us till Trinity Sunday."

Explanations were given, and Miss Curtis was welcomed, but Alison, still too much moved for
ordinary conversation, slipped into the bedroom adjoining, followed by her sister's quick and
anxious eye, and half-uttered inquiry.

"I am afraid it is my fault," said Grace; "she has been telling me about your accident."

"Poor Ailie," said Ermine, "she never will receive kindness without having that unlucky story
out! It is just one of the things that get so cruelly exaggerated by consequences. It was one
moment's petulance that might have caused a fright and been forgotten ever after, but for those
chemicals. Ah! I see, she said nothing about them, because they were Edward's. They were some
parcels for his experiments, gun cotton and the like, which were lying in the window till he
had time to take them upstairs. We had all been so long threatened with being blown up by his
experiments that we had grown callous and careless, and it served us right!" she added, stroking
the child's face as it looked at her, earnest to glean fresh fragments of the terrible half-known
tale of the past. "Yes, Rosie, when you go and keep house for papa on the top of the Oural
Mountains, or wherever it may be, you are to remember that if Aunt Ermine had not been in a
foolish, inattentive mood, and had taken his dangerous goods out of the way, she might have
been trotting to church now like other people. But poor Ailie has always helped herself to
the whole blame, and if every childish fit of temper were the root of such qualities, what
a world we should have here!"

"Ah! no wonder she is devoted to you."

"The child was not fifteen, had never known cross or care, but from that moment she never was
out of my room if it was possible to be in; and when nurse after nurse was fairly worn out,
because I could not help being so distressing, there was always that poor child, always handy
and helpful, growing to be the chief dependence, and looking so piteously imploring whatever
was tried, that it really helped me to go through with it. Poor Ailie," she added with an odd
turn of playfulness, "I always fancied those frowns of anxiety made her eyebrows grow together.
And ever since we came here, we know how she has worked away for her old cinder and her small
Rosebud, don't we?" she added, playfully squeezing the child's cheeks up into a more budding
look, hiding deeper and more overcoming feelings by the sportive action. And as her sister
came back, she looked up and shook her head at her, saying,--

"You gossiping Ailie, to go ripping up old grievances. I am going to ask Miss Curtis not to
let the story go any farther, now you have relieved your mind of it."

"I did tell Lady Temple," said Alison; "I never think it right not to let people know what
sort of person they have to teach their children."

And Grace, on feeling her way, discovered that Lady Temple had been told the bare fact in Miss
Williams's reserved and business-like manner, but with nothing of the affair that had led to
it. She merely looked on it in the manner fully expressed by--"Ah, poor thing; how sad for
her!" as a shocking secret, never to be talked of or thought about. And that voluntary detailed
relation from Alison could only be regarded as drawn forth by Grace's own individual power
of winning confidence, and the friendliness that had so long subsisted between them. Nor indeed
was the reserve regarding the cause of the present reduced circumstances of the sisters at
all lessened; it was only known that their brother had ruined them by a fraudulent speculation,
and had then fled to the Continent, leaving them burthened with the maintenance of his child,
but that they refused to believe in his guilt, and had thus incurred the displeasure of other
relatives and friends. Alison was utterly silent about him. Ermine seemed to have a tender
pleasure in bringing in a reference to his ways as if all were well, and it were a matter of
course to speak of "Edward;" but it was plain that Ermine's was an outspoken nature. This might,
however, be only because the one had been a guarded, sheltered invalid, while the other had
gone forth among strangers to battle for a livelihood, and moreover, the elder sister had been
fully grown and developed before the shock which had come on the still unformed Alison.

At any rate, nobody but Grace "got on" with the governess, while the invalid made friends with
all who visited her, and most signally with Rachel, who, ere long, esteemed her environment
a good work, worthy of herself. The charity of sitting with a twaddling, muffatee-knitting
old lady was indisputable, but it was perfectly within Grace's capacity; and Rachel believed
herself to be far more capable of entertaining the sick Miss Williams, nor was she mistaken.
When excited or interested, most people thought her oppressive; but Ermine Williams, except
when unwell, did not find her so, and even then a sharp debate was sometimes a cure for the
nervous ailments induced by the monotony of her life. They seemed to have a sort of natural
desire to rub their minds one against the other, and Rachel could not rest without Miss Williams's
opinion of all that interested her--paper, essay, book, or event; but often, when expecting
to confer a favour by the loan, she found that what was new to her was already well known in
that little parlour, and even the authorship no mystery. Ermine explained this by her correspondence
with literary friends of her brother's, and country-bred Rachel, to whom literature was still
an oracle unconnected with living agencies, listened, yes, absolutely listened to her anecdotes
of sayings and doings, far more like clever memoirs than the experiences of the banks of the
Avon. Perhaps there was this immediate disadvantage, that hearing of a more intellectual tone
of society tended to make Rachel less tolerant of that which surrounded her, and especially
of Mr. Touchett. It was droll that, having so long shunned the two sisters under the impression
that they were his protegees and worshippers, she found that Ermine's point of view was quite
the rectorial one, and that to venerate the man for his office sake was nearly as hard to Ermine
as to herself, though the office was more esteemed.

Alison, the reserved, had held her tongue on his antecedents; but Ermine was drawn into explaining
that his father had been a minor canon, who had eked out his means with a combination of chaplaincies
and parts of curacies, and by teaching at the school where his son was educated. Indignant
at the hack estimation in which his father had been held, the son, far more justly viewing
both the dignity and duty of his office, was resolved to be respected; but bred up in second
rate society, had neither weight, talent, nor manners to veil his aggressive self-assertion,
and he was at this time especially trying to the Curtises.

Cathedral music had been too natural to him for the endurance of an unchoral service, and the
prime labour of his life was to work up his choir; but he was musical by education rather than
nature, and having begun his career with such mortal offence to the native fiddlers and singers
as to impel them into the arms of dissent, he could only supply the loss from the school by
his own voice, of which he was not chary, though using it with better will than taste. The
staple of his choir were Rachel's scholars. Her turn had always been for boys, and her class
on Sunday mornings and two evenings in the week had long been in operation before the reign
of Mr. Touchett. Then two lads, whose paternal fiddles had seceded to the Plymouth Brethren,
were suspended from all advantages by the curate, and Rachel was with difficulty withheld from
an explosion; but even this was less annoying than the summons at the class-room door every
Sunday morning, that, in the midst of her lesson, carried off the chief of her scholars to
practise their chants. Moreover, the blame of all imperfect lessons was laid on the "singing
for the parson," and all faults in the singing by the tasks for Miss Rachel; and one night,
the excellent Zack excused his failure in geography by saying that Mr. Touchett had thrown
away his book, and said that it was no better than sacrilege, omitting, however, to mention
that he had been caught studying it under his surplice during the lessons.

At last, with his usual fatality, the curate fixed the grand practice for the Saturday evenings
that were Rachel's great days for instruction in the three R's, and for a sort of popular lecture.
Cricket was to succeed the singing, and novelty carried the day, but only by the desertion
of her scholars did Rachel learn the new arrangement, and she could hardly credit the assertion
that the curate was not aware that it was her day. In fact, it was the only one when the fisher
lads were sure not to be at sea, and neither party would yield it. Mr. Touchett was determined
not to truckle to dictation from the great house; so when Rachel declared she would have nothing
to do with the boys unless the Saturdays were conceded to her, he owned that he thought the
clergyman had the first right to his lads, and had only not claimed them before out of deference
for the feelings of a well-meaning parishioner.

Both parties poured out their grievances to the same auditor, for Mr. Touchett regarded Ermine
Williams as partly clerical, and Rachel could never be easy without her sympathy. To hear was
not, however, to make peace, while each side was so sore, so conscious of the merits of its
own case, so blind to those of the other. One deemed praise in its highest form the prime object
of his ministry; the other found the performance indevotional, and raved that education should
be sacrificed to wretched music. But that the dissension was sad and mischievous, it would
have been very diverting; they were both so young in their incapacity of making allowances,
their certainty that theirs was the theory to bring in the golden age, and even in their magnanimity
of forgiveness, and all the time they thought themselves so very old. "I am resigned to disappointments;
I have seen something of life."--"You forget, Miss Williams, that my ministerial experience
is not very recent."

There was one who would have smoothed matters far better than any, who, like Ermine, took her
weapons from the armoury of good sense; but that person was entirely unconscious how the incumbent
regarded her soft eyes, meek pensiveness, motherly sweetness, and, above all, the refined graceful
dignity that remained to her from the leading station she had occupied. Her gracious respect
towards her clergyman was a contrast as much to the deferential coquetry of his admirers as
to the abruptness of his foe, and her indifference to parish details had even its charm in
a world of fussiness; he did not know himself how far a wish of hers would have led him, and
she was the last person to guess. She viewed him, like all else outside her nursery, as something
out of the focus of her eye; her instinct regarded her clergyman as necessarily good and worthy,
and her ear heard Rachel railing at him; it sounded hard, but it was a pity Rachel should be
vexed and interfered with. In fact, she never thought of the matter at all; it was only part
of that outer kind of dreamy stage-play at Avonmouth, in which she let herself he moved about
at her cousin's bidding. One part of her life had passed away from her, and what remained to
her was among her children; her interests and intelligence seemed contracted to Conrade's horizon,
and as to everything else, she was subdued, gentle, obedient, but slow and obtuse.

Yet, little as he knew it, Mr. Touchett might have even asserted his authority in a still more
trying manner. If the gentle little widow had not cast a halo round her relatives, he could
have preached that sermon upon the home-keeping duties of women, or have been too much offended
to accept any service from the Curtis family; and he could have done without them, for he had
a wide middle-class popularity; his manners with the second-rate society, in which he had been
bred, were just sufficiently superior and flattering to recommend all his best points, and
he obtained plenty of subscriptions from visitors, and of co-operation from inhabitants. Many
a young lady was in a flutter at the approach of the spruce little figure in black, and so
many volunteers were there for parish work, that districts and classes were divided and subdivided,
till it sometimes seemed as if the only difficulty was to find poor people enough who would
submit to serve as the corpus vile for their charitable treatment.

For it was not a really poor population. The men were seafaring, the women lacemaking, and
just well enough off to make dissent doubly attractive as an escape from some of the interfering
almsgiving of the place. Over-visiting, criticism of dress, and inquisitorial examinations
had made more than one Primitive Methodist, and no severe distress had been so recent as to
render the women tolerant of troublesome weekly inspections. The Curtis sisters were, however,
regarded as an exception; they were viewed as real gentlefolks, not only by their own tenants,
but by all who were conscious of their hereditary claims to respect; they did not care whether
hair were long or short, and their benefits were more substantial and reliable than could be
looked for from the casual visitors and petty gentry around, so that sundry houses that were
forbidden ground to district visitors, were ready to grant them a welcome.

One of these belonged to the most able lacemaker in the place, a hard-working woman, who kept
seven little pupils in a sort of cupboard under the staircase, with a window into the back
garden, "because," said she, "they did no work if they looked out into the front, there were
so many gapsies;" these gapsies consisting of the very scanty traffic of the further end of
Mackarel Lane. For ten hours a day did these children work in a space just wide enough for
them to sit, with the two least under the slope of the stairs, permitted no distraction from
their bobbins, but invaded by their mistress on the faintest sound of tongues. Into this hotbed
of sprigs was admitted a child who had been a special favourite at school, an orphan niece
of the head of the establishment. The two brothers had been lost together at sea; and while
the one widow became noted for her lace, the other, a stranger to the art, had maintained herself
by small millinery, and had not sacrificed her little girl to the Moloch of lace, but had kept
her at school to a later age than usual in the place. But the mother died, and the orphan was
at once adopted by the aunt, with the resolve to act the truly kind part by her, and break
her in to lacemaking. That determination was a great blow to the school visitors; the girls
were in general so young, or so stupefied with their work, that an intelligent girl like Lovedy
Kelland was no small treasure to them; there were designs of making her a pupil teacher in
a few years, and offers and remonstrances rained in upon her aunt. But they had no effect;
Mrs. Kelland was persuaded that the child had been spoilt by learning, and in truth poor Lovedy
was a refractory scholar; she was too lively to bear the confinement patiently; her mind was
too much awake not to rebel against the dulness, and her fingers had not been brought into
training early enough. Her incessant tears spoilt her thread, and Mrs. Kelland decided that
"she'd never get her bread till she was broke of her buke;" which breaking was attempted by
a summary pawning of all poor Lovedy's reward books. The poor child confided her loss to her
young lady teacher at the Sunday school; the young lady, being new, young, and inflammable,
reproached Mrs. Kelland with dishonesty and tyranny to the orphan, and in return was nearly
frightened out of her wits by such a scolding as only such a woman as the lace mistress could
deliver. Then Mr. Touchett tried his hand, and though he did not meet with quite so much violence,
all he heard was that she had "given Lovedy the stick for being such a little tod as to complain,
when she knew the money for the bukes was put safe away in her money-box. She was not going
to the Sunday schule again, not she, to tell stories against her best friends!" And when the
next district visitor came that way, the door was shut in her face, with the tract thrown out
at the opening, and an intimation in Mrs. Kelland's shrill voice, that no more bukes were wanted;
she got plenty from Miss Curtis.

These bukes from Miss Curtis were sanatory tracts, which Rachel was constantly bestowing, and
which on Sundays Mrs. Kelland spelt through, with her finger under the line, in happy ignorance
whether the subject were temporal or spiritual, and feeling herself in the exemplary discharge
of a Sunday duty. Moreover, old feudal feeling made Rachel be unmolested when she came down
twice a week, opened the door of the blackhole under the stairs, and read aloud something religious,
something improving, and a bit of a story, following it up by mental arithmetic and a lesson
on objects, which seemed to Mrs. Kelland the most arrant nonsense in the world, and to her
well-broken scholars was about as interesting as the humming of a blue-bottle fly; but it was
poor Lovedy's one enjoyment, though making such havoc of her work that it was always expiated
by extra hours, not on her pillow, but at it.

These visits of Rachel were considered to encourage the Kelland refractoriness, and it was
officially intimated that it would be wise to discontinue them, and that "it was thought better"
to withdraw from Mrs. Kelland all that direct patronage of her trade, by which the ladies had
enabled her to be in some degree independent of the middle-men, who absorbed so much of the
profit from the workers. Grace and Rachel, sufficiently old inhabitants to remember the terrible
wreck that had left her a struggling widow, felt this a hard, not to say a vindictive decision.
They had long been a kind of agents for disposing of her wares at a distance; and, feeling
that the woman had received provocation, Grace was not disposed to give her up, while Rachel
loudly averred that neither Mr. Touchett nor any of his ladies had any right to interfere,
and she should take no notice.

"But," said Grace, "can we run counter to our clergyman's direct wishes?"

"Yes, when he steps out of his province. My dear Grace, you grew up in the days of curatolatry,
but it won't do; men are fallible even when they preach in a surplice, and you may be thankful
to me that you and Fanny are not both led along in a string in the train of Mr. Touchett's
devotees!"

"I wish I knew what was right to do," said Grace, quietly, and she remained wishing it after
Rachel had said a great deal more; but the upshot of it was, that one day when Grace and Fanny
were walking together on the esplanade, they met Mr. Touchett, and Grace said to him, "We have
been thinking it over, and we thought, perhaps, you would not wish us not to give any orders
to Mrs. Kelland. I know she has behaved very ill; but I don't see how she is to get on, and
she has this child on her hands."

"I know," said Mr. Touchett, "but really it was flagrant."

"Oh," said Lady Temple, gently, "I dare say she didn't mean it, and you could not be hard on
a widow."

"Well," said Mr. Touchett, "Miss Brown was very much put out, and--and--it is a great pity
about the child, but I never thought myself that such strong measures would do any good."

"Then you will not object to her being employed?"

"No, not at all. From a distance, it is not the same thing as close at home; it won't be an
example."

"Thank you," said Grace; and "I am so glad," said Lady Temple; and Mr. Touchett went on his
way, lightened of his fear of having let his zealous coadjutors oppress the hard-working, and
far more brightened by the sweet smile of requital, but all the time doubtful whether he had
been weak. As to the victory, Rachel only laughed, and said, "If it made Grace more comfortable,
it was well, except for that acknowledgment of Mr. Touchett's jurisdiction."

A few days after, Rachel made her appearance in Mackerel Lane, and announced her intention
of consulting Ermine Williams under seal of secrecy. "I have an essay that I wish you to judge
of before I send it to the 'Traveller.'"

"Indeed!" said Ermine, her colour rising. "Would it not be better--"

"Oh, I know what you mean, but don't scruple on that score. At my age, with a mother like mine,
it is simply to avoid teasing and excitement that I am silent."

"I was going to say I was hardly a fair--"

"Because of your different opinions? But those go for nothing. You are a worthy antagonist,
and enter into my views as my mother and sister cannot do, even while you oppose them."

"But I don't think I can help you, even if--"

"I don't want help; I only want you to judge of the composition. In fact, I read it to you
that I may hear it myself."

Ermine resigned herself.

"'Curatolatry is a species--'"

"I beg your pardon."

"Curatolatry. Ah! I thought that would attract attention."

"But I am afraid the scholars would fall foul of it."

"Why, have not they just made Mariolatry?"

"Yes; but they are very severe on hybrids between Latin and Greek."

"It is not worth while to boggle at trifles when one has an expressive term," said Rachel;
"if it turns into English, that is all that is wanted."

"Would it not be rather a pity if it should turn into English? Might it not be hard to brand
with a contemptuous name what does more good than harm?"

"That sickly mixture of flirtation and hero worship, with a religious daub as a salve to the
conscience."

"Laugh it down, and what do you leave? In Miss Austen's time silly girls ran to balls after
militiamen, now, if they run to schools and charities more for the curate's sake than they
quite know, is not the alternative better?"

"It is greater humbug," said Rachel. "But I knew you would not agree, at least beforehand,
it is appreciation that I want."

Never did Madame de Genlis make a cleverer hit than in the reading of the Genius Phanor's tragedy
in the Palace of Truth. Comically absurd as the inconsistency is of transporting the lecture
of a Parisian academician into an enchanted palace, full of genii and fairies of the remotest
possible connexion with the Arab jinn, the whole is redeemed by the truth to nature of the
sole dupe in the Palace of Truth being the author reading his own works. Ermine was thinking
of him all the time. She was under none of the constraint of Phanor's auditors, though she
carried a perpetual palace of truth about with her; she would not have had either fears or
compunctions in criticising, if she could. The paper was in the essay style, between argument
and sarcasm, something after the model of the Invalid's Letters; but it was scarcely lightly
touched enough, the irony was wormwood, the gravity heavy and sententious, and where there
was a just thought or happy hit, it seemed to travel in a road-waggon, and be lost in the rumbling
of the wheels. Ermine did not restrain a smile, half of amusement, half of relief, at the self-antidote
the paper contained; but the smile passed with the authoress as a tribute to her satire.

"In this age," she said, "we must use those lighter weapons of wit, or no one will attend."

"Perhaps," said Ermine, "if I approve your object, I should tell you you don't use them lightly."

"Ah! but I know you don't approve it. You are not lay woman enough to be impartial, and you
belong to the age that was trying the experiment of the hierarchy modified: I to that which
has found it will not do. But at least you understand my view; I have made out my case."

"Yes, I understand your view; but--"

"You don't sympathize. Of course not; but when it receives its full weight from the printer's
bands, you will see that it will tell. That bit about the weak tea fumes I thought of afterwards,
and I am afraid I did not read it well."

"I remember it; but forgive me if I say first I think the whole is rather too--too lengthy
to take."

"Oh, that is only because manuscript takes long to read aloud. I counted the words, so I can't
be mistaken, at least I collated twenty lines, and multiplied; and it is not so long as the
Invalid's last letter about systematic reading."

"And then comes my question again, Is good to come of it?"

"That I can't expect you to see at this time; but it is to be the beginning of a series, exposing
the fallacies of woman's life as at present conducted; and out of these I mean to point the
way to more consistent, more independent, better combined exertion. If I can make myself useful
with my pen, it will compensate for the being debarred from so many more obvious outlets. I
should like to have as much influence over people's minds as that Invalid for instance, and
by earnest effort I know I shall attain it."

"I--I--" half-laughing and blushing, "I hope you will, for I know you would wish to use it
for good; but, to speak plainly, I doubt about the success of this effort, or--or if it ought
to succeed."

"Yes, I know you do," said Rachel. "No one ever can judge of a manuscript. You have done all
I wished you to do, and I value your sincerity. Of course I did not expect praise, since the
more telling it is on the opposite side, the less you could like it. I saw you appreciated it."

And Rachel departed, while Rose crept up to her aunt, asking, "Aunt Ermine, why do you look
so very funny? It was very tiresome. Are not you glad it is over?"

"I was thinking, Rose, what a difficult language plain English is sometimes."

"What, Miss Rachel's? I couldn't understand one bit of her long story, except that she did
not like weak tea."

"It was my own that I meant," said Ermine. "But, Rose, always remember that a person who stands
plain speaking from one like me has something very noble and generous in her. Were you here
all the time, Rosie? I don't wonder you were tired."

"No, Aunt Ermine, I went and told Violetta and Augustus a fairy tale out of my own head."

"Indeed; and how did they like it?"

"Violetta looked at me all the time, and Augustus gave three winks, so I think he liked it."

"Appreciated it!" said Aunt Ermine.

CHAPTER IV. THE HERO.

 "And which is Lucy's?  Can it be
  That puny fop, armed cap-a-pie,
  Who loves in the saloon to show
  The arms that never knew a foe."--SCOTT.

"My lady's compliments, ma'am, and she would he much obliged if you would remain till she comes
home," was Coombe's reception of Alison. "She is gone to Avoncester with Master Temple and
Master Francis."

"Gone to Avoncester!" exclaimed Rachel, who had walked from church to Myrtlewood with Alison.

"Mamma is gone to meet the Major!" cried three of the lesser boys, rushing upon them in full
cry; then Leoline, facing round, "Not the major, he is lieutenant-colonel now--Colonel Keith,
hurrah!"

"What--what do you mean? Speak rationally, Leoline, if you can."

"My lady sent a note to the Homestead this morning," explained Coombe. "She heard this morning
that Colonel Keith intended to arrive to-day, and took the young gentlemen with her to meet him."

Rachel could hardly refrain from manifesting her displeasure, and bluntly asked what time Lady
Temple was likely to be at home.

"It depended," Coombe said, "upon the train; it was not certain whether Colonel Keith would
come by the twelve or the two o'clock train."

And Rachel was going to turn sharply round, and dash home with the tidings, when Alison arrested
her with the question--

"And who is Colonel Keith?"

Rachel was too much wrapped up in her own view to hear the trembling of the voice, and answered,
"Colonel Keith! why, the Major! You have not been here so long without hearing of the Major?"

"Yes, but I did not know. Who is he?" And a more observant person would have seen the governess's
gasping effort to veil her eagerness under her wonted self-control.

"Don't you know who the Major is?" shouted Leoline. "He is our military secretary."

"That's the sum total of my knowledge," said Rachel, "I don't understand his influence, nor
know where he was picked up."

"Nor his regiment?"

"He is not a regimental officer; he is on our staff," said Leoline, whose imagination could
not attain to an earlier condition than "on our staff."

"I shall go home, then," said Rachel, "and see if there is any explanation there."

"I shall ask the Major not to let Aunt Rachel come here," observed Hubert, as she departed;
it was well it was not before.

"Leoline," anxiously asked Alison, "can you tell me the Major's name?"

"Colonel Keith--Lieutenant-Colonel Keith," was all the answer.

"I meant his Christian name, my dear."

"Only little boys have Christian names!" they returned, and Alison was forced to do her best
to tame herself and them to the duties of the long day of anticipation so joyous on their part,
so full of confusion and bewildered anxiety on her own. She looked in vain, half stealthily,
as often before, for a recent Army List or Peerage. Long ago she had lost the Honourable Colin
A. Keith from among the officers of the --th Highlanders, and though in the last Peerage she
had laid hands on he was still among the surviving sons of the late Lord Keith, of Gowanbrae,
the date had not gone back far enough to establish that he had not died in the Indian war.
It was fear that predominated with her, there were many moments when she would have given worlds
to be secure that the newcomer was not the man she thought of, who, whether constant or inconstant,
could bring nothing but pain and disturbance to the calm tenour of her sister's life. Everything
was an oppression to her; the children, in their wild, joyous spirits and gladsome inattention,
tried her patience almost beyond her powers; the charge of the younger ones in their mother's
absence was burthensome, and the delay in returning to her sister became well-nigh intolerable,
when she figured to herself Rachel Curtis going down to Ermine with the tidings of Colonel
Keith's arrival, and her own discontent at his influence with her cousin. Would that she had
spoken a word of warning; yet that might have been merely mischievous, for the subject was
surely too delicate for Rachel to broach with so recent a friend. But Rachel had bad taste
for anything! That the little boys did not find Miss Williams very cross that day was an effect
of the long habit of self-control, and she could hardly sit still under the additional fret,
when, just as tea was spread for the school-room party, in walked Miss Rachel, and sat herself
down, in spite of Hubert, who made up a most coaxing, entreating face, as he said, "Please,
Aunt Rachel, doesn't Aunt Grace want you very much!"

"Not at all. Why, Hubert?"

"Oh, if you would only go away, and not spoil our fun when the Major comes."

For once Rachel did laugh, but she did not take the hint, and Alison obtained only the satisfaction
of hearing that she had at least not been in Mackarel Lane. The wheels sounded on the gravel,
out rushed the boys; Alison and Rachel sat in strange, absolute silence, each forgetful of
the other, neither guarding her own looks, nor remarking her companion's. Alison's lips were
parted by intense listening; Rachel's teeth were set to receive her enemy. There was a chorus
of voices in the hall, and something about tea and coming in warned both to gather up their
looks before Lady Temple had opened the door, and brought in upon them not one foe, but two!
Was Rachel seeing double? Hardly that, for one was tall, bald, and bearded, not dangerously
young, but on that very account the more dangerously good-looking; and the other was almost
a boy, slim and light, just of the empty young officer type. Here, too, was Fanny, flushed,
excited, prettier and brighter than Rachel had seen her at all, waving an introduction with
head and hand; and the boys hanging round the Major with deafening exclamations of welcome,
in which they were speedily joined by the nursery detachment. Those greetings, those observations
on growth and looks, those glad, eager questions and answers, were like the welcome of an integral
part of the family; it was far more intimate and familiar than had been possible with the Curtises
after the long separation, and it was enough to have made the two spectators feel out of place,
if such a sensation had been within Rachel's capacity, or if Alison had not been engaged with
the tea. Lady Temple made a few explanations, sotto voce, to Alison, whom she always treated
as though in dread of not being sufficiently considerate. "I do hope the children have been
good; I knew you would not mind; I could not wait to see you, or I should have been too late
to meet the train, and then he would have come by the coach; and it is such a raw east wind.
He must be careful in this climate."

"How warm and sunshiny it has been all day," said Rachel, by way of opposition to some distant
echo of this whisper.

"Sunshiny, but treacherous," answered Colonel Keith; "there are cold gusts round corners. This
must be a very sheltered nook of the coast."

"Quite a different zone from Avoncester," said the youth.

"Yes, delightful. I told you it was just what would suit you," added Fanny, to the colonel.

"Some winds are very cold here," interposed Rachel. "I always pity people who are imposed upon
to think it a Mentone near home. They are choking our churchyard."

"Very inconsiderate of them," muttered the young man.

"But what made you come home so late, Fanny?" said Rachel.

Alison suspected a slight look of wonder on the part of both the officers at hearing their
general's wife thus called to account; but Fanny, taking it as a matter of course, answered,
"We found that the-th was at Avoncester. I had no idea of it, and they did not know I was here;
so I went to call upon Mrs. Hammond, and Colonel Keith went to look for Alick, and we have
brought him home to dine."

Fanny took it for granted that Rachel must know who Alick was, but she was far from doing so,
though she remembered that the --th had been her uncle's regiment, and had been under Sir Stephen
Temple's command in India at the time of the mutiny. The thought of Fanny's lapsing into military
society was shocking to her. The boys were vociferating about boats, ponies, and all that had
been deferred till the Major's arrival, and he was answering them kindly, but hushing the extra
outcry less by word than sign, and his own lowered voice and polished manner--a manner that
excessively chafed her as a sort of insult to the blunt, rapid ways that she considered as
sincere and unaffected, a silkiness that no doubt had worked on the honest, simple general,
as it was now working on the weak young widow. Anything was better than leaving her to such
influence, and in pursuance of the intention that Rachel had already announced at home, she
invited herself to stay to dinner; and Fanny eagerly thanked her, for making it a little less
dull for Colonel Keith and Alick. It was so good to come down and help. Certainly Fanny was
an innocent creature, provided she was not spoilt, and it was a duty to guard her innocence.

Alison Williams escaped to her home, sure of nothing but that her sister must not be allowed
to share her uncertainties; and Lady Temple and her guests sat down to dinner. Rachel meant
to have sat at the bottom and carved, as belonging to the house; but Fanny motioned the Colonel
to the place, observing, "It is so natural to see you there! One only wants poor Captain Dent
at the other end. Do you know whether he has his leave?"

Wherewith commenced a discussion of military friends--who had been heard of from Australia,
who had been met in England, who was promoted, who married, who retired, &c., and all the quarters
of the-th since its return from India two years ago; Fanny eagerly asking questions and making
remarks, quite at home and all animation, absolutely a different being from the subdued, meek
little creature that Rachel had hitherto seen. Attempts were made to include Miss Curtis in
the conversation by addressing anecdotes to her, and asking if she knew the places named; but
she had been to none, and the three old friends quickly fell into the swing of talk about what
interested them. Once, however, she came down on them with, "What conclusion have you formed
upon female emigration?"

    "'His sister she went beyond the seas,
      And died an old maid among black savagees.'

"That's the most remarkable instance of female emigration on record, isn't it?" observed Alick.

"What; her dying an old maid?" said Colonel Keith. "I am not sure. Wholesale exportations of
wives are spoiling the market."

"I did not mean marriage," said Rachel, stoutly. "I am particularly anxious to know whether
there is a field open to independent female labour."

"All the superior young women seemed to turn nurserymaids," said the Colonel.

"Oh," interposed Fanny, "do you remember that nice girl of ours who would marry that Orderly-Sergeant
O'Donoghoe? I have had a letter from her in such distress."

"Of course, the natural termination," said Alick, in his lazy voice.

"And I thought you would tell me how to manage sending her some help," proceeded Fanny.

"I could have helped you, Fanny. Won't an order do it?"

"Not quite," said Fanny, a shade of a smile playing on her lip. "It is whether to send it through
one of the officers or not. If Captain Lee is with the regiment, I know he would take care
of it for her."

So they plunged into another regiment, and Rachel decided that nothing was so wearisome as
to hear triflers talk shop.

There was no opportunity of calling Fanny to order after dinner, for she went off on her progress
to all the seven cribs, and was only just returning from them when the gentlemen came in, and
then she made room for the younger beside her on the sofa, saying, "Now, Alick, I do so want
to hear about poor, dear little Bessie;" and they began so low and confidentially, that Rachel
wondered if her alarms wore to be transfered from the bearded colonel to the dapper boy, or
if, in very truth, she must deem poor Fanny a general coquette. Besides, a man must be contemptible
who wore gloves at so small a party, when she did not.

She had been whiling away the time of Fanny's absence by looking over the books on the table,
and she did not regard the present company sufficiently to desist on their account. Colonel
Keith began to turn over some numbers of the "Traveller" that lay near him, and presently looked
up, and said, "Do you know who is the writer of this?"

"What is it? Ah! one of the Invalid's essays. They strike every one; but I fancy the authorship
is a great secret."

"You do not know it?"

"No, I wish I did. Which of them are you reading? 'Country Walks.' That is not one that I care
about, it is a mere hash of old recollections; but there are some very sensible and superior
ones, so that I have heard it sometimes doubted whether they are man's or woman's writing.
For my part, I think them too earnest to be a man's; men always play with their subject."

"Oh, yes," said Fanny, "I am sure only a lady could have written anything so sweet as that
about flowers in a sick-room; it so put me in mind of the lovely flowers you used to bring
me one at a time, when I was ill at Cape Town."

There was no more sense to be had after those three once fell upon their reminiscences.

That night, after having betrayed her wakefulness by a movement in her bed, Alison Williams
heard her sister's voice, low and steady, saying, "Ailie, dear, be it what it may, guessing
is worse than certainty."

"Oh, Ermine, I hoped--I know nothing--I have nothing to tell."

"You dread something," said Ermine; "you have been striving for unconcern all the evening,
my poor dear, but surely you know, Ailie, that nothing is so bad while we share it."

"And I have frightened you about nothing."

"Nothing! nothing about Edward?"

"Oh, no, no!"

"And no one has made you uncomfortable?"

"No."

"Then there is only one thing that it can be, Ailie, and you need not fear to tell me that.
I always knew that if he lived I must be prepared for it, and you would not have hesitated
to tell me of his death."

"It is not that, indeed it is not, Ermine, it is only this--that I found to-day that Lady Temple's
major has the same name."

"But you said she was come home. You must have seen him."

"Yes, but I should not know him. I had only seen him once, remember, twelve years ago, and
when I durst not look at him."

"At least," said Ermine, quickly, "you can tell me what you saw to-day."

"A Scotch face, bald head, dark beard, grizzled hair."

"Yes I am grey, and he was five years older; but he used not to have a Scotch face. Can you
tell me about his eyes?"

"Dark," I think.

"They were very dark blue, almost black. Time and climate must have left them alone. You may
know him by those eyes, Ailie. And you could not make out anything about him?"

"No, not even his Christian name nor his regiment. I had only the little ones and Miss Rachel
to ask, and they knew nothing. I wanted to keep this from you till I was sure, but you always
find me out."

"Do you think I couldn't see the misery you were in all the evening, poor child? But now you
have had it out, sleep, and don't be distressed."

"But, Ermine, if you--"

"My dear, I am thankful that nothing is amiss with you or Edward. For the rest, there is nothing
but patience. Now, not another word; you must not lose your sleep, nor take away my chance of any."

How much the sisters slept they did not confide to one another, but when they rose, Alison
shook her head at her sister's heavy eyelids, and Ermine retorted with a reproachful smile
at certain dark tokens of sleeplessness under Alison's eyes.

"No, not the flowered flimsiness, please," she said, in the course of her toilette, "let me
have the respectable grey silk." And next she asked for a drawer, whence she chose a little
Nuremberg horn brooch for her neck. "I know it is very silly," she said, "but I can't quite
help it. Only one question, Ailie, that I thought of too late. Did he hear your name?"

"I think not, Lady Temple named nobody. But why did you not ask me last night?"

"I thought beginning to talk again would destroy your chance of sleep, and we had resolved
to stop."

"And, Ermine, if it be, what shall I do?"

"Do as you feel right at the moment," said Ermine, after a moment's pause. "I cannot tell how
it may be. I have been thinking over what you told me about the Major and Lady Temple."

"Oh, Ermine, what a reproof this is for that bit of gossip."

"Not at all, my dear, the warning may be all the better for me," said Ermine, with a voice
less steady than her words. "It is not what, under the circumstances, I could think likely
in the Colin whom I knew; but were it indeed so, then, Ailie, you had better say nothing about
me, unless he found you out. We would get employment elsewhere."

"And I must leave you to the suspense all day."

"Much better so. The worst thing we could do would be to go on talking about it. It is far
better for me to be left with my dear little unconscious companion."

Alison tried to comfort herself with this belief through the long hours of the morning, during
which she only heard that mamma and Colonel Keith were gone to the Homestead, and she saw no
one till she came forth with her troop to the midday meal.

And there, at sight of Lady Temple's content and calm, satisfied look, as though she were once
more in an accustomed atmosphere, and felt herself and the boys protected, and of the Colonel's
courteous attention to her and affectionate authority towards her sons, it was an absolute
pang to recognise the hue of eye described by Ermine; but still Alison tried to think them
generic Keith eyes, till at length, amid the merry chatter of her pupils, came an appeal to
"Miss Williams," and then came a look that thrilled through her, the same glance that she had
met for one terrible moment twelve years before, and renewing the same longing to shrink from
all sight or sound. How she kept her seat and continued to attend to the children she never
knew, but the voices sounded like a distant Babel; and she did not know whether she were most
relieved, disappointed, or indignant when she left the dining-room to take the boys for their
walk. Oh, that Ermine could be hid from all knowledge of what would be so much harder to bear
than the death in which she had long believed!

Harder to bear? Yes, Ermine had already been passing through a heart
sickness that made the morning like an age. Her resolute will had
struggled hard for composure, cheerfulness, and occupation; but the
little watchful niece had seen through the endeavour, and had made her
own to the sleepless night and the headache. The usual remedy was a
drive in a wheeled chair, and Rose was so urgent to be allowed to go and
order one, that Ermine at last yielded, partly because she had hardly
energy enough to turn her refusal graciously, partly because she would
not feel herself staying at home for the vague hope and when the child
was out of sight, she had the comfort of clasping her hands, and ceasing
to restrain her countenance, while she murmured, "Oh, Colin, Colin, are
you what you were twelve years back?
                    Calm me, my God, and keep me calm,
                      Soft resting on Thy breast;
                    Soothe me with holy hymn and psalm,
                      And bid my spirit rest.'"

CHAPTER V. MILITARY SOCIETY.

Rose found the wheeled chair, to which her aunt gave the preference, was engaged, and shaking
her little discreet head at "the shakey chair" and "the stuffy chair," she turned pensively
homeward, and was speeding down Mackarel Lane, when she was stayed by the words, "My little
girl!" and the grandest and most bearded gentleman she had ever seen, demanded, "Can you tell
me if Miss Williams lives here?"

"My aunt?" exclaimed Rose, gazing up with her pretty, frightened-fawn look.

"Indeed!" he exclaimed, looking eagerly at her, "then you are the child of a very old friend
of mine! Did you never hear him speak of his old school-fellow, Colin Keith?"

"Papa is away," said Rose, turning back her neck to get a full view of his face from under
the brim of her hat.

"'Will you run on and ask your aunt if she would like to see me?" he added.

Thus it was that Ermine heard the quick patter of the child's steps, followed by the manly
tread, and the words sounded in her ears, "Aunt Ermine, there's a gentleman, and he has a great
beard, and he says he is papa's old friend! And here he is."

Ermine's beaming eyes as absolutely met the new comer as though she had sprung forward. "I
thought you would come," she said, in a voice serene with exceeding bliss.

"I have found you at last," as their hands clasped; and they gazed into each other's faces
in the untroubled repose of the meeting, exclusive of all else.

Ermine was the first to break silence. "Oh, Colin, you look worn and altered."

"You don't; you have kept your sunbeam face for me with the dear brown glow I never thought
to have seen again. Why did they tell me you were an invalid, Ermine?"

"Have you not seen Alison?" she asked, supposing he would have known all.

"I saw her, but did not hear her name, till just now at luncheon, when our looks met, and I
saw it was not another disappointment."

"And she knows you are come to me?"

"It was not in me to speak to her till I had recovered you! One can forgive, but not forget."

"You will do more when you know her, and how she has only lived and worked for me, dear Ailie,
and suffered far more than I--"

"While I was suffering from being unable to do anything but live for you," he repeated, taking
up her words; "but that is ended now--" and as she made a negative motion of her head, "have
you not trusted to me?"

"I have thought you not living," she said; "the last I know was your letter to dear Lady Alison,
written from the hospital at Cape Town, after your wound. She was ill even when it came, and
she could only give it to Ailie for me."

"Dear good aunt, she got into trouble with all the family for our sake; and when she was gone
no one would give me any tidings of you."

"It was her last disappointment that you were not sent home on sick leave. Did you get well
too fast?"

"Not exactly; but my father, or rather, I believe, my brother, intimated that I should be welcome
only if I had laid aside a certain foolish fancy, and as lying on my back had not conduced
to that end, I could only say I would stay where I was."

"And was it worse for you? I am sure, in spite of all that tanned skin, that your health has
suffered. Ought you to have come home?"

"No, I do not know that London surgeons could have got at the ball," he said, putting his hand
on his chest, "and it gives me no trouble in general. I was such a spectacle when I returned
to duty, that good old Sir Stephen Temple, always a proverb for making his staff a refuge for
the infirm, made me his aide-de-camp, and was like a father to me."

"Now I see why I never could find your name in any list of the officers in the moves of the
regiment! I gave you quite up when I saw no Keith among those that came home from India. I
did believe then that you were the Colonel Alexander Keith whose death I had seen mentioned,
though I had long trusted to his not being honourable, nor having your first name."

"Ah! he succeeded to the command after Lady Temple's father. A kind friend to me he was, and
he left me in charge of his son and daughter. A very good and gallant fellow is that young
Alick. I must bring him to see you some day--"

"Oh! I saw his name; I remember! I gloried in the doings of a Keith; but I was afraid he had
died, as there was no such name with the regiment when it came home."

"No, he was almost shattered to pieces; but Sir Stephen sent him up the hills to be nursed
by Lady Temple and her mother, and he was sent home as soon as he could be moved. I was astonished
to see how entirely he had recovered."

"Then you went through all that Indian war?"

"Yes; with Sir Stephen."

"You must show me all your medals! How much you have to tell me! And then--?"

"Just when the regiment was coming home, my dear old chief was appointed to the command in
Australia, and insisted on my coming with him as military secretary. He had come to depend
on me so much that I could not well leave him; and in five years there was the way to promotion
and to claiming you at once. We were just settled there, when what I heard made me long to
have decided otherwise, but I could not break with him then. I wrote to Edward, but had my
letter returned to me."

"No wonder; Edward was abroad, all connexion broken."

"I wrote to Beauchamp, and he knew nothing, and I could only wait till my chief's time should
be up. You know how it was cut short, and how the care of the poor little widow detained me
till she was fit for the voyage. I came and sought you in vain in town. I went home, and found
my brother lonely and dispirited. He has lost his son, his daughters are married, and he and
I are all the brothers left out of the six! He was urgent that I should come and live with
him and marry. I told him I would, with all my heart, when I had found you, and he saw I was
too much in earnest to be opposed. Then I went to Beauchamp, but Harry knew nothing about any
one. I tried to find out your sister and Dr. Long, but heard they were gone to Belfast."

"Yes, they lost a good deal in the crash, and did not like retrenching among their neighbours,
so they went to Ireland, and there they have a flourishing practice."

"I thought myself on my way there," he said, smiling; "only I had first to settle Lady Temple,
little guessing who was her treasure of a governess! Last night I had nearly opened, on another
false scent; I fell in with a description that I could have sworn was yours, of the heather
behind the parsonage. I made a note of the publisher in case all else had failed."

"I'm glad you knew the scent of the thyme!"

"Then it was no false scent?"

"One must live, and I was thankful to do anything to lighten Ailie's burthen. I wrote down
that description that I might live in the place in fancy; and one day, when the contribution
was wanted and I was hard up for ideas, I sent it, though I was loth to lay open that bit of
home and heart."

"Well it might give me the sense of meeting you! And in other papers of the series I traced
your old self more ripened."

"The editor was a friend of Edward's, and in our London days he asked me to write letters on
things in general, and when I said I saw the world through a key-hole, he answered that a circumscribed
view gained in distinctness. Most kind and helpful he has been, and what began between sport
and need to say out one's mind has come to be a resource for which we are very thankful. He
sends us books for reviewal, and that is pleasant and improving, not to say profitable."

"Little did I think you were in such straits!" he said, stroking the child's head, and waiting
as though her presence were a restraint on inquiries, but she eagerly availed herself of the
pause. "Aunt Ermine, please what shall I say about the chairs? Will you have the nice one and
Billy when they come home? I was to take the answer, only you did talk so that I could not ask!"

"Thank you, my dear; I don't want chairs nor anything else while I can talk so," she answered,
smiling. "You had better take a run in the garden when you come back;" and Rose replied with
a nod of assent that made the colonel smile and say, "Good-bye then, my sweet Lady Discretion,
some day we will be better acquainted."

"Dear child," said Ermine, "she is our great blessing, and some day I trust will be the same
to her dear father. Oh, Colin! it is too much to hope that you have not believed what you must
have heard! And yet you wrote to him."

"Nay, I could not but feel great distrust of what I heard, since I was also told that his sisters
were unconvinced; and besides, I had continually seen him at school the victim of other people's
faults."

"This is best of all," exclaimed Ermine, with glistening eyes, and hand laid upon his; "it
is the most comfortable word I have heard since it happened. Yes, indeed, many a time before
I saw you, had I heard of 'Keith' as the friend who saw him righted. Oh, Colin! thanks, thanks
for believing in him more than for all!"

"Not believing, but knowing," he answered--"knowing both you and Edward. Besides, is it not
almost invariable that the inventor is ruined by his invention--a Prospero by nature?"

"It was not the invention," she answered; "that throve as long as my father lived."

"Yes, he was an excellent man of business."

"And he thought the concern so secure that there was no danger in embarking all the available
capital of the family in it, and it did bring us in a very good income."

"I remember that it struck me that the people at home would find that they had made a mistake
after all, and missed a fortune for me! It was an invention for diminishing the fragility of
glass under heat; was it not?"

"Yes, and the manufacture was very prosperous, so that my father was quite at ease about us.
After his death we made a home for Edward in London, and looked after him when he used to be
smitten with some new idea and forgot all sublunary matters. When he married we went to live
at Richmond, and had his dear little wife very much with us, for she was a delicate tender
creature, half killed by London. In process of time he fell in with a man named Maddox, plausible
and clever, who became a sort of manager, especially while Edward was in his trances of invention;
and at all times knew more about his accounts than he did himself. Nothing but my father's
authority had ever made him really look into them, and this man took them all off his hands.
There was a matter about the glass that Edward was bent on ascertaining, and he went to study
the manufacture in Bohemia, taking his wife with him, and leaving Rose with us. Shortly after,
Dr. Long and Harry Beauchamp received letters asking for a considerable advance, to be laid
out on the materials that this improvement would require. Immediately afterwards came the crash."

"Exactly what I heard. Of course the letters were written in ignorance of what was impending."

"Colin, they were never written at all by Edward! He denied all knowledge of them. Alison saw
Dr. Long's, most ingeniously managed--foreign paper and all--but she could swear to the forgery--"

"You suspect this Maddox?"

"Most strongly! He knew the state of the business; Edward did not. And he had a correspondence
that would have enabled so ingenious a person easily to imitate Edward's letters. I do not
wonder at their having been taken in; but how Julia--how Harry Beauchamp could believe--what
they do believe. Oh, Colin! it will not do to think about it!"

"Oh, that I had been at home! Were no measures taken?"

"Alas! alas! we urged Edward to come home and clear himself; but that poor little wife of his
was terrified beyond measure, imagined prisons and trials. She was unable to move, and he could
not leave her; she took from him an unhappy promise not to put himself in what she fancied
danger from the law, and then died, leaving him a baby that did not live a day. He was too
broken-hearted to care for vindicating himself, and no one-no one would do it for him!"

Colonel Keith frowned and clenched the hand that lay in his grasp till it was absolute pain,
but pain that was a relief to feel. "Madness, madness!" he said. "Miserable! But how was it
at home--? Did this Maddox stand his ground?"

"Yes, if he had fled, all would have been clear, but he doctored the accounts his own way,
and quite satisfied Dr. Long and Harry. He showed Edward's receipt for the £6000 that had been
advanced, and besides, there was a large sum not accounted for, which was, of course, supposed
to have been invested abroad by Edward--some said gambled away--as if he had not had a regular
hatred of all sorts of games."

"Edward with his head in the clouds! One notion is as likely as the other.--Then absolutely
nothing was done!"

"Nothing! The bankruptcy was declared, the whole affair broken up; and certainly if every one
had not known Edward to be the most heedless of men, the confusion would have justified them
in thinking him a dishonest one. Things had been done in his name by Maddox that might have
made a stranger think him guilty of the rest, but to those who had ever known his abstraction,
and far more his real honour and uprightness, nothing could have been plainer."

"It all turned upon his absence."

"Yes, he must have borne the brunt of what had been done in his name, I know; that would have
been bad enough, but in a court of justice, his whole character would have been shown, and
besides, a prosecution for forgery of his receipt would have shown what Maddox was, sufficiently
to exculpate him."

"And you say the losers by the deception would not believe in it?"

"No, they only shook their heads at our weak sisterly affection."

"I wish I could see one of those letters. Where is Maddox now?"

"I cannot tell. He certainly did not go away immediately after the settlement of accounts,
but it has not been possible to us to keep up a knowledge of his movements, or something might
have turned up to justify Edward. Oh, what it is to be helpless women! You are the very first
person, Colin, who has not looked at me pityingly, like a creature to be forborne with an undeniable
delusion!"

"They must be very insolent people, then, to look at that brow and eyes, and think even sisterly
love could blind them," he said. "Yes, Ermine, I was certain that unless Edward were more changed
than I could believe, there must be some such explanation. You have never seen him since?"

"No, he was too utterly broken by the loss of his wife to feel anything else. For a long time
we heard nothing, and that was the most dreadful time of all! Then he wrote from a little German
town, where he was getting his bread as a photographer's assistant. And since that he has cast
about the world, till just now he has some rather interesting employment at the mines in the
Oural Mountains, the first thing he has really seemed to like or care for."

"The Oural Mountains! that is out of reach. I wish I could see him. One might find some means
of clearing him. What directed your suspicion to Maddox?"

"Chiefly that the letters professed to have been sent in a parcel to him to be posted from
the office. If it had been so, Edward and Lucy would certainly have written to us at the same
time. I could have shown, too, that Maddox had written to me the day before to ascertain where
Edward was, so as to be sure of the date. It was a little country village, and I made a blunder
in copying the spelling from Lucy's writing. Ailie found that very blunder repeated in Dr.
Long's letter, and we showed him that Edward did not write it so. Besides, before going abroad,
Edward had lost the seal-ring with his crest, which you gave him. You remember the Saxon's head?"

"I remember! You all took it much to heart that the engraver had made it a Saracen's head,
and not a long-haired Saxon."

"Well, Edward had renewed the ring, and taken care to make it a Saxon. Now Ailie could get
no one to believe her, but she is certain that the letter was sealed with the old Saracen not
the new Saxon. But--but--if you had but been there--"

"Tell me you wished for me, Ermine."

"I durst not wish anything about you," she said, looking up through a mist of tears.

"And you, what fixed you here?"

"An old servant of ours had married and settled here, and had written to us of her satisfaction
in finding that the clergyman was from Hereford. We thought he would recommend Ailie as daily
governess to visitors, and that Sarah would be a comfortable landlady. It has answered very
well; Rose deserves her name far more than when we brought her here, and it is wonderful how
much better I have been since doctors have become a mere luxury."

"Do you, can you really mean that you are supporting yourselves?"

"All but twenty-five pounds a year, from a legacy to us, that Mr. Beauchamp would not let them
touch. But it has been most remarkable, Colin," she said, with the dew in her eyes, "how we
have never wanted our daily bread, and how happy we have been! If it had not been for Edward,
this would in many ways have been our happiest time. Since the old days the little frets have
told less, and Ailie has been infinitely happier and brighter since she has had to work instead
of only to watch me. Ah, Colin, must I not own to having been happy? Indeed it was very much
because peace had come when the suspense had sunk into belief that I might think of you as--,
where you would not be grieved by the sight of what I am now--"

As she spoke, a knock, not at the house, but at the room door, made them both start, and impel
their chairs to a more ordinary distance, just as Rachel Curtis made her entrance, extremely
amazed to find, not Mr. Touchett, but a much greater foe and rival in that unexpected quarter.
Ermine, the least disconcerted, was the first to speak. "You are surprised to find a visitor
here," she said, "and indeed only now, did we find out that 'our military secretary,' as your
little cousins say, was our clear old squire's nephew."

There was a ring of gladness in the usually patient voice that struck even Rachel, though she
was usually too eager to be observant, but she was still unready with talk for the occasion,
and Ermine continued: "We had heard so much of the Major before-hand, that we had a sort of
Jupiter-like expectation of the coming man. I am not sure that I shall not go on expecting
a mythic major!"

Rachel, never understanding playfulness, thought this both audacious and unnecessary, and if
it had come from any one else, would have administered a snub, but she felt the invalid sacred
from her weapons.

"Have you ever seen the boys?" asked Colonel Keith. "I am rather proud of Conrade, my pupil;
he is so chivalrous towards his mother."

"Alison has brought down a division or two to show me. How much alike they are."

"Exactly alike, and excessively unruly and unmanageable," said Rachel. "I pity your sister."

"More unmanageable in appearance than in reality," said the colonel: "there's always a little
trial of strength against the hand over them, and they yield when they find it is really a
hand. They were wonderfully good and considerate when it was an object to keep the house quiet."

Rachel would not encourage him to talk of Lady Temple, so she turned to Ermine on the business
that had brought her, collecting and adapting old clothes for emigrants.--It was not exactly
gentlemen's pastime, and Ermine tried to put it aside and converse, but Rachel never permitted
any petty consideration to interfere with a useful design, and as there was a press of time
for the things, she felt herself justified in driving the intruder off the field and outstaying
him. She succeeded; he recollected the desire of the boys that he should take them to inspect
the pony at the "Jolly Mariner," and took leave with--"I shall see you to-morrow."

"You knew him all the time!" exclaimed Rachel, pausing in her unfolding of the Master Temples'
ship wardrobe. "Why did you not say so?"

"We did not know his name. He was always the 'Major.'"

"Who, and what is he?" demanded Rachel, as she knelt before her victim, fixing those great
prominent eyes, so like those of Red Riding Hood's grandmother, that Ermine involuntarily gave
a backward impulse to her wheeled chair, as she answered the readiest thing that occurred to
her,--"He is brother to Lord Keith of Gowan-brae."

"Oh," said Rachel, kneeling on meditatively, "that accounts for it. So much the worse. The
staff is made up of idle honourables."

"Quoth the 'Times!'" replied Ermine; "but his appointment began on account of a wound, and
went on because of his usefulness--"

"Wounded! I don't like wounded heroes," said Rachel; "people make such a fuss with them that
they always get spoilt."

"This was nine years ago, so you may forget it if you like," said Ermine, diversion suppressing
displeasure.

"And what is your opinion of him?" said Rachel, edging forward on her knees, so as to bring
her inquisitorial eyes to bear more fully.

"I had not seen him for twelve years," said Ermine, rather faintly.

"He must have had a formed character when you saw him last. The twelve years before five-and-forty
don't alter the nature."

"Five-and-forty! Illness and climate have told, but I did not think it was so much. He is only
thirty-six--"

"That is not what I care about," said Rachel, "you are both of you so cautious that you tell
me what amounts to nothing! You should consider how important it is to me to know something
about the person in whose power my cousin's affairs are left."

"Have you not sufficient guarantee in the very fact of her husband's confidence?"

"I don't know. A simple-hearted old soldier always means a very foolish old man."

"Witness the Newcomes," said Ermine, who, besides her usual amusement in tracing Rachel's dicta
to their source, could only keep in her indignation by laughing.

"General observation," said Rachel, not to be turned from her purpose. "I am not foolishly
suspicious, but it is not pleasant to see great influence and intimacy without some knowledge
of the person exercising it."

"I think," said Ermine, bringing herself with difficulty to answer quietly, "that you can hardly
understand the terms they are on without having seen how much a staff officer becomes one of
the family."

"I suppose much must be allowed for the frivolity and narrowness of a military set in a colony.
Imagine my one attempt at rational conversation last night. Asking his views on female emigration,
absolutely he had none at all; he and Fanny only went off upon a nursemaid married to a sergeant!"

"Perhaps the bearings of the question would hardly suit mixed company."

"To be sure there was a conceited young officer there; for as ill luck will have it, my uncle's
old regiment is quartered at Avoncester, and I suppose they will all be coming after Fanny.
It is well they are no nearer, and as this colonel says he is going to Belfast in a day or
two, there will not be much provocation to them to come here. Now this great event of the Major's
coming is over, we will try to put Fanny upon a definite system, and I look to you and your
sister as a great assistance to me, in counteracting the follies and nonsenses that her situation
naturally exposes her to. I have been writing a little sketch of the dangers of indecision,
that I thought of sending to the 'Traveller.' It would strike Fanny to see there what I so
often tell her; but I can't get an answer about my paper on 'Curatocult,' as you made me call it."

"Did I!"

"You said the other word was of two languages. I can't think why they don't insert it; but
in the meantime I will bring down my 'Human Reeds,' and show them to you. I have only an hour's
work on them; so I'll come to-morrow afternoon."

"I think Colonel Keith talked of calling again--thank you," suggested Ermine in despair.

"Ah, yes, one does not want to be liable to interruptions in the most interesting part. When
he is gone to Belfast--"

"Yes, when he is gone to Belfast!" repeated Ermine, with an irresistible gleam of mirth about
her lips and eyes, and at that moment Alison made her appearance. The looks of the sisters
met, and read one another so far as to know that the meeting was over, and for the rest they
endured, while Rachel remained, little imagining the trial her presence had been to Alison's
burning heart--sick anxiety and doubt. How could it be well? Let him be loveable, let him be
constant, that only rendered Ermine's condition the more pitiable, and the shining glance of
her eyes was almost more than Alison could bear. So happy as the sisters had been together,
so absolutely united, it did seem hard to disturb that calm life with hopes and agitations
that must needs be futile; and Alison, whose whole life and soul were in her sister, could
not without a pang see that sister's heart belonging to another, and not for hopeful joy, but
pain and grief. The yearning of jealousy was sternly reproved and forced down, and told that
Ermine had long been Colin Keith's, that the perpetrator of the evil had the least right of
any one to murmur that her own monopoly of her sister was interfered with; that she was selfish,
unkind, envious; that she had only to hate herself and pray for strength to bear the punishment,
without alloying Ermine's happiness while it lasted. How it could be so bright Alison knew
not, but so it was she recognised by every tone of the voice, by every smile on the lip, by
even the upright vigour with which Ermine sat in her chair and undertook Rachel's tasks of
needlework.

And yet, when the visitor rose at last to go, Alison was almost unwilling to be alone with
her sister, and have that power of sympathy put to the test by those clear eyes that were wont
to see her through and through. She went with Rachel to the door, and stood taking a last instruction,
hearing it not at all, but answering, and relieved by the delay, hardly knowing whether to
be glad or not that when she returned Rose was leaning on the arm of her aunt's chair with
the most eager face. But Rose was to be no protection, for what was passing between her and
her aunt?

"O auntie, I am go glad he is coming back. He is just like the picture you drew of Robert Bruce
for me. And he is so kind. I never saw any gentleman speak to you in such: a nice soft voice."

Alison had no difficulty in smiling as Ermine stroked the child's hair, kissed her, and looked
up with an arch, blushing, glittering face that could not have been brighter those long twelve
years ago.

And then Rose turned round, impatient to tell her other aunt her story. "O aunt Ailie, we have
had such a gentleman here, with a great brown beard like a picture. And he is papa's old friend,
and kissed me because I am papa's little girl, and I do like him so very much. I went where
I could look at him in the garden, when you sent me out, aunt Ermine."

"You did, you monkey?" said Ermine, laughing, and blushing again. "What will you do if I send
you out next time? No, I won't then, my dear, for all the time, I should like you to see him
and know him."

"Only, if you want to talk of anything very particular," observed Rose.

"I don't think I need ask many questions," said Alison, smiling being happily made very easy
to her. "Dear Ermine, I see you are perfectly satisfied--"

"O Ailie, that is no word for it! Not only himself, but to find him loving Rose for her father's
sake, undoubting of him through all. Ailie, the thankfulness of it is more than one can bear."

"And he is the same?" said Alison.

"The same--no, not the same. It is more, better, or I am able to feel it more. It was just
like the morrow of the day he walked down the lane with me and gathered honeysuckles, only
the night between has been a very, very strange time."

"I hope the interruption did not come very soon."

"I thought it was directly, but it could not have been so soon, since you are come home. We
had just had time to tell what we most wanted to know, and I know a little more of what he
is. I feel as if it were not only Colin again, but ten times Colin. O Ailie, it must be a little
bit like the meetings in heaven!"

"I believe it is so with you," said Alison, scarcely able to keep the tears from her eyes.

"After sometimes not daring to dwell on him, and then only venturing because I thought he must
be dead, to have him back again with the same looks, only deeper--to find that he clung to
those weeks so long ago, and, above all, that there was not one cloud, one doubt about the
troubles--Oh, it is too, too much."

Ermine lent back with clasped hands. She was like one weary with happiness, and lain to rest
in the sense of newly-won peace. She said little more that evening, and if spoken to, seemed
like one wakened out of a dream, so that more than once she laughed at herself, begged her
sister's pardon, and said that it seemed to her that she could not hear anything for the one
glad voice that rang in her ear, "Colin is come home." That was sufficient for her, no need
for any other sympathy, felt Alison, with another of those pangs crushed down. Then wonder
came--whether Ermine could really contemplate the future, or if it were absolutely lost in
the present?

Colonel Keith went back to be seized by Conrade and Francis, and walked off to the pony inspection,
the two boys, on either side of him, communicating to him the great grievance of living in
a poky place like this, where nobody had ever been in the army, nor had a bit of sense, and
Aunt Rachel was always bothering, and trying to make mamma think that Con told stories.

"I don't mind that," said Conrade, stoutly; "let her try!"

"Oh, but she wanted mamma to shut you up," added Francis.

"Well, and mamma knows better," said Conrade, "and it made her leave off teaching me, so it
was lucky. But I don't mind that; only don't you see, Colonel, they don't know how to treat
mamma! They go and bully her, and treat her like--like a subaltern, till I hate the very sight
of it."

"My boy," said the Colonel, who had been giving only half attention; "you must make up your
mind to your mother not being at the head of everything, as she used to be in your father's
time. She will always be respected, but you must look to yourself as you grow up to make a
position tor her!"

"I wish I was grown up!" sighed Conrade; "how I would give it to Aunt Rachel! But why must
we live here to have her plaguing us?"

Questions that the Colonel was glad to turn aside by moans of the ponies, and by a suggestion
that, if a very quiet one were found, and if Conrade would be very careful, mamma might, perhaps,
go out riding with them. The motion was so transcendant that, no sooner had the ponies been
seen, than the boys raced home, and had communicated it at the top of their voices to mamma
long before their friend made his appearance. Lady Temple was quite startled at the idea. "Dear
papa," as she always called her husband, "had wished her to ride, but she had seldom done so,
and now--" The tears came into her eyes.

"I think you might," said the Colonel, gently; "I could find you a quiet animal, and to have
you with Conrade would be such a protection to him," he added, as the boys had rushed out of
the room.

"Yes; perhaps, dear boy. But I could not begin alone; it is so long since I rode. Perhaps when
you come back from Ireland."

"I am not going to Ireland."

"I thought you said--" said Fanny looking up surprised; "I am very glad! But if you wished
to go, pray don't think about us! I shall learn to manage in time, and I cannot bear to detain
you."

"You do not detain me," he said, sitting down by her; "I have found what I was going in search
of, and through your means."

"What--what do you mean! You were going to see Miss Williams this afternoon, I thought!"

"Yes, and it was she whom I was seeking." He paused, and added slowly, as if merely for the
sake of dwelling on the words, "I have found her!"

"Miss Williams!" said Fanny, with perplexed looks.

"Miss Williams!--my Ermine whom I had not seen since the day after her accident, when we parted
as on her deathbed!"

"That sister! Oh, poor thing, I am so glad! But I am sorry!" cried the much confused Fanny,
in a breath; "were not you very much shocked?"

"I had never hoped to see her face in all its brightness again," he said. "Twelve years! It
is twelve years that she has suffered, and of late she has been brought to this grievous state
of poverty, and yet the spirit is as brave and cheerful as ever! It looks out of the beautiful
eyes--more beautiful than when I first saw them,--I could see and think of nothing else!"

"Twelve years!" repeated Fanny; "is it so long since you saw her?"

"Almost since I heard of her! She was like a daughter to my aunt at Beauchamp, and her brother
was my schoolfellow. For one summer, when I was quartered at Hertford, I was with her constantly,
but my family would not even hear of the indefinite engagement that was all we could have looked
to, and made me exchange into the --th."

"Ah! that was the way we came to have you! I must tell you, dear Sir Stephen always guessed.
Once when he had quite vexed poor mamma by preventing her from joking you in her way about
young ladies, he told me that once, when he was young, he had liked some one who died or was
married, I don't quite know which, and he thought it was the same with you, from something
that happened when you withdrew your application for leave after your wound."

"Yes! it was a letter from home, implying that my return would be accepted as a sign that I
gave her up. So that was an additional instance of the exceeding kindness that I always received."

And there was a pause, both much affected by the thought of the good old man's ever ready consideration.
At last Fanny said, "I am sure it was well for us! What would he have done without you?--and,"
she added, "do you really mean that you never heard of her all these years?"

"Never after my aunt's death, except just after we went to Melbourne, when I heard in general
terms of the ruin of the family and the false imputation on their brother."

"Ah! I remember that you did say something about going home, and Sir Stephen was distressed,
and mamma and I persuaded you because we saw he would have missed you so much, and mamma was
quite hurt at your thinking of going. But if you had only told him your reason, he would never
have thought of standing in your way."

"I know he would not, but I saw he could hardly find any one else just then who knew his ways
so well. Besides, there was little use in going home till I had my promotion, and could offer
her a home; and I had no notion how utter the ruin was, or that she had lost so much. So little
did I imagine their straits that, but for Alison's look, I should hardly have inquired even
on hearing her name."

"How very curious--how strangely things come round!" said Fanny; then with a start of dismay,
"but what shall I do? Pray, tell me what you would like. If I might only keep her a little
while till I can find some one else, though no one will ever be so nice, but indeed I would
not for a moment, if you had rather not."

"Why so? Alison is very happy with you, and there can be no reason against her going on."

"Oh!" cried Lady Temple, with an odd sound of satisfaction, doubt, and surprise, "but I thought
you would not like it."

"I should like, of course, to set them all at ease, but as I can do no more than make a home
for Ermine and her niece, I can only rejoice that Alison is with you."

"But your brother!"

"If he does not like it, he must take the consequence of the utter separation he made my father
insist on," said the Colonel sternly. "For my own part, I only esteem both sisters the more,
if that were possible, for what they have done for themselves."

"Oh! that is what Rachel would like! She is so fond of the sick--I mean of your--Miss Williams.
I suppose I may not tell her yet."

"Not yet, if you please. I have scarcely had time as yet to know what Ermine wishes, but I
could not help telling you."

"Thank you--I am so glad," she said, with sweet earnestness, holding out her hand in congratulation.
"When may I go to her? I should like for her to come and stay here. Do you think she would?"

"Thank you, I will see. I know how kind you would be--indeed, have already been to her."

"And I am so thankful that I may keep Miss Williams! The dear boys never were so good. And
perhaps she may stay till baby is grown up. Oh! how long it will be first!"

"She could not have a kinder friend," said the Colonel, smiling, and looking at his watch.

"Oh, is it time to dress? It is very kind of my dear aunt; but I do wish we could have stayed
at home to-night. It is so dull for the boys when I dine out, and I had so much to ask you.
One thing was about that poor little Bessie Keith. Don't you think I might ask her down here,
to be near her brother?"

"It would be a very kind thing in you, and very good for her, but you must be prepared for
rather a gay young lady."

"Oh, but she would not mind my not going out. She would have Alick, you know, and all the boys
to amuse her; but, if you think it would be tiresome for her, and that she would not be happy,
I should be very sorry to have her, poor child."

"I was not afraid for her," said Colonel Keith, smiling, "but of her being rather too much
for you."

"Rachel is not too much for me," said Fanny, "and she and Grace will entertain Bessie, and
take her out. But I will talk to Alick. He spoke of coming to-morrow. And don't you think I
might ask Colonel and Mrs. Hammond to spend a day? They would so like the sea for the children."

"Certainly."

"Then perhaps you would write--oh, I forgot," colouring up, "I never can forget the old days,
it seems as if you were on the staff still."

"I always am on yours, and always hope to be," he said, smiling, "though I am afraid I can't
write your note to the Hammonds for you."

"But you won't go away," she said. "I know your time will be taken up, and you must not let
me or the boys be troublesome; but to have you here makes me so much less lost and lonely.
And I shall have such a friend in your Erminia. Is that her name?"

"Ermine, an old Welsh name, the softest I ever heard. Indeed it is dressing time," added Colonel
Keith, and both moved away with the startled precision of members of a punctual military household,
still feeling themselves accountable to somebody.

CHAPTER VI. ERMINE'S RESOLUTION

 "For as his hand the weather steers,
  So thrive I best 'twixt joys and tears,
  And all the year have some green ears."--H. VAUGHAN.

Alison had not been wrong in her presentiment that the second interview would be more trying
than the first. The exceeding brightness and animation of Ermine's countenance, her speaking
eyes, unchanged complexion, and lively manner--above all, the restoration of her real substantial
self--had so sufficed and engrossed Colin Keith in the gladness of their first meeting that
he had failed to comprehend her helpless state; and already knowing her to be an invalid, not
entirely recovered from her accident, he was only agreeably surprised to see the beauty of
face he had loved so long, retaining all its vivacity of expression. And when he met Alison
the next morning with a cordial brotherly greeting and inquiry for her sister, her "Very well,"
and "not at all the worse for the excitement," were so hearty and ready that he could not have
guessed that "well" with Ermine meant something rather relative than positive. Alison brought
him a playful message from her, that since he was not going to Belfast, she should meet him
with a freer conscience if he would first give her time for Rose's lessons, and, as he said,
he had lived long enough with Messrs. Conrade and Co. to acknowledge the wisdom of the message.
But Rose had not long been at leisure to look out for him before he made his appearance, and
walked in by right, as one at home; and sitting down in his yesterday's place, took the little
maiden on his knee, and began to talk to her about the lessons he had been told to wait for.
What would she have done without them? He knew some people who never could leave the house
quiet enough to hear one's-self speak if they were deprived of lessons. Was that the way with
her? Rose laughed like a creature, her aunt said, "to whom the notion of noise at play was
something strange and ridiculous; necessity has reduced her to Jacqueline Pascal's system with
her pensionnaires, who were allowed to play one by one without any noise."

"But I don't play all alone," said Rose; "I play with you, Aunt Ermine, and with Violetta."

And Violetta speedily had the honour of an introduction, very solemnly gone through, in due
form; Ermine, in the languid sportiveness of enjoyment of his presence and his kindness to
the child, inciting Rose to present Miss Violetta Williams to Colonel Keith, an introduction
that he returned with a grand military salute, at the same time as he shook the doll's inseparable
fingers. "Well, Miss Violetta, and Miss Rose, when you come to live with me, I shall hope for
the pleasure of teaching you to make a noise."

"What does he mean?" said Rose, turning round amazed upon her aunt.

"I am afraid he does not quite know," said Ermine, sadly.

"Nay, Ermine," said he, turning from the child, and bending over her, "you are the last who
should say that. Have I not told you that there is nothing now in our way--no one with a right
to object, and means enough for all we should wish, including her--? What is the matter?" he
added, startled by her look.

"Ah, Colin! I thought you knew--"

"Knew what, Ermine?" with his brows drawn together.

"Knew--what I am," she said; "knew the impossibility. What, they have not told you? I thought
I was the invalid, the cripple, with every one."

"I knew you had suffered cruelly; I knew you were lame," he said, breathlessly; "but--what--"

"It is more than lame," she said. "I should be better off if the fiction of the Queens of Spain
were truth with me. I could not move from this chair without help. Oh, Colin! poor Colin! it
was very cruel not to have prepared you for this!" she added, as he gazed at her in grief and
dismay, and made a vain attempt to find the voice that would not come. "Yes, indeed it is so,"
she said; "the explosion, rather than the fire, did mischief below the knee that poor nature
could not repair, and I can but just stand, and cannot walk at all."

"Has anything been done--advice?" he murmured.

"Advice upon advice, so that I felt at the last almost a compensation to be out of the way
of the doctors. No, nothing more can be done; and now that one is used to it, the snail is
very comfortable in its shell. But I wish you could have known it sooner!" she added, seeing
him shade his brow with his hand, overwhelmed.

"What you must have suffered!" he murmured.

"That is all over long ago; every year has left that further behind, and made me more content.
Dear Colin, for me there is nothing to grieve."

He could not control himself, rose up, made a long stride, and passed through the open window
into the garden.

"Oh, if I could only follow him," gasped Ermine, joining her hands and looking up.

"Is it because you can't walk?" said Rose, somewhat frightened, and for the first time beginning
to comprehend that her joyous-tempered aunt could be a subject for pity.

"Oh! this was what I feared!" sighed Ermine. "Oh, give us strength to go through with it."
Then becoming awake to the child's presence--"A little water, if you please, my dear." Then,
more composedly, "Don't be frightened, my Rose; you did not know it was such a shock to find
me so laid by--"

"He is in the garden walking up and down," said Rose. "May I go and tell him how much merrier
you always are than Aunt Ailie?"

Poor Ermine felt anything but merry just then, but she had some experience of Rose's powers
of soothing, and signed assent. So in another second Colonel Keith was met in the hasty, agonized
walk by which he was endeavouring to work off his agitation, and the slender child looked wistfully
up at him from dark depths of half understanding eyes--"Please, please don't be so very sorry,"
she said. "Aunt Ermine does not like it. She never is sorry for herself--"

"Have I shaken her--distressed her?" he asked, anxiously.

"She doesn't like you to be sorry," said Rose, looking up. "And, indeed, she does not mind
it; she is such a merry aunt! Please, come in again, and see how happy we always are--"

The last words were spoken so near the window that Ermine caught them, and said, "Yes, come
in, Colin, and learn not to grieve for me, or you will make me repent of my selfish gladness
yesterday."

"Not grieve!" he exclaimed, "when I think of the beautiful vigorous being that used to be the
life of the place--" and he would have said more but for a deprecating sign of the hand.

"Well," she said, half smiling, "it is a pity to think even of a crushed butterfly; but indeed,
Colin, if you can bear to listen to me, I think I can show you that it all has been a blessing
even by sight, as well as, of course, by faith. Only remember the unsatisfactoriness of our
condition--the never seeing or hearing from one another after that day when Mr. Beauchamp came
down on us. Did not the accident win for us a parting that was much better to remember than
that state of things? Oh, the pining, weary feel as if all the world had closed on me! I do
assure you it was much worse than anything that came after the burn. Yes, if I had been well
and doing like others, I know I should have fretted and wearied, pined myself ill perhaps,
whereas I could always tell myself that every year of your absence might be a step towards
your finding me well; and when I was forced to give up that hope for myself, why then, Colin,
the never seeing your name made me think you would never be disappointed and grieved as you
are now. It is very merciful the way that physical trials help one through those of the mind."

"I never knew," said the Colonel; "all my aunt's latter letters spoke of your slow improvement
beyond hope."

"True, in her time, I had not reached the point where I stopped. The last time I saw her I
was still upstairs; and, indeed, I did not half know what I could do till I tried."

"Yes," said he, brightened by that buoyant look so remarkable in her face; "and you will yet
do more, Ermine. You have convinced me that we shall be all the happier together--"

"But that was not what I meant to convince you of--" she said, faintly.

"Not what you meant, perhaps; but what it did convince me was, that you--as you are, my Ermine--are
ten thousand times more to me than even as the beautiful girl, and that there never can be
a happier pair than we shall be when I am your hands and feet."

Ermine sat up, and rallied all her forces, choked back the swelling of her throat, and said,
"Dear Colin, it cannot be! I trusted you were understanding that when I told you how it was
with me."

He could not speak from consternation.

"No," she said; "it would be wrong in me to think of it for an instant. That you should have
done so, shows--O Colin, I cannot talk of it; but it would be as ungenerous in me to consent,
as it is noble of you to propose it."

"It is no such thing," he answered; "it has been the one object and thought of my life, the
only hope I have had all these years."

"Exactly so," she said, struggling again to speak firmly; "and that is the very thing. You
kept your allegiance to the bright, tall, walking, active girl, and it would be a shame in
the scorched cripple to claim it."

"Don't call yourself names. Have I not told you that you are more than the same?"

"You do not know. You are pleased because my face is not burnt, nor grown much older, and because
I can talk and laugh in the same voice still." (Oh, how it quivered!) "But it would be a wicked
mockery in me to pretend to be the wife you want. Yes, I know you think you do, but that is
just because my looks are so deceitful, and you have kept on thinking about me; but you must
make a fresh beginning."

"You can tell me that," he said, indignantly.

"Because it is not new to me," she said; "the quarter of an hour you stood by me, with that
deadly calm in your white face, was the real farewell to the young hopeful dream of that bright
summer. I wish it was as calm now."

"I believed you dying then," answered he.

"Do not make me think it would have been better for you if I had been," she said, imploringly.
"It was as much the end, and I knew it from the time my recovery stopped short. I would have
let you know if I could, and then you would not have been so much shocked."

"So as to cut me off from you entirely?"

"No, indeed. The thought of seeing you again was too--too overwhelming to be indulged in; knowing,
as I did, that if you were the same to me, it must be at this sad cost to you," and her eyes
filled with tears.

"It is you who make it so, Ermine."

"No; it is the providence that has set me aside from the active work of life. Pray do not go
on, Colin, it is only giving us both useless pain. You do not know what it costs me to deny
you, and I feel that I must. I know you are only acting on the impulse of generosity. Yes,
I will say so, though you think it is to please yourself," she added, with one of those smiles
that nothing could drive far from her lips, and which made it infinitely harder to acquiesce
in her denial.

"I will make you think so in time," he said. "Then I might tell you, you had no right to please
yourself," she answered, still with the same air of playfulness; "you have got a brother, you
know--and--yes, I hear you growl; but if he is a poor old broken man out of health, it is the
more reason you should not vex him, nor hamper yourself with a helpless commodity."

"You are not taking the way to make me forget what my brother has done for us."

"How do you know that he did not save me from being a strong-minded military lady! After all,
it was absurd to expect people to look favourably on our liking for one another, and you know
they could not be expected to know that there was real stuff in the affair. If there had not
been, we should have thought so all the same, you know, and been quite as furious."

He could not help smiling, recollecting fury that, in the course of these twelve years, he
had seen evinced under similar circumstances by persons who had consoled themselves before
he had done pitying them. "Still," he said gravely, "I think there was harshness."

"So do I, but not so much as I thought at that time, and--oh, surely that is not Rachel Curtis?
I told her I thought you would call."

"Intolerable!" he muttered between his teeth. "Is she always coming to bore you?"

"She has been very kind, and my great enlivenment," said Ermine, "and she can't be expected
to know how little we want her. Oh, there, the danger is averted! She must have asked if you
were here."

"I was just thinking that she was the chief objection to Lady Temple's kind wish of having
you at Myrtlewood."

"Does Lady Temple know?" asked Ermine, blushing.

"I could not keep it from one who has been so uniformly kind to me; but I desired her not to
let it go further till I should hear your wishes."

"Yes, she has a right to know," said Ermine; "but please, not a word elsewhere."

"And will you not come to stay with her?"

"I? Oh, no; I am fit for no place but this. You don't half know how bad I am. When you have
seen a little more of us, you will be quite convinced."

"Well, at least, you give me leave to come here."

"Leave? When it is a greater pleasure than I ever thought to have again; that is, while you
understand that you said good-bye to the Ermine of Beauchamp Parsonage twelve years ago, and
that the thing here is only a sort of ghost, most glad and grateful to be a friend--a sister."

"So," he said, "those are to be the terms of my admission."

"The only possible ones."

"I will consider them. I have not accepted them."

"You will," she said.

But she met a smile in return, implying that there might be a will as steadfast as her own,
although the question might be waived for a time.

Meantime, Rachel was as nearly hating Colonel Keith as principle would allow, with "Human Reeds,"
newly finished, burning in her pocket, "Military Society" fermenting in her brain, and "Curatocult"
still unacknowledged. Had he not had quite time for any rational visit? Was he to devour Mackarel
Lane as well as Myrtlewood? She was on her way to the latter house, meeting Grace as she went,
and congratulating herself that he could not be in two places at once, whilst Grace secretly
wondered how far she might venture to build on Alison Williams's half confidence, and regretted
the anxiety wasted by Rachel and the mother; though, to be sure, that of Mrs. Curtis was less
uncalled for than her daughter's, since it was only the fear of Fanny's not being sufficiently
guarded against misconstructions.

Rachel held up her hands in despair in the hall. "Six officers' cards!" she exclaimed.

"No, only six cards," said Grace; "there are two of each."

"That's enough," sighed Rachel; "and look there," gazing through the garden-door. "She is walking
with the young puppy that dined here on Thursday, and they called Alick."

"Do you remember," said Grace, "how she used to chatter about Alick, when she first came to
us, at six years old. He was the child of one of the officers. Can this be the same?"

"That's one of your ideas, Grace. Look, this youth could have been hardly born when Fanny came
to us. No; he is only one of the idlers that military life has accustomed her to."

Rather against Grace's feeling, Rachel drew her on, so as to come up with Lady Temple and her
friend in the midst of their conversation, and they heard the last words--

"Then you will give me dear Bessie's direction?"

"Thank you, it will be the greatest kindness--"

"Oh, Grace, Rachel, is it you?" exclaimed Fanny. "You have not met before, I think. Mr. Keith--Miss
Curtis."

Very young indeed were both face and figure, fair and pale, and though there was a moustache,
it was so light and silky as to be scarcely visible; the hair, too, was almost flaxen, and
the whole complexion had a washed-out appearance. The eyes, indeed, were of the same peculiar
deep blue as the Colonel's, but even these were little seen under their heavy sleepy lids,
and the long limbs had in every movement something of weight and slowness, the very sight of
which fretted Rachel, and made her long to shake him. It appeared that he was come to spend
the Sunday at Avonmouth, and Grace tried to extract the comfort for her mother that two gentlemen
were better than one, and Fanny need not be on their minds for chaperonage for that day.

A party of garden-chairs on the lawn invited repose, and there the ladies seated themselves;
Fanny laying down her heavy crape bonnet, and showing her pretty little delicate face, now
much fresher and more roseate than when she arrived, though her wide-spreading black draperies
gave a certain dignity to her slight figure, contrasting with the summer muslins of her two
cousins; as did her hot-house plant fairness, with their firm, healthy glow of complexion;
her tender shrinking grace, with their upright vigour. The gentleman of the party leant hack
in a languid, easy posture, as though only half awake, and the whole was so quiet that Grace,
missing the usual tumult of children, asked after them.

"The boys have gone to their favourite cove under the plantation. They have a fort there, and
Hubert told me he was to be a hero, and Miss Williams a she-ro."

"I would not encourage that description of sport," said Rachel, willing to fight a battle in
order to avert maternal anecdotes of boyish sayings.

"They like it so much," said Fanny, "and they learn so much now that they act all the battles
they read about."

"That is what I object to," said Rachel; "it is accustoming them to confound heroism with pugnacity."

"No, but Rachel dear, they do quarrel and fight among themselves much less now that this is
all in play and good humour," pleaded Fanny.

"Yes, that may be, but you are cultivating the dangerous instinct, although for a moment giving
it a better direction."

"Dangerous? Oh, Alick! do you think it can be?" said Fanny, less easily borne down with a supporter
beside her.

"According to the Peace Society," he answered, with a quiet air of courteous deference; "perhaps
you belong to it?"

"No, indeed," answered Rachel, rather indignantly, "I think war the great purifier and ennobler
of nations, when it is for a good and great cause; but I think education ought to protest against
confounding mere love of combat with heroism."

"Query, the true meaning of the word?" he said, leaning back.

"Heros, yes from the same root as the German herr," readily responded Rachel, "meaning no more
than lord and master; but there can be no doubt that the progress of ideas has linked with
it a much nobler association."

"Progress! What, since the heroes were half divine!"

"Half divine in the esteem of a people who thought brute courage godlike. To us the word maintains
its semi-divinity, and it should be our effort to associate it only with that which veritably
has the god-like stamp."

"And that is--?"

"Doing more than one's duty," exclaimed Rachel, with a glistening eye.

"Very uncomfortable and superfluous, and not at all easy," he said, half shutting his already
heavy eyes.

"Easy, no, that's the beauty and the glory--"

"Major Sherborne and Captain Lester in the drawing room, my lady," announced Coombe, who had
looked infinitely cheered since this military influx.

"You will come with me, Grace," said Fanny, rising. "I dare say you had rather not, Rachel,
and it would be a pity to disturb you, Alick."

"Thank you; it would be decidedly more than my duty."

"I am quite sorry to go, you are so amusing," said Fanny, "but I suppose you will have settled
about heroism by the time we come out again, and will tell me what the boys ought to play at."

Rachel's age was quite past the need of troubling herself at being left tete-a-tete with a
mere lad like this; and, besides, it was an opportunity not to be neglected of giving a young
carpet knight a lesson in true heroism. There was a pause after the other two had moved off.
Rachel reflected for a few moments, and then, precipitated by the fear of her audience falling
asleep, she exclaimed--

"No words have been more basely misused than hero and heroine. The one is the mere fighting
animal whose strength or fortune have borne him through some more than ordinary danger, the
other is only the subject of an adventure, perfectly irrespective of her conduct in it."

"Bathos attends all high words," he said, as she paused, chiefly to see whether he was awake,
and not like her dumb playfellow of old.

"This is not their natural bathos but their misuse. They ought to be reserved for those who
in any department have passed the limits to which the necessity of their position constrained
them, and done acts of self-devotion for the good of others. I will give you an instance, and
from your own profession, that you may see I am not prejudiced, besides, the hero of it is
past praise or blame."

Encouraged by seeing a little more of his eyes, she went on. "It was in the course of the siege
of Delhi, a shell came into a tent where some sick and wounded were lying. There was one young
officer among them who could move enough to have had a chance of escaping the explosion, but
instead of that he took the shell up, its fuse burning as it was, and ran with it out of the
tent, then hurled it to a distance. It exploded, and of course was his death, but the rest
were saved, and I call that a deed of heroism far greater than mounting a breach or leading
a forlorn hope."

"Killed, you say?" inquired Mr. Keith, still in the same lethargic manner.

"Oh yes, mortally wounded: carried back to die among the men he had saved."

"Jessie Cameron singing his dirge," mumbled this provoking individual, with something about
the form of his cheek that being taken by Rachel for a derisive smile, made her exclaim vehemently,
"You do not mean to undervalue an action like that in comparison with mere animal pugnacity
in an advance."

"More than one's duty was your test," he said.

"And was not this more than duty? Ah! I see yours is a spirit of depreciation, and I can only
say I pity you."

He took the trouble to lift himself up and make a little bow of acknowledgment. Certainly he
was worse than the Colonel; but Rachel, while mustering her powers for annihilating him, was
annoyed by all the party in the drawing-room coming forth to join them, the other officers
rallying young Keith upon his luxurious station, and making it evident that he was a proverb
in the regiment for taking his ease. Chairs were brought out, and afternoon tea, and the callers
sat down to wait for Colonel Keith to come in; Grace feeling obliged to stay to help Fanny
entertain her visitors, and Rachel to protect her from their follies. One thing Grace began
to perceive, that Lady Temple had in her former world been a person of much more consideration
than she was made here, and seeing the polite and deferential manner of these officers to her,
could only wonder at her gentle content and submission in meeting with no particular attention
from anybody, and meekly allowing herself to be browbeaten by Rachel and lectured by her aunt.

A lecture was brewing up for her indeed. Poor Mrs. Curtis was very much concerned at the necessity,
and only spurred up by a strong sense of duty to give a hint--the study of which hint cost
her a whole sleepless night and a very weary Sunday morning. She decided that her best course
would be to drive to Myrtlewood rather early on her way to church, and take up Fanny, gaining
a previous conference with her alone, if possible. "Yes, my dear," she said to Grace, "I must
get it over before church, or it will make me so nervous all through the service." And Grace,
loving her mother best, durst not suggest what it might do to Fanny, hoping that the service
might help her to digest the hint.

Mrs. Curtis's regular habits were a good deal shocked to find Fanny still at the breakfast
table. The children had indeed long finished, and were scattered about the room, one of them
standing between Colonel Keith's knees, repeating a hymn; but the younger guest was still in
the midst of his meal, and owned in his usual cool manner that he was to blame for the lateness,
there was no resisting the charms of no morning parade.

Her aunt's appearance made Fanny imagine it much later than it really was, and she hurried
off the children to be dressed, and proceeded herself to her room, Mrs. Curtis following, and
by way of preliminary, asking when Colonel Keith was going to Ireland.

"Oh!" said Fanny, blushing most suspiciously under her secret, "he is not going to Ireland now."

"Indeed! I quite understood he intended it."

"Yes," faltered Fanny, "but he found that he need not."

"Indeed!" again ejaculated poor perplexed Mrs. Curtis; "but then, at least, he is going away soon."

"He must go to Scotland by-and-by, but for the present he is going into lodgings. Do you know
of any nice ones, dear aunt?"

"Well, I suppose you can't help that; you know, my dear, it would never do for him to stay
in this house."

"I never thought of that," said Fanny simply, the colour coming in a fresh glow.

"No, my dear, but you see you are very young and inexperienced. I do not say you have done
anything the least amiss, or that you ever would mean it, only you will forgive your old aunt
for putting you on your guard."

Fanny kissed her, but with eyes full of tears, and cheeks burning, then her candour drew from
her--"It was he that thought of getting a lodging. I am glad I did not persuade him not; but
you know he always did live with us."

"With us. Yes, my poor dear, that is the difference, and you see he feels it. But, indeed,
my dear child, though he is a very good man, I dare say, and quite a gentleman all but his
beard, you had better not encourage--You know people are so apt to make remarks."

"I have no fear," said Fanny, turning away her head, conscious of the impossibility of showing
her aunt her mistake.

"Ah! my dear, you don't guess how ready people are to talk; and you would not like--for your
children's sake, for your husband's sake--that--that--"

"Pray, pray aunt," cried Fanny, much pained, "indeed you don't know. My husband had confidence
in him more than in any one. He told him to take care of me and look after the boys. I couldn't
hold aloof from him without transgressing those wishes"--and the words were lost in a sob.

"My dear, indeed I did not mean to distress you. You know, I dare say--I mean--" hesitated
poor Mrs. Curtis. "I know you must see a great deal of him. I only want you to take care--appearances
are appearances, and if it was said you had all these young officers always coming about--"

"I don't think they will come. It was only just to call, and they have known me so long. It
is all out of respect to my father and Sir Stephen," said Fanny, meekly as ever. "Indeed, I
would not for the world do anything you did not like, dear aunt; but there can't be any objection
to my having Mrs. Hammond and the children to spend the day to-morrow."

Mrs. Curtis did not like it; she had an idea that all military ladies were dashing and vulgar,
but she could not say there was any objection, so she went on to the head of poor Fanny's offending.
"This young man, my dear, he seems to make himself very intimate."

"Alick Keith? Oh aunt!" said Fanny, more surprised than by all the rest; "don't you know about
him? His father and mother were our greatest friends always; I used to play with him every
day till I came to you. And then just as I married, poor Mrs. Keith died, and we had dear little
Bessie with us till her father could send her home. And when poor Alick was so dreadfully wounded
before Delhi, Sir Stephen sent him up in a litter to the hills for mamma and me to nurse. Mamma
was so fond of him, she used to call him her son."

"Yes, my dear, I dare say you have been very intimate; but you see you are very young; and
his staying here--"

"I thought he would be so glad to come and be with the Colonel, who was his guardian and Bessie's,"
said Fanny, "and I have promised to have Bessie to stay with me, she was such a dear little
thing--"

"Well, my dear, it may be a good thing for you to have a young lady with you, and if he is
to come over, her presence will explain it. Understand me, my dear, I am not at all afraid
of your--your doing anything foolish, only to get talked of is so dreadful in your situation,
that you can't be too careful."

"Yes, yes, thank you, dear aunt," murmured the drooping and subdued Fanny, aware how much the
remonstrance must cost her aunt, and sure that she must be in fault in some way, if she could
only see how. "Please, dear aunt, help me, for indeed I don't know how to manage--tell me how
to be civil and kind to my dear husband's friends without--without--"

Her voice broke down, though she kept from tears as an unkindness to her aunt.

In very fact, little as she knew it, she could not have defended herself better than by this
humble question, throwing the whole guidance of her conduct upon her aunt. If she had been
affronted, Mrs. Curtis could have been displeased; but to be thus set to prescribe the right
conduct, was at once mollifying and perplexing.

"Well, well, my dear child, we all know you wish to do right; you can judge best. I would not
have you ungrateful or uncivil, only you know you are living very quietly, and intimacy--oh!
my dear, I know your own feeling will direct you. Dear child! you have taken what I said so
kindly. And now let me see that dear little girl."

Rachel had not anticipated that the upshot of a remonstrance, even from her mother, would be
that Fanny was to be directed by her own feeling!

That same feeling took Lady Temple to Mackarel Lane later in the day. She had told the Colonel
her intention, and obtained Alison's assurance that Ermine's stay at Myrtlewood need not be
impracticable, and armed with their consent, she made her timid tap at Miss Williams' door,
and showed her sweet face within it.

"May I come in? Your sister and your little niece are gone for a walk. I told them I would
come! I did want to see you!"

"Thank you," said Ermine, with a sweet smile, colouring cheek, yet grave eyes, and much taken
by surprise at being seized by both hands, and kissed on each cheek.

"Yes, you must let me," said her visitor, looking up with her pretty imploring gesture, "you
know I have known him so long, and he has been so good to me!"

"Indeed it is very kind in you," said Ermine, fully feeling the force of the plea expressed
in the winning young face and gentle eyes full of tears.

"Oh, no, I could not help it. I am only so sorry we kept him away from you when you wanted
him so much; but we did not know, and he was Sir Stephen's right hand, and we none of us knew
what to do without him; but if he had only told--"

"Thank you, oh, thank you!" said Ermine, "but indeed it was better for him to be away."

Even her wish to console that pleading little widow could not make her say that his coming
would not have been good for her. "It has been such a pleasure to hear he had so kind and happy
a home all these years."

"Oh, you cannot think how Sir Stephen loved and valued him. The one thing I always did wish
was, that Conrade should grow up to be as much help and comfort to his father, and now he never
can! But," driving back a tear, "it was so hard that you should not have known how distinguished
and useful and good he was all those years. Only now I shall have the pleasure of telling you,"
and she smiled. She was quite a different being when free from the unsympathizing influence
which, without her understanding it, had kept her from dwelling on her dearest associations.

"It will be a pleasure of pleasures," said Ermine, eagerly.

"Then you will do me a favour, a very great favour," said Lady Temple, laying hold of her hand
again, "if you and your sister and niece will come and stay with me." And as Ermine commenced
her refusal, she went on in the same coaxing way, with a description of her plans for Ermine's
comfort, giving her two rooms on the ground floor, and assuring her of the absence of steps,
the immunity from all teasing by the children, of the full consent of her sister, and the wishes
of the Colonel, nay, when Ermine was still unpersuaded of the exceeding kindness it would be
to herself. "You see I am terribly young, really," she said, "though I have so many boys, and
my aunt thinks it awkward for me to have so many officers calling, and I can't keep them away
because they are my father's and Sir Stephen's old friends; so please do come and make it all
right!"

Ermine was driven so hard, and so entirely deprived of all excuse, that she had no alternative
left but to come to the real motive.

"I ought not," she said, "it is not good for him, so you must not press me, dear Lady Temple.
You see it is best for him that nobody should ever know of what has been between us."

"What! don't you mean--?" exclaimed Fanny, breaking short off.

"I cannot!" said Ermine.

"But he would like it. He wishes it as much as ever."

"I know he does," said Ermine, with a troubled voice; "but you see that is because he did not
know what a wretched remnant I am, and he never has had time to think about any one else."

"Oh no, no."

"And it would be very unfair of me to take advantage of that, and give him such a thing as I am."

"Oh dear, but that is very sad!" cried Fanny, looking much startled.

"But I am sure you must see that it is right."

"It may be right," and out burst Fanny's ready tears; "but it is very, very hard and disagreeable,
if you don't mind my saying so, when I know it is so good of you. And don't you mean to let
him even see you, when he has been constant so long?"

"No; I see no reason for denying myself that; indeed I believe it is better for him to grow
used to me as I am, and be convinced of the impossibility."

"Well then, why will you not come to me?"

"Do you not see, in all your kindness, that my coming to you would make every one know the
terms between us, while no one remarks his just coming to me here as an old friend? And if
he were ever to turn his mind to any one else--"

"He will never do that, I am sure."

"There is no knowing. He has never been, in his own estimation, disengaged from me," said Ermine;
"his brother is bent on his marrying, and he ought to be perfectly free to do so, and not under
the disadvantage that any report of this affair would be to him."

"Well, I am sure he never will," said Fanny, almost petulantly; "I know I shall hate her, that's
all."

Ermine thought her own charity towards Mrs. Colin Keith much more dubious than Lady Temple's,
but she continued--

"At any rate you will be so very kind as not to let any one know of it. I am glad you do. I
should not feel it right that you should not, but it is different with others."

"Thank you. And if you will not come to me, you will let me come to you, won't you? It will
be so nice to come and talk him over with you. Perhaps I shall persuade you some of these days
after all. Only I must go now, for I always give the children their tea on Sunday. But please
let your dear little niece come up to-morrow and play with them; the little Hammonds will be
there, she is just their age."

Ermine felt obliged to grant this at least, though she was as doubtful of her shy Rose's happiness
as of the expedience of the intimacy; but there was no being ungracious to the gentle visitor,
and no doubt Ermine felt rejoiced and elevated. She did not need fresh assurances of Colin's
constancy, but the affectionate sister-like congratulations of this loving, winning creature,
showed how real and in earnest his intentions were. And then Lady Temple's grateful esteem
for him being, as it was, the reflection of her husband's, was no small testimony to his merits.

"Pretty creature!" said Ermine to herself, "really if it did come to that, I could spare him
to her better than to any one else. She has some notion how to value him."

Alison and Rose had, in the meantime, been joined by Colonel Keith and the boys, whom Alick
had early deserted in favour of a sunny sandy nook. The Colonel's purpose was hard on poor
Alison; it was to obtain her opinion of her sister's decision, and the likelihood of persistence
in it. It was not, perhaps, bad for either that they conversed under difficulties, the boys
continually coming back to them from excursions on the rocks, and Rose holding her aunt's hand
all the time, but to be sure Rose had heard nearly all the Colonel's affairs, and somehow mixed
him up with Henry of Cranstoun.

Very tenderly towards Alison herself did Colin Keith speak. It was the first time they had
ever been brought into close contact, and she had quite to learn to know him. She had regarded
his return as probably a misfortune, but it was no longer possible to do so when she heard
his warm and considerate way of speaking of her sister, and saw him only desirous of learning
what was most for her real happiness. Nay, he even made a convert of Alison herself! She did
believe that would Ermine but think it right to consent, she would be happy and safe in the
care of one who knew so well how to love her. Terrible as the wrench would be to Alison herself,
she thought he deserved her sister, and that she would be as happy with him as earth could
make her. But she did not believe Ermine would ever accept him. She knew the strong, unvarying
resolution by which her sister had always held to what she thought right, and did not conceive
that it would waver. The acquiescence in his visits, and the undisguised exultant pleasure
in his society, were evidences to Alison not of wavering or relenting, but of confidence in
Ermine's own sense of impossibility. She durst not give him any hope, though she owned that
he merited success. "Did she think his visits bad for her sister?" he then asked in the unselfishness
that pleaded so strongly for him.

"No, certainly not," she answered eagerly, then made a little hesitation that made him ask further.

"My only fear," she said candidly, "is, that if this is pressed much on her, and she has to
struggle with you and herself too, it may hurt her health. Trouble tells not on her cheerfulness,
but on her nerves."

"Thank you," he said, "I will refrain."

Alison was much happier than she had been since the first apprehension of his return. The first
pang at seeing Ermine's heart another's property had been subdued; the present state of affairs
was indefinitely-prolonged, and she not only felt trust in Colin Keith's consideration for
her sister, but she knew that an act of oblivion was past on her perpetration of the injury.
She was right. His original pitying repugnance to a mere unknown child could not be carried
on to the grave, saddened woman devoted to her sister, and in the friendly brotherly tone of
that interview, each understood the other. And when Alison came home and said, "I have been
walking with Colin," her look made Ermine very happy.

"And learning to know him."

"Learning to sympathize with him, Ermine," with steady eyes and voice. "You are hard on him."

"Now, Ailie," said Ermine, "once for all, he is not to set you on me, as he has done with Lady
Temple. The more he persuades me, the better I know that to listen would be an abuse of his
constancy. It would set him wrong with his brother, and, as dear Edward's affairs stand, we
have no right to carry the supposed disgrace into a family that would believe it, though he
does not. If I were ever so well, I should not think it right to marry. I shall not shun the
sight of him; it is delightful to me, and a less painful cure to him than sending him away
would be. It is in the nature of things that he should cool into a friendly kindly feeling,
and I shall try to bear it. Or if he does marry, it will be all right I suppose--" but her
voice faltered, and she gave a sort of broken laugh.

"There," she said, with a recovered flash of liveliness, "there's my resolution, to do what
I like more than anything in the world as long as I can; and when it is over I shall be helped
to do without it!"

"I can't believe--" broke out Alison.

"Not in your heart, but in your reason," said Ermine, endeavouring to smile. "He will hover
about here, and always be kind, loving, considerate; but a time will come that he will want
the home happiness I cannot give. Then he will not wear out his affection on the impossible
literary cripple, but begin over again, and be happy. And, Alison, if your love for me is of
the sound, strong sort I know it is, you will help me through with it, and never say one word
to make all this less easy and obvious to him."

CHAPTER VII.

So, instead of going to Belfast, here was Colonel Keith actually taking a lodging and settling
himself into it; nay, even going over to Avoncester on a horse-buying expedition, not merely
for the Temples, but for himself.

This time Rachel did think herself sure of Miss Williams' ear in peace, and came down on her
with two fat manuscripts upon Human Reeds and Military Society, preluding, however, by bitter
complaints of the "Traveller" for never having vouchsafed her an answer, nor having even restored
"Curatocult," though she had written three times, and sent a directed envelope and stamps for
the purpose. The paper must be ruined by so discourteous an editor, indeed she had not been
nearly so much interested as usual by the last few numbers. If only she could get her paper
back, she should try the "Englishwoman's Hobby-horse," or some other paper of more progress
than that "Traveller." "Is it not very hard to feel one's self shut out from the main stream
of the work of the world when one's heart is burning?"

"I think you overrate the satisfaction."

"You can't tell! You are contented with that sort of home peaceful sunshine that I know suffices
many. Even intellectual as you are, you can't tell what it is to feel power within, to strain
at the leash, and see others in the race."

"I was thinking whether you could not make an acceptable paper on the lace system, which you
really know so thoroughly."

"The fact is," said Rachel, "it is much more difficult to describe from one's own observation
than from other sources."

"But rather more original," said Ermine, quite overcome by the naivete of the confession.

"I don't see that," said Rachel. "It is abstract reasoning from given facts that I aim at,
as you will understand when you have heard my 'Human Reeds,' and my other--dear me, there's
your door bell. I thought that Colonel was gone for the day."

"There are other people in the world besides the Colonel," Ermine began to say, though she
hardly felt as if there were, and at any rate a sense of rescue crossed her. The persons admitted
took them equally by surprise, being Conrade Temple and Mr. Keith.

"I thought," said Rachel, as she gave her unwilling hand to the latter, "that you would have
been at Avoncester to-day."

"I always get out of the way of horse-dealing. I know no greater bore," he answered.

"Mamma sent me down," Conrade was explaining; "Mr. Keith's uncle found out that he knew Miss
Williams--no, that's not it, Miss Williams' uncle found out that Mr. Keith preached a sermon,
or something of that sort, so mamma sent me down to show him the way to call upon her; but
I need not stay now, need I?"

"After that elegant introduction, and lucid explanation, I think you may be excused," returned
Alick Keith.

The boy shook Ermine's hand with his soldierly grace, but rather spoilt the effect thereof
by his aside, "I wanted to see the toad and the pictures our Miss Williams told me about, but
I'll come another time;" and the wink of his black eyes, and significant shrug of his shoulders
at Rachel, were irresistible. They all laughed, even Rachel herself, as Ermine, seeing it would
be worse to ignore the demonstration, said, "The elements of aunt and boy do not always work
together."

"No," said Rachel; "I have never been forgiven for being the first person who tried to keep
those boys in order."

"And now," said Ermine, turning to her other visitor, "perhaps I may discover which of us,
or of our uncles, preached a sermon."

"Mine, I suspect," returned Mr. Keith. "Your sister and I made out at luncheon that you had
known my uncle, Mr. Clare, of Bishopsworthy."

"Mr. Clare! Oh yes," cried Ermine eagerly, "he took the duty for one of our curates once for
a long vacation. Did you ever hear him speak of Beauchamp?"

"Yes, often; and of Dr. Williams. He will be very much interested to hear of you."

"It was a time I well remember," said Ermine. "He was an Oxford tutor then, and I was about
fourteen, just old enough to be delighted to hear clever talk. And his sermons were memorable;
they were the first I ever listened to."

"There are few sermons that it is not an infliction to listen to," began Rachel, but she was
not heard or noticed.

"I assure you they are even more striking now in his blindness."

"Blindness! Indeed, I had not heard of that."

Even Rachel listened with interest as the young officer explained that his uncle, whom both
he and Miss Williams talked of as a man of note, of whom every one must have heard, had for
the last four years been totally blind, but continued to be an active parish priest, visiting
regularly, preaching, and taking a share in the service, which he knew by heart. He had, of
course, a curate, who lived with him, and took very good care of him.

"No one else?" said Rachel. "I thought your sister lived at Bishopsworthy."

"No, my sister lives, or has lived, at Little Worthy, the next parish, and as unlike it as
possible. It has a railroad in it, and the cockneys have come down on it and 'villafied' it.
My aunt, Mrs. Lacy Clare, has lived there ever since my sister has been with her; but now her
last daughter is to be married, she wishes to give up housekeeping."

"And your sister is coming to Lady Temple," said Rachel, in her peculiar affirmative way of
asking questions. "She will find it very dull here."

"With all the advantages of Avoncester at hand?" inquired Alick, with a certain gleam under
his flaxen eyelashes that convinced Ermine that he said it in mischief. But Rachel drew herself
up gravely, and answered--

"In Lady Temple's situation any such thing would be most inconsistent with good feeling."

"Such as the cathedral?" calmly, not to say sleepily, inquired Alick, to the excessive diversion
of Ermine, who saw that Rachel had never been laughed at in her life, and was utterly at a
loss what to make of it.

"If you meant the cathedral," she said, a little uncertainly, recollecting the tone in which
Mr. Clare had just been spoken of, and thinking that perhaps Miss Keith might be a curatolatress,
"I am afraid it is not of much benefit to people living at this distance, and there is not
much to be said for the imitation here."

"You will see what my sister says to it. She only wants training to be the main strength of
the Bishopsworthy choir, and perhaps she may find it here."

Rachel was evidently undecided whether chants or marches were Miss Keith's passion, and, perhaps,
which propensity would render the young lady the most distasteful to herself. Ermine thought
it merciful to divert the attack by mentioning Mr. Clare's love of music, and hoping his curate
could gratify it. "No," Mr. Keith said, "it was very unlucky that Mr. Lifford did not know
one note from another; so that his vicar could not delude himself into hoping that his playing
on his violin was anything but a nuisance to his companion, and in spite of all the curate's
persuasions, he only indulged himself therewith on rare occasions." But as Ermine showed surprise
at the retention of a companion devoid of this sixth sense, so valuable to the blind, he added--"No
one would suit him so well. Mr. Lifford has been with him ever since his sight began to fail,
and understands all his ways."

"Yes, that makes a great difference."

"And," pursued the young man, coming to something like life as he talked of his uncle, "though
he is not quite all that a companion might be, my uncle says there would be no keeping the
living without him, and I do not believe there would, unless my uncle would have me instead."

Ermine laughed and looked interested, not quite knowing what other answer to make. Rachel lifted
up her eyebrows in amazement.

"Another advantage," added Alick, who somehow seemed to accept Ermine as one of the family,
"is, that he is no impediment to Bessie's living there, for, poor man, he has a wife, but insane."

"Then your sister will live there?" said Rachel. "What an enviable position, to have the control
of means of doing good that always falls to the women of a clerical family."

"Tell her so," said the brother, with his odd, suppressed smile.

"What, she does not think so?"

"Now," said Mr. Keith, leaning back, "on my answer depends whether Bessie enters this place
with a character for chanting, croquet, or crochet. Which should you like worst, Miss Curtis?"

"I like evasions worst of all," said Rachel, with a flash of something like playful spirit,
though there was too much asperity in it.

"But you see, unfortunately, I don't know," said Alick Keith, slowly. "I have never been able
to find out, nor she either. I don't know what may be the effect of example," he added. Ermine
wondered whether he were in mischief or earnest, and suspected a little of both.

"I shall be very happy to show Miss Keith any of my ways," said Rachel, with no doubts at all;
"but she will find me terribly impeded here. When does she come?"

"Not for a month or six weeks, when the wedding will be over. It is high time she saw something
of her respected guardian."

"The Colonel?"

"Yes," then to Ermine, "Every one turns to him with reliance and confidence. I believe no one
in the army received so many last charges as he has done, or executes them more fully."

"And," said Ermine, feeling pleasure colour her cheek more deeply than was convenient, "you
are relations."

"So far away that only a Scotsman would acknowledge the cousinship."

"But do not you call yourself Scotch?" said Ermine, who had for years thought it glorious to do so.

"My great grandfather came from Gowan-brae," said Alick, "but our branch of the family has
lived and died in the --th Highlanders for so many generations that we don't know what a home
is out of it. Our birthplaces--yes, and our graves--are in all parts of the world."

"Were you ever in Scotland?"

"Never; and I dread nothing so much as being quartered there. Just imagine the trouble it would
be to go over the pedigree of every Keith I met, and to dine with them all upon haggis and
sheeps' head!"

"There's no place I want to sea as much as Scotland," said Rachel.

"Oh, yes! young ladies always do."

"It is not for a young lady reason," said Rachel, bluntly. "I want to understand the principle
of diffused education, as there practised. The only other places I should really care to see
are the Grand Reformatory for the Destitute in Holland, and the Hospital for Cretins in Switzerland."

"Scotch pedants, Dutch thieves, Swiss goitres--I will bear your tastes in mind," said Mr. Keith,
rising to take leave.

"Really," said Rachel, when he was gone, "if he had not that silly military tone of joking,
there might be something tolerable about him if he got into good hands. He seems to have some
good notions about his sister. She must be just out of the school-room, at the very turn of
life, and I will try to get her into my training and show her a little of the real beauty and
usefulness of the career she has before her. How late he has stayed! I am afraid there is no
time for the manuscripts."

And though Ermine was too honest to say she was sorry, Rachel did not miss the regret.

Colonel Keith came the next day, and under his arm was a parcel, which was laid in little Rose's
arms, and, when unrolled, proved to contain a magnificent wax doll, no doubt long the object
of unrequited attachment to many a little Avoncestrian, a creature of beauteous and unmeaning
face, limpid eyes, hair that could be brushed, and all her members waxen, as far as could be
seen below the provisional habiliment of pink paper that enveloped her. Little Rose's complexion
became crimson, and she did not utter a word, while her aunt, colouring almost as much, laughed
and asked where were her thanks.

"Oh!" with a long gasp, "it can't be for me!"

"Do you think it is for your aunt?" said the Colonel.

"Oh, thank you! But such a beautiful creature for me!" said Rose, with another gasp, quite
oppressed. "Aunt Ermine, how shall I ever make her clothes nice enough?"

"We will see about that, my dear. Now take her into the verandah and introduce her to Violetta."

"Yes;" then pausing and looking into the fixed eyes, "Aunt Ermine, I never saw such a beauty,
except that one the little girl left behind on the bench on the esplanade, when Aunt Ailie
said I should he coveting if I went on wishing Violetta was like her."

"I remember," said Ermine, "I have heard enough of that 'ne plus ultra' of doll! Indeed, Colin,
you have given a great deal of pleasure, where the materials of pleasure are few. No one can
guess the delight a doll is to a solitary imaginative child."

"Thank you," he said, smiling.

"I believe I shall enjoy it as much as Rose," added Ermine, "both for play and as a study.
Please turn my chair a little this way, I want to see the introduction to Violetta. Here comes
the beauty, in Rose's own cloak."

Colonel Keith leant over the back of her chair and silently watched, but the scene was not
quite what they expected. Violetta was sitting in her "slantingdicular" position on her chair
placed on a bench, and her little mistress knelt down before her, took her in her arms, and
began to hug her.

"Violetta, darling, you need not be afraid! There is a new beautiful creature come, and I shall
call her Colinette, and we must be very kind to her, because Colonel Keith is so good, and
knows your grandpapa; and to tell you a great secret, Violetta, that you must not tell Colinette
or anybody, I think he is Aunt Ermine's own true knight."

"Hush!" whispered the Colonel, over Ermine's head, as he perceived her about to speak.

"So you must be very good to her, Violetta, and you shall help me make her clothes; but you
need not be afraid I ever could love any one half or one quarter as much as you, my own dear
child, not if she were ten times as beautiful, and so come and show her to Augustus. She'll
never be like you, dear old darling."

"It is a study," said the Colonel, as Rose moved off with a doll in either hand; "a moral that
you should take home."

Ermine shook her head, but smiled, saying, "Tell me, does your young cousin know--"

"Alick Keith! Not from me, and Lady Temple is perfectly to be trusted; but I believe his father
knew it was for no worse reason that I was made to exchange. But never mind, Ermine, he is
a very good fellow, and what is the use of making a secret of what even Violetta knows?"

There was no debating the point, for her desire of secrecy was prompted by the resolution to
leave him unbound, whereas his wish for publicity was with the purpose of binding himself,
and Ermine was determined that discussion was above all to be avoided, and that she would,
after the first explanation, keep the conversation upon other subjects. So she only answered
with another reproving look and smile, and said, "And now I am going to make you useful. The
editor of the 'Traveller' is travelling, and has left his work to me. I have been keeping some
letters for him to answer in his own hand, because mine betrays womanhood; but I have just
heard that he is to stay about six weeks more, and people must be put out of their misery before
that. Will you copy a few for me? Here is some paper with the office stamp."

"What an important woman you are, Ermine."

"If you had been in England all this time, you would see how easy the step is into literary
work; but you must not betray this for the 'Traveller's' sake or Ailie's."

"Your writing is not very womanish," said the colonel, as she gave him his task. "Or is this
yours? It is not like that of those verses on Malvern hills that you copied out for me, the
only thing you ever gave me."

"I hope it is more to the purpose than it was then, and it has had to learn to write in all
sorts of attitudes."

"What's this?" as he went on with the paper; "your manuscript entitled 'Curatocult.' Is that
the word? I had taken it for the produce of Miss Curtis's unassisted genius."

"Have you heard her use it!" said Ermine, disconcerted, having by no means intended to betray
Rachel.

"Oh yes! I heard her declaiming on Sunday about what she knows no more about than Conrade!
A detestable, pragmatical, domineering girl! I am thankful that I advised Lady Temple only
to take the house for a year. It was right she should see her relations, but she must not be
tyrannized over."

"I don't believe she dislikes it."

"She dislikes no one! She used to profess a liking for a huge Irishwoman, whose husband had
risen from the ranks; the most tremendous woman I ever saw, except Miss Curtis."

"You know they were brought up together like sisters."

"All the worse, for she has the habit of passive submission. If it were the mother it would
be all right, and I should be thankful to see her in good keeping, but the mother and sister
go for nothing, and down comes this girl to battle every suggestion with principles picked
up from every catchpenny periodical, things she does not half understand, and enunciates as
if no one had even heard of them before."

"I believe she seldom meets any one who has. I mean to whom they are matters of thought. I
really do like her vigour and earnestness."

"Don't say so, Ermine! One reason why she is so intolerable to me is that she is a grotesque
caricature of what you used to be."

"You have hit it! I see why I always liked her, besides that it is pleasant to have any sort
of visit, and a good scrimmage is refreshing; she is just what I should have been without papa
and Edward to keep me down, and without the civilizing atmosphere at the park."

"Never."

"No, I was not her equal in energy and beneficence, and I was younger when you came. But I
feel for her longing to be up and doing, and her puzzled chafing against constraint and conventionality,
though it breaks out in very odd effervescences."

"Extremely generous of you when you must be bored to death with her interminable talk."

"You don't appreciate the pleasure of variety! Besides, she really interests me, she is so
full of vigorous crudities. I believe all that is unpleasing in her arises from her being considered
as the clever woman of the family; having no man nearly connected enough to keep her in check,
and living in society that does not fairly meet her. I want you to talk to her, and take her
in hand."

"Me! Thank you, Ermine! Why, I could not even stand her talking about you, though she has the
one grace of valuing you."

"Then you ought, in common gratitude, for there is no little greatness of soul in patiently
coming down to Mackarel Lane to be snubbed by one's cousin's governess's sister."

"If you will come up to Myrtlewood, you don't know what you may do."

"No, you are to set no more people upon me, though Lady Temple's eyes are very wistful."

"I did not think you would have held out against her."

"Not when I had against you? No, indeed, though I never did see anybody more winning than she
is in that meek, submissive gentleness! Alison says she has cheered up and grown like another
creature since your arrival."

"And Alexander Keith's. Yes, poor thing, we have brought something of her own old world, where
she was a sort of little queen in her way. It is too much to ask me to have patience with these
relations, Ermine. If you could see the change from the petted creature she was with her mother
and husband, almost always the first lady in the place, and latterly with a colonial court
of her own, and now, ordered about, advised, domineered over, made nobody of, and taking it
as meekly and sweetly as if she were grateful for it! I verily believe she is! But she certainly
ought to come away."

"I am not so sure of that. It seems to me rather a dangerous responsibility to take her away
from her own relations, unless there were any with equal claims."

"They are her only relations, and her husband had none. Still to be under the constant yoke
of an overpowering woman with unfixed opinions seems to be an unmitigated evil for her and
her boys; and no one's feelings need be hurt by her fixing herself near some public school
for her sons' education. However, she is settled for this year, and at the end we may decide."

With which words he again applied himself to Ermine's correspondence, and presently completed
the letter, offering to direct the envelope, which she refused, as having one already directed
by the author. He rather mischievously begged to see it that he might judge of the character
of the writing, but this she resisted.

However, in four days' time there was a very comical twinkle in his eye, as he informed her
that the new number of the "Traveller" was in no favour at the Homestead, "there was such a
want of original thought in it." Ermine felt her imprudence in having risked the betrayal,
but all she did was to look at him with her full, steady eyes, and a little twist in each corner
of her mouth, as she said, "Indeed! Then we had better enliven it with the recollections of
a military secretary," and he was both convinced of what he guessed, and also that she did
not think it right to tell him; "But," he said, "there is something in that girl, I perceive,
Ermine; she does think for herself, and if she were not so dreadfully earnest that she can't
smile, she would be the best company of any of the party."

"I am so glad you think so! I shall be delighted if you will really talk to her, and help her
to argue out some of her crudities. Indeed she is worth it. But I suppose you will hardly stay
here long enough to do her any good."

"What, are you going to order me away?"

"I thought your brother wanted you at home."

"It is all very well to talk of an ancestral home, but when it consists of a tall, slim house,
with blank walls and pepper-box turrets, set down on a bleak hill side, and every one gone
that made it once a happy place, it is not attractive. Moreover, my only use there would be
to be kept as a tame heir, the person whose interference would be most resented, and I don't
recognise that duty."

"You are a gentleman at large, with no obvious duty," said Ermine, meditatively.

"What, none?" bending his head, and looking earnestly at her.

"Oh, if you come here out of duty--" she said archly, and with her merry laugh. "There, is
not that a nice occasion for picking a quarrel? And seriously," she continued, "perhaps it
might be good for you if we did. I am beginning to fear that I ought not to keep you lingering
here without purpose or occupation."

"Fulfil my purpose, and I will find occupation."

"Don't say that."

"This once, Ermine. For one year I shall wait in the hope of convincing you. If you do not
change, your mind in that time, I shall look for another staff appointment, to last till Rose
is ready for me."

The gravity of this conclusion made Ermine laugh. "That's what you learnt of your chief," she said.

"There would be less difference in age," he said. "Though I own I should like my widow to be
less helpless than poor little Lady Temple. So," he added, with the same face of ridiculous
earnest, "if you continue to reject me yourself, you will at least rear her with an especial
view to her efficiency in that capacity."

And as Rose at that critical moment looked in at the window, eager to be encouraged to come
and show Colinette's successful toilette, he drew her to him with the smile that had won her
whole heart, and listening to every little bit of honesty about "my work" and "Aunt Ermine's
work," he told her that he knew she was a very managing domestic character, perfectly equal
to the charge of both young ladies.

"Aunt Ermine says I must learn to manage, because some day I shall have to take care of papa."

"Yes," with his eyes on Ermine all the while, "learn to be a useful woman; who knows if we
shan't all depend on you by-and-by?"

"Oh do let me be useful to you," cried Rose; "I could hem all your handkerchiefs, and make
you a kettle-holder."

Ermine had never esteemed him more highly than when he refrained from all but a droll look,
and uttered not one word of the sportive courtship that is so peculiarly unwholesome and undesirable
with children. Perhaps she thought her colonel more a gentleman than she had done before, if
that were possible; and she took an odd, quaint pleasure in the idea of this match, often when
talking to Alison of her views of life and education, putting them in the form of what would
become of Rose as Lady Keith; and Colin kept his promise of making no more references to the
future. On moving into his lodgings, the hour for his visits was changed, and unless he went
out to dinner, he usually came in the evening, thus attracting less notice, and moreover rendering
it less easy to lapse into the tender subject, as Alison was then at home, and the conversation
was necessarily more general.

The afternoons were spent in Lady Temple's service. Instead of the orthodox dowager britchska
and pair, ruled over by a tyrannical coachman, he had provided her with a herd of little animals
for harness or saddle, and a young groom, for whom Coombe was answerable. Mrs. Curtis groaned
and feared the establishment would look flighty; but for the first time Rachel became the colonel's
ally. "The worst despotism practised in England," she said, "is that of coachmen, and it is
well that Fanny should be spared! The coachman who lived here when mamma was married, answered
her request to go a little faster, 'I shall drive my horses as I plazes,' and I really think
the present one is rather worse in deed, though not in word."

Moreover, Rachel smoothed down a little of Mrs. Curtis's uneasiness at Fanny's change of costume
at the end of her first year of widowhood, on the ground that Colonel Keith advised her to
ride with her sons, and that this was incompatible with weeds. "And dear Sir Stephen did so
dislike the sight of them," she added, in her simple, innocent way, as if she were still dressing
to please him.

"On the whole, mother," said Rachel, "unless there is more heart-break than Fanny professes,
there's more coquetry in a pretty young thing wearing a cap that says, 'come pity me,' than
in going about like other people."

"I only wish she could help looking like a girl of seventeen," sighed Mrs. Curtis. "If that
colonel were but married, or the other young man! I'm sure she will fall into some scrape;
she does not know how, out of sheer innocence."

"Well, mother, you know I always mean to ride with her, and that will be a protection."

"But, my dear, I am not sure about your riding with these gay officers; you never used to do
such things."

"At my age, mother, and to take care of Fanny."

And Mrs. Curtis, in her uncertainty whether to sanction the proceedings and qualify them, or
to make a protest--dreadful to herself, and more dreadful to Fanny,--yielded the point when
she found herself not backed up by her energetic daughter, and the cavalcade almost daily set
forth from Myrtlewood, and was watched with eyes of the greatest vexation, if not by kind Mrs.
Curtis, by poor Mr. Touchett, to whom Lady Temple's change of dress had been a grievous shock.
He thought her so lovely, so interesting, at first; and now, though it was sacrilege to believe
it of so gentle and pensive a face, was not this a return to the world? What had she to do
with these officers? How could her aunt permit it? No doubt it was all the work of his great
foe, Miss Rachel.

It was true that Rachel heartily enjoyed these rides. Hitherto she had been only allowed to
go out under the escort of her tyrant the coachman, who kept her in very strict discipline.
She had not anticipated anything much more lively with Fanny, her boys, and ponies; but Colonel
Keith had impressed on Conrade and Francis that they were their mother's prime protectors,
and they regarded her bridle-rein as their post, keeping watch over her as if her safety depended
on them, and ready to quarrel with each other if the roads were too narrow for all three to
go abreast. And as soon as the colonel had ascertained that she and they were quite sufficient
to themselves, and well guarded by Coombe in the rear, he ceased to regard himself as bound
to their company, but he and Rachel extended their rides in search of objects of interest.
She liked doing the honours of the county, and achieved expeditions which her coachman had
hitherto never permitted to her, in search of ruins, camps, churches, and towers. The colonel
had a turn for geology, though a wandering life even with an Indian baggage-train had saved
him from incurring her contempt for collectors; but he knew by sight the character of the conformations
of rocks, and when they had mounted one of the hills that surrounded Avonmouth, discerned by
the outline whether granite, gneiss, limestone, or slate formed the grander height beyond,
thus leading to schemes of more distant rides to verify the conjectures, which Rachel accepted
with the less argument, because sententious dogmatism was not always possible on the back of
a skittish black mare.

There was no concealing from herself that she was more interested by this frivolous military
society than by any she had ever previously met. The want of comprehension of her pursuits
in her mother's limited range of acquaintance had greatly conduced both to her over-weening
manner and to her general dissatisfaction with the world, and for the first time she was neither
succumbed to, giggled at, avoided, nor put down with a grave, prosy reproof. Certainly Alick
Keith, as every one called him, nettled her extremely by his murmured irony, but the acuteness
of it was diverting in such a mere lad, and showed that if he could only once be roused, he
might be capable of better things. There was an excitement in his unexpected manner of seeing
things that was engaging as well as provoking; and Rachel never felt content if he were at
Myrtlewood without her seeing him, if only because she began to consider him as more dangerous
than his elder namesake, and so assured of his position that he did not take any pains to assert
it, or to cultivate Lady Temple's good graces; he was simply at home and perfectly at ease
with her.

Colonel Keith's tone was different. He was argumentative where his young cousin was sarcastic.
He was reading some of the books over which Rachel had strained her capacities without finding
any one with whom to discuss them, since all her friends regarded them as poisonous; and even
Ermine Williams, without being shaken in her steadfast trust, was so haunted and distressed
in her lonely and unvaried life by the echo of these shocks to the faith of others, that absolutely
as a medical precaution she abstained from dwelling on them. On the other hand Colin Keith
liked to talk and argue out his impressions, and found in Rachel the only person with whom
the subject could be safely broached, and thus she for the first time heard the subjects fairly
handled. Hitherto she had never thought that justice was done to the argument except by a portion
of the press, that drew conclusions which terrified while they allured her, whereas she appreciated
the candour that weighed each argument, distinguishing principle from prejudice, and religious
faith from conventional construction, and in this measurement of minds she felt the strength,
and acuteness of powers superior to her own. He was not one of the men who prefer unintellectual
women. Perhaps clever men, of a profession not necessarily requiring constant brain work, are
not so much inclined to rest the mind with feminine empty chatter, as are those whose intellect
is more on the strain. At any rate, though Colonel Keith was attentive and courteous to every
one, and always treated Lady Temple as a prime minister might treat a queen, his tendency to
conversation with Rachel was becoming marked, and she grew increasingly prone to consult him.
The interest of this new intercourse quite took out the sting of disappointment, when again
Curatocult came back, "declined with thanks." Nay, before making a third attempt she hazarded
a question on his opinion of female authorship, and much to her gratification, and somewhat
to her surprise, heard that he thought it often highly useful and valuable.

"That is great candour. Men generally grudge whatever they think their own privilege."

"Many things can often be felt and expressed by an able woman better than by a man, and there
is no reason that the utterance of anything worthy to be said should be denied, provided it
is worthy to be said."

"Ah! there comes the hit. I wondered if you would get through without it."

"It was not meant as a hit. Men are as apt to publish what is not worth saying as women can
be, and some women are so conscientious as only to put forth what is of weight and value."

"And you are above wanting to silence them by palaver about unfeminine publicity?"

"There is no need of publicity. Much of the best and most wide-spread writing emanates from
the most quiet, unsuspected quarters."

"That is the benefit of an anonymous press."

"Yes. The withholding of the name prevents well-mannered people from treating a woman as an
authoress, if she does not proclaim herself one; and the difference is great between being
known to write, and setting up for an authoress."

"Between fact and pretension. But write or not write, there is an instinctive avoidance of
an intellectual woman."

"Not always, for the simple manner that goes with real superiority is generally very attractive.
The larger and deeper the mind, the more there would be of the genuine humbleness and gentleness
that a shallow nature is incapable of. The very word humility presupposes depth."

"I see what you mean," said Rachel. "Gentleness is not feebleness, nor lowness lowliness. There
must be something held back."

"I see it daily," said Colonel Keith; and for a moment he seemed about to add something, but
checked himself, and took advantage of an interruption to change the conversation.

"Superior natures lowly and gentle!" said Rachel to herself. "Am I so to him, then, or is he
deceiving himself? What is to be done? At my age! Such a contravention of my principles! A
soldier, an honourable, a title in prospect, Fanny's major! Intolerable! No, no! My property
absorbed by a Scotch peerage, when I want it for so many things! Never. I am sorry for him
though. It is hard that a man who can forgive a woman for intellect, should be thrown back
on poor little Fanny; and it is gratifying--. But I am untouched yet, and I will take care
of myself. At my age a woman who loves at all, loves with all the gathered force of her nature,
and I certainly feel no such passion. No, certainly not; and I am resolved not to be swept
along till I have made up my mind to yield to the force of the torrent. Let us see."

"Grace, my dear," said Mrs. Curtis, in one of her most confidential moments, "is not dear Rachel
looking very well? I never saw her dress so well put on."

"Yes, she is looking very handsome," said Grace. "I am glad she has consented to have her hair
in that now way, it is very becoming to her."

"I--I don't know that it is all the hair," said the mother, faltering, as if half ashamed of
herself; "but it seemed to me that we need not have been so uneasy about dear Fanny. I think,
don't you? that there may be another attraction. To be sure, it would be at a terrible distance
from us; but so good and kind as he is, it would be such a thing for you and Fanny as well--"
Grace gave a great start.

"Yes, my dear," Mrs. Curtis gently prosed on with her speculation, "she would be a dreadful
loss to us; but you see, so clever and odd as she is, and with such peculiar ideas, I should
be so thankful to see her in the hands of some good, sensible man that would guide her."

"But do you really think it is so, mother?"

"Mind, my dear, it is nothing to build on, but I cannot help being struck, and just thinking
to myself. I know you'll not say anything."

Grace felt much distressed after this communication had opened her eyes to certain little touches
of softening and consciousness that sat oddly enough on her sister. From the first avowal of
Colonel Keith's acquaintance with the Williamses, she had concluded him to be the nameless
lover, and had been disappointed that Alison, so far from completing the confidence, had become
more reserved than ever, leaving her to wonder whether he were indeed the same, or whether
his constancy had survived the change of circumstances. There were no grounds on which to found
a caution, yet Grace felt full of discomfort and distrust, a feeling shared by Alison, who
had never forgiven herself for her half confidence, and felt that it would be wiser to tell
the rest, but was withheld by knowing that her motive would actuate her sister to a contrary
course. That Colin should detach himself from her, love again, and marry, was what Ermine schooled
herself to think fitting; but Alison alternated between indignant jealousy for her sister,
and the desire to warn Rachel that she might at best win only the reversion of his heart. Ermine
was happy and content with his evening visits, and would not take umbrage at the daily rides,
nor the reports of drawing-room warfare, and Alison often wavered between the desire of preparing
her, and the doubt whether it were not cruel to inflict the present pain of want of confidence.
If that were a happy summer to some at Avonmouth, it was a very trying one to those two anxious,
yet apparently uninterested sisters, who were but lookers-on at the game that affected their
other selves.

At length, however, came a new feature into the quiet summer life at Avonmouth. Colin looked
in on Ermine one morning to announce, with shrugged shoulders, and a face almost making game
of himself, that his brother was coming! Lord Keith had been called to London on business,
and would extend his journey to come and see what his brother was doing.

"This comes of being the youngest of the family," observed Colin, meditatively. "One is never
supposed capable of taking care of one's self. With Keith I shall be the gay extravagant young
officer to the end of my days."

"You are not forgiving to your brother," said Ermine.

"You have it in your power to make me so," he said eagerly.

"Then you would have nothing to forgive," she replied, smiling.

Lady Temple's first thought was a renewal of her ardent wish that Ermine should be at Myrtlewood;
and that Mackarel Lane, and the governesship should be as much as possible kept out of sight.
Even Alison was on her side; not that she was ashamed of either, but she wished that Ermine
should see and judge with her own eyes of Colin's conduct, and also eagerly hailed all that
showed him still committed to her sister. She was proportionably vexed that he did not think
it expedient to harass Ermine with further invitations.

"My brother knows the whole," he said, "and I do not wish to attempt to conceal anything."

"I do not mean to conceal," faltered Fanny, "only I thought it might save a shock--appearances--he
might think better of it, if--"

"You thought only what was kind," answered the colonel, "and I thank you for it most warmly;
but this matter does not depend on my brother's consent, and even if it did, Ermine's own true
position is that which is most honourable to her."

Having said this, he was forced to console Fanny in her shame at her own kind attempt at this
gentle little feminine subterfuge. He gratified her, however, by not interfering with her hospitable
instincts of doing honour to and entertaining his brother, for whose sake her first approach
to a dinner party was given; a very small one, but treated by her and her household as a far
more natural occurrence than was any sort of entertainment at the Homestead. She even looked
surprised, in her quiet way, at Mrs. Curtis's proffers of assistance in the et ceteras, and
gratefully answered for Coombe's doing the right thing, without troubling herself further.
Mrs. Curtis was less easy in her mind, her housewifely soul questioned the efficiency of her
niece's establishment, and she was moreover persuaded that Lord Keith must be bent on inspecting
his brother's choice, while even Rachel felt as if the toils of fate were being drawn round
her, and let Grace embellish her for the dinner party, in an odd sort of mood, sometimes rejecting
her attempts at decoration, sometimes vouchsafing a glance at the glass, chiefly to judge whether
her looks were really as repellently practical and intellectual as she had been in the habit
of supposing. The wreath of white roses, which she wore for the first time, certainly had a
pleasing and softening effect, and she was conscious that she had never looked so well; then
was vexed at the solicitude with which her mother looked her over, and fairly blushed with
annoyance at the good lady's evident satisfaction.

But, after all, Rachel, at her best, could not have competed with the grace of the quiet little
figure that received them, the rich black silk giving dignity to the slender form, and a sort
of compromise between veil and cap sheltering the delicate fair face; and with a son on each
side, Fanny looked so touchingly proud and well supported, and the boys were so exultant and
admiring at seeing her thus dressed, that it was a very pretty sight, and struck the first
arrived of her guests, Mr. Touchett, quite dumb with admiration. Colonel Hammond, the two Keiths,
and their young kinsman, completed the party. Lord Keith of Gowanbrae was best described by
the said young kinsman's words "a long-backed Scotchman." He was so intensely Scottish that
he made his brother look and sound the same, whereas ordinarily neither air nor accent would
have shown the colonel's nation, and there was no definable likeness between them, except,
perhaps, the baldness of the forehead, but the remains of Lord Keith's hair were silvered red,
whereas Colin's thick beard and scanty locks were dark brown, and with a far larger admixture
of hoar-frost, though he was the younger by twenty years, and his brother's appearance gave
the impression of a far greater age than fifty-eight, there was the stoop of rheumatism, and
a worn, thin look on the face, with its high cheek bones, narrow lips, and cold eyes, by no
means winning. On the other hand, he was the most finished gentleman that Grace and Rachel
had ever encountered; he had all the gallant polish of manner that the old Scottish nobility
have inherited from the French of the old regime--a manner that, though Colin possessed all
its essentials, had been in some degree rubbed off in the frankness of his military life, but
which the old nobleman retained in its full perfection. Mrs. Curtis admired it extremely as
a specimen of the "old school," for which she had never ceased to mourn; and Rachel felt as
if it took her breath away by the likeness to Louis XIV.; but, strange to say, Lady Temple
acted as if she were quite in her element. It might be that the old man's courtesy brought
back to her something of the tender chivalry of her soldier husband, and that a sort of filial
friendliness had become natural to her towards an elderly man, for she responded at once, and
devoted herself to pleasing and entertaining him. Their civilities were something quite amusing
to watch, and in the evening, with a complete perception of his tastes, she got up a rubber
for him.

"Can you bear it? You will not like to play?" murmured the colonel to her, as he rung for the
cards, recollecting the many evenings of whist with her mother and Sir Stephen.

"Oh! I don't mind. I like anything like old times, and my aunt does not like playing--"

No, for Mrs. Curtis had grown up in a family where cards were disapproved, and she felt it
a sad fall in Fanny to be playing with all the skill of her long training, and receiving grand
compliments from Lord Keith on joint victories over the two colonels. It was a distasteful
game to all but the players, for Rachel felt slightly hurt at the colonel's defection, and
Mr. Touchett, with somewhat of Mrs. Curtis's feeling that it was a backsliding in Lady Temple,
suddenly grew absent in a conversation that he was holding with young Mr. Keith upon--of all
subjects in the world--lending library books, and finally repaired to the piano, where Grace
was playing her mother's favourite music, in hopes of distracting her mind from Fanny's enormity;
and there he stood, mechanically thanking Miss Curtis, but all the time turning a melancholy
eye upon the game. Alick Keith, meanwhile, sat himself down near Rachel and her mother, close
to an open window, for it was so warm that even Mrs. Curtis enjoyed the air; and perhaps because
that watching the colonel had made Rachel's discourses somewhat less ready than usual, he actually
obtained an interval in which to speak! He was going the next day to Bishops Worthy, there
to attend his cousin's wedding, and at the end of a fortnight to bring his sister for her visit
to Lady Temple. This sister was evidently his great care, and it needed but little leading
to make him tell a good deal about her. She had, it seemed, been sent home from the Cape at
about ten years old, when the regiment went to India, and her brother who had been at school,
then was with her for a short time before going out to join the regiment.

"Why," said Rachel, recovering her usual manner, "you have not been ten years in the army!"

"I had my commission at sixteen," he answered.

"You are not six-and-twenty!" she exclaimed.

"You are as right as usual," was the reply, with his odd little smile; "at least till the 1st
of August."

"My dear!" said her mother, more alive than Rachel to his amusement at her daughter's knowing
his age better than he did himself, but adding, politely, "you are hardly come to the time
of life for liking to hear that your looks deceived us."

"Boys are tolerated," he said, with a quick glance at Rachel; but at that moment something
many-legged and tickling flitted into the light, and dashed over her face. Mrs. Curtis was
by no means a strong-minded woman in the matter of moths and crane-flies, disliking almost
equally their sudden personal attentions and their suicidal propensities, and Rachel dutifully
started up at once to give chase to the father-long-legs, and put it out of window before it
had succeeded in deranging her mother's equanimity either by bouncing into her face, or suspending
itself by two or three legs in the wax of the candle. Mr. Keith seconded her efforts, but the
insect was both lively and cunning, eluding them with a dexterity wonderful in such an apparently
over-limbed creature, until at last it kindly rested for a moment with its wooden peg of a
body sloping, and most of its thread-like members prone upon a newspaper, where Rachel descended
on it with her pocket-handkerchief, and Mr. Keith tried to inclose it with his hands at the
same moment. To have crushed the fly would have been melancholy, to have come down on the young
soldier's fingers, awkward; but Rachel did what was even more shocking--her hands did descend
on, what should have been fingers, but they gave way under her--she felt only the leather of
the glove between her and the newspaper. She jumped and very nearly cried out, looking up with
an astonishment and horror only half reassured by his extremely amused smile. "I beg your pardon;
I'm so sorry--" she gasped confused.

"Inferior animals can dispense with a member more or less," he replied, giving her the other
corner of the paper, on which they bore their capture to the window, and shook it till it took
wing, with various legs streaming behind it. "That venerable animal is apparently indifferent
to having left a third of two legs behind him," and as he spoke he removed the already half
drawn-off left-hand glove, and let Rachel see for a moment that it had only covered the thumb,
forefinger, two joints of the middle, and one of the third; the little finger was gone, and
the whole hand much scarred. She was still so much dismayed that she gasped out the first question
she had ever asked him--

"Where--?"

"Not under the handkerchief," he answered, picking it up as if he thought she wanted convincing.
"At Delhi, I imagine."

At that moment, Grace, as an act of general beneficence certainly pleasing to her mother, began
to sing. It was a stop to all conversation, for Mrs. Curtis particularly disliked talking during
singing, and Rachel had to digest her discoveries at her leisure, as soon as she could collect
herself after the unnatural and strangely lasting sensation of the solid giving way. So Grace
was right, he was no boy, but really older than Fanny, the companion of her childhood, and
who probably would have married her had not the general come in the way! Here was, no doubt,
the real enemy, while they had all been thinking of Colonel Keith. A man only now expecting
his company! It would sound more absurd. Yet Rachel was not wont to think how things would
sound! And this fresh intense dislike provoked her. Was it the unsuitability of the young widow
remarrying? "Surely, surely, it must not be that womanhood in its contemptible side is still
so strong that I want to keep all for myself! Shame! And this may be the true life love, suppressed,
now able to revive! I have no right to be disgusted, I will watch minutely, and judge if he
will be a good guide and father to the boys, though it may save the colonel trouble. Pish!
what have I to do with either? Why should I think about them? Yet I must care for Fanny, I
must dislike to see her lower herself even in the eyes of the world. Would it really be lowering
herself? I cannot tell, I must think it out. I wish that game was over, or that Grace would
let one speak."

But songs and whist both lasted till the evening was ended by Lady Temple coming up to the
curate with her winnings and her pretty smile, "Please, Mr. Touchett, let this go towards some
treat for the school children. I should not like to give it in any serious way, you know, but
just for some little pleasure for them."

If she had done it on purpose, she could not have better freshly riveted his chains. That pensive
simplicity, with the smile of heartfelt satisfaction at giving pleasure to anybody, were more
and more engaging as her spirits recovered their tone, and the most unsatisfactory consideration
which Rachel carried away that evening was that Alexander Keith being really somewhat the senior,
if the improvement in Fanny's spirits were really owing to his presence, the objection on the
score of age would not hold. But, thought Rachel, Colonel Keith being her own, what united
power they should have over Fanny. Pooh! she had by no means resigned herself to have him,
though for Fanny's sake it might be well, and was there not a foolish prejudice in favour of
married women, that impeded the usefulness of single ones? However, if the stiff, dry old man
approved of her for her fortune's sake, that would be quite reason enough for repugnance.

The stiff old man was the pink of courtesy, and paid his respects in due order to his brother's
friends the next day, Colin attending in his old aide-de-camp fashion. It was curious to see
them together. The old peer was not at all ungracious to his brother; indeed, Colin had been
agreeably surprised by an amount of warmth and brotherliness that he had never experienced
from him before, as if old age had brought a disposition to cling to the remnant of the once
inconveniently large family, and make much of the last survivor, formerly an undesirable youngest
favourite, looked on with jealous eyes and thwarted and retaliated on for former petting, as
soon as the reins of government fell from the hands of the aged father. Now, the elder brother
was kind almost to patronizing, though evidently persuaded that Colin was a gay careless youth,
with no harm in him, but needing to be looked after; and as to the Cape, India, and Australia
being a larger portion of the world than Gowanbrae, Edinburgh, and London, his lordship would
be incredulous to the day of his death.

He paid his formal and gracious visits at Myrtlewood and the Homestead, and then supposed that
his brother would wish him to call upon "these unfortunate ladies." Colin certainly would have
been vexed if he had openly slighted them; but Alison, whom the brothers overtook on their
way into Mackarel Lane, did not think the colonel looked in the most felicitous frame of mind,
and thought the most charitable construction might be that he shared her wishes that she could
be a few minutes in advance; to secure that neither Rose's sports nor Colinette's toilette
were very prominent.

All was right, however; Ermine's taste for the fitness of things had trained Rose into keeping
the little parlour never in stiff array, but also never in a state to be ashamed of, and she
herself was sitting in the shade in the garden, whither, after the first introduction, Colin
and Rose brought seats; and the call, on the whole, went off extremely well. Ermine naver let
any one be condescending to her, and conducted the conversation with her usual graceful good
breeding, while the colonel, with Rose on his knee, half talked to the child, half listened
and watched.

As soon as he had deposited his brother at the hotel, he came back again, and in answer to
Ermine's "Well," he demanded, "What she thought of his brother, and if he were what she expected?"

"Very much, only older and feebler. And did he communicate his views of Mackarel Lane? I saw
him regarding, me as a species of mermaid or syren, evidently thinking it a great shame that
I have not a burnt face. If he had only known about Rose!"

"The worst of it is that he wants me to go home with him, and I am afraid I must do so, for
now that he and I are the last in the entail, there is an opportunity of making an arrangement
about the property, for which he is very anxious."

"Well, you know, I have long thought it would be very good for you."

"And when I am there I shall have to visit every one in the family;" and he looked into her
eyes to see if she would let them show concern, but she kept up their brave sparkle as she
still said, "You know you ought."

"Then you deliver me up to Keith's tender mercies till--"

"Till you have done your duty--and forgiven him."

"Remember, Ermine, I can't spend a winter in Scotland. A cold always makes the ball remind
me of its presence in my chest, and I was told that if I spent a winter at home, it must be
on the Devonshire coast."

"That ball is sufficient justification for ourselves, I allow," she said, that one little word
our making up for all that had gone before.

"And meantime you will write to me--about Rose's education."

"To be sure, or what would be the use of growing old?"

Alison felt savage all through this interview. That perfect understanding and the playful fiction
about waiting for Rose left him a great deal too free. Ermine might almost be supposed to want
to get rid of him, and even when he took leave she only remained for a few minutes leaning
her cheek on her hand, and scarcely indulged in a sigh before asking to be wheeled into the
house again, nor would she make any remark, save "It has been too bright a summer to last for
ever. It would be very wrong to wish him to stay dangling here. Let what will happen, he is
himself."

It sounded far too like a deliberate resignation of him, and persuasion that if he went he
would not return to be all he had been. However, the departure was not immediate, Lord Keith
had taken a fancy to the place and scenery, and wished to see all the lions of the neighbourhood,
so that there were various expeditions in the carriages or on horseback, in which he displayed
his grand courtesy to Lady Temple, and Rachel enjoyed the colonel's conversation, and would
have enjoyed it still more if she had not been tracing a meaning in every attention that he
paid her, and considering whether she was committing herself by receiving it. She was glad
he was going away that she might have time to face the subject, and make up her mind, for she
was convinced that the object of his journey was to make himself certain of his prospects.
When he said that he should return for the winter, and that he had too much to leave at Avonmouth
to stay long away from it, there must be a meaning in his words.

Ermine had one more visit from Lord Keith, and this time he came alone. He was in his most
gracious and courteous mood, and sat talking of indifferent things for some time, of his aunt
Lady Alison, and of Beauchamp in the old time, so that Ermine enjoyed the renewal of old associations
and names belonging to a world unlike her present one. Then he came to Colin, his looks and
his health, and his own desire to see him quit the army.

