Only one male of this species was secured, but the large testes gave all stages in abundance.
The chromosomes, however, were very small and too numerous, 40 in the spermatogonia (fig. 141).
The small chromosome is, nevertheless clearly distinguished in many of these plates (s). The
resting spermatogonium contains one very large plasmosome and often one or two smaller ones
(fig. 142, p). The unequal pair is seen in the growth stages (figs. 143, 144), and may frequently
be seen outside of the equatorial plate of the first spermatocyte spindle (fig. 146). In favorable
sections it may also be found in the plate among the other bivalents (fig. 147). Figure 145
is a prophase showing the bivalent chromosomes still connected by linin fibers. An equatorial
plate of the first division is shown in figure 148, and a pair of corresponding plates of the
second spermatocyte in figure 149. The small heterochromosome divides in the second spindle
in advance of the others as seen in figure 150. Therefore, although this form is not especially
favorable for detailed study on account of the large number of small chromosomes, the conditions
are evidently the same as in the other species described--an unsymmetrical heterochromosome
bivalent in the first spermatocyte, giving rise by the second maturation division to equal
numbers of dimorphic spermatozoa, one class receiving the large heterochromosome, the other
class the small one.

Doryphora decemlineata (Family Chrysomelidæ).

Doryphora decemlineata has been the most difficult one of the collection to work out satisfactorily.
The chromosomes in the spermatogonial plates were in most cases much tangled, and the behavior
of the heterochromosome pair was such as to suggest an "accessory chromosome" rather than an
unequal pair. Abundant material for the study of somatic cells was at hand, but nothing favorable
could be found in the sections.

Two spermatogonial plates, containing 36 chromosomes, are shown in figures 151 and 152 (plate
XII). The small heterochromosome (s) is slightly elongated. The synizesis and synapsis stages
are especially clear. The chromosomes, after the last spermatogonial mitosis go over immediately
into a synizesis stage consisting of a polarized group of short loops, which later straighten
and unite in pairs (figs. 153 and 154). From these loops are formed the spireme (figs. 155-158),
which splits and segments, producing various cross, dumb-bell, and ring forms (figs. 159-163).
As in most of the other species of Coleoptera, the unequal pair is not distinguishable until
the spireme stage. Figure 162 is an unusual prophase in which all of the equal pairs show a
longitudinal split as well as a transverse constriction, and the larger heterochromosome (l)
is also split. Figure 163 shows a somewhat later and more common prophase in which the unequal
pair, one ring, crosses, and dumb-bells may be seen. This figure, as well as figures 164-168,
show the unequal pair in various relations to the other chromosomes. This pair in Doryphora
consists of a large V-shaped chromosome with a small spherical one attached to it in different
positions. When the small one is behind the V, the group has the appearance of an orthopteran
"accessory."

Figures 169-171 show the separation of the two elements outside of the equatorial plate, while
in figure 168 the unequal pair is in line with the other chromosomes. In figure 172, an anaphase,
the unequal elements are barely separated, while the metakinesis of the other pairs is much
further advanced.

