But again, four is not necessary.  We do not, indeed, find verses in six groups, because there
is not room for six in the ten syllables; and we do not find verses of two, because one of
the main distinctions of verse from prose resides in the comparative shortness of the group;
but it is even common to find verses of three.  Five is the one forbidden number; because five
is the number of the feet; and if five were chosen, the two patterns would coincide, and that
opposition which is the life of verse would instantly be lost.  We have here a clue to the
effect of polysyllables, above all in Latin, where they are so common and make so brave an
architecture in the verse; for the polysyllable is a group of Nature's making.  If but some
Roman would return from Hades (Martial, for choice), and tell me by what conduct of the voice
these thundering verses should be uttered--'Aut Lacedoe- monium Tarentum,' for a case in point--I
feel as if I should enter at last into the full enjoyment of the best of human verses.

But, again, the five feet are all iambic, or supposed to be; by the mere count of syllables
the four groups cannot be all iambic; as a question of elegance, I doubt if any one of them
requires to be so; and I am certain that for choice no two of them should scan the same.  The
singular beauty of the verse analysed above is due, so far as analysis can carry us, part,
indeed, to the clever repetition of L, D, and N, but part to this variety of scansion in the
groups.  The groups which, like the bar in music, break up the verse for utterance, fall uniambically;
and in declaiming a so- called iambic verse, it may so happen that we never utter one iambic
foot.  And yet to this neglect of the original beat there is a limit.

'Athens, the eye of Greece, mother of arts,' {3}

is, with all its eccentricities, a good heroic line; for though it scarcely can be said to
indicate the beat of the iamb, it certainly suggests no other measure to the ear.  But begin

'Mother Athens, eye of Greece,'

or merely 'Mother Athens,' and the game is up, for the trochaic beat has been suggested.  The
eccentric scansion of the groups is an adornment; but as soon as the original beat has been
forgotten, they cease implicitly to be eccentric.  Variety is what is sought; but if we destroy
the original mould, one of the terms of this variety is lost, and we fall back on sameness.
Thus, both as to the arithmetical measure of the verse, and the degree of regularity in scansion,
we see the laws of prosody to have one common purpose: to keep alive the opposition of two
schemes simultaneously followed; to keep them notably apart, though still coincident; and to
balance them with such judicial nicety before the reader, that neither shall be unperceived
and neither signally prevail.

The rule of rhythm in prose is not so intricate.  Here, too, we write in groups, or phrases,
as I prefer to call them, for the prose phrase is greatly longer and is much more nonchalantly
uttered than the group in verse; so that not only is there a greater interval of continuous
sound between the pauses, but, for that very reason, word is linked more readily to word by
a more summary enunciation.  Still, the phrase is the strict analogue of the group, and successive
phrases, like successive groups, must differ openly in length and rhythm.  The rule of scansion
in verse is to suggest no measure but the one in hand; in prose, to suggest no measure at all.
Prose must be rhythmical, and it may be as much so as you will; but it must not be metrical.
It may be anything, but it must not be verse.  A single heroic line may very well pass and
not disturb the somewhat larger stride of the prose style; but one following another will produce
an instant impression of poverty, flatness, and disenchantment.  The same lines delivered with
the measured utterance of verse would perhaps seem rich in variety.  By the more summary enunciation
proper to prose, as to a more distant vision, these niceties of difference are lost.  A whole
verse is uttered as one phrase; and the ear is soon wearied by a succession of groups identical
in length.  The prose writer, in fact, since he is allowed to be so much less harmonious, is
condemned to a perpetually fresh variety of movement on a larger scale, and must never disappoint
the ear by the trot of an accepted metre.  And this obligation is the third orange with which
he has to juggle, the third quality which the prose writer must work into his pattern of words.
It may be thought perhaps that this is a quality of ease rather than a fresh difficulty; but
such is the inherently rhythmical strain of the English language, that the bad writer--and
must I take for example that admired friend of my boyhood, Captain Reid?--the inexperienced
writer, as Dickens in his earlier attempts to be impressive, and the jaded writer, as any one
may see for himself, all tend to fall at once into the production of bad blank verse.  And
here it may be pertinently asked, Why bad? And I suppose it might be enough to answer that
no man ever made good verse by accident, and that no verse can ever sound otherwise than trivial
when uttered with the delivery of prose.  But we can go beyond such answers.  The weak side
of verse is the regularity of the beat, which in itself is decidedly less impressive than the
movement of the nobler prose; and it is just into this weak side, and this alone, that our
careless writer falls.  A peculiar density and mass, consequent on the nearness of the pauses,
is one of the chief good qualities of verse; but this our accidental versifier, still following
after the swift gait and large gestures of prose, does not so much as aspire to imitate.  Lastly,
since he remains unconscious that he is making verse at all, it can never occur to him to extract
those effects of counterpoint and opposition which I have referred to as the final grace and
justification of verse, and, I may add, of blank verse in particular.

4.  Contents of the Phrase.--Here is a great deal of talk about rhythm--and naturally; for
in our canorous language rhythm is always at the door.  But it must not be forgotten that in
some languages this element is almost, if not quite, extinct, and that in our own it is probably
decaying.  The even speech of many educated Americans sounds the note of danger.  I should
see it go with something as bitter as despair, but I should not be desperate. As in verse no
element, not even rhythm, is necessary, so, in prose also, other sorts of beauty will arise
and take the place and play the part of those that we outlive.  The beauty of the expected
beat in verse, the beauty in prose of its larger and more lawless melody, patent as they are
to English hearing, are already silent in the ears of our next neighbours; for in France the
oratorical accent and the pattern of the web have almost or altogether succeeded to their places;
and the French prose writer would be astounded at the labours of his brother across the Channel,
and how a good quarter of his toil, above all invita Minerva, is to avoid writing verse.  So
wonderfully far apart have races wandered in spirit, and so hard it is to understand the literature
next door!

Yet French prose is distinctly better than English; and French verse, above all while Hugo
lives, it will not do to place upon one side.  What is more to our purpose, a phrase or a verse
in French is easily distinguishable as comely or uncomely.  There is then another element of
comeliness hitherto overlooked in this analysis: the contents of the phrase.  Each phrase in
literature is built of sounds, as each phrase in music consists of notes.  One sound suggests,
echoes, demands, and harmonises with another; and the art of rightly using these concordances
is the final art in literature. It used to be a piece of good advice to all young writers to
avoid alliteration; and the advice was sound, in so far as it prevented daubing.  None the
less for that, was it abominable nonsense, and the mere raving of those blindest of the blind
who will not see. The beauty of the contents of a phrase, or of a sentence, depends implicitly
upon alliteration and upon assonance.  The vowel demands to be repeated; the consonant demands
to be repeated; and both cry aloud to be perpetually varied.  You may follow the adventures
of a letter through any passage that has particularly pleased you; find it, perhaps, denied
a while, to tantalise the ear; find it fired again at you in a whole broadside; or find it
pass into congenerous sounds, one liquid or labial melting away into another.  And you will
find another and much stranger circumstance.  Literature is written by and for two senses:
a sort of internal ear, quick to perceive 'unheard melodies'; and the eye, which directs the
pen and deciphers the printed phrase.  Well, even as there are rhymes for the eye, so you will
find that there are assonances and alliterations; that where an author is running the open
A, deceived by the eye and our strange English spelling, he will often show a tenderness for
the flat A; and that where he is running a particular consonant, he will not improbably rejoice
to write it down even when it is mute or bears a different value.

Here, then, we have a fresh pattern--a pattern, to speak grossly, of letters--which makes the
fourth preoccupation of the prose writer, and the fifth of the versifier.  At times it is very
delicate and hard to perceive, and then perhaps most excellent and winning (I say perhaps);
but at times again the elements of this literal melody stand more boldly forward and usurp
the ear.  It becomes, therefore, somewhat a matter of conscience to select examples; and as
I cannot very well ask the reader to help me, I shall do the next best by giving him the reason
or the history of each selection.  The two first, one in prose, one in verse, I chose without
previous analysis, simply as engaging passages that had long re-echoed in my ear. {5}  The
next phrase is a period of repose, almost ugly in itself, both S and R still audible, and B
given as the last fulfilment of PVF.  In the next four phrases, from 'that never' down to 'run
for,' the mask is thrown off, and, but for a slight repetition of the F and V, the whole matter
turns, almost too obtrusively, on S and R; first S coming to the front, and then R.  In the
concluding phrase all these favourite letters, and even the flat A, a timid preference for
which is just perceptible, are discarded at a blow and in a bundle; and to make the break more
obvious, every word ends with a dental, and all but one with T, for which we have been cautiously
prepared since the beginning.  The singular dignity of the first clause, and this hammer-stroke
of the last, go far to make the charm of this exquisite sentence.  But it is fair to own that
S and R are used a little coarsely.

'In Xanady did Kubla Khan                 (KANDL) A stately pleasure dome decree,        (KDLSR)
Where Alph the sacred river ran,         (KANDLSR) Through caverns measureless to man,   (KANLSR)
Down to a sunless sea.' {6}                (NDLS)

Here I have put the analysis of the main group alongside the lines; and the more it is looked
at, the more interesting it will seem. But there are further niceties.  In lines two and four,
the current S is most delicately varied with Z.  In line three, the current flat A is twice
varied with the open A, already suggested in line two, and both times ('where' and 'sacred')
in conjunction with the current R.  In the same line F and V (a harmony in themselves, even
when shorn of their comrade P) are admirably contrasted.  And in line four there is a marked
subsidiary M, which again was announced in line two.  I stop from weariness, for more might
yet be said.

My next example was recently quoted from Shakespeare as an example of the poet's colour sense.
Now, I do not think literature has anything to do with colour, or poets anyway the better of
such a sense; and I instantly attacked this passage, since 'purple' was the word that had so
pleased the writer of the article, to see if there might not be some literary reason for its
use.  It will be seen that I succeeded amply; and I am bound to say I think the passage exceptional
in Shakespeare--exceptional, indeed, in literature; but it was not I who chose it.  Indeed,
the whole passage is a monument of curious ingenuity; and it seems scarce worth while to indicate
the subsidiary S, L, and W.  In the same article, a second passage from Shakespeare was quoted,
once again as an example of his colour sense:

'A mole cinque-spotted like the crimson drops I' the bottom of a cowslip.' {8}

It is very curious, very artificial, and not worth while to analyse at length:  I leave it
to the reader.  But before I turn my back on Shakespeare, I should like to quote a passage,
for my own pleasure, and for a very model of every technical art:

But in the wind and tempest of her frown, W. P. V.{9} F. (st) (ow) Distinction with a loud
and powerful fan, W.P. F. (st) (ow) L.

Puffing at all, winnows the light away; W. P. F. L. And what hath mass and matter by itself
W. F. L. M. A. Lies rich in virtue and unmingled.' {10} V. L. M.

From these delicate and choice writers I turned with some curiosity to a player of the big
drum--Macaulay.  I had in hand the two- volume edition, and I opened at the beginning of the
second volume. Here was what I read:

'The violence of revolutions is generally proportioned to the degree of the maladministration
which has produced them.  It is therefore not strange that the government of Scotland, having
been during many years greatly more corrupt than the government of England, should have fallen
with a far heavier ruin.  The movement against the last king of the house of Stuart was in
England conservative, in Scotland destructive.  The English complained not of the law, but
of the violation of the law.'

This was plain-sailing enough; it was our old friend PVF, floated by the liquids in a body;
but as I read on, and turned the page, and still found PVF with his attendant liquids, I confess
my mind misgave me utterly.  This could be no trick of Macaulay's; it must be the nature of
the English tongue.  In a kind of despair, I turned half-way through the volume; and coming
upon his lordship dealing with General Cannon, and fresh from Claverhouse and Killiecrankie,
here, with elucidative spelling, was my reward:

'Meanwhile the disorders of Kannon's Kamp went on inKreasing.  He Kalled a Kouncil of war to
Konsider what Kourse it would be advisable to taKe.  But as soon as the Kouncil had met, a
preliminary Kuestion was raised.  The army was almost eKsKlusively a Highland army.  The recent
vKktory had been won eKsKlusively by Highland warriors.  Great chieFs who had brought siKs
or SeVen hundred Fighting men into the Field did not think it Fair that they should be outVoted
by gentlemen From Ireland, and From the Low Kountries, who bore indeed King James's Kommission,
and were Kalled Kolonels and Kaptains, but who were Kolonels without regiments and Kaptains
without Kompanies.'

A moment of FV in all this world of K's!  It was not the English language, then, that was an
instrument of one string, but Macaulay that was an incomparable dauber.

It was probably from this barbaric love of repeating the same sound, rather than from any design
of clearness, that he acquired his irritating habit of repeating words; I say the one rather
than the other, because such a trick of the ear is deeper-seated and more original in man than
any logical consideration.  Few writers, indeed, are probably conscious of the length to which
they push this melody of letters.  One, writing very diligently, and only concerned about the
meaning of his words and the rhythm of his phrases, was struck into amazement by the eager
triumph with which he cancelled one expression to substitute another.  Neither changed the
sense; both being mono-syllables, neither could affect the scansion; and it was only by looking
back on what he had already written that the mystery was solved:  the second word contained
an open A, and for nearly half a page he had been riding that vowel to the death.

In practice, I should add, the ear is not always so exacting; and ordinary writers, in ordinary
moments, content themselves with avoiding what is harsh, and here and there, upon a rare occasion,
buttressing a phrase, or linking two together, with a patch of assonance or a momentary jingle
of alliteration.  To understand how constant is this preoccupation of good writers, even where
its results are least obtrusive, it is only necessary to turn to the bad.  There, indeed, you
will find cacophony supreme, the rattle of incongruous consonants only relieved by the jaw-breaking
hiatus, and whole phrases not to be articulated by the powers of man.

Conclusion.--We may now briefly enumerate the elements of style. We have, peculiar to the prose
writer, the task of keeping his phrases large, rhythmical, and pleasing to the ear, without
ever allowing them to fall into the strictly metrical:  peculiar to the versifier, the task
of combining and contrasting his double, treble, and quadruple pattern, feet and groups, logic
and metre-- harmonious in diversity:  common to both, the task of artfully combining the prime
elements of language into phrases that shall be musical in the mouth; the task of weaving their
argument into a texture of committed phrases and of rounded periods--but this particularly
binding in the case of prose:  and, again common to both, the task of choosing apt, explicit,
and communicative words. We begin to see now what an intricate affair is any perfect passage;
how many faculties, whether of taste or pure reason, must be held upon the stretch to make
it; and why, when it is made, it should afford us so complete a pleasure.  From the arrangement
of according letters, which is altogether arabesque and sensual, up to the architecture of
the elegant and pregnant sentence, which is a vigorous act of the pure intellect, there is
scarce a faculty in man but has been exercised.  We need not wonder, then, if perfect sentences
are rare, and perfect pages rarer.

THE MORALITY OF THE PROFESSION OF LETTERS {11}

The profession of letters has been lately debated in the public prints; and it has been debated,
to put the matter mildly, from a point of view that was calculated to surprise high-minded
men, and bring a general contempt on books and reading.  Some time ago, in particular, a lively,
pleasant, popular writer {12} devoted an essay, lively and pleasant like himself, to a very
encouraging view of the profession.  We may be glad that his experience is so cheering, and
we may hope that all others, who deserve it, shall be as handsomely rewarded; but I do not
think we need be at all glad to have this question, so important to the public and ourselves,
debated solely on the ground of money.  If the writer to whom I refer succeeds in persuading
a number of young persons to adopt this way of life with an eye set singly on the livelihood,
we must expect them in their works to follow profit only, and we must expect in consequence,
if he will pardon me the epithets, a slovenly, base, untrue, and empty literature.  Of that
writer himself I am not speaking:  he is diligent, clean, and pleasing; we all owe him periods
of entertainment, and he has achieved an amiable popularity which he has adequately deserved.
But the truth is, he does not, or did not when he first embraced it, regard his profession
from this purely mercenary side.  He went into it, I shall venture to say, if not with any
noble design, at least in the ardour of a first love; and he enjoyed its practice long before
he paused to calculate the wage.  The other day an author was complimented on a piece of work,
good in itself and exceptionally good for him, and replied, in terms unworthy of a commercial
traveller that as the book was not briskly selling he did not give a copper farthing for its
merit. It must not be supposed that the person to whom this answer was addressed received it
as a profession of faith; he knew, on the other hand, that it was only a whiff of irritation;
just as we know, when a respectable writer talks of literature as a way of life, like shoemaking,
but not so useful, that he is only debating one aspect of a question, and is still clearly
conscious of a dozen others more important in themselves and more central to the matter in
hand.  But while those who treat literature in this penny-wise and virtue-foolish spirit are
themselves truly in possession of a better light, it does not follow that the treatment is
decent or improving, whether for themselves or others.  To treat all subjects in the highest,
the most honourable, and the pluckiest spirit, consistent with the fact, is the first duty
of a writer.  If he be well paid, as I am glad to hear he is, this duty becomes the more urgent,
the neglect of it the more disgraceful.  And perhaps there is no subject on which a man should
speak so gravely as that industry, whatever it may be, which is the occupation or delight of
his life; which is his tool to earn or serve with; and which, if it be unworthy, stamps himself
as a mere incubus of dumb and greedy bowels on the shoulders of labouring humanity.  On that
subject alone even to force the note might lean to virtue's side.  It is to be hoped that a
numerous and enterprising generation of writers will follow and surpass the present one; but
it would be better if the stream were stayed, and the roll of our old, honest English books
were closed, than that esurient book-makers should continue and debase a brave tradition, and
lower, in their own eyes, a famous race.  Better that our serene temples were deserted than
filled with trafficking and juggling priests.  Literature, like any other art, is singularly
interesting to the artist; and, in a degree peculiar to itself among the arts, it is useful
to mankind.  These are the sufficient justifications for any young man or woman who adopts
it as the business of his life.  I shall not say much about the wages. A writer can live by
his writing.  If not so luxuriously as by other trades, then less luxuriously.  The nature
of the work he does all day will more affect his happiness than the quality of his dinner at
night.  Whatever be your calling, and however much it brings you in the year, you could still,
you know, get more by cheating.  Now Nature, faithfully followed, proves herself a careful
mother.  A lad, for some liking to the jingle of words, betakes himself to letters for his
life; by-and-by, when he learns more gravity, he finds that he has chosen better than he knew;
that if he earns little, he is earning it amply; that if he receives a small wage, he is in
a position to do considerable services; that it is in his power, in some small measure, to
protect the oppressed and to defend the truth.

This is to speak of literature at its highest; and with the four great elders who are still
spared to our respect and admiration, with Carlyle, Ruskin, Browning, and Tennyson before us,
it would be cowardly to consider it at first in any lesser aspect.  But while we cannot follow
these athletes, while we may none of us, perhaps, be very vigorous, very original, or very
wise, I still contend that, in the humblest sort of literary work, we have it in our power
either to do great harm or great good.  We may seek merely to please; we may seek, having no
higher gift, merely to gratify the idle nine days' curiosity of our contemporaries; or we may
essay, however feebly, to instruct.  In each of these we shall have to deal with that remarkable
art of words which, because it is the dialect of life, comes home so easily and powerfully
to the minds of men; and since that is so, we contribute, in each of these branches, to build
up the sum of sentiments and appreciations which goes by the name of Public Opinion or Public
Feeling.  The total of a nation's reading, in these days of daily papers, greatly modifies
the total of the nation's speech; and the speech and reading, taken together, form the efficient
educational medium of youth.  A good man or woman may keep a youth some little while in clearer
air; but the contemporary atmosphere is all-powerful in the end on the average of mediocre
characters.  The copious Corinthian baseness of the American reporter or the Parisian chroniquear,
both so lightly readable, must exercise an incalculable influence for ill; they touch upon
all subjects, and on all with the same ungenerous hand; they begin the consideration of all,
in young and unprepared minds, in an unworthy spirit; on all, they supply some pungency for
dull people to quote.  The mere body of this ugly matter overwhelms the rare utterances of
good men; the sneering, the selfish, and the cowardly are scattered in broad sheets on every
table, while the antidote, in small volumes, lies unread upon the shelf.  I have spoken of
the American and the French, not because they are so much baser, but so much more readable,
than the English; their evil is done more effectively, in America for the masses, in French
for the few that care to read; but with us as with them, the duties of literature are daily
neglected, truth daily perverted and suppressed, and grave subjects daily degraded in the treatment.
The journalist is not reckoned an important officer; yet judge of the good he might do, the
harm he does; judge of it by one instance only:  that when we find two journals on the reverse
sides of politics each, on the same day, openly garbling a piece of news for the interest of
its own party, we smile at the discovery (no discovery now!) as over a good joke and pardonable
stratagem. Lying so open is scarce lying, it is true; but one of the things that we profess
to teach our young is a respect for truth; and I cannot think this piece of education will
be crowned with any great success, so long as some of us practise and the rest openly approve
of public falsehood.

There are two duties incumbent upon any man who enters on the business of writing:  truth to
the fact and a good spirit in the treatment.  In every department of literature, though so
low as hardly to deserve the name, truth to the fact is of importance to the education and
comfort of mankind, and so hard to preserve, that the faithful trying to do so will lend some
dignity to the man who tries it.  Our judgments are based upon two things:  first, upon the
original preferences of our soul; but, second, upon the mass of testimony to the nature of
God, man, and the universe which reaches us, in divers manners, from without.  For the most
part these divers manners are reducible to one, all that we learn of past times and much that
we learn of our own reaching us through the medium of books or papers, and even he who cannot
read learning from the same source at second-hand and by the report of him who can.  Thus the
sum of the contemporary knowledge or ignorance of good and evil is, in large measure, the handiwork
of those who write.  Those who write have to see that each man's knowledge is, as near as they
can make it, answerable to the facts of life; that he shall not suppose himself an angel or
a monster; nor take this world for a hell; nor be suffered to imagine that all rights are concentred
in his own caste or country, or all veracities in his own parochial creed.  In one word, it
must always be foul to tell what is false; and it can never be safe to suppress what is true.
The very fact that you omit may be the fact which somebody was wanting, for one man's meat
is another man's poison, and I have known a person who was cheered by the perusal of Candide.
Every fact is a part of that great puzzle we must set together; and none that comes directly
in a writer's path but has some nice relations, unperceivable by him, to the totality and bearing
of the subject under hand.  Yet there are certain classes of fact eternally more necessary
than others, and it is with these that literature must first bestir itself.  They are not hard
to distinguish, nature once more easily leading us; for the necessary, because the efficacious,
facts are those which are most interesting to the natural mind of man.  Those which are coloured,
picturesque, human, and rooted in morality, and those, on the other hand, which are clear,
indisputable, and a part of science, are alone vital in importance, seizing by their interest,
or useful to communicate.  So far as the writer merely narrates, he should principally tell
of these.  He should tell of the kind and wholesome and beautiful elements of our life; he
should tell unsparingly of the evil and sorrow of the present, to move us with instances: 
he should tell of wise and good people in the past, to excite us by example; and of these he
should tell soberly and truthfully, not glossing faults, that we may neither grow discouraged
with ourselves nor exacting to our neighbours.  So the body of contemporary literature, ephemeral
and feeble in itself, touches in the minds of men the springs of thought and kindness, and
supports them (for those who will go at all are easily supported) on their way to what is true
and right. And if, in any degree, it does so now, how much more might it do so if the writers
chose!  There is not a life in all the records of the past but, properly studied, might lend
a hint and a help to some contemporary.  There is not a juncture in to-day's affairs but some
useful word may yet be said of it.  Even the reporter has an office, and, with clear eyes and
honest language, may unveil injustices and point the way to progress.  And for a last word:
in all narration there is only one way to be clever, and that is to be exact.  To be vivid
is a secondary quality which must presuppose the first; for vividly to convey a wrong impression
is only to make failure conspicuous.

But a fact may be viewed on many sides; it may be chronicled with rage, tears, laughter, indifference,
or admiration, and by each of these the story will be transformed to something else.  The newspapers
that told of the return of our representatives from Berlin, even if they had not differed as
to the facts, would have sufficiently differed by their spirits; so that the one description
would have been a second ovation, and the other a prolonged insult. The subject makes but a
trifling part of any piece of literature, and the view of the writer is itself a fact more
important because less disputable than the others.  Now this spirit in which a subject is regarded,
important in all kinds of literary work, becomes all-important in works of fiction, meditation,
or rhapsody; for there it not only colours but itself chooses the facts; not only modifies
but shapes the work.  And hence, over the far larger proportion of the field of literature,
the health or disease of the writer's mind or momentary humour forms not only the leading feature
of his work, but is, at bottom, the only thing he can communicate to others.  In all works
of art, widely speaking, it is first of all the author's attitude that is narrated, though
in the attitude there be implied a whole experience and a theory of life. An author who has
begged the question and reposes in some narrow faith cannot, if he would, express the whole
or even many of the sides of this various existence; for, his own life being maim, some of
them are not admitted in his theory, and were only dimly and unwillingly recognised in his
experience.  Hence the smallness, the triteness, and the inhumanity in works of merely sectarian
religion; and hence we find equal although unsimilar limitation in works inspired by the spirit
of the flesh or the despicable taste for high society.  {13}

The second duty, far harder to define, is moral.  There are a thousand different humours in
the mind, and about each of them, when it is uppermost, some literature tends to be deposited.
Is this to be allowed?  Not certainly in every case, and yet perhaps in more than rigourists
would fancy.  It were to be desired that all literary work, and chiefly works of art, issued
from sound, human, healthy, and potent impulses, whether grave or laughing, humorous, romantic,
or religious.

Yet it cannot be denied that some valuable books are partially insane; some, mostly religious,
partially inhuman; and very many tainted with morbidity and impotence.  We do not loathe a
masterpiece although we gird against its blemishes.  We are not, above all, to look for faults,
but merits.  There is no book perfect, even in design; but there are many that will delight,
improve, or encourage the reader.  On the one hand, the Hebrew psalms are the only religious
poetry on earth; yet they contain sallies that savour rankly of the man of blood.  On the other
hand, Alfred de Musset had a poisoned and a contorted nature; I am only quoting that generous
and frivolous giant, old Dumas, when I accuse him of a bad heart; yet, when the impulse under
which he wrote was purely creative, he could give us works like Carmosine or Fantasio, in which
the last note of the romantic comedy seems to have been found again to touch and please us.
When Flaubert wrote Madame Bovary, I believe he thought chiefly of a somewhat morbid realism;
and behold! the book turned in his hands into a masterpiece of appalling morality.  But the
truth is, when books are conceived under a great stress, with a soul of ninefold power, nine
times heated and electrified by effort, the conditions of our being are seized with such an
ample grasp, that, even should the main design be trivial or base, some truth and beauty cannot
fail to be expressed.  Out of the strong comes forth sweetness; but an ill thing poorly done
is an ill thing top and bottom.  And so this can be no encouragement to knock-kneed, feeble-wristed
scribes, who must take their business conscientiously or be ashamed to practise it.

