 I hurried after her, and on the landing standing,
I called after her: Barbara! I heard that they stopped on the stairs. How do I but went down
the first stage, she spoke from the bottom up: Stay! and the stairs completely down and out to
the gate. I
must not expose any professional man to ruin by connecting his name with the entire freedom
of criticism which I, as a layman, enjoy; but it will be evident to all experts that my play
could not have been written but for the work done by Sir Almroth Wright in the theory and practice
of securing immunization from bacterial diseases by the inoculation of "vaccines" made of their
own bacteria: a practice incorrectly called vaccinetherapy (there is nothing vaccine about
it) apparently because it is what vaccination ought to be and is not. Until Sir Almroth Wright,
following up one of Metchnikoff's most suggestive biological romances, discovered that the
white corpuscles or phagocytes which attack and devour disease germs for us do their work only
when we butter the disease germs appetizingly for them with a natural sauce which Sir Almroth
named opsonin, and that our production of this condiment continually rises and falls rhythmically
from negligibility to the highest efficiency, nobody had been able even to conjecture why the
various serums that were from time to time introduced as having effected marvellous cures,
presently made such direful havoc of some unfortunate patient that they had to be dropped hastily.
The quantity of sturdy lying that was necessary to save the credit of inoculation in those
days was prodigious; and had it not been for the devotion shown by the military authorities
throughout Europe, who would order the entire disappearance of some disease from their armies,
and bring it about by the simple plan of changing the name under which the cases were reported,
or for our own Metropolitan Asylums Board, which carefully suppressed all the medical reports
that revealed the sometimes quite appalling effects of epidemics of revaccination, there is
no saying what popular reaction might not have taken place against the whole immunization movement
in therapeutics.

The situation was saved when Sir Almroth Wright pointed out that if you inoculated a patient
with pathogenic germs at a moment when his powers of cooking them for consumption by the phagocytes
was receding to its lowest point, you would certainly make him a good deal worse and perhaps
kill him, whereas if you made precisely the same inoculation when the cooking power was rising
to one of its periodical climaxes, you would stimulate it to still further exertions and produce
just the opposite result. And he invented a technique for ascertaining in which phase the patient
happened to be at any given moment. The dramatic possibilities of this discovery and invention
will be found in my play. Take it off
return his absence, I purposely dropped the hat after I more Funds had already tried unsuccessfully.
The old man started, his knees trembled, barely he could keep the violin to the floor lowered.
I joined them. "Oh, it's you, my Lord, "he said, as if coming to himself." I was not high on
your performance Promise expected. "He forced me to sit, admitted to, put down, saw a few times
move around the room, then suddenly took a side on a table of Stubentuer stationary plate,
and went with the same addition to that. I heard him out with the gardener's wife . Speak Soon
after he came through the door move, he said the plate behind the Standing back and hid in secret again
hinstellte. He had obviously requires fruit to keep me host, it can not be retained. "You live
here quite handsome," I said to his to make embarrassment to an end. "The disorder is made.
She takes her retreat by the door if they also still not completely over the threshold .-- My apartment
is sufficient only up to the lines, "said the old man, taking on the chalk line in the middle
of the room showed. "Over there live two journeymen ."--" And you would trust your name ?"--"
not, but I do, "he said." Only the door is jointly ."--" And you will not be disturbed ?"--" of
your neighborhood soon, "he said." They come late at night home, and if they tell me there a little scare
in bed, so for that is the pleasure of falling asleep again so much bigger. In the morning, but I'll
wake you when I get my room in order. Since scold them probably a little and go. "I had seen
him while his. He was very neatly dressed, the figure good enough for his years, only the legs a bit
too short. Hand and foot of striking tenderness .-- "You look at me," he said, "and have it
your thought that ?"--" I am eager for your story, "I replied .--" history, "he repeated." I have
no history. Today as yesterday, and tomorrow is today. the day after tomorrow and of course more
also, who knows? But God will provide, knows it "-" your present life may well be monotonous enough, "I continued,"
but their former fate. As it happened - " "The fact that I came to the music people?" he fell
into the break, I made involuntarily had. I then told him how he struck me at first sight, the
impression the Latin words spoken by him would have made on me. "Latin", sounded after it.
"Latin?" I have certainly learned one or rather it would have to learn can and should. Loqueris latine?
"He turned to me," but I could not . Continue It is so very long ago. So that you give my story?
How did - Yes so! because there's certainly done all sorts, nothing special, but all kinds.
Would like I even tell it's once again. Whether it's even forget I have not. It is still early
in the morning, "he continued, and he felt in his watch pocket, in which no course I moved the
clock was .-- mean, it was hardly 9 clock .-- "We have time, and almost comes to me desire
to talk to. "It was during the last become increasingly relaxed. His Figure will be increased.
He took me without further ado the hat from his hand and put him on the bed; beat sitting a
leg over the other and took over the position of a main with stories from convenience.

"They" - he began - "without doubt by the Councilor - heard?" Here he mentioned the name of Statesman,
the modest under the [second] half of the last century the Title of a bureau chiefs had exercised
an immense, almost ministeraehnlichen influence. I said yes, my knowledge of the man.
 Add to them
a good deal of vegetarian and teetotal controversy raging round a clamor for scientific eating
and drinking, and resulting in little so far except calling digestion Metabolism and dividing
the public between the eminent doctor who tells us that we do not eat enough fish, and his
equally eminent colleague who warns us that a fish diet must end in leprosy, and you have all
that opposes with any sort of countenance the rise of Christian Science with its cathedrals
and congregations and zealots and miracles and cures: all very silly, no doubt, but sane and
sensible, poetic and hopeful, compared to the pseudo science of the commercial general practitioner,
who foolishly clamors for the prosecution and even the execution of the Christian Scientists
when their patients die, forgetting the long death roll of his own patients.

By the time this preface is in print the kaleidoscope may have had another shake; and opsonin
may have gone the way of phlogiston at the hands of its own restless discoverer. I will not
say that Hahnemann may have gone the way of Diafoirus; for Diafoirus we have always with us.
But we shall still pick up all our knowledge in pursuit of some Will o' the Wisp or other.
What is called science has always pursued the Elixir of Life and the Philosopher's Stone, and
is just as busy after them to-day as ever it was in the days of Paracelsus. We call them by
different names: Immunization or Radiology or what not; but the dreams which lure us into the
adventures from which we learn are always at bottom the same. Science becomes dangerous only
when it imagines that it has reached its goal. What is wrong with priests and popes is that
instead of being apostles and saints, they are nothing but empirics who say "I know" instead
of "I am learning," and pray for credulity and inertia as wise men pray for scepticism and
activity. Such abominations as the Inquisition and the Vaccination Acts are possible only in
the famine years of the soul, when the great vital dogmas of honor, liberty, courage, the kinship
of all life, faith that the unknown is greater than the known and is only the As Yet Unknown,
and resolution to find a manly highway to it, have been forgotten in a paroxysm of littleness
and terror in which nothing is active except concupiscence and the fear of death, playing on
which any trader can filch a fortune, any blackguard gratify his cruelty, and any tyrant make
us his slaves.

Lest this should seem too rhetorical a conclusion for our professional men of science, who
are mostly trained not to believe anything unless it is worded in the jargon of those writers
who, because they never really understand what they are trying to say, cannot find familiar
words for it, and are therefore compelled to invent a new language of nonsense for every book
they write, let me sum up my conclusions as dryly as is consistent with accurate thought and
live conviction. 

So I spent whole days, pondered and pondered. One evening at twilight - it was the time I used
to habitually spend in the store - I sat back and put me in mind at the usual place. I heard her
speak, revile me, so it seemed, they laughed at me. Suddenly I heard something on the door, she opened
and a woman came in it .-- Barbara .-- I was sitting in my chair nailed as if I saw a ghost. She was
pale and wore a bundle under his arm. come in the middle of the room, she stopped, looked
all around at the bare walls, then downward to the poor devices and sighed deep. Then she went
to the cupboard, which stood to the side of the wall, wrapped apart its package, which contained
some shirts and scarves - they had bought in the last time my laundry - pulled out the drawer, threw
up their hands when she saw the meager contents, began But a moment later to bring the clothes
in order to be classified and brought the pieces. Then she took a few steps away from the barrier,
and their eyes fixed on me, and they pointed the finger at the open drawer, she said: Five shirts and
three towels. So much I've had so much I get back. Then she pushed the drawer slowly too, rested
his hand on the closet and began to cry loudly. It almost seemed as if it would bad, because
she sat on a chair next to the barrier, hid her face in her handkerchief, and I heard from the
shock-fetched as breaths that they still constantly crying. I stepped quietly into their vicinity
and took her hand, which to me willingly left. But as I am to pull their eyes on me, down to
the limp arms hanging emporrueckte the elbow, she rose quickly, took her hand and said, in captive
Tone: What good is all this? It's like that. You have willed it, and us have made her unhappy, but
of course, itself the most. Actually earn Do not pity - this was always violent - if one is
so weak, his own stuff not to look down in order, so gullible that you trust anyone, no matter
whether it is a thief or an honest man - And yet there I am sorry for you.
 But the man who costs more than he is worth is doomed by sound hygiene
as inexorably as by sound economics.

12. Do not try to live for ever. You will not succeed.

13. Use your health, even to the point of wearing it out. That is what it is for. Spend all
you have before you die; and do not outlive yourself.

14. Take the utmost care to get well born and well brought up. This means that your mother
must have a good doctor. Be careful to go to a school where there is what they call a school
clinic, where your nutrition and teeth and eyesight and other matters of importance to you
will be attended to. Intimidated, humble,
trembling.

Mr. Tonidandel deplored the harassment of the old and made the archpriest with the Prota Contents of
the surprising regiment command known. It was the commander of a
lightning in the eyes. Otherwise
you will be what most people are at present: an unsound citizen of an unsound nation, without
sense enough to be ashamed or unhappy about it.