On the young James Drummond Duke of Perth, as chief of the House of Drummond, the eyes of the
Jacobites were turned, with expectations which were, to the utmost of the young nobleman's
power, fulfilled. It was by his mother's desire that he had been educated in France, where
he was confirmed in the principles of the Romish faith. He possessed, indeed, some acquirements,
and displayed certain qualities calculated to inspire hope in those who depended upon his exertions
that he would prove a valuable adherent to the cause. Naturally courageous, his military turn
had been improved by a knowledge of the theory of war: his disposition united great vivacity
to the endearing qualities of benevolence and liberality; he had the every-day virtues of good-nature,
mildness, and courtesy. His pursuits were creditable to a nobleman. He was skilled in mathematics,
an elegant draughtsman, a scholar in various languages, a general lover of literature, and
a patron of the liberal arts. Nor was a fondness for horse-racing, in which he indulged, and
in which his horses frequently bore away the prize, likely to render him unpopular in the eyes
of his countrymen. But there were some serious drawbacks to the utility of the young nobleman
as a public man.

His health, in the first place, was precarious. When a child, a barrel had been rolled over
him, and a bruise was received in his lungs, to the effects of which his friends attributed
a weakness and oppression from which he usually suffered at bed-time; when "he usually," as
a contemporary relates, "took a little boiled bread and milk, or some such gentle food."[218]
This was an inauspicious commencement of an active and anxious career. It was afterwards discovered,
that with all his acquirements and accomplishments, and with his natural gallantry, the Duke
was no practical soldier.

In obtaining an influence over the minds of his countrymen, the young Duke possessed one great
advantage. He was descended from a House noted for the highest principles of honour.[219]

"To give the reader an undeniable proof of the generous maxims of that House," says the author
of Lochiell's memoirs, "it will be proper to notice, that, by the laws of Scotland, no person
succeeding to an estate is, in a legal sense, vested in the property until he serves himself
heir to the person from whom he derives his title. The heir often took the advantage of this
when the creditors were negligent, and passing by his father, and perhaps his grandfather,
served heir to him who was last infefted; for unless they were actually seised of the estate
according to the forms of law, they were no more than simple possessors, and could not encumber
the land with any deed or debts; whereby the heir got clear of all that intervened betwixt
himself and the person whom he represented by his service. This was an unjustifiable practice,
which the diligence of creditors might always have prevented; and which is now wholly prevented
by an act of parliament obliging every one possessing an estate to pay the debts of his predecessors,
as well as his own, whether representing them by a service or not.

"But the House of Perth was always so firmly attached to honour and justice, that there are
no less than fifteen retours, descending lineally from father to son, extant among their records.

"Now a retour is a writ returned from the Court of Attorney, testifying the service of every
succeeding heir; and is therefore an unexceptionable evidence of paying his predecessor's debts,
and of performing his obligations and deeds. Such has been, and still is, the uniform practice
of the truly noble Lords of the House of Montrose and, perhaps, some others of the ancient
nobility have followed the same course, which will not only entail a blessing upon their family
and posterity, but will likewise be a perpetual memorial of their integrity, honour, and antiquity."

The young Duke of Perth fully maintained this high character of honour and liberal dealings,
and as a landholder and a chief, he would, had he been spared, have proved himself a valuable
member of society. He was, relates an historian, a father to the poor;--and the interval of
ten years between his return to Scotland and the Rebellion was engaged in establishing manufactures
for the employment of his tenantry, and in acts of beneficence. Unhappily, it was not long
before political combinations diverted the attention which was so well bestowed in the improvement
of his country.

In the beginning of the year 1740, seven persons of distinction signed the association, engaging
themselves to take arms, and to venture their lives and fortunes for the Stuarts. Among these
was the Duke of Perth. This association was committed to Drummond of Bochaldy, who, besides,
carried with him a list of those chiefs and chieftains who, the subscribers thought, were willing
to join them, should a body of troops land from France. This list contained so great a number
of names, that Murray of Broughton, in his evidence at the trial of Lord Lovat, said he considered
it to be "a general list of the Highlands;" a palpable refutation of the reasoning of those
who have represented the Jacobite insurrection as a partial and factious movement.

The Duke of Perth had now irrevocably pledged himself to engage in the cause, which required
a very different character of mind to that which he seems to have possessed. Like the unfortunate
Lord Derwentwater, he was calculated to adorn a smooth and prosperous course; but not to contend
with fiery spirits, nor to act in concert with overbearing tempers. Averse to interference,
and retiring in his disposition, the Duke was conceived, by those who mistook arrogance for
talent, to have been possessed of only limited abilities. The friend or relative who composed
the epitaph to his memory inscribed on the Duke's tomb at Antwerp, has borne testimony to the
strength of his understanding. All have coincided in commending the honour and faith which
procured him the respect of all parties, and the chivalric bravery which won him the affection
of the soldiery.

It is a melancholy task to trace the career of one so high-minded, so gentle, and so formed
to adorn the peaceful tenour of a country life, through scenes of turmoil, disaster, and dismay;
and, during the continuance of arduous exertions, to recall the slow and certain progress of
a fatal disease, which progressed during hardships too severe for the delicate frame of this
amiable young man to sustain without danger.

The younger brother of the Duke, Lord John Drummond, was constituted of different materials.
Courteous, honourable, and high-minded, like his brother, he added to those attributes of the
gentleman a strong capacity for military affairs, to which he had applied himself from his
earliest youth. Intrepid and resolute, the roughness of the soldier was softened in this fine
martial character by an elegance and ease of manner which sprang from a kind and gentle temper.
The energy of Lord John Drummond's mind was shown by the enlistment of the Scottish Legion,
under the protection of Louis the Fifteenth. In him the soldiers always knew that they had
a sure, and firm friend: like his brother, when on the conquering side, clemency and humanity
were never, even in the heat of victory, forgotten by the young general. Individuals like these
lamented and unfortunate brothers give a mournful interest to the history of the Jacobites.

