In making up a cast of flies, have no loops of any kind, excepting the one by which the cast
is attached to your silk-and-hair line. The water-knot is so simple and neat, that it is the
best for the purpose of fixing on the tail-fly, which, by the way, should be the heaviest of
those you are about to use, if there is any difference between them. In case our readers don't
know the water-knot, we give an illustration which explains itself--

The loops are pulled tight, and then the fly and the line are drawn in opposite directions,
the result being that the knots formed by the loops meet and make a firm, and at the same time
an almost imperceptible, joining. You then clip off any ends that may remain. So much for the
tail fly. The putting on of the other two is simplicity itself. You take the strand of gut
on which the next fly you purpose affixing is dressed, and laying it along the main line, taking
care to have the hook lying in the reverse direction from the tail fly, you tie it into the
line a yard from the fly already attached. In tying it in, leave the hook hanging about two
and a half inches from the line. The third, or "bob" fly, is attached in like manner, and thus
your cast of flies is completed. The only objection to this method of making up a cast is,
that once the middle and bob flies are tied in, they cannot be used again. This is quite true;
but the keen angler will submit to the little extra expense on this score for the gratification
which the sight of a really neat cast will afford him. The system of suspending hooks by loops,
especially when using fine tackle, is almost entirely exploded. We should have said that previous
to use, all gut should be soaked, and the longer the better. It is a good plan to let it soak
over night, and make up your cast in the morning. When gut is thus thoroughly wet, it is wonderful
how easy it is of manipulation. On the other hand, dry gut is very brittle, and will break
on the slightest provocation. Fix the cast and silk-and-hair line together, having previously
made a single knot on the end of the latter, as illustrated below--

It is prudent to have a second cast ready in case of breakage, as nothing is more annoying
than losing time making up one in the boat, and that most probably when the trout are rising.
Experience is a great teacher; and it is wonderful how soon the angler learns the value of
every moment, and seeks beforehand, so far as human foresight can go, to provide for all contingencies.

CHAPTER V.

TROLLING-TACKLE AND LURES.

Do not troll at all if you can get fishing with the fly; and under no circumstances troll for
trout in the very early part of the season, when they are more or less in a "kelty" state,
and take an artificial or other minnow very keenly. True, you may catch fish, but it is a most
unsportsmanlike proceeding to take fish not in fair condition; and if you, sir, who read this
book, are not a sportsman, you had better stop here, for it was compiled by a sportsman for
sportsmen. There are some miserable "pot-hunters" who want to kill anything that swims--be
it clean or unclean; but with them we have nothing whatever to do. But fair trolling is quite
legitimate, and in many cases it is absolutely imperative to troll if a basket is to be made
at all. Some days the fly is of no use--either owing to a calm, or to a bright sky; and a well-managed
trolling-line or two is then the only resort, unless one stops fishing altogether. And if big
trout and ferox are wanted, nothing succeeds--indeed nothing will succeed, except very occasionally--but
trolling, either with artificial or natural bait. So to be complete you must have the requisite
tackle, and we will tell you what is necessary, both for small and large fish, in as few words
as we possibly can. A ROD specially adapted for trolling is almost a necessity, as it is a
great strain upon an ordinary fly-rod to have the weight of 30 or 40 yards of line upon it:
even a good rod is apt to get an ugly bend from such treatment. The rod for trolling need not
be long--12 to 14 feet is quite sufficient--but it must be stiff; and we consider that the
rings through which the line is led ought to be large and fixed--that is, standing out permanently
from the wood, called by the trade upright rings. A spare top will be supplied along with it.
The REEL should be of the largest description, and may be got as strong as possible, lightness
being no recommendation to one used exclusively for trolling. The LINE ought to be at least
100 yards long--120 for choice--and this suffices for any kind of fish. The material best adapted
for trolling is oiled silk-and-hair. There is a kind of line, made in America, we believe,
which is admirably adapted for the purpose. It is strong as wire-rope, and does not "kink"
under any circumstances--which latter is a consideration, as sometimes a paltry trout may come
on, and you have only to haul him in hand-over-hand without running the risk of your line getting
into a mess. This saves the trouble and waste of time in reeling up many yards of line every
time a "smout" comes on. The line to which we refer is somewhat expensive, but will be found
to be cheap in the long-run. An ordinary silk-and-hair line does well enough, but is apt to
twist sadly if the minnow is not spinning properly, besides the trouble it entails after a
day's fishing of laying out two or three score yards for drying. The troller will require to
provide himself with MINNOW TRACES. These do not require to be more than two yards in length,
but in ordering them take care that the swivels are sufficiently large to insure the minnow--natural
or artificial--spinning nicely. The angler can easily procure swivels and make traces for himself;
but he will find in this, as in most things connected with fishing, that he cannot compete
with the tackle-maker, so we advise him to get them made up at a good warehouse. Retail tackle-makers
charge long prices, but in most large towns there are warehouses which are specially suited
for a customer trade, thus saving the user a long intermediate profit. This is as it should
be. The thickness of the gut used for trolling should of course be regulated, as in fly-fishing,
by the size of fish you expect to catch, and a few traces made of gimp for pike and ferox should
always be in the troller's stock. By the way, and in case we forget to mention it afterwards,
always be provided with some split swan shot, to be used in case of a very clear day, when
it is desirable to sink line and minnow below the surface. Also be provided with tackle--some
mounted on gut and some on gimp--for spinning natural minnow; and we know of none better or
more deadly for this purpose than that of which an illustration is given on next page. It is
very simple, and seldom misses anything.

The large hook is put in at the mouth of the minnow, and the point brought out at a little
above the tail--thus giving the minnow the proper curve for spinning. One of the smaller hooks
is put through both lips of the lure, to close the mouth and to keep the bait in proper position,
while the other is left to spin. Some advocate the use of par-tail as a spinning bait; but
as it is not right to kill par at all, we omit any directions for its use. We have drifted
into the subject of LURES almost unconsciously. If you wish to use natural minnows, see that
they are neither too large nor too small--about two inches long is a good size--and that the
belly is silvery. It is better to instruct your boatman to have a supply ready against your
arrival at the loch, as sometimes it is as difficult to catch minnows as to catch any other
fish. However, we believe that the want of them is so well supplied by the phantom minnow,
that little or no harm is done though they are not to be had. And when the handling and bother
of using live bait is taken into consideration, we think that most folks will prefer the artificial
lure. The phantom we consider the very best of all the imitations; and the troller should have
them in different colours and sizes, from Nos. 1 to 7. The hooks attached to the larger sizes
should be mounted on gimp, as in trolling for large fish--and especially for salmo ferox--no
risk should be run of the mountings giving way. Tin boxes, divided into compartments, for holding
the minnows, are very convenient, and are to be had at most tackle shops. A spoon-bait is also
a splendid deception, and should not be awanting. A tackle-maker's catalogue will tell the
reader of many other "spinners;" but if he cannot catch fish of all kinds with either a natural
or phantom minnow or a spoon, it is not the fault of the lure; and he may try anything else
he fancies, and come no better speed.

CHAPTER VI.

DUTIES OF BOATMAN.

