For the first few years the Cataraqui settlers had a severe struggle for existence. Most of
them arrived in 1784, too late to attempt to sow fall wheat; and it was several seasons before
their crops became nearly adequate for food. The difficulties of transportation up the St Lawrence
rendered the arrival of supplies irregular and uncertain. Cut off as they were from civilization
by the St Lawrence rapids, they were in a much less advantageous position than the great majority
of the Nova Scotia and New Brunswick settlers, who were situated near the sea-coast. They had
no money, and as the government refused to send them specie, they were compelled to fall back
on barter as a means of trade, with the result that all trade was local and trivial. In the
autumn of 1787 the crops failed, and in 1788 famine stalked through the land. There are many
legends about what was known as 'the hungry year.' If we are to believe local tradition, some
of the settlers actually died of starvation. In the family papers of one family is to be found
a story about an old couple who were saved from starvation only by the pigeons which they were
able to knock over. A member of another family testifies: 'We had the luxury of a cow which
the family brought with them, and had it not been for this domestic boon, all would have perished
in the year of scarcity.' Two hundred acre lots were sold for a few pounds of flour. A valuable
cow, in one case, was sold for eight bushels of potatoes; a three-year-old horse was exchanged
for half a hundredweight of flour. Bran was used for making cakes; and leeks, buds of trees,
and even leaves, were ground into food.

The summer of 1789, however, brought relief to the settlers, and though, for many years, comforts
and even necessaries were scarce, yet after 1791, the year in which the new settlements were
erected into the province of Upper Canada, it may be said that most of the settlers had been
placed on their feet. The soil was fruitful; communication and transportation improved; and
metallic currency gradually found its way into the settlements. When Mrs Simcoe, the wife of
the lieutenant-governor, passed through the country in 1792, she was struck by the neatness
of the farms of the Dutch and German settlers from the Mohawk valley, and by the high quality
of the wheat. 'I observed on my way thither,' she says in her diary, 'that the wheat appeared
finer than any I have seen in England, and totally free from weeds.' And a few months later
an anonymous English traveller, passing the same way, wrote: 'In so infant a settlement, it
would have been irrational to expect that abundance which bursts the granaries, and lows in
the stalls of more cultivated countries. There was, however, that kind of appearance which
indicated that with economy and industry, there would be enough.'

Next in size to the settlements at Cataraqui and on the Upper St Lawrence was the settlement
at Niagara. During the war Niagara had been a haven of refuge for the Loyalists of Pennsylvania
and the frontier districts, just as Oswego and St Johns had been havens of refuge for the Loyalists
of northern and western New York. As early as 1776 there arrived at Fort George, Niagara, in
a starving condition, five women and thirty-six children, bearing names which are still to
be found in the Niagara peninsula. From that date until the end of the war refugees continued
to come in. Many of these refugees were the families of the men and officers of the Loyalist
troops stationed at Niagara. On September 27, 1783, for instance, the officer commanding at
Niagara reports the arrival from Schenectady of the wives of two officers of Butler's Rangers,
with a number of children. Some of these people went down the lake to Montreal; but others
remained at the post, and 'squatted' on the land. In 1780 Colonel Butler reports to Haldimand
that four or five families have settled and built houses, and he requests that they be given
seed early in the spring. In 1781 we know that a Loyalist named Robert Land had squatted on
Burlington Bay, at the head of Lake Ontario. In 1783 Lieutenant Tinling was sent to Niagara
to survey lots, and Sergeant Brass of the 84th was sent to build a saw-mill and a grist-mill.
At the same time Butler's Rangers, who were stationed at the fort, were disbanded; and a number
of them were induced to take up land. They took up land on the west side of the river, because,
although, according to the terms of peace, Fort George was not given up by the British until
1796, the river was to constitute the boundary between the two countries. A return of the rise
and progress of the settlement made in May 1784 shows a total of forty-six settlers (that is,
heads of families), with forty-four houses and twenty barns. The return makes it clear that
cultivation had been going on for some time. There were 713 acres cleared, 123 acres sown in
wheat, and 342 acres waiting to be sown; and the farms were very well stocked, there being
an average of about three horses and four or five cows to each settler.

With regard to the settlement at Detroit, there is not much evidence available. It was Haldimand's
intention at first to establish a large settlement there, but the difficulties of communication
doubtless proved to be insuperable. In the event, however, some of Butler's Rangers settled
there. Captain Bird of the Rangers applied for and received a grant of land on which he made
a settlement; and in the summer of 1784 we find Captain Caldwell and some others applying for
deeds for the land and houses they occupied. In 1783 the commanding officer at Detroit reported
the arrival from Red Creek of two men, 'one a Girty, the other McCarty,' who had come to see
what encouragement there was to settle under the British government. They asserted that several
hundred more would be glad to come if sufficient inducements were offered them, as they saw
before them where they were nothing but persecution. In 1784 Jehu Hay, the British lieutenant-governor
of Detroit, sent in lists of men living near Fort Pitt who were anxious to settle under the
British government if they could get lands, most of them being men who had served in the Highland
and 60th regiments. But it is safe to assume that no large number of these ever settled near
Detroit, for when Hay arrived in Detroit in the summer of 1784, he found only one Loyalist
at the post itself. There had been for more than a generation a settlement of French Canadians
at Detroit; but it was not until after 1791 that the English element became at all considerable.

It has been estimated that in the country above Montreal in 1783 there were ten thousand Loyalists,
and that by 1791 this number had increased to twenty-five thousand. These figures are certainly
too large. Pitt's estimate of the population of Upper Canada in 1791 was only ten thousand.
This is probably much nearer the mark. The overwhelming majority of these people were of very
humble origin. Comparatively few of the half-pay officers settled above Montreal before 1791;
and most of these were, as Haldimand said, 'mechanics, only removed from one situation to practise
their trade in another.' Major Van Alstine, it appears, was a blacksmith before he came to
Canada. That many of the Loyalists were illiterate is evident from the testimony of the Rev.
William Smart, a Presbyterian clergyman who came to Upper Canada in 1811: 'There were but few
of the U. E. Loyalists who possessed a complete education. He was personally acquainted with
many, especially along the St Lawrence and Bay of Quinte, and by no means were all educated,
or men of judgment; even the half-pay officers, many of them, had but a limited education.'
The aristocrats of the 'Family Compact' party did not come to Canada with the Loyalists of
1783; they came, in most cases, after 1791, some of them from Britain, such as Bishop Strachan,
and some of them from New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, such as the Jarvises and the Robinsons.
This fact is one which serves to explain a great deal in Upper Canadian history.

CHAPTER XI

COMPENSATION AND HONOUR

Throughout the war the British government had constantly granted relief and compensation to
Loyalists who had fled to England. In the autumn of 1782 the treasury was paying out to them,
on account of losses or services, an annual amount of 40,280 pounds over and above occasional
payments of a particular or extraordinary nature amounting to 17,000 pounds or 18,000 pounds
annually. When peace had been concluded, and it became clear that the Americans had no intention
of making restitution to the Loyalists, the British government determined to put the payments
for their compensation on a more satisfactory basis. The commission was originally appointed
to sit for only two years; but the task which confronted it was so great that it was found
necessary several times to renew the act under which it was appointed; and not until 1790 was
the long inquiry brought to an end. It was intended at first that the claims of the men in
the Loyalist regiments should be sent in through their officers; and Sir John Johnson, for
instance, was asked to transmit the claims of the Loyalists settled in Canada. But it was found
that this method did not provide sufficient guarantee against fraudulent and exorbitant claims;
and eventually members of the commission were compelled to go in person to New York, Nova Scotia,
and Canada.

The delay in concluding the work of the commission caused great indignation.

Complaints were also made about the methods of the inquiry. The claimant was taken into a room
alone with the commissioners, was asked to submit a written and sworn statement as to his losses
and services, and was then cross-examined both with regard to his own losses and those of his
fellow claimants. This cross-questioning was freely denounced as an 'inquisition.'

Grave inconvenience was doubtless caused in many cases by the delay of the commissioners in
making their awards. But on the other hand it should be remembered that the commissioners had
before them a portentous task. They had to examine between four thousand and five thousand
claims. In most of these the amount of detail to be gone through was considerable, and the
danger of fraud was great. There was the difficulty also of determining just what losses should
be compensated. The rule which was followed was that claims should be allowed only for losses
of property through loyalty, for loss of offices held before the war, and for loss of actual
professional income. No account was taken of lands bought or improved during the war, of uncultivated
lands, of property mortgaged to its full value or with defective titles, of damage done by
British troops, or of forage taken by them. Losses due to the fall in the value of the provincial
paper money were thrown out, as were also expenses incurred while in prison or while living
in New York city. Even losses in trade and labour were discarded. It will be seen that to apply
these rules to thousands of detailed claims, all of which had to be verified, was not the work
of a few days, or even months.

