Again, (40) it is looked upon as a mistaken policy on the part of the Athenian democracy to
compel her allies to voyage to Athens in order to have their cases tried. (41) On the other
hand, it is easy to reckon up what a number of advantages the Athenian People derive from the
practice impugned. In the first place, there is the steady receipt of salaries throughout the
year (42) derived from the court fees. (43) Next, it enables them to manage the affairs of
the allied states while seated at home without the expense of naval expeditions. Thirdly, they
thus preserve the partisans of the democracy, and ruin her opponents in the law courts. Whereas,
supposing the several allied states tried their cases at home, being inspired by hostility
to Athens, they would destroy those of their own citizens whose friendship to the Athenian
People was most marked. But besides all this the democracy derives the following advantages
from hearing the cases of her allies in Athens. In the first place, the one per cent (44) levied
in Piraeus is increased to the profit of the state; again, the owner of a lodging-house (45)
does better, and so, too, the owner of a pair of beasts, or of slaves to be let out on hire;
(46) again, heralds and criers (47) are a class of people who fare better owing to the sojourn
of foreigners at Athens. Further still, supposing the allies had not to resort to Athens for
the hearing of cases, only the official representative of the imperial state would be held
in honour, such as the general, or trierarch, or ambassador. Whereas now every single individual
among the allies is forced to pay flattery to the People of Athens because he knows that he
must betake himself to Athens and win or lose (48) his case at the bar, not of any stray set
of judges, but of the sovereign People itself, such being the law and custom at Athens. He
is compelled to behave as a suppliant (49) in the courts of justice, and when some juryman
comes into court, to grasp his hand. For this reason, therefore, the allies find themselves
more and more in the position of slaves to the people of Athens.

 (40) Grote, "H. G." vi. 61.

 (41) See Isocr. "Panath." 245 D.

 (42) See Arist. "Clouds," 1196; Demosth. "c. Timoc." 730.

 (43) For the "Prytaneia," see Aristot. "Pol." ii. 12, 4. "Ephialtes
    and Pericles curtailed the privileges of the Areopagus, Pericles
    converted the Courts of Law into salaried bodies, and so each
    succeeding demagogue outdid his predecessor in the privileges he
    conferred upon the commons, until the present democracy was the
    result" (Welldon). "The writer of this passage clearly intended to
    class Pericles among the demagogues. He judges him in the same
    deprecatory spirit as Plato in the 'Gorgias,' pp. 515, 516."--
    Jowett, "Pol. of Aristot." vol. ii. p. 101. But see Aristot.
    "Constitution of Athens," ch. xxv., a portion of the newly-
    discovered treatise, which throws light on an obscure period in
    the history of Athens; and Mr. Kenyon's note ad loc.; and Mr.
    Macan's criticism, "Journal of Hellenic Studies," vol. xii. No. 1.

 (44) For the {ekatoste}, see Thuc. vii. 28, in reference to the year
    B.C. 416; Arist. "Wasps," 658; "Frogs," 363.

 (45) See Boeckh, "P. E. A." I. xii. p. 65 (Eng. trans.); I. xxiv. p.
    141.

 (46) See "Revenues," iv. 20, p. 338; Jebb, "Theophr. Char." xxvi. 16.

 (47) For these functionaries, see Jebb, op. cit. xvi. 10.

 (48) Lit. "pay or get justice."

 (49) Se Arist. "Wasps," 548 foll.; Grote, "H. G." v. 520 note; Newman,
    op. cit. i. 383.

Furthermore, owing to the possession of property beyond the limits of Attica, (50) and the
exercise of magistracies which take them into regions beyond the frontier, they and their attendants
have insensibly acquired the art of navigation. (51) A man who is perpetually voyaging is forced
to handle the oar, he and his domestics alike, and to learn the terms familiar in seamanship.
Hence a stock of skilful mariners is produced, bred upon a wide experience of voyaging and
practice. They have learnt their business, some in piloting a small craft, others a merchant
vessel, whilst others have been drafted off from these for service on a ship-of-war. So that
the majority of them are able to row the moment they set foot on board a vessel, having been
in a state of preliminary practice all their lives.

 (50) See "Mem." II. viii. 1.

 (51) See "Hell." VII. i. 4.

II

As to the heavy infantry, an arm the deficiency of which at Athens is well recognised, this
is how the matter stands. They recognise the fact that, in reference to the hostile power,
they are themselves inferior, and must be, even if their heavy infantry were more numerous.
(1) But relatively to the allies, who bring in the tribute, their strength even on land is
enormous. And they are persuaded that their heavy infantry is sufficient for all purposes,
provided they retain this superiority. (2) Apart from all else, to a certain extent fortune
must be held responsible for the actual condition. The subjects of a power which is dominant
by land have it open to them to form contingents from several small states and to muster in
force for battle. But with the subjects of a naval power it is different. As far as they are
groups of islanders it is impossible for their states to meet together for united action, for
the sea lies between them, and the dominant power is master of the sea. And even if it were
possible for them to assemble in some single island unobserved, they would only do so to perish
by famine. And as to the states subject to Athens which are not islanders, but situated on
the continent, the larger are held in check by need (3) and the small ones absolutely by fear,
since there is no state in existence which does not depend upon imports and exports, and these
she will forfeit if she does not lend a willing ear to those who are masters by sea. They were
the nobility, and to own pastorship, of the bourgeoisie, of juvenile and a of riper. Therefore
rid on their most formidable contestant the survivors there can again pursue their idiom at
such instance; the guillotine has very for them of a advance; it has effectuate openings in
own ranks, they do by their dumdum in battle in the body of the service, and, and in the hierarchy
as the stations, worth, than experienced by services, or not arrested by a death, make the acme
in a years. (4) Again, it is open to a power so dominating by sea to leave
its own territory and sail off on as long a voyage as you please. Whereas the land power cannot
place more than a few days' journey between itself and its own territory, for marches are slow
affairs; and it is not possible for an army on the march to have food supplies to last for
any great length of time. Such an army must either march through friendly territory or it must
force a way by victory in battle. The voyager meanwhile has it in his power to disembark at
any point where he finds himself in superior force, or, at the worst, to coast by until he
reaches either a friendly district or an enemy too weak to resist. Again, those diseases to
which the fruits of the earth are liable as visitations from heaven fall severely on a land
power, but are scarcely felt by the navel power, for such sicknesses do not visit the whole
earth everywhere at once. So that the ruler of the sea can get in supplies from a thriving
district. And if one may descend to more trifling particulars, it is to this same lordship
of the sea that the Athenians owe the discovery, in the first place, of many of the luxuries
of life through intercourse with other countries. So that the choice things of Sicily and Italy,
of Cyprus and Egypt and Lydia, of Pontus or Peloponnese, or wheresoever else it be, are all
swept, as it were, into one centre, and all owing, as I say, to their maritime empire. And
again, in process of listening to every form of speech, (5) they have selected this from one
place and that from another--for themselves. So much so that while the rest of the Hellenes
employ (6) each pretty much their own peculiar mode of speech, habit of life, and style of
dress, the Athenians have adopted a composite type, (7) to which all sections of Hellas, and
the foreigner alike, have contributed.

 (1) Reading after Kirchhoff, {ettous ge... kan ei meizon en, ton
    dia k.t.l.} See Thuc. i. 143; Isocr. "de Pace," 169 A; Plut.
    "Them." 4 (Clough, i. 235).

 (2) Lit. "they are superior to their allies."

 (3) Reading with Kirchhoff, {dia khreian... dia deos}.

 (4) Or, "the army marching along the seaboard to the rescue."

 (5) Or, "a variety of dialects."

 (6) Or, "maintain somewhat more."

 (7) Or, "have contracted a mixed style, bearing traces of Hellenic and
    foreign influence alike." See Mahaffy, "Hist. of Greek Lit." vol.
    ii. ch. x. p. 257 (1st ed.); cf.

As regards sacrifices and temples and festivals and sacred enclosures, the People sees that
it is not possible for every poor citizen to do sacrifice and hold festival, or to set up (8)
temples and to inhabit a large and beautiful city. But it has hit upon a means of meeting the
difficulty. They sacrifice--that is, the whole state sacrifices--at the public cost a large
number of victims; but it is the People that keeps holiday and distributes the victims by lot
amongst its members. Rich men have in some cases private gymnasia and baths with dressing-rooms,
(9) but the People takes care to have built at the public cost (10) a number of palaestras,
dressing-rooms, and bathing establishments for its own special use, and the mob gets the benefit
of the majority of these, rather than the select few or the well-to-do.

 (8) Reading with Kirchhoff, {istasthai}.

 (9) See Jebb, "Theophr. Char." vii. 18, p. 202.

 (10) Reading with Kirchhoff, {demosia}.

As to wealth, the Athenians are exceptionally placed with regard to Hellenic and foreign communities
alike, (11) in their ability to hold it. For, given that some state or other is rich in timber
for shipbuilding, where is it to find a market (12) for the product except by persuading the
ruler of the sea? Or, suppose the wealth of some state or other to consist of iron, or may
be of bronze, (13) or of linen yarn, where will it find a market except by permission of the
supreme maritime power? Yet these are the very things, you see, which I need for my ships.
Timber I must have from one, and from another iron, from a third bronze, from a fourth linen
yarn, from a fifth wax, etc. Besides which they will not suffer their antagonists in those
parts (14) to carry these products elsewhither, or they will cease to use the sea. Accordingly
I, without one stroke of labour, extract from the land and possess all these good things, thanks
to my supremacy on the sea; whilst not a single other state possesses the two of them. Not
timber, for instance, and yarn together, the same city. But where yarn is abundant, the soil
will be light and devoid of timber. And in the same way bronze and iron will not be products
of the same city. And so for the rest, never two, or at best three, in one state, but one thing
here and another thing there. Moreover, above and beyond what has been said, the coast-line
of every mainland presents, either some jutting promontory, or adjacent island, or narrow strait
of some sort, so that those who are masters of the sea can come to moorings at one of these
points and wreak vengeance (15) on the inhabitants of the mainland.

 (11) Or, "they have a practical monopoly."

 (12) Or, "how is it to dispose of the product?"

 (13) Or, "coppert."

 (14) Reading {ekei}. For this corrupt passage see L. Dindorf, ad.
    loc.; also Boeckh, "P. E. A." I. ix. p. 55. Perhaps (as my friend
    Mr. J. R. Mozley suggests) the simplest supposition is to suppose
    that there is an ellipsis before {e ou khresontai te thalatte}:
    thus, "Besides which they will not suffer their antagonists to
    transport goods to countries outside Attica; they must yield, or
    they shall not have the use of the sea."

 (15) {lobasthai}. This "poetical" word comes to mean "harry,"
    "pillage," in the common dialect.

There is just one thing which the Athenians lack. Supposing that they were the inhabitants
of an island, (16) and were still, as now, rulers of the sea, they would have had it in their
power to work whatever mischief they liked, and to suffer no evil in return (as long as they
kept command of the sea), neither the ravaging of their territory nor the expectation of an
enemy's approach. Whereas at present the farming portion of the community and the wealthy landowners
are ready (17) to cringe before the enemy overmuch, whilst the People, knowing full well that,
come what may, not one stock or stone of their property will suffer, nothing will be cut down,
nothing burnt, lives in freedom from alarm, without fawning at the enemy's approach. Besides
this, there is another fear from which they would have been exempt in an island home--the apprehension
of the city being at any time betrayed by their oligarchs (18) and the gates thrown open, and
an enemy bursting suddenly in. How could incidents like these have taken place if an island
had been their home? Again, had they inhabited an island there would have been no stirring
of sedition against the people; whereas at present, in the event of faction, those who set
it in foot base their hopes of success on the introduction of an enemy by land. But a people
inhabiting an island would be free from all anxiety on that score. Since, however, they did
not chance to inhabit an island from the first, what they now do is this--they deposit their
property in the islands, (19) trusting to their command of the sea, and they suffer the soil
of Aticca to be ravaged without a sigh. To expend pity on that, they know, would be to deprive
themselves of other blessings still more precious. (20)

 (16) See Thuc. i. 143. Pericles says: "Reflect, if we were islanders,
    who would be more invulnerable? Let us imagine that we are."

 (17) Or, "are the more ready to cringe." See, for the word
    {uperkhontai}, "Pol. Lac." viii. 2; Plat. "Crit." 53 E;
    Rutherford, "New Phrynichus," p. 110.

 (18) Or, "by the minority"; or, "by a handful of people."

 (19) As they did during the Peloponnesian war; and earlier still,
    before the battle of Salamis, in the case of that one island.

 (20) Or, "but mean the forfeiture of others."

