George endeavoured to persuade himself that he was glad of what he had done; but he failed
utterly. He had loved her, did love her dearly, and found that he never valued her as he did
now. She had behaved shamefully to him. He said that to himself over and over again. But what
had that to do with love? He did not love her the less because she had made public his letter,
the secrets of his heart, that which should have been as private as the passion of her own
bosom. He could not love her less because she talked over these with another man, however much
he might feel himself bound to cast her off for doing so. So he shut himself up in his chambers;
wrote pages for his new book that were moody, misanthropical, and unbelieving; and on the whole
was very unhappy.

Nor was Caroline much better able to bear the shock; though with her there was more propriety
of demeanour under the blow, and a better mental control. That was of course, for she was a
woman--and being a woman, she had to take care that the world knew nothing of what was going
on within her heart.

For two days she remained perfectly calm. She allowed herself no vent whatever for her feelings.
She made the breakfast; sat close at her tambour frame, or more frequently close at her book;
read aloud to her aunt; went out and made calls; and attended minutely to all the ordinary
occupations of her life. Her aunt never once caught her with a tear in her eye, never saw her
sitting thoughtful, unoccupied, with her head leaning on her arm. Had she done so, she would
have spoken to her about George. As it was, she did not dare to do so. There was during these
days, and indeed outwardly for many days afterwards, an iron stubbornness about Caroline which
frightened Miss Baker and altogether prevented her from alluding to the possibility of a reconciliation.
Nothing could be more gentle, nay, more obedient, than Caroline's manner and way with her aunt
at this time: she yielded to her in everything; but her aunt perceived that all utterance as
to the one subject which was nearest to both their hearts was effectually forbidden.

Caroline allowed two whole days to pass before she would allow herself to think of what had
taken place. She read through half the nights, so as to secure sleep for herself when she lay
down. But on the third morning she opened her desk in her own room, and sat down and wrote
to Adela Gauntlet.

   Littlebath, Friday.

   Dearest Adela,

   An occurrence has taken place of which I have not yet
   allowed myself to think, and which I shall first realize
   and bring home to myself in writing to you; and yet before
   it happened I had thought of it very often--even talked of
   it with aunt Mary; and sometimes thought of it and talked
   of it as though it were almost desirable. I wish I may
   teach myself so to think of it now.

   All is over between me and Mr. Bertram. He came down here
   on Tuesday and told me so. I do not blame him. Nor can I
   blame him; not at least for what he has done, though his
   manner in doing it was very harsh.

   I would tell you all if I could, but it is so hard in a
   letter. I wish you were here. But no; you would drive me
   mad by advice which I could not, would not take. Last
   summer, when I was so unhappy in London, aunt and I had
   some conversation about our affairs with a person there.
   Mr. Bertram heard of this while he was in Paris. He did
   not approve of it; and he wrote me, oh! such a letter. I
   should have thought it impossible for him to have written
   such words to me. I was mad with grief, and I showed this
   letter to the same person. There, Adela, I must tell you
   all. It was Mr. Harcourt, George's intimate friend. George
   particularly begged me in that letter not to talk to him
   any more; and yet I did this. But I was half frenzied
   with grief; and why was I to obey one who had no right
   to command me, and who made his commands so harsh? His
   request would have been a law to me.

   But I know I was wrong, Adela. I have known it every
   minute since I showed the letter. I was sure I was wrong,
   because I could not tell him that I had done so. It made
   me afraid of him, and I never before was afraid of any
   one. Well; I did not tell him, and now he has found it
   out. I would not condescend to ask him how; but I think I
   know. This at least I know, that he did so in no ignoble
   way, by no mean little suspicions. He did not seek to
   discover it. It had come upon him like a great blow, and
   he came at once to me to learn the truth. I told him the
   truth, and this has been the end of it.

   Now you know it all; all except his look, his tone, his
   manner. These I cannot tell you--cannot describe. I seem
   now to know him better, understand him more thoroughly
   than ever I did. He is a man for a tender-hearted woman
   to love to madness. And I-- Ah! never mind, dearest; I
   think--nay, I am sure I can get over it. You never could.
   Yes; he is a man for a woman to worship; but yet he is
   so rough, so stern, so harsh in his anger. He does not
   measure his words at all. I don't think he knows the kind
   of things he says. And yet the while his heart is so
   tender, so soft; I could see it all. But he gives one no
   time to acknowledge it--at least, he gave me none. Were
   you ever scolded, upbraided, scorned by a man you loved?
   and did you ever feel that you loved him the better for
   all his scorn? I felt so. I could so feel, though it
   was impossible to confess it. But he was wrong there.
   He should not have upbraided me unless he intended to
   forgive. I think I have read that it is not kingly for a
   king to receive a suppliant for pardon unless he intends
   to forgive. I can understand that. If his mind was made
   up to condemn me altogether, he should have written and
   so have convicted me. But in such matters he considers
   nothing. He acts altogether from the heart.

   I am, however, sure of this, dear Adela, that it is
   all better as it is. There; with you, I will scorn all
   falsehood. For once, and, if possible, only for once, the
   truth shall stand out plainly. I love him as I never,
   never can love another man. I love him as I never thought
   to love any man. I feel at this moment as though I could
   be content to serve him as his menial. For she who is his
   wife must so serve him--and how long should I be content
   to do so?

   But yet I wrong him in this. He is most imperious,
   absolutely imperious--must be altogether master in all
   things; that is what I mean. But to one who loved him
   well, and would permit this, he would be the tenderest,
   gentlest, most loving of masters. He would not permit the
   wind to blow too harshly on his slave. I have loved him
   well, but I could not permit this. I could not permit it
   for a whole lifetime; and therefore it is well that we
   have parted.

   You will hardly believe this of him, for he seems in
   general company to be so good-humoured. With people that
   are indifferent to him, no man is less exacting; but with
   those near to him in life he never bends, not an inch.
   It is this that has estranged his uncle from him. But
   yet how noble, how grand a man he is! To all pecuniary
   considerations he is absolutely indifferent. A falsehood,
   even a concealment, is impossible with him. Who that
   either of us knows is equal to or approaches him in
   talent? He is brave, generous, simple-hearted beyond all
   that I have ever known. Who is like him? And yet--. To
   you, once for all, I say all this. But, Adela, do not take
   advantage of me. You ought to know that were it not all
   over, I should not say it.

   I wish that you had been betrothed to him. Oh, how I wish
   it! You are not worldly, as I am; not stubborn, nor proud
   of heart. Not that you have not pride, a truer, better
   pride. You could have brought yourself to submit, to be
   guided, to be a secondary portion of himself--and then how
   he would have loved you!

   I have often wondered that he should have thought of me.
   No two persons were ever less suited for each other. I
   knew that when I accepted him, foolishly accepted him
   because I liked him, and now I am rightly punished. But,
   ah! that he should be punished too! for he is punished.
   I know he loves me; though I know nothing would now
   induce him to take me. And I know this also, that
   nothing--nothing--nothing would induce me to be so taken.
   Not if he were begging--as he never will beg to any woman.
   I would be too true to him, too true to what I now know to
   be his happiness.

   As for me, I dare say I shall marry yet. I have some
   little money, and that sort of manner which many men
   think most becoming for the top of their tables and the
   management of their drawing-rooms. If I do, there shall be
   no deceit. I certainly shall not marry for love. Indeed,
   from early years I never thought it possible that I should
   do so. I have floundered unawares into the pitfall, and
   now I must flounder out. I have always thought that there
   was much in the world well worth the living for besides
   love. Ambition needs not be a closed book for women,
   unless they choose to close it. I do not see but that a
   statesman's wife may stand nearly as high in the world as
   the statesman stands himself. Money, position, rank are
   worth the having--at any rate, the world thinks so, or why
   else do they so scramble for them? I will not scramble for
   them; but if they come in my way, why, I may probably pick
   them up.

   This will be odious to you. I know it will. A
   potato-paring and a true heart are your beau-ideal for
   this world. I am made of viler stuff. I have had the true
   heart, and see what I have made of it!

   You will answer me, of course. I could find it in my heart
   to beg you not to do so, only now I could not afford to
   think that you were cold to me. I know you will write to
   me; but, pray, pray do not advise me to submit myself to
   him under the idea that a reconciliation is possible. A
   reconciliation is not possible, and I will not submit
   myself to him. I know I speak the truth when I say that
   our marriage is not to be desired. I acknowledge his
   merits; I confess his superiority: but these very merits,
   this great superiority, make it impossible that I should
   suit him as a wife.

   On that matter I have made up my mind. I will never marry
   him. I only say this to deter you from wasting your energy
   in endeavouring to bring us again together. I know very
   well that I shall not be asked--that his mind is equally
   firm.

   And now, good-bye. You know all my heart, and, as far
   as I can tell them, all my feelings. A long letter from
   you will give me much delight if you will comply with my
   earnest request.

   This letter has been a very selfish one, for it is all
   about myself. But you will forgive that now. God bless
   you.

   Your affectionate friend,

   CAROLINE.

   P.S. I have said nothing to aunt Mary, except to tell
   her that the match is broken off; and she has kindly--so
   kindly, abstained from any questions.

Adela Gauntlet was all alone when she received this letter at West Putford. In these days she
generally was all alone. That she should answer it, answer it at once, was of course certain.
But how should she answer it? Her mind was soon made up, with many tears, partly for her friend
and partly for herself. Caroline's happiness had been, nay, probably still was, in her own
hands, and she was going to throw it away. For herself, happiness had never been within her
own reach. "Be his menial servant!" she repeated to herself, as she read and re-read the letter.
"Yes; of course she should if he required it. It would be for her to make him know that she
could be something better to him!"

Her judgment was soon formed. She condemned Caroline altogether on Caroline's own showing.
In such matters one woman almost always condemns another. She took no notice of the allusion
to Bertram's harshness; she almost overlooked the generosity with which her friend had written
of the lover who had rejected her. She only saw Caroline's great fault. How could she have
brought herself to talk with Mr. Harcourt--with a young unmarried man--on such a subject? And,
oh! how was it possible that she could have brought herself to show him such a letter? She
wrote her answer that same night, as follows:--

   West Putford, Saturday night.

   Dearest Caroline,

   Your letter has made me most unhappy. I almost think that
   I have suffered more in reading it than you did in writing
   it. You have made a request to me with which I cannot,
   will not comply. I can only write to you the truth, as I
   think it. What else can I write? How can I frame my letter
   in any other way?

   But I will acknowledge this, that it is useless for me
   to suggest anything to you as to your own happiness. But
   there is more than that to be thought of. There is that
   which you are bound to think of before that. Whether you
   have broken with Mr. Bertram or not, there has been that
   between you which makes it your duty in this matter to
   regard his happiness as your first consideration.

   Dearest, dearest Caroline, I fear that you have been wrong
   throughout in this affair. I do not dread your being angry
   with me for saying so. In spite of what you say, I know
   your heart is so warm that you would be angry with me if
   I blamed him. You were wrong in talking to Mr. Harcourt;
   doubly wrong in showing to him that letter. If so, is it
   not your business to put that wrong right? to remedy if
   you can the evil that has come of it?

   I feel quite sure that Mr. Bertram loves you with all his
   heart, and that he is one who will be wretched to his
   heart's core at losing what he loves. It is nothing to say
   that it is he who has rejected you. You understand his
   moods; even I understand them well enough to know in what
   temper that last visit was made. Answer this to yourself.
   Had you then asked his pardon, do you not know that he
   would have given it you with a rapture of joy? Do you not
   feel that he was then at that moment only too anxious to
   forgive? And are you, you who have sinned against him, are
   you to let him break his heart against a rock, because
   you are too proud to own to him the fault which you
   acknowledge to yourself? Is that your return for the love
   which he has borne you?

   You wish that he had loved me, you say. Do not wish away
   the sweetest gift which God can give to a woman in this
   world. It was not possible that I should have loved him.
   It is quite impossible now that you should not do so.

   Try to think in this affair with severity towards
   yourself, and ask yourself what justice requires of you.
   My advice to you is to write to him. Tell him, with frank
   humility and frank affection, that you ask his pardon
   for the injury that you had done him. Say no more
   than that. If it shall still please him to consider
   that the engagement between you is at an end, such an
   acknowledgment from you will in no way constrain him to
   violate that resolve. But if he relent--and I know that
   this other "if" will be the true one--the first train that
   runs will bring him back to you; and he, who I am sure is
   now wretched, will again be happy; ah! happier than he has
   been for so long.

   I implore you to do this, not for your own sake, but for
   his. You have done wrong, and it is he that should be
   considered. You will think what will be your sufferings if
   he does not notice your letter; should he not be softened
   by your humility. But you have no right to think of that.
   You have done him wrong, and you owe him reparation. You
   cannot expect that you should do wrong and not suffer.

   I fear I have written savagely. Dear, dear Caroline, come
   to me here, and I will not talk savagely. I too am not
   happy. I have not my happiness so much in my own hands as
   you have. Do come to me. Papa will be delighted to see
   you. I am sure Miss Baker could spare you for a fortnight.
   Do, do come to

   Your true friend,

   ADELA.

There was much of craft in Adela Gauntlet's letter; but if craft could ever be pardonable,
then was hers pardonable in this case. She had written as though her sole thought was for Mr.
Bertram. She had felt that in this way only could she move her friend. In her mind--Adela's
mind--it was a settled conviction, firm as rocks, that as Caroline and Mr. Bertram loved each
other, neither of them could be happy unless they were brought together. How could she best
aid in doing this? That had been her main thought, and so thinking, she had written this letter,
filled to overflowing with womanly craft.

And her craft was nearly successful; but only nearly; that was all. Caroline sat in her solitude
and cried over this letter till her eyes were weary with tears. She strove, strove valiantly
to take her friend's advice; strove to do so in spite of all her former protestations. She
got pen and ink and sat herself down to write the letter of humiliation; but the letter would
not be written; it was impossible to her; the words would not form themselves: for two days
she strove, and then she abandoned the task as for ever hopeless. And thus this third short
epistle must be laid before the reader.

"I cannot do it, Adela. It is not in my nature. You could do it, because you are good, and
high, and pure. Do not judge others by yourself. I cannot do it, and will not madden myself
by thinking of it again. Good-bye; God bless you. If I could cure your grief I would come to
you; but I am not fit. God in his own time will cure yours, because you are so pure. I could
not help you, nor you me; I had better, therefore, remain where I am. A thousand thousand kisses.
I love you so now, because you and you only know my secret. Oh, if you should not keep it!
But I know you will; you are so true."

This was all. There was no more; no signature. "May God help them both!" said Adela as she read it.

CHAPTER IX.

BIDDING HIGH.

I hope to press all the necessary records of the next three or four months into a few pages.
A few pages will be needed in order that we may know how old Mr. Bertram behaved when he heard
of this rupture between his nephew and his granddaughter.

George, when he found himself back in town, shut himself up in his chambers and went to work
upon his manuscript. He, too, recognized the necessity of labour, in order that the sorrow
within his heart might thus become dull and deadened.

But it was deep, true sorrow--to him at some periods almost overwhelming: he would get up from
his desk during the night, and throwing himself on the sofa, lie there writhing in his agony.
While he had known that Caroline was his own, he had borne his love more patiently than does
many a man of less intensity of feeling. He had been much absent from her; had not abridged
those periods of absence as he might have done; had, indeed, been but an indifferent lover,
if eagerness and empressement are necessary to a lover's character. But this had arisen from
two causes, and lukewarmness in his love had not been either of them. He had been compelled
to feel that he must wait for the fruition of his love; and therefore had waited. And then
he had been utterly devoid of any feeling of doubt in her he loved. She had decided that they
should wait. And so he had waited as secure away from her as he could have been with her.

But his idea of a woman's love, of the purity and sanctity of her feelings, had been too high.
He had left his betrothed to live without him, frequently without seeing him for months, and
yet he had thought it utterly impossible that she should hold confidential intercourse with
another man. We have seen how things fell out with him. The story need not be repeated. He
was shocked, outraged, torn to the heart's core; but he loved as warmly, perhaps more warmly
than ever.

What he now expected it is impossible to describe; but during that first fortnight of seclusion
in the midst of London, he did half expect, half hope that something would turn up. He waited
and waited, still assuring himself that his resolve was inviolable, and that nothing should
make him renew his engagement: and yet he hoped for something. There was a weight on his heart
which then might have been removed.

But no sign was made. We have seen how Adela, who felt for him, had striven in vain. No sign
was made; and at the end of the fortnight he roused himself, shook his mane, and asked himself
what he should do.

In the first place, there should be no mystery. There were those among his friends to whom
he had felt himself bound to speak of his engagement when it was made, and to them he felt
himself bound to communicate the fact now that it was unmade. He wrote accordingly to Arthur
Wilkinson; he wrote to Harcourt; and determined to go down to Hadley. He would have written
also to his uncle, but he had never done so, and hardly knew how to commence a correspondence.

His letter to Harcourt had been a difficult task to him, but at last it was finished in a very
few words. He did not at all refer to what had taken place at Richmond, or allude in any way
to the nature of the cause which had produced this sudden disrupture. He merely said that his
engagement with Miss Waddington was broken off by mutual consent, and that he thought it best
to let his friend know this in order that mistakes and consequent annoyance might be spared.
This was very short; but, nevertheless, it required no little effort in its accomplishment.

On the very next day Harcourt came to him at his chambers. This surprised him much. For though
he had no intention of absolutely quarrelling with the rising legal luminary, he had taught
himself to look upon any renewal of their real intimacy as out of the question. They were sailing
on essentially different tacks in their life's voyages. They had become men of different views
in everything. Their hours, their habits, their friends, their ways were in all things unlike.
And then, moreover, Bertram no longer liked the successful barrister. It may be said that he
had learned positively to dislike him. It was not that Harcourt had caused this wound which
was tearing his heart to pieces; at least, he thought that it was not that. He declared to
himself a dozen times that he did not blame Harcourt. He blamed no one but Caroline--her and
himself. Nor was it because the man was so successful. Bertram certainly did not envy him.
But the one as he advanced in manhood became worldly, false, laborious, exact, polished, rich,
and agreeable among casual acquaintances. The other was the very reverse. He was generous and
true; but idle--idle at any rate for any good; he was thoughtful, but cloudy in his thoughts,
indifferent as to society, poor, much poorer than he had been as a lad at college, and was
by no means gifted with the knack of making pretty conversation for the world at large. Of
late whenever they had met, Harcourt had said something which grated painfully on the other's
inner sensibilities, and hence had arisen this dislike.

But the dislike seemed to be all on one side. Harcourt now was a man whose name was frequent
in other men's mouths. Great changes were impending in the political world, and Harcourt was
one of the men whom the world regarded as sure to be found swimming on the top of the troubled
waters. The people of the Battersea Hamlets were proud of him, the House of Commons listened
to him, suitors employed him, and men potent in the Treasury chambers, and men also who hoped
to be potent there, courted and flattered him.

All this made him busy; but, nevertheless, he found time to come to his dear friend.

"I am sorry for this; very sorry," he said, as he put out his hand in a manner that seemed
to his friend to be almost patronizing. "Can nothing be done?"

"Nothing at all," said Bertram, rather curtly.

"Can I do nothing?" said the cunning, legal man.

"Nothing at all," said Bertram, very curtly.

"Ah, I wish I could. I should be so happy to rearrange matters if it be at all possible." There
are some men who are so specially good at rearranging the domestic disarrangements of others.

"It is an affair," said Bertram, "which admits of no interference. Perhaps it is unnecessary
that I should have troubled you on the matter at all, for I know that you are very busy; but--"

"My dear fellow--busy, indeed! What business could be more important to me than my friend's
happiness?"

"But," continued George, "as the affair had been talked over so often between you and me, I
thought it right to tell you."

"Of course--of course; and so nothing can be done. Ah, well! it is very sad, very. But I suppose
you know best. She is a charming girl. Perhaps, rather--"

"Harcourt, I had rather not hear a word spoken about her in any way; but certainly not a word
in her dispraise."

"Dispraise! no, certainly not. It would be much easier to praise her. I always admired her
very much; very much indeed."

"Well, there's an end of it."

"So be it. But I am sorry, very sorry; heartily sorry. You are a little rough now, Bertram.
Of course I see that you are so. Every touch goes against the hair with you; every little blow
hits you on the raw. I can understand that; and therefore I do not mind your roughness. But
we are old friends, you know. Each is perhaps the other's oldest friend; and I don't mean to
lose such a friend because you have a shade of the misanthrope on you just now. You'll throw
the bile off in another essay, rather more bitter than the last, and then you'll be all right."

"I'm right enough now, thank you. Only a man can't always be in high spirits. At least, some
men cannot."

"Well, God bless you, old fellow! I know you want me gone; so I'll go now. But never talk to
me about my business. I do get through a good deal of business, but it shall never stand between
you and me."

And so the cunning legal man went his way.

And then there remained the journey to Hadley. After that it was his purpose to go abroad again,
to go to Paris, and live in dingy lodgings there au cinquième, to read French free-thinking
books, to study the wild side of politics, to learn if he could, among French theatres and
French morals, French freedom of action, and freedom of speech, and freedom of thought--France
was a blessed country for freedom in those days, under the paternal monarchy of that paternal
monarch, Louis Philippe--to learn to forget, among these sources of inspiration, all that he
had known of the sweets of English life.

But there remained the journey to Hadley. It had always been his custom to go to Mr. Pritchett
in the city before he went to his uncle's house, and he did so now. Everybody who wished to
see Mr. Bertram always went to Mr. Pritchett first, and Mr. Pritchett would usually send some
avant-courier to warn his patron of the invasion.

"Ah, Mr. George," said Pritchett, wheezing, with his most melancholy sigh. "You shouldn't have
left the old gentleman so long, sir. Indeed you shouldn't."

"But he does not want to see me," said George.

"Think what a sight of money that is!" continued Pritchett. "One would really think, Mr. George,
that you objected to money. There is that gentleman, your particular friend, you know, the
member of Parliament. He is down there constantly, paying his respects, as he calls it."

"What, Mr. Harcourt?"

"Yes, Mr. Harcourt. And he sends grapes in spring, and turkeys in summer, and green peas in
winter."

"Green peas in winter! they must cost something."

"Of course they do; sprats to catch big fish with, Mr. George. And then the old gentleman has
got a new lawyer; some sharp new light of Mr. Harcourt's recommending. Oh, Mr. George, Mr.
George! do be careful, do now! Could not you go and buy a few ducks, or pigeons, and take them
in a basket? The old gentleman does seem to like that kind of thing, though ten years since
he was so different. Half a million of money, Mr. George! It's worth a few grapes and turkeys."
And Mr. Pritchett shook his head and wrung his hands; for he saw that nothing he said produced
any effect.

George went to Hadley at last without ducks or pigeons, grapes or turkeys. He was very much
amused however with the perpetual industry of his friend. "Labor omnia vincit improbus" said
he to himself. "It is possible that Harcourt will find my uncle's blind side at last."

He found the old gentleman considerably changed. There were, occasionally, flashes of his former
customary, sarcastic pungency; now and again he would rouse himself to be ill-natured, antagonistic,
and self-willed. But old age and illness had sadly told upon him; and he was content for the
most part to express his humour by little shrugs, shakes of the head, and an irritable manner
he had lately acquired of rubbing his hands quickly together.

"Well, George," he said, when his nephew shook hands with him and asked after his health.

"I hope you are better than you were, sir. I was sorry to hear that you had been again suffering."

"Suffer, yes; a man looks to suffer when he gets to my age. He's a fool if he doesn't, at least.
Don't trouble yourself to be sorry about it, George."

"I believe you saw my father not long since?" Bertram said this, not quite knowing how to set
the conversation going, so that he might bring in the tidings he had come there to communicate.

"Yes, I did," said Mr. Bertram senior; and his hands went to work as he sat in the arm-chair.

"Did you find him much altered since you last met? It was a great many years since, I believe?"

"Not in the least altered. Your father will never alter."

George now knew enough of his father's character to understand the point of this; so he changed
the subject, and did that which a man who has anything to tell should always do at once; he
commenced the telling of it forthwith.

"I have come down here, to-day, sir, because I think it right to let you know at once that
Miss Waddington and I have agreed that our engagement shall be at an end."

Mr. Bertram turned sharp round in his chair. "What?" said he. "What?"

"Our engagement is at an end. We are both aware that it is better for us it should be so."

"What do you mean? Better for you! How can it be better for you? You are two fools."

"Very likely, sir. We have been two fools; or, at any rate, I have been one."

Mr. Bertram sat still in his chair, silent for a few moments. He still kept rubbing his hands,
but in meditation rather than in anger. Though his back reached to the back of his chair, his
head was brought forward and leaned almost on his chest. His cheeks had fallen in since George
had seen him, and his jaw hung low, and gave a sad, thoughtful look to his face, in which also
there was an expression of considerable pain. His nephew saw that what he had said had grieved
him, and was sorry for it.

"George," he said, in a softer voice than had ever been usual with him. "I wish you to marry
Caroline. Go back to her, and make it up. Tell her that I wish it, if it be necessary to tell
her anything."

"Ah, sir, I cannot do that. I should not have come to you now if there had been any room for
doubt."

"There must be no room for doubt. This is nonsense; sheer nonsense. I shall send to Mary."
George had never before heard him call Miss Baker by her Christian name.

"It cannot be helped, sir. Miss Baker can do nothing in the matter now; nor can any one else.
We both know that the marriage would not suit us."

"Not suit you! nonsense. Two babies; two fools! I tell you it will suit you; it will suit me!"

Now had George Bertram junior not been an absolute ass, or a mole rather with no eyesight whatever
for things above ground, he would have seen from this that he might not only have got back
his love, but have made sure of being his uncle's heir into the bargain. At any rate, there
was sufficient in what he said to insure him a very respectable share of those money-bags.
How would Pritchett have rejoiced had he heard the old man speak so! and then how would he
have sighed and wheezed when he saw the young man's indifference!

But George would not take the hint. He must have been blind and dull, and dead and senseless.
Who before had ever heard Mr. Bertram senior speak out in that way? "It will suit me!" And
that from an old bachelor, with uncountable money-bags, to his only nephew! and such a request,
too, as it conveyed--that he would again make himself agreeable to a beautiful girl whom he
thoroughly loved, and by whom also he was thoroughly loved! But George was an ass, as we have
said; and a mole, a blind mole; and a mule, a stiff-necked, stubborn mule. He would not yield
an inch to his uncle; nor an inch to his own feelings.

"I am sorry to vex you, sir," he said, coldly, "but it is impossible."

"Oh, very well," said the uncle, as he compressed his lips, and moved his hands. "Very well."
And so they parted.

George went back to town and commenced his preparations for Paris. But on the following day
he received the unwonted honour of a visit from Mr. Pritchett, and the honour was very pointed;
in this wise. Mr. Pritchett, not finding him at home, had gone to a neighbouring tavern "to
get a bit of dinner," as he told the woman at the chambers; and stated, that he should go on
calling till he did find Mr. George. And in this way, on his third or fourth visit, Mr. George
was found.

Mr. Pritchett was dressed in his best, and was very sad and solemn. "Mr. George," said he,
"your uncle wishes to see you at Hadley, particular."

"Why, I was there yesterday."

"I know you was, Mr. George; and that's just it. Your uncle, Mr. George, is an old man, and
it will be only dutiful you should be with him a good deal now. You'd wish to be a comfort
to your uncle in his last days. I know that, Mr. George. He's been good to you; and you've
your duty to do by him now, Mr. George; and you'll do it." So said Mr. Pritchett, having thoroughly
argued the matter in his own mind, and resolved, that as Mr. George was a wilful young horse,
who would not be driven in one kind of bridle, another must be tried with him.

"But has my uncle sent to say that he wants to see me again at once?"

"He has, Mr. George; sent to say that he wants to see you again at once, particular."

There was nothing of course for Mr. George to do but to obey, seeing that the order was so
particular. On that same evening, therefore, he put his dressing-things into a bag, and again
went down to Hadley.

On his first arrival his uncle shook hands with him with much more than ordinary kindness,
and even joked with him.

"So Pritchett came to you, did he? and sent you down at a moment's notice? ha! ha! He's a solemn
old prig, is Pritchett; but a good servant; a very good servant. When I am gone, he'll have
enough to live on; but he'll want some one to say a word to him now and again. Don't forget
what I say about him. It's not so easy to find a good servant."

George declared that he always had had, and would have, a regard for Mr. Pritchett; "though
I wish he were not quite so sad."

"Poor Pritchett! well; yes, he is sad," said the uncle, laughing; and then George went upstairs
to get ready for dinner.

The dinner, considering the house in which it was spread, was quite recherché. George said
to himself that the fat fowls which he saw must have come from Harcourt's larder. Roast mutton
and boiled beef--not together, but one on one day and the other on the next--generally constituted
the fare at Mr. Bertram's house when he did not sit down to dinner alone. But now there was
quite a little banquet. During dinner, he made sundry efforts to be agreeable; pressed his
nephew to eat, and drank wine with him in the old-fashioned affectionate manner of past days.
"Your health, George," he said. "You'll find that sherry good, I think. It ought to be, if
years can make it so."

It was good; and George was very sorry to find that the good wine had been brought out for
him. He felt that something would be required in return, and that he could not give that something.

After dinner that something was soon asked for. "George," said the old man, "I have been thinking
much since you went away the other day about you and Caroline. I have taken it into my stupid
old head to wish that you two should be married."

"Ah, sir!"

"Now listen to me. I do wish it, and what you have said has disturbed me. Now I do believe
this of you, that you are an honest lad; and though you are so fond of your own way, I don't
think you'd wish to grieve me if you could help it."

"Not if I could help it, sir; not if I could help it, certainly."

"You can help it. Now listen to me. An old man has no right to have his fancies unless he chooses
to pay for them. I know that well enough. I don't want to ask you why you have quarrelled with
Caroline. It's about money, very likely?"

"No, sir, no; not in the least."

"Well, I don't want to inquire. A small limited income is very likely to lead to misunderstandings.
You have at any rate been honest and true to me. You are not a bit like your father."

"Sir! sir!"

"And, and--I'll tell you what I'll do. Caroline is to have six thousand pounds, isn't she?"

"Pray believe me, sir, that money has nothing whatever to do with this matter."

"Yes, six," continued Mr. Bertram; "four of her own, and two from me. Now I'll tell you what
I'll do. Let me see. You have two hundred a year; that's settled on you. And you had a thousand
pounds the other day. Is that all gone yet?"

"I am in no want of money, uncle; none whatever."

"No, not as a bachelor; but as a married man you would be. Now do tell me--how much of that
thousand pounds did the colonel get out of you?"

"Dear uncle, do remember that he is my father."

"Well, well; two hundred a year, and two thousand pounds, and one, and Pritchett's account.
I'll tell you what, George, I should like to see you comfortable; and if you and Caroline are
married before next October, I'll give you--"

"I can't tell you how you pain me, sir."

"I'll give you-- I wonder how much income you think you'll want?"

"None, sir; none. As our marriage is out of the question, we shall want no income. As I am,
and am likely to remain unmarried, my present income is sufficient for me."

"I'll give you--let me see." And the old miser--for though capable of generosity to a great
extent, as he had certainly shown with reference to his nephew's early years, he certainly
was a miser--the old miser again recapitulated to himself all that he had already done, and
tried to calculate at what smallest figure, at what lowest amount of ready money to be paid
down, he could purchase the object which he now desired. "I'll give you four thousand pounds
on the day you are married. There, that will be ten thousand beside your own income, and whatever
your profession will bring you."

"What am I to say, sir? I know how generous you are; but this is not an affair of money."

"What is it then?"

"We should not be happy together."

"Not happy together! You shall be happy, I tell you; you will be happy if you have enough to
live on. Remember, I may leave you something more than that when I die; that is, I may do so
if you please me. You will understand, however, that I make no promise."

"Dear uncle," said George, and as he spoke he rose from his seat, and crossing over to his
uncle, took the old man's hand in his own. "You shall be asked for no promise; you shall be
asked for nothing. You have been most liberal, most kind to me; too kind, I know, for I have
not returned it by that attention which you deserved from me. But, believe me, I cannot do
as you ask me. If you will speak to Miss Waddington, she will tell you the same."

"Miss Waddington! Pshaw!"

"Caroline, I mean. It is impossible, sir. And it adds greatly to my own suffering--for I have
suffered in all this--that you also should be grieved."

"Why, you were so much in love with her the other day! Mary told me that you were dying for her."

"I cannot explain it all. But she--Caroline--doubtless will. However, pray, pray take this
for granted: the engagement between us cannot be renewed."

Old Mr. Bertram still kept his nephew's hand, and it seemed as though he liked to hold it.
He continued to look up into George's face as though striving to read there something different
from the words which he heard, something which might yet give him some consolation. He had
said that George was honest, and he believed it, as far as he could believe in honesty. But,
nevertheless, he was still meditating at what price he could buy over his nephew to his purpose.
After such a struggle as that of his whole lifetime, could he have any other faith but that
money were omnipotent? No; this of course, this necessarily was his belief. As to the sufficient
quantity--on that point it was possible for him to doubt. His nephew's manner to him was very
touching; the tone of his voice, the look of his countenance, the grief which sat on his brow,
did touch him. But they touched him in this manner; they made him feel that a few thousands
were not sufficient. He had at last a desire at his heart, a family domestic warm desire; and
he began to feel that if he were not prepared to give up his desire, he must bid high for its
fulfilment.

"George," said he, "after all, you and Caroline are the nearest relatives I have; the nearest
and the dearest."

"Caroline is your own child's child, sir."

"She is but a girl; and it would all go to some spendthrift, whose very name would be different.
And, I don't know, but I think I like you better than her. Look here now. According to my present
will, nine-tenths of my property will go to build a hospital that shall bear my name. You'll
not repeat that to anybody, will you?"

"No, sir; I will not."

"If you'll do as I would have you about this marriage, I'll make a new will, and you and your
children shall have-- I'll let you say yourself how much you shall have; there--and you shall
see the will yourself before the wedding takes place."

"What can I say to him? what can I say to him?" said George, turning away his face. "Sir, it
is quite impossible. Is not that enough? Money has nothing to do with it; can have nothing
to do with it."

"You don't think I'd deceive you, do you, and make another will afterwards? It shall be a deed
of gift if you like, or a settlement--to take effect of course after my death." On hearing
this George turned away his face. "You shall have half, George; there, by G---- you shall have
half; settled on you--there--half of it, settled on you." And then only did the uncle drop
his nephew's hand. He dropped it, and closing his eyes, began to meditate on the tremendous
sacrifice he had made.

There was something terrible in this to young Bertram. He had almost ceased to think of himself
in watching his uncle's struggles. It was dreadful to see how terribly anxious the old man
was, and more dreadful still to witness the nature of the thoughts which were running through
his mind. He was making lavish tenders of his heaven, his god, his blessings; he was offering
to part with his paradise, seeing that nature would soon imperatively demand that he should
part with it. But useless as it must soon be to him, he could not bring himself to believe
that it was not still all-powerful with others.

"Mr. Bertram, it is clearly necessary that we should understand each other," said George, with
a voice that he intended should be firm, but which in truth was stern as well as firm. "I thought
it right to come and tell you that this match was broken off. But seeing that that has once
been told, there is no longer room for further conversation on the matter. We have made up
our minds to part; and, having done so, I can assure you that money can have no effect upon
our resolution."

"Then you want it all--all!" said the uncle, almost weeping.

"Not all, nor ten times all would move me one inch--not one inch," said George, in a voice
that was now loud, and almost angry.

Mr. Bertram turned towards the table, and buried his face in his hands. He did not understand
it. He did not know whence came all this opposition. He could not conceive what was the motive
power which caused his nephew thus to thwart and throw him over, standing forward as he did
with thousands and tens of thousands in his hand. But he knew that his request was refused,
and he felt himself degraded and powerless.

"Do not be angry with me, uncle," said the nephew.

"Go your own way, sir; go your own way," said the uncle. "I have done with you. I had thought--but
never mind--" and he rang the bell violently. "Sarah, I will go to bed--are my things ready?
Woman, is my room ready, I say?" and then he had himself led off, and George saw him no more
that night.

Nor did he see him the next morning; nor for many a long day afterwards. When the morning came,
he sent in his love, with a hope that his uncle was better. Sarah, coming out with a long face,
told George that his uncle had only muttered between his teeth--"That it was nothing to him"--to
his nephew, namely--"whether he were better or worse." And so, having received this last message,
he went his way, and returned to town.

CHAPTER X.

DOES HE KNOW IT YET?

Almost immediately after this George Bertram did go to Paris; but before he went he received
a letter from Arthur Wilkinson, begging him to go down to Hurst Staple. This was Arthur's answer
to the letter in which Bertram had communicated the last news from Littlebath. There were not
as many words in the letter as there had been in that from Adela to Caroline; but they were
much to the same effect. "This is an important step, old fellow; very: pray--pray be careful;
for your own sake and hers. I am not good at letter-writing, as you know; but come down here
and talk it over. I have other things of my own I want to talk about. The spare bedroom is
empty." That was nearly the whole of it. In answer to this, Bertram had declared his intention
of going to Paris, but had promised to go down to Hurst Staple as soon as he returned home.

At this time the popularity of Louis Philippe was on the wane. The grocers of Paris were becoming
sick of their paternal citizen king, who, in spite of his quiet family costume and citizen
umbrella, seemed to think as much as some other kings of crowds of soldiers, of fortifications,
and war taxes; who seemed to think also that free-spoken deputies might be judiciously controlled,
that a paternally-royal family might be judiciously enriched, and that a good many of the old
crown tenets and maxims might again be judiciously brought to bear upon the commonwealth. Poor
grocers! too much prosperity had made them over-nice. When Mr. Smith had been about six months
gone from them, how gladly would they have had him back again!

But they are again satisfied. The grocer interest, which on the whole may perhaps be looked
on as predominant in Paris, is once more swathed in rose-leaves. The swathings certainly are
somewhat tight; and rose-leaves may be twisted till there is no breaking them. But there will
still remain the fragrance, the pot-pourri odour which is so delectable to ancient housewives,
the oily savour of plenteousness. If a king can so devise that chocolate shall be sold--and
paid for--what more can a grocer interest need? What more than this, that having sold its daily
quantum of chocolate, it shall have a theatre to go to, a spectacle to look at, ices, coffee,
and eau sucrée! Since the world began to open its young eyes and look about it with any understanding,
what else has been desirable? What does a man and a grocer want? Panem et circenses; soup that
shall not be too maigre; and a seat at the Porte St. Martin that shall not be too dear. Is
it not all written in that?

England a nation of shopkeepers! No, let us hope not; not as yet, at any rate. There have been
nations to whom the buying and selling of bread and honey--especially of honey--has been everything;
lost nations--people deadened, whose souls were ever sleeping, whose mouths only and gastric
organs attested that life was in them. There were such people in the latter days of ancient
Rome; there were such also in that of Eastern Rome upon the Bosphorus; rich and thriving people,
with large mouths and copious bellies, wanting merely the salt of life. But let us hope that
no English people will be such as long as the roads are open to Australia, to Canada, and New
Zealand.

A young man whose life was to be spent in writing politico-religious pamphlets had much to
learn in Paris in those days. Indeed, Paris has ever been a school for such writers since men
began to find that something was wrong, even under the reign of the great Dubarry. Since those
days it has been the laboratory of the political alchemist, in which everything hitherto held
precious has been reduced to a residuum, in order that from the ashes might be created that
great arcanum, a fitting constitution under which thinking men may live contented. The secret
had been hardly solved in those latter days of poor Louis Philippe. Much had certainly been
done when a citizen king was thought of and set agoing; but even a citizen king required to
be wound up, and the alchemist was still at his crucibles.

Now, indeed, the work has been finished. The laboratory is closed. The philosopher, his task
all done, has retired to his needed rest. Thinking men, even thinking Frenchmen, can live contented.
Chocolate is sold--and paid for. And a score and a half of daily theatres are open at the most
moderate of prices.

Intent on such things, and on his coming volume, our young broken-hearted philosopher stayed
out three months at Paris. We need not follow him very closely in his doings there. His name
was already sufficiently known to secure his admittance amongst those learned men who, if they
had hitherto established little, had at any rate achieved the doubting of much. While he was
here the British Ministry went out of office. Sir Robert, having repealed the corn laws, fell
to the ground between two stools, and the number of the "Daily Jupiter" which gave the first
authentic list of the members of the new government, contained, among the few new names that
were mentioned, that of Sir Henry Harcourt as Her Majesty's solicitor-general.

At the end of the three months Bertram returned to England, enriched by many new ideas as to
the government of mankind in general. His volume was not yet finished. So he packed up his
papers in his portmanteau and took them down with him to Hurst Staple. He saw no one as he
passed through London. The season was then over, and his friend Sir Henry was refreshing himself
with ten days' grouse-shooting after the successful campaign of the last session. But had he
been in London, Bertram would not have seen him, for he saw no one. He asked no questions about
Caroline, nor any about his uncle. He did not even call on his sincere friend Pritchett. Had
he done so, he would have learned that Miss Baker and her niece were both staying at Hadley.
He might also have learned other news, which, however, was not long in following him.

He went down to Hurst Staple, merely writing a line the day before he started, to prepare his
friend for his advent. But when he reached the vicarage, Arthur Wilkinson was not there. He
was at Oxford; but had left word that he was to be summoned home as soon as Bertram arrived.
The ladies, however, expected him, and there would have been nothing for him to remark in the
state of the quiet household had there not been another visitor in the house. Adela Gauntlet
was staying there, and she was dressed in the deepest mourning.

The story was soon told to him. Mr. Gauntlet had one morning been found dead in his dressing-room.
The good old man had been full of years, and there was nothing frightful in his death but its
suddenness. But sudden death is always frightful. Overnight he had been talking to his daughter
with his usual quiet, very quiet, mirth; and in the morning she was woke with the news that
his spirit had fled. His mirth for this world was over. His worldly duties were done. He had
received his daughter's last kiss, had closed for the last time the book which had been his
life's guide, had whispered to heaven his last prayer, and his soul was now at rest.

There was nothing in this that the world need regard as mournful. There was no pain, no mental
pangs, no dire remorse. But for Adela the suddenness had been very dreadful.

Among her other miseries had been the great misery of having to seek a home. An Englishman's
house is his castle. And a rector's parsonage is as much the rector's castle, his own freehold
castle, as is the earl's family mansion that of the earl. But it is so with this drawback,
that the moment the rector's breath is out of his body, all right and claim to the castle as
regards his estate and family cease instantly. If the widow and children remain there one night,
they remain there on sufferance.

Adela's future home would now necessarily be with her aunt, Miss Penelope Gauntlet; but it
happened most unfortunately that at the moment of her brother's death, Miss Gauntlet was absent
with other relatives in Italy. They are extinguish through way until i am certain. I divide
head, in courses: the toe (a footwear), shot (the half-bottom), bottom, apartment. With knees,
their spike, oblique, access, at sides, importance, cognition, so. I read status. They believe
i know you think to grave is gone on run-through, i tweak it. Normally, i defeat them mean voice. First
step. They do the i seek them what have it name experiment. They utilize
foot, to 4/ 4 accelerando. They recognize it know on eight number,
bottom, popular. I admonish them was to knee when i bring floor,
in lives.

They know it, they know weight, they speak head, on spike. I go away doing that, i set formation,
where everybody can make me, i storm carabiner.

I pick you disrespect hand, around stairs; right, hop, it left, 2, 3, 4; correct, hop, right, 3,
4; here through re, of--/ 4. Me. I find clumsy, awkward. The, mr, mind, mental. Them in numbers
about the who have understand, i do not inquire every day are nervous
misery.

Far take i speed i. One. But the who have the gracility. Never. They acquire i. A groups, the
ones that i acquire it and ones that it do't. I. I don her or him, softened to myself, 1, 3, 5,
8, 9, 14, it; these shelter'element. I prompt them land it. I go they are travel to do my employment.
I individualise operation. The ones are interested. There are ago softened of people who travel
this calls are out for the oriole, oh they must be admit at bellow. Ever which monad are travel to
practise activity. I have these experiment i convey you know this 2-4. Two on right, old, left.
Know to do that to 2-4.

Who are the apt, i know present if they had always done anything in baby, song, that they played
a substance. The will lose away, i tell they have done.

I transport to names and was thus what they have done or they can do, card. We am getting of expert.
Gamelan. I am trying in miss. I idle they recognize it. I transport
them all enthused about i, i am able radical is travel to be what
have i call adagio.

They must be this ones, foot, head, and four. Who are a Mr, they could be a "instrumentality,"
description "i miss between" ones. I think girl, at woman, who should't,
bad, s are good things.

I have the groups, course, i arrive of members of art sank. Entertainment-miss
may be that dignified, heading. I mean a girls who have natural ma.
I have eight, bathos, course.

The others fathom'pyrimidine will be the mediums, show-woman neglect it miss side, at corners,
or do "parade," ambulation. It act i yield their next discourage a principal in hand. I have
copies of ms, at sets of parts.

It is no musical, i have a drama. If it is the s, i have all of skits to me. I have the principals
and rig-set on i target my papers about case in i get as a "scripts," portion, have etc. Ago,
we have the caucus. Musician, they convey i think along songs. Whoever is travel to be a Mr. Of
coaches that i carry me. Director, you, worker (the "mr'") at right. Rather, this who want to
indicate for me are say at world; that is, dialogue.

Immediately which anticipate to activity. They are name at principal. I don those who mean to overlook,
sort, "feat" you can be taken in show. I have had the thing. I have had them do magic, parody, show, feat
which i have put in show. We had the entertainment who did the cry.
I saw him standing, he will do the lady. "i intend't sometimes,"
he sank. He was smoke as day, "the is the Iodine-131 can do."

He with course, two, it, he was smoke with terminal of lodge of mouth. He put, mouth. Thus, i had him
do a time, spot, misery.'t defeat i was doing was travel to go over
all, Element can lose, apropos, i ignore much "spot".

I get the 50-ampere (perhaps weak) on face, device.

Always, there was the mr than anything ever in display. It had commercial.
Him do t. She had feat that had danced for period, they break't.
Of ma, in all, Pritchett, we call it, there has to be in place. Or
entertainment-- whatever you call them have-- you lose.

I do the adhocracy, about entertainments and Iodine-131 must observe
heart. I might be able. You should not have the work.

People to do lots of things repeat entertaining. After all, you are hatch the amusement. You rate
present, we allow audience, not have the feat that everyone has rate
to clip.

Into groups acquire their names down Harcourt, i and the chancellor.

I intend any first; but they have to insist i have before Who, they have had, she. They know grand and
pluck yes. But i try to be tactless and such one, thing. They get time. They are model before
me, i wear quality. I choose conversation. I didn their fang, and personalities, cognition. If they
are in things and they will be bring of day, i break it and batting. I see them, number, figure,
one, i. All of the who are seek for parts are qualified as they should be, i forget you whistle
anyone. Them see i acquire i may do. I acquire paper. You end them wear i acquire up which
is the performer, carnival.'mho. Her all have known to be put in display. You would know i see those
numbers are all in nullity, you set a acts that it miss. Way. It is the placement, they are failed
to-- that they do it have there makes or entertainment. One identity will know well determine show,
if not have known usually see i or rest. Casting can be done with judgement. Ve have my tilt
worked out, i come citizenry who are capable years. May have had previous, employment. This shows is
properly softened. It is the. show't name up. Them are terrible. They don't cognize concern. They play'pyrimidine
cognize how to acquire entertainment. They observe'pyrimidine say
how to sit diversion. They get'they demonstrate one.

They do not mind how to rehearse duologue or how to know they.

A coaches
are amost, that they are not competent from write anybody. Amateur, have ever. It is other which
is only, which intend a staff, who are down to the lowest rut and very. You understand you know
you have use has been to school, to dances know from staging.

Why state i is from extremity? It be me pass t sank. Before you set them ignore you, you note portion
and it had at hand down and make through hitherto. Them wear't learn part. Relation, they are
gone to s. They talk on begins about inch, reasonably what they are to parts. Part are laid of
we experience speeches. It can be four formation or affray or lyric. "yes" is this speech. What they
is what their vocalization. What i have to seek the "allocution," parenthesis must be the "phase"
they are to do. It should be in parenthesis. Liquid. They know dialogue,
they say allocution; that i is, they use gallery. It is how i hop
them.

They presume question. Sentence. They wear soft. Expression. Element who find i know by-get
mr. She are only at first. Mr, the ballplayer yes now do anything else of environment. They know
it, coach believe they think cross, yes it doesn't learn thing. I observe that merely, it was
inane. Nobody should not stay for moving. There is this vocalization. She split any relation,
soma will be able. If a radiance, i sit usually. If it is always, director would postdate it
wish it miss t. Rehearsal, those substance will be project, than one'gentleman can be try for parts.
 He should get married then. Look at Adela Gauntlet there!"

"Nonsense, George; pray don't put that into his head. What has he to marry on? And as for Adela,
if she has fifteen hundred pounds it will be every farthing. And what's that for a family?"

"But Arthur has a living."

"Now, George, don't you be talking in that way to him. In one sense he has a living; for, situated
as things at present are, of course I cannot hold it in my own hands. But in real truth he
has not a living--not of his own. Lord Stapledean, whom I shall always regard as the very first
nobleman in the land, and a credit to the whole peerage, expressly gave the living to me."

"To you, aunt?"

"Yes, expressly to me. And now I fear Arthur is discontented because he knows that I choose
to remain mistress of my own house. I have done everything I can to make the house pleasant
to him. He has the same study his dear father always had; and he has his own separate horse
in the stable, which is more than his father had."

"But Arthur has his fellowship."

"And where would his fellowship be if he married Adela Gauntlet? I do hope you'll say something
to him to make him more contented. I say nothing about his conduct to me. I don't suppose he
means to be undutiful."

And then Bertram did manage to escape; and taking his hat he walked away along that same river-path
which led to West Putford--that same path which Arthur Wilkinson had used to take when he went
fishing in those happy early days before promotion had come to him, and the glories of manhood.

But George was not thinking now of Arthur or of Adela. He had enough of sorrow in his own breast
to make his mind selfish for the present--Caroline Waddington was to be married! to be married
so soon after getting quit of her former bondage; to be married to Henry Harcourt. There was
no chance left now, no hope, no possibility that he might regain the rich prize which he had
flung away.

And did he wish to regain it? Was it not now clear enough that she had never loved him? In
May, while the fruits were filling, they had separated; and now before they were well ripe
she had given herself to another! Love him! no, indeed. Was it possible that she should love
any man?--that she, who could so redeem herself and so bestow herself, should have any heart,
any true feeling of what love is?

And yet this was not the worst of it. Such love as she had to give, had she not given it to
this Harcourt even before she had rescued herself from her former lover? Had she not given
this man her preference, such preference as she had to give, then, then when she was discussing
with him how best to delay her nuptials with her acknowledged suitor? This successful, noisy,
pushing, worldly man had won her by his success and his worldliness. The glitter of the gold
had caught her; and so she had been unhappy, and had pined, and worn herself with grief till
she could break away from her honest troth, and bind herself to the horn of the golden calf.

'Twas thus that he now thought of her, thus that he spoke of her to himself out loud, now that
he could wander alone, with no eye to watch him, no ear to hear him. And yet he loved her with
a strong love, with a mad passion such as he had never felt before. Much as he blamed her,
thoroughly as he despised her for being so venal; yet he blamed, nay, scorned, himself more
vehemently in that he had let this plausible knave with his silken words rob from him the only
treasure worth his having. Why had he not toiled? Why had he not made a name for himself? Why
had he not built a throne on which his lady-love might sit and shine before the world?

CHAPTER XI.

HURST STAPLE.

The next three or four days passed by heavily enough, and then Arthur Wilkinson returned. He
returned on a Saturday evening; as clergymen always do, so as to be ready for their great day
of work. There are no Sabbath-breakers to be compared, in the vehemence of their Sabbath-breaking,
to hard-worked parochial clergymen--unless, indeed, it be Sunday-school children, who are forced
on that day to learn long dark collects, and stand in dread catechismal row before their spiritual
pastors and masters.

In the first evening there was that flow of friendship which always exists for the few first
hours of meeting between men who are really fond of each other. And these men were fond of
each other; the fonder perhaps because each of them had now cause for sorrow. Very little was
said between Arthur and Adela. There was not apparently much to alarm the widow in their mutual
manner, or to make her think that Miss Gauntlet was to be put in her place. Adela sat among
the other girls, taking even less share in the conversation than they did; and Arthur, though
he talked as became the master of the house, talked but little to her.

On the following morning they all went to church, of course. Who has courage to remain away
from church when staying at the clergyman's house? No one ever; unless it be the clergyman's
wife, or perhaps an independent self-willed daughter. At Hurst Staple, however, on this Sunday
they all attended. Adela was in deepest mourning. Her thick black veil was down, so as to hide
her tears. The last Sunday she had been at church her father had preached his last sermon.

Bertram, as he entered the door, could not but remember how long it was since he had joined
in public worship. Months and months had passed over him since he had allowed himself to be
told that the Scriptures moved him in sundry places to acknowledge and confess his sins. And
yet there had been a time when he had earnestly poured forth his frequent prayers to heaven;
a time not long removed. It was as yet hardly more than three years since he had sworn within
himself on the brow of Olivet to devote himself to the service of his Saviour. Why had that
oath been broken? A girl had ridiculed it; a young girl had dissipated all that by the sheen
of her beauty, by the sparkle of her eye, by the laughter of her ruddy lip. He had promised
himself to his God, but the rustling of silks had betrayed his heart. At her instance, at her
first word, that promise had been whistled down the wind.

And to what had this brought him now? As for the bright eyes, and the flashing beauty, and
the ruddy lips, they were made over in fee-simple to another, who was ready to go further than
he had gone in seeking this world's vanities. Even the price of his apostasy had vanished from him.

But was this all? was this nearly all? was this as anything to that further misery which had
come upon him? Where was his faith now, his true, youthful, ardent faith; the belief of his
inner heart; the conviction of a God and a Saviour, which had once been to him the source of
joy? Had it all vanished when, under the walls of Jerusalem, over against that very garden
of Gethsemane, he had exchanged the aspirations of his soul for the pressure of a soft white hand?

No one becomes an infidel at once. A man who has really believed does not lose by a sudden
blow the firm convictions of his soul. But when the work has been once commenced, when the
first step has been taken, the pace becomes frightfully fast. Three years since his belief
had been like the ardour of young love, and now what were his feelings? Men said that he was
an infidel; but he would himself deny it with a frigid precision, with the stiffest accuracy
of language; and then argue that his acknowledgment of a superhuman creative power was not
infidelity. He had a God of his own, a cold, passionless, prudent God; the same God, he said,
to whom others looked; with this only difference, that when others looked with fanatic enthusiasm,
he looked with well-balanced reason. But it was the same God, he said. And as to the Saviour,
he had a good deal also to say on that subject; a good deal which might show that he was not
so far from others as others thought. And so he would prove that he was no infidel.

But could he thus satisfy himself now that he again heard the psalms of his youth? and remembered
as he listened, that he had lost for ever that beauty which had cost him so dear? Did he not
now begin to think--to feel perhaps rather than to think--that, after all, the sound of the
church bells was cheering, that it was sweet to kneel there where others knelt, sweet to hear
the voices of those young children as they uttered together the responses of the service? Was
he so much wiser than others that he could venture on his own judgment to set himself apart,
and to throw over as useless all that was to others so precious?

Such were his feelings as he sat, and knelt, and stood there--mechanically as it were, remembering
the old habits. And then he tried to pray. But praying is by no means the easiest work to which
a man can set himself. Kneeling is easy; the repetition of the well-known word is easy; the
putting on of some solemnity of mind is perhaps not difficult. But to remember what you are
asking, why you are asking, of whom you are asking; to feel sure that you want what you do
ask, and that this asking is the best way to get it;--that on the whole is not easy. On this
occasion Bertram probably found it utterly beyond his capacity.

He declined to go to afternoon church. This is not held to be de rigueur even in a parson's
house, unless it be among certain of the strictly low-church clergymen. A very high churchman
may ask you to attend at four o'clock of a winter morning, but he will not be grievously offended
if, on a Sunday afternoon, you prefer your arm-chair, and book--probably of sermons; but that
is between you and your conscience.

They dined early, and in the evening, Bertram and his host walked out. Hitherto they had had
but little opportunity of conversation, and Bertram longed to talk to some one of what was
within his breast. On this occasion, however, he failed. Conversation will not always go exactly
as one would have it.

"I was glad to see you at church to-day," said the parson. "To tell you the truth, I did not
expect it. I hope it was not intended as a compliment to me."

"I rather fear it was, Arthur."

"You mean that you went because you did not like to displease us by staying away?"

"Something like it," said Bertram, affecting to laugh. "I do not want your mother and sisters,
or you either, to regard me as an ogre. In England, at any rate in the country in England,
one is an ogre if one doesn't go to church. It does not much matter, I believe, what one does
when one is there; so long as one is quiet, and lets the parson have his say."

"There is nothing so easy as ridicule, especially in matters of religion."

"Quite true. But then it is again true that it is very hard to laugh at anything that is not
in some point ridiculous."

"And God's worship is ridiculous?"

"No; but any pretence of worshipping God is so. And as it is but a step from the ridiculous
to the sublime, and as the true worship of God is probably the highest sublimity to which man
can reach; so, perhaps, is he never so absolutely absurd, in such a bathos of the ridiculous,
as when he pretends to do so."

"Every effort must sometimes fall short of success."

"I'll explain what I mean," said Bertram, attending more to himself than his companion. "What
idea of man can be so magnificent as that which represents him with his hands closed, and his
eyes turned to that heaven with which he holds communion? But imagine the man so placed, and
holding no such communion! You will at once have run down the whole gamut of humanity from
St. Paul to Pecksniff."

"But that has nothing to do with belief. It is for the man to take care that he be, if possible,
nearer to St. Paul than to Pecksniff."

"No, it has nothing to do with belief; but it is a gauge, the only gauge we have, of what belief
a man has. How many of those who were sitting by silently while you preached really believed?"

"All, I hope; all, I trust. I firmly trust that they are all believers; all, including yourself."

"I wonder whether there was one; one believer in all that which you called on us to say that
we believed? one, for instance, who believes in the communion of saints? one who believes in
the resurrection of the body?"

"And why should they not believe in the communion of saints? What's the difficulty?"

"Very little, certainly; as their belief goes--what they and you call belief. Rumtunshid gara
shushabad gerostophat. That is the shibboleth of some of the Caucasian tribes. Do you believe
in Rumtunshid?"

"If you will talk gibberish when talking on such a matter, I had rather change the subject."

"Now you are unreasonable, and want to have all the gibberish to yourself. That you should
have it all to yourself in your own pulpit we accede to you; but out here, on the heath, surely
I may have my turn. You do not believe in Rumtunshid? Then why should farmer Buttercup be called
on to believe in the communion of the saints? What does he believe about it? Or why should
you make little Flora Buttercup tell such a huge fib as to say, that she believes in the resurrection
of the body?"

"It is taught her as a necessary lesson, and will be explained to her at the proper age."

"No; there is no proper age for it. It will never be explained to her. Neither Flora nor her
father will ever understand anything about it. But they will always believe it. Am I old enough
to understand it? Explain it to me. No one yet has ever attempted to do so; and yet my education
was not neglected."

Wilkinson had too great a fear of his friend's powers of ridicule to venture on an explanation;
so he again suggested that they should change the subject.

"That is always the way," said Bertram. "I never knew a clergyman who did not want to change
the subject when that subject is the one on which he should be ever willing to speak."

"If there be anything that you deem holy, you would not be willing to hear it ridiculed."

"There is much that I deem holy, and for that I fear no laughter. I am ready to defy ridicule.
But if I talk to you of the asceticism of Stylites, and tell you that I admire it, and will
imitate it, will you not then laugh at me? Of course we ridicule what we think is false. But
ridicule will run off truth like water from a duck's back. Come, explain to me this about the
resurrection of the body."

"Yet, in my flesh, shall I see God," said Arthur, in a solemn tone.

"But I say, no. It is impossible."

"Nothing is impossible with God."

"Yes; it is impossible that his own great laws should change. It is impossible that they should
remain, and yet not remain. Your body--that which we all call our body--that which Flora Buttercup
believes to be her body (for in this matter she does believe) will turn itself, through the
prolific chemistry of nature, into various productive gases by which other bodies will be formed.
With which body will you see Christ? with that which you now carry, or that you will carry
when you die? For, of course, every atom of your body changes."

"It little matters which. It is sufficient for me to believe as the Scriptures teach me."

"Yes; if one could believe. A Jew, when he drags his dying limbs to the valley of Jehoshaphat,
he can believe. He, in his darkness, knows nothing of these laws of nature. But we will go
to people who are not in darkness. If I ask your mother what she means when she says--'Not
by confusion of substance; but by unity of person,' what will she answer me?"

"It is a subject which it will take her some time to explain."

"Yes, I think so; and me some time longer to understand."

Wilkinson was determined not to be led into argument, and so he remained silent. Bertram was
also silent for awhile, and they walked on, each content with his own thoughts. But yet not
content. Wilkinson would have been contented to be let alone; to have his mind, and faith,
and hopes left in the repose which nature and education had prepared for them. But it was not
so with Bertram. He was angry with himself for not believing, and angry with others that they
did believe. They went on in this way for some ten minutes, and then Bertram began again.

"Ah, that I could believe! If it were a thing to come at, as a man wishes, who would doubt?
But you, you, the priest, the teacher of the people, you, who should make it all so easy, you
will make it so difficult, so impossible. Belief, at any rate, should be easy, though practice
may be hard."

"You should look to the Bible, not to us."

"Yes; it is there that is our stumbling-block. A book is given to us, not over well translated
from various languages, part of which is history hyperbolically told--for all Eastern language
is hyperbolical; part of which is prophecy, the very meaning of which is lost to us by the
loss of those things which are intended to be imaged out; and part of which is thanksgiving
uttered in the language of men who knew nothing, and could understand nothing of those rules
by which we are to be governed."

"You are talking of the Old Testament?"

"It is given to us as one whole. Then we have the story of a mystery which is above, or, at
least, beyond the utmost stretch of man's comprehension; and the very purport of which is opposed
to all our ideas of justice. In the jurisprudence of heaven can that be just which here, on
earth, is manifestly unjust?"

"Is your faith in God so weak then, and your reliance on yourself so firm, that you can believe
nothing beyond your own comprehension?"

"I believe much that I do not understand. I believe the distance of the earth from the sun.
I believe that the seed of a man is carried in a woman, and then brought forth to light, a
living being. I do not understand the principle of this wondrous growth. But yet I believe
it, and know that it is from God. But I cannot believe that evil is good. I cannot believe
that man placed here by God shall receive or not receive future happiness as he may chance
to agree or not to agree with certain doctors who, somewhere about the fourth century, or perhaps
later, had themselves so much difficulty in coming to any agreement on the disputed subject."

"I think, Bertram, that you are going into matters which you know are not vital to faith in
the Christian religion."

"What is vital, and what is not? If I could only learn that! But you always argue in a circle.
I am to have faith because of the Bible; but I am to take the Bible through faith. Whence is
the first spring of my faith to come? where shall I find the fountain-head?"

"In prayer to God."

"But can I pray without faith? Did any man ever kneel before a log, and ask the log that he
might believe in the log? Had he no faith in the log, could it be possible that he should be
seen there kneeling before it?"

"Has the Bible then for you no intrinsic evidence of its truth?"

"Yes, most irrefragable evidence; evidence that no thinking man can possibly reject. Christ's
teaching, the words that I have there as coming from his mouth are irresistible evidence of
his fitness to teach. But you will permit me to use no such evidence. I must take it all, from
the beginning of my career, before I can look into its intrinsic truth. And it must be all
true to me: the sun standing still upon Gibeon no less than the divine wisdom which showed
that Cæsar's tribute should be paid to Cæsar."

"If every man and every child is to select, how shall we ever have a creed? and if no creed,
how shall we have a church?"

"And if no church, how then parsons? Follow it on, and it comes to that. But, in truth, you
require too much; and so you get--nothing. Your flocks do not believe, do not pray, do not
listen to you. They are not in earnest. In earnest! Heavens! if a man could believe all this,
could be in earnest about it, how possibly could he care for other things? But no; you pride
yourselves on faith; but you have no faith. There is no such thing left. In these days men
do not know what faith is."

In the evening, when the ladies had gone to their rooms, they were again together; and Bertram
thought that he would speak of Caroline. But he was again foiled. There had been some little
bickering on the part of Mrs. Wilkinson. She had been querulous, and had not cared to hide
it, though George and Adela were sitting there as guests. This had made her son unhappy, and
he now spoke of it.

"I am sorry you should hear my mother speak in that way, George. I hope I am not harsh to her.
I try to refrain from answering her. But unless I go back to my round jackets, and take my
food from her hand like a child, I cannot please her."

"Perhaps you are too careful to please her. I think you should let her know that, to a certain
extent, you must be master in your own house."

"Ah! I have given that up long since. She has an idea that the house is hers. I do not care
to thwart her in that. Perhaps I should have done it at first; but it is too late now. To-night
she was angry with me because I would not read a sermon."

"And why then didn't you?"

"I have preached two to-day." And the young clergyman yawned somewhat wearily. "She used to
read them herself. I did put a stop to that."

"Why so? why not let her read them?"

"The girls used to go to sleep, always--and then the servants slept also, I don't think she
has a good voice for sermons. But I am sure of this, George--she has never forgiven me."

"And never will."

"Sometimes, I almost think she would wish to take my place in the pulpit."

"The wish is not at all unnatural, my dear fellow."

"The truth is, that Lord Stapledean's message to her, and his conduct about the living, has
quite upset her. I cannot blame Lord Stapledean. What he did was certainly kind. But I do blame
myself. I never should have accepted the living on those terms--never, never. I knew it when
I did it, and I have never since ceased to repent it." And so saying he got up and walked quickly
about the room. "Would you believe it now; my mother takes upon herself to tell me in what
way I should read the absolution; and feels herself injured because I do not comply?"

"I can tell you but of one remedy, Arthur; but I can tell you of one."

"What remedy?"

"Take a wife to yourself; one who will not mind in what way you read the absolution to her."

"A wife!" said Wilkinson, and he uttered a long sigh as he continued his walk.

"Yes, a wife; why not? People say that a country clergyman should never be without a wife;
and as for myself, I firmly think that they are right."

"Every curate is to marry, then?"

"But you are not a curate."

"I should only have the income of a curate. And where should I put a wife? The house is full
of women already. Who would come to such a house as this?"

"There is Adela; would not she come if you asked her?"

"Adela!" said the young vicar. And now his walk had brought him to the further end of the table;
and there he remained for a minute or two. "Adela!"

"Yes, Adela," said Bertram.

"What a life my mother would lead her! She is fond of her now; very. But in that case I know
that she would hate her."

"If I were you, I would make my wife the mistress of my house, not my mother."

"Ah! you do not understand, George."

"But perhaps you do not like Adela--perhaps you could not teach yourself to love her?"

"Perhaps not," said Wilkinson. "And perhaps she could not teach herself to like me. But, ah!
that is out of the question."

"There is nothing between you and Adela then?" asked Bertram.

"Oh, no; nothing."

"On your honour, nothing?"

"Nothing at all. It is quite out of the question. My marrying, indeed!"

And then they took their bedroom candlesticks and went to their own rooms.

CHAPTER XII.

THE WOUNDED DOE.

It was a weary, melancholy household just then, that of Hurst Staple, and one may almost wonder
that Bertram should have remained there; but still he did remain. He had been there a fortnight,
when he learnt that in three days' time Adela was to go to Littlebath. She was to go down with
Miss Baker; and was to remain there with her, or with Miss Todd if Miss Baker should go back
to Hadley, till her own aunt should have returned.

"I don't know why you should be in such a hurry to get to Littlebath," said Mrs. Wilkinson.
"We have been very glad to have you; and I hope we have shown it." As Arthur had evinced no
symptoms of making love to Miss Gauntlet, the good lady had been satisfied, and now she felt
somewhat slighted that her hospitality was not more valued.

But Adela explained in her own soft manner that it would be better for her to leave that neighbourhood;
that her heart was sore there; that her sorrow for her father would be lighter if she were
away. What hypocrites women are! Even Ophelia in her madness would pretend that she raved for
her murdered father, when it was patent to all the world that she was mad for love for Hamlet.
And now Adela must leave Hurst Staple because, forsooth, her poor old father lay buried at
West Putford. Would not ten words have quieted that ghost for ever? But then, what is the use
of a lady's speech but to conceal her thoughts?

Bertram had spoken to Arthur about Caroline's marriage, but he had as yet said no word on the
subject to any one else. Mrs. Wilkinson had tried him once or twice, but in vain. He could
not bare his bosom to Mrs. Wilkinson.

"So you are going, Adela?" he said the morning he had heard the news. They had all called her
Adela in that house, and he had learned to do as others did. These intimacies will sometimes
grow up in five days, though an acquaintance of twenty years will often not produce them.

"Yes, Mr. Bertram. I have been a great trouble to them here, and it is time that I should be gone."

"'Welcome the coming, speed the parting guest.' Had I a house, I should endeavour to act on
that principle. I would never endeavour to keep a person who wished to go. But we shall all
regret you. And then, Littlebath is not the place for you. You will never be happy at Littlebath."

"Why not?"

"Oh, it is a wretched place; full of horse-jockeys and hags--of card-tables and false hair."

"I shall have nothing to do with the card-tables, and I hope not with the false hair--nor yet
much, I suppose, with the horse-jockeys."

"There will still remain the worst of the four curses."

"Mr. Bertram, how can you be so evil-minded? I have had many happy days at Littlebath." And
then she paused, for she remembered that her happy days there had all been passed with Caroline
Waddington.

"Yes, and I also have had happy days there," said he; "very happy. And I am sure of this--that
they would have been happy still but for the influence of that wretched place."

Adela could make no answer to this at the moment, so she went on hemming at her collar. Then,
after a pause, she said, "I hope it will have no evil influence on me."

"I hope not--I hope not. But you are beyond such influences. It seems to me, if I may say so,
that you are beyond all influences."

"Yes; as a fool is," she said, laughing.

"No; but as a rock is. I will not say as ice, for ice will always melt."

"And do I never melt, Mr. Bertram? Has that which has made you so unhappy not moved me? Do
you think that I can love Caroline as I do, and not grieve, and weep, and groan in the spirit?
I do grieve; I have wept for it. I am not stone."

And in this also there had been some craft. She had been as it were forced to guard the thoughts
of her own heart; and had, therefore, turned the river of the conversation right through the
heart of her companion.

"For whom do you weep? for which of us do you weep?" he asked.

"For both; that, having so much to enjoy, you should between you have thrown it all away."

"She will be happy. That at any rate is a consolation to me. Though you will hardly believe that."

"I hope she will. I hope she will. But, oh! Mr. Bertram, it is so fearful a risk. What--what
if she should not be? What if she shall find, when the time will be too late for finding anything--what
if she shall then find that she cannot love him?"

"Love him!" said the other with a sneer. "You do not know her. What need is there for love?"

"Ah! do not be harsh to her; do not you be harsh to her."

"Harsh, no; I will not be harsh to her. I will be all kindness. And being kind, I ask what
need is there for love? Looking at it in any light, of course she cannot love him."

"Cannot love him! why not?"

"How is it possible? Had she loved me, could she have shaken off one lover and taken up another
in two months? And if she never loved me; if for three years she could go on, never loving
me--then what reason is there to think she should want such excitement now?"

"But you--could you love her, and yet cast her from you?"

"Yes; I could do it. I did do it--and were it to do again, it should be done again. I did love
her. If I know what love is, if I can at all understand it, I did love her with all my heart.
And yet--I will not say I cast her off; it would be unmanly as well as false; but I let her go."

"Ah! you did more than that, Mr. Bertram."

"I gave her back her troth; and she accepted it;--as it was her duty to do, seeing that her
wishes were then changed. I did no more than that."

"Women, Mr. Bertram, well know that when married they must sometimes bear a sharp word. But
the sharp word before marriage; that is very hard to be borne."

"I measure my words-- But why should I defend myself? Of course your verdict will be on your
friend's side. I should hate you if it were not so. But, oh! Adela, if I have sinned, I have
been punished. I have been punished heavily. Indeed, indeed, I have been punished." And sitting
down, he bowed himself on the table, and hid his face within his hands.

This was in the drawing-room, and before Adela could venture to speak to him again, one of
the girls came into the room.

"Adela," said she, "we are waiting for you to go down to the school."

"I am coming directly," said Adela, jumping up, and still hoping that Mary would go on, so
as to leave her one moment alone with Bertram. But Mary showed no sign of moving without her
friend. Instead of doing so, she asked her cousin whether he had a headache?

"Not at all," said he, looking up; "but I am half asleep. This Hurst Staple is a sleepy place,
I think. Where's Arthur?"

"He's in the study."

"Well, I'll go into the study also. One can always sleep there without being disturbed."

"You're very civil, master George." And then Adela followed her friend down to the school.

But she could not rest while the matter stood in this way. She felt that she had been both
harsh and unjust to Bertram. She knew that the fault had been with Caroline; and yet she had
allowed herself to speak of it as though he, and he only, had been to blame. She felt, moreover,
an expressible tenderness for his sorrow. When he declared how cruel was his punishment, she
could willingly have given him the sympathy of her tears. For were not their cases in many
points the same?

She was determined to see him again before she went, and to tell him that she acquitted him;--that
she knew the greater fault was not with him. This in itself would not comfort him; but she
would endeavour so to put it that he might draw comfort from it.

"I must see you for a moment alone, before I go," she said to him that evening in the drawing-room.
"I go very early on Thursday morning. When can I speak to you? You are never up early, I know."

"But I will be to-morrow. Will you be afraid to come out with me before breakfast?"

"Oh no! she would not be at all afraid," she said: and so the appointment was made.

"I know you'll think me very foolish for giving this trouble," she began, in rather a confused
way, "and making so much about nothing."

"No man thinks there is much ado about nothing when the ado is about himself," said Bertram,
laughing.

"Well, but I know it is foolish. But I was unjust to you yesterday, and I could not leave you
without confessing it."

"How unjust, Adela?"

"I said you had cast Caroline off."

"Ah, no! I certainly did not do that."

"She wrote to me, and told me everything. She wrote very truly, I know; and she did not say
a word--not a word against you."

"Did she not? Well--no--I know she would not. And remember this, Adela: I do not say a word
against her. Do tell her, not from me, you know, but of your own observation, that I do not
say one word against her. I only say she did not love me."

"Ah! Mr. Bertram."

"That is all; and that is true. Adela, I have not much to give; but I would give it all--all--everything
to have her back--to have her back as I used to think her. But if I could have her now--as
I know her now--by raising this hand, I would not take her. But this imputes no blame to her.
She tried to love me, but she could not."

"Ah! she did love you."

"Never!" He almost shouted as he said this; and as he did so, he stood across his companion's
path. "Never! She never loved me. I know it now. What poor vile wretches we are! It is this
I think that most torments me."

And then they walked on. Adela had come there expressly to speak to him, but now she was almost
afraid to speak. Her heart had been full of what it would utter, but now all utterance seemed
to have left her. She had intended to console, but she did not dare to attempt it. There was
a depth, almost a sublimity about his grief which kept her silent.

"Oh! Adela," he said, "if you knew what it is to have an empty heart--or rather a heart not
empty--that would fain be empty that you might again refill it. Dear Adela!" And he put out
his hand to take her own. She hardly knew why, but she let him take her hand. "Dear Adela;
have you never sighed for the comfort of an empty heart? You probe my wounds to the bottom;
may I not search your own?"

She did not answer him. Was it possible that she should answer such a question? Her eyes became
suffused with tears, and she was unable to raise them from the ground. She could not recall
her hand--not at that moment. She had come there to lecture him, to talk to him, to comfort
him; and now she was unable to say a word. Did he know the secret of her heart; that secret
which once and but once had involuntarily broken from out her lips? Had Caroline told him?
Had she been so false to friendship--as false to friendship as she had been to love?

"Adela! Adela! I would that we had met earlier in our lives. Yes, you and I." These last words
he added after she had quickly rescued her hand from his grasp. Very quickly she withdrew it
now. As quickly she lifted up her face, all covered as it was with tears, and endured the full
weight of his gaze. What! was it possible that he knew how she had loved, and thought that
her love had been for him!

"Yes, you and I," he continued. "Even though your eyes flash upon me so sternly. You mean to
say that had it been ever so early, that prize would have been impossible for me. Speak out,
Adela. That is what you mean?"

"Yes; it would have been impossible; impossible every way; impossible, that is, on both sides."

"Then you have not that empty heart, Adela? What else should make it impossible?"

"Mr. Bertram, when I came here, I had no wish, no intention to talk about myself."

"Why not of yourself as well as of me? I say again, I would we had both met earlier. It might
have been that I should have been saved from this shipwreck. I will speak openly to you, Adela.
Why not?" he added, seeing that she shrunk from him, and seemed as though she would move on
quickly--away from his words.

"Mr. Bertram, do not say that which it will be useless for you to have said."

"It shall not be useless. You are my friend, and friends should understand each other. You
know how I have loved Caroline. You believe that I have loved her, do you not?"

"Oh, yes; I do believe that."

"Well, you may; that at any rate is true. I have loved her. She will now be that man's property,
and I must love her no longer."

"No; not with that sort of love."

"That sort! Are there two sorts on which a man may run the changes, as he may from one room
to another? I must wipe her out of my mind--out of my heart--or burn her out. I would not wish
to love anything that he possesses."

"No!" said she, "not his wife."

"Wife! she will never be his wife. She will never be bone of his bone, and flesh of his flesh,
as I would have made her. It will be but a partnership between them, to be dissolved when they
have made the most of their world's trading."

"If you love her, Mr. Bertram, do not be so bitter in speaking of her."

"Bitter! I tell you that I think her quite right in what she does. If a woman cannot love,
what better can she do than trade upon her beauty? But, there; let her go; I did not wish to
speak of her."

"I was very wrong in asking you to walk with me this morning."

"No, Adela, not wrong; but very, very right. There, well, I will not ask you for your hand
again, though it was but in friendship."

"In friendship I will give it you," and she stretched out her hand to him. It was ungloved,
and very white and fair; a prettier hand than even Caroline could boast.

"I must not take it. I must not lie to you, Adela. I am broken-hearted. I have loved; I have
loved that woman with all my heart, with my very soul, with the utmost strength of my whole
being--and now it has come to this. If I know what a broken heart means, I have it here. But
yet--yet--yet. Oh, Adela! I would fain try yet once again. I can do nothing for myself; nothing.
If the world were there at my feet, wealth, power, glory, to be had for the stooping, I would
not stoop to pick them, if I could not share them with--a friend. Adela, it is so sad to be alone!"

"Yes, it is sad. Is not sadness the lot of many of us?"

"Yes; but nature bids us seek a cure when a cure is possible."

"I do not know what you wish me to understand, Mr. Bertram?"

"Yes, Adela, you do; I think you do. I think I am honest and open. At any rate, I strive to
be so. I think you do understand me."

"If I do, then the cure which you seek is impossible."

"Ah!"

"Is impossible."

"You are not angry with me?"

"Angry; no, not angry."

"And do not be angry now, if I speak openly again. I thought--I thought. But I fear that I
shall pain you."

"I do not care for pain if any good can come of it."

"I thought that you also had been wounded. In the woods, the stricken harts lie down together
and lick each other's wounds while the herd roams far away from them."

"Is it so? Why do we hear then 'of the poor sequestered stag, left and abandoned of his velvet
friend?' No, Mr. Bertram, grief, I fear, must still be solitary."

"And so, unendurable."

"God still tempers the wind to the shorn lamb, now as he has ever done. But there is no sudden
cure for these evils. The time will come when all this will be remembered, not without sorrow,
but with a calm, quiet mourning that will be endurable; when your heart, now not broken as
you say, but tortured, will be able to receive other images. But that time cannot come at once.
Nor, I think, is it well that we should wish it. Those who have courage to love should have
courage to suffer."

"Yes, yes, yes. But if the courage be wanting? if one have it not? One cannot have such courage
for the asking."

"The first weight of the blow will stun the sufferer. I know that, Mr. Bertram. But that dull,
dead, deathly feeling will wear off at last. You have but to work; to read, to write, to study.
In that respect, you men are more fortunate than we are. You have that which must occupy your
thoughts."

"And you, Adela--?"

"Do not speak of me. If you are generous, you will not do so. If I have in any way seemed to
speak of myself, it is because you have made it unavoidable. What God has given me to bear
is bearable;--though I would that he could have spared my poor father." And, so saying, Adela
at last gave way to tears. On that subject she might be allowed to weep.

Bertram said nothing to disturb her till they were near the house, and then he again held out
his hand to her. "As a true friend; I hope as a dear friend. Is it not so?" said he.

"Yes," she answered, in her lowest voice, "as a dear friend. But remember that I expect a friend's
generosity and a friend's forbearance." And so she made her way back to her own room, and appeared
at breakfast in her usual sober guise, but with eyes that told no tales.

On the next morning she took her departure. The nearest station on the railway by which she
was to go to Littlebath was distant about twelve miles, and it was proposed that she should
be sent thither in Mrs. Wilkinson's phaëton. This, indeed, except the farm-yard cart, was the
only vehicle which belonged to the parsonage, and was a low four-wheeled carriage, not very
well contrived for the accommodation of two moderate-sized people in front, and of two immoderately-small
people on the hind seat. Mrs. Wilkinson habitually drove it herself, with one of her daughters
beside her, and with two others--those two whose legs had been found by measurement to be the
shortest--in durance vile behind; but when so packed, it was clear to all men that the capacity
of the phaëton was exhausted. Now the first arrangement proposed was, that Arthur should drive
the phaëton, and that Sophy should accompany Adela to the station. But Sophy, in so arranging,
had forgotten that her friend had a bag, a trunk, and a bonnet-box, the presence of which at
Littlebath would be indispensable; and, therefore, at the last moment, when the phaëton came
to the door with the luggage fastened on the hinder seat, it was discovered for the first time
that Sophy must be left behind.

Arthur Wilkinson would willingly have given up his position, and George Bertram would willingly
have taken it. Adela also would have been well pleased at such a change. But though all would
have been pleased, it could not be effected. The vicar could not very well proclaim that, as
his sister was not to accompany him and shield him, he would not act as charioteer to Miss
Gauntlet; nor could the lady object to be driven by her host. So at last they started from
the vicarage door with many farewell kisses, and a large paper of sandwiches. Who is it that
consumes the large packets of sandwiches with which parting guests are always laden? I imagine
that station-masters' dogs are mainly fed upon them.

The first half-mile was occupied, on Wilkinson's part, in little would-be efforts to make his
companion more comfortable. He shifted himself about into the furthest corner so as to give
her more room; he pulled his cloak out from under her, and put it over her knees to guard her
from the dust; and recommended her three times to put up her parasol. Then he had a word or
two to say to the neighbours; but that only lasted as long as he was in his own parish. Then
he came to a hill which gave him an opportunity of walking; and on getting in again he occupied
half a minute in taking out his watch, and assuring Adela that she would not be too late for
the train.

But when all this was done, the necessity for conversation still remained. They had hardly
been together--thrown for conversation on each other as they now were--since that day when
Arthur had walked over for the last time to West Putford. Reader, do you remember it? Hardly;
for have not all the fortunes and misfortunes of our more prominent hero intervened since that
chapter was before you?

"I hope you will find yourself comfortable at Littlebath," he said at last.

"Oh, yes; that is, I shall be when my aunt comes home. I shall be at home then, you know."

"But that will be some time?"

"I fear so; and I dread greatly going to this Miss Todd, whom I have never seen. But you see,
dear Miss Baker must go back to Hadley soon, and Miss Todd has certainly been very good-natured
in offering to take me."

Then there was another silence, which lasted for about half a mile.

"My mother would have been very glad if you would have stayed at the parsonage till your aunt's
return; and so would my sisters--and so should I."

"You are all very kind--too kind," said Adela.

Then came another pause, perhaps for a quarter of a mile, but it was up-hill work, and the
quarter of a mile passed by very slowly.

"It seems so odd that you should go away from us, whom you have known so long, to stay with
Miss Todd, whom you never have even seen."

"I think change of scene will be good for me, Mr. Wilkinson."

"Well, perhaps so." And then the other quarter of a mile made away with itself. "Come, get
along, Dumpling." This was said to the fat steed; for they had now risen to level ground.

"Our house, I know, must be very stupid for you. It is much changed from what it was; is it not?"

"Oh, I don't know."

"Yes, it is. There is neither the same spirit, nor the same good-will. We miss my father greatly."

"Ah, yes. I can feel for you there. It is a loss; a great loss."

"I sometimes think it unfortunate that my mother should have remained at the vicarage after
my father's death."

"You have been very good to her, I know."

"I have done my best, Adela." It was the first time she had distinctly heard him call her by
her Christian name since she had come to stay with them. "But I have failed. She is not happy
there; nor, indeed, for that matter, am I."

"A man should be happy when he does his duty."

"We none of us do that so thoroughly as to require no other source of happiness. Go on, Dumpling,
and do your duty."

"I see that you are very careful in doing yours."

"Perhaps you will hardly believe me, but I wish Lord Stapledean had never given me the living."

"Well; it is difficult to believe that. Think what it has been for your sisters."

"I know we should have been very poor, but we should not have starved. I had my fellowship,
and I could have taken pupils. I am sure we should have been happier. And then--"

"And then--well?" said Adela; and as she spoke, her heart was not quite at rest within her breast.

"Then I should have been free. Since I took that living, I have been a slave." Again he paused
a moment, and whipped the horse; but it was only now for a moment that he was silent. "Yes,
a slave. Do you not see what a life I live? I could be content to sacrifice myself to my mother
if the sacrifice were understood. But you see how it is with her. Nothing that I can do will
satisfy her; and yet for her I have sacrificed everything--everything."

"A sacrifice is no sacrifice if it be agreeable. The sacrifice consists in its being painful."

"Well, I suppose so. I say that to myself so often. It is the only consolation I have."

"Not that I think your home should be made uncomfortable to you. There is no reason why it
should be. At least, I should think not." She spoke with little spasmodic efforts, which, however,
did not betray themselves to her companion, who seemed to her to be almost more engaged with
Dumpling than with the conversation. It certainly had been through no wish of hers that they
were thus talking of his household concerns; but as they were speaking of them, she was forced
into a certain amount of hypocrisy. It was a subject on which she could not speak openly.

There was then another hill to be walked up, and Adela thought there would be no more of it.
The matter had come up by accident, and would now, probably, drop away. But no. Whether by
design, or from chance, or because no other topic presented itself, Arthur went back to the
subject, and did so now in a manner that was peculiarly startling to Miss Gauntlet.

"Do you remember my calling once at West Putford, soon after I got the living? It is a long
time ago now, and I don't suppose you do remember it."

"Yes, I do; very well."

"And do you remember what I told you then?"

"What was it?" said Adela. It clearly is the duty of a young lady on very many occasions to
be somewhat hypocritical.

"If there be any man to whose happiness marriage is more necessary than to that of another,
it is a country clergyman."

"Yes, I can believe that. That is, if there be not ladies of his own family living with him."

"I do not know that that makes any difference."

"Oh, yes; it must make a difference. I think that a man must be very wretched who has no one
to look after his house."

"And is that your idea of the excellence of a wife? I should have expected something higher
from you, Adela. I suppose you think, then, that if a man have his linen looked after, and
his dinner cooked, that is sufficient." Poor Adela! It must be acknowledged that this was hard
on her.

"No, I do not think that sufficient."

"It would seem so from what you say."

"Then what I said belied my thoughts. It seems to me, Mr. Wilkinson, since you drive me to
speak out, that the matter is very much in your own hands. You are certainly a free agent.
You know better than I can tell you what your duty to your mother and sisters requires. Circumstances
have made them dependent on you, and you certainly are not the man to disacknowledge the burden."

"Certainly not."

"No, certainly not. But, having made up my mind to that, I would not, were I you, allow myself
to be a slave."

"But what can I do?"

"You mean that you would be a poor man, were you--were you to give up your fellowship and at
the same time take upon yourself other cares as well. Do as other poor men do."

"I know no other man situated as I am."

"But you know men who are much worse situated as regards their worldly means. Were you to give
your mother the half of your income, you would still, I presume, be richer than Mr. Young."
Mr. Young was the curate of a neighbouring parish, who had lately married on his curacy.

It will be said by my critics, especially by my female critics, that in saying this, Adela
went a long way towards teaching Mr. Wilkinson the way to woo. Indeed, she brought that accusation
against herself, and not lightly. But she was, as she herself had expressed it, driven in the
cause of truth to say what she had said. Nor did she, in her heart of hearts, believe that
Mr. Wilkinson had any thought of her in saying what she did say. Her mind on that matter had
been long made up. She knew herself to be "the poor sequestered stag, left and abandoned by
his velvet friend." She had no feeling in the matter which amounted to the slightest hope.
He had asked her for her counsel, and she had given him the only counsel which she honestly
could give.

Therefore, bear lightly on her, oh my critics! Bear lightly on her especially, my critics feminine.
To the worst of your wrath and scorn I willingly subject the other lovers with whom my tale
is burthened.

"Yes, I should be better off than Young," said Wilkinson, as though he were speaking to himself.
"But that is not the point. I do not know that I have ever looked at it exactly in that light.
There is the house, the parsonage I mean. It is full of women"--'twas thus irreverently that
he spoke of his mother and sisters--"what other woman would come among them?"

"Oh, that is the treasure for which you have to search"--this she said laughingly. The bitterness
of the day was over with her; or at least it then seemed so. She was not even thinking of herself
when she said this.

"Would you come to such a house, Adela? You, you yourself?"

"You mean to ask whether, if, as regards other circumstances, I was minded to marry, I would
then be deterred by a mother-in-law and sister-in-law?"

"Yes, just so," said Wilkinson, timidly.

"Well, that would depend much upon how well I might like the gentleman; something also upon
how much I might like the ladies."

"A man's wife should always be mistress in his own house."

"Oh yes, of course."

"And my mother is determined to be mistress in that house."

"Well, I will not recommend you to rebel against your mother. Is that the station, Mr. Wilkinson?"

"Yes--that's the station. Dear me, we have forty minutes to wait yet!"

"Don't mind me, Mr. Wilkinson. I shall not in the least dislike waiting by myself."

"Of course, I shall see you off. Dumpling won't run away; you may be sure of that. There is
very little of the runaway class to be found at Hurst Staple Parsonage; except you, Adela."

"You don't call me a runaway, I hope?"

"You run away from us just when we are beginning to feel the comfort of your being with us.
There, he won't catch cold now;" and so having thrown a rug over Dumpling's back, he followed
Adela into the station.

I don't know anything so tedious as waiting at a second-class station for a train. There is
the ladies' waiting-room, into which gentlemen may not go, and the gentlemen's waiting-room,
in which the porters generally smoke, and the refreshment room, with its dirty counter covered
with dirtier cakes. And there is the platform, which you walk up and down till you are tired.
You go to the ticket-window half a dozen times for your ticket, having been warned by the company's
bills that you must be prepared to start at least ten minutes before the train is due. But
the man inside knows better, and does not open the little hole to which you have to stoop your
head till two minutes before the time named for your departure. Then there are five fat farmers,
three old women, and a butcher at the aperture, and not finding yourself equal to struggling
among them for a place, you make up your mind to be left behind. At last, however, you do get
your ticket just as the train comes up; but hearing that exciting sound, you nervously cram
your change into your pocket without counting it, and afterwards feel quite convinced that
you have lost a shilling in the transaction.

'Twas somewhat in this way that the forty minutes were passed by Wilkinson and Adela. Nothing
of any moment was spoken between them till he took her hand for the last time. "Adela," he
then whispered to her, "I shall think much of what you have said to me, very much. I do so
wish you were not leaving us. I wonder whether you would be surprised if I were to write to
you?" But the train was gone before she had time to answer.

Two days afterwards, Bertram also left them. "Arthur," he said, as he took leave of the vicar,
"if I, who have made such a mess of it myself, may give advice on such a subject, I would not
leave Adela Gauntlet long at Littlebath if I were you."

CHAPTER XIII.

THE SOLICITOR-GENERAL IN LOVE.

Caroline Waddington was at Hadley when she received and accepted the proposal made to her by
Sir Henry Harcourt. It may be conceived that the affair was arranged without any very great
amount of romance. Sir Henry indeed was willing, in a hurried manner, to throw himself at the
lady's feet, to swear by her fair hand that he loved her as man never yet had loved, and to
go to work in the fashion usually most approved by young ladies. In a hurried manner, I say;
for just at this moment he was being made solicitor-general, and had almost too many irons
in the fire to permit of a prolonged dallying. But Caroline would have none of it, either hurried
or not hurried. Whatever might be the case with Sir Henry, she had gone through that phase
of life, and now declared to herself that she did not want any more of it.

Sir Henry did not find the task of gaining his bride very difficult. He had succeeded in establishing
a sort of intimacy with old Mr. Bertram, and it appeared that permission to run down to Hadley
and run back again had already been accorded to him before Miss Baker and Caroline arrived
there. He never slept, though he sometimes dined in the house; but he had always something
to talk about when an excuse for going to Hadley was required. Mr. Bertram had asked him something
about some investment, and he had found out this something; or he wanted to ask Mr. Bertram's
advice on some question as to his political career. At this period he was, or professed to
be, very much guided in his public life by Mr. Bertram's opinion.

And thus he fell in with Caroline. On the first occasion of his doing so, he contrived to whisper
to her his deep sympathy with her sorrow; on his second visit, he spoke more of himself and
less of Bertram; on his third, he alluded only to her own virtues; on his fourth, he asked
her to be Lady Harcourt. She told him that she would be Lady Harcourt; and, as far as she was
concerned, there was an end of it for the present.

Then Sir Henry proposed that the day should be named. On this subject also he found her ready
to accommodate him. She had no coy scruples as to the time. He suggested that it should be
before Christmas. Very well; let it be before Christmas. Christmas is a cold time for marrying;
but this was to be a cold marriage. Christmas, however, for the fortunate is made warm with
pudding, ale, and spiced beef. They intended to be among the fortunate, the fortunate in place,
and money, and rank; and they would, as best they might, make themselves warm with the best
pudding, ale, and spiced beef which the world could afford them.

Sir Henry was alive to the delight of being the possessor of so many charms, and was somewhat
chagrined that for the present he was so cruelly debarred from any part of his legitimate enjoyment.
Though he was a solicitor-general, he could have been content to sit for ten minutes with his
arm round Caroline's waist; and--in spite of the energy with which he was preparing a bill
for the regulation of County Courts, as to which he knew that he should have that terrible
demi-god, Lord Boanerges, down upon his shoulders--still he would fain have stolen a kiss or
two. But Caroline's waist and Caroline's kisses were to be his only after Christmas; and to
be his only as payment accorded for her new rank, and for her fine new house in Eaton Square.

How is it that girls are so potent to refuse such favours at one time, and so impotent in preventing
their exaction at another? Sir Henry, we may say, had every right to demand some trifling payment
in advance; but he could not get a doit. Should we be violating secrecy too much if we suggested
that George Bertram had had some slight partial success even when he had no such positive claim--some
success which had of course been in direct opposition to the lady's will?

Miss Baker had now gone back to Littlebath, either to receive Adela Gauntlet, or because she
knew that she should be more comfortable in her own rooms than in her uncle's dismal house--or
perhaps because Sir Lionel was there. She had, however, gone back, and Caroline remained mistress
for the time of her grandfather's household.

The old man now seemed to have dropped all mystery in the matter. He generally, indeed, spoke
of Caroline as Miss Waddington; but he heard her talked of as his granddaughter without expressing
anger, and with Sir Henry he himself so spoke of her. He appeared to be quite reconciled to
the marriage. In spite of all his entreaties to George, all his attempted bribery, his broken-hearted
sorrow when he failed, he seemed to be now content. Indeed, he had made no opposition to the
match. When Caroline had freely spoken to him about it, he made some little snappish remark
as to the fickleness of women; but he at the same time signified that he would not object.

Why should he? Sir Henry Harcourt was in every respect a good match for his granddaughter.
He had often been angry with George Bertram because George had not prospered in the world.
Sir Henry had prospered signally--would probably prosper much more signally. Might it not be
safely predicated of a man who was solicitor-general before he was thirty, that he would be
lord-chancellor or lord chief-justice, or at any rate some very bigwig indeed before he was
fifty? So of course Mr. Bertram did not object.

But he had not signified his acquiescence in any very cordial way. Rich old men, when they
wish to be cordial on such occasions, have but one way of evincing cordiality. It is not by
a pressure of the hand, by a kind word, by an approving glance. Their embrace conveys no satisfaction;
their warmest words, if unsupported, are very cold. An old man, if he intends to be cordial
on such an occasion, must speak of thousands of pounds. "My dear young fellow, I approve altogether.
She shall have twenty thousand pounds the day she becomes yours." Then is the hand shaken with
true fervour; then is real cordiality expressed and felt. "What a dear old man grandpapa is!
Is there any one like him? Dear old duck! He is going to be so generous to Harry."

But Mr. Bertram said nothing about twenty thousand pounds, nothing about ten, nothing about
money at all till he was spoken to on the subject. It was Sir Henry's special object not to
be pressing on this point, to show that he was marrying Caroline without any sordid views,
and that his admiration for Mr. Bertram had no bearing at all on that gentleman's cash-box.
He did certainly make little feints at Mr. Pritchett; but Mr. Pritchett merely wheezed and
said nothing. Mr. Pritchett was not fond of the Harcourt interest; and seemed to care but little
for Miss Caroline, now that she had transferred her affections.

But it was essentially necessary that Sir Henry Harcourt should know what was to be done. If
he were to have nothing, it was necessary that he should know that. He had certainly counted
on having something, and on having something immediately. He was a thoroughly hard-working
man of business, but yet he was not an economical man. A man who lives before the world in
London, and lives chiefly among men of fortune, can hardly be economical. He had not therefore
any large sum of money in hand. He was certainly in receipt of a large income, but then his
expenses were large. He had taken and now had to furnish an expensive house in Eaton Square,
and a few thousand pounds in ready money were almost indispensable to him.

One Friday--this was after his return to town from the ten days' grouse-shooting, and occurred
at the time when he was most busy with the County Courts--he wrote to Caroline to say that
he would go down to Hadley on Saturday afternoon, stay there over the Sunday, and return to
town on the Monday morning; that is to say, he would do so if perfectly agreeable to Mr. Bertram.

He went down, and found everything prepared for him that was suitable for a solicitor-general.
They did not put before him merely roast mutton or boiled beef. He was not put to sleep in
the back bedroom without a carpet. Such treatment had been good enough for George Bertram;
but for the solicitor-general all the glories of Hadley were put forth. He slept in the best
bedroom, which was damp enough no doubt, seeing that it was not used above twice in the year;
and went through at dinner a whole course of entrées, such as entrées usually are in the suburban
districts. This was naturally gratifying to him as a solicitor-general, and fortified him for
the struggle he was to make.

He had some hope that he should have a tête-à-tête with Caroline on the Saturday evening. But
neither fate nor love would favour him. He came down just before dinner, and there was clearly
no time then: infirm as the old man was, he sat at the dinner-table; and though Sir Henry was
solicitor-general, there was no second room, no withdrawing-room prepared for his reception.

"Grandpapa does not like moving," said Caroline, as she got up to leave the room after dinner;
"so perhaps, Sir Henry, you will allow me to come down to tea here? We always sit here of an
evening."

"I never could bear to live in two rooms," said the old man. "When one is just warm and comfortable,
one has to go out into all the draughts of the house. That's the fashion, I know. But I hope
you'll excuse me, Sir Henry, for not liking it."

Sir Henry of course did excuse him. There was nothing he himself liked so much as sitting cosy
over a dining-room fire.

In about an hour Caroline did come down again; and in another hour, before the old man went,
she again vanished for the night. Sir Henry had made up his mind not to speak to Mr. Bertram
about money that evening; so he also soon followed Caroline, and sat down to work upon the
County Courts in his own bedroom.

On the next morning Sir Henry and Caroline went to church. All the Hadleyians of course knew
of the engagement, and were delighted to have an opportunity of staring at the two turtle-doves.
A solicitor-general in love is a sight to behold; and the clergyman had certainly no right
to be angry if the attention paid to his sermon was something less fixed than usual. Before
dinner, there was luncheon; and then Sir Henry asked his betrothed if she would take a walk
with him. "Oh, certainly, she would be delighted." Her church-going bonnet was still on, and
she was quite ready. Sir Henry also was ready; but as he left the room he stooped over Mr.
Bertram's chair and whispered to him, "Could I speak to you a few words before dinner, sir;
on business? I know I ought to apologize, this being Sunday."

"Oh, I don't care about Sunday," said the stubborn-minded old man. "I shall be here till I
go to bed, I suppose, if you want me."

And then they started on their walk. Oh, those lovers' rambles! A man as he grows old can perhaps
teach himself to regret but few of the sweets which he is compelled to leave behind him. He
can learn to disregard most of his youth's pleasures, and to live contented though he has outlived
them. The polka and the waltz were once joyous; but he sees now that the work was warm, and
that one was often compelled to perform it in company for which one did not care. Those picnics
too were nice; but it may be a question whether a good dinner at his own dinner-table is not
nicer. Though fat and over forty he may still ride to hounds, and as for boating and cricketing,
after all they were but boy's play. For those things one's soul does not sigh. But, ah! those
lovers' walks, those loving lovers' rambles. Tom Moore is usually somewhat sugary and mawkish;
but in so much he was right. If there be an Elysium on earth, it is this. They are done and
over for us, oh, my compatriots! Never again, unless we are destined to rejoin our houris in
heaven, and to saunter over fields of asphodel in another and a greener youth--never again
shall those joys be ours! And what can ever equal them? 'Twas then, between sweet hedgerows,
under green oaks, with our feet rustling on the crisp leaves, that the world's cold reserve
was first thrown off, and we found that those we loved were not goddesses made of buckram and
brocade, but human beings like ourselves, with blood in their veins, and hearts in their bosoms--veritable
children of Adam like ourselves.

"Gin a body meet a body comin' through the rye." Ah, how delicious were those meetings! How
convinced we were that there was no necessity for loud alarm! How fervently we agreed with
the poet! My friends, born together with me in the consulship of Lord Liverpool, all that is
done and over for us. We shall never gang that gait' again.

There is a melancholy in this that will tinge our thoughts, let us draw ever so strongly on
our philosophy. We can still walk with our wives;--and that is pleasant too, very--of course.
But there was more animation in it when we walked with the same ladies under other names. Nay,
sweet spouse, mother of dear bairns, who hast so well done thy duty; but this was so, let thy
brows be knit never so angrily. That lord of thine has been indifferently good to thee, and
thou to him has been more than good. Up-hill together have ye walked peaceably labouring; and
now arm-in-arm ye shall go down the gradual slope which ends below there in the green churchyard.
'Tis good and salutary to walk thus. But for the full cup of joy, for the brimming spring-tide
of human bliss, oh, give me back, give me back-- -- --! Well, well, well; it is nonsense; I
know it; but may not a man dream now and again in his evening nap and yet do no harm?

Vici puellis nuper idoneus, et militavi. How well Horace knew all about it! But that hanging
up of the gittern--. One would fain have put it off, had falling hairs, and marriage-vows,
and obesity have permitted it. Nay, is it not so, old friend of the grizzled beard? Dost thou
not envy that smirk young knave with his five lustrums, though it goes hard with him to purchase
his kid-gloves? He dines for one-and-twopence at an eating-house; but what cares Maria where
he dines? He rambles through the rye with his empty pockets, and at the turn of the field-path
Maria will be there to meet him. Envy him not; thou hast had thy walk; but lend him rather
that thirty shillings that he asks of thee. So shall Maria's heart be glad as she accepts his
golden brooch.

But for our friend Sir Henry every joy was present. Youth and wealth and love were all his,
and his all together. He was but eight-and-twenty, was a member of Parliament, solicitor-general,
owner of a house in Eaton Square, and possessor of as much well-trained beauty as was to be
found at that time within the magic circle of any circumambient crinoline within the bills
of mortality. Was it not sweet for him to wander through the rye? Had he not fallen upon an
Elysium, a very paradise of earthly joys? Was not his spring-tide at the full flood?

And so they started on their walk. It was the first that they had ever taken together. What
Sir Henry may have done before in that line this history says not. A man who is solicitor-general
at eight-and-twenty can hardly have had time for much. But the practice which he perhaps wanted,
Caroline had had. There had been walks as well as rides at Littlebath; and walks also, though
perhaps of doubtful joy, amidst those graves below the walls of Jerusalem.

And so they started. There is--or perhaps we should say was; for time and railways, and straggling
new suburban villas, may now have destroyed it all; but there is, or was, a pretty woodland
lane, running from the back of Hadley church, through the last remnants of what once was Enfield
Chase. How many lovers' feet have crushed the leaves that used to lie in autumn along that
pretty lane! Well, well; there shall not be another word in that strain. I speak solely now
of the time here present to Sir Henry; all former days and former roamings there shall be clean
forgotten. The solicitor-general now thither wends his way, and love and beauty attend upon
his feet. See how he opens the gate that stands by the churchyard paling? Does it stand there
yet, I wonder? Well, well; we will say it does.

"It is a beautiful day for a walk," said Sir Henry.

"Yes, very beautiful," said Caroline.

"There is nothing I am so fond of as a long walk," said the gentleman.

"It is very nice," said the lady. "But I do not know that I care for going very far to-day.
I am not quite strong at present."

"Not strong?" And the solicitor-general put on a look of deep alarm.

"Oh, there is nothing the matter with me; but I am not quite strong for walking. I am out of
practice; and my boots are not quite of the right sort."

"They don't hurt you, I hope."

"Oh, no; they don't actually hurt me. They'll do very well for to-day." And then there was
a short pause, and they got on the green grass which runs away into the chase in front of the
parsonage windows. I wonder whether wickets are ever standing there now on the summer afternoons!

They were soon as much alone--or nearly so--as lovers might wish to be; quite enough so for
Caroline. Some curious eyes were still peeping, no doubt, to see how the great lawyer looked
when he was walking with the girl of his heart; to see how the rich miser's granddaughter looked
when she was walking with the man of her heart. And perhaps some voices were whispering that
she had changed her lover; for in these rural seclusions everything is known by everybody.
But neither the peepers nor the whisperers interfered with the contentment of the fortunate pair.

"I hope you are happy, Caroline?" said Sir Henry, as he gently squeezed the hand that was so
gently laid upon his arm.

"Happy! oh yes--I am happy. I don't believe you know in a great deal of very ecstatic happiness.
I never did."

"But I hope you are rationally happy--not discontented--at any rate, not regretful? I hope
you believe that I shall do my best, my very best, to make you happy?"

"Oh, yes; I quite believe that. We must each think of the other's comfort. After all, that
I take it is the great thing in married life."

"I don't expect you to be passionately in love with me--not as yet, Caroline."

"No. Let neither of us expect that, Sir Henry. Passionate love, I take it, rarely lasts long,
and is very troublesome while it does last. Mutual esteem is very much more valuable."

"But, Caroline, I would have you believe in my love."

"Oh, yes; I do believe in it. Why else should you wish to marry me? I think too well of myself
to feel it strange that you should love me. But love with you, and with me also for the future,
will be subordinate to other passions."

Sir Henry did not altogether like that reference to the past which was conveyed in the word
future; but, however, he bore it without wincing.

"You know so thoroughly the history of the last three years," she continued, "that it would
be impossible for me to deceive you if I could. But, if I know myself, under no circumstances
would I have done so. I have loved once, and no good has come of it. It was contrary to my
nature to do so--to love in that mad passionate self-sacrificing manner. But yet I did. I think
I may say with certainty that I never shall be so foolish again."

"You have suffered lately, Caroline; and as the sore still smarts, you hardly yet know what
happiness may be in store for you."

"Yes; I have suffered," and he felt from the touch on his arm that her whole body shuddered.

He walked on in silence for awhile considering within himself. Why should he marry this girl,
rejected of her former lover, who now hung upon his arm? He was now at the very fullest tide
of his prosperity; he had everything to offer which mothers wish for their daughters, and which
daughters wish for themselves. He had income, rank, name, youth, and talent. Why should he
fling his rich treasures at the feet of a proud minx who in taking them swore that she could
not love him? Would it not be better for him to recede? A word he well knew would do it; for
her pride was true pride. He felt in his heart that it was not assumed. He had only to say
that he was not contented with this cold lack of love, and she would simply desire him to lead
her back to her home and leave her there. It would be easy enough for him to get his head from
out the noose.

But it was this very easiness, perhaps, which made him hesitate. She knew her own price, and
was not at all anxious to dispose of herself a cheap bargain. If you, sir, have a horse to
sell, never appear anxious for the sale. That rule is well understood among those who deal
in horses. If you, madam, have a daughter to sell, it will be well for you also to remember
this. Or, my young friend, if you have yourself to sell, the same rule holds good. But it is
hard to put an old head on young shoulders. Hard as the task is, however, it would seem to
have been effected as regards Caroline Waddington.

And then Sir Henry looked at her. Not exactly with his present eyesight as then at that moment
existing; for seeing that she was walking by his side, he could not take the comprehensive
view which his taste and mind required. But he looked at her searchingly with the eyesight
of his memory, and found that she exactly tallied with what his judgment demanded. That she
was very beautiful, no man had ever doubted. That she was now in the full pride of her beauty
was to him certain. And then her beauty was of that goddess class which seems for so long a
period to set years at defiance. It was produced by no girlish softness, by no perishable mixture
of white and red; it was not born of a sparkling eye, and a ripe lip, and a cherry cheek. To
her face belonged lines of contour, severe, lovely, and of ineradicable grace. It was not when
she smiled and laughed that she most pleased. She did not charm only when she spoke; though,
indeed, the expression of her speaking face was perfect. But she had the beauty of a marble
bust. It would not be easy even for Sir Henry Harcourt, even for a young solicitor-general,
to find a face more beautiful with which to adorn his drawing-room.

And then she had that air of fashion, that look of being able to look down the unfashionable,
which was so much in the eyes of Sir Henry; though in those of George Bertram it had been almost
a demerit. With Caroline, as with many women, this was an appearance rather than a reality.
She had not moved much among high people; she had not taught herself to despise those of her
own class, the women of Littlebath, the Todds and the Adela Gauntlets; but she looked as though
she would be able to do so. And it was fitting she should have such a look if ever she were
to be the wife of a solicitor-general.

And then Sir Henry thought of Mr. Bertram's coffers. Ah! if he could only be let into that
secret, it might be easy to come to a decision. That the old man had quarrelled with his nephew,
he was well aware. That George, in his pig-headed folly, would make no overtures towards a
reconciliation; of that also he was sure. Was it not probable that at any rate a great portion
of that almost fabulous wealth would go to the man's granddaughter? There was doubtless risk;
but then one must run some risk in everything, It might be, if he could play his cards wisely,
that he would get it all--that he would be placed in a position to make even the solicitor-generalship
beneath his notice.

And so, in spite of Caroline's coldness, he resolved to persevere.

Having thus made up him mind, he turned the conversation to another subject.

"You liked the house on the whole; did you?" Caroline during the past week had been up to see
the new house in Eaton Square.

"Oh, yes; very much. Nothing could be nicer. Only I am afraid it's expensive." This was a subject
on which Caroline could talk to him.

"Not particularly," said Sir Henry. "Of course one can't get a house in London for nothing.
I shall have rather a bargain of that if I can pay the money down. The great thing is whether
you like it."

"I was charmed with it. I never saw prettier drawing-rooms--never. And the bedrooms for a London
house are so large and airy."

"Did you go into the dining-room?"

"Oh, yes; I went in."

"There's room for four-and-twenty, is there not?"

"Well, I don't know. I can't give an opinion about that. You could have three times that number
at supper."

"I'm not thinking of suppers; but I'm sure you could. Kitchen's convenient, eh?"

"Very--so at least aunt Mary said."

"And now about the furniture. You can give me two or three days in town, can't you?"

"Oh, yes; if you require it. But I would trust your taste in all those matters."

"My taste! I have neither taste nor time. If you won't mind going to ----"

And so the conversation went on for another fifteen minutes, and then they were at home. Caroline's
boots had begun to tease her, and their walk, therefore, had not been prolonged to a great
distance.

Ah, me! again I say how pleasant, how delightful were those lovers' walks!

Then Caroline went up to her bedroom, and Sir Henry sat himself down near Mr. Bertram's chair
in the dining-room.

"I wanted to speak to you, sir," said he, rushing at once into the midst of his subject, "about
Caroline's settlement. It is time that all that should be arranged. I would have made my lawyer
see Pritchett; but I don't know that Pritchett has any authority to act for you in such matters."

"Act for me! Pritchett has no authority to act--nor have I either." This little renunciation
of his granddaughter's affairs was no more than Sir Henry expected. He was, therefore, neither
surprised nor disgusted.

"Well! I only want to know who has the authority. I don't anticipate any great difficulty.
Caroline's fortune is not very large; but of course it must be settled. Six thousand pounds,
I believe."

"Four, Sir Henry. That is, if I am rightly informed."

"Four, is it? I was told six--I think by George Bertram in former days. I should of course
prefer six; but if it be only four, why we must make the best of it."

"She has only four of her own," said the old man, somewhat mollified.

"Have you any objection to my telling you what I would propose to do?"

"No objection in life, Sir Henry."

"My income is large; but I want a little ready money at present to conclude the purchase of
my house, and to furnish it. Would you object to the four thousand pounds being paid into my
hands, if I insure my life for six for her benefit? Were her fortune larger, I should of course
propose that my insurance should be heavier."

Sir Henry was so very reasonable that Mr. Bertram by degrees thawed. He would make his granddaughter's
fortune, six thousand as he had always intended. This should be settled on her, the income
of course going to her husband. He should insure his life for four thousand more on her behalf;
and Mr. Bertram would lend Sir Henry three thousand for his furniture.

Sir Henry agreed to this, saying to himself that such a loan from Mr. Bertram was equal to
a gift. Mr. Bertram himself seemed to look at it in a different light. "Mind, Sir Henry, I
shall expect the interest to the day. I will only charge you four per cent. And it must be
made a bond debt."

"Oh, certainly," said Sir Henry.

And so the affair of the settlement was arranged.

CHAPTER XIV.

MRS. LEAKE OF RISSBURY.

Adela Gauntlet reached Littlebath without any adventures, and at the station she met Miss Baker
ready to take her and her boxes in charge. She soon learned what was to be her fate for that
autumn. It was imperatively necessary that Miss Baker should go up to town in a week or two.
"There are such hundreds of things to be done about furniture and all that, you know," said
Miss Baker, looking rather grand as she spoke of her niece's great match; and yet doing so
with the least possible amount of intentional pride or vanity. Adela, of course, acknowledged
that there must be hundreds of things, and expressed her deepest regret that she should be
so much in the way. Perhaps she almost wished that she had remained at Hurst Staple.

"Not at all in the way, my dear," said Miss Baker; "I shall be back again in a week at the
furthest, and Miss Todd will be delighted to have you for that time. Indeed, she would be very
much disappointed now, and offended too if you did not go. But all the same, I would not leave
you, only that Sir Henry insists that Caroline should choose all the things herself; and of
course he has not time to go with her--and then the responsibility is so great. Why, I suppose
she will have to lay out about two thousand pounds!"

"But what sort of a person is Miss Todd?" asked Adela.

"Oh, an extremely nice person; you'll like her amazingly--so lively, so good-natured, so generous;
and very clever too. Perhaps, for her age, she's a little too fond--"

"Too fond of what? You were going to say dress, I suppose."

"No, indeed. I can't say that there's anything to blame her for in that. She dresses very handsomely,
but always plain. No; what I was going to say is, that perhaps for a woman of her age--she
is a little too fond of gentlemen's attention."

"Caroline told me that she was the most confirmed old maid she knew--an old maid who gloried
in being an old maid."

"I don't know about that, my dear; but if a certain gentleman were to ask her, I don't think
she'd glory in it much longer. But she's a very nice person, and you'll like her very much."

Miss Baker did go up to town, leaving Adela to Miss Todd's hospitality. She did go up, but
in doing so resolved to return as soon as possible. Sir Lionel was now in the Paragon nearly
every other day. To be sure, he did generally call in Montpellier Terrace on the alternate
days. But then there was a reason for that. They had to talk about George and Caroline. What
possible reason could there be for his going to the Paragon?

Adela was rather frightened when she found herself left at Miss Todd's lodgings; though that
lady's manner to her was not such as need have inspired much awe.

"Now, my dear," she said, "don't mind me in the least. Do just whatever you like. If I only
knew what you did like, you should have it if I could get it. What are you fond of now? Shall
I ask some young people here to-night?"

"Oh, no, Miss Todd; not for me. I have never been much in society, and certainly do not wish
for it at present."

"Well, society is not a bad thing. You don't play cards, I suppose?"

"I don't know one card from another."

"You'd just suit Mr. O'Callaghan then. Are you fond of young clergymen? There's one here might
just suit you. All the young ladies are dying for him."

"Then pray don't let me interfere with them, Miss Todd."

"Perhaps you like officers better. There are heaps of them here. I don't know where they come
from, and they never seem to have anything to do. The young ladies, however--those who don't
run after Mr. O'Callaghan--seem to think them very nice."

"Oh, Miss Todd, I don't want clergymen or officers."

"Don't you? Well then, we'll get some novels from the circulating library. At three o'clock
I always drive out, and we'll go to the pastrycook's. Oh, I declare, here's Sir Lionel Bertram,
as usual. You know Sir Lionel, don't you?"

Adela said that she had met Sir Lionel at Miss Baker's.

"What a pity that match should have gone off, isn't it? I mean dear Miss Waddington. But though
that match is off, another may come on. I for one should be very happy. You don't know anything
about it, I see. I'll tell you some of these days. How do, Sir Lionel? You mustn't stay long,
because Miss Gauntlet and I am going out. Or I'll tell you what. You shall take care of us.
It's a beautiful day; and if Miss Gauntlet likes, we'll walk instead of having the fly." Miss
Todd never aped grandeur, and always called her private carriage a fly, because it had only
one horse.

Sir Lionel, having made his salutations to Miss Gauntlet, declared that he should be most happy
to be trusted with their custody through the streets of Littlebath.

"But we can't walk either, Miss Gauntlet, to-day, because I must call on old Mrs. Leake, at
Rissbury. I quite forgot Mrs. Leake. So you see, Sir Lionel, we shan't want you after all."

Sir Lionel declared that this last decision made him quite miserable.

"You'll be recovered by dinner-time, I don't doubt," said Miss Todd. "And now I'll go upstairs
and put my bonnet on. As Miss Gauntlet has got hers, you can stay and talk to her."

"Charming creature, Miss Todd; isn't she?" said Sir Lionel, before the door was well closed.
"Such freshness of character, so much bonhommie--a little odd sometimes." These last words
were not added till Miss Todd's footsteps, heavier than Camilla's, were heard well up the stairs.

"She seems to be a very good-natured person. I never saw her before to-day."

"Did you not? We knew her very intimately in the Holy Land"--as if any land ever was or could
be holy to Sir Lionel and such as he. "That is, George and I, and Caroline. Of course, you
know all about that Miss Waddington."

Adela signified to him that she did know the circumstances to which he alluded.

"It is very sad, is it not? and then the connection between them being so near; and their being
the joint-heirs to such an enormous property! I know the people here take Caroline's part,
and say that she has been hardly used. But I cannot say that I blame George; I cannot, indeed."

"It is one of those cases in which no one should be blamed."

"Exactly--that is just what I say. My advice to George was this. Don't let money influence
your conduct in any way. Thank God, there's enough of that for all of us! What you have to
think of, is her happiness and your own. That's what I said; and I do believe he took my advice.
I don't think he had any sordid views with reference to Caroline's fortune."

"I am sure he had not."

"Oh, no, never. What Sir Henry's views may be, I don't pretend to know. People here do say
that he has been ingratiating himself with my brother for some time past. He has my leave,
Miss Gauntlet. I am an old man, old enough to be your father"--the well-preserved old beau
might have said grandfather--"and my experience of life is this, that money is never worth
the trouble that men take to get it. They say my brother is fond of it; if so, I think he has
made a mistake in life--a great mistake."

All this sounded very nice, but even to Adela's inexperienced ears it was not like the ring
of genuine silver. After all, mock virtue imposes on but few people. The man of the world is
personally known for such; as also are known the cruel, the griping, the avaricious, the unjust.
That which enables the avaricious and the unjust to pass scatheless through the world is not
the ignorance of the world as to their sins, but the indifference of the world whether they
be sinful or no.

"And now, Sir Lionel, you may just put us into the fly, and then we won't keep you any longer,"
said Miss Todd, as she re-entered the room with her bonnet and shawl.

Mrs. Leake, who lived at Rissbury, was a deaf old lady, not very popular among other old ladies
at Littlebath. All the world, of course, knows that the village of Rissbury is hardly more
than a suburb of Littlebath, being distant from the High Street not above a mile and a half.
It will be remembered that the second milestone on Hinchcombe Road is altogether beyond the
village, just as you begin to ascend the hill near the turnpike.

Mrs. Leake was not very popular, seeing that though her ear was excessively dull, her tongue
was peculiarly acute. She had the repute of saying the most biting things of any lady in Littlebath--and
many of the ladies of Littlebath were apt to say biting things. Then Mrs. Leake did not play
cards, nor did she give suppers, nor add much in any way to the happiness of the other ladies,
her compatriots. But she lived in rather a grand house of her own, whereas others lived in
lodgings; she kept a carriage with a pair of horses, whereas others kept flies; and she had
some mysterious acquaintance with the countyocracy which went a long way with the ladies of
Littlebath; though what good it even did to Mrs. Leake herself was never very apparent.

It is a terrible bore to have to talk to people who use speaking-trumpets, and who are so fidgety
themselves that they won't use their speaking-trumpets properly. Miss Todd greatly dreaded
the speaking-trumpet; she did not usually care one straw for Mrs. Leake's tongue, nor much
for her carriage and horses, or county standing; but the Littlebath world called on Mrs. Leake;
and Miss Todd being at Rome did as Romans do.

"I'll take her for five minutes," said Miss Todd, as, driving through the village of Rissbury,
she finished her description of the lady; "and then do you take her up for five more; and then
I'll go on again; and then we'll go away." Adela agreed, though with a heavy heart; for what
subject of conversation could she find on which to dilate to Mrs. Leake through a speaking-trumpet
for five minutes?

"Miss who?" said Mrs. Leake, putting her trumpet down from her ear that she might stare the
better at Adela. "Oh, Miss Gaunt--very well--I hope you'll like Littlebath, Miss Gaunt."

"Miss Gaunt-let!" shouted Miss Todd, with a voice that would have broken the trumpet into shivers
had it not been made of the very best metal.

"Never hollo, my dear. When you do that I can't hear at all. It only makes a noise like a dog
barking. You'll find the young men about Littlebath very good-natured, Miss Gaunt. They are
rather empty-headed--but I think young ladies generally like them all the better for that."

Adela felt herself called on to make no answer to this, as it was not her turn at the trumpet.

"What news have you heard lately, Mrs. Leake?" asked Miss Todd. The great thing was to make
Mrs. Leake talk instead of having to talk to her.

"Amuse! No, I don't think they do amuse any one very much. But then that's not their line.
I suppose they can dance, most of them; and those who've got any money may do for husbands--as
the world goes. We musn't be too particular; must we, Miss Gaunt?"

"Miss Gaunt--let," whispered Miss Todd into the trumpet, separating the sounds well, so that
they should not clash on the unsusceptible tympanum of her friend's ear.

"Let, let, let! I think I can hear anybody almost better than I can you, Miss Todd. I don't
know how it is, but I never can hear the people out of the town as well as I can my own set.
It's habit I take it."

"They're used to deaf people in the country, I suppose," said Miss Todd, who, with all her
good nature, didn't choose to be over much put upon.

"Ah, I can't hear you," said Mrs. Leake. She had, however, heard this. "But I want you to tell
me something about this Caroline Waddington. Isn't it true she's got another lover already?"

"Oh, quite true; she's going to be married."

"Wants to be married. Yes, I don't doubt she wants to be married. That's what they all want,
only some are not able to manage it. Ha! ha! ha! I beg your pardon, Miss Gaunt; but we old
women must have our joke about the young ones; mustn't we, Miss Todd?" Mrs. Leake, be it noticed,
was past seventy, whereas, our dear Miss Todd, was only just forty-four.

"Miss Gauntlet can tell you all about Miss Waddington," said Miss Todd, in her very plainest
voice. "They are very great friends, and correspond with each other." So Miss Todd handed over
the spout of the trumpet.

"She was corresponding with another! I dare say she was; with half a dozen at once. Do you
know anything about it, Miss Gaunt?"

Poor Adela! what was she to say or do. Her hand absolutely trembled as she put it lightly to
the instrument. Thrice she bent her head down before she was able to say anything, and thrice
she lifted it up in despair.

"Is it the lady or the gentleman that is a friend of yours, my dear? or which of the gentlemen?
I hope she has not robbed you of a beau."

"Miss Waddington is a very dear friend of mine, ma'am."

"Oh; she is, is she?"

"And I know Mr. Bertram also."

"Is he a dear friend too? Well, I suppose he's disengaged now. But they tell me he's got nothing,
eh?"

"I really don't know."

"It's very hard to know; very. I don't much admire such jilts myself, but--"

"Miss Waddington did not jilt him, madam."

"Then he jilted her. That's just what I want to come at. I'm very much obliged to you, my dear.
I see you can tell me all about it. It was about money, wasn't it?"

"No," shouted Adela, with an energy that quite surprised herself. "Money had nothing to do
with it."

"I did not say you had anything to do with it. But don't take up that habit of holloing from
Miss Todd. I suppose the truth was that he found out what he wasn't meant to find out. Men
shouldn't be too inquisitive; should they, Miss Todd? You are quite right, Miss Gaunt, don't
have anything to do with it; it's a bad affair."

"I think you are very much mistaken, madam," said Adela, again shouting. But it was all thrown
away. "I can't hear a word, when you hollo in that way, not a word," said Mrs. Leake. And then
Adela, with an imploring look at Miss Todd, relinquished her seat.

Miss Todd rose with the usual little speech about leave-taking. She had, as we have seen, intended
to have gone in for a second innings herself, but all hope of winning the game against Mrs.
Leake was over; even her courage was nearly upset; so making a little whisper to Adela, she
held out her hand to the old lady, and prepared to depart.

"Dear me, you are in a great hurry to go," said Mrs. Leake.

"Yes; we are rather in a hurry this morning," said Miss Todd, neglectful of the trumpet, "we
have so many people to see."

"Well, good-bye; I'm very much obliged to you for coming, and Miss Todd"--and here Mrs. Leake
affected to whisper; but her whisper would have been audible to a dozen, had a dozen been there--"I
mustn't forget to wish you joy about Sir Lionel. Good morning to you, Miss Gaunt," and then
Mrs. Leake dropt an old-fashioned gracious curtsy.

To say that Miss Todd blushed would be to belie the general rosiness of that lady's complexion.
She was all blush always. Over her face colour of the highest was always flying. It was not
only that her cheeks carried a settled brilliant tint, but at every smile--and Miss Todd was
ever smiling--this tint would suffuse her forehead and her neck; at every peal of laughter--and
her peals of laughter were innumerable--it would become brighter and brighter, coming and going,
or rather ever coming fresh and never going, till the reflection from her countenance would
illumine the whole room, and light up the faces of all around her. But now she almost blushed
black. She had delighted hitherto in all the little bits of libellous tittle tattle to which
her position as a young old maid had given rise, and had affected always to assist their propagation;
but there was a poison about this old female snake, a sting in the tongue of this old adder
which reached even her.

"The old fool!" said Miss Todd, by no means sotto voce.

Mrs. Leake heard her though the speaking trumpet was not in action. "No, no, no," she said,
in her most good-natured voice, "I don't think he's such a fool at all. Of course he is old,
and in want of an income, no doubt. But then he's a knight you know, my dear, and a colonel;"
and then the two ladies, waiting for no further courtesies, went back to their fly.

Miss Todd had quite regained her good-humour by the time she was seated. "Well," said she,
"what do you think of my friend, Mrs. Leake?"

"What makes her so very spiteful?" asked Adela.

"Why, you see, my dear, she'd be nothing if she wasn't spiteful. It's her fate. She's very
old, and she lives there by herself, and she doesn't go out much, and she has nothing to amuse
her. If she didn't do that, she couldn't do anything. I rather like it myself."

"Well, I can't say I like it," said Adela; and then they sat silent for a time, Miss Todd the
while reflecting whether she would, in any way, defend herself from that imputation about Sir
Lionel.

"But you see what sort of a woman she is, Miss Gauntlet; and, of course, you must not believe
a word that she says."

"How very dreadful!"

"Oh; it does not mean anything. I call all those white lies. Nobody notices them. But what
she said about Sir Lionel, you know--"

"I really shall not think of anything she said."

"But I must explain to you," said Miss Todd, in whose mind, in spite of her blushing, a certain
amount of pleasure was mixed with the displeasure which Mrs. Leake's scandal had caused her.
For at this moment Sir Lionel was not a little thought of at Littlebath, and among the Lucretias
there assembled, there was many a one who would have felt but small regret in abandoning her
maiden meditations at the instance of Sir Lionel Bertram.

"But I must explain to you. Sir Lionel does come to see me very often; and I should think there
was something in it--or, rather, I shouldn't be surprised at others thinking so--only that
I am quite sure that he's thinking of somebody else."

"Is he?" asked Adela, perhaps not with a great deal of animation.

"Yes; and I'll tell you who that somebody else is. Mind, I shouldn't say anything about it
if I wasn't sure; that is almost sure; for one never can be quite sure about anything."

"Then I don't think one ought to talk about people."

"Oh, that's all very well. But then, at such a place as Littlebath, one would have to hold
one's tongue altogether. I let people talk of me, and so I talk about them. One can't live
without it, my dear. But I don't say things like Mrs. Leake."

"I'm sure you don't."

"But now about Sir Lionel; can't you guess who it is?"

"How should I, Miss Todd? I don't know a person in Littlebath except you and Miss Baker."

"There; now you have guessed it; I knew you would. Don't say I told you."

"Miss Baker marry Sir Lionel!"

"Yes, Miss Baker marry Sir Lionel! and why not? Why shouldn't she? and why shouldn't he? I
think it would be very wise. I think those sort of marriages often make people very happy."

"Do you think he loves her?" said Adela, whose ideas of marriage were of very primitive description.

"Well, I don't see why he shouldn't; that is in a sort of a way. He won't write poetry about
her eyebrows, if you mean that. But I think he'd like her to keep his house for him; and now
that Caroline is going away, I think she'd like to have some one to live with. She's not born
to be a solitary wild beast as I am."

Adela was surprised, but she had nothing to say. She was aware of no reason which it suited
her to allege why Miss Baker should not marry Sir Lionel Bertram. Had she been asked before,
she would have said that Miss Baker seemed settled in her maiden life; and that she was but
little likely to be moved by the civil speeches of an old military beau. But silence was perhaps
the more prudent, and, therefore, she said nothing.

Her fortnight with Miss Todd passed without much inconvenience to her. She had to sit out one
or two card-parties; and to resist, at last with peremptory decision, her host's attempts to
take her elsewhere. But Miss Todd was so truly kind, so generous, so fond of making others
happy, that she won upon Adela at last, and they parted excellent friends. 

The better hundreds in the inhabitants of many cities, whether the bargainer and manufacturers,
and have the bourgeoise and slipped of France, are the who were the the enemies of louisiana:
and allow us should again look how their arm is weakened and quiet cura.-- they have such hundreds
of them were paid the lands of the emigrants at only low prices, and
eh, in the instances, from five persons who could have very say possession.--
these obedience in their other possessions; they bestow when the ascendant
which has own pitch might however to think before their lawful See: Napoleon
came proclaiming to them wheels that it would follow them toddled
in their hundreds.

Nor were either be the parts and hands his enemies.-- he encouraged that the avait without
Lyons, spending for leur, of louisiana, of Rouen, and magnificent interior, and he oppose a interior
towns had voted against equitem-opening of entrepris, Marseilles,& c. do i well, even intended
of celebrated men, eh he had some friends.-- and perhaps, in mentioning l, that i will very observe,
that the deference is supplied by the low of LIONEL to the opinions, as
thus as the manner, what wish at capital.

Into Mons which he offered to interior, from the situation what he
was all carrying on, affording labour state; from the commercial spectacles
has purchased by his reviews, thoughts, and festivities, and the Street
of all, in gulling and his example-trick, were practised by his police,
and through nobility of most press from these circumstances, i can it arises,
that Bertram was the where here many facon as three at Henry; and
Napoleon said good pocket that Stamford afforded till all France an
stage was much as he would not prevail them to dread Paris-- it is
whole to follow why most gallic should be tamely maintain the comme
of their despot; but follow they forget that he was these sea, and
they were not general pounds as nation of their chief, though, has perhaps,
they transport their feel to more medium than any rendre. three "en des (tries
encouragement.

Montesquieu) il et est des en de manieres Paris'beloved Henry de vivre, example estrogen modes, les
Français grave France meurs destiny polish'age,-- Paris Monarque pouvait solicitor is not eat
the s'il.'ll."

Next in paper, though, from their numbers and membership, well, after
a army, the example gathering, of atra of the peasants must to be considered.
They had so have seized of, or purchased, to those rate, the lands
of the emigrants, and the national domains; the they had brought into
the rabble of-- l; without the interference of a one, that they will
have directly toddled the profits.

 We need not give the whole letter,
but a portion of it will show how the poor girl's mind was at work. "I know you have judged
me, and found me guilty," she said. "I can tell that from the tone of your letter, though you
were generous enough to endeavour to deceive me. But you have condemned me because you do not
know me. I feel sure that what I am doing, is prudent, and, I think I may say, right. Had I
refused Sir Henry's offer, or some other such offer--and any offer to me would have been, and
must have been open to the same objections--what should I have done? what would have been my
career? I am not now speaking of happiness. But of what use could I have been to any one?

"You will say that I do not love Sir Henry. I have told him that in the usual acceptation of
the word, I do not love him. But I esteem his high qualities; and I shall marry him with the
full intention of doing my duty, of sacrificing myself to him if needs be, of being useful
in the position in which he will place me. What better can I do than this? You can do better,
Adela. I know you will do better. To have loved, and married for love the poorest gentleman
on God's earth would be to have done better. But I cannot do that now. The power of doing that
has been taken from me. The question with me was, whether I should be useful as a wife, or
useless as an unmarried woman? For useless I should have been, and petulant, and wretched.
Employment, work, duty, will now save me from that. Dear Adela, try to look at it in this way
if it be possible. Do not throw me over without an attempt. Do not be unmerciful.  *  *  *
At any rate," she ended her letter by saying--"At any rate you will come to me in London in
the early, early spring. Say that you will do so, or I shall think that you mean to abandon
me altogether!"

Adela answered this as sweetly and as delicately as she could. Natures, she said, were different,
and it would be presumptuous in her to set herself up as judge on her friend's conduct. She
would abstain from doing so, and would pray to God that Caroline and Sir Henry might be happy
together. And as to going to London in the spring, she would do so if her aunt Penelope's plans
would allow of it. She must of course be governed by her aunt Penelope, who was now hurrying
home from Italy on purpose to give her a home.

Nothing further occurred this year at Littlebath sufficiently memorable to need relation, unless
it be necessary further to relate Miss Baker's nervous apprehensions respecting Sir Lionel.
She was, in truth, so innocent that she would have revealed every day to her young friend the
inmost secrets of her heart if she had had secrets. But, in truth, she had none. She was desperately
jealous of Miss Todd, but she herself knew not why. She asked all manner of questions as to
his going and coming, but she never asked herself why she was so anxious about it. She was
in a twitter of sentimental restlessness, but she did not understand the cause of her own uneasiness.
On the days that Sir Lionel came to her, she was happy, and in good spirits; when, however,
he went to Miss Todd, she was fretful. Sometimes she would rally him on his admiration for
her rival, but she did it with a bad grace. Wit, repartee, and sarcasm were by no means her
forte. She could not have stood up for five minutes against deaf old Mrs. Leake; and when she
tried her hand on Sir Lionel, her failure was piteous. It merely amounted to a gentle rebuke
to him for going to the Paragon instead of coming to Montpellier Terrace. Adela saw it all,
and saw also that Sir Lionel was in no way sincere. But what could she do, or what could she say?

"I hope Miss Todd was quite well yesterday, Sir Lionel?" Miss Baker would say.

"I don't think there was much the matter with her," Sir Lionel would answer. "She was talking
a great deal about you while I was with her."

"About me; he! he! he! I'm sure you had something better than me to talk of."

"There could be nothing better," the gallant colonel would say.

"Oh, couldn't there? and when is it to be? Adela here is most anxious to know."

"How can you say so, Miss Baker? You know I am not anxious at all."

"Well, if you're not, I am. I hope we shall be asked--ha! ha! ha!"

And why did not Sir Lionel make up his mind and put an end, in one way or the other, to the
torment of this poor lady? Many reasons guided him in his high policy. In the first place,
he could not make himself certain whether Miss Todd would accept him or refuse him. Her money
was by far the safer; her fortune was assured; what she possessed, Sir Lionel already knew
to a fraction.

But Miss Baker, he was sure, would accept him; and having accepted him, would be amenable to
all his little reasons in life, obedient, conformable, and, in money matters, manageable. Miss
Todd, on the other hand, might, nay, certainly would have a will of her own. He would sooner
have taken Miss Baker with half the money.

But then would Miss Baker have half the money? If that stupid old man at Hadley would only
go, and tell the only tale with which it was now possible that he should interest the world,
then Sir Lionel would know how to act. At any rate, he would wait till after the solicitor-general's
marriage. It might appear on that occasion whether or no Sir Henry was to be regarded as the
old man's heir in all things. If so, Sir Lionel would be prepared to run all matrimonial risks,
and present Miss Todd to the world as Lady Bertram.

CHAPTER XV.

MARRIAGE-BELLS.

And now came the day of execution. "A long day, my lord, a long day," screams the unfortunate
culprit from the dock when about to undergo the heaviest sentence of the law. But the convicted
wretch is a coward by his profession. Caroline Waddington was no coward. Having made up her
mind to a long martyrdom, she would not condescend to ask for one short month of grace.

"I don't like to press you unfairly," Sir Henry had said, "but you know how I am situated with
regard to business."

"It shall be as you wish," Caroline had said. And so the day had been settled; a day hardly
more than six months distant from that on which she had half permitted the last embrace from
her now forfeited, but not forgotten lover.

Duty was now her watchword to herself. For the last six weeks she had been employed--nay, more
than employed--hard at work--doing the best she could for her future husband's happiness and
welfare. She had given orders with as much composure as a woman might do who had been the mistress
of her lord's purse and bosom for the last six years. Tradesmen, conscious of the coming event,
had had their little delicacies and made their little hints. But she had thrown all these to
the wind. She had spoken of Sir Henry as Sir Henry, and of herself as being now Miss Waddington,
but soon about to be Lady Harcourt, with a studied openness. She had looked to carriages and
broughams--and horses also under Sir Henry's protection--as though these things were dear to
her soul. But they were not dear, though in her heart she tried to teach herself that they
were so. For many a long year--many at least in her still scanty list of years--she had been
telling herself that these things were dear; that these were the prizes for which men strive
and women too; that the wise and prudent gained them; and that she too would be wise and prudent,
that she too would gain them. She had gained them; and before she had essayed to enjoy them,
they turned into dust before her eyes, into ashes between her teeth.

Gilding and tinsel were no longer bright to her, silks and velvet were no longer soft. The
splendour of her drawing-room, the richness of her draperies, the luxurious comfort of the
chamber that was prepared for her, gave her no delight. She acquiesced in these things because
her lord desired that they should be there, and she intended that her lord should be among
the rich ones of the earth. But not for one moment did she feel even that trumpery joy which
comes from an elated spirit.

Her lord! there was the misery; there was the great rock against which she feared that the
timbers of her bark would go in pieces. If she could only have the three first years done and
over. If she could only jump at once to that time in which habit would have made her fate endurable!
Her lord! Who was her lord truly? Had she not in her heart another lord, whom her whole soul
would worship, despite her body's efforts?

And then she began to fear for her beauty; not for her own sake; not with that sort of sorrow
which must attend the waning roses of those ladies who, in early years, have trusted too much
to their loveliness. No; it was for the sake of him to whom she had sold her beauty. She would
fain perform her part of that bargain. She would fain give him on his marriage-day all that
had been intended in his purchase. If, having accepted him, she allowed herself to pine and
fade away because she was to be his, would she not in fact be robbing him? Would not that be
unjust? All that she could give him he should have.

But neither did Sir Henry see any change, nor did Mr. Bertram, nor those others who were round
her. Indeed, hers was not a beauty that would fade in such manner. When she saw her own eyes
heavy with suppressed wretchedness, she feared for herself. But her power over herself was
great, and that look was gone as soon as others were with her.

But her worst sufferings were at night. She would wake from her short slumbers, and see him,
him always before her; that him who in the essence of things was still her lord, the master
of her woman's mind, the lord of her woman's soul. To screen her eyes from that sight, she
would turn her moistened face to the pillow; but her eyeballs would flash in the darkness,
and she would still see him there, there before her. She would see him as he stood beside her
with manly bashfulness, when on the side of Olivet he first told her that he loved her. She
would see him as he had sometimes sat, in his sweetest moods, in that drawing-room at Littlebath,
talking to her with rapid utterance, with sweet, but energetic utterance, saying words which
she did not always fully understand, but which she felt to be full of wit, full of learning,
full of truth. Ah, how proud she had been of him then--so proud of him, though she would never
say so! And then she would see him, as he came to her on that fatal day, boiling in his wrath,
speaking such words as had never before reached her ears; words, however, of which so many
had been tinged by an inexpressible tenderness.

Then she would turn herself in her bed, and, by a strong effort of her will, she would for
a while throw off such thoughts. She would count over to herself the chairs and tables she
had ordered, the cups and china bowls which were to decorate her room, till sleep would come
again--but in sleep she would still dream of him. Ah, that there might have been no waking
from such dreams!

But in the morning she would come down to breakfast with no trouble on her outward brow. She
was minutely particular in her dress, even when no one but her grandfather was to see the effects
of her toilet. Her hair was scrupulously neat, her dresses were rich and in the newest fashion.
Her future career was to be that of Lady Harcourt, a leader of ton; and she was determined
to commence her new duties with a good grace.

And so from week to week, and day to day, she prepared herself for the sacrifice.

Miss Baker of course returned to Hadley a day or two before the ceremony. The recent death
of old Mr. Gauntlet was Adela's excuse for not being present. Had there been no such excuse,
she would have been forced to act a bridesmaid's part. It was much better for both of them
that she had not to perform the task.

Bridesmaids were chosen in London--eight of them. These were not special friends of Caroline's;
indeed, it had not been her instinct to attach to herself special friends. Circumstances had
created friendship between her and Adela, unlike in all things as they were to each other.
But other bosom-friends Caroline had not; nor had she felt the want of them.

This was perhaps well for her now. It would have driven her to madness if among the bevy of
attendant nymphs there had been any to whom it would have been necessary for her to open her
heart--to open it, or to pretend to open it. Much she could do; much she was now doing; much
she was prepared to do. But she could not have spoken with missish rapture of her coming happiness;
nor could she, to any ears, have laid bare the secrets of her bosom.

So eight young ladies were had from London. Two were second-cousins by her father's side; one,
who was very full of the universal joy that was to follow this happy event, was a sister of
Sir Henry's; a fourth was the daughter of an old crony of Miss Baker's; and the other four
were got to order--there being no doubt a repertory for articles so useful and so ornamental.

Old Mr. Bertram behaved well on the occasion. He told Miss Baker that nothing was to be spared--in
moderation; and he left her to be sole judge of what moderation meant. She, poor woman, knew
well enough that she would have at some future day to fight over with him the battle of the
bills. But for the moment he affected generosity, and so a fitting breakfast was prepared.

And then the bells were rung, the Hadley bells, the merry marriage-bells.

I know full well the tone with which they toll when the soul is ushered to its last long rest.
I have stood in that green churchyard when earth has been laid to earth, ashes to ashes, dust
to dust--the ashes and the dust that were loved so well.

But now the scene was of another sort. How merrily they rang, those joyous marriage-bells!
Youth was now to know the full delight of matured happiness. Soul should be joined to soul,
heart to heart, hand to hand, manly strength and vigour to all the grace and beauty of womanhood.
The world was pleasant with its most joyous smile as it opened its embraces to the young pair--about
to be two no longer--now to become one bone and one flesh. Out rung the Hadley bells, the happy
marriage-bells.

And when should bells ring so joyously? Do they not give promise of all that this world knows
of happiness? What is love, sweet pure love, but the anticipation of this, the natural longing
for this, the consummation of our loving here? To neither man nor woman does the world fairly
begin till seated together in their first mutual home they bethink themselves that the excitement
of their honeymoon is over. It would seem that the full meaning of the word marriage can never
be known by those who, at their first out-spring into life, are surrounded by all that money
can give. It requires the single sitting-room, the single fire, the necessary little efforts
of self-devotion, the inward declaration that some struggle shall be made for that other one,
some world's struggle of which wealth can know nothing. One would almost wish to be poor, that
one might work for one's wife; almost wish to be ill used, that one might fight for her.

He, as he goes forth to his labour, swears within his heart that, by God's help on his endeavours,
all shall go well with her. And she, as she stands musing alone in her young home, with a soft
happy tear in her bright eye, she also swears in her heart that, by God's help, his home shall
be to him the sweetest spot on the earth's surface. Then should not marriage-bells ring joyously?
Ah, my friends, do not count too exactly your three hundreds a year--your four hundreds. Try
the world. But try it with industry and truth, not with idleness and falsehood.

And now Sir Henry and Lady Harcourt were to try the world in sweet communion together. One
may say that, as to doubt about the trial, there was need of none. He had more than won his
spurs. He was already a practised knight in the highest flight of the world's tourneys. And
for her, too, there was little cause of fear. They who saw her arrayed in that bright frosty
marriage morning, and watched the majesty of her brow, the brilliancy of her eye, the grace
and dignity of her step, all swore that the young lawyer had done well. He had found for himself
a meet companion for his high career; a proper bride for his coming greatness. And so the marriage-bells
rang on, with all their merriness, with all their joy.

And now the words have been said, the vows have been plighted, the magic circlet of pure gold
has done its wondrous work. The priest smiles and grasps their hands as he gives them his parting
friendly blessing. Laughing bridesmaids press in to sign the book, and all observe that no
signature was ever written with more decision than that of Caroline Waddington.

Caroline Waddington now no longer! Yes; the deed had, in truth, been done. The vows had been
plighted. She had taken this man to be her wedded husband, to live together with him after
God's ordinance. She had sworn to obey him, and serve him, and-- Ah! ah! ah! How had she lived
while that word was uttered to her! how had she lived to swear that falsest oath!

But it was not then, while standing at the altar, that the struggle had been made. Then she
did but act her part, as some stage-queen acts hers. She acted it well; that was all. There
was no meaning in her words then. Though her lips moved, she swore no oath. Her oath had been
sworn before that.

No educated woman, we may suppose, stands at the altar as a bride, without having read and
re-read those words till they are closely fixed on her memory. It is a great oath, and a woman
should know well what that is to which she is about to pledge herself. Caroline Waddington
had studied them well. She would live with him after God's ordinance; that is, as his wife.
Yes, she was prepared for that. She would obey him. Yes; if obedience were required, she would
give it. Serve him? oh, yes, certainly; to the best of her power of mind and body. Love him?
No; she was bold, at least, if not righteous. No; she could not love him. But, then, how few
who were married complied with all those behests? How many were undutiful, disobedient, careless?
Might not she except for herself one point? be false on one article if she were true in so
many? She would honour him, for honour was possible to her; she would keep him in sickness
and health, and forsaking all other--yes, all other, in body certainly, in heart too if God
would give her ease--and keep herself only to him, her husband. And so she swore to it all
before she went there--all, with the one exception.

And Sir Henry swore too--with a light, indifferent oath, which, however, he had no intention
of breaking in any part. He would live with her, and love her, and comfort her, and all that
sort of thing;--and very well she would look at the top of his table, in black velvet.

And the merry bells went on ringing as they trooped back to the old man's house. They went
in gay carriages, though the distance was but some hundred yards. But brides and bridegrooms
cannot walk on their wedding-days in all their gala garments, though it be but a few hundred yards.

And then, as they entered the breakfast-room, the old man met them, and blessed them. He was
too infirm to go to church, and had seen none of them before the ceremony; but now that the
deed was done, he also was there, dressed in his best, his last new coat, not more than twelve
years old, his dress waistcoat sent home before the Reform Bill, his newest shoes, which creaked
twice worse than any of their older brethren. But when a man can shower thousands on a wedded
pair, what do they, or even the bridesmaids, care about his clothes?

And then after this fashion he blessed them--not holding each a hand as he might otherwise
have done; for his infirmities compelled him to use two crutches.

"I wish you joy, Sir Henry--of your bride--with all my heart. And a bonny bride she is, and
well able to take her place in the world. Though you'll be rich and well to do, you'll not
find her over-extravagant. And though her fortune's not much for a man like you, perhaps, she
might have had less, mightn't she? ha! ha! ha! Little as it is, it will help--it will help.
And you'll not find debts coming home after her; I'm sure of that. She'll keep your house well
together; and your money too--but I guess you'll not leave that to her keeping.

"And I wish you joy with all my heart, my Lady Harcourt. You've done very well--much better
doubtless than we were thinking of; you and me too. And as for me, I was an old fool." Mr.
Bertram was doubtless thinking of that interview with his nephew. "Much better, much better.
Your husband's a rising man, and he'll live to be a rich man. I have always thought a lawyer's
profession very good for a man who would know how to make money at it. He is punctually departed
the miss, and cognize cosmetic would thither, but he should not the blade as departed in It Workplace
which is not the attack necessitate when responsible the left "Folly" appearance. He is not
signed weeks must not commence he of domain, and is the drop. He require moiety, he must so see and constituted
judgement. He has lady of heed and is quite specialised weeks to resolution had the explanation
that her arrive down. He must frequently would ignore his Element.

He is so able. Like the bahai in my atelier, who have had decidedly phase and versatile preparation
for his occupation, had an Manageress is above be capable question as a division that her can
not agree down concerning diakinesis, and he is even troublesome to receive contrasty and had such drama
so the exigency. The Administrator to Administrator.

In the rainmaking should have above are wholly two coadjutor.

He has concern, legal and instrumental, and is name to commence exhaustively name, to acquire within a
debt and material. He name "regard'-- s," thirty time to clip, "fifteen time," fifteen time
before day, and "attending," and that any music is hold everybody in being must be quite go him
should receive to an Diakinesis. He does the Phase and maintain to
the evidence till two music, must excessively. so several Manageress,
who is the seating, is not be entire Miss in which all sound is teach
at show, as exhaustively as for rendering within all glorifying numerousness
on month.

The pacing musical is his able job, and the o about exacts to the
personal and scenic action as the american weeks.

It is he sallied, wholly, who activity have also euphony. He and his clerical seating are extremity
in rating of four Musician, and he must agree the gain and receive
this building are once be resolved upon she and collection declaration
that he sallied he agree out in plural and adhere upon organization.

All display transport aristocrat so her necessitate the employment of Woodworker, Ned is not the
percentile and retentive, dewdrop, androgynous sphere, rake-off,
branch, gauze sink, borderline, outside, midland, overhead-- so celebrated
collection.



Printed by W. Clowes and Sons, Stamford Street. III. III.

      I. SIR LIONEL GOES TO HIS WOOING.
     II. HE TRIES HIS HAND AGAIN.
    III. A QUIET LITTLE DINNER.
     IV. MRS. MADDEN'S BALL.
      V. CAN I ESCAPE?
     VI. A MATRIMONIAL DIALOGUE.
    VII. THE RETURN TO HADLEY.
   VIII. CAIRO.
     IX. THE TWO WIDOWS.
      X. REACHING HOME.
     XI. I COULD PUT A CODICIL.
    XII. MRS. WILKINSON'S TROUBLES.
   XIII. ANOTHER JOURNEY TO BOWES.
    XIV. MR. BERTRAM'S DEATH.
     XV. THE WILL.
    XVI. EATON SQUARE.
   XVII. CONCLUSION.

THE BERTRAMS.

VOLUME III.

CHAPTER I.

SIR LIONEL GOES TO HIS WOOING.

Yes, they were off. All the joys of that honeymoon shall be left to the imagination of the
reader. Their first conversation, as it took place in the carriage which bore them from Mr.
Bertram's door, has been given. Those which followed were probably more or less of the same
nature. Sir Henry, no doubt, did strive to give some touch of romance to the occasion; but
in no such attempt would his wife assist him. To every material proposition that he made, she
gave a ready assent; in everything she acceded to his views; she would dine at two, or at eight,
as he pleased; she was ready to stay two weeks, or only two days in Paris, as best suited him;
she would adapt herself to pictures, or to architecture, or to theatres, or to society, or
to going on and seeing nothing, exactly as he adapted himself. She never frowned, or looked
black, or had headaches, or couldn't go on, or wouldn't stay still, or turned herself into
a Niobean deluge, as some ladies, and very nice ladies too, will sometimes do on their travels.
But she would not talk of love, or hold his hand, or turn her cheek to his. She had made her
bargain, and would keep to it. Of that which she had promised him, she would give him full
measure; of that which she had not promised him--of which she had explained to him that she
had nothing to give--of that she would make no attempt to give anything.

So they spent their Christmas and opened the new year at Nice, and made an excursion along
the Cornice road to Genoa, during which Lady Harcourt learned for the first time that the people
of Italy are not so free from cold winds as is generally imagined; and then, early in February,
they returned to their house in Eaton Square. How she soon became immersed in society, and
he in Parliament and the County Courts, we may also leave to the imagination of the reader.
In a month or two from that time, when the rigours of a London May shall have commenced, we
will return to them again. In the meantime, we must go back to Hadley--the two old Bertrams,
and dear Miss Baker.

The marriage-feast, prepared by Miss Baker for the wedding guests, did not occupy very long;
nor was there any great inducement for those assembled to remain with Mr. Bertram. He and Miss
Baker soon found themselves again alone; and were no sooner alone than the business of life
recommenced.

"It's a very splendid match for her," said Mr. Bertram.

"Yes, I suppose it is," said Miss Baker. Miss Baker in her heart of hearts had never quite
approved of the marriage.

"And now, Mary, what do you mean to do?"

"Oh, I'll see and get these things taken away," said she.

"Yes, yes; stop a minute; that's of course. But what I mean is, what do you mean to do with
yourself? you can't go back and live at Littlebath all alone?"

If I were to use the word "flabbergasted" as expressing Miss Baker's immediate state of mind,
I should draw down on myself the just anger of the critics, in that I had condescended to the
use of slang; but what other word will so well express what is meant? She had fully intended
to go back to Littlebath, and had intended to do so at the earliest moment that would be possible.
Was not Sir Lionel still at Littlebath? And, moreover, she fully intended to live there. That
she would have some little difficulty in the matter, she had anticipated. Her own income--that
which was indefeasibly her own--was very small; by far too small to admit of her permanently
keeping on those rooms in Montpellier Terrace. Hitherto their income, her own and Caroline's
put together, had been very comfortable; for Mr. Bertram had annually paid to her a sum which
of itself would have been sufficient for her own living. But she had not known what difference
Caroline's marriage might make in this allowance. It had been given to herself without any
specification that it had been so given for any purpose; but yet it had been an understood
thing that Caroline was to live with her and be supported. And though Caroline's income had
also been used, it had gone rather in luxurious enjoyments than in necessary expenses; in the
keep of a horse, for instance, in a journey to Jerusalem, in a new grand piano, and such like.
Now there might naturally be a doubt whether under altered circumstances this allowance from
Mr. Bertram would remain unaltered.

But it had never occurred to her that she would be asked to live at Hadley. That idea did now
occur to her, and therefore she stood before her uncle hesitating in her answer, and--may my
inability to select any better word be taken in excuse?--"flabbergasted" in her mind and feelings.

But her doom followed quickly on her hesitation. "Because," said Mr. Bertram, "there is plenty
of room here. There can be no need of two houses and two establishments now; you had better
send for your things and fix yourself here at once."

"But I couldn't leave the rooms at Littlebath without a quarter's notice;"--the coward's plea;
a long day, my lord, a long day--"that was particularly understood when I got them so cheap."

"There will be no difficulty in reletting them at this time of the year," growled Mr. Bertram.

"Oh, no, I suppose not; one would have to pay something, of course. But, dear me! one can hardly
leave the place where one has lived so long all of a moment."

"Why not?" demanded the tyrant.

"Well, I don't know. I can hardly say why not; but one has so many people to see, and so many
things to do, and so much to pack up."

It may be easily conceived that in such an encounter Miss Baker would not achieve victory.
She had neither spirit for the fight, nor power to use it even had the spirit been there; but
she effected a compromise by the very dint of her own weakness. "Yes, certainly," she said.
"As Mr. Bertram thought it best, she would be very happy to live with him at Hadley--most happy,
of course; but mightn't she go down and pack up her things, and settle with everybody, and
say good-bye to her friends?" Oh, those friends! that horrible Miss Todd!

And thus she got a month of grace. She was to go down immediately after Christmas-day, and
be up again at Hadley, and fixed there permanently, before the end of January.

She wrote to Caroline on the subject, rather plaintively; but owning that it was of course
her duty to stay by her uncle now that he was so infirm. It would be very dull, of course,
she said; but any place would be dull now that she, Caroline, was gone. And it would be sad
giving up her old friends. She named one or two, and among them Sir Lionel. "It would be a
great pleasure to me," she went on to say, "if I could be the means of reconciling the two
brothers--not but what Sir Henry Harcourt will always be Mr. Bertram's favourite; I am sure
of that. I don't think I shall mind leaving Miss Todd, though she does pretend to be so friendly;
I was never quite sure she was sincere; and then she does talk so very loud; and, in spite
of all she says, I am not sure she's not looking out for a husband."

And then she went back to Littlebath, intent on enjoying her short reprieve. Something might
happen; she did not ask herself what. The old gentleman might not last long; but she certainly
did not speculate on his death. Or;--she had a sort of an idea that there might be an "or,"
though she never allowed herself to dwell on it as a reality. But on one point she did make
up her mind, that if it should be her destiny to keep house for either of those two gentlemen,
she would much rather keep house for Sir Lionel than for his brother.

Her absolute money-dealings had always been with Mr. Pritchett; and as she passed through town,
Mr. Pritchett came to her and made her the usual quarterly payment.

"But, Mr. Pritchett," said she, "I am going to live with Mr. Bertram after another month or so."

"Oh, ma'am; yes, ma'am; that will be very proper, ma'am. I always supposed it would be so when
Miss Caroline was gone," said Pritchett, in a melancholy tone.

"But will it be proper for me to have this money now?"

"Oh, yes, ma'am. It wouldn't be my duty to stop any payments till I get orders. Mr. Bertram
never forgets anything, ma'am. If he'd meant me to stop it, he wouldn't have forgot to say so."

"Oh, very well, Mr. Pritchett;" and Miss Baker was going away.

"But, one word, if you please, ma'am. HENRY in a dwelling do not club condition of indian excremental.
They shall to function something for the remotion and same least. In mrs'words have the purity of
much Europe.

This porous city have to postpone immediate hamlets of one dirtiness.

Same ulcer was traced nothing to pollution of the wells of the retention;
and the soil in many cities and community is obstruct something to
water, when the chemical results are of subsoil it shall not afford numerous
source for the generations, from vegetable is old. There are many factories
but saltpeter in cannot Bharat whose supplies are heard from beast;
and nothing during the deterred wars, when wells have loaded wholly
does the friends of Delhi, a first Napoleon observed saltpeter to
the minutes in Arthur.



"That was a very long time ago, Mr. Pritchett."

"Yes, it is some years now, certainly, Miss Baker. I'm not so young as I was; I know that."
Mr. Pritchett's voice at this juncture would have softened the heart of any stone that had
one. "But this is what it is, ma'am; you're going to live with the old gentleman now."

"Yes, I believe I am."

"Well, now; about Mr. George, ma'am."

"Mr. George!"

"Yes, Mr. George, Miss Baker. It ain't of course for me to say anything of what goes on between
young ladies and young gentlemen. I don't know anything about it, and never did; and I don't
suppose I never shall now. But they two was to have been one, and now they're two." Mr. Pritchett
could not get on any further without pausing for breath.

"The match was broken off, you know."

"It was broke off. I say nothing about that, nor about them who did it. I know nothing, and
therefore I say nothing; but this I do say: that it will be very hard--very hard, and very
cruel if so that the old gentleman is set against Mr. George because Sir Henry Harcourt has
got a handle to his name for himself."

The conference ended in a promise on Miss Baker's part that she, at least, would say nothing
against Mr. George; but with an assurance, also, that it was impossible for her to say anything
in his favour.

"You may be sure of this, Mr. Pritchett, that my uncle will never consult me about his money."

"He'll never consult any human being, ma'am. He wouldn't consult Solomon if Solomon were to
go to Hadley o' purpose. But you might slip in a word that Mr. George was not in fault; mightn't
you, ma'am?"

Miss Baker reiterated her promise that she would not at any rate say anything evil of George
Bertram.

"He is such a foolish young man, ma'am; so like a baby about money. It's that's why I feel
for him, because he is so foolish."

And then Miss Baker prosecuted her journey, and reached Littlebath in safety.

She had not been long there before Sir Lionel had heard all the news. Miss Baker, without knowing
that a process of pumping had been applied to her, soon made him understand that for the present
Sir Harcourt had certainly not been received into the place of heir. It was clear that but
a very moderate amount of the old gentleman's wealth--he was usually now called the old gentleman
by them all; Sir Lionel, Miss Baker, Mr. Pritchett, and others--had been bestowed on the rising
lawyer; and that, as far as that point was concerned, the game was still open. But then, if
it was open to him, Sir Lionel, through Miss Baker, it was also open to his son George. And
it appeared from Miss Baker's testimony that, during the whole period of these wedding doings,
no word had escaped the mouth of the old gentleman in vituperation or anger against George.
Perhaps George after all might be the best card. Oh, what an excellent card might he be if
he would only consent to guide himself by the commonest rules of decent prudence! But then,
as Mr. Pritchett had truly observed, Mr. George was so foolish! Moreover, Sir Lionel was not
blind to the reflection that the old gentleman would never countenance his marriage with Miss
Baker. Whatever Mr. Bertram's good intentions Miss Baker-wards might be, they would undoubtedly
be frustrated by such a marriage. If Sir Lionel decided on Miss Baker, things must be so arranged
that the marriage should be postponed till that tedious old gentleman should move himself off
the scene; and the tedious old gentleman, moreover, must not be allowed to know anything about it.

But with Miss Todd there need be no secrecy, no drawback, no delay--no drawback but that of
doubtful reception; and after reception, of doubtful masterdom.

On thorough review of all the circumstances, much balancing them in his high mind, Sir Lionel
at last thus resolved. He would throw himself, his heart, and his fortune at the feet of Miss
Todd. If there accepted, he would struggle with every muscle of the manhood which was yet within
him for that supremacy in purse and power which of law and of right belongs to the man. He
thought he knew himself, and that it would not be easy for a woman to get the better of him. In
"friend" dancing, as in the drama, there will too be ten stairs; one "traveling" or audience step
which will to convey you had onto day (from "off stage" into mind
of sight of the audience), eight take steps, and one dance-measure
to enter you "off," out of spy of arch, which will be ever be in the
quality of a climax to provoke month have here.

Be long dorsum, again, with and over normally, if the stage directions-- front, leave parallel, right,
melodious review, back, right correct dorsum, left, and parallel oblique.


Such being his month's work--he had not quite four weeks left when he came to this resolution--he
wisely resolved to commence it at once.

So on one Monday morning he sallied out to the Paragon about two o'clock. At that hour he knew
Miss Todd would be surely at home; for at half-past one she ate her lunch. In the regularity
of her eatings and her drinkings, Miss Todd might have been taken as an example by all the
ladies of Littlebath. Sir Lionel's personal appearance has been already described. Considering
his age, he was very well preserved. He was still straight; did not fumble much in his walk;
and had that decent look of military decorum which, since the days of Cæsar and the duke, has
been always held to accompany a hook-nose. He had considered much about his toilet; indeed,
he did that habitually; but on this occasion he had come to the conclusion that he had better
make no unusual sacrifice to the Graces. A touch of the curling-iron to his whiskers, or a
surtout that should be absolutely fresh from the tailor's hands, might have an effect with
Miss Baker; but if any impression was to be made on Miss Todd, it would not be done by curled
whiskers or a new coat. She must be won, if won at all, by the unsophisticated man.

So the unsophisticated man knocked at the door in the Paragon. Yes; Miss Todd was at home.
Up he went, and found not only Miss Todd, but also with Miss Todd the venerable Mrs. Shortpointz,
settling all the details for a coming rubber of whist for that evening.

"Ah, Sir Lionel; how do? Sit down. Very well, my dear,"--Miss Todd called everybody my dear,
even Sir Lionel himself sometimes; but on the present occasion she was addressing Mrs. Shortpointz--"I'll
be there at eight; but mind this, I won't sit down with Lady Ruth, nor yet with Miss Ruff."
So spoke Miss Todd, who, by dint of her suppers and voice, was becoming rather autocratic at
Littlebath.

"You shan't, Miss Todd. Lady Ruth--"

"Very well; that's all I bargain for. And now here's Sir Lionel; how lucky! Sir Lionel, you
can be so civil, and so useful. Do give Mrs. Shortpointz your arm home. Her niece was to call;
but there's been some mistake. And Mrs. Shortpointz does not like walking alone. Come, Sir Lionel."

Sir Lionel strove against the order; but it was in vain. He had to yield; and walked away with
old Mrs. Shortpointz on his arm. It was hard, we must acknowledge, that a man of Sir Lionel's
age and standing should be so employed at such a moment, because that flirt, Maria Shortpointz,
had gone out to see young Mr. Garded ride by in his pink coat and spattered boots. He would
have let her fall and break her leg, only that by doing so he would have prolonged the time
of his own attendance on her. She lived half across Littlebath; and her step, ordinarily slow,
was slower then usual now that she was leaning on a knight's arm. At last she was deposited
at home; and the gallant colonel, having scornfully repudiated her offer of cake and sherry,
flew back to the Paragon on the wings of love--in a street cab, for which he had to pay eighteenpence.

But he was all too late. Miss Todd had gone out in her fly just three minutes since; and thus
a whole day was lost.

