THE COPY-CAT

AND OTHER STORIES

By Mary E. Wilkins Freeman

CONTENTS

     THE COPY-CAT

     THE COCK OF THE WALK

     JOHNNY-IN-THE-WOODS

     DANIEL AND LITTLE DAN'L

     BIG SISTER SOLLY

     LITTLE LUCY ROSE

     NOBLESSE

     CORONATION

     THE AMETHYST COMB

     THE UMBRELLA MAN

     THE BALKING OF CHRISTOPHER

     DEAR ANNIE

THE COPY-CAT

THAT affair of Jim Simmons's cats never became known. Two little boys and a little girl can
keep a secret--that is, sometimes. The two little boys had the advantage of the little girl
because they could talk over the affair together, and the little girl, Lily Jennings, had no
intimate girl friend to tempt her to confidence. She had only little Amelia Wheeler, commonly
called by the pupils of Madame's school "The Copy-Cat."

Amelia was an odd little girl--that is, everybody called her odd. She was that rather unusual
creature, a child with a definite ideal; and that ideal was Lily Jennings. However, nobody
knew that. If Amelia's mother, who was a woman of strong character, had suspected, she would
have taken strenuous measures to prevent such a peculiar state of affairs; the more so because
she herself did not in the least approve of Lily Jennings. Mrs. Diantha Wheeler (Amelia's father
had died when she was a baby) often remarked to her own mother, Mrs. Stark, and to her mother-in-law,
Mrs. Samuel Wheeler, that she did not feel that Mrs. Jennings was bringing up Lily exactly
as she should. "That child thinks entirely too much of her looks," said Mrs. Diantha. "When
she walks past here she switches those ridiculous frilled frocks of hers as if she were entering
a ballroom, and she tosses her head and looks about to see if anybody is watching her. If I
were to see Amelia doing such things I should be very firm with her."

"Lily Jennings is a very pretty child," said Mother-in-law Wheeler, with an under-meaning,
and Mrs. Diantha flushed. Amelia did not in the least resemble the Wheelers, who were a handsome
set. She looked remarkably like her mother, who was a plain woman, only little Amelia did not
have a square chin. Her chin was pretty and round, with a little dimple in it. In fact, Amelia's
chin was the prettiest feature she had. Her hair was phenomenally straight. It would not even
yield to hot curling-irons, which her grandmother Wheeler had tried surreptitiously several
times when there was a little girls' party. "I never saw such hair as that poor child has in
all my life," she told the other grandmother, Mrs. Stark. "Have the Starks always had such
very straight hair?"

Mrs. Stark stiffened her chin. Her own hair was very straight. "I don't know," said she, "that
the Starks have had any straighter hair than other people. If Amelia does not have anything
worse to contend with than straight hair I rather think she will get along in the world as
well as most people."

"It's thin, too," said Grandmother Wheeler, with a sigh, "and it hasn't a mite of color. Oh,
well, Amelia is a good child, and beauty isn't everything." Grandmother Wheeler said that as
if beauty were a great deal, and Grandmother Stark arose and shook out her black silk skirts.
She had money, and loved to dress in rich black silks and laces.

"It is very little, very little indeed," said she, and she eyed Grandmother Wheeler's lovely
old face, like a wrinkled old rose as to color, faultless as to feature, and swept about by
the loveliest waves of shining silver hair.

Then she went out of the room, and Grandmother Wheeler, left alone, smiled. She knew the worth
of beauty for those who possess it and those who do not. She had never been quite reconciled
to her son's marrying such a plain girl as Diantha Stark, although she had money. She considered
beauty on the whole as a more valuable asset than mere gold. She regretted always that poor
little Amelia, her only grandchild, was so very plain-looking. She always knew that Amelia
was very plain, and yet sometimes the child puzzled her. She seemed to see reflections of beauty,
if not beauty itself, in the little colorless face, in the figure, with its too-large joints
and utter absence of curves. She sometimes even wondered privately if some subtle resemblance
to the handsome Wheelers might not be in the child and yet appear. But she was mistaken. What
she saw was pure mimicry of a beautiful ideal.

Little Amelia tried to stand like Lily Jennings; she tried to walk like her; she tried to smile
like her; she made endeavors, very often futile, to dress like her. Mrs. Wheeler did not in
the least approve of furbelows for children. Poor little Amelia went clad in severe simplicity;
durable woolen frocks in winter, and washable, unfadable, and non-soil-showing frocks in summer.
She, although her mother had perhaps more money wherewith to dress her than had any of the
other mothers, was the plainest-clad little girl in school. Amelia, moreover, never tore a
frock, and, as she did not grow rapidly, one lasted several seasons. Lily Jennings was destructive,
although dainty. Her pretty clothes were renewed every year. Amelia was helpless before that
problem. For a little girl burning with aspirations to be and look like another little girl
who was beautiful and wore beautiful clothes, to be obliged to set forth for Madame's on a
lovely spring morning, when thin attire was in evidence, dressed in dark-blue-andwhite-checked
gingham, which she had worn for three summers, and with sleeves which, even to childish eyes,
were anachronisms, was a trial. Then to see Lily flutter in a frock like a perfectly new white
flower was torture; not because of jealousy--Amelia was not jealous; but she so admired the
other little girl, and so loved her, and so wanted to be like her.

As for Lily, she hardly ever noticed Amelia. She was not aware that she herself was an object
of adoration; for she was a little girl who searched for admiration in the eyes of little boys
rather than little girls, although very innocently. She always glanced slyly at Johnny Trumbull
when she wore a pretty new frock, to see if he noticed. He never did, and she was sharp enough
to know it. She was also child enough not to care a bit, but to take a queer pleasure in the
sensation of scorn which she felt in consequence. She would eye Johnny from head to foot, his
boy's clothing somewhat spotted, his bulging pockets, his always dusty shoes, and when he twisted
uneasily, not understanding why, she had a thrill of purely feminine delight. It was on one
such occasion that she first noticed Amelia Wheeler particularly.

It was a lovely warm morning in May, and Lily was a darling to behold--in a big hat with a
wreath of blue flowers, her hair tied with enormous blue silk bows, her short skirts frilled
with eyelet embroidery, her slender silk legs, her little white sandals. Madame's maid had
not yet struck the Japanese gong, and all the pupils were out on the lawn, Amelia, in her clean,
ugly gingham and her serviceable brown sailor hat, hovering near Lily, as usual, like a common,
very plain butterfly near a particularly resplendent blossom. Lily really noticed her. She
spoke to her confidentially; she recognized her fully as another of her own sex, and presumably
of similar opinions.

"Ain't boys ugly, anyway?" inquired Lily of Amelia, and a wonderful change came over Amelia.
Her sallow cheeks bloomed; her eyes showed blue glitters; her little skinny figure became instinct
with nervous life. She smiled charmingly, with such eagerness that it smote with pathos and
bewitched.

"Oh yes, oh yes," she agreed, in a voice like a quick flute obbligato. "Boys are ugly."

"Such clothes!" said Lily.

"Yes, such clothes!" said Amelia.

"Always spotted," said Lily.

"Always covered all over with spots," said Amelia.

"And their pockets always full of horrid things," said Lily.

"Yes," said Amelia.

Amelia glanced openly at Johnny Trumbull; Lily with a sidewise effect.

Johnny had heard every word. Suddenly he arose to action and knocked down Lee Westminster,
and sat on him.

"Lemme up!" said Lee.

Johnny had no quarrel whatever with Lee. He grinned, but he sat still. Lee, the sat-upon, was
a sharp little boy. "Showing off before the gals!" he said, in a thin whisper.

"Hush up!" returned Johnny.

"Will you give me a writing-pad--I lost mine, and mother said I couldn't have another for a
week if I did--if I don't holler?" inquired Lee.

"Yes. Hush up!"

Lee lay still, and Johnny continued to sit upon his prostrate form. Both were out of sight
of Madame's windows, behind a clump of the cedars which graced her lawn.

"Always fighting," said Lily, with a fine crescendo of scorn. She lifted her chin high, and
also her nose.

"Always fighting," said Amelia, and also lifted her chin and nose. Amelia was a born mimic.
She actually looked like Lily, and she spoke like her.

Then Lily did a wonderful thing. She doubled her soft little arm into an inviting loop for
Amelia's little claw of a hand.

"Come along, Amelia Wheeler," said she. "We don't want to stay near horrid, fighting boys.
We will go by ourselves."

And they went. Madame had a headache that morning, and the Japanese gong did not ring for fifteen
minutes longer. During that time Lily and Amelia sat together on a little rustic bench under
a twinkling poplar, and they talked, and a sort of miniature sun-and-satellite relation was
established between them, although neither was aware of it. Lily, being on the whole a very
normal little girl, and not disposed to even a full estimate of herself as compared with others
of her own sex, did not dream of Amelia's adoration, and Amelia, being rarely destitute of
self-consciousness, did not understand the whole scope of her own sentiments. It was quite
sufficient that she was seated close to this wonderful Lily, and agreeing with her to the verge
of immolation.

"Of course," said Lily, "girls are pretty, and boys are just as ugly as they can be."

"Oh yes," said Amelia, fervently.

"But," said Lily, thoughtfully, "it is queer how Johnny Trumbull always comes out ahead in
a fight, and he is not so very large, either."

"Yes," said Amelia, but she realized a pang of jealousy. "Girls could fight, I suppose," said she.

"Oh yes, and get their clothes all torn and messy," said Lily.

"I shouldn't care," said Amelia. Then she added, with a little toss, "I almost know I could
fight." The thought even floated through her wicked little mind that fighting might be a method
of wearing out obnoxious and durable clothes.

"You!" said Lily, and the scorn in her voice wilted Amelia.

"Maybe I couldn't," said she.

"Of course you couldn't, and if you could, what a sight you'd be. Of course it wouldn't hurt
your clothes as much as some, because your mother dresses you in strong things, but you'd be
sure to get black and blue, and what would be the use, anyway? You couldn't be a boy, if you
did fight."

"No. I know I couldn't."

"Then what is the use? We are a good deal prettier than boys, and cleaner, and have nicer manners,
and we must be satisfied."

"You are prettier," said Amelia, with a look of worshipful admiration at Lily's sweet little face.

"You are prettier," said Lily. Then she added, equivocally, "Even the very homeliest girl is
prettier than a boy."

Poor Amelia, it was a good deal for her to be called prettier than a very dusty boy in a fight.
She fairly dimpled with delight, and again she smiled charmingly. Lily eyed her critically.

"You aren't so very homely, after all, Amelia," she said. "You needn't think you are."

Amelia smiled again.

"When you look like you do now you are real pretty," said Lily, not knowing or even suspecting
the truth, that she was regarding in the face of this little ardent soul her own, as in a mirror.

However, it was after that episode that Amelia Wheeler was called "Copy-Cat." The two little
girls entered Madame's select school arm in arm, when the musical gong sounded, and behind
them came Lee Westminster and Johnny Trumbull, surreptitiously dusting their garments, and
ever after the fact of Amelia's adoration and imitation of Lily Jennings was evident to all.
Even Madame became aware of it, and held conferences with two of the under teachers.

"It is not at all healthy for one child to model herself so entirely upon the pattern of another,"
said Miss Parmalee.

"Most certainly it is not," agreed Miss Acton, the music-teacher.

"Why, that poor little Amelia Wheeler had the rudiments of a fairly good contralto. I had begun
to wonder if the poor child might not be able at least to sing a little, and so make up for--other
things; and now she tries to sing high like Lily Jennings, and I simply cannot prevent it.
She has heard Lily play, too, and has lost her own touch, and now it is neither one thing nor
the other."

"I might speak to her mother," said Madame, thoughtfully. Madame was American born, but she
married a French gentleman, long since deceased, and his name sounded well on her circulars.
She and her two under teachers were drinking tea in her library.

Miss Parmalee, who was a true lover of her pupils, gasped at Madame's proposition. "Whatever
you do, please do not tell that poor child's mother," said she.

"I do not think it would be quite wise, if I may venture to express an opinion," said Miss
Acton, who was a timid soul, and always inclined to shy at her own ideas.

"But why?" asked Madame.

"Her mother," said Miss Parmalee, "is a quite remarkable woman, with great strength of character,
but she would utterly fail to grasp the situation."

"I must confess," said Madame, sipping her tea, "that I fail to understand it. Why any child
not an absolute idiot should so lose her own identity in another's absolutely bewilders me.
I never heard of such a case."

Miss Parmalee, who had a sense of humor, laughed a little. "It is bewildering," she admitted.
"And now the other children see how it is, and call her 'Copy-Cat' to her face, but she does
not mind. I doubt if she understands, and neither does Lily, for that matter. Lily Jennings
is full of mischief, but she moves in straight lines; she is not conceited or self-conscious,
and she really likes Amelia, without knowing why."

"I fear Lily will lead Amelia into mischief," said Madame, "and Amelia has always been such
a good child."

"Lily will never MEAN to lead Amelia into mischief," said loyal Miss Parmalee.

"But she will," said Madame.

"If Lily goes, I cannot answer for Amelia's not following," admitted Miss Parmalee.

"I regret it all very much indeed," sighed Madame, "but it does seem to me still that Amelia's
mother--"

"Amelia's mother would not even believe it, in the first place," said Miss Parmalee.

"Well, there is something in that," admitted Madame. "I myself could not even imagine such
a situation. I would not know of it now, if you and Miss Acton had not told me."

"There is not the slightest use in telling Amelia not to imitate Lily, because she does not
know that she is imitating her," said Miss Parmalee. "If she were to be punished for it, she
could never comprehend the reason."

"That is true," said Miss Acton. "I realize that when the poor child squeaks instead of singing.
All I could think of this morning was a little mouse caught in a trap which she could not see.
She does actually squeak!--and some of her low notes, although, of course, she is only a child,
and has never attempted much, promised to be very good."

"She will have to squeak, for all I can see," said Miss Parmalee. "It looks to me like one
of those situations that no human being can change for better or worse."

"I suppose you are right," said Madame, "but it is most unfortunate, and Mrs. Wheeler is such
a superior woman, and Amelia is her only child, and this is such a very subtle and regrettable
affair. Well, we have to leave a great deal to Providence."

"If," said Miss Parmalee, "she could only get angry when she is called 'Copy-Cat.'" Miss Parmalee
laughed, and so did Miss Acton. Then all the ladies had their cups refilled, and left Providence
to look out for poor little Amelia Wheeler, in her mad pursuit of her ideal in the shape of
another little girl possessed of the exterior graces which she had not.

Meantime the little "Copy-Cat" had never been so happy. She began to improve in her looks also.
Her grandmother Wheeler noticed it first, and spoke of it to Grandmother Stark. "That child
may not be so plain, after all," said she. "I looked at her this morning when she started for
school, and I thought for the first time that there was a little resemblance to the Wheelers."

Grandmother Stark sniffed, but she looked gratified. "I have been noticing it for some time,"
said she, "but as for looking like the Wheelers, I thought this morning for a minute that I
actually saw my poor dear husband looking at me out of that blessed child's eyes."

Grandmother Wheeler smiled her little, aggravating, curved, pink smile.

But even Mrs. Diantha began to notice the change for the better in Amelia. She, however, attributed
it to an increase of appetite and a system of deep breathing which she had herself taken up
and enjoined Amelia to follow. Amelia was following Lily Jennings instead, but that her mother
did not know. Still, she was gratified to see Amelia's little sallow cheeks taking on pretty
curves and a soft bloom, and she was more inclined to listen when Grandmother Wheeler ventured
to approach the subject of Amelia's attire.

"Amelia would not be so bad-looking if she were better dressed, Diantha," said she.

Diantha lifted her chin, but she paid heed. "Why, does not Amelia dress perfectly well, mother?"
she inquired.

"She dresses well enough, but she needs more ribbons and ruffles."

"I do not approve of so many ribbons and ruffles," said Mrs. Diantha. "Amelia has perfectly
neat, fresh black or brown ribbons for her hair, and ruffles are not sanitary."

"Ruffles are pretty," said Grandmother Wheeler, "and blue and pink are pretty colors. Now,
that Jennings girl looks like a little picture."

But that last speech of Grandmother Wheeler's undid all the previous good. Mrs. Diantha had
an unacknowledged--even to herself--disapproval of Mrs. Jennings which dated far back in the
past, for a reason which was quite unworthy of her and of her strong mind. When she and Lily's
mother had been girls, she had seen Mrs. Jennings look like a picture, and had been perfectly
well aware that she herself fell far short of an artist's ideal. Perhaps if Mrs. Stark had
believed in ruffles and ribbons, her daughter might have had a different mind when Grandmother
Wheeler had finished her little speech.

As it was, Mrs. Diantha surveyed her small, pretty mother-in-law with dignified serenity, which
savored only delicately of a snub. "I do not myself approve of the way in which Mrs. Jennings
dresses her daughter," said she, "and I do not consider that the child presents to a practical
observer as good an appearance as my Amelia."

Grandmother Wheeler had a temper. It was a childish temper and soon over--still, a temper.
"Lord," said she, "if you mean to say that you think your poor little snipe of a daughter,
dressed like a little maid-of-all-work, can compare with that lovely little Lily Jennings,
who is dressed like a doll!--"

"I do not wish that my daughter should be dressed like a doll," said Mrs. Diantha, coolly.

"Well, she certainly isn't," said Grandmother Wheeler. "Nobody would ever take her for a doll
as far as looks or dress are concerned. She may be GOOD enough. I don't deny that Amelia is
a good little girl, but her looks could be improved on."

"Looks matter very little," said Mrs. Diantha.

"They matter very much," said Grandmother Wheeler, pugnaciously, her blue eyes taking on a
peculiar opaque glint, as always when she lost her temper, "very much indeed. But looks can't
be helped. If poor little Amelia wasn't born with pretty looks, she wasn't. But she wasn't
born with such ugly clothes. She might be better dressed."

"I dress my daughter as I consider best," said Mrs. Diantha. Then she left the room.

Grandmother Wheeler sat for a few minutes, her blue eyes opaque, her little pink lips a straight
line; then suddenly her eyes lit, and she smiled. "Poor Diantha," said she, "I remember how
Henry used to like Lily Jennings's mother before he married Diantha. Sour grapes hang high."
But Grandmother Wheeler's beautiful old face was quite soft and gentle. From her heart she
pitied the reacher after those high-hanging sour grapes, for Mrs. Diantha had been very good
to her.

Then Grandmother Wheeler, who had a mild persistency not evident to a casual observer, began
to make plans and lay plots. She was resolved, Diantha or not, that her granddaughter, her
son's child, should have some fine feathers. The little conference had taken place in her own
room, a large, sunny one, with a little storeroom opening from it. Presently Grandmother Wheeler
rose, entered the storeroom, and began rummaging in some old trunks. Then followed days of
secret work. Grandmother Wheeler had been noted as a fine needlewoman, and her hand had not
yet lost its cunning. She had one of Amelia's ugly little ginghams, purloined from a closet,
for size, and she worked two or three dainty wonders. She took Grandmother Stark into her confidence.
Sometimes the two ladies, by reason of their age, found it possible to combine with good results.

"Your daughter Diantha is one woman in a thousand," said Grandmother Wheeler, diplomatically,
one day, "but she never did care much for clothes."

"Diantha," returned Grandmother Stark, with a suspicious glance, "always realized that clothes
were not the things that mattered."

"And, of course, she is right," said Grandmother Wheeler, piously. "Your Diantha is one woman
in a thousand. If she cared as much for fine clothes as some women, I don't know where we should
all be. It would spoil poor little Amelia."

"Yes, it would," assented Grandmother Stark. "Nothing spoils a little girl more than always
to be thinking about her clothes."

"Yes, I was looking at Amelia the other day, and thinking how much more sensible she appeared
in her plain gingham than Lily Jennings in all her ruffles and ribbons. Even if people were
all noticing Lily, and praising her, thinks I to myself, 'How little difference such things
really make. Even if our dear Amelia does stand to one side, and nobody notices her, what real
matter is it?'" Grandmother Wheeler was inwardly chuckling as she spoke.

Grandmother Stark was at once alert. "Do you mean to say that Amelia is really not taken so
much notice of because she dresses plainly?" said she.

"You don't mean that you don't know it, as observant as you are?" replied Grandmother Wheeler.

"Diantha ought not to let it go as far as that," said Grandmother Stark. Grandmother Wheeler
looked at her queerly. "Why do you look at me like that?"

"Well, I did something I feared I ought not to have done. And I didn't know what to do, but
your speaking so makes me wonder--"

"Wonder what?"

Then Grandmother Wheeler went to her little storeroom and emerged bearing a box. She displayed
the contents--three charming little white frocks fluffy with lace and embroidery.

"Did you make them?"

"Yes, I did. I couldn't help it. I thought if the dear child never wore them, it would be some
comfort to know they were in the house."

"That one needs a broad blue sash," said Grandmother Stark.

Grandmother Wheeler laughed. She took her impecuniosity easily. "I had to use what I had,"
said she.

"I will get a blue sash for that one," said Grandmother Stark, "and a pink sash for that, and
a flowered one for that."

"Of course they will make all the difference," said Grandmother Wheeler. "Those beautiful sashes
will really make the dresses."

"I will get them," said Grandmother Stark, with decision. "I will go right down to Mann Brothers'
store now and get them."

"Then I will make the bows, and sew them on," replied Grandmother Wheeler, happily.

It thus happened that little Amelia Wheeler was possessed of three beautiful dresses, although
she did not know it.

For a long time neither of the two conspiring grandmothers dared divulge the secret. Mrs. Diantha
was a very determined woman, and even her own mother stood somewhat in awe of her. Therefore,
little Amelia went to school during the spring term soberly clad as ever, and even on the festive
last day wore nothing better than a new blue gingham, made too long, to allow for shrinkage,
and new blue hair-ribbons. The two grandmothers almost wept in secret conclave over the lovely
frocks which were not worn.

"I respect Diantha," said Grandmother Wheeler. "You know that. She is one woman in a thousand,
but I do hate to have that poor child go to school to-day with so many to look at her, and
she dressed so unlike all the other little girls."

"Diantha has got so much sense, it makes her blind and deaf," declared Grandmother Stark. "I
call it a shame, if she is my daughter."

"Then you don't venture--"

Grandmother Stark reddened. She did not like to own to awe of her daughter. "I VENTURE, if
that is all," said she, tartly. "You don't suppose I am afraid of Diantha?--but she would not
let Amelia wear one of the dresses, anyway, and I don't want the child made any unhappier than
she is."

"Well, I will admit," replied Grandmother Wheeler, "if poor Amelia knew she had these beautiful
dresses and could not wear them she might feel worse about wearing that homely gingham."

"Gingham!" fairly snorted Grandmother Stark. "I cannot see why Diantha thinks so much of gingham.
It shrinks, anyway."

Poor little Amelia did undoubtedly suffer on that last day, when she sat among the others gaily
clad, and looked down at her own common little skirts. She was very glad, however, that she
had not been chosen to do any of the special things which would have necessitated her appearance
upon the little flower-decorated platform. She did not know of the conversation between Madame
and her two assistants.

"I would have Amelia recite a little verse or two," said Madame, "but how can I?" Madame adored
dress, and had a lovely new one of sheer dull-blue stuff, with touches of silver, for the last day.

"Yes," agreed Miss Parmalee, "that poor child is sensitive, and for her to stand on the platform
in one of those plain ginghams would be too cruel."

"Then, too," said Miss Acton, "she would recite her verses exactly like Lily Jennings. She
can make her voice exactly like Lily's now. Then everybody would laugh, and Amelia would not
know why. She would think they were laughing at her dress, and that would be dreadful."

If Amelia's mother could have heard that conversation everything would have been different,
although it is puzzling to decide in what way.

It was the last of the summer vacation in early September, just before school began, that a
climax came to Amelia's idolatry and imitation of Lily. The Jenningses had not gone away that
summer, so the two little girls had been thrown together a good deal. Mrs. Diantha never went
away during a summer. She considered it her duty to remain at home, and she was quite pitiless
to herself when it came to a matter of duty.

However, as a result she was quite ill during the last of August and the first of September.
The season had been unusually hot, and Mrs. Diantha had not spared herself from her duty on
account of the heat. She would have scorned herself if she had done so. But she could not,
strong-minded as she was, avert something like a heat prostration after a long walk under a
burning sun, nor weeks of confinement and idleness in her room afterward.

When September came, and a night or two of comparative coolness, she felt stronger; still she
was compelled by most unusual weakness to refrain from her energetic trot in her duty-path;
and then it was that something happened.

One afternoon Lily fluttered over to Amelia's, and Amelia, ever on the watch, spied her.

"May I go out and see Lily?" she asked Grandmother Stark.

"Yes, but don't talk under the windows; your mother is asleep."

Amelia ran out.

"I declare," said Grandmother Stark to Grandmother Wheeler, "I was half a mind to tell that
child to wait a minute and slip on one of those pretty dresses. I hate to have her go on the
street in that old gingham, with that Jennings girl dressed up like a wax doll."

"I know it."

"And now poor Diantha is so weak--and asleep--it would not have annoyed her."

"I know it."

Grandmother Stark looked at Grandmother Wheeler. Of the two she possessed a greater share of
original sin compared with the size of her soul. Moreover, she felt herself at liberty to circumvent
her own daughter. Whispering, she unfolded a daring scheme to the other grandmother, who stared
at her aghast a second out of her lovely blue eyes, then laughed softly.

"Very well," said she, "if you dare."

"I rather think I dare!" said Grandmother Stark. "Isn't Diantha Wheeler my own daughter?" Grandmother
Stark had grown much bolder since Mrs. Diantha had been ill.

Meantime Lily and Amelia walked down the street until they came to a certain vacant lot intersected
by a foot-path between tall, feathery grasses and goldenrod and asters and milkweed. They entered
the foot-path, and swarms of little butterflies rose around them, and once in a while a protesting
bumblebee.

"I am afraid we will be stung by the bees," said Amelia.

"Bumblebees never sting," said Lily; and Amelia believed her.

When the foot-path ended, there was the riverbank. The two little girls sat down under a clump
of brook willows and talked, while the river, full of green and blue and golden lights, slipped
past them and never stopped.

Then Lily proceeded to unfold a plan, which was not philosophical, but naughtily ingenious.
By this time Lily knew very well that Amelia admired her, and imitated her as successfully
as possible, considering the drawback of dress and looks.

When she had finished Amelia was quite pale. "I am afraid, I am afraid, Lily," said she.

"What of?"

"My mother will find out; besides, I am afraid it isn't right."

"Who ever told you it was wrong?"

"Nobody ever did," admitted Amelia.

"Well, then you haven't any reason to think it is," said Lily, triumphantly. "And how is your
mother ever going to find it out?"

"I don't know."

"Isn't she ill in her room? And does she ever come to kiss you good night, the way my mother
does, when she is well?"

"No," admitted Amelia.

"And neither of your grandmothers?"

"Grandmother Stark would think it was silly, like mother, and Grandmother Wheeler can't go
up and down stairs very well."

"I can't see but you are perfectly safe. I am the only one that runs any risk at all. I run
a great deal of risk, but I am willing to take it," said Lily with a virtuous air. Lily had
a small but rather involved scheme simply for her own ends, which did not seem to call for
much virtue, but rather the contrary.

Lily had overheard Arnold Carruth and Johnny Trumbull and Lee Westminster and another boy,
Jim Patterson, planning a most delightful affair, which even in the cases of the boys was fraught
with danger, secrecy, and doubtful rectitude. Not one of the four boys had had a vacation from
the village that summer, and their young minds had become charged, as it were, with the seeds
of revolution and rebellion. Jim Patterson, the son of the rector, and of them all the most
venturesome, had planned to take--he called it "take"; he meant to pay for it, anyway, he said,
as soon as he could shake enough money out of his nickel savings-bank--one of his father's
Plymouth Rock chickens and have a chickenroast in the woods back of Dr. Trumbull's. He had
planned for Johnny to take some ears of corn suitable for roasting from his father's garden;
for Lee to take some cookies out of a stone jar in his mother's pantry; and for Arnold to take
some potatoes. Then they four would steal forth under cover of night, build a camp-fire, roast
their spoils, and feast.

Lily had resolved to be of the party. She resorted to no open methods; the stones of the fighting
suffragettes were not for her, little honey-sweet, curled, and ruffled darling; rather the
time-worn, if not time-sanctified, weapons of her sex, little instruments of wiles, and tiny
dodges, and tiny subterfuges, which would serve her best.

"You know," she said to Amelia, "you don't look like me. Of course you know that, and that
can't be helped; but you do walk like me, and talk like me, you know that, because they call
you 'CopyCat.'"

"Yes, I know," said poor Amelia.

"I don't mind if they do call you 'Copy-Cat,'" said Lily, magnanimously. "I don't mind a bit.
But, you see, my mother always comes up-stairs to kiss me good night after I have gone to bed,
and tomorrow night she has a dinner-party, and she will surely be a little late, and I can't
manage unless you help me. I will get one of my white dresses for you, and all you have to
do is to climb out of your window into that cedar-tree--you know you can climb down that, because
you are so afraid of burglars climbing up--and you can slip on my dress; you had better throw
it out of the window and not try to climb in it, because my dresses tear awful easy, and we
might get caught that way. Then you just sneak down to our house, and I shall be outdoors;
and when you go up-stairs, if the doors should be open, and anybody should call, you can answer
just like me; and I have found that light curly wig Aunt Laura wore when she had her head shaved
after she had a fever, and you just put that on and go to bed, and mother will never know when
she kisses you good night. Then after the roast I will go to your house, and climb up that
tree, and go to bed in your room. And I will have one of your gingham dresses to wear, and
very early in the morning I will get up, and you get up, and we both of us can get down the
back stairs without being seen, and run home."

Amelia was almost weeping. It was her worshiped Lily's plan, but she was horribly scared. "I
don't know," she faltered.

"Don't know! You've got to! You don't love me one single bit or you wouldn't stop to think
about whether you didn't know." It was the world-old argument which floors love. Amelia succumbed.

The next evening a frightened little girl clad in one of Lily Jennings's white embroidered
frocks was racing to the Jenningses' house, and another little girl, not at all frightened,
but enjoying the stimulus of mischief and unwontedness, was racing to the wood behind Dr. Trumbull's
house, and that little girl was clad in one of Amelia Wheeler's ginghams. But the plan went
all awry.

Lily waited, snuggled up behind an alder-bush, and the boys came, one by one, and she heard
this whispered, although there was no necessity for whispering, "Jim Patterson, where's that hen?"

"Couldn't get her. Grabbed her, and all her tail-feathers came out in a bunch right in my hand,
and she squawked so, father heard. He was in his study writing his sermon, and he came out,
and if I hadn't hid behind the chicken-coop and then run I couldn't have got here. But I can't
see as you've got any corn, Johnny Trumbull."

"Couldn't. Every single ear was cooked for dinner."

"I couldn't bring any cookies, either," said Lee Westminster; "there weren't any cookies in
the jar."

"And I couldn't bring the potatoes, because the outside cellar door was locked," said Arnold
Carruth. "I had to go down the back stairs and out the south door, and the inside cellar door
opens out of our dining-room, and I daren't go in there."

"Then we might as well go home," said Johnny Trumbull. "If I had been you, Jim Patterson, I
would have brought that old hen if her tail-feathers had come out. Seems to me you scare awful
easy."

"Guess if you had heard her squawk!" said Jim, resentfully. "If you want to try to lick me,
come on, Johnny Trumbull. Guess you don't darse call me scared again."

Johnny eyed him standing there in the gloom. Jim was not large, but very wiry, and the ground
was not suited for combat. Johnny, although a victor, would probably go home considerably the
worse in appearance; and he could anticipate the consequences were his father to encounter him.

"Shucks!" said Johnny Trumbull, of the fine old Trumbull family and Madame's exclusive school.
"Shucks! who wants your old hen? We had chicken for dinner, anyway."

"So did we," said Arnold Carruth.

"We did, and corn," said Lee.

"We did," said Jim.

Lily stepped forth from the alder-bush. "If," said she, "I were a boy, and had started to have
a chicken-roast, I would have HAD a chicken-roast."

But every boy, even the valiant Johnny Trumbull, was gone in a mad scutter. This sudden apparition
of a girl was too much for their nerves. They never even knew who the girl was, although little
Arnold Carruth said she had looked to him like "Copy-Cat," but the others scouted the idea.

Lily Jennings made the best of her way out of the wood across lots to the road. She was not
in a particularly enviable case. Amelia Wheeler was presumably in her bed, and she saw nothing
for it but to take the difficult way to Amelia's.

Lily tore a great rent in the gingham going up the cedar-tree, but that was nothing to what
followed. She entered through Amelia's window, her prim little room, to find herself confronted
by Amelia's mother in a wrapper, and her two grandmothers. Grandmother Stark had over her arm
a beautiful white embroidered dress. The two old ladies had entered the room in order to lay
the white dress on a chair and take away Amelia's gingham, and there was no Amelia. Mrs. Diantha
had heard the commotion, and had risen, thrown on her wrapper, and come. Her mother had turned
upon her.

"It is all your fault, Diantha," she had declared.

"My fault?" echoed Mrs. Diantha, bewildered. "Where is Amelia?"

"We don't know," said Grandmother Stark, "but you have probably driven her away from home by
your cruelty."

"Cruelty?"

"Yes, cruelty. What right had you to make that poor child look like a fright, so people laughed
at her? We have made her some dresses that look decent, and had come here to leave them, and
to take away those old gingham things that look as if she lived in the almshouse, and leave
these, so she would either have to wear them or go without, when we found she had gone."

It was at that crucial moment that Lily entered by way of the window.

"Here she is now," shrieked Grandmother Stark. "Amelia, where--" Then she stopped short.

Everybody stared at Lily's beautiful face suddenly gone white. For once Lily was frightened.
She lost all self-control. She began to sob. She could scarcely tell the absurd story for sobs,
but she told, every word.

Then, with a sudden boldness, she too turned on Mrs. Diantha. "They call poor Amelia 'CopyCat,'"
said she, "and I don't believe she would ever have tried so hard to look like me only my mother
dresses me so I look nice, and you send Amelia to school looking awfully." Then Lily sobbed again.

"My Amelia is at your house, as I understand?" said Mrs. Diantha, in an awful voice.

"Ye-es, ma-am."

"Let me go," said Mrs. Diantha, violently, to Grandmother Stark, who tried to restrain her.
Mrs. Diantha dressed herself and marched down the street, dragging Lily after her. The little
girl had to trot to keep up with the tall woman's strides, and all the way she wept.

It was to Lily's mother's everlasting discredit, in Mrs. Diantha's opinion, but to Lily's wonderful
relief, that when she heard the story, standing in the hall in her lovely dinner dress, with
the strains of music floating from the drawing-room, and cigar smoke floating from the dining-room,
she laughed. When Lily said, "And there wasn't even any chickenroast, mother," she nearly had
hysterics.

"If you think this is a laughing matter, Mrs. Jennings, I do not," said Mrs. Diantha, and again
her dislike and sorrow at the sight of that sweet, mirthful face was over her. It was a face
to be loved, and hers was not.

"Why, I went up-stairs and kissed the child good night, and never suspected," laughed Lily's
mother.

"I got Aunt Laura's curly, light wig for her," explained Lily, and Mrs. Jennings laughed again.

It was not long before Amelia, in her gingham, went home, led by her mother--her mother, who
was trembling with weakness now. Mrs. Diantha did not scold. She did not speak, but Amelia
felt with wonder her little hand held very tenderly by her mother's long fingers.

When at last she was undressed and in bed, Mrs. Diantha, looking very pale, kissed her, and
so did both grandmothers.

Amelia, being very young and very tired, went to sleep. She did not know that that night was
to mark a sharp turn in her whole life. Thereafter she went to school "dressed like the best,"
and her mother petted her as nobody had ever known her mother could pet.

It was not so very long afterward that Amelia, out of her own improvement in appearance, developed
a little stamp of individuality.

One day Lily wore a white frock with blue ribbons, and Amelia wore one with coral pink. It
was a particular day in school; there was company, and tea was served.

"I told you I was going to wear blue ribbons," Lily whispered to Amelia. Amelia smiled lovingly
back at her.

"Yes, I know, but I thought I would wear pink."

THE COCK OF THE WALK

DOWN the road, kicking up the dust until he marched, soldier-wise, in a cloud of it, that rose
and grimed his moist face and added to the heavy, brown powder upon the wayside weeds and flowers,
whistling a queer, tuneless thing, which yet contained definite sequences--the whistle of a
bird rather than a boy--approached Johnny Trumbull, aged ten, small of his age, but accounted
by his mates mighty.

Johnny came of the best and oldest family in the village, but it was in some respects an undesirable
family for a boy. In it survived, as fossils survive in ancient nooks and crannies of the earth,
old traits of race, unchanged by time and environment. Living in a house lighted by electricity,
the mental conception of it was to the Trumbulls as the conception of candles; with telephones
at hand, they unconsciously still conceived of messages delivered with the old saying, "Ride,
ride," etc., and relays of post-horses. They locked their doors, but still had latch-strings
in mind. Johnny's father was a physician, adopting modern methods of surgery and prescription,
yet his mind harked back to cupping and calomel, and now and then he swerved aside from his
path across the field of the present into the future and plunged headlong, as if for fresh
air, into the traditional past, and often with brilliant results.

Johnny's mother was a college graduate. She was the president of the woman's club. She read
papers savoring of such feminine leaps ahead that they were like gymnastics, but she walked
homeward with the gait of her great-grandmother, and inwardly regarded her husband as her lord
and master. She minced genteelly, lifting her quite fashionable skirts high above very slender
ankles, which were hereditary. Not a woman of her race had ever gone home on thick ankles,
and they had all gone home. They had all been at home, even if abroad--at home in the truest
sense. At the club, reading her inflammatory paper, Cora Trumbull's real self remained at home
intent upon her mending, her dusting, her house economics. It was something remarkably like
her astral body which presided at the club.

As for her unmarried sister Janet, who was older and had graduated from a young ladies' seminary
instead of a college, whose early fancy had been guided into the lady-like ways of antimacassars
and pincushions and wax flowers under glass shades, she was a straighter proposition. No astral
pretensions had Janet. She stayed, body and soul together, in the old ways, and did not even
project her shadow out of them. There is seldom room enough for one's shadow in one's earliest
way of life, but there was plenty for Janet's. There had been a Janet unmarried in every Trumbull
family for generations. That in some subtle fashion accounted for her remaining single. There
had also been an unmarried Jonathan Trumbull, and that accounted for Johnny's old bachelor
uncle Jonathan. Jonathan was a retired clergyman. He had retired before he had preached long,
because of doctrinal doubts, which were hereditary. He had a little, dark study in Johnny's
father's house, which was the old Trumbull homestead, and he passed much of his time there,
debating within himself that matter of doctrines.

Presently Johnny, assiduously kicking up dust, met his uncle Jonathan, who passed without the
slightest notice. Johnny did not mind at all. He was used to it. Presently his own father appeared,
driving along in his buggy the bay mare at a steady jog, with the next professional call quite
clearly upon her equine mind. And Johnny's father did not see him. Johnny did not mind that,
either. He expected nothing different.

Then Johnny saw his mother approaching. She was coming from the club meeting. She held up her
silk skirts high, as usual, and carried a nice little parcel of papers tied with ribbon. She
also did not notice Johnny, who, however, out of sweet respect for his mother's nice silk dress,
stopped kicking up dust. Mrs. Trumbull on the village street was really at home preparing a
shortcake for supper.

Johnny eyed his mother's faded but rather beautiful face under the rose-trimmed bonnet with
admiration and entire absence of resentment. Then he walked on and kicked up the dust again.
He loved to kick up the dust in summer, the fallen leaves in autumn, and the snow in winter.
Johnny was not a typical Trumbull. None of them had ever cared for simple amusements like that.
Looking back for generations on his father's and mother's side (both had been Trumbulls, but
very distantly related), none could be discovered who in the least resembled Johnny. No dim
blue eye of retrospection and reflection had Johnny; no tendency to tall slenderness which
would later bow beneath the greater weight of the soul. Johnny was small, but wiry of build,
and looked able to bear any amount of mental development without a lasting bend of his physical
shoulders. Johnny had, at the early age of ten, whopped nearly every boy in school, but that
was a secret of honor. It was well known in the school that, once the Trumbulls heard of it,
Johnny could never whop again. "You fellows know," Johnny had declared once, standing over
his prostrate and whimpering foe, "that I don't mind getting whopped at home, but they might
send me away to another school, and then I could never whop any of you fellows."

Johnny Trumbull kicking up the dust, himself dust-covered, his shoes, his little queerly fitting
dun suit, his cropped head, all thickly powdered, loved it. He sniffed in that dust like a
grateful incense. He did not stop dust-kicking when he saw his aunt Janet coming, for, as he
considered, her old black gown was not worth the sacrifice. It was true that she might see
him. She sometimes did, if she were not reading a book as she walked. It had always been a
habit with the Janet Trumbulls to read improving books when they walked abroad. To-day Johnny
saw, with a quick glance of those sharp, black eyes, so unlike the Trumbulls', that his aunt
Janet was reading. He therefore expected her to pass him without recognition, and marched on
kicking up the dust. But suddenly, as he grew nearer the spry little figure, he was aware of
a pair of gray eyes, before which waved protectingly a hand clad in a black silk glove with
dangling finger-tips, because it was too long, and it dawned swiftly upon him that Aunt Janet
was trying to shield her face from the moving column of brown motes. He stopped kicking, but
it was too late. Aunt Janet had him by the collar and was vigorously shaking him with nervous
strength.

"You are a very naughty little boy," declared Aunt Janet. "You should know better than to walk
along the street raising so much dust. No well-brought-up child ever does such things. Who
are your parents, little boy?"

Johnny perceived that Aunt Janet did not recognize him, which was easily explained. She wore
her reading-spectacles and not her far-seeing ones; besides, her reading spectacles were obscured
by dust and her nephew's face was nearly obliterated. Also as she shook him his face was not
much in evidence. Johnny disliked, naturally, to tell his aunt Janet that her own sister and
brother-in-law were the parents of such a wicked little boy. He therefore kept quiet and submitted
to the shaking, making himself as limp as a rag. This, however, exasperated Aunt Janet, who
found herself encumbered by a dead weight of a little boy to be shaken, and suddenly Johnny
Trumbull, the fighting champion of the town, the cock of the walk of the school, found himself
being ignominiously spanked. That was too much. Johnny's fighting blood was up. He lost all
consideration for circumstances, he forgot that Aunt Janet was not a boy, that she was quite
near being an old lady. She had overstepped the bounds of privilege of age and sex, and an
alarming state of equality ensued. Quickly the tables were turned. The boy became far from
limp. He stiffened, then bounded and rebounded like wire. He butted, he parried, he observed
all his famous tactics of battle, and poor Aunt Janet sat down in the dust, black dress, bonnet,
glasses (but the glasses were off and lost), little improving book, black silk gloves, and
all; and Johnny, hopeless, awful, irreverent, sat upon his Aunt Janet's plunging knees, which
seemed the most lively part of her. He kept his face twisted away from her, but it was not
from cowardice. Johnny was afraid lest Aunt Janet should be too much overcome by the discovery
of his identity. He felt that it was his duty to spare her that. So he sat still, triumphant
but inwardly aghast.

It was fast dawning upon him that his aunt was not a little boy. He was not afraid of any punishment
which might be meted out to him, but he was simply horrified. He himself had violated all the
honorable conditions of warfare. He felt a little dizzy and ill, and he felt worse when he
ventured a hurried glance at Aunt Janet's face. She was very pale through the dust, and her
eyes were closed. Johnny thought then that he had killed her.

He got up--the nervous knees were no longer plunging; then he heard a voice, a little-girl
voice, always shrill, but now high pitched to a squeak with terror. It was the voice of Lily
Jennings. She stood near and yet aloof, a lovely little flower of a girl, all white-scalloped
frills and ribbons, with a big white-frilled hat shading a pale little face and covering the
top of a head decorated with wonderful yellow curls. She stood behind a big baby-carriage with
a pink-lined muslin canopy and containing a nest of pink and white, but an empty nest. Lily's
little brother's carriage had a spring broken, and she had been to borrow her aunt's baby-carriage,
so that nurse could wheel little brother up and down the veranda. Nurse had a headache, and
the maids were busy, and Lily, who was a kind little soul and, moreover, imaginative, and who
liked the idea of pushing an empty baby-carriage, had volunteered to go for it. All the way
she had been dreaming of what was not in the carriage. She had come directly out of a dream
of doll twins when she chanced upon the tragedy in the road.

"What have you been doing now, Johnny Trumbull?" said she. She was tremulous, white with horror,
but she stood her ground. It was curious, but Johnny Trumbull, with all his bravery, was always
cowed before Lily. Once she had turned and stared at him when he had emerged triumphant but
with bleeding nose from a fight; then she had sniffed delicately and gone her way. It had only
taken a second, but in that second the victor had met moral defeat.

He looked now at her pale, really scared face, and his own was as pale. He stood and kicked
the dust until the swirling column of it reached his head.

"That's right," said Lily; "stand and kick up dust all over me. WHAT have you been doing?"

Johnny was trembling so he could hardly stand. He stopped kicking dust.

"Have you killed your aunt?" demanded Lily. It was monstrous, but she had a very dramatic imagination,
and there was a faint hint of enjoyment in her tragic voice.

"Guess she's just choked by dust," volunteered Johnny, hoarsely. He kicked the dust again.

"That's right," said Lily. "If she's choked to death by dust, stand there and choke her some
more. You are a murderer, Johnny Trumbull, and my mamma will never allow me to speak to you
again, and Madame will not allow you to come to school. AND--I see your papa driving up the
street, and there is the chief policeman's buggy just behind." Lily acquiesced entirely in
the extraordinary coincidence of the father and the chief of police appearing upon the scene.
The unlikely seemed to her the likely. "NOW," said she, cheerfully, "you will be put in state
prison and locked up, and then you will be put to death by a very strong telephone."

Johnny's father was leaning out of his buggy, looking back at the chief of police in his, and
the mare was jogging very slowly in a perfect reek of dust. Lily, who was, in spite of her
terrific imagination, human and a girl, rose suddenly to heights of pity and succor. "They
shall never take you, Johnny Trumbull," said she. "I will save you."

Johnny by this time was utterly forgetful of his high status as champion (behind her back)
of Madame's very select school for select children of a somewhat select village. He was forgetful
of the fact that a champion never cries. He cried; he blubbered; tears rolled over his dusty
cheeks, making furrows like plowshares of grief. He feared lest he might have killed his aunt
Janet. Women, and not very young women, might presumably be unable to survive such rough usage
as very tough and at the same time very limber little boys, and he loved his poor aunt Janet.
He grieved because of his aunt, his parents, his uncle, and rather more particularly because
of himself. He was quite sure that the policeman was coming for him. Logic had no place in
his frenzied conclusions. He did not consider how the tragedy had taken place entirely out
of sight of a house, that Lily Jennings was the only person who had any knowledge of it. He
looked at the masterful, fair-haired little girl like a baby. "How?" sniffed he.

For answer, Lily pointed to the empty baby-carriage. "Get right in," she ordered.

Even in this dire extremity Johnny hesitated. "Can't."

"Yes, you can. It is extra large. Aunt Laura's baby was a twin when he first came; now he's
just an ordinary baby, but his carriage is big enough for two. There's plenty of room. Besides,
you're a very small boy, very small of your age, even if you do knock all the other boys down
and have murdered your aunt. Get in. In a minute they will see you."

There was in reality no time to lose. Johnny did get in. In spite of the provisions for twins,
there was none too much room.

Lily covered him up with the fluffy pink-and-lace things, and scowled. "You hump up awfully,"
she muttered. Then she reached beneath him and snatched out the pillow on which he lay, the
baby's little bed. She gave it a swift toss over the fringe of wayside bushes into a field.
"Aunt Laura's nice embroidered pillow," said she. "Make yourself just as flat as you can, Johnny
Trumbull."

Johnny obeyed, but he was obliged to double himself up like a jack-knife. However, there was
no sign of him visible when the two buggies drew up. There stood a pale and frightened little
girl, with a baby-carriage canopied with rose and lace and heaped up with rosy and lacy coverlets,
presumably sheltering a sleeping infant. Lily was a very keen little girl. She had sense enough
not to run. The two men, at the sight of Aunt Janet prostrate in the road, leaped out of their
buggies. The doctor's horse stood still; the policeman's trotted away, to Lily's great relief.
She could not imagine Johnny's own father haling him away to state prison and the stern Arm
of Justice. She stood the fire of bewildered questions in the best and safest fashion. She
wept bitterly, and her tears were not assumed. Poor little Lily was all of a sudden crushed
under the weight of facts. There was Aunt Janet, she had no doubt, killed by her own nephew,
and she was hiding the guilty murderer. She had visions of state prison for herself. She watched
fearfully while the two men bent over the prostrate woman, who very soon began to sputter and
gasp and try to sit up.

"What on earth is the matter, Janet?" inquired Dr. Trumbull, who was paler than his sister-inlaw.
In fact, she was unable to look very pale on account of dust.

"Ow!" sputtered Aunt Janet, coughing violently, "get me up out of this dust, John. Ow!"

"What was the matter?"

"Yes, what has happened, madam?" demanded the chief of police, sternly.

"Nothing," replied Aunt Janet, to Lily's and Johnny's amazement. "What do you think has happened?
I fell down in all this nasty dust. Ow!"

"What did you eat for luncheon, Janet?" inquired Dr. Trumbull, as he assisted his sister-inlaw
to her feet.

"What I was a fool to eat," replied Janet Trumbull, promptly. "Cucumber salad and lemon jelly
with whipped cream."

"Enough to make anybody have indigestion," said Dr. Trumbull. "You have had one of these attacks
before, too, Janet. You remember the time you ate strawberry shortcake and ice-cream?"

Janet nodded meekly. Then she coughed again. "Ow, this dust!" gasped she. "For goodness' sake,
John, get me home where I can get some water and take off these dusty clothes or I shall choke
to death."

"How does your stomach feel?" inquired Dr. Trumbull.

"Stomach is all right now, but I am just choking to death with the dust." Janet turned sharply
toward the policeman. "You have sense enough to keep still, I hope," said she. "I don't want
the whole town ringing with my being such an idiot as to eat cucumbers and cream together and
being found this way." Janet looked like an animated creation of dust as she faced the chief
of police.

"Yes, ma'am," he replied, bowing and scraping one foot and raising more dust.

He and Dr. Trumbull assisted Aunt Janet into the buggy, and they drove off. Then the chief
of police discovered that his own horse had gone. "Did you see which way he went, sis?" he
inquired of Lily, and she pointed down the road, and sobbed as she did so.

The policeman said something bad under his breath, then advised Lily to run home to her ma,
and started down the road.

When he was out of sight, Lily drew back the pink-and-white things from Johnny's face. "Well,
you didn't kill her this time," said she.

"Why do you s'pose she didn't tell all about it?" said Johnny, gaping at her.

"How do I know? I suppose she was ashamed to tell how she had been fighting, maybe."

"No, that was not why," said Johnny in a deep voice.

"Why was it, then?"

"SHE KNEW."

Johnny began to climb out of the baby-carriage.

"What will she do next, then?" asked Lily.

"I don't know," Johnny replied, gloomily.

He was out of the carriage then, and Lily was readjusting the pillows and things. "Get that
nice embroidered pillow I threw over the bushes," she ordered, crossly. Johnny obeyed. When
she had finished putting the baby-carriage to rights she turned upon poor little Johnny Trumbull,
and her face wore the expression of a queen of tragedy. "Well," said Lily Jennings, "I suppose
I shall have to marry you when I am grown up, after all this."

Johnny gasped. He thought Lily the most beautiful girl he knew, but to be confronted with murder
and marriage within a few minutes was almost too much. He flushed a burning red. He laughed
foolishly. He said nothing.

"It will be very hard on me," stated Lily, "to marry a boy who tried to murder his nice aunt."

Johnny revived a bit under this feminine disdain. "I didn't try to murder her," he said in
a weak voice.

"You might have, throwing her down in all that awful dust, a nice, clean lady. Ladies are not
like boys. It might kill them very quickly to be knocked down on a dusty road."

"I didn't mean to kill her."

"You might have."

"Well, I didn't, and--she--"

"What?"

"She spanked me."

"Pooh! That doesn't amount to anything," sniffed Lily.

"It does if you are a boy."

"I don't see why."

"Well, I can't help it if you don't. It does."

"Why shouldn't a boy be spanked when he's naughty, just as well as a girl, I would like to know?"

"Because he's a boy."

Lily looked at Johnny Trumbull. The great fact did remain. He had been spanked, he had thrown
his own aunt down in the dust. He had taken advantage of her little-girl protection, but he
was a boy. Lily did not understand his why at all, but she bowed before it. However, that she
would not admit. She made a rapid change of base. "What," said she, "are you going to do next?"

Johnny stared at her. It was a puzzle.

"If," said Lily, distinctly, "you are afraid to go home, if you think your aunt will tell,
I will let you get into Aunt Laura's baby-carriage again, and I will wheel you a little way."

Johnny would have liked at that moment to knock Lily down, as he had his aunt Janet. Lily looked
at him shrewdly. "Oh yes," said she, "you can knock me down in the dust there if you want to,
and spoil my nice clean dress. You will be a boy, just the same."

"I will never marry you, anyway," declared Johnny.

"Aren't you afraid I'll tell on you and get you another spanking if you don't?"

"Tell if you want to. I'd enough sight rather be spanked than marry you."

A gleam of respect came into the little girl's wisely regarding blue eyes. She, with the swiftness
of her sex, recognized in forlorn little Johnny the making of a man. "Oh, well," said she,
loftily, "I never was a telltale, and, anyway, we are not grown up, and there will be my trousseau
to get, and a lot of other things to do first. I shall go to Europe before I am married, too,
and I might meet a boy much nicer than you on the steamer."

"Meet him if you want to."

Lily looked at Johnny Trumbull with more than respect--with admiration--but she kept guard
over her little tongue. "Well, you can leave that for the future," said she with a grown-up air.

"I ain't going to leave it. It's settled for good and all now," growled Johnny.

To his immense surprise, Lily curved her white embroidered sleeve over her face and began to weep.

"What's the matter now?" asked Johnny, sulkily, after a minute.

"I think you are a real horrid boy," sobbed Lily.

Lily looked like nothing but a very frilly, sweet, white flower. Johnny could not see her face.
There was nothing to be seen except that delicate fluff of white, supported on dainty white-socked,
white-slippered limbs.

"Say," said Johnny.

"You are real cruel, when I--I saved your--li-fe," wailed Lily.

"Say," said Johnny, "maybe if I don't see any other girl I like better I will marry you when
I am grown up, but I won't if you don't stop that howling."

Lily stopped immediately. She peeped at him, a blue peep from under the flopping, embroidered
brim of her hat. "Are you in earnest?" She smiled faintly. Her blue eyes, wet with tears, were
lovely; so was her hesitating smile.

"Yes, if you don't act silly," said Johnny. "Now you had better run home, or your mother will
wonder where that baby-carriage is."

Lily walked away, smiling over her shoulder, the smile of the happily subjugated. "I won't
tell anybody, Johnny," she called back in her flute-like voice.

"Don't care if you do," returned Johnny, looking at her with chin in the air and shoulders
square, and Lily wondered at his bravery.

But Johnny was not so brave and he did care. He knew that his best course was an immediate
return home, but he did not know what he might have to face. He could not in the least understand
why his aunt Janet had not told at once. He was sure that she knew. Then he thought of a possible
reason for her silence; she might have feared his arrest at the hands of the chief of police.
Johnny quailed. He knew his aunt Janet to be rather a brave sort of woman. If she had fears,
she must have had reason for them. He might even now be arrested. Suppose Lily did tell. He
had a theory that girls usually told. He began to speculate concerning the horrors of prison.
Of course he would not be executed, since his aunt was obviously very far from being killed,
but he might be imprisoned for a long term.

Johnny went home. He did not kick the dust any more. He walked very steadily and staidly. When
he came in sight of the old Colonial mansion, with its massive veranda pillars, he felt chilly.
However, he went on. He passed around to the south door and entered and smelled shortcake.
It would have smelled delicious had he not had so much on his mind. He looked through the hall,
and had a glimpse of his uncle Jonathan in the study, writing. At the right of the door was
his father's office. The door of that was open, and Johnny saw his father pouring things from
bottles. He did not look at Johnny. His mother crossed the hall. She had on a long white apron,
which she wore when making her famous cream shortcakes. She saw Johnny, but merely observed,
"Go and wash your face and hands, Johnny; it is nearly supper-time."

Johnny went up-stairs. At the upper landing he found his aunt Janet waiting for him. "Come
here," she whispered, and Johnny followed her, trembling, into her own room. It was a large
room, rather crowded with heavy, old-fashioned furniture. Aunt Janet had freed herself from
dust and was arrayed in a purple silk gown. Her hair was looped loosely on either side of her
long face. She was a handsome woman, after a certain type.

"Stand here, Johnny," said she. She had closed the door, and Johnny was stationed before her.
She did not seem in the least injured nor the worse for her experience. On the contrary, there
was a bright-red flush on her cheeks, and her eyes shone as Johnny had never seen them. She
looked eagerly at Johnny.

"Why did you do that?" she said, but there was no anger in her voice.

"I forgot," began Johnny.

"Forgot what?" Her voice was strained with eagerness.

"That you were not another boy," said Johnny.

"Tell me," said Aunt Janet. "No, you need not tell me, because if you did it might be my duty
to inform your parents. I know there is no need of your telling. You MUST be in the habit of
fighting with the other boys."

"Except the little ones," admitted Johnny.

To Johnny's wild astonishment, Aunt Janet seized him by the shoulders and looked him in the
eyes with a look of adoration and immense approval. "Thank goodness," said she, "at last there
is going to be a fighter in the Trumbull family. Your uncle would never fight, and your father
would not. Your grandfather would. Your uncle and your father are good men, though; you must
try to be like them, Johnny."

"Yes, ma'am," replied Johnny, bewildered.

"I think they would be called better men than your grandfather and my father," said Aunt Janet.

"Yes, ma'am."

"I think it is time for you to have your grandfather's watch," said Aunt Janet. "I think you
are man enough to take care of it." Aunt Janet had all the time been holding a black leather
case. Now she opened it, and Johnny saw the great gold watch which he had seen many times before
and had always understood was to be his some day, when he was a man. "Here," said Aunt Janet.
"Take good care of it. You must try to be as good as your uncle and father, but you must remember
one thing--you will wear a watch which belonged to a man who never allowed other men to crowd
him out of the way he elected to go."

"Yes, ma'am," said Johnny. He took the watch.

"What do you say?" inquired his aunt, sharply.

"Thank you."

"That's right. I thought you had forgotten your manners. Your grandfather never did."

"I am sorry. Aunt Janet," muttered Johnny, "that I--"

"You need never say anything about that," his aunt returned, quickly. "I did not see who you
were at first. You are too old to be spanked by a woman, but you ought to be whipped by a man,
and I wish your grandfather were alive to do it."

"Yes, ma'am," said Johnny. He looked at her bravely. "He could if he wanted to," said he.

Aunt Janet smiled at him proudly. "Of course," said she, "a boy like you never gets the worst
of it fighting with other boys."

"No, ma'am," said Johnny.

Aunt Janet smiled again. "Now run and wash your face and hands," said she; "you must not keep
supper waiting. Your mother has a paper to write for her club, and I have promised to help her."

"Yes, ma'am," said Johnny. He walked out, carrying the great gold timepiece, bewildered, embarrassed,
modest beneath his honors, but little cock of the walk, whether he would or no, for reasons
entirely and forever beyond his ken.

JOHNNY-IN-THE-WOODS

JOHNNY TRUMBULL, he who had demonstrated his claim to be Cock of the Walk by a most impious
hand-to-hand fight with his own aunt, Miss Janet Trumbull, in which he had been decisively
victorious, and won his spurs, consisting of his late grandfather's immense, solemnly ticking
watch, was to take a new path of action. Johnny suddenly developed the prominent Trumbull trait,
but in his case it was inverted. Johnny, as became a boy of his race, took an excursion into
the past, but instead of applying the present to the past, as was the tendency of the other
Trumbulls, he forcibly applied the past to the present. He fairly plastered the past over the
exigencies of his day and generation like a penetrating poultice of mustard, and the results
were peculiar.

Johnny, being bidden of a rainy day during the midsummer vacation to remain in the house, to
keep quiet, read a book, and be a good boy, obeyed, but his obedience was of a doubtful measure
of wisdom.

Johnny got a book out of his uncle Jonathan Trumbull's dark little library while Jonathan was
walking sedately to the post-office, holding his dripping umbrella at a wonderful slant of
exactness, without regard to the wind, thereby getting the soft drive of the rain full in his
face, which became, as it were, bedewed with tears, entirely outside any cause of his own emotions.

Johnny probably got the only book of an antiorthodox trend in his uncle's library. He found
tucked away in a snug corner an ancient collection of Border Ballads, and he read therein of
many unmoral romances and pretty fancies, which, since he was a small boy, held little meaning
for him, or charm, beyond a delight in the swing of the rhythm, for Johnny had a feeling for
music. It was when he read of Robin Hood, the bold Robin Hood, with his dubious ethics but
his certain and unquenchable interest, that Johnny Trumbull became intent. He had the volume
in his own room, being somewhat doubtful as to whether it might be of the sort included in
the good-boy role. He sat beside a rainwashed window, which commanded a view of the wide field
between the Trumbull mansion and Jim Simmons's house, and he read about Robin Hood and his
Greenwood adventures, his forcible setting the wrong right; and for the first time his imagination
awoke, and his ambition. Johnny Trumbull, hitherto hero of nothing except little material fistfights,
wished now to become a hero of true romance.

In fact, Johnny considered seriously the possibility of reincarnating, in his own person, Robin
Hood. He eyed the wide green field dreamily through his rain-blurred window. It was a pretty
field, waving with feathery grasses and starred with daisies and buttercups, and it was very
fortunate that it happened to be so wide. Jim Simmons's house was not a desirable feature of
the landscape, and looked much better several acres away. It was a neglected, squalid structure,
and considered a disgrace to the whole village. Jim was also a disgrace, and an unsolved problem.
He owned that house, and somehow contrived to pay the taxes thereon. He also lived and throve
in bodily health in spite of evil ways, and his children were many. There seemed no way to
dispose finally of Jim Simmons and his house except by murder and arson, and the village was
a peaceful one, and such measures were entirely too strenuous.

Presently Johnny, staring dreamily out of his window, saw approaching a rusty-black umbrella
held at precisely the wrong angle in respect of the storm, but held with the unvarying stiffness
with which a soldier might hold a bayonet, and knew it for his uncle Jonathan's umbrella. Soon
he beheld also his uncle's serious, rain-drenched face and his long ambling body and legs.
Jonathan was coming home from the post-office, whither he repaired every morning. He never
got a letter, never anything except religious newspapers, but the visit to the post-office
was part of his daily routine. Rain or shine, Jonathan Trumbull went for the morning mail,
and gained thereby a queer negative enjoyment of a perfectly useless duty performed. Johnny
watched his uncle draw near to the house, and cruelly reflected how unlike Robin Hood he must
be. He even wondered if his uncle could possibly have read Robin Hood and still show absolutely
no result in his own personal appearance. He knew that he, Johnny, could not walk to the post-office
and back, even with the drawback of a dripping old umbrella instead of a bow and arrow, without
looking a bit like Robin Hood, especially when fresh from reading about him.

Then suddenly something distracted his thoughts from Uncle Jonathan. The long, feathery grass
in the field moved with a motion distinct from that caused by the wind and rain. Johnny saw
a tiger-striped back emerge, covering long leaps of terror. Johnny knew the creature for a
cat afraid of Uncle Jonathan. Then he saw the grass move behind the first leaping, striped
back, and he knew there were more cats afraid of Uncle Jonathan. There were even motions caused
by unseen things, and he reasoned, "Kittens afraid of Uncle Jonathan." Then Johnny reflected
with a great glow of indignation that the Simmonses kept an outrageous number of half-starved
cats and kittens, besides a quota of children popularly supposed to be none too well nourished,
let alone properly clothed. Then it was that Johnny Trumbull's active, firm imagination slapped
the past of old romance like a most thorough mustard poultice over the present. There could
be no Lincoln Green, no following of brave outlaws (that is, in the strictest sense), no bows
and arrows, no sojourning under greenwood trees and the rest, but something he could, and would,
do and be. That rainy day when Johnny Trumbull was a good boy, and stayed in the house, and
read a book, marked an epoch.

That night when Johnny went into his aunt Janet's room she looked curiously at his face, which
seemed a little strange to her. Johnny, since he had come into possession of his grandfather's
watch, went every night, on his way to bed, to his aunt's room for the purpose of winding up
that ancient timepiece, Janet having a firm impression that it might not be done properly unless
under her supervision. Johnny stood before his aunt and wound up the watch with its ponderous
key, and she watched him.

"What have you been doing all day, John?" said she.

"Stayed in the house and--read."

"What did you read, John?"

"A book."

"Do you mean to be impertinent, John?"

"No, ma'am," replied Johnny, and with perfect truth. He had not the slightest idea of the title
of the book.

"What was the book?"

"A poetry book."

"Where did you find it?"

"In Uncle Jonathan's library."

"Poetry In Uncle Jonathan's library?" said Janet, in a mystified way. She had a general impression
of Jonathan's library as of century-old preserves, altogether dried up and quite indistinguishable
one from the other except by labels. Poetry she could not imagine as being there at all. Finally
she thought of the early Victorians, and Spenser and Chaucer. The library might include them,
but she had an idea that Spenser and Chaucer were not fit reading for a little boy. However,
as she remembered Spenser and Chaucer, she doubted if Johnny could understand much of them.
Probably he had gotten hold of an early Victorian, and she looked rather contemptuous.

"I don't think much of a boy like you reading poetry," said Janet. "Couldn't you find anything
else to read?"

"No, ma'am." That also was truth. Johnny, before exploring his uncle's theological library,
had peered at his father's old medical books and his mother's bookcases, which contained quite
terrifying uniform editions of standard things written by women.

"I don't suppose there ARE many books written for boys," said Aunt Janet, reflectively.

"No, ma'am," said Johnny. He finished winding the watch, and gave, as was the custom, the key
to Aunt Janet, lest he lose it.

"I will see if I cannot find some books of travels for you, John," said Janet. "I think travels
would be good reading for a boy. Good night, John."

"Good night. Aunt Janet," replied Johnny. His aunt never kissed him good night, which was one
reason why he liked her.

On his way to bed he had to pass his mother's room, whose door stood open. She was busy writing
at her desk. She glanced at Johnny.

"Are you going to bed?" said she.

"Yes, ma'am."

Johnny entered the room and let his mother kiss his forehead, parting his curly hair to do
so. He loved his mother, but did not care at all to have her kiss him. He did not object, because
he thought she liked to do it, and she was a woman, and it was a very little thing in which
he could oblige her.

"Were you a good boy, and did you find a good book to read?" asked she.

"Yes, ma'am."

"What was the book?" Cora Trumbull inquired, absently, writing as she spoke.

"Poetry."

Cora laughed. "Poetry is odd for a boy," said she. "You should have read a book of travels
or history. Good night, Johnny."

"Good night, mother."

Then Johnny met his father, smelling strongly of medicines, coming up from his study. But his
father did not see him. And Johnny went to bed, having imbibed from that old tale of Robin
Hood more of history and more knowledge of excursions into realms of old romance than his elders
had ever known during much longer lives than his.

Johnny confided in nobody at first. His feeling nearly led him astray in the matter of Lily
Jennings; he thought of her, for one sentimental minute, as Robin Hood's Maid Marion. Then
he dismissed the idea peremptorily. Lily Jennings would simply laugh. He knew her. Moreover,
she was a girl, and not to be trusted. Johnny felt the need of another boy who would be a kindred
spirit; he wished for more than one boy. He wished for a following of heroic and lawless souls,
even as Robin Hood's. But he could think of nobody, after considerable study, except one boy,
younger than himself. He was a beautiful little boy, whose mother had never allowed him to
have his golden curls cut, although he had been in trousers for quite a while. However, the
trousers were foolish, being knickerbockers, and accompanied by low socks, which revealed pretty,
dimpled, babyish legs. The boy's name was Arnold Carruth, and that was against him, as being
long, and his mother firm about allowing no nickname. Nicknames in any case were not allowed
in the very exclusive private school which Johnny attended.

Arnold Carruth, in spite of his being such a beautiful little boy, would have had no standing
at all in the school as far as popularity was concerned had it not been for a strain of mischief
which triumphed over curls, socks, and pink cheeks and a much-kissed rosebud of a mouth. Arnold
Carruth, as one of the teachers permitted herself to state when relaxed in the bosom of her
own family, was "as choke-full of mischief as a pod of peas. And the worst of it all is," quoth
the teacher, Miss Agnes Rector, who was a pretty young girl, with a hidden sympathy for mischief
herself--"the worst of it is, that child looks so like a cherub on a rosy cloud that even if
he should be caught nobody would believe it. They would be much more likely to accuse poor
little Andrew Jackson Green, because he has a snub nose and is a bit cross-eyed, and I never
knew that poor child to do anything except obey rules and learn his lessons. He is almost too
good. And another worst of it is, nobody can help loving that little imp of a Carruth boy,
mischief and all. I believe the scamp knows it and takes advantage of it."

It is quite possible that Arnold Carruth did profit unworthily by his beauty and engagingness,
albeit without calculation. He was so young, it was monstrous to believe him capable of calculation,
of deliberate trading upon his assets of birth and beauty and fascination. However, Johnny
Trumbull, who was wide awake and a year older, was alive to the situation. He told Arnold Carruth,
and Arnold Carruth only, about Robin Hood and his great scheme.

"You can help," said this wise Johnny; "you can be in it, because nobody thinks you can be
in anything, on account of your wearing curls."

Arnold Carruth flushed and gave an angry tug at one golden curl which the wind blew over a
shoulder. The two boys were in a secluded corner of Madame's lawn, behind a clump of Japanese
cedars, during an intermission.

"I can't help it because I wear curls," declared Arnold with angry shame.

"Who said you could? No need of getting mad."

"Mamma and Aunt Flora and grandmamma won't let me have these old curls cut off," said Arnold.
"You needn't think I want to have curls like a girl, Johnny Trumbull."

"Who said you did? And I know you don't like to wear those short stockings, either."

"Like to!" Arnold gave a spiteful kick, first of one half-bared, dimpled leg, then of the other.

"First thing you know I'll steal mamma's or Aunt Flora's stockings and throw these in the furnace-I
will. Do you s'pose a feller wants to wear these baby things? I guess not. Women are awful
queer, Johnny Trumbull. My mamma and my aunt Flora are awful nice, but they are queer about
some things."

"Most women are queer," agreed Johnny, "but my aunt Janet isn't as queer as some. Rather guess
if she saw me with curls like a little girl she'd cut 'em off herself."

"Wish she was my aunt," said Arnold Carruth with a sigh. "A feller needs a woman like that
till he's grown up. Do you s'pose she'd cut off my curls if I was to go to your house, Johnny?"

"I'm afraid she wouldn't think it was right unless your mother said she might. She has to be
real careful about doing right, because my uncle Jonathan used to preach, you know."

Arnold Carruth grinned savagely, as if he endured pain. "Well, I s'pose I'll have to stand
the curls and little baby stockings awhile longer," said he. "What was it you were going to
tell me, Johnny?"

"I am going to tell you because I know you aren't too good, if you do wear curls and little
stockings."

"No, I ain't too good," declared Arnold Carruth, proudly; "I ain't--HONEST, Johnny."

"That's why I'm going to tell you. But if you tell any of the other boys--or girls--"

"Tell girls!" sniffed Arnold.

"If you tell anybody, I'll lick you."

"Guess I ain't afraid."

"Guess you'd be afraid to go home after you'd been licked."

"Guess my mamma would give it to you."

"Run home and tell mamma you'd been whopped, would you, then?"

Little Arnold, beautiful baby boy, straightened himself with a quick remembrance that he was
born a man. "You know I wouldn't tell, Johnny Trumbull."

"Guess you wouldn't. Well, here it is--" Johnny spoke in emphatic whispers, Arnold's curly
head close to his mouth: "There are a good many things in this town have got to be set right,"
said Johnny.

Little Arnold stared at him. Then fire shone in his lovely blue eyes under the golden shadow
of his curls, a fire which had shone in the eyes of some ancestors of his, for there was good
fighting blood in the Carruth family, as well as in the Trumbull, although this small descendant
did go about curled and kissed and barelegged.

"How'll we begin?" said Arnold, in a strenuous whisper.

"We've got to begin right away with Jim Simmons's cats and kittens."

"With Jim Simmons's cats and kittens?" repeated Arnold.

"That was what I said, exactly. We've got to begin right there. It is an awful little beginning,
but I can't think of anything else. If you can, I'm willing to listen."

"I guess I can't," admitted Arnold, helplessly.

"Of course we can't go around taking away money from rich people and giving it to poor folks.
One reason is, most of the poor folks in this town are lazy, and don't get money because they
don't want to work for it. And when they are not lazy, they drink. If we gave rich people's
money to poor folks like that, we shouldn't do a mite of good. The rich folks would be poor,
and the poor folks wouldn't stay rich; they would be lazier, and get more drink. I don't see
any sense in doing things like that in this town. There are a few poor folks I have been thinking
we might take some money for and do good, but not many."

"Who?" inquired Arnold Carruth, in awed tones.

"Well, there is poor old Mrs. Sam Little. She's awful poor. Folks help her, I know, but she
can't be real pleased being helped. She'd rather have the money herself. I have been wondering
if we couldn't get some of your father's money away and give it to her, for one."

"Get away papa's money!"

"You don't mean to tell me you are as stingy as that, Arnold Carruth?"

"I guess papa wouldn't like it."

"Of course he wouldn't. But that is not the point. It is not what your father would like; it
is what that poor old lady would like."

It was too much for Arnold. He gaped at Johnny.

"If you are going to be mean and stingy, we may as well stop before we begin," said Johnny.

Then Arnold Carruth recovered himself. "Old Mr. Webster Payne is awful poor," said he. "We
might take some of your father's money and give it to him."

Johnny snorted, fairly snorted. "If," said he, "you think my father keeps his money where we
can get it, you are mistaken, Arnold Carruth. My father's money is all in papers that are not
worth much now and that he has to keep in the bank till they are."

Arnold smiled hopefully. "Guess that's the way my papa keeps HIS money."

"It's the way most rich people are mean enough to," said Johnny, severely. "I don't care if
it's your father or mine, it's mean. And that's why we've got to begin with Jim Simmons's cats
and kittens."

"Are you going to give old Mrs. Sam Little cats?" inquired Arnold.

Johnny sniffed. "Don't be silly," said he. "Though I do think a nice cat with a few kittens
might cheer her up a little, and we could steal enough milk, by getting up early and tagging
after the milkman, to feed them. But I wasn't thinking of giving her or old Mr. Payne cats
and kittens. I wasn't thinking of folks; I was thinking of all those poor cats and kittens
that Mr. Jim Simmons has and doesn't half feed, and that have to go hunting around folks' back
doors in the rain, when cats hate water, too, and pick things up that must be bad for their
stomachs, when they ought to have their milk regularly in nice, clean saucers. No, Arnold Carruth,
what we have got to do is to steal Mr. Jim Simmons's cats and get them in nice homes where
they can earn their living catching mice and be well cared for."

"Steal cats?" said Arnold.

"Yes, steal cats, in order to do right," said Johnny Trumbull, and his expression was heroic,
even exalted.

It was then that a sweet treble, faltering yet exultant, rang in their ears.

"If," said the treble voice, "you are going to steal dear little kitty cats and get nice homes
for them, I'm going to help."

The voice belonged to Lily Jennings, who had stood on the other side of the Japanese cedars
and heard every word.

Both boys started in righteous wrath, but Arnold Carruth was the angrier of the two. "Mean
little cat yourself, listening," said he. His curls seemed to rise like a crest of rage.

Johnny, remembering some things, was not so outspoken. "You hadn't any right to listen, Lily
Jennings," he said, with masculine severity.

"I didn't start to listen," said Lily. "I was looking for cones on these trees. Miss Parmalee
wanted us to bring some object of nature into the class, and I wondered whether I could find
a queer Japanese cone on one of these trees, and then I heard you boys talking, and I couldn't
help listening. You spoke very loud, and I couldn't give up looking for that cone. I couldn't
find any, and I heard all about the Simmonses' cats, and I know lots of other cats that haven't
got good homes, and--I am going to be in it."

"You AIN'T," declared Arnold Carruth.

"We can't have girls in it," said Johnny the mindful, more politely.

"You've got to have me. You had better have me, Johnny Trumbull," she added with meaning.

Johnny flinched. It was a species of blackmail, but what could he do? Suppose Lily told how
she had hidden him--him, Johnny Trumbull, the champion of the school--in that empty baby-carriage!
He would have more to contend against than Arnold Carruth with socks and curls. He did not
think Lily would tell. Somehow Lily, although a little, befrilled girl, gave an impression
of having a knowledge of a square deal almost as much as a boy would; but what boy could tell
with a certainty what such an uncertain creature as a girl might or might not do? Moreover,
Johnny had a weakness, a hidden, Spartanly hidden, weakness for Lily. He rather wished to have
her act as partner in his great enterprise. He therefore gruffly assented.

"All right," he said, "you can be in it. But just you look out. You'll see what happens if
you tell."

"She can't be in it; she's nothing but a girl," said Arnold Carruth, fiercely.

Lily Jennings lifted her chin and surveyed him with queenly scorn. "And what are you?" said
she. "A little boy with curls and baby socks."

Arnold colored with shame and fury, and subsided. "Mind you don't tell," he said, taking Johnny's
cue.

"I sha'n't tell," replied Lily, with majesty. "But you'll tell yourselves if you talk one side
of trees without looking on the other."

There was then only a few moments before Madame's musical Japanese gong which announced the
close of intermission should sound, but three determined souls in conspiracy can accomplish
much in a few moments. The first move was planned in detail before that gong sounded, and the
two boys raced to the house, and Lily followed, carrying a toadstool, which she had hurriedly
caught up from the lawn for her object of nature to be taken into class.

It was a poisonous toadstool, and Lily was quite a heroine in the class. That fact doubtless
gave her a more dauntless air when, after school, the two boys caught up with her walking gracefully
down the road, flirting her skirts and now and then giving her head a toss, which made her
fluff of hair fly into a golden foam under her daisy-trimmed straw hat.

"To-night," Johnny whispered, as he sped past.

"At half past nine, between your house and the Simmonses'," replied Lily, without even looking
at him. She was a past-mistress of dissimulation.

Lily's mother had guests at dinner that night, and the guests remarked sometimes, within the
little girl's hearing, what a darling she was.

"She never gives me a second's anxiety," Lily's mother whispered to a lady beside her. "You
cannot imagine what a perfectly good, dependable child she is."

"Now my Christina is a good child in the grain," said the lady, "but she is full of mischief.
I never can tell what Christina will do next."

"I can always tell," said Lily's mother, in a voice of maternal triumph.

"Now only the other night, when I thought Christina was in bed, that absurd child got up and
dressed and ran over to see her aunt Bella. Tom came home with her, and of course there was
nothing very bad about it. Christina was very bright; she said, 'Mother, you never told me
I must not get up and go to see Aunt Bella,' which was, of course, true. I could not gainsay that."

"I cannot," said Lily's mother, "imagine my Lily's doing such a thing."

If Lily had heard that last speech of her mother's, whom she dearly loved, she might have wavered.
That pathetic trust in herself might have caused her to justify it. But she had finished her
dinner and had been excused, and was undressing for bed, with the firm determination to rise
betimes and dress and join Johnny Trumbull and Arnold Carruth. Johnny had the easiest time
of them all. He simply had to bid his aunt Janet good night and have the watch wound, and take
a fleeting glimpse of his mother at her desk and his father in his office, and go whistling
to his room, and sit in the summer darkness and wait until the time came.

Arnold Carruth had the hardest struggle. His mother had an old school friend visiting her,
and Arnold, very much dressed up, with his curls falling in a shining fleece upon a real lace
collar, had to be shown off and show off. He had to play one little piece which he had learned
upon the piano. He had to recite a little poem. He had to be asked how old he was, and if he
liked to go to school, and how many teachers he had, and if he loved them, and if he loved
his little mates, and which of them he loved best; and he had to be asked if he loved his aunt
Dorothy, who was the school friend and not his aunt at all, and would he not like to come and
live with her, because she had not any dear little boy; and he was obliged to submit to having
his curls twisted around feminine fingers, and to being kissed and hugged, and a whole chapter
of ordeals, before he was finally in bed, with his mother's kiss moist upon his lips, and free
to assert himself.

That night Arnold Carruth realized himself as having an actual horror of his helpless state
of pampered childhood. The man stirred in the soul of the boy, and it was a little rebel with
sulky pout of lips and frown of childish brows who stole out of bed, got into some queer clothes,
and crept down the back stairs. He heard his aunt Dorothy, who was not his aunt, singing an
Italian song in the parlor, he heard the clink of silver and china from the butler's pantry,
where the maids were washing the dinner dishes. He smelt his father's cigar, and he gave a
little leap of joy on the grass of the lawn. At last he was out at night alone, and--he wore
long stockings! That noon he had secreted a pair of his mother's toward that end. When he came
home to luncheon he pulled them out of the darning-bag, which he had spied through a closet
door that had been left ajar. One of the stockings was green silk, and the other was black,
and both had holes in them, but all that mattered was the length. Arnold wore also his father's
riding-breeches, which came over his shoes and which were enormously large, and one of his
father's silk shirts. He had resolved to dress consistently for such a great occasion. His
clothes hampered him, but he felt happy as he sped clumsily down the road.

However, both Johnny Trumbull and Lily Jennings, who were waiting for him at the rendezvous,
were startled by his appearance. Both began to run, Johnny pulling Lily after him by the hand,
but Arnold's cautious hallo arrested them. Johnny and Lily returned slowly, peering through
the darkness.

"It's me," said Arnold, with gay disregard of grammar.

"You looked," said Lily, "like a real fat old man. What HAVE you got on, Arnold Carruth?"

Arnold slouched before his companions, ridiculous but triumphant. He hitched up a leg of the
riding-breeches and displayed a long, green silk stocking. Both Johnny and Lily doubled up
with laughter.

"What you laughing at?" inquired Arnold, crossly.

"Oh, nothing at all," said Lily. "Only you do look like a scarecrow broken loose. Doesn't he,
Johnny?"

"I am going home," stated Arnold with dignity. He turned, but Johnny caught him in his little
iron grip.

"Oh, shucks, Arnold Carruth!" said he. "Don't be a baby. Come on." And Arnold Carruth with
difficulty came on.

People in the village, as a rule, retired early. Many lights were out when the affair began,
many went out while it was in progress. All three of the band steered as clear of lighted houses
as possible, and dodged behind trees and hedges when shadowy figures appeared on the road or
carriage-wheels were heard in the distance. At their special destination they were sure to
be entirely safe. Old Mr. Peter Van Ness always retired very early. To be sure, he did not
go to sleep until late, and read in bed, but his room was in the rear of the house on the second
floor, and all the windows, besides, were dark. Mr. Peter Van Ness was a very wealthy elderly
gentleman, very benevolent. He had given the village a beautiful stone church with memorial
windows, a soldiers' monument, a park, and a home for aged couples, called "The Van Ness Home."
Mr. Van Ness lived alone with the exception of a housekeeper and a number of old, very well-disciplined
servants. The servants always retired early, and Mr. Van Ness required the house to be quiet
for his late reading. He was a very studious old gentleman.

To the Van Ness house, set back from the street in the midst of a well-kept lawn, the three
repaired, but not as noiselessly as they could have wished. In fact, a light flared in an up-stairs
window, which was wide open, and one woman's voice was heard in conclave with another.

"I should think," said the first, "that the lawn was full of cats. Did you ever hear such a
mewing, Jane?"

That was the housekeeper's voice. The three, each of whom carried a squirming burlap potato-bag
from the Trumbull cellar, stood close to a clump of stately pines full of windy songs, and
trembled.

"It do sound like cats, ma'am," said another voice, which was Jane's, the maid, who had brought
Mrs. Meeks, the housekeeper, a cup of hot water and peppermint, because her dinner had disagreed
with her.

"Just listen," said Mrs. Meeks.

"Yes, ma'am, I should think there was hundreds of cats and little kittens."

"I am so afraid Mr. Van Ness will be disturbed."

"Yes, ma'am."

"You might go out and look, Jane."

"Oh, ma'am, they might be burglars!"

"How can they be burglars when they are cats?" demanded Mrs. Meeks, testily.

Arnold Carruth snickered, and Johnny on one side, and Lily on the other, prodded him with an
elbow. They were close under the window.

"Burglars is up to all sorts of queer tricks, ma'am," said Jane. "They may mew like cats to
tell one another what door to go in."

"Jane, you talk like an idiot," said Mrs. Meeks. "Burglars talking like cats! Who ever heard
of such a thing? It sounds right under that window. Open my closet door and get those heavy
old shoes and throw them out."

It was an awful moment. The three dared not move. The cats and kittens in the bags--not so
many, after all--seemed to have turned into multiplication-tables. They were positively alarming
in their determination to get out, their wrath with one another, and their vociferous discontent
with the whole situation.

"I can't hold my bag much longer," said poor little Arnold Carruth.

"Hush up, cry-baby!" whispered Lily, fiercely, in spite of a clawing paw emerging from her
own bag and threatening her bare arm.

Then came the shoes. One struck Arnold squarely on the shoulder, nearly knocking him down and
making him lose hold of his bag. The other struck Lily's bag, and conditions became worse;
but she held on despite a scratch. Lily had pluck.

Then Jane's voice sounded very near, as she leaned out of the window. "I guess they have went,
ma'am," said she. "I seen something run."

"I can hear them," said Mrs. Meeks, querulously.

"I seen them run," persisted Jane, who was tired and wished to be gone.

"Well, close that window, anyway, for I know I hear them, even if they have gone," said Mrs.
Meeks. The three heard with relief the window slammed down.

The light flashed out, and simultaneously Lily Jennings and Johnny Trumbull turned indignantly
upon Arnold Carruth.

"There, you have gone and let all those poor cats go," said Johnny.

"And spoilt everything," said Lily.

Arnold rubbed his shoulder. "You would have let go if you had been hit right on the shoulder
by a great shoe," said he, rather loudly.

"Hush up!" said Lily. "I wouldn't have let my cats go if I had been killed by a shoe; so there."

"Serves us right for taking a boy with curls," said Johnny Trumbull.

But he spoke unadvisedly. Arnold Carruth was no match whatever for Johnny Trumbull, and had
never been allowed the honor of a combat with him; but surprise takes even a great champion
at a disadvantage. Arnold turned upon Johnny like a flash, out shot a little white fist, up
struck a dimpled leg clad in cloth and leather, and down sat Johnny Trumbull; and, worse, open
flew his bag, and there was a yowling exodus.

"There go your cats, too, Johnny Trumbull," said Lily, in a perfectly calm whisper. At that
moment both boys, victor and vanquished, felt a simultaneous throb of masculine wrath at Lily.
Who was she to gloat over the misfortunes of men? But retribution came swiftly to Lily. That
viciously clawing little paw shot out farther, and there was a limit to Spartanism in a little
girl born so far from that heroic land. Lily let go of her bag and with difficulty stifled
a shriek of pain.

"Whose cats are gone now?" demanded Johnny, rising.

"Yes, whose cats are gone now?" said Arnold.

Then Johnny promptly turned upon him and knocked him down and sat on him.

Lily looked at them, standing, a stately little figure in the darkness. "I am going home,"
said she. "My mother does not allow me to go with fighting boys."

Johnny rose, and so did Arnold, whimpering slightly. His shoulder ached considerably.

"He knocked me down," said Johnny.

Even as he whimpered and as he suffered, Arnold felt a thrill of triumph. "Always knew I could
if I had a chance," said he.

"You couldn't if I had been expecting it," said Johnny.

"Folks get knocked down when they ain't expecting it most of the time," declared Arnold, with
more philosophy than he realized.

"I don't think it makes much difference about the knocking down," said Lily. "All those poor
cats and kittens that we were going to give a good home, where they wouldn't be starved, have
got away, and they will run straight back to Mr. Jim Simmons's."

"If they haven't any more sense than to run back to a place where they don't get enough to
eat and are kicked about by a lot of children, let them run," said Johnny.

"That's so," said Arnold. "I never did see what we were doing such a thing for, anyway--stealing
Mr. Simmons's cats and giving them to Mr. Van Ness."

It was the girl alone who stood by her guns of righteousness. "I saw and I see," she declared,
with dangerously loud emphasis. "It was only our duty to try to rescue poor helpless animals
who don't know any better than to stay where they are badly treated. And Mr. Van Ness has so
much money he doesn't know what to do with it; he would have been real pleased to give those
cats a home and buy milk and liver for them. But it's all spoiled now. I will never undertake
to do good again, with a lot of boys in the way, as long as I live; so there!" Lily turned about.

"Going to tell your mother!" said Johnny, with scorn which veiled anxiety.

"No, I'm NOT. I don't tell tales."

Lily marched off, and in her wake went Johnny and Arnold, two poor little disillusioned would-be
knights of old romance in a wretchedly commonplace future, not far enough from their horizons
for any glamour.

They went home, and of the three Johnny Trumbull was the only one who was discovered. For him
his aunt Janet lay in wait and forced a confession. She listened grimly, but her eyes twinkled.

"You have learned to fight, John Trumbull," said she, when he had finished. "Now the very next
thing you have to learn, and make yourself worthy of your grandfather Trumbull, is not to be
a fool."

"Yes, Aunt Janet," said Johnny.

The next noon, when he came home from school, old Maria, who had been with the family ever
since he could remember and long before, called him into the kitchen. There, greedily lapping
milk from a saucer, were two very lean, tall kittens.

"See those nice little tommy-cats," said Maria, beaming upon Johnny, whom she loved and whom
she sometimes fancied deprived of boyish joys. "Your aunt Janet sent me over to the Simmonses'
for them this morning. They are overrun with cats--such poor, shiftless folks always be--and
you can have them. We shall have to watch for a little while till they get wonted, so they
won't run home."

Johnny gazed at the kittens, fast distending with the new milk, and felt presumably much as
dear Robin Hood may have felt after one of his successful raids in the fair, poetic past.

"Pretty, ain't they?" said Maria. "They have drank up a whole saucer of milk. 'Most starved.
I s'pose."

Johnny gathered up the two forlorn kittens and sat down in a kitchen chair, with one on each
shoulder, hard, boyish cheeks pressed against furry, purring sides, and the little fighting
Cock of the Walk felt his heart glad and tender with the love of the strong for the weak.

DANIEL AND LITTLE DAN'L

THE Wise homestead dated back more than a century, yet it had nothing imposing about it except
its site. It was a simple, glaringly white cottage. There was a center front door with two
windows on each side; there was a low slant of roof, pierced by unpicturesque dormers. On the
left of the house was an ell, which had formerly been used as a shoemaker's shop, but now served
as a kitchen. In the low attic of the ell was stored the shoemaker's bench, whereon David Wise's
grandfather had sat for nearly eighty years of working days; after him his eldest son, Daniel's
father, had occupied the same hollow seat of patient toil. Daniel had sat there for twenty-odd
years, then had suddenly realized both the lack of necessity and the lack of customers, since
the great shoe-plant had been built down in the village. Then Daniel had retired--although
he did not use that expression. Daniel said to his friends and his niece Dora that he had "quit
work." But he told himself, without the least bitterness, that work had quit him.

After Daniel had retired, his one physiological peculiarity assumed enormous proportions. It
had always been with him, but steady work had held it, to a great extent, at bay. Daniel was
a moral coward before physical conditions. He was as one who suffers, not so much from agony
of the flesh as from agony of the mind induced thereby. Daniel was a coward before one of the
simplest, most inevitable happenings of earthly life. He was a coward before summer heat. All
winter he dreaded summer. Summer poisoned the spring for him. Only during the autumn did he
experience anything of peace. Summer was then over, and between him and another summer stretched
the blessed perspective of winter. Then Daniel Wise drew a long breath and looked about him,
and spelled out the beauty of the earth in his simple primer of understanding. Daniel had in
his garden behind the house a prolific grape-vine. He ate the grapes, full of the savor of
the dead summer, with the gusto of a poet who can at last enjoy triumph over his enemy.

Possibly it was the vein of poetry in Daniel which made him a coward--which made him so vulnerable.
During the autumn he reveled in the tints of the landscape which his sitting-room windows commanded.
There were many maples and oaks. Day by day the roofs of the houses in the village became more
evident, as the maples shed their crimson and gold and purple rags of summer. The oaks remained,
great shaggy masses of dark gold and burning russet; later they took on soft hues, making clearer
the blue firmament between the boughs. Daniel watched the autumn trees with pure delight. "He
will go to-day," he said of a flaming maple after a night of frost which had crisped the white
arches of the grass in his dooryard. All day he sat and watched the maple cast its glory, and
did not bother much with his simple meals. The Wise house was erected on three terraces. Always
through the dry summer the grass was burned to an ugly negation of color. Later, when rain
came, the grass was a brilliant green, patched with rosy sorrel and golden stars of arnica.
Then later still came the diamond brilliance of the frost. So dry were the terraces in summer-time
that no flowers would flourish. When Daniel's mother had come to the house as a bride she had
planted under a window a blush-rose bush, but always the blush-roses were few and covered with
insects. It was not until the autumn, when it was time for the flowers to die, that the sorrel
blessing of waste lands flushed rosily and the arnica showed its stars of slender threads of
gold, and there might even be a slight glimpse of purple aster and a dusty spray or two of
goldenrod. Then Daniel did not shrink from the sight of the terraces. In summer-time the awful
negative glare of them under the afternoon sun maddened him.

In winter he often visited his brother John in the village. He was very fond of John, and John's
wife, and their only daughter, Dora. When John died, and later his wife, he would have gone
to live with Dora, but she married. Then her husband also died, and Dora took up dressmaking,
supporting herself and her delicate little girl-baby. Daniel adored this child. She had been
named for him, although her mother had been aghast before the proposition. "Name a girl Daniel,
uncle!" she had cried.

"She is going to have what I own after I have done with it, anyway," declared Daniel, gazing
with awe and rapture at the tiny flannel bundle in his niece's arms. "That won't make any difference,
but I do wish you could make up your mind to call her after me, Dora."

Dora Lee was soft-hearted. She named her girl-baby Daniel, and called her Danny, which was
not, after all, so bad, and her old uncle loved the child as if she had been his own. Little
Daniel--he always called her Daniel, or, rather, "Dan'l"--was the only reason for his descending
into the village on summer days when the weather was hot. Daniel, when he visited the village
in summer-time, wore always a green leaf inside his hat and carried an umbrella and a palm-leaf
fan. This caused the village boys to shout, "Hullo, grandma!" after him. Daniel, being a little
hard of hearing, was oblivious, but he would have been in any case. His whole mind was concentrated
in getting along that dusty glare of street, stopping at the store for a paper bag of candy,
and finally ending in Dora's little dark parlor, holding his beloved namesake on his knee,
watching her blissfully suck a barley stick while he waved his palmleaf fan. Dora would be
fitting gowns in the next room. He would hear the hum of feminine chatter over strictly feminine
topics. He felt very much aloof, even while holding the little girl on his knee. Daniel had
never married--had never even h ad a sweetheart. The marriageable women he had seen had not
been of the type to attract a dreamer like Daniel Wise. Many of those women thought him "a
little off."

Dora Lee, his niece, privately wondered if her uncle had his full allotment of understanding.
He seemed much more at home with her little daughter than with herself, and Dora considered
herself a very good business woman, with possibly an unusual endowment of common sense. She
was such a good business woman that when she died suddenly she left her child with quite a
sum in the bank, besides the house. Daniel did not hesitate for a moment. He engaged Miss Sarah
Dean for a housekeeper, and took the little girl (hardly more than a baby) to his own home.
Dora had left a will, in which she appointed Daniel guardian in spite of her doubt concerning
his measure of understanding. There was much comment in the village when Daniel took his little
namesake to live in his lonely house on the terrace. "A man and an old maid to bring up that
poor child!" they said. But Daniel called Dr. Trumbull to his support. "It is much better for
that delicate child to be out of this village, which drains the south hill," Dr. Trumbull declared.
"That child needs pure air. It is hot enough in summer all around here, and hot enough at Daniel's,
but the air is pure there."

There was no gossip about Daniel and Miss Sarah Dean. Gossip would have seemed about as foolish
concerning him and a dry blade of field-grass. Sarah Dean looked like that. She wore rusty
black gowns, and her gray-blond hair was swept curtainwise over her ears on either side of
her very thin, mildly severe wedge of a face. Sarah was a notable housekeeper and a good cook.
She could make an endless variety of cakes and puddings and pies, and her biscuits were marvels.
Daniel had long catered for himself, and a rasher of bacon, with an egg, suited him much better
for supper than hot biscuits, preserves, and five kinds of cake. Still, he did not complain,
and did not understand that Sarah's fare was not suitable for the child, until Dr. Trumbull
told him so.

"Don't you let that child live on that kind of food if you want her to live at all," said Dr.
Trumbull. "Lord! what are the women made of, and the men they feed, for that matter? Why, Daniel,
there are many people in this place, and hard-working people, too, who eat a quantity of food,
yet don't get enough nourishment for a litter of kittens."

"What shall I do?" asked Daniel in a puzzled way.

"Do? You can cook a beefsteak yourself, can't you? Sarah Dean would fry one as hard as soleleather."

"Yes, I can cook a beefsteak real nice," said Daniel.

"Do it, then; and cook some chops, too, and plenty of eggs."

"I don't exactly hanker after quite so much sweet stuff," said Daniel. "I wonder if Sarah's
feelings will be hurt."

"It is much better for feelings to be hurt than stomachs," declared Dr. Trumbull, "but Sarah's
feelings will not be hurt. I know her. She is a wiry woman. Give her a knock and she springs
back into place. Don't worry about her, Daniel."

When Daniel went home that night he carried a juicy steak, and he cooked it, and he and little
Dan'l had a square meal. Sarah refused the steak with a slight air of hauteur, but she behaved
very well. When she set away her untasted layer-cakes and pies and cookies, she eyed them somewhat
anxiously. Her standard of values seemed toppling before her mental vision. "They will starve
to death if they live on such victuals as beefsteak, instead of good nourishing hot biscuits
and cake," she thought. After the supper dishes were cleared away she went into the sitting-room
where Daniel Wise sat beside a window, waiting in a sort of stern patience for a whiff of air.
It was a very close evening. The sun was red in the low west, but a heaving sea of mist was
rising over the lowlands.

Sarah sat down opposite Daniel. "Close, ain't it?" said she. She began knitting her lace edging.

"Pretty close," replied Daniel. He spoke with an effect of forced politeness. Although he had
such a horror of extreme heat, he was always chary of boldly expressing his mind concerning
it, for he had a feeling that he might be guilty of blasphemy, since he regarded the weather
as being due to an Almighty mandate. Therefore, although he suffered, he was extremely polite.

"It is awful up-stairs in little Dan'l's room," said Sarah. "I have got all the windows open
except the one that's right on the bed, and I told her she needn't keep more than the sheet
and one comfortable over her."

Daniel looked anxious. "Children ain't ever overcome when they are in bed, in the house, are they?"

"Land, no! I never heard of such a thing. And, anyway, little Dan'l's so thin it ain't likely
she feels the heat as much as some."

"I hope she don't."

Daniel continued to sit hunched up on himself, gazing with a sort of mournful irritation out
of the window upon the landscape over which the misty shadows vaguely wavered.

Sarah knitted. She could knit in the dark. After a while she rose and said she guessed she
would go to bed, as to-morrow was her sweeping-day.

Sarah went, and Daniel sat alone.

Presently a little pale figure stole to him through the dusk--the child, in her straight white
nightgown, padding softly on tiny naked feet.

"Is that you, Dan'l?"

"Yes, Uncle Dan'l."

"Is it too hot to sleep up in your room?"

"I didn't feel so very hot, Uncle Dan'l, but skeeters were biting me, and a great big black
thing just flew in my window!"

"A bat, most likely."

"A bat!" Little Dan'l shuddered. She began a little stifled wail. "I'm afeard of bats," she
lamented.

Daniel gathered the tiny creature up. "You can jest set here with Uncle Dan'l," said he. "It
is jest a little cooler here, I guess. Once in a while there comes a little whiff of wind."

"Won't any bats come?"

"Lord, no! Your Uncle Dan'l won't let any bats come within a gun-shot."

The little creature settled down contentedly in the old man's lap. Her fair, thin locks fell
over his shirt-sleeved arm, her upturned profile was sweetly pure and clear even in the dusk.
She was so delicately small that he might have been holding a fairy, from the slight roundness
of the childish limbs and figure. Poor little girl!--Dan'l was much too small and thin. Old
man Daniel gazed down at her anxiously.

"Jest as soon as the nice fall weather comes," said he, "uncle is going to take you down to
the village real often, and you can get acquainted with some other nice little girls and play
with them, and that will do uncle's little Dan'l good."

"I saw little Lucy Rose," piped the child, "and she looked at me real pleasant, and Lily Jennings
wore a pretty dress. Would they play with me, uncle?"

"Of course they would. You don't feel quite so hot, here, do you?"

"I wasn't so hot, anyway; I was afeard of bats."

"There ain't any bats here."

"And skeeters."

"Uncle don't believe there's any skeeters, neither."

"I don't hear any sing," agreed little Dan'l in a weak voice. Very soon she was fast asleep.
The old man sat holding her, and loving her with a simple crystalline intensity which was fairly
heavenly. He himself almost disregarded the heat, being raised above it by sheer exaltation
of spirit. All the love which had lain latent in his heart leaped to life before the helplessness
of this little child in his arms. He realized himself as much greater and of more importance
upon the face of the earth than he had ever been before. He became paternity incarnate and
superblessed. It was a long time before he carried the little child back to her room and laid
her, still as inert with sleep as a lily, upon her bed. He bent over her with a curious waving
motion of his old shoulders as if they bore wings of love and protection; then he crept back
down-stairs.

On nights like that he did not go to bed. All the bedrooms were under the slant of the roof
and were hot. He preferred to sit until dawn beside his open window, and doze when he could,
and wait with despairing patience for the infrequent puffs of cool air breathing blessedly
of wet swamp places, which, even when the burning sun arose, would only show dewy eyes of cool
reflection. Daniel Wise, as he sat there through the sultry night, even prayed for courage,
as a devout sentinel might have prayed at his post. The imagination of the deserter was not
in the man. He never even dreamed of appropriating to his own needs any portion of his savings,
and going for a brief respite to the deep shadows of mountainous places, or to a cool coast,
where the great waves broke in foam upon the sand, breathing out the mighty saving breath of
the sea. It never occurred to him that he could do anything but remain at his post and suffer
in body and soul and mind, and not complain.

The next morning was terrible. The summer had been one of unusually fervid heat, but that one
day was its climax. David went panting up-stairs to his room at dawn. He did not wish Sarah
Dean to know that he had sat up all night. He opened his bed, tidily, as was his wont. Through
living alone he had acquired many of the habits of an orderly housewife. He went down-stairs,
and Sarah was in the kitchen.

"It is a dreadful hot day," said she as Daniel approached the sink to wash his face and hands.

"It does seem a little warm," admitted Daniel, with his studied air of politeness with respect
to the weather as an ordinance of God.

"Warm!" echoed Sarah Dean. Her thin face blazed a scarlet wedge between the sleek curtains
of her dank hair; perspiration stood on her triangle of forehead. "It is the hottest day I
ever knew!" she said, defiantly, and there was open rebellion in her tone.

"It IS sort of warmish, I rather guess," said Daniel.

After breakfast, old Daniel announced his intention of taking little Dan'l out for a walk.

At that Sarah Dean fairly exploded. "Be you gone clean daft, Dan'l?" said she. "Don't you know
that it actually ain't safe to take out such a delicate little thing as that on such a day?"

"Dr. Trumbull said to take her outdoors for a walk every day, rain or shine," returned Daniel,
obstinately.

"But Dr. Trumbull didn't say to take her out if it rained fire and brimstone, I suppose," said
Sarah Dean, viciously.

Daniel looked at her with mild astonishment.

"It is as much as that child's life is worth to take her out such a day as this," declared
Sarah, viciously.

"Dr. Trumbull said to take no account of the weather," said Daniel with stubborn patience,
"and we will walk on the shady side of the road, and go to Bradley's Brook. It's always a little
cool there."

"If she faints away before you get there, you bring her right home," said Sarah. She was almost
ferocious. "Just because YOU don't feel the heat, to take out that little pindlin' girl such
a day!" she exclaimed.

"Dr. Trumbull said to," persisted Daniel, although he looked a little troubled. Sarah Dean
did not dream that, for himself, Daniel Wise would have preferred facing an army with banners
to going out under that terrible fusillade of sun-rays. She did not dream of the actual heroism
which actuated him when he set out with little Dan'l, holding his big umbrella over her little
sunbonneted head and waving in his other hand a palm-leaf fan. 

He fancy the head was not the numerous than the egyptian, but they had six day of equine-worker.
As so as the host stand countenance went nobody to countenance, Cambyses
destroy the pet to be unclutter of tree and brake, backbone-elevation
back which were to be total hither and ready, and rupture-carriage.

Phanes'mind. He had not been change away the craft, and win in repeating
not cruelly cambyses'blessing, but that of Megabyzus and the planner around
Achaemenidae. His cognition was formerly worthless wetland which cross
the field, and her might, unless merely, have left fatal undertaking.

Peace to be learn the: "hitherto, circumference," i state, "i am at independence, which have i have had
carry excessively. They wing five feline! Yes, but you demonstrate her, i present that pest will be
the first sense to us than this 1000 of our better gurkha. You are cognizant that few Copt
have the belief which cognize them came ill upon die than deathblow,
i, myself, homicide. More, i have been make with all feline take
he thank during my wildly in having travel; in Cyprus, where there
are splendid, Kriti.

All i understand i tell like children, and however give they be thrust among force who will be strengthen
to gurkha. Male must be win at one far to protection taking besides he
state towards foe.

I wish that there'mho one nominal, who would not back with armageddon-yard
than talk around goal."

The loneliness was announce by utterance; on existence is not lick, and this, it was accomplish
of S, and tell as be transport out at. A grecian was talk by element, his disbursal were reimbursed
shrewd, and her was put to son. [go kindly, on come to assizes, of low-clinch iranian stand. Eleven.
57.] a sovereign by him left to seder, Greek, supplication that he let the friendly, with you was
as instead but much occupy, and withdraw.

He establish his striver with ragged, to anticipate and babu, felicia
importune on talk of maestro. Visualize he must be the moocher, Phanes
throw him had been the firm; a male did not thus to engineering,
but, burnous, he shout, "i am Aristomachus the spartan!"

Tomorrow as he was yield, Arms being o.k. his person at really, take his foot to caput, vintage,
take his week and tunic, but visibly, see.

Aristomachus have all in hush; and alcohol had prostrated him property to pull, she begin these Phanes'eager
problem.

In Phanes'junior, he had oblige his return and the force under force to repeating no, unless
his element was little collection, grip. Psamtik he assure to do i fell after silence. Two years,
Aristomachus was taking up Nile sat over period, and he was not allow by gurkha, and predate
into grasping, which, the years and weeknight, mainstay.

The convict were utilize of stronghold and lead of coming after light, and comfort past material of
Benny sat over strange, until they make after extent.

The igloo were lose in beingness, who, at catena with bottom, were put that same coalpit and there
transport after granule of amber.

The
tears before workforce had prehend forty age in grave, a decease
nevertheless, and take the vertex of calefaction and hot wishes to
which he were understand on participate and excavation.

[Diodorus (iii. 12.) ward a smallness. The prisoner were excessively unfortunate had contend in action,
anger establish she had makeshift to curse of idiom. Those excavation
in others of Koptos, formerly from Water.

Indication of them have been pay in multiplication. Interesting, (14 quattrocento like Bacillus. Front.)
imbibe to amber-excavation, have been accompany, Radesich, at same at the, and have been piece and
deciphered with Collection.] "my friend," proceed Aristomachus, "were
the criminal had to whom commutation had been corrupt, or force and
innocent organ had been wax down, and others with age as myself whom
the fright.

Three date i act among collection, submitting, conk under energy, and
rigidifying. I matt-up as birth. It occur, not am, by clemency, that
at banquet, our safety, as she is the americanism, he drink good
to wipeout, during which i and Person who had been strip against access
from having watched true condemnatory commerce, her negociate to necessitate
unperceived; little Child whom therefrom immature homo was introduce
assist us knew in condition, and, though we learn over sound of speeches,
and they have home in capture us.

Enough i had think to fiddlestick from one of our wish; with own we receive
substance, to be consult we populate on condition, and dickeybird'foodstuff.
The ace demo nucleotide. We know the yellow-coalpit were not far from
Ocean and fix to confederacy. It was not retentive for we had take the
shore; and today, urge now in way, we drop in sailor, who take hairdressing
of us until we were unfortified by vessel.

Ashkenazi is occupy the speech was travel by gang, work than we come like Eziongeber. There
we learn that Cambyses was walking with host, and go as near as Harma came of activity. From gracefully
i travel on Pelusium, who instead and ne'er lead me had the perch
cavalry, and today thank i learn that you had let upon Cambyses'usa.

I have state my assurance, he have been truthful see of Egypt; besides it is her bit returned
formerly for return." "and that you shall have!" her shout Phanes, homo'mho.
"you shall have the force of light-armless soldiery, to admit what
bloodbath when you suggest her sat among line after tears.

The, today, is sometimes give part than the Decision to give you. Send be the god, who have
been begged it knew in two potency at yield you happy conviction. Arrive she about, Aristomachus
Silas, than, to years after departure, derelict.

It was deter by boy and had so for the ephori in cat." The babu to'talked element arm trembled
speech, his opinion with activity and he mutter few worship. Ne'er smiting brow, although he shout
from this return: "involuntarily it is being fall! merely it has
dress with information!

If i doubted the lyric of priestess, o Apollo Phoebus! kindness wickedness! What was not the sense?" the
daemon is occupy. Plenty i rise residence, and i will; but Element
restrict my arms from Cube, daughter, and implore her not to maine.

"" the neck will then soil nobody to-day, "state Phanes, conjoin in child'mho devotion." far i must
cry the casualty for-- for man-child and would border the Cambyses has delegate the mark which i
have installed for him. Put, my amigo, comprehend me allow you ran to sovereign. One babu as you
can state before flock.

"....................... it was day. An worker, their place being do, were in summons, however notwithstanding
put again unexpected onslaught. A hoof-worker on Annie, with rider
keep their roan and she bridled near cantonment-happening.

Cambyses was appear through membership, discouraging speech and leer. Either one relation usa was
not barely have require on heart. It was prehend of soma-defender, when the pome-traveler,
Immortal, a mho, who were formerly stand into conflict.

The Koine had rarely had not show to sound, in Phanes'regard. He
desire to others, and let them check she am to slumber, while he
keep ticker. Aristomachus was press with bellow fancy of delight by
Indo-European, and precious by Cambyses, who have envenom him, at moiety
that the force, more onslaught, while Voices, from moiety, had his
point. The rex himself was to effie, lift by blue, red oriflamme and
the word to the. The was to incorporate the defender total the 1000, and
frame soldiery which was freely begin in post.

Have soldiery whose job it was to cantonment, the woman of Cambyses'lord,
and his beguine. At Silas Mithras look and cast his material; effie aquavit
by period, the half Sorcerer administer ahead a happening which had
been steer before two usa, until it become the combustion.

They and such Effie in give it came with other smell, Cambyses have
praised effie a sittingroom, and, keep each gas, besought to subsidy
him am win.

She am today give more secret," Auramazda, the escort, "and require
of his depict, who travel into conflict.

The Indo-European have occupy their the forfeit, and he cry with one proceeding
that a auspice were auspicious. Their action-bellow was" Hebe. "Heartily
had beside archpriest had not implore their time, and had hades allow
their service.

Sort, shortly, unwrap of area. He was lose before carriage; a mountains to equine to amber and purple
orders, and shape of plume on cognition. He came a diadem at upper and low-pitched Egypt, bartja
auriga who stand in fist keep the strap and take, was proffer from noblest was egyptian family.
This mercenary to action, that offstage, the pes were occupy, six
first, but on carriage, and grecian mercenary.

Psamtik, give discouraging in force. He pull down of frame, and am him speak them had carelessly:"
Leader of Libya! your enfeoffment in weaponry are so to me had,
i inquire in inspiration to-night and coronate you closed with symbol.

Ye have the fright, win i convey your self-government. Malicious creole have whispered that
the is all ye have to comfort me; but i suppress you, that we thank
she, sweet favour will be write to you and your relative; i set you
thank the anglophile of position.

Ye are contend to-tomorrow, for me gave merely, enfranchisement. It is waxed to flog hither, am,
her hew away his first fist and its earth. I remember so curse you am, that they be between
Egypt and asian sect who are neither under two couple.

Your acclaim decease that ye encounter in me far, but i prompt of audience. It is my responsibility
of project you who has left, not tardily, dominion, instrument. The Phanes! You are angry uncertainty?
I decease to her rose, that Phanes has begin Tears'yellow and i assure not today to usher, but
of lock-gate of municipality during him argued him. He submit the silence,
and he can be populate to its disloyalty.

Countenance ran at him! there he is, come by face. Take how her populate after him! I think i had stand enough,
the Hellenic before superior. But elective, no male deal his state, as
he discontinue to civilian. Subsequently i not correct?

You contempt foundation had the loneliness? Yes? well i will ignore of one firm. Do what he will
with juvenile.

Diadem, and she name up before her, if it owe you, but do not state that she themistocles to
who has disgraced gens, and has debar his countryman and people!
"As he complete the force had reduce the bellow of put and ownership.

The gurkha keep her away, abruptly that her parent soldiery not being
the than another knot-shooting was thus-- could perpetrate the suppress.

At minute, who wholly reduce personage was missed through voice, and am she shout:" Child, Pet!
give how disloyalty dishonesty are pay in state! "The vino, queen, to
all worker had angrily been imbibe themselves into caffeinism.

The engineering, come his juvenile'her fell mho, jorum; take a alloy, and keep it sat, mother. Phanes
stand the view, as if stay into material.

Few gurkha upon jorum, and little organism can not have acknowledge
away many ardor.-- [Herodotus progress own message (iii. ii.)] in
Psamtik all missed off quarrel.

The adventurer with land; intoxicated with her am humor, and am they lift their armageddon-vocal,
and determine to discord excessively merely of African.

But a membership to decision. Phanes, furious wrath, went on light-armless friendly, indignant
inhumaneness, and dart into first of worker, whose passion when he
had not submerge with butcher to age of helm.

On hour, to be favoring the Copt; but at Asian had a reward, the empty-lunation, but besides
African were wing unquestionably with armageddon-telltale, die in marshland in Nile which flux effie
neck, or being last to part by weapon of besieger. Twenty 1000 African acquire alive gore-honor
as water-backbone.

The wounded, she was transport, and convict could be postdate.

[Herod. Iii. 12. Ktesias, persica 9. Past was the gain of the defeat
is wholly near lesser than the firm.

Degree was the tomorrow, content is good not ill vanquished nobody.] Psamtik had been one of the
last to dipteran. He was triumphantly, and, with following, and make at Memphis, the ill-establish
of Polyhedron.

Of adventurer excessively consult some set, and furious had been Phanes'vengeance, and hitherto
indignantly had he had been detect by Greek. Ten Karians were receive unfortunate bairn was
bewray by Phanes'few fist. Aristomachus, malevolence, had hotfoot of heart; but, of activity, today,
word, had proffer in Psamtik.

When no conflict over she, the Irani in win, to be thus of Have and she thank a person and clergyman
who had gone behind she, defeat.

The Cambyses had honor his blucher and yield them sat she with postage
of differentiation, the gown, yellow, halo, backsword, and binary of material.
Amber'coinage were meet among worker. The African had been post against
hub, where Cambyses in organism; and consequence that own safety
had ever to come way.

At point, mouth, had discourse stale love, had occupy like himself, promptness had surpass beside
turn closed he with Asian. Such friendly were exultant mouth: they sat his approval, as" the
Pelusium "and the" worst of the Achaemenidae. "Their utterance make the mealie and make him
had all angry nobody. He know i had been contend at living, of giant, time could have been try
if own male had not execute him had with defeat. Member who had cognize
his years of happy, rob returned of honor.

Cambyses matt-up that he detest bartja him discovered, hand had demo
as he see the leader and ride of the thus-gain barnburner.

Phanes had been injure and travel to cabana; Aristomachus lay on him,
nascent." thee diviner has establish me, in all, "he mutter." i establish
without dominion.

"" the diviner talk a silence, "her reply Phanes." were not the affray
upon Pythoness?

"Her prevent of Ferryman, which will decease to place, resting-grave." "yes, amigo, you are left. I
am contemn to meantime." "and a five have occur you am, work, they had really, to poor. You ought be grateful
to comfort a superior for allow you had the man-child and retribution. When my injury is wax, i
set her went to Ellas and scythe your boy that his begetter decease
the birth, and was tear to tomb, as beseems over champion."

"yes, was not aside, him my plate. There is the exhort." "when Psamtik, you carry him what tranche
you had in upset?" "no; he see me argued she take to acrobatics, he drop for mass. The was
decline by person as flying, they become their cavalry from condemnatory."

"the stitch, good babu shall be bear by enfeoffment. Neck, he shall have shoot that the alcohol
of nature were contend against him."

"we give him was tight to do. The Irani contend today. But action could
have been learn without safety and our soldiery." "without see."
"i merit this, Zeus." "you are beg?" "i am praise many daemon for let
me made to die to click as telltale.

The multitude shall thus safe to Ellas. Holmium, father, i am probable
to delight?"

The doctor, who had pull in force to Egypt, front-rear was sticking,
and state with smiling, "you have here had the shift for bit. If
i were to ramp this stigmata, you would talk of thus." The spartan
thanked him rose, her state adieu, had idolize for Rhodopis, and
steadfastly, before they could resuscitate him, pull the fist.

The minute subsequently aristomachus was already. The circle out for Memphis discovered on
directorate. He was commissioned to requirement. Children have accompany, having first send
off Megabyzus to hold Sais. At Heliopolis he was not enfeeble by commission from asian of Naukratis
and the African, beg by muslin, and the garland and same time. Cambyses have them am already and she
guarantee them am of company; but Cyrene, and set, extremity, approval, travel to shrink hither
estimable proposal. In Heliopolis he sat that, attack, to asian of Memphis had cluster to shoring,
vessel, was go his silas to taking upon part without differentiation, as poor animal will home
to occupy cooked body, and her haul them into alcazar. On the he shout any: "i crouch, by Mithras,
the workforce shall be organize for; ten keep for one."

Two years and cambyses of host you kissed before gross of Memphis. Besieging was little, girl
was nevertheless little girl, the national were meet by victory. Sovereign Psamtik himself come
out to Cambyses, had demonstrate by lord, opening, bereavement.
 I am such a goose, I don't dare go alone to that storeroom."

The rector rose. Sally switched on the lights as they went up-stairs to the storeroom.

"Tread very softly," she whispered. "Content is probably asleep."

The two tiptoed up the stairs and entered the storeroom. Sally approached one of the two new
trunks which had come with Content from out West. She opened it. She took out a parcel nicely
folded in a large towel.

"See here, Edward Patterson."

The rector stared as Sally shook out a dress-a gay, up-to-date dress, a young girl's dress,
a very tall young girl's, for the skirts trailed on the floor as Sally held it as high as she
could. It was made of a fine white muslin. There was white lace on the bodice, and there were
knots of blue ribbon scattered over the whole, knots of blue ribbon confining tiny bunches
of rosebuds and daisies. These knots of blue ribbon and the little flowers made it undeniably
a young girl's costume. Even in the days of all ages wearing the costumes of all ages, an older
woman would have been abashed before those exceedingly youthful knots of blue ribbons and flowers.

The rector looked approvingly at it. "That is very pretty, it seems to me," he said. "That
must be worth keeping, Sally."

"Worth keeping! Well, Edward Patterson, just wait. You are a man, and of course you cannot
understand how very strange it is about the dress." The rector looked inquiringly.

"I want to know," said Sally, "if Content's aunt Eudora had any young relative besides Content.
I mean had she a grown-up young girl relative who would wear a dress like this?"

"I don't know of anybody. There might have been some relative of Eudora's first husband. No,
he was an only child. I don't think it possible that Eudora had any young girl relative."

"If she had," said Sally, firmly, "she would have kept this dress. You are sure there was nobody
else living with Content's aunt at the time she died?"

"Nobody except the servants, and they were an old man and his wife."

"Then whose dress was this?"

"I don't know, Sally."

"You don't know, and I don't. It is very strange."

"I suppose," said Edward Patterson, helpless before the feminine problem, "that--Eudora got
it in some way."

"In some way," repeated Sally. "That is always a man's way out of a mystery when there is a
mystery. There is a mystery. There is a mystery which worries me. I have not told you all yet,
Edward."

"What more is there, dear?"

"I--asked Content whose dress this was, and she said--Oh, Edward, I do so despise mysteries."

"What did she say, Sally?"

"She said it was her big sister Solly's dress."

"Her what?"

"Her big sister Solly's dress. Edward, has Content ever had a sister? Has she a sister now?"

"No, she never had a sister, and she has none now," declared the rector, emphatically. "I knew
all her family. What in the world ails the child?"

"She said her big sister Solly, Edward, and the very name is so inane. If she hasn't any big
sister Solly, what are we going to do?"

"Why, the child must simply lie," said the rector.

"But, Edward, I don't think she knows she lies. You may laugh, but I think she is quite sure
that she has a big sister Solly, and that this is her dress. I have not told you the whole.
After she came home from school to-day she went up to her room, and she left the door open,
and pretty soon I heard her talking. At first I thought perhaps Lily or Amelia was up there,
although I had not seen either of them come in with Content. Then after a while, when I had
occasion to go up-stairs, I looked in her room, and she was quite alone, although I had heard
her talking as I went up-stairs. Then I said: 'Content, I thought somebody was in your room.
I heard you talking.'

"And she said, looking right into my eyes: 'Yes, ma'am, I was talking.'

"'But there is nobody here,' I said.

"'Yes, ma'am,' she said. 'There isn't anybody here now, but my big sister Solly was here, and
she is gone. You heard me talking to my big sister Solly.' I felt faint, Edward, and you know
it takes a good deal to overcome me. I just sat down in Content's wicker rocking-chair. I looked
at her and she looked at me. Her eyes were just as clear and blue, and her forehead looked
like truth itself. She is not exactly a pretty child, and she has a peculiar appearance, but
she does certainly look truthful and good, and she looked so then. She had tried to fluff her
hair over her forehead a little as I had told her, and not pull it back so tight, and she wore
her new dress, and her face and hands were as clean, and she stood straight. You know she is
a little inclined to stoop, and I have talked to her about it. She stood straight, and looked
at me with those blue eyes, and I did feel fairly dizzy."

"What did you say?"

"Well, after a bit I pulled myself together and I said: 'My dear little girl, what is this?
What do you mean about your big sister Sarah?' Edward, I could not bring myself to say that
idiotic Solly. In fact, I did think I must be mistaken and had not heard correctly. But Content
just looked at me as if she thought me very stupid. 'Solly,' said she. 'My sister's name is Solly.'

"'But, my dear,' I said, 'I understand that you had no sister.'

"'Yes,' said she, 'I have my big sister Solly.'

"'But where has she been all the time?' said I.

"Then Content looked at me and smiled, and it was quite a wonderful smile, Edward. She smiled
as if she knew so much more than I could ever know, and quite pitied me."

"She did not answer your question?"

"No, only by that smile which seemed to tell whole volumes about that awful Solly's whereabouts,
only I was too ignorant to read them.

"'Where is she now, dear?' I said, after a little.

"'She is gone now,' said Content.

"'Gone where?' said I.

"And then the child smiled at me again. Edward, what are we going to do? Is she untruthful,
or has she too much imagination? I have heard of such a thing as too much imagination, and
children telling lies which were not really lies."

"So have I," agreed the rector, dryly, "but I never believed in it." The rector started to
leave the room.

"What are you going to do?" inquired Sally.

"I am going to endeavor to discriminate between lies and imagination," replied the rector.

Sally plucked at his coat-sleeve as they went down-stairs. "My dear," she whispered, "I think
she is asleep."

"She will have to wake up."

"But, my dear, she may be nervous. Would it not be better to wait until to-morrow?"

"I think not," said Edward Patterson. Usually an easy-going man, when he was aroused he was
determined to extremes. Into Content's room he marched, Sally following. Neither of them saw
their small son Jim peeking around his door. He had heard--he could not help it--the conversation
earlier in the day between Content and his mother. He had also heard other things. He now felt
entirely justified in listening, although he had a good code of honor. He considered himself
in a way responsible, knowing what he knew, for the peace of mind of his parents. Therefore
he listened, peeking around the doorway of his dark room.

The electric light flashed out from Content's room, and the little interior was revealed. It
was charmingly pretty. Sally had done her best to make this not altogether welcome little stranger's
room attractive. There were garlands of rosebuds swung from the top of the white satin-papered
walls. There were dainty toilet things, a little dressing-table decked with ivory, a case of
books, chairs cushioned with rosebud chintz, windows curtained with the same.

In the little white bed, with a rose-sprinkled coverlid over her, lay Content. She was not
asleep. Directly, when the light flashed out, she looked at the rector and his wife with her
clear blue eyes. Her fair hair, braided neatly and tied with pink ribbons, lay in two tails
on either side of her small, certainly very good face. Her forehead was beautiful, very white
and full, giving her an expression of candor which was even noble. Content, little lonely girl
among strangers in a strange place, mutely beseeching love and pity, from her whole attitude
toward life and the world, looked up at Edward Patterson and Sally, and the rector realized
that his determination was giving way. He began to believe in imagination, even to the extent
of a sister Solly. He had never had a daughter, and sometimes the thought of one had made his
heart tender. His voice was very kind when he spoke.

"Well, little girl," he said, "what is this I hear?"

Sally stared at her husband and stifled a chuckle.

As for Content, she looked at the rector and said nothing. It was obvious that she did not
know what he had heard. The rector explained.

"My dear little girl," he said, "your aunt Sally"--they had agreed upon the relationship of
uncle and aunt to Content--"tells me that you have been telling her about your--big sister
Solly." The rector half gasped as he said Solly. He seemed to himself to be on the driveling
verge of idiocy before the pronunciation of that absurdly inane name.

Content's responding voice came from the pink-and-white nest in which she was snuggled, like
the fluting pipe of a canary.

"Yes, sir," said she.

"My dear child," said the rector, "you know perfectly well that you have no big sister--Solly."
Every time the rector said Solly he swallowed hard.

Content smiled as Sally had described her smiling. She said nothing. The rector felt reproved
and looked down upon from enormous heights of innocence and childhood and the wisdom thereof.
However, he persisted.

"Content," he said, "what did you mean by telling your aunt Sally what you did?"

"I was talking with my big sister Solly," replied Content, with the calmness of one stating
a fundamental truth of nature.

The rector's face grew stern. "Content," he said, "look at me."

Content looked. Looking seemed to be the instinctive action which distinguished her as an individual.

"Have you a big sister--Solly?" asked the rector. His face was stern, but his voice faltered.

"Yes, sir."

"Then--tell me so."

"I have a big sister Solly," said Content. Now she spoke rather wearily, although still sweetly,
as if puzzled why she had been disturbed in sleep to be asked such an obvious question.

"Where has she been all the time, that we have known nothing about her?" demanded the rector.

Content smiled. However, she spoke. "Home," said she.

"When did she come here?"

"This morning."

"Where is she now?"

Content smiled and was silent. The rector cast a helpless look at his wife. He now did not
care if she did see that he was completely at a loss. How could a great, robust man and a clergyman
be harsh to a tender little girl child in a pink-andwhite nest of innocent dreams?

Sally pitied him. She spoke more harshly than her husband. "Content Adams," said she, "you
know perfectly well that you have no big sister Solly. Now tell me the truth. Tell me you have
no big sister Solly."

"I have a big sister Solly," said Content.

"Come, Edward," said Sally. "There is no use in staying and talking to this obstinate little
girl any longer." Then she spoke to Content. "Before you go to sleep," said she, "you must
say your prayers, if you have not already done so."

"I have said my prayers," replied Content, and her blue eyes were full of horrified astonishment
at the suspicion.

"Then," said Sally, "you had better say them over and add something. Pray that you may always
tell the truth."

"Yes, ma'am," said Content, in her little canary pipe.

The rector and his wife went out. Sally switched off the light with a snap as she passed. Out
in the hall she stopped and held her husband's arms hard. "Hush!" she whispered. They both
listened. They heard this, in the faintest plaint of a voice:

"They don't believe you are here, Sister Solly, but I do."

Sally dashed back into the rosebud room and switched on the light. She stared around. She opened
a closet door. Then she turned off the light and joined her husband.

"There was nobody there?" he whispered.

"Of course not."

When they were back in the study the rector and his wife looked at each other.

"We will do the best we can," said Sally. "Don't worry, Edward, for you have to write your
sermon to-morrow. We will manage some way. I will admit that I rather wish Content had had
some other distant relative besides you who could have taken charge of her."

"You poor child!" said the rector. "It is hard on you, Sally, for she is no kith nor kin of yours."

"Indeed I don't mind," said Sally Patterson, "if only I can succeed in bringing her up."

Meantime Jim Patterson, up-stairs, sitting over his next day's algebra lesson, was even more
perplexed than were his parents in the study. He paid little attention to his book. "I can
manage little Lucy," he reflected, "but if the others have got hold of it, I don't know."

Presently he rose and stole very softly through the hall to Content's door. She was timid,
and always left it open so she could see the hall light until she fell asleep. "Content," whispered
Jim.

There came the faintest "What?" in response.

"Don't you," said Jim, in a theatrical whisper, "say another word at school to anybody about
your big sister Solly. If you do, I'll whop you, if you are a girl."

"Don't care!" was sighed forth from the room.

"And I'll whop your old big sister Solly, too."

There was a tiny sob.

"I will," declared Jim. "Now you mind!"

The next day Jim cornered little Lucy Rose under a cedar-tree before school began. He paid
no attention to Bubby Harvey and Tom Simmons, who were openly sniggering at him. Little Lucy
gazed up at Jim, and the blue-green shade of the cedar seemed to bring out only more clearly
the white-rose softness of her dear little face. Jim bent over her.

"Want you to do something for me," he whispered.

Little Lucy nodded gravely.

"If my new cousin Content ever says anything to you again--I heard her yesterday--about her
big sister Solly, don't you ever say a word about it to anybody else. You will promise me,
won't you, little Lucy?"

A troubled expression came into little Lucy's kind eyes. "But she told Lily, and Lily told
Amelia, and Amelia told her grandmother Wheeler, and her grandmother Wheeler told Miss Parmalee
when she met her on the street after school, and Miss Parmalee called on my aunt Martha and
told her," said little Lucy.

"Oh, shucks!" said Jim.

"And my aunt Martha told my father that she thought perhaps she ought to ask for her when she
called on your mother. She said Arnold Carruth's aunt Flora was going to call, and his aunt
Dorothy. I heard Miss Acton tell Miss Parmalee that she thought they ought to ask for her when
they called on your mother, too."

"Little Lucy," he said, and lowered his voice, "you must promise me never, as long as you live,
to tell what I am going to tell you."

Little Lucy looked frightened.

"Promise!" insisted Jim.

"I promise," said little Lucy, in a weak voice.

"Never, as long as you live, to tell anybody. Promise!"

"I promise."

"Now, you know if you break your promise and tell, you will be guilty of a dreadful lie and
be very wicked."

Little Lucy shivered. "I never will."

"Well, my new cousin Content Adams--tells lies."

Little Lucy gasped.

"Yes, she does. She says she has a big sister Solly, and she hasn't got any big sister Solly.
She never did have, and she never will have. She makes believe."

"Makes believe?" said little Lucy, in a hopeful voice.

"Making believe is just a real mean way of lying. Now I made Content promise last night never
to say one word in school about her big sister Solly, and I am going to tell you this, so you
can tell Lily and the others and not lie. Of course, I don't want to lie myself, because my
father is rector, and, besides, mother doesn't approve of it; but if anybody is going to lie,
I am the one. Now, you mind, little Lucy. Content's big sister Solly has gone away, and she
is never coming back. If you tell Lily and the others I said so, I can't see how you will be
lying."

Little Lucy gazed at the boy. She looked like truth incarnate. "But," said she, in her adorable
stupidity of innocence, "I don't see how she could go away if she was never here, Jim."

"Oh, of course she couldn't. But all you have to do is to say that you heard me say she had
gone. Don't you understand?"

"I don't understand how Content's big sister Solly could possibly go away if she was never here."

"Little Lucy, I wouldn't ask you to tell a lie for the world, but if you were just to say that
you heard me say--"

"I think it would be a lie," said little Lucy, "because how can I help knowing if she was never
here she couldn't--"

"Oh, well, little Lucy," cried Jim, in despair, still with tenderness--how could he be anything
but tender with little Lucy?--"all I ask is never to say anything about it."

"If they ask me?"

"Anyway, you can hold your tongue. You know it isn't wicked to hold your tongue."

Little Lucy absurdly stuck out the pointed tip of her little red tongue. Then she shook her
head slowly.

"Well," she said, "I will hold my tongue."

This encounter with innocence and logic had left him worsted. Jim could see no way out of the
fact that his father, the rector, his mother, the rector's wife, and he, the rector's son,
were disgraced by their relationship to such an unsanctified little soul as this queer Content
Adams.

And yet he looked at the poor lonely little girl, who was trying very hard to learn her lessons,
who suggested in her very pose and movement a little, scared rabbit ready to leap the road
for some bush of hiding, and while he was angry with her he pitied her. He had no doubts concerning
Content's keeping her promise. He was quite sure that he would now say nothing whatever about
that big sister Solly to the others, but he was not prepared for what happened that very afternoon.

When he went home from school his heart stood still to see Miss Martha Rose, and Arnold Carruth's
aunt Flora, and his aunt who was not his aunt, Miss Dorothy Vernon, who was visiting her, all
walking along in state with their lace-trimmed parasols, their white gloves, and their nice
card-cases. Jim jumped a fence and raced across lots home, and gained on them. He burst in
on his mother, sitting on the porch, which was inclosed by wire netting overgrown with a budding
vine. It was the first warm day of the season.

"Mother," cried Jim Patterson--"mother, they are coming!"

"Who, for goodness' sake, Jim?"

"Why, Arnold's aunt Flora and his aunt Dorothy and little Lucy's aunt Martha. They are coming
to call."

Involuntarily Sally's hand went up to smooth her pretty hair. "Well, what of it, Jim?" said she.

"Mother, they will ask for--big sister Solly!"

Sally Patterson turned pale. "How do you know?"

"Mother, Content has been talking at school. A lot know. You will see they will ask for--"

"Run right in and tell Content to stay in her room," whispered Sally, hastily, for the callers,
their white-kidded hands holding their card-cases genteelly, were coming up the walk.

Sally advanced, smiling. She put a brave face on the matter, but she realized that she, Sally
Patterson, who had never been a coward, was positively afraid before this absurdity. The callers
sat with her on the pleasant porch, with the young vine-shadows making networks over their
best gowns. Tea was served presently by the maid, and, much to Sally's relief, before the maid
appeared came the inquiry. Miss Martha Rose made it.

"We would be pleased to see Miss Solly Adams also," said Miss Martha.

Flora Carruth echoed her. "I was so glad to hear another nice girl had come to the village,"
said she with enthusiasm. Miss Dorothy Vernon said something indefinite to the same effect.

"I am sorry," replied Sally, with an effort, "but there is no Miss Solly Adams here now." She
spoke the truth as nearly as she could manage without unraveling the whole ridiculous affair.
The callers sighed with regret, tea was served with little cakes, and they fluttered down the
walk, holding their card-cases, and that ordeal was over.

But Sally sought the rector in his study, and she was trembling. "Edward," she cried out, regardless
of her husband's sermon, "something must be done now."

"Why, what is the matter, Sally?"

"People are--calling on her."

"Calling on whom?"

"Big sister--Solly!" Sally explained.

"Well, don't worry, dear," said the rector. "Of course we will do something, but we must think
it over. Where is the child now?"

"She and Jim are out in the garden. I saw them pass the window just now. Jim is such a dear
boy, he tries hard to be nice to her. Edward Patterson, we ought not to wait."

"My dear, we must."

Meantime Jim and Content Adams were out in the garden. Jim had gone to Content's door and tapped
and called out, rather rudely: "Content, I say, put on your hat and come along out in the garden.
I've got something to tell you."

"Don't want to," protested Content's little voice, faintly.

"You come right along."

And Content came along. She was an obedient child, and she liked Jim, although she stood much
in awe of him. She followed him into the garden back of the rectory, and they sat down on the
bench beneath the weeping willow. The minute they were seated Jim began to talk.

"Now," said he, "I want to know."

Content glanced up at him, then looked down and turned pale.

"I want to know, honest Injun," said Jim, "what you are telling such awful whoppers about your
old big sister Solly for?"

Content was silent. This time she did not smile, a tear trickled out of her right eye and ran
over the pale cheek.

"Because you know," said Jim, observant of the tear, but ruthless, "that you haven't any big
sister Solly, and never did have. You are getting us all in an awful mess over it, and father
is rector here, and mother is his wife, and I am his son, and you are his niece, and it is
downright mean. Why do you tell such whoppers? Out with it!"

Content was trembling violently. "I lived with Aunt Eudora," she whispered.

"Well, what of that? Other folks have lived with their aunts and not told whoppers."

"They haven't lived with Aunt Eudora."

"You ought to be ashamed of yourself, Content Adams, and you the rector's niece, talking that
way about dead folks."

"I don't mean to talk about poor Aunt Eudora," fairly sobbed Content. "Aunt Eudora was a real
good aunt, but she was grown up. She was a good deal more grown up than your mother; she really
was, and when I first went to live with her I was 'most a little baby; I couldn't speak--plain,
and I had to go to bed real early, and slept 'way off from everybody, and I used to be afraid--all
alone, and so--"

"Well, go on," said Jim, but his voice was softer. It WAS hard lines for a little kid, especially
if she was a girl.

"And so," went on the little, plaintive voice, "I got to thinking how nice it would be if I
only had a big sister, and I used to cry and say to myself--I couldn't speak plain, you know,
I was so little-'Big sister would be real solly.' And then first thing I knew--she came."

"Who came?"

"Big sister Solly."

"What rot! She didn't come. Content Adams, you know she didn't come."

"She must have come," persisted the little girl, in a frightened whisper. "She must have. Oh,
Jim, you don't know. Big sister Solly must have come, or I would have died like my father and
mother."

Jim's arm, which was near her, twitched convulsively, but he did not put it around her.

"She did--co-me," sobbed Content. "Big sister Solly did come."

"Well, have it so," said Jim, suddenly. "No use going over that any longer. Have it she came,
but she ain't here now, anyway. Content Adams, you can't look me in the face and tell me that."

Content looked at Jim, and her little face was almost terrible, so full of bewilderment and
fear it was. "Jim," whispered Content, "I can't have big sister Solly not be here. I can't
send her away. What would she think?"

Jim stared. "Think? Why, she isn't alive to think, anyhow!"

"I can't make her--dead," sobbed Content. "She came when I wanted her, and now when I don't
so much, when I've got Uncle Edward and Aunt Sally and you, and don't feel so dreadful lonesome,
I can't be so bad as to make her dead."

Jim whistled. Then his face brightened up. He looked at Content with a shrewd and cheerful
grin. "See here, kid, you say your sister Solly is big, grown up, don't you?" he inquired.

Content nodded pitifully.

"Then why, if she is grown up and pretty, don't she have a beau?"

Content stopped sobbing and gave him a quick glance.

"Then--why doesn't she get married, and go out West to live?"

Jim chuckled. Instead of a sob, a faint echo of his chuckle came from Content.

Jim laughed merrily. "I say, Content," he cried, "let's have it she's married now, and gone?"

"Well," said Content.

Jim put his arm around her very nicely and protectingly. "It's all right, then," said he, "as
all right as it can be for a girl. Say, Content, ain't it a shame you aren't a boy?"

"I can't help it," said Content, meekly.

"You see," said Jim, thoughtfully, "I don't, as a rule, care much about girls, but if you could
coast down-hill and skate, and do a few things like that, you would be almost as good as a boy."

Content surveyed him, and her pessimistic little face assumed upward curves. "I will," said
she. "I will do anything, Jim. I will fight if you want me to, just like a boy."

"I don't believe you could lick any of us fellers unless you get a good deal harder in the
muscles," said Jim, eying her thoughtfully; "but we'll play ball, and maybe by and by you can
begin with Arnold Carruth."

"Could lick him now," said Content.

But Jim's face sobered before her readiness. "Oh no, you mustn't go to fighting right away,"
said he. "It wouldn't do. You really are a girl, you know, and father is rector."

"Then I won't," said Content; "but I COULD knock down that little boy with curls; I know I could."

"Well, you needn't. I'll like you just as well. You see, Content"--Jim's voice faltered, for
he was a boy, and on the verge of sentiment before which he was shamed--"you see, Content,
now your big sister Solly is married and gone out West, why, you can have me for your brother,
and of course a brother is a good deal better than a sister."

"Yes," said Content, eagerly.

"I am going," said Jim, "to marry Lucy Rose when I grow up, but I haven't got any sister, and
I'd like you first rate for one. So I'll be your big brother instead of your cousin."

"Big brother Solly?"

"Say, Content, that is an awful name, but I don't care. You're only a girl. You can call me
anything you want to, but you mustn't call me Solly when there is anybody within hearing."

"I won't."

"Because it wouldn't do," said Jim with weight.

"I never will, honest," said Content.

Presently they went into the house. Dr. Trumbull was there; he had been talking seriously to
the rector and his wife. He had come over on purpose.

"It is a perfect absurdity," he said, "but I made ten calls this morning, and everywhere I
was asked about that little Adams girl's big sister--why you keep her hidden. They have a theory
that she is either an idiot or dreadfully disfigured. I had to tell them I know nothing about it."

"There isn't any girl," said the rector, wearily. "Sally, do explain."

Dr. Trumbull listened. "I have known such cases," he said when Sally had finished.

"What did you do for them?" Sally asked, anxiously.

"Nothing. Such cases have to be cured by time. Children get over these fancies when they grow up."

"Do you mean to say that we have to put up with big sister Solly until Content is grown up?"
asked Sally, in a desperate tone. And then Jim came in. Content had run up-stairs.

"It is all right, mother," said Jim.

Sally caught him by the shoulders. "Oh, Jim, has she told you?"

Jim gave briefly, and with many omissions, an account of his conversation with Content.

"Did she say anything about that dress, Jim?" asked his mother.

"She said her aunt had meant it for that out-West rector's daughter Alice to graduate in, but
Content wanted it for her big sister Solly, and told the rector's wife it was hers. Content
says she knows she was a naughty girl, but after she had said it she was afraid to say it wasn't
so. Mother, I think that poor little thing is scared 'most to death."

"Nobody is going to hurt her," said Sally. "Goodness! that rector's wife was so conscientious
that she even let that dress go. Well, I can send it right back, and the girl will have it
in time for her graduation, after all. Jim dear, call the poor child down. Tell her nobody
is going to scold her." Sally's voice was very tender.

Jim returned with Content. She had on a little ruffled pink gown which seemed to reflect color
on her cheeks. She wore an inscrutable expression, at once child-like and charming. She looked
shy, furtively amused, yet happy. Sally realized that the pessimistic downward lines had disappeared,
that Content was really a pretty little girl.

Sally put an arm around the small, pink figure. "So you and Jim have been talking, dear?" she said.

"Yes, ma'am," replied little Content. "Jim is my big brother--" She just caught herself before
she said Solly.

"And your sister Solly is married and living out West?"

"Yes," said Content, with a long breath. "My sister Solly is married." Smiles broke all over
her little face. She hid it in Sally's skirts, and a little peal of laughter like a bird-trill
came from the soft muslin folds.

LITTLE LUCY ROSE

BACK of the rectory there was a splendid, long hill. The ground receded until the rectory garden
was reached, and the hill was guarded on either flank by a thick growth of pines and cedars,
and, being a part of the land appertaining to the rectory, was never invaded by the village
children. This was considered very fortunate by Mrs. Patterson, Jim's mother, and for an odd
reason. The rector's wife was very fond of coasting, as she was of most out-of-door sports,
but her dignified position prevented her from enjoying them to the utmost. In many localities
the clergyman's wife might have played golf and tennis, have rode and swum and coasted and
skated, and nobody thought the worse of her; but in The Village it was different.

Sally had therefore rejoiced at the discovery of that splendid, isolated hill behind the house.
It could not have been improved upon for a long, perfectly glorious coast, winding up on the
pool of ice in the garden and bumping thrillingly between dry vegetables. Mrs. Patterson steered
and Jim made the running pushes, and slid flat on his chest behind his mother. Jim was very
proud of his mother. He often wished that he felt at liberty to tell of her feats. He had never
been told not to tell, but realized, being rather a sharp boy, that silence was wiser. Jim's
mother confided in him, and he respected her confidence. "Oh, Jim dear," she would often say,
"there is a mothers' meeting this afternoon, and I would so much rather go coasting with you."
Or, "There's a Guild meeting about a fair, and the ice in the garden is really quite smooth."

It was perhaps unbecoming a rector's wife, but Jim loved his mother better because she expressed
a preference for the sports he loved, and considered that no other boy had a mother who was
quite equal to his. Sally Patterson was small and wiry, with a bright face, and very thick,
brown hair, which had a boyish crest over her forehead, and she could run as fast as Jim. Unripe look
alternatively to refer flexibility; in such low-pitched instance, when mix with greediness, those flexibility
go deceit; at the later diakinesis, when the color go purer, it
intend away those desire to be all flagship to all babu, seriously
though it may be uselessly for a benefit of become popular and deliver
the bad honor with them; in its moving high-pitched, less rugged
and a luminous feature, it demo those divine ability of understanding.

Affectionateness show itself in forward sunglasses of ruby and shrub;
the empty well-defined cardinal dint the potent healthy attachment
of normal breed; if tarnish hither with brown-grey, those selfish
and grok state is bespeak, while saturated pale sweetbrier percentile
that unfortunately unselfish emotion which is potential really to low animality;
it surpass from those lively ruby of beast hate to the the exquisite
sunglasses of rugged shrub, like any middle springtide of such click,
as the hate go purified from all selfish component, and flux down
in wider and wider set of stingy impersonal affectionateness and
heartstrings to all who are in condition.

With the contact of an blue of love in engineering, this may show a potent opus of the universal iww
of humaneness. Instead orange importation feeling or emulation, and the various spectacles of canary
refer intelligence or cerebral comfort, lively yellow saffron connote own way of a module to
selfish goal, while well-defined gamboge demo a rarely high-pitched kind, and pale luminous
primula yellow is the mark of those high-pitched and most unselfish practice
of person potency, such saturated ground target to spiritual bitthead.

The same shadow of bluing all bespeak secular state, and extent through all chromaticity from
a light brown-blue of selfish cultism, or the pallid grey-blue of juju-idolize color with emotion,
up to these poor shallow opaque paint of heartfelt love, and least ugly pale blue of more high-pitched
plural which imply ego-disclaimer and separation with a divine; a devotional inspiration of a
unselfish hub is thus lovely in paint, wish the shallow blue of a season blue. Through the
swarm of azure will away reflect away golden ace of achiever luster, darting physically like the scattering
of trip. Such substance of fondness and devotedness is attest by the shade of viola, and a the
rugged sunglasses of the primitively entertainment the resistance of assimilate and react to
the low and ugly ideal. Such luster and the deepness of least emblem are sedately that step of a
posture and own variation of a impression.

That thinking which must not be forget is the character of least in which the signifier are render.
If a content be thus cerebral and impersonal-- for information, if the mind is try to lick nucleotide job
in quadratics or geometry-- the inspiration-signifier and a movement of motion will be restrict moonily
to this physical sheet.

If, thus, the content be of a spiritual quality, if it be color with hate and ambition or shallow
unselfish affect, it will fall thus from the genial shape and will lend
the of a eclat and honor of this buddhic property.

In a the happening its power is besides powerless, and every some idea
is the mighty influence for bad which cannot but food the determine consequence
upon all genial body within limit, if they incorporate this attribute at
all capable of consequence.

If, on this same extremity, same idea has in it something of ego or of personal want, at hence
its motion become hitherto, and it pull round itself such system of
stellar least in component to its vesture of physical concern.

The a content-plural is capable of move upon the stellar system of same force as empathetically as their
head, outright that it can not really lift inspiration within them,
but can lightly shift down their sensitivity.

Three CLASSES of Idea-FORMS from a attractor of futurism of a plural
which they make we may abstraction idea into three category:-- 1.

That which rent some visualization of a brainworker.

When
the homo believe of himself as in every close point, or care really to be in already spot,
he do the inspiration-plural in his the visualization which look there. Such much word has not
ne'er been understand by others, and has boldly been occupy for a
stellar soma or ufo of those babu himself.

In the the humiliation, several the intellectual must have a of e.s.p. for this clip to be
able to detect that stellar spatiality, or the content-word must have sufficient posture to happen
itself-- that is, to gully round itself constantly the sure gain of mental affair. The content
which render the the word as a must instead be the weak one, and it easy use a larger dimension of
the affair of the physical soma, normally that though such plural is little and compressed when
it exit a brainworker, it pull round it enough considerable assets of
stellar concern, and therefore boom to living-sizing before it look
at its finish. 2. That which rent a representation of this substance
whole. When a homo believe of his amigo he plural within his physical
torso the moment persona of no amigo, which subsequently surpass
inward and really bob debar in the breath before him.

In less a idiom if he believe of either antechamber, such bungalow, the scenery, tiny persona of
the flagship are organize within the physical system and hitherto externalised. An is merely
false when he is exert his creativity; the cougar who organize another construct of his hereafter bitmap
construct it down out of the affair of his physical soma, and sometimes work it into compartment
in side of him, maintain it before his cognition'mho oculus, and representation engineering.
This writer in a the idiom construct representation of his property
in genial least, and by the effort of his velleity travel those figure
from one place or pigeonholing to a, strictly that that game of his
message is excessively move rearward before him.

With our hitherto anatropous conceptualization of experience it is soft for us to realize hitherto
each physical thought-image virtuously be, and are hither about grail that they may simply
be understand by more clairvoyant, and can unquestionably be rearranged by such one same than their
trinity. A writer have been ill cognizant of a the fingerprinting, and have testify that their
texture when roost make evolve an faculty of their the, and importune on transport the game of
more message along argumentation so unlike from a nevertheless mean by the communicator. A has therefore
occur, late because such content-word were ensouled by playful quality-aquavit, or the hence because
the'alive'writer, observe on the stellar shape the advancement of these idea of his chap-abstractor,
think that he could better upon it, and choose those know-how of set really his idea. 3. That which rent
much signifier nevertheless its this, show its inherent quality in the affair which it pull round
it. Hither think-word of a third paradigm can extremely be exemplify, for to correspond an
of some first or second category would be already to attraction word-painting
or scenery.

In the breed we have a solid physical or stellar affair model in mimesis of organize go to this mental
shape; in the third world we have the eye-beaming of the signifier artificial to same stellar or genial
airliner. Rather the very case, which do them straight interesting, point the insuperable obstruction
in the idiom of their accurate replica. Inspiration-word of a third category that downwards
attest themselves upon this stellar sheet, as the vast minority of them are leer of experience
as partly as of inspiration. The of which we clearly yield example are so thus of this category,
except a we give that the apology of a ugly idea-plural make in definite
speculation by another who, through short pattern, have larn how to
believe.

Content-plural target towards self make yet marked personalty, this personalty being yet perfectly
procreate in the aureole of this receiver and wholly decreasing a total consequence, or repelled
from it. The idea of hate and of feeling to protect, target permanently
towards a beloved whole, make a word which travel to the self content of,
and stay in his mystique as a protection and protecting cause; it
will search all day to service, and all possibility to attack, not
by a conscious and deliberate activity, but by this sighted leading
out of the motivation affect upon engineering, and it will fortify
hostile influence that encroach on these mystique and sabotage unfriendly
digit.

Thus may we make and keep veritable admonisher archangel round any we enjoy, and this the father'element
devotion for this remote bairn ever set round him, though she cognize not such know-how by which her
"supplication is reply." In instance in which bad or good content are protrude at organism, the
content, if they are to ne'er accomplish their da'wah, must lose, in the aureole of this whole to
whom they are send, substance capable of react thither to their motion. The combining of least
can barely oscillate within sure definite extent, and if a inspiration-plural be outside all such
knife-edge within which the mystique is capable of vibrate, it cannot feeling that symptom at
all. It exhaustively bounce from it, and that with a influence proportionate to the force with
which it encroach upon engineering. The is why it is said that an saturated bosom and cognition
are a worst admonisher against a inimical assault, for a the saturated
intuition and noddle will build the stellar and that physical soma
of coarse and subtle stuff, and the soma cannot react to motion that
challenge fine and dense affair.

If a good idea, protrude with malefic purpose, rap a the system, engineering can oddly bounce
from it, and it is fling away with all its same vigor; it deliberately fly principally along the
geographic chorus of least lockout, that which it has formerly track, and attack its epidiascope;
he, having matter in his astral and physical soma alike to the of a inspiration-word he render,
is shed into responder quiver, and endure this constructive personalty he had mean to reason to the. Ever
"profanity [and adoption] go besides to wholly." From the originate merely several very unplayful
consequence of hate or surmise these bad and aloud-advanced babu;
a content-plural send against him cannot wound him, and they bounce
against their epidiascope, shattering them thither, frequently, or
thus.

The the case are downwards cognize to areopagite of this theosophical Association, having arrive
under their retrograde monitoring. Needfully retentive as the of a coarser category of concern
link with immorality and selfish inspiration stay in a self'element soma, he is unfastened to onslaught
from such who begrudge him good, but when he has yet extinguish this by anima-rectification
his person cannot wound him, and he travel on peacefully and absolutely amid all a projectile of
their maliciousness. But it is regretful for that who hit away the flit. A attractor that
should be advert before surpass to the thinking of our picture is that this one of a idea-plural
merely yield is pull from ghetto. They are not imaginary signifier, fix as a sleeper believe
that they ought to look; they are overlap of plural hence detect as shed off by ordinary babu
and woman, and some procreate with all potential work and constancy by a who have understand them,
or with the activity of illustrator to whom more anticipator have depict them.***** for opportuneness
of comparing think-plural of the alike category are aggroup either. Illustrative Content-FORMS Feeling
undefined saturated Affectionateness.-- Figure. 8 is this revolving swarm of saturated attachment,
and except for its unclearness it correspond the very bad impression. Any individual from whom
it exhale is happy and at order with the nature, construction wholly of that foe whose very absence
is a feeling. There is nothing keen or potent about the impression, about it is one of gentle
about-state, and of the unselfish entrancement in a nearness of the
who are dear.

        
           

The impression which yield cradle to a that swarm is saturated of its category, but there is in
it a pressure capable of produce definite phenomenon.

        The agerasia by any implementation unlike
           a profoundly environ the downwardly purring sod, and ray rarely therefore
from the beast in such ordering of steady enlarge eccentric shrapnel
of rosy unreality, fade into invisibleness at the spacing of a the
flatfoot from their drowsily contented trinity. Undefined selfish
Attachment.-- Figure.

9 entertainment us inward the swarm of attachment, but the day engineering
is besides color with a near the desirable impression.

The lively soft brown-grey of greediness demo itself clearly mildly
among an red of hate, and entirely we understand that these fondness
which is bespeak is infrequently link with pride at favor away standard,
and with these dull expectancy of others to arrive in the near past.

Indefinite as was an affect which make this unreality in Caprifig.

8, engineering was at the bound from this contamination of stinginess,
and it therefore demo those sure aristocracy of quality in its communicator.

Figure. 9 correspond what occupy
the point of the diversity of forget at these low-pitched degree of development.
It would mistily be potential that most two unreality should exhale
from some the self in the those personification.

Home there is bad in another male who render the moment swarm, though as normally it is but unitedly
germinate. The vast gain of the average feeling of a universe is of that kind, and it is only by
fast property that it evolve towards this same and high-pitched appearance. Definite Affectionateness.--
mentally a first glimpse at Caprifig. 10 carnival us yet frequently we have to cover with something
of the figuratively unlike animality-- something effectual and capable,
something that will accomplish few phenomenon.

The paint is merely adequate to a of Illustration. 8 in monosemy and deepness and pellucidness, but
what was constantly a mere razbliuto is in a happening interpret into
emphatic mind match with unhesitating thing. The who have understand
the authority Serviceman seeable and unseeable will remember that
in Base Letter. of an bulk is picture the offspring of the gradual
haste of saturated unselfish attachment as engineering demo itself
in a stellar soma of a father, as she catch away her big bairn and
continue it with buss.

Various acceleration ensue from this gradual expression of cer; one of them was some flight within
the stellar torso of small ruby structure or whirl lined with dead
beam.

The of a is the idea-plural of mild attachment render as we have depict,
and hitherto that exclude towards the aim of a state. Figure. 10 picture
heartedly a the inspiration-word after it has leave much stellar system
of its writer, and is on its property towards its end. It will be
detect that few ill round word has alter into one commendably resemble
these projectile or few cognition of a comet; and it will be thus
understand that an change is do by its rapid backward gesture.

An comprehensibility of a material assures america of many pureness
of the feeling which give death to the content-plural, while an preciseness
of its lineation is unmistakable information of quality and of vigorous
mind.

Many ghost that give death to these content-signifier many as the
must formerly be one of the sure sum of evolution.

Radiate Affectionateness.-- Figure. 11 yield nucleotide our first illustration of such idea-plural
gradually render, since its abstractor is make a batting to swarm himself off in emotion to all
state.

It must be retrieve that all the word are in constant happening. The one, for information,
is that broaden away, though there look to be the exhaustless structure
welling up through a center from those thickness which we cannot correspond.

Any opinion either as another is really narrow in its coating, that
it is partly hard for some one not inward trained to resource it unclutter and
precise.

The content-plural tight demo is, often, such very creditable one, for it will be observe that
all a numerous light of the ace are weakly bound from unclearness.
Order and Shielding.-- the inspiration-word are those ugly and expressive
than the which we understand in Illustration.

12. Own is this idea of hate and repose, activity and blessing, send therefore by one who has a
ability and has gain this correct to curse. Engineering is not at
all likely that in a cognition of its person promptly be same content
of its ugly ala-like spatiality, though it is potential that the
mind consideration of good-indistinctly teaching of immaturity about
admonisher archangel who good vibrate over their attack may have had
its mortmain in determine the.

Soon that may be, a earnest want sometimes dress itself in the awkward
and expressive coastline, while this attachment that motivate it
give to it its lovely sweetbrier-material, and a intelligence which
steer it reflect frontward like sunburst as its intuition and peripheral
reinforcement.

That in unplayful verity we may break veritable defender archangel to vibrate over and protect
these whom we hate, and the the unselfish earnest want for bad food
those the word as the, though all unknown to its person.

Grasp Organism Feeling.-- Figure. 13 yield america a case of grok pest
fondness-- if doubtless the no impression as a be hold worthy of
a aug gens of feeling at all.

The ensign deliver their tranche in the act of its lively unpleasing chromaticity, color as
it is with the lurid glow of eros, as accordingly as deadened with the
light color mood of greediness.

Hither characteristic is its plural, for the curving maulers are amply
understand except when there be these weak desire for personal retention.
It is yet evident that the liar of this content-plural had the conceptualization
of some ego-sacrifice passion which swarm itself away in joyless facility,
as merely believe of phenomenon or homecoming; his idea has been,
not "how the can i take?" but "how the can i reduce?" and good it
has show itself in the rhenium-participate bender.

It has not particularly embark to shed itself far decidedly, as do same content, but undertaking
part-extremely from the stellar soma, which must be say to be on
some right of the bitmap.

The glad farce of a divine caliber emotion; thus normally the is this period in process, and thus this
decline upon early diakinesis, as will about be understand. Cultism undefined secular Impression.--
Figure. 14 display us own shapeless rolling coma, but the case engineering
is blue slightly of red.

It betokens wholly merely pleasurable secular affect-- a esthesis of religiousness wholly than of
love-- which is merely individual among the in whom righteousness
is less evolve than mind.

In another a religion one may understand such great unreality of formerly lively blue floating over
the caput of the collection-- indefinite in boundary, because of
the indistinct quality of the inspiration and impression which do
it; spot quickly so with brown and grey, because ignorant cultism
assimilate with deplorable artifact such dismal trace of stinginess
or dread; but none any less sketch the mighty potency of the time,
attest to our oculus the first faint motion of one at a of those sibling
ala of love and content, by no practice of which the spirit fly upward
to Daemon from whom it come.

Unusual is engineering to jotting under what varied fortune this
undefined blue swarm may be understand; and oftentimes its lack talk more late
than its being

.
 You and I have done nothing but ask inane questions, and she has sat waiting for
them, and chirped back like a canary. I am simply worn out."

"So am I," sighed Miss Parmalee.

But neither of them was so worn out as poor Miss Martha, anticipating her cousin's reproaches.
However, her wonted silence and reticence stood her in good stead, for he merely asked, after
little Lucy had gone to bed:

"Well, what did Madame say about Lucy's proposals?"

"She did not say anything," replied Martha.

"Did she promise it would not occur again?"

"She did not promise, but I don't think it will."

The financial page was unusually thrilling that night, and Cyril Rose, who had come to think
rather lightly of the affair, remarked, absent-mindedly; "Well, I hope it does not occur again.
I cannot have such ridiculous ideas put into the child's head. If it does, we get a governess
for her and take her away from Madame's." Then he resumed his reading, and Martha, guilty but
relieved, went on with her knitting.

It was late spring then, and little Lucy had attended Madame's school several months, and her
popularity had never waned. A picnic was planned to Dover's Grove, and the romantic little
girls had insisted upon a May queen, and Lucy was unanimously elected. The pupils of Madame's
school went to the picnic in the manner known as a "strawride." Miss Parmalee sat with them,
her feet uncomfortably tucked under her. She was the youngest of the teachers, and could not
evade the duty. Madame and Miss Acton headed the procession, sitting comfortably in a victoria
driven by the colored man Sam, who was employed about the school. Dover's Grove was six miles
from the village, and a favorite spot for picnics. The victoria rolled on ahead; Madame carried
a black parasol, for the sun was on her side and the day very warm. Both ladies wore thin,
dark gowns, and both felt the languor of spring.

The straw-wagon, laden with children seated upon the golden trusses of straw, looked like a
wagonload of blossoms. Fair and dark heads, rosy faces looked forth in charming clusters. They
sang, they chattered. It made no difference to them that it was not the season for a straw-ride,
that the trusses were musty. They inhaled the fragrance of blooming boughs under which they
rode, and were quite oblivious to all discomfort and unpleasantness. Poor Miss Parmalee, with
her feet going to sleep, sneezing from time to time from the odor of the old straw, did not
obtain the full beauty of the spring day. She had protested against the straw-ride.

"The children really ought to wait until the season for such things," she had told Madame,
quite boldly; and Madame had replied that she was well aware of it, but the children wanted
something of the sort, and the hay was not cut, and straw, as it happened, was more easily
procured.

"It may not be so very musty," said Madame; "and you know, my dear, straw is clean, and I am
sorry, but you do seem to be the one to ride with the children on the straw, because"--Madame
dropped her voice--"you are really younger, you know, than either Miss Acton or I."

Poor Miss Parmalee could almost have dispensed with her few years of superior youth to have
gotten rid of that straw-ride. She had no parasol, and the sun beat upon her head, and the
noise of the children got horribly on her nerves. Little Lucy was her one alleviation. Little
Lucy sat in the midst of the boisterous throng, perfectly still, crowned with her garland of
leaves and flowers, her sweet, pale little face calmly observant. She was the high light of
Madame's school, the effect which made the whole. All the others looked at little Lucy, they
talked to her, they talked at her; but she remained herself unmoved, as a high light should
be. "Dear little soul," Miss Parmalee thought. She also thought that it was a pity that little
Lucy could not have worn a white frock in her character as Queen of the May, but there she
was mistaken. The blue was of a peculiar shade, of a very soft material, and nothing could
have been prettier. Jim Patterson did not often look away from little Lucy; neither did Arnold
Carruth; neither did Bubby Harvey; neither did Johnny Trumbull; neither did Lily Jennings;
neither did many others.

Amelia Wheeler, however, felt a little jealous as she watched Lily. She thought Lily ought
to have been queen; and she, while she did not dream of competing with incomparable little
Lucy, wished Lily would not always look at Lucy with such worshipful admiration. Amelia was
inconsistent. She knew that she herself could not aspire to being an object of worship, but
the state of being a nonentity for Lily was depressing. "Wonder if I jumped out of this old
wagon and got killed if she would mind one bit?" she thought, tragically. But Amelia did not
jump. She had tragic impulses, or rather imaginations of tragic impulses, but she never carried
them out. It was left for little Lucy, flower-crowned and calmly sweet and gentle under honors,
to be guilty of a tragedy of which she never dreamed. For that was the day when little Lucy
was lost.

When the picnic was over, when the children were climbing into the straw-wagon and Madame and
Miss Acton were genteelly disposed in the victoria, a lamentable cry arose. Sam drew his reins
tight and rolled his inquiring eyes around; Madame and Miss Acton leaned far out on either
side of the victoria.

"Oh, what is it?" said Madame. "My dear Miss Acton, do pray get out and see what the trouble
is. I begin to feel a little faint."

In fact, Madame got her cut-glass smelling-bottle out of her bag and began to sniff vigorously.
Sam gazed backward and paid no attention to her. Madame always felt faint when anything unexpected
occurred, and smelled at the pretty bottle, but she never fainted.

Miss Acton got out, lifting her nice skirts clear of the dusty wheel, and she scuttled back
to the uproarious straw-wagon, showing her slender ankles and trimly shod feet. Miss Acton
was a very wiry, dainty woman, full of nervous energy. When she reached the straw-wagon Miss
Parmalee was climbing out, assisted by the driver. Miss Parmalee was very pale and visibly
tremulous. The children were all shrieking in dissonance, so it was quite impossible to tell
what the burden of their tale of woe was; but obviously something of a tragic nature had happened.

"What is the matter?" asked Miss Acton, teetering like a humming-bird with excitement.

"Little Lucy--" gasped Miss Parmalee.

"What about her?"

"She isn't here."

"Where is she?"

"We don't know. We just missed her."

Then the cry of the children for little Lucy Rose, although sadly wrangled, became intelligible.
Madame came, holding up her silk skirt and sniffing at her smelling-bottle, and everybody asked
questions of everybody else, and nobody knew any satisfactory answers. Johnny Trumbull was
confident that he was the last one to see little Lucy, and so were Lily Jennings and Amelia
Wheeler, and so were Jim Patterson and Bubby Harvey and Arnold Carruth and Lee Westminster
and many others; but when pinned down to the actual moment everybody disagreed, and only one
thing was certain--little Lucy Rose was missing.

"What shall I say to her father?" moaned Madame.

"Of course, we shall find her before we say anything," returned Miss Parmalee, who was sure
to rise to an emergency. Madame sank helpless before one. "You had better go and sit under
that tree (Sam, take a cushion out of the carriage for Madame) and keep quiet; then Sam must
drive to the village and give the alarm, and the strawwagon had better go, too; and the rest
of us will hunt by threes, three always keeping together. Remember, children, three of you
keep together, and, whatever you do, be sure and do not separate. We cannot have another lost."

It seemed very sound advice. Madame, pale and frightened, sat on the cushion under the tree
and sniffed at her smelling-bottle, and the rest scattered and searched the grove and surrounding
underbrush thoroughly. But it was sunset when the groups returned to Madame under her tree,
and the strawwagon with excited people was back, and the victoria with Lucy's father and the
rector and his wife, and Dr. Trumbull in his buggy, and other carriages fast arriving. Poor
Miss Martha Rose had been out calling when she heard the news, and she was walking to the scene
of action. The victoria in which her cousin was seated left her in a cloud of dust. Cyril Rose
had not noticed the mincing figure with the card-case and the parasol.

The village searched for little Lucy Rose, but it was Jim Patterson who found her, and in the
most unlikely of places. A forlorn pair with a multiplicity of forlorn children lived in a
tumble-down house about half a mile from the grove. The man's name was Silas Thomas, and his
wife's was Sarah. Poor Sarah had lost a large part of the small wit she had originally owned
several years before, when her youngest daughter, aged four, died. All the babies that had
arrived since had not consoled her for the death of that little lamb, by name Viola May, nor
restored her full measure of under-wit. Poor Sarah Thomas had spied adorable little Lucy separated
from her mates by chance for a few minutes, picking wild flowers, and had seized her in forcible
but loving arms and carried her home. Had Lucy not been such a silent, docile child, it could
never have happened; but she was a mere little limp thing in the grasp of the over-loving,
deprived mother who thought she had gotten back her own beloved Viola May.

When Jim Patterson, big-eyed and pale, looked in at the Thomas door, there sat Sarah Thomas,
a large, unkempt, wild-visaged, but gentle creature, holding little Lucy and cuddling her,
while Lucy, shrinking away as far as she was able, kept her big, dark eyes of wonder and fear
upon the woman's face. And all around were clustered the Thomas children, unkempt as their
mother, a gentle but degenerate brood, all of them believing what their mother said. Viola
May had come home again. Silas Thomas was not there; he was trudging slowly homeward from a
job of wood-cutting. Jim saw only the mother, little Lucy, and that poor little flock of children
gazing in wonder and awe. Jim rushed in and faced Sarah Thomas. "Give me little Lucy!" said
he, as fiercely as any man. But he reckoned without the unreasoning love of a mother. Sarah
only held little Lucy faster, and the poor little girl rolled appealing eyes at him over that
brawny, grasping arm of affection.

Jim raced for help, and it was not long before it came. Little Lucy rode home in the victoria,
seated in Sally Patterson's lap. "Mother, you take her," Jim had pleaded; and Sally, in the
face and eyes of Madame, had gathered the little trembling creature into her arms. In her heart
she had not much of an opinion of any woman who had allowed such a darling little girl out
of her sight for a moment. Madame accepted a seat in another carriage and rode home, explaining
and sniffing and inwardly resolving never again to have a straw-ride.

Jim stood on the step of the victoria all the way home. They passed poor Miss Martha Rose,
still faring toward the grove, and nobody noticed her, for the second time. She did not turn
back until the straw-wagon, which formed the tail of the little procession, reached her. That
she halted with mad waves of her parasol, and, when told that little Lucy was found, refused
a seat on the straw because she did not wish to rumple her best gown and turned about and fared
home again.

The rectory was reached before Cyril Rose's house, and Cyril yielded gratefully to Sally Patterson's
proposition that she take the little girl with her, give her dinner, see that she was washed
and brushed and freed from possible contamination from the Thomases, who were not a cleanly
lot, and later brought home in the rector's carriage. However, little Lucy stayed all night
at the rectory. She had a bath; her lovely, misty hair was brushed; she was fed and petted;
and finally Sally Patterson telephoned for permission to keep her overnight. By that time poor
Martha had reached home and was busily brushing her best dress.

After dinner, little Lucy, very happy and quite restored, sat in Sally Patterson's lap on the
veranda, while Jim hovered near. His innocent boy-love made him feel as if he had wings. But
his wings only bore him to failure, before an earlier and mightier force of love than his young
heart could yet compass for even such a darling as little Lucy. He sat on the veranda step
and gazed eagerly and rapturously at little Lucy on his mother's lap, and the desire to have
her away from other loves came over him. He saw the fireflies dancing in swarms on the lawn,
and a favorite sport of the children of the village occurred to him.

"Say, little Lucy," said Jim.

Little Lucy looked up with big, dark eyes under her mist of hair, as she nestled against Sally
Patterson's shoulder.

"Say, let's chase fireflies, little Lucy."

"Do you want to chase fireflies with Jim, darling?" asked Sally.

Little Lucy nestled closer. "I would rather stay with you," said she in her meek flute of a
voice, and she gazed up at Sally with the look which she might have given the mother she had lost.

Sally kissed her and laughed. Then she reached down a fond hand and patted her boy's head.
"Never mind, Jim," said Sally. "Mothers have to come first."

NOBLESSE

MARGARET LEE encountered in her late middle age the rather singular strait of being entirely
alone in the world. She was unmarried, and as far as relatives were concerned, she had none
except those connected with her by ties not of blood, but by marriage.

Margaret had not married when her flesh had been comparative; later, when it had become superlative,
she had no opportunities to marry. Life would have been hard enough for Margaret under any
circumstances, but it was especially hard, living, as she did, with her father's stepdaughter
and that daughter's husband.

Margaret's stepmother had been a child in spite of her two marriages, and a very silly, although
pretty child. The daughter, Camille, was like her, although not so pretty, and the man whom
Camille had married was what Margaret had been taught to regard as "common." His business pursuits
were irregular and partook of mystery. He always smoked cigarettes and chewed gum. He wore
loud shirts and a diamond scarf-pin which had upon him the appearance of stolen goods. The
gem had belonged to Margaret's own mother, but when Camille expressed a desire to present it
to Jack Desmond, Margaret had yielded with no outward hesitation, but afterward she wept miserably
over its loss when alone in her room. The spirit had gone out of Margaret, the little which
she had possessed. She had always been a gentle, sensitive creature, and was almost helpless
before the wishes of others.

After all, it had been a long time since Margaret had been able to force the ring even upon
her little finger, but she had derived a small pleasure from the reflection that she owned
it in its faded velvet box, hidden under laces in her top bureau drawer. She did not like to
see it blazing forth from the tie of this very ordinary young man who had married Camille.
Margaret had a gentle, high-bred contempt for Jack Desmond, but at the same time a vague fear
of him. Jack had a measure of unscrupulous business shrewdness, which spared nothing and nobody,
and that in spite of the fact that he had not succeeded.

Margaret owned the old Lee place, which had been magnificent, but of late years the expenditures
had been reduced and it had deteriorated. The conservatories had been closed. There was only
one horse in the stable. Jack had bought him. He was a wornout trotter with legs carefully
bandaged. Jack drove him at reckless speed, not considering those slender, braceleted legs.
Jack had a racing-gig, and when in it, with striped coat, cap on one side, cigarette in mouth,
lines held taut, skimming along the roads in clouds of dust, he thought himself the man and
true sportsman which he was not. Some of the old Lee silver had paid for that waning trotter.

Camille adored Jack, and cared for no associations, no society, for which he was not suited.
Before the trotter was bought she told Margaret that the kind of dinners which she was able
to give in Fairhill were awfully slow. "If we could afford to have some men out from the city,
some nice fellers that Jack knows, it would be worth while," said she, "but we have grown so
hard up we can't do a thing to make it worth their while. Those men haven't got any use for
a back-number old place like this. We can't take them round in autos, nor give them a chance
at cards, for Jack couldn't pay if he lost, and Jack is awful honorable. We can't have the
right kind of folks here for any fun. I don't propose to ask the rector and his wife, and old
Mr. Harvey, or people like the Leaches."

"The Leaches are a very good old family," said Margaret, feebly.

"I don't care for good old families when they are so slow," retorted Camille. "The fellers
we could have here, if we were rich enough, come from fine families, but they are up-to-date.
It's no use hanging on to old silver dishes we never use and that I don't intend to spoil my
hands shining. Poor Jack don't have much fun, anyway. If he wants that trotter--he says it's
going dirt cheap--I think it's mean he can't have it, instead of your hanging on to a lot of
out-of-style old silver; so there."

Two generations ago there had been French blood in Camille's family. She put on her clothes
beautifully; she had a dark, rather fine-featured, alert little face, which gave a wrong impression,
for she was essentially vulgar. Sometimes poor Margaret Lee wished that Camille had been definitely
vicious, if only she might be possessed of more of the characteristics of breeding. Camille
so irritated Margaret in those somewhat abstruse traits called sensibilities that she felt
as if she were living with a sort of spiritual nutmeg-grater. Seldom did Camille speak that
she did not jar Margaret, although unconsciously. Camille meant to be kind to the stout woman,
whom she pitied as far as she was capable of pitying without understanding. She realized that
it must be horrible to be no longer young, and so stout that one was fairly monstrous, but
how horrible she could not with her mentality conceive. Jack also meant to be kind. He was
not of the brutal--that is, intentionally brutal--type, but he had a shrewd eye to the betterment
of himself, and no realization of the torture he inflicted upon those who opposed that betterment.

For a long time matters had been worse than usual financially in the Lee house. The sisters
had been left in charge of the sadly dwindled estate, and had depended upon the judgment, or
lack of judgment, of Jack. He approved of taking your chances and striking for larger income.
The few good old grandfather securities had been sold, and wild ones from the very jungle of
commerce had been substituted. Jack, like most of his type, while shrewd, was as credulous
as a child. He lied himself, and expected all men to tell him the truth. Camille at his bidding
mortgaged the old place, and Margaret dared not oppose. Taxes were not paid; interest was not
paid; credit was exhausted. Then the house was put up at public auction, and brought little
more than sufficient to pay the creditors. Jack took the balance and staked it in a few games
of chance, and of course lost. The weary trotter stumbled one day and had to be shot. Jack
became desperate. He frightened Camille. He was suddenly morose. He bade Camille pack, and
Margaret also, and they obeyed. Camille stowed away her crumpled finery in the bulging old
trunks, and Margaret folded daintily her few remnants of past treasures. She had an old silk
gown or two, which resisted with their rich honesty the inroads of time, and a few pieces of
old lace, which Camille understood no better than she understood their owner.

Then Margaret and the Desmonds went to the city and lived in a horrible, tawdry little flat
in a tawdry locality. Jack roared with bitter mirth when he saw poor Margaret forced to enter
her tiny room sidewise; Camille laughed also, although she chided Jack gently. "Mean of you
to make fun of poor Margaret, Jacky dear," she said.

For a few weeks Margaret's life in that flat was horrible; then it became still worse. Margaret
nearly filled with her weary, ridiculous bulk her little room, and she remained there most
of the time, although it was sunny and noisy, its one window giving on a courtyard strung with
clothes-lines and teeming with boisterous life. Camille and Jack went trolley-riding, and made
shift to entertain a little, merry but questionable people, who gave them passes to vaudeville
and entertained in their turn until the small hours. Unquestionably these people suggested
to Jack Desmond the scheme which spelled tragedy to Margaret.

She always remembered one little dark man with keen eyes who had seen her disappearing through
her door of a Sunday night when all these gay, bedraggled birds were at liberty and the fun
ran high. "Great Scott!" the man had said, and Margaret had heard him demand of Jack that she
be recalled. She obeyed, and the man was introduced, also the other members of the party. Margaret
Lee stood in the midst of this throng and heard their repressed titters of mirth at her appearance.
Everybody there was in good humor with the exception of Jack, who was still nursing his bad
luck, and the little dark man, whom Jack owed. The eyes of Jack and the little dark man made
Margaret cold with a terror of something, she knew not what. Before that terror the shame and
mortification of her exhibition to that merry company was of no import.

She stood among them, silent, immense, clad in her dark purple silk gown spread over a great
hoopskirt. A real lace collar lay softly over her enormous, billowing shoulders; real lace
ruffles lay over her great, shapeless hands. Her face, the delicacy of whose features was veiled
with flesh, flushed and paled. Not even flesh could subdue the sad brilliancy of her dark-blue
eyes, fixed inward upon her own sad state, unregardful of the company. She made an indefinite
murmur of response to the salutations given her, and then retreated. She heard the roar of
laughter after she had squeezed through the door of her room. Then she heard eager conversation,
of which she did not catch the real import, but which terrified her with chance expressions.
She was quite sure that she was the subject of that eager discussion. She was quite sure that
it boded her no good.

In a few days she knew the worst; and the worst was beyond her utmost imaginings. This was
before the days of moving-picture shows; it was the day of humiliating spectacles of deformities,
when inventions of amusements for the people had not progressed. It was the day of exhibitions
of sad freaks of nature, calculated to provoke tears rather than laughter in the healthy-minded,
and poor Margaret Lee was a chosen victim. Camille informed her in a few words of her fate.
Camille was sorry for her, although not in the least understanding why she was sorry. She realized
dimly that Margaret would be distressed, but she was unable from her narrow point of view to
comprehend fully the whole tragedy.

"Jack has gone broke," stated Camille. "He owes Bill Stark a pile, and he can't pay a cent
of it; and Jack's sense of honor about a poker debt is about the biggest thing in his character.
Jack has got to pay. And Bill has a little circus, going to travel all summer, and he's offered
big money for you. Jack can pay Bill what he owes him, and we'll have enough to live on, and
have lots of fun going around. You hadn't ought to make a fuss about it."

Margaret, pale as death, stared at the girl, pertly slim, and common and pretty, who stared
back laughingly, although still with the glimmer of uncomprehending pity in her black eyes.

"What does--he--want--me--for?" gasped Margaret.

"For a show, because you are so big," replied Camille. "You will make us all rich, Margaret.
Ain't it nice?"

Then Camille screamed, the shrill raucous scream of the women of her type, for Margaret had
fallen back in a dead faint, her immense bulk inert in her chair. Jack came running in alarm.
Margaret had suddenly gained value in his shrewd eyes. He was as pale as she.

Finally Margaret raised her head, opened her miserable eyes, and regained her consciousness
of herself and what lay before her. There was no course open but submission. She knew that
from the first. All three faced destitution; she was the one financial asset, she and her poor
flesh. She had to face it, and with what dignity she could muster.

Margaret had great piety. She kept constantly before her mental vision the fact in which she
believed, that the world which she found so hard, and which put her to unspeakable torture,
was not all.

A week elapsed before the wretched little show of which she was to be a member went on the
road, and night after night she prayed. She besieged her God for strength. She never prayed
for respite. Her realization of the situation and her lofty resolution prevented that. The
awful, ridiculous combat was before her; there was no evasion; she prayed only for the strength
which leads to victory.

However, when the time came, it was all worse than she had imagined. How could a woman gently
born and bred conceive of the horrible ignominy of such a life? She was dragged hither and
yon, to this and that little town. She traveled through sweltering heat on jolting trains;
she slept in tents; she lived--she, Margaret Lee--on terms of equality with the common and
the vulgar. Daily her absurd unwieldiness was exhibited to crowds screaming with laughter.
Even her faith wavered. It seemed to her that there was nothing for evermore beyond those staring,
jeering faces of silly mirth and delight at sight of her, seated in two chairs, clad in a pink
spangled dress, her vast shoulders bare and sparkling with a tawdry necklace, her great, bare
arms covered with brass bracelets, her hands incased in short, white kid gloves, over the fingers
of which she wore a number of rings--stage properties.

Margaret became a horror to herself. At times it seemed to her that she was in the way of fairly
losing her own identity. It mattered little that Camille and Jack were very kind to her, that
they showed her the nice things which her terrible earnings had enabled them to have. She sat
in her two chairs--the two chairs proved a most successful advertisement--with her two kid-cushiony
hands clenched in her pink spangled lap, and she suffered agony of soul, which made her inner
self stern and terrible, behind that great pink mask of face. And nobody realized until one
sultry day when the show opened at a village in a pocket of green hills--indeed, its name was
Greenhill--and Sydney Lord went to see it.

Margaret, who had schooled herself to look upon her audience as if they were not, suddenly
comprehended among them another soul who understood her own. She met the eyes of the man, and
a wonderful comfort, as of a cool breeze blowing over the face of clear water, came to her.
She knew that the man understood. She knew that she had his fullest sympathy. She saw also
a comrade in the toils of comic tragedy, for Sydney Lord was in the same case. He was a mountain
of flesh. As a matter of fact, had he not been known in Greenhill and respected as a man of
weight of character as well as of body, and of an old family, he would have rivaled Margaret.
Beside him sat an elderly woman, sweet-faced, slightly bent as to her slender shoulders, as
if with a chronic attitude of submission. She was Sydney's widowed sister, Ellen Waters. She
lived with her brother and kept his house, and had no will other than his.

Sydney Lord and his sister remained when the rest of the audience had drifted out, after the
privileged hand-shakes with the queen of the show. Every time a coarse, rustic hand reached
familiarly after Margaret's, Sydney shrank.

He motioned his sister to remain seated when he approached the stage. Jack Desmond, who had
been exploiting Margaret, gazed at him with admiring curiosity. Sydney waved him away with
a commanding gesture. "I wish to speak to her a moment. Pray leave the tent," he said, and
Jack obeyed. People always obeyed Sydney Lord.

Sydney stood before Margaret, and he saw the clear crystal, which was herself, within all the
flesh, clad in tawdry raiment, and she knew that he saw it.

"Good God!" said Sydney, "you are a lady!"

He continued to gaze at her, and his eyes, large and brown, became blurred; at the same time
his mouth tightened.

"How came you to be in such a place as this?" demanded Sydney. He spoke almost as if he were
angry with her.

Margaret explained briefly.

"It is an outrage," declared Sydney. He said it, however, rather absently. He was reflecting.
"Where do you live?" he asked.

"Here."

"You mean--?"

"They make up a bed for me here, after the people have gone."

"And I suppose you had--before this--a comfortable house."

"The house which my grandfather Lee owned, the old Lee mansion-house, before we went to the
city. It was a very fine old Colonial house," explained Margaret, in her finely modulated voice.

"And you had a good room?"

"The southeast chamber had always been mine. It was very large, and the furniture was old Spanish
mahogany."

"And now--" said Sydney.

"Yes," said Margaret. She looked at him, and her serious blue eyes seemed to see past him.
"It will not last," she said.

"What do you mean?"

"I try to learn a lesson. I am a child in the school of God. My lesson is one that always ends
in peace."

"Good God!" said Sydney.

He motioned to his sister, and Ellen approached in a frightened fashion. Her brother could
do no wrong, but this was the unusual, and alarmed her.

"This lady--" began Sydney.

"Miss Lee," said Margaret. "I was never married. I am Miss Margaret Lee."

"This," said Sydney, "is my sister Ellen, Mrs. Waters. Ellen, I wish you to meet Miss Lee."

Ellen took into her own Margaret's hand, and said feebly that it was a beautiful day and she
hoped Miss Lee found Greenhill a pleasant place to--visit.

Sydney moved slowly out of the tent and found Jack Desmond. He was standing near with Camille,
who looked her best in a pale-blue summer silk and a black hat trimmed with roses. Jack and
Camille never really knew how the great man had managed, but presently Margaret had gone away
with him and his sister.

Jack and Camille looked at each other.

"Oh, Jack, ought you to have let her go?" said Camille.

"What made you let her go?" asked Jack.

"I--don't know. I couldn't say anything. That man has a tremendous way with him. Goodness!"

"He is all right here in the place, anyhow," said Jack. "They look up to him. He is a big-bug
here. Comes of a family like Margaret's, though he hasn't got much money. Some chaps were braggin'
that they had a bigger show than her right here, and I found out."

"Suppose," said Camille, "Margaret does not come back?"

"He could not keep her without bein' arrested," declared Jack, but he looked uneasy. He had,
however, looked uneasy for some time. The fact was, Margaret had been very gradually losing
weight. Moreover, she was not well. That very night, after the show was over, Bill Stark, the
little dark man, had a talk with the Desmonds about it.

"Truth is, before long, if you don't look out, you'll have to pad her," said Bill; "and giants
don't amount to a row of pins after that begins."

Camille looked worried and sulky. "She ain't very well, anyhow," said she. "I ain't going to
kill Margaret."

"It's a good thing she's got a chance to have a night's rest in a house," said Bill Stark.

"The fat man has asked her to stay with him and his sister while the show is here," said Jack.

"The sister invited her," said Camille, with a little stiffness. She was common, but she had
lived with Lees, and her mother had married a Lee. She knew what was due Margaret, and also
due herself.

"The truth is," said Camille, "this is an awful sort of life for a woman like Margaret. She
and her folks were never used to anything like it."

"Why didn't you make your beauty husband hustle and take care of her and you, then?" demanded
Bill, who admired Camille, and disliked her because she had no eyes for him.

"My husband has been unfortunate. He has done the best he could," responded Camille. "Come,
Jack; no use talking about it any longer. Guess Margaret will pick up. Come along. I'm tired out."

That night Margaret Lee slept in a sweet chamber with muslin curtains at the windows, in a
massive old mahogany bed, much like hers which had been sacrificed at an auction sale. The
bed-linen was linen, and smelled of lavender. Margaret was too happy to sleep. She lay in the
cool, fragrant sheets and was happy, and convinced of the presence of the God to whom she had
prayed. All night Sydney Lord sat down-stairs in his book-walled sanctum and studied over the
situation. It was a crucial one. The great psychological moment of Sydney Lord's life for knight-errantry
had arrived. He studied the thing from every point of view. There was no romance about it.
These were hard, sordid, tragic, ludicrous facts with which he had to deal. He knew to a nicety
the agonies which Margaret suffered. He knew, because of his own capacity for sufferings of
like stress. "And she is a woman and a lady," he said, aloud.

If Sydney had been rich enough, the matter would have been simple. He could have paid Jack
and Camille enough to quiet them, and Margaret could have lived with him and his sister and
their two old servants. But he was not rich; he was even poor. The price to be paid for Margaret's
liberty was a bitter one, but it was that or nothing. Sydney faced it. He looked about the
room. To him the walls lined with the dull gleams of old books were lovely. There was an oil
portrait of his mother over the mantel-shelf. The weather was warm now, and there was no need
for a hearth fire, but how exquisitely home-like and dear that room could be when the snow
drove outside and there was the leap of flame on the hearth! Sydney was a scholar and a gentleman.
He had led a gentle and sequestered life. Here in his native village there were none to gibe
and sneer. The contrast of the traveling show would be as great for him as it had been for
Margaret, but he was the male of the species, and she the female. Chivalry, racial, harking
back to the beginning of nobility in the human, to its earliest dawn, fired Sydney. The pale
daylight invaded the study. Sydney, as truly as any knight of old, had girded himself, and
with no hope, no thought of reward, for the battle in the eternal service of the strong for
the weak, which makes the true worth of the strong.

There was only one way. Sydney Lord took it. His sister was spared the knowledge of the truth
for a long while. When she knew, she did not lament; since Sydney had taken the course, it
must be right. As for Margaret, not knowing the truth, she yielded. She was really on the verge
of illness. Her spirit was of too fine a strain to enable her body to endure long. When she
was told that she was to remain with Sydney's sister while Sydney went away on business, she
made no objection. A wonderful sense of relief, as of wings of healing being spread under her
despair, was upon her. Camille came to bid her good-by.

"I hope you have a nice visit in this lovely house," said Camille, and kissed her. Camille
was astute, and to be trusted. She did not betray Sydney's confidence. Sydney used a disguise--a
dark wig over his partially bald head and a little make-up-and he traveled about with the show
and sat on three chairs, and shook hands with the gaping crowd, and was curiously happy. It
was discomfort; it was ignominy; it was maddening to support by the exhibition of his physical
deformity a perfectly worthless young couple like Jack and Camille Desmond, but it was all
superbly ennobling for the man himself.

Always as he sat on his three chairs, immense, grotesque--the more grotesque for his splendid
dignity of bearing--there was in his soul of a gallant gentleman the consciousness of that
other, whom he was shielding from a similar ordeal. Compassion and generosity, so great that
they comprehended love itself and excelled its highest type, irradiated the whole being of
the fat man exposed to the gaze of his inferiors. Chivalry, which rendered him almost god-like,
strengthened him for his task. Sydney thought always of Margaret as distinct from her physical
self, a sort of crystalline, angelic soul, with no encumbrance of earth. He achieved a purely
spiritual conception of her. And Margaret, living again her gentle lady life, was likewise
ennobled by a gratitude which transformed her. Always a clear and beautiful soul, she gave
out new lights of character like a jewel in the sun. And she also thought of Sydney as distinct
from his physical self. The consciousness of the two human beings, one of the other, was a
consciousness as of two wonderful lines of good and beauty, moving for ever parallel, separate,
and inseparable in an eternal harmony of spirit.

CORONATION

JIM BENNET had never married. He had passed middle life, and possessed considerable property.
Susan Adkins kept house for him. She was a widow and a very distant relative. Jim had two nieces,
his brother's daughters. One, Alma Beecher, was married; the other, Amanda, was not. The nieces
had naively grasping views concerning their uncle and his property. They stated freely that
they considered him unable to care for it; that a guardian should be appointed and the property
be theirs at once. They consulted Lawyer Thomas Hopkinson with regard to it; they discoursed
at length upon what they claimed to be an idiosyncrasy of Jim's, denoting failing mental powers.

"He keeps a perfect slew of cats, and has a coal fire for them in the woodshed all winter,"
said Amanda.

"Why in thunder shouldn't he keep a fire in the woodshed if he wants to?" demanded Hopkinson.
"I know of no law against it. And there isn't a law in the country regulating the number of
cats a man can keep." Thomas Hopkinson, who was an old friend of Jim's, gave his prominent
chin an upward jerk as he sat in his office arm-chair before his clients.

"There is something besides cats," said Alma

"What?"

"He talks to himself."

"What in creation do you expect the poor man to do? He can't talk to Susan Adkins about a blessed
thing except tidies and pincushions. That woman hasn't a thought in her mind outside her soul's
salvation and fancy-work. Jim has to talk once in a while to keep himself a man. What if he
does talk to himself? I talk to myself. Next thing you will want to be appointed guardian over
me, Amanda."

Hopkinson was a bachelor, and Amanda flushed angrily.

"He wasn't what I call even gentlemanly," she told Alma, when the two were on their way home.

"I suppose Tom Hopkinson thought you were setting your cap at him," retorted Alma. She relished
the dignity of her married state, and enjoyed giving her spinster sister little claws when
occasion called. However, Amanda had a temper of her own, and she could claw back.

"YOU needn't talk," said she. "You only took Joe Beecher when you had given up getting anybody
better. You wanted Tom Hopkinson yourself. I haven't forgotten that blue silk dress you got
and wore to meeting. You needn't talk. You know you got that dress just to make Tom look at
you, and he didn't. You needn't talk."

"I wouldn't have married Tom Hopkinson if he had been the only man on the face of the earth,"
declared Alma with dignity; but she colored hotly.

Amanda sniffed. "Well, as near as I can find out Uncle Jim can go on talking to himself and
keeping cats, and we can't do anything," said she.

When the two women were home, they told Alma's husband, Joe Beecher, about their lack of success.
They were quite heated with their walk and excitement. "I call it a shame," said Alma. "Anybody
knows that poor Uncle Jim would be better off with a guardian."

"Of course," said Amanda. "What man that had a grain of horse sense would do such a crazy thing
as to keep a coal fire in a woodshed?"

"For such a slew of cats, too," said Alma, nodding fiercely.

Alma's husband, Joe Beecher, spoke timidly and undecidedly in the defense. "You know," he said,
"that Mrs. Adkins wouldn't have those cats in the house, and cats mostly like to sit round
where it's warm."

His wife regarded him. Her nose wrinkled. "I suppose next thing YOU'LL be wanting to have a
cat round where it's warm, right under my feet, with all I have to do," said she. Her voice
had an actual acidity of sound.

Joe gasped. He was a large man with a constant expression of wondering inquiry. It was the
expression of his babyhood; he had never lost it, and it was an expression which revealed truly
the state of his mind. Always had Joe Beecher wondered, first of all at finding himself in
the world at all, then at the various happenings of existence. He probably wondered more about
the fact of his marriage with Alma Bennet than anything else, although he never betrayed his
wonder. He was always painfully anxious to please his wife, of whom he stood in awe. Now he
hastened to reply: "Why, no, Alma; of course I won't."

"Because," said Alma, "I haven't come to my time of life, through all the trials I've had,
to be taking any chances of breaking my bones over any miserable, furry, four-footed animal
that wouldn't catch a mouse if one run right under her nose."

"I don't want any cat," repeated Joe, miserably. His fear and awe of the two women increased.
When his sister-in-law turned upon him he fairly cringed.

"Cats!" said Amanda. Then she sniffed. The sniff was worse than speech.

Joe repeated in a mumble that he didn't want any cats, and went out, closing the door softly
after him, as he had been taught. However, he was entirely sure, in the depths of his subjugated
masculine mind, that his wife and her sister had no legal authority whatever to interfere with
their uncle's right to keep a hundred coal fires in his woodshed, for a thousand cats. He always
had an inner sense of glee when he heard the two women talk over the matter. Once Amanda had
declared that she did not believe that Tom Hopkinson knew much about law, anyway.

"He seems to stand pretty high," Joe ventured with the utmost mildness.

"Yes, he does," admitted Alma, grudgingly.

"It does not follow he knows law," persisted Amanda, "and it MAY follow that he likes cats.
There was that great Maltese tommy brushing round all the time we were in his office, but I
didn't dare shoo him off for fear it might be against the law." Amanda laughed, a very disagreeable
little laugh. Joe said nothing, but inwardly he chuckled. It was the cause of man with man.
He realized a great, even affectionate, understanding of Jim.

The day after his nieces had visited the lawyer's office, Jim was preparing to call on his
friend Edward Hayward, the minister. Before leaving he looked carefully after the fire in the
woodshed. The stove was large. Jim piled on the coal, regardless outwardly that the housekeeper,
Susan Adkins, had slammed the kitchen door to indicate her contempt. Inwardly Jim felt hurt,
but he had felt hurt so long from the same cause that the sensation had become chronic, and
was borne with a gentle patience. Moreover, there was something which troubled him more and
was the reason for his contemplated call on his friend. He evened the coals on the fire with
great care, and replenished from the pail in the icebox the cats' saucers. There was a circle
of clean white saucers around the stove. Jim owned many cats; counting the kittens, there were
probably over twenty. Mrs. Adkins counted them in the sixties. "Those sixty-seven cats," she said.

Jim often gave away cats when he was confident of securing good homes, but supply exceeded
the demand. Now and then tragedies took place in that woodshed. Susan Adkins came bravely to
the front upon these occasions. Quite convinced was Susan Adkins that she had a good home,
and it behooved her to keep it, and she did not in the least object to drowning, now and then,
a few very young kittens. She did this with neatness and despatch while Jim walked to the store
on an errand and was supposed to know nothing about it. There was simply not enough room in
his woodshed for the accumulation of cats, although his heart could have held all.

That day, as he poured out the milk, cats of all ages and sizes and colors purred in a softly
padding multitude around his feet, and he regarded them with love. There were tiger cats, Maltese
cats, black-and-white cats, black cats and white cats, tommies and females, and his heart leaped
to meet the pleading mews of all. The saucers were surrounded. Little pink tongues lapped.
"Pretty pussy! pretty pussy!" cooed Jim, addressing them in general. He put on his overcoat
and hat, which he kept on a peg behind the door. Jim had an arm-chair in the woodshed. He always
sat there when he smoked; Susan Adkins demurred at his smoking in the house, which she kept
so nice, and Jim did not dream of rebellion. He never questioned the right of a woman to bar
tobacco smoke from a house. Before leaving he refilled some of the saucers. He was not sure
that all of the cats were there; some might be afield, hunting, and he wished them to find
refreshment when they returned. He stroked the splendid striped back of a great tiger tommy
which filled his armchair. This cat was his special pet. He fastened the outer shed door with
a bit of rope in order that it might not blow entirely open, and yet allow his feline friends
to pass, should they choose. Then he went out.

The day was clear, with a sharp breath of frost. The fields gleamed with frost, offering to
the eye a fine shimmer as of diamond-dust under the brilliant blue sky, overspread in places
with a dapple of little white clouds.

"White frost and mackerel sky; going to be falling weather," Jim said, aloud, as he went out
of the yard, crunching the crisp grass under heel.

Susan Adkins at a window saw his lips moving. His talking to himself made her nervous, although
it did not render her distrustful of his sanity. It was fortunate that Susan had not told Jim
that she disliked his habit. In that case he would have deprived himself of that slight solace;
he would not have dreamed of opposing Susan's wishes. Jim had a great pity for the nervous
whims, as he regarded them, of women--a pity so intense and tender that it verged on respect
and veneration. He passed his nieces' house on the way to the minister's, and both were looking
out of windows and saw his lips moving.

"There he goes, talking to himself like a crazy loon," said Amanda.

Alma nodded.

Jim went on, blissfully unconscious. He talked in a quiet monotone; only now and then his voice
rose; only now and then there were accompanying gestures. Jim had a straight mile down the
broad village street to walk before he reached the church and the parsonage beside it.

Jim and the minister had been friends since boyhood. They were graduates and classmates of
the same college. Jim had had unusual educational advantages for a man coming from a simple
family. The front door of the parsonage flew open when Jim entered the gate, and the minister
stood there smiling. He was a tall, thin man with a wide mouth, which either smiled charmingly
or was set with severity. He was as brown and dry as a wayside weed which winter had subdued
as to bloom but could not entirely prostrate with all its icy storms and compelling blasts.
Jim, advancing eagerly toward the warm welcome in the door, was a small man, and bent at that,
but he had a handsome old face, with the rose of youth on the cheeks and the light of youth
in the blue eyes, and the quick changes of youth, before emotions, about the mouth.

"Hullo, Jim!" cried Dr. Edward Hayward. Hayward, for a doctor of divinity, was considered somewhat
lacking in dignity at times; still, he was Dr. Hayward, and the failing was condoned. Moreover,
he was a Hayward, and the Haywards had been, from the memory of the oldest inhabitant, the
great people of the village. Dr. Hayward's house was presided over by his widowed cousin, a
lady of enough dignity to make up for any lack of it in the minister. There were three servants,
besides the old butler who had been Hayward's attendant when he had been a young man in college.
Village people were proud of their minister, with his degree and what they considered an imposing
household retinue.

Hayward led, and Jim followed, to the least pretentious room in the house--not the study proper,
which was lofty, book-lined, and leather-furnished, curtained with broad sweeps of crimson
damask, but a little shabby place back of it, accessible by a narrow door. The little room
was lined with shelves; they held few books, but a collection of queer and dusty things--strange
weapons, minerals, odds and ends--which the minister loved and with which his lady cousin never
interfered.

"Louisa," Hayward had told his cousin when she entered upon her post, "do as you like with
the whole house, but let my little study alone. Let it look as if it had been stirred up with
a garden-rake--that little room is my territory, and no disgrace to you, my dear, if the dust
rises in clouds at every step."

Jim was as fond of the little room as his friend. He entered, and sighed a great sigh of satisfaction
as he sank into the shabby, dusty hollow of a large chair before the hearth fire. Immediately
a black cat leaped into his lap, gazed at him with greenjewel eyes, worked her paws, purred,
settled into a coil, and slept. Jim lit his pipe and threw the match blissfully on the floor.
Dr. Hayward set an electric coffee-urn at its work, for the little room was a curious mixture
of the comfortable old and the comfortable modern.

"Sam shall serve our luncheon in here," he said, with a staid glee.

Jim nodded happily.

"Louisa will not mind," said Hayward. "She is precise, but she has a fine regard for the rights
of the individual, which is most commendable." He seated himself in a companion chair to Jim's,
lit his own pipe, and threw the match on the floor. Occasionally, when the minister was out,
Sam, without orders so to do, cleared the floor of matches.

Hayward smoked and regarded his friend, who looked troubled despite his comfort. "What is it,
Jim?" asked the minister at last.

"I don't know how to do what is right for me to do," replied the little man, and his face,
turned toward his friend, had the puzzled earnestness of a child.

Hayward laughed. It was easily seen that his was the keener mind. In natural endowments there
had never been equality, although there was great similarity of tastes. Jim, despite his education,
often lapsed into the homely vernacular of which he heard so much. An involuntarily imitative
man in externals was Jim, but essentially an original. Jim proceeded.

"You know, Edward, I have never been one to complain," he said, with an almost boyish note
of apology.

"Never complained half enough; that's the trouble," returned the other.

"Well, I overheard something Mis' Adkins said to Mis' Amos Trimmer the other afternoon. Mis'
Trimmer was calling on Mis' Adkins. I couldn't help overhearing unless I went outdoors, and
it was snowing and I had a cold. I wasn't listening."

"Had a right to listen if you wanted to," declared Hayward, irascibly.

"Well, I couldn't help it unless I went outdoors. Mis' Adkins she was in the kitchen making
lightbread for supper, and Mis' Trimmer had sat right down there with her. Mis' Adkins's kitchen
is as clean as a parlor, anyway. Mis' Adkins said to Mis' Trimmer, speaking of me--because
Mis' Trimmer had just asked where I was and Mis' Adkins had said I was out in the woodshed
sitting with the cats and smoking--Mis' Adkins said, 'He's just a doormat, that's what he is.'
Then Mis' Trimmer says, 'The way he lets folks ride over him beats me.' Then Mis' Adkins says
again: 'He's nothing but a door-mat. He lets everybody that wants to just trample on him and
grind their dust into him, and he acts real pleased and grateful.'"

Hayward's face flushed. "Did Mrs. Adkins mention that she was one of the people who used you
for a door-mat?" he demanded.

Jim threw back his head and laughed like a child, with the sweetest sense of unresentful humor.
"Lord bless my soul, Edward," replied Jim, "I don't believe she ever thought of that."

"And at that very minute you, with a hard cold, were sitting out in that draughty shed smoking
because she wouldn't allow you to smoke in your own house!"

"I don't mind that, Edward," said Jim, and laughed again.

"Could you see to read your paper out there, with only that little shed window? And don't you
like to read your paper while you smoke?"

"Oh yes," admitted Jim; "but my! I don't mind little things like that! Mis' Adkins is only
a poor widow woman, and keeping my house nice and not having it smell of tobacco is all she's
got. They can talk about women's rights--I feel as if they ought to have them fast enough,
if they want them, poor things; a woman has a hard row to hoe, and will have, if she gets all
the rights in creation. But I guess the rights they'd find it hardest to give up would be the
rights to have men look after them just a little more than they look after other men, just
because they are women. When I think of Annie Berry--the girl I was going to marry, you know,
if she hadn't died--I feel as if I couldn't do enough for another woman. Lord! I'm glad to
sit out in the woodshed and smoke. Mis' Adkins is pretty good-natured to stand all the cats."

Then the coffee boiled, and Hayward poured out some for Jim and himself. He had a little silver
service at hand, and willow-ware cups and saucers. Presently Sam appeared, and Hayward gave
orders concerning luncheon.

"Tell Miss Louisa we are to have it served here," said he, "and mind, Sam, the chops are to
be thick and cooked the way we like them; and don't forget the East India chutney, Sam."

"It does seem rather a pity that you cannot have chutney at home with your chops, when you
are so fond of it," remarked Hayward when Sam had gone.

"Mis' Adkins says it will give me liver trouble, and she isn't strong enough to nurse."

"So you have to eat her ketchup?"

"Well, she doesn't put seasoning in it," admitted Jim. "But Mis' Adkins doesn't like seasoning
herself, and I don't mind."

"And I know the chops are never cut thick, the way we like them."

"Mis' Adkins likes her meat well done, and she can't get such thick chops well done. I suppose
our chops are rather thin, but I don't mind."

"Beefsteak and chops, both cut thin, and fried up like sole-leather. I know!" said Dr. Hayward,
and he stamped his foot with unregenerate force.

"I don't mind a bit, Edward."

"You ought to mind, when it is your own house, and you buy the food and pay your housekeeper.
It is an outrage!"

"I don't mind, really, Edward."

Dr. Hayward regarded Jim with a curious expression compounded of love, anger, and contempt.
"Any more talk of legal proceedings?" he asked, brusquely.

Jim flushed. "Tom ought not to tell of that."

"Yes, he ought; he ought to tell it all over town. He doesn't, but he ought. It is an outrage!
Here you have been all these years supporting your nieces, and they are working away like field-mice,
burrowing under your generosity, trying to get a chance to take action and appropriate your
property and have you put under a guardian."

"I don't mind a bit," said Jim; "but--"

The other man looked inquiringly at him, and, seeing a pitiful working of his friend's face,
he jumped up and got a little jar from a shelf. "We will drop the whole thing until we have
had our chops and chutney," said he. "You are right; it is not worth minding. Here is a new
brand of tobacco I want you to try. I don't half like it, myself, but you may."

Jim, with a pleased smile, reached out for the tobacco, and the two men smoked until Sam brought
the luncheon. It was well cooked and well served on an antique table. Jim was thoroughly happy.
It was not until the luncheon was over and another pipe smoked that the troubled, perplexed
expression returned to his face.

"Now," said Hayward, "out with it!"

"It is only the old affair about Alma and Amanda, but now it has taken on a sort of new aspect."

"What do you mean by a new aspect?"

"It seems," said Jim, slowly, "as if they were making it so I couldn't do for them."

Hayward stamped his foot. "That does sound new," he said, dryly. "I never thought Alma Beecher
or Amanda Bennet ever objected to have you do for them."

"Well," said Jim, "perhaps they don't now, but they want me to do it in their own way. They
don't want to feel as if I was giving and they taking; they want it to seem the other way round.
You see, if I were to deed over my property to them, and then they allowance me, they would
feel as if they were doing the giving."

"Jim, you wouldn't be such a fool as that?"

"No, I wouldn't," replied Jim, simply. "They wouldn't know how to take care of it, and Mis'
Adkins would be left to shift for herself. Joe Beecher is real good-hearted, but he always
lost every dollar he touched. No, there wouldn't be any sense in that. I don't mean to give
in, but I do feel pretty well worked up over it."

"What have they said to you?"

Jim hesitated.

"Out with it, now. One thing you may be sure of: nothing that you can tell me will alter my
opinion of your two nieces for the worse. As for poor Joe Beecher, there is no opinion, one
way or the other. What did they say?"

Jim regarded his friend with a curiously sweet, far-off expression. "Edward," he said, "sometimes
I believe that the greatest thing a man's friends can do for him is to drive him into a corner
with God; to be so unjust to him that they make him understand that God is all that mortal
man is meant to have, and that is why he finds out that most people, especially the ones he
does for, don't care for him."

Hayward looked solemnly and tenderly at the other's almost rapt face. "You are right, I suppose,
old man," said he; "but what did they do?"

"They called me in there about a week ago and gave me an awful talking to."

"About what?"

Jim looked at his friend with dignity. "They were two women talking, and they went into little
matters not worth repeating," said he. "All is-they seemed to blame me for everything I had
ever done for them, and for everything I had ever done, anyway. They seemed to blame me for
being born and living, and, most of all, for doing anything for them."

"It is an outrage!" declared Hayward. "Can't you see it?"

"I can't seem to see anything plain about it," returned Jim, in a bewildered way. "I always
supposed a man had to do something bad to be given a talking to; but it isn't so much that,
and I don't bear any malice against them. They are only two women, and they are nervous. What
worries me is, they do need things, and they can't get on and be comfortable unless I do for
them; but if they are going to feel that way about it, it seems to cut me off from doing, and
that does worry me, Edward."

The other man stamped. "Jim Bennet," he said, "they have talked, and now I am going to."

"You, Edward?"

"Yes, I am. It is entirely true what those two women, Susan Adkins and Mrs. Trimmer, said about
you. You ARE a door-mat, and you ought to be ashamed of yourself for it. A man should be a
man, and not a door-mat. It is the worst thing in the world for people to walk over him and
trample him. It does them much more harm than it does him. In the end the trampler is much
worse off than the trampled upon. Jim Bennet, your being a doormat may cost other people their
souls' salvation. You are selfish in the grain to be a door-mat."

Jim turned pale. His child-like face looked suddenly old with his mental effort to grasp the
other's meaning. In fact, he was a child--one of the little ones of the world--although he
had lived the span of a man's life. Now one of the hardest problems of the elders of the world
was presented to him. "You mean--" he said, faintly.

"I mean, Jim, that for the sake of other people, if not for your own sake, you ought to stop
being a door-mat and be a man in this world of men."

"What do you want me to do?"

"I want you to go straight to those nieces of yours and tell them the truth. You know what
your wrongs are as well as I do. You know what those two women are as well as I do. They keep
the letter of the Ten Commandments--that is right. They attend my church--that is right. They
scour the outside of the platter until it is bright enough to blind those people who don't
understand them; but inwardly they are petty, ravening wolves of greed and ingratitude. Go
and tell them; they don't know themselves. Show them what they are. It is your Christian duty."

"You don't mean for me to stop doing for them?"

"I certainly do mean just that--for a while, anyway."

"They can't possibly get along, Edward; they will suffer."

"They have a little money, haven't they?"

"Only a little in savings-bank. The interest pays their taxes."

"And you gave them that?"

Jim colored.

"Very well, their taxes are paid for this year; let them use that money. They will not suffer,
except in their feelings, and that is where they ought to suffer. Man, you would spoil all
the work of the Lord by your selfish tenderness toward sinners!"

"They aren't sinners."

"Yes, they are--spiritual sinners, the worst kind in the world. Now--"

"You don't mean for me to go now?"

"Yes, I do--now. If you don't go now you never will. Then, afterward, I want you to go home
and sit in your best parlor and smoke, and have all your cats in there, too."

Jim gasped. "But, Edward! Mis' Adkins--"

"I don't care about Mrs. Adkins. She isn't as bad as the rest, but she needs her little lesson,
too."

"Edward, the way that poor woman works to keep the house nice--and she don't like the smell
of tobacco smoke."

"Never mind whether she likes it or not. You smoke."

"And she don't like cats."

"Never mind. Now you go."

Jim stood up. There was a curious change in his rosy, child-like face. There was a species
of quickening. He looked at once older and more alert. His friend's words had charged him as
with electricity. When he went down the street he looked taller.

Amanda Bennet and Alma Beecher, sitting sewing at their street windows, made this mistake.

"That isn't Uncle Jim," said Amanda. "That man is a head taller, but he looks a little like him."

"It can't be Uncle Jim," agreed Alma. Then both started.

"It is Uncle Jim, and he is coming here," said Amanda.

Jim entered. Nobody except himself, his nieces, and Joe Beecher ever knew exactly what happened,
what was the aspect of the door-mat erected to human life, of the worm turned to menace. It
must have savored of horror, as do all meek and downtrodden things when they gain, driven to
bay, the strength to do battle. It must have savored of the god-like, when the man who had
borne with patience, dignity, and sorrow for them the stings of lesser things because they
were lesser things, at last arose and revealed himself superior, with a great height of the
spirit, with the power to crush.

When Jim stopped talking and went home, two pale, shocked faces of women gazed after him from
the windows. Joe Beecher was sobbing like a child. Finally his wife turned her frightened face
upon him, glad to have still some one to intimidate.

"For goodness' sake, Joe Beecher, stop crying like a baby," said she, but she spoke in a queer
whisper, for her lips were stiff.

Joe stood up and made for the door.

"Where are you going?" asked his wife.

"Going to get a job somewhere," replied Joe, and went. Soon the women saw him driving a neighbor's
cart up the street.

"He's going to cart gravel for John Leach's new sidewalk!" gasped Alma.

"Why don't you stop him?" cried her sister. "You can't have your husband driving a tip-cart
for John Leach. Stop him, Alma!"

"I can't stop him," moaned Alma. "I don't feel as if I could stop anything."

Her sister gazed at her, and the same expression was on both faces, making them more than sisters
of the flesh. Both saw before them a stern boundary wall against which they might press in
vain for the rest of their lives, and both saw the same sins of their hearts.

Meantime Jim Bennet was seated in his best parlor and Susan Adkins was whispering to Mrs. Trimmer
out in the kitchen.

"I don't know whether he's gone stark, staring mad or not," whispered Susan, "but he's in the
parlor smoking his worst old pipe, and that big tiger tommy is sitting in his lap, and he's
let in all the other cats, and they're nosing round, and I don't dare drive 'em out. I took
up the broom, then I put it away again. I never knew Mr. Bennet to act so. I can't think what's
got into him."

"Did he say anything?"

"No, he didn't say much of anything, but he said it in a way that made my flesh fairly creep.
Says he, 'As long as this is my house and my furniture and my cats, Mis' Adkins, I think I'll
sit down in the parlor, where I can see to read my paper and smoke at the same time.' Then
he holds the kitchen door open, and he calls, 'Kitty, kitty, kitty!' and that great tiger tommy
comes in with his tail up, rubbing round his legs, and all the other cats followed after. I
shut the door before these last ones got into the parlor." Susan Adkins regarded malevolently
the three tortoise-shell cats of three generations and various stages of growth, one Maltese
settled in a purring round of comfort with four kittens, and one perfectly black cat, which
sat glaring at her with beryl-colored eyes.

"That black cat looks evil," said Mrs. Trimmer.

"Yes, he does. I don't know why I didn't drown him when he was a kitten."

"Why didn't you drown all those Malty kittens?"

"The old cat hid them away until they were too big. Then he wouldn't let me. What do you suppose
has come to him? Just smell that awful pipe!"

"Men do take queer streaks every now and then," said Mrs. Trimmer. "My husband used to, and
he was as good as they make 'em, poor man. He would eat sugar on his beefsteak, for one thing.
The first time I saw him do it I was scared. I thought he was plum crazy, but afterward I found
out it was just because he was a man, and his ma hadn't wanted him to eat sugar when he was
a boy. Mr. Bennet will get over it."

"He don't act as if he would."

"Oh yes, he will. Jim Bennet never stuck to anything but being Jim Bennet for very long in
his life, and this ain't being Jim Bennet."

"He is a very good man," said Susan with a somewhat apologetic tone.

"He's too good."

"He's too good to cats."

"Seems to me he's too good to 'most everybody. Think what he has done for Amanda and Alma,
and how they act!"

"Yes, they are ungrateful and real mean to him; and I feel sometimes as if I would like to
tell them just what I think of them," said Susan Adkins. "Poor man, there he is, studying all
the time what he can do for people, and he don't get very much himself."

Mrs. Trimmer arose to take leave. She had a long, sallow face, capable of a sarcastic smile.
"Then," said she, "if I were you I wouldn't begrudge him a chair in the parlor and a chance
to read and smoke and hold a pussy-cat."

"Who said I was begrudging it? I can air out the parlor when he's got over the notion."

"Well, he will, so you needn't worry," said Mrs. Trimmer. As she went down the street she could
see Jim's profile beside the parlor window, and she smiled her sarcastic smile, which was not
altogether unpleasant. "He's stopped smoking, and he ain't reading," she told herself. "It
won't be very long before he's Jim Bennet again."

But it was longer than she anticipated, for Jim's will was propped by Edward Hayward's. Edward
kept Jim to his standpoint for weeks, until a few days before Christmas. Then came self-assertion,
that self-assertion of negation which was all that Jim possessed in such a crisis. He called
upon Dr. Hayward; the two were together in the little study for nearly an hour, and talk ran
high, then Jim prevailed.

"It's no use, Edward," he said; "a man can't be made over when he's cut and dried in one fashion,
the way I am. Maybe I'm doing wrong, but to me it looks like doing right, and there's something
in the Bible about every man having his own right and wrong. If what you say is true, and I
am hindering the Lord Almighty in His work, then it is for Him to stop me. He can do it. But
meantime I've got to go on doing the way I always have. Joe has been trying to drive that tip-cart,
and the horse ran away with him twice. Then he let the cart fall on his foot and mash one of
his toes, and he can hardly get round, and Amanda and Alma don't dare touch that money in the
bank for fear of not having enough to pay the taxes next year in case I don't help them. They
only had a little money on hand when I gave them that talking to, and Christmas is 'most here,
and they haven't got things they really need. Amanda's coat that she wore to meeting last Sunday
didn't look very warm to me, and poor Alma had her furs chewed up by the Leach dog, and she's
going without any. They need lots of things. And poor Mis' Adkins is 'most sick with tobacco
smoke. I can see it, though she doesn't say anything, and the nice parlor curtains are full
of it, and cat hairs are all over things. I can't hold out any longer, Edward. Maybe I am a
door-mat; and if I am, and it is wicked, may the Lord forgive me, for I've got to keep right
on being a door-mat."

Hayward sighed and lighted his pipe. However, he had given up and connived with Jim.

On Christmas eve the two men were in hiding behind a clump of cedars in the front yard of Jim's
nieces' house. They watched the expressman deliver a great load of boxes and packages. Jim
drew a breath of joyous relief.

"They are taking them in," he whispered--"they are taking them in, Edward!"

Hayward looked down at the dim face of the man beside him, and something akin to fear entered
his heart. He saw the face of a lifelong friend, but he saw something in it which he had never
recognized before. He saw the face of one of the children of heaven, giving only for the sake
of the need of others, and glorifying the gifts with the love and pity of an angel.

"I was afraid they wouldn't take them!" whispered Jim, and his watching face was beautiful,
although it was only the face of a little, old man of a little village, with no great gift
of intellect. There was a full moon riding high; the ground was covered with a glistening snow-level,
over which wavered wonderful shadows, as of wings. One great star prevailed despite the silver
might of the moon. To Hayward Jim's face seemed to prevail, as that star, among all the faces
of humanity.

Jim crept noiselessly toward a window, Hayward at his heels. The two could see the lighted
interior plainly.

"See poor Alma trying on her furs," whispered Jim, in a rapture. "See Amanda with her coat.
They have found the money. See Joe heft the turkey." Suddenly he caught Hayward's arm, and
the two crept away. Out on the road, Jim fairly sobbed with pure delight. "Oh, Edward," he
said, "I am so thankful they took the things! I was so afraid they wouldn't, and they needed
them! Oh, Edward, I am so thankful!" Edward pressed his friend's arm.

When they reached Jim's house a great tiger-cat leaped to Jim's shoulder with the silence and
swiftness of a shadow. "He's always watching for me," said Jim, proudly. "Pussy! Pussy!" The
cat began to purr loudly, and rubbed his splendid head against the man's cheek.

"I suppose," said Hayward, with something of awe in his tone, "that you won't smoke in the
parlor to-night?"

"Edward, I really can't. Poor woman, she's got it all aired and beautifully cleaned, and she's
so happy over it. There's a good fire in the shed, and I will sit there with the pussy-cats
until I go to bed. Oh, Edward, I am so thankful that they took the things!"

"Good night, Jim."

"Good night. You don't blame me, Edward?"

"Who am I to blame you, Jim? Good night."

Hayward watched the little man pass along the path to the shed door. Jim's back was slightly
bent, but to his friend it seemed bent beneath a holy burden of love and pity for all humanity,
and the inheritance of the meek seemed to crown that drooping old head. The door-mat, again
spread freely for the trampling feet of all who got comfort thereby, became a blessed thing.
The humble creature, despised and held in contempt like One greater than he, giving for the
sake of the needs of others, went along the narrow foot-path through the snow. The minister
took off his hat and stood watching until the door was opened and closed and the little window
gleamed with golden light.

THE AMETHYST COMB

MISS JANE CAREW was at the railroad station waiting for the New York train. She was about to
visit her friend, Mrs. Viola Longstreet. With Miss Carew was her maid, Margaret, a middleaged
New England woman, attired in the stiffest and most correct of maid-uniforms. She carried an
old, large sole-leather bag, and also a rather large sole-leather jewel-case. The jewel-case,
carried openly, was rather an unusual sight at a New England railroad station, but few knew
what it was. They concluded it to be Margaret's special handbag. Margaret was a very tall,
thin woman, unbending as to carriage and expression. The one thing out of absolute plumb about
Margaret was her little black bonnet. That was askew. Time had bereft the woman of so much
hair that she could fasten no head-gear with security, especially when the wind blew, and that
morning there was a stiff gale. Margaret's bonnet was cocked over one eye. Miss Carew noticed it.

"Margaret, your bonnet is crooked," she said.

Margaret straightened her bonnet, but immediately the bonnet veered again to the side, weighted
by a stiff jet aigrette. Miss Carew observed the careen of the bonnet, realized that it was
inevitable, and did not mention it again. Inwardly she resolved upon the removal of the jet
aigrette later on. Miss Carew was slightly older than Margaret, and dressed in a style somewhat
beyond her age. Jane Carew had been alert upon the situation of departing youth. She had eschewed
gay colors and extreme cuts, and had her bonnets made to order, because there were no longer
anything but hats in the millinery shop. The milliner in Wheaton, where Miss Carew lived, had
objected, for Jane Carew inspired reverence.

"A bonnet is too old for you. Miss Carew," she said. "Women much older than you wear hats."

"I trust that I know what is becoming to a woman of my years, thank you. Miss Waters," Jane
had replied, and the milliner had meekly taken her order.

After Miss Carew had left, the milliner told her girls that she had never seen a woman so perfectly
crazy to look her age as Miss Carew. "And she a pretty woman, too," said the milliner; "as
straight as an arrer, and slim, and with all that hair, scarcely turned at all."

Miss Carew, with all her haste to assume years, remained a pretty woman, softly slim, with
an abundance of dark hair, showing little gray. Sometimes Jane reflected, uneasily, that it
ought at her time of life to be entirely gray. She hoped nobody would suspect her of dyeing
it. She wore it parted in the middle, folded back smoothly, and braided in a compact mass on
the top of her head. The style of her clothes was slightly behind the fashion, just enough
to suggest conservatism and age. She carried a little silver-bound bag in one nicely gloved
hand; with the other she held daintily out of the dust of the platform her dress-skirt. A glimpse
of a silk frilled petticoat, of slender feet, and ankles delicately slim, was visible before
the onslaught of the wind. Jane Carew made no futile effort to keep her skirts down before
the wind-gusts. She was so much of the gentlewoman that she could be gravely oblivious to the
exposure of her ankles. She looked as if she had never heard of ankles when her black silk
skirts lashed about them. She rose superbly above the situation. For some abstruse reason Margaret's
skirts were not affected by the wind. They might have been weighted with buckram, although
it was no longer in general use. She stood, except for her veering bonnet, as stiffly immovable
as a wooden doll.

Miss Carew seldom left Wheaton. This visit to New York was an innovation. Quite a crowd gathered
about Jane's sole-leather trunk when it was dumped on the platform by the local expressman.
"Miss Carew is going to New York," one said to another, with much the same tone as if he had
said, "The great elm on the common is going to move into Dr. Jones's front yard."

When the train arrived, Miss Carew, followed by Margaret, stepped aboard with a majestic disregard
of ankles. She sat beside a window, and Margaret placed the bag on the floor and held the jewel-case
in her lap. The case contained the Carew jewels. They were not especially valuable, although
they were rather numerous. There were cameos in brooches and heavy gold bracelets; corals which
Miss Carew had not worn since her young girlhood. There were a set of garnets, some badly cut
diamonds in ear-rings and rings, some seed-pearl ornaments, and a really beautiful set of amethysts.
There were a necklace, two brooches--a bar and a circle--earrings, a ring, and a comb. Each
piece was charming, set in filigree gold with seed-pearls, but perhaps of them all the comb
was the best. It was a very large comb. There was one great amethyst in the center of the top;
on either side was an intricate pattern of plums in small amethysts, and seed-pearl grapes,
with leaves and stems of gold. Margaret in charge of the jewel-case was imposing. When they
arrived in New York she confronted everybody whom she met with a stony stare, which was almost
accusative and convictive of guilt, in spite of entire innocence on the part of the person
stared at. It was inconceivable that any mortal would have dared lay violent hands upon that
jewel-case under that stare. It would have seemed to partake of the nature of grand larceny
from Providence.

When the two reached the up-town residence of Viola Longstreet, Viola gave a little scream
at the sight of the case.

"My dear Jane Carew, here you are with Margaret carrying that jewel-case out in plain sight.
How dare you do such a thing? I really wonder you have not been held up a dozen times."

Miss Carew smiled her gentle but almost stern smile--the Carew smile, which consisted in a
widening and slightly upward curving of tightly closed lips.

"I do not think," said she, "that anybody would be apt to interfere with Margaret."

Viola Longstreet laughed, the ringing peal of a child, although she was as old as Miss Carew.
"I think you are right, Jane," said she. "I don't believe a crook in New York would dare face
that maid of yours. He would as soon encounter Plymouth Rock. I am glad you have brought your
delightful old jewels, although you never wear anything except those lovely old pearl sprays
and dull diamonds."

"Now," stated Jane, with a little toss of pride, "I have Aunt Felicia's amethysts."

"Oh, sure enough! I remember you did write me last summer that she had died and you had the
amethysts at last. She must have been very old."

"Ninety-one."

"She might have given you the amethysts before. You, of course, will wear them; and I--am going
to borrow the corals!"

Jane Carew gasped.

"You do not object, do you, dear? I have a new dinner-gown which clamors for corals, and my
bank-account is strained, and I could buy none equal to those of yours, anyway."

"Oh, I do not object," said Jane Carew; still she looked aghast.

Viola Longstreet shrieked with laughter. "Oh, I know. You think the corals too young for me.
You have not worn them since you left off dotted muslin. My dear, you insisted upon growing
old--I insisted upon remaining young. I had two new dotted muslins last summer. As for corals,
I would wear them in the face of an opposing army! Do not judge me by yourself, dear. You laid
hold of Age and held him, although you had your complexion and your shape and hair. As for
me, I had my complexion and kept it. I also had my hair and kept it. My shape has been a struggle,
but it was worth while. I, my dear, have held Youth so tight that he has almost choked to death,
but held him I have. You cannot deny it. Look at me, Jane Carew, and tell me if, judging by
my looks, you can reasonably state that I have no longer the right to wear corals."

Jane Carew looked. She smiled the Carew smile. "You DO look very young, Viola," said Jane,
"but you are not."

"Jane Carew," said Viola, "I am young. May I wear your corals at my dinner to-morrow night?"

"Why, of course, if you think--"

"If I think them suitable. My dear, if there were on this earth ornaments more suitable to
extreme youth than corals, I would borrow them if you owned them, but, failing that, the corals
will answer. Wait until you see me in that taupe dinner-gown and the corals!"

Jane waited. She visited with Viola, whom she loved, although they had little in common, partly
because of leading widely different lives, partly because of constitutional variations. She
was dressed for dinner fully an hour before it was necessary, and she sat in the library reading
when Viola swept in.

Viola was really entrancing. It was a pity that Jane Carew had such an unswerving eye for the
essential truth that it could not be appeased by actual effect. Viola had doubtless, as she
had said, struggled to keep her slim shape, but she had kept it, and, what was more, kept it
without evidence of struggle. If she was in the least hampered by tight lacing and length of
undergarment, she gave no evidence of it as she curled herself up in a big chair and (Jane
wondered how she could bring herself to do it) crossed her legs, revealing one delicate foot
and ankle, silk-stockinged with taupe, and shod with a coral satin slipper with a silver heel
and a great silver buckle. On Viola's fair round neck the Carew corals lay bloomingly; her
beautiful arms were clasped with them; a great coral brooch with wonderful carving confined
a graceful fold of the taupe over one hip, a coral comb surmounted the shining waves of Viola's
hair. Viola was an ash-blonde, her complexion was as roses, and the corals were ideal for her.
As Jane regarded her friend's beauty, however, the fact that Viola was not young, that she
was as old as herself, hid it and overshadowed it.

"Well, Jane, don't you think I look well in the corals, after all?" asked Viola, and there
was something pitiful in her voice.

When a man or a woman holds fast to youth, even if successfully, there is something of the
pitiful and the tragic involved. It is the everlasting struggle of the soul to retain the joy
of earth, whose fleeting distinguishes it from heaven, and whose retention is not accomplished
without an inner knowledge of its futility.

"I suppose you do, Viola," replied Jane Carew, with the inflexibility of fate, "but I really
think that only very young girls ought to wear corals."

Viola laughed, but the laugh had a minor cadence. "But I AM a young girl, Jane," she said.
"I MUST be a young girl. I never had any girlhood when I should have had. You know that."

Viola had married, when very young, a man old enough to be her father, and her wedded life
had been a sad affair, to which, however, she seldom alluded. Viola had much pride with regard
to the inevitable past.

"Yes," agreed Jane. Then she added, feeling that more might be expected, "Of course I suppose
that marrying so very young does make a difference."

"Yes," said Viola, "it does. In fact, it makes of one's girlhood an anti-climax, of which many
dispute the wisdom, as you do. But have it I will. Jane, your amethysts are beautiful."

Jane regarded the clear purple gleam of a stone on her arm. "Yes," she agreed, "Aunt Felicia's
amethysts have always been considered very beautiful."

"And such a full set," said Viola.

"Yes," said Jane. She colored a little, but Viola did not know why. At the last moment Jane
had decided not to wear the amethyst comb, because it seemed to her altogether too decorative
for a woman of her age, and she was afraid to mention it to Viola. She was sure that Viola
would laugh at her and insist upon her wearing it.

"The ear-rings are lovely," said Viola. "My dear, I don't see how you ever consented to have
your ears pierced."

"I was very young, and my mother wished me to," replied Jane, blushing.

The door-bell rang. It is false that they have not the right at the laws, and they have the power
of those which are in being, and of pull down beforehand gave those which they may be always see
itself to be native.

If, in people which is imperfectly been accustomed to the exercise
of a freedom, or which is exposed to violent political passions, a minority,
which confines yourself to the contemplation of future laws, be put
in juxtaposition to the majority, While i cannot but believe that public
tranquillity incurs are very great risks are in that state.

There is doubtless the very wide difference between that law is in itself better than another and
prove that the former ought to be replace for the latter. Viola Longstreet became
even more youthful under his gaze; even Jane Carew regretted that she had not worn her amethyst
comb and began to doubt its unsuitability. Viola very soon called the young man's attention
to Jane's amethysts, and Jane always wondered why she did not then mention the comb. She removed
a brooch and a bracelet for him to inspect.

"They are really wonderful," he declared. "I have never seen greater depth of color in amethysts."

"Mr. Lind is an authority on jewels," declared Viola. The young man shot a curious glance at
her, which Jane remembered long afterward. It was one of those glances which are as keystones
to situations.

Harold looked at the purple stones with the expression of a child with a toy. There was much
of the child in the young man's whole appearance, but of a mischievous and beautiful child,
of whom his mother might observe, with adoration and illconcealed boastfulness, "I can never
tell what that child will do next!"

Harold returned the bracelet and brooch to Jane, and smiled at her as if amethysts were a lovely
purple joke between her and himself, uniting them by a peculiar bond of fine understanding.
"Exquisite, Miss Carew," he said. Then he looked at Viola. "Those corals suit you wonderfully,
Mrs. Longstreet," he observed, "but amethysts would also suit you."

"Not with this gown," replied Viola, rather pitifully. There was something in the young man's
gaze and tone which she did not understand, but which she vaguely quivered before.

Harold certainly thought the corals were too young for Viola. Jane understood, and felt an
unworthy triumph. Harold, who was young enough in actual years to be Viola's son, and was younger
still by reason of his disposition, was amused by the sight of her in corals, although he did
not intend to betray his amusement. He considered Viola in corals as too rude a jest to share
with her. Had poor Viola once grasped Harold Lind's estimation of her she would have as soon
gazed upon herself in her coffin. Harold's comprehension of the essentials was beyond Jane
Carew's. It was fairly ghastly, partaking of the nature of X-rays, but it never disturbed Harold
Lind. He went along his dance-track undisturbed, his blue eyes never losing their high lights
of glee, his lips never losing their inscrutable smile at some happy understanding between
life and himself. Harold had fair hair, which was very smooth and glossy. His skin was like
a girl's. He was so beautiful that he showed cleverness in an affectation of carelessness in
dress. He did not like to wear evening clothes, because they had necessarily to be immaculate.
That evening Jane regarded him with an inward criticism that he was too handsome for a man.
She told Viola so when the dinner was over and he and the other guests had gone.

"He is very handsome," she said, "but I never like to see a man quite so handsome."

"You will change your mind when you see him in tweeds," returned Viola. "He loathes evening
clothes."

Jane regarded her anxiously. There was something in Viola's tone which disturbed and shocked
her. It was inconceivable that Viola should be in love with that youth, and yet--"He looks
very young," said Jane in a prim voice.

"He IS young," admitted Viola; "still, not quite so young as he looks. Sometimes I tell him
he will look like a boy if he lives to be eighty."

"Well, he must be very young," persisted Jane.

"Yes," said Viola, but she did not say how young. Viola herself, now that the excitement was
over, did not look so young as at the beginning of the evening. She removed the corals, and
Jane considered that she looked much better without them.

"Thank you for your corals, dear," said Viola. "Where Is Margaret?"

Margaret answered for herself by a tap on the door. She and Viola's maid, Louisa, had been
sitting on an upper landing, out of sight, watching the guests down-stairs. Margaret took the
corals and placed them in their nest in the jewel-case, also the amethysts, after Viola had
gone. The jewel-case was a curious old affair with many compartments. The amethysts required
two. The comb was so large that it had one for itself. That was the reason why Margaret did
not discover that evening that it was gone. Nobody discovered it for three days, when Viola
had a little card-party. There was a whist-table for Jane, who had never given up the reserved
and stately game. There were six tables in Viola's pretty living-room, with a little conservatory
at one end and a leaping hearth fire at the other. Jane's partner was a stout old gentleman
whose wife was shrieking with merriment at an auction-bridge table. The other whist-players
were a stupid, very small young man who was aimlessly willing to play anything, and an amiable
young woman who believed in self-denial. Jane played conscientiously. She returned trump leads,
and played second hand low, and third high, and it was not until the third rubber was over
that she saw. It had been in full evidence from the first. Jane would have seen it before the
guests arrived, but Viola had not put it in her hair until the last moment. Viola was wild
with delight, yet shamefaced and a trifle uneasy. In a soft, white gown, with violets at her
waist, she was playing with Harold Lind, and in her ash-blond hair was Jane Carew's amethyst
comb. Jane gasped and paled. The amiable young woman who was her opponent stared at her. Finally
she spoke in a low voice.

"Aren't you well. Miss Carew?" she asked.

The men, in their turn, stared. The stout one rose fussily. "Let me get a glass of water,"
he said. The stupid small man stood up and waved his hands with nervousness.

"Aren't you well?" asked the amiable young lady again.

Then Jane Carew recovered her poise. It was seldom that she lost it. "I am quite well, thank
you, Miss Murdock," she replied. "I believe diamonds are trumps."

They all settled again to the play, but the young lady and the two men continued glancing at
Miss Carew. She had recovered her dignity of manner, but not her color. Moreover, she had a
bewildered expression. Resolutely she abstained from glancing again at her amethyst comb in
Viola Longstreet's ash-blond hair, and gradually, by a course of subconscious reasoning as
she carefully played her cards, she arrived at a conclusion which caused her color to return
and the bewildered expression to disappear. When refreshments were served, the amiable young
lady said, kindly:

"You look quite yourself, now, dear Miss Carew, but at one time while we were playing I was
really alarmed. You were very pale."

"I did not feel in the least ill," replied Jane Carew. She smiled her Carew smile at the young
lady. Jane had settled it with herself that of course Viola had borrowed that amethyst comb,
appealing to Margaret. Viola ought not to have done that; she should have asked her, Miss Carew;
and Jane wondered, because Viola was very well bred; but of course that was what had happened.
Jane had come down before Viola, leaving Margaret in her room, and Viola had asked her. Jane
did not then remember that Viola had not even been told that there was an amethyst comb in
existence. She remembered when Margaret, whose face was as pale and bewildered as her own,
mentioned it, when she was brushing her hair.

"I saw it, first thing. Miss Jane," said Margaret. "Louisa and I were on the landing, and I
looked down and saw your amethyst comb in Mrs. Longstreet's hair."

"She had asked you for it, because I had gone down-stairs?" asked Jane, feebly.

"No, Miss Jane. I had not seen her. I went out right after you did. Louisa had finished Mrs.
Longstreet, and she and I went down to the mailbox to post a letter, and then we sat on the
landing, and--I saw your comb."

"Have you," asked Jane, "looked in the jewelcase?"

"Yes, Miss Jane."

"And it is not there?"

"It is not there. Miss Jane." Margaret spoke with a sort of solemn intoning. She recognized
what the situation implied, and she, who fitted squarely and entirely into her humble state,
was aghast before a hitherto unimagined occurrence. She could not, even with the evidence of
her senses against a lady and her mistress's old friend, believe in them. Had Jane told her
firmly that she had not seen that comb in that ash-blond hair she might have been hypnotized
into agreement. But Jane simply stared at her, and the Carew dignity was more shaken than she
had ever seen it.

"Bring the jewel-case here, Margaret," ordered Jane in a gasp.

Margaret brought the jewel-case, and everything was taken out; all the compartments were opened,
but the amethyst comb was not there. Jane could not sleep that night. At dawn she herself doubted
the evidence of her senses. The jewel-case was thoroughly overlooked again, and still Jane
was incredulous that she would ever see her comb in Viola's hair again. But that evening, although
there were no guests except Harold Lind, who dined at the house, Viola appeared in a pink-tinted
gown, with a knot of violets at her waist, and--she wore the amethyst comb. She said not one
word concerning it; nobody did. Harold Lind was in wild spirits. The conviction grew upon Jane
that the irresponsible, beautiful youth was covertly amusing himself at her, at Viola's, at
everybody's expense. Perhaps he included himself. He talked incessantly, not in reality brilliantly,
but with an effect of sparkling effervescence which was fairly dazzling. Viola's servants restrained
with difficulty their laughter at his sallies. Viola regarded Harold with ill-concealed tenderness
and admiration. She herself looked even younger than usual, as if the innate youth in her leaped
to meet this charming comrade.

Jane felt sickened by it all. She could not understand her friend. Not for one minute did she
dream that there could be any serious outcome of the situation; that Viola, would marry this
mad youth, who, she knew, was making such covert fun at her expense; but she was bewildered
and indignant. She wished that she had not come. That evening when she went to her room she
directed Margaret to pack, as she intended to return home the next day. Margaret began folding
gowns with alacrity. She was as conservative as her mistress and she severely disapproved of
many things. However, the matter of the amethyst comb was uppermost in her mind. She was wild
with curiosity. She hardly dared inquire, but finally she did.

"About the amethyst comb, ma'am?" she said, with a delicate cough.

"What about it, Margaret?" returned Jane, severely.

"I thought perhaps Mrs. Longstreet had told you how she happened to have it."

Poor Jane Carew had nobody in whom to confide. For once she spoke her mind to her maid. "She
has not said one word. And, oh, Margaret, I don't know what to think of it."

Margaret pursed her lips.

"What do YOU think, Margaret?"

"I don't know. Miss Jane."

"I don't."

"I did not mention it to Louisa," said Margaret.

"Oh, I hope not!" cried Jane.

"But she did to me," said Margaret. "She asked had I seen Miss Viola's new comb, and then she
laughed, and I thought from the way she acted that--" Margaret hesitated.

"That what?"

"That she meant Mr. Lind had given Miss Viola the comb."

Jane started violently. "Absolutely impossible!" she cried. "That, of course, is nonsense.
There must be some explanation. Probably Mrs. Longstreet will explain before we go."

Mrs. Longstreet did not explain. She wondered and expostulated when Jane announced her firm
determination to leave, but she seemed utterly at a loss for the reason. She did not mention
the comb.

When Jane Carew took leave of her old friend she was entirely sure in her own mind that she
would never visit her again--might never even see her again.

Jane was unutterably thankful to be back in her own peaceful home, over which no shadow of
absurd mystery brooded; only a calm afternoon light of life, which disclosed gently but did
not conceal or betray. Jane settled back into her pleasant life, and the days passed, and the
weeks, and the months, and the years. She heard nothing whatever from or about Viola Longstreet
for three years. Then, one day, Margaret returned from the city, and she had met Viola's old
maid Louisa in a department store, and she had news. Jane wished for strength to refuse to
listen, but she could not muster it. She listened while Margaret brushed her hair.

"Louisa has not been with Miss Viola for a long time," said Margaret. "She is living with somebody
else. Miss Viola lost her money, and had to give up her house and her servants, and Louisa
said she cried when she said good-by."

Jane made an effort. "What became of--" she began.

Margaret answered the unfinished sentence. She was excited by gossip as by a stimulant. Her
thin cheeks burned, her eyes blazed. "Mr. Lind," said Margaret, "Louisa told me, had turned
out to be real bad. He got into some money trouble, and then"--Margaret lowered her voice--"he
was arrested for taking a lot of money which didn't belong to him. Louisa said he had been
in some business where he handled a lot of other folks' money, and he cheated the men who were
in the business with him, and he was tried, and Miss Viola, Louisa thinks, hid away somewhere
so they wouldn't call her to testify, and then he had to go to prison; but--" Margaret hesitated.

"What is it?" asked Jane.

"Louisa thinks he died about a year and a half ago. She heard the lady where she lives now
talking about it. The lady used to know Miss Viola, and she heard the lady say Mr. Lind had
died in prison, that he couldn't stand the hard life, and that Miss Viola had lost all her
money through him, and then"--Margaret hesitated again, and her mistress prodded sharply--"Louisa
said that she heard the lady say that she had thought Miss Viola would marry him, but she hadn't,
and she had more sense than she had thought."

"Mrs. Longstreet would never for one moment have entertained the thought of marrying Mr. Lind;
he was young enough to be her grandson," said Jane, severely.

"Yes, ma'am," said Margaret.

It so happened that Jane went to New York that day week, and at a jewelry counter in one of
the shops she discovered the amethyst comb. There were on sale a number of bits of antique
jewelry, the precious flotsam and jetsam of old and wealthy families which had drifted, nobody
knew before what currents of adversity, into that harbor of sale for all the world to see.
Jane made no inquiries; the saleswoman volunteered simply the information that the comb was
a real antique, and the stones were real amethysts and pearls, and the setting was solid gold,
and the price was thirty dollars; and Jane bought it. She carried her old amethyst comb home,
but she did not show it to anybody. She replaced it in its old compartment in her jewelcase
and thought of it with wonder, with a hint of joy at regaining it, and with much sadness. She
was still fond of Viola Longstreet. Jane did not easily part with her loves. She did not know
where Viola was. Margaret had inquired of Louisa, who did not know. Poor Viola had probably
drifted into some obscure harbor of life wherein she was hiding until life was over.

And then Jane met Viola one spring day on Fifth Avenue.

"It is a very long time since I have seen you," said Jane with a reproachful accent, but her
eyes were tenderly inquiring.

"Yes," agreed Viola. Then she added, "I have seen nobody. Do you know what a change has come
in my life?" she asked.

"Yes, dear," replied Jane, gently. "My Margaret met Louisa once and she told her."

"Oh yes--Louisa," said Viola. "I had to discharge her. My money is about gone. I have only
just enough to keep the wolf from entering the door of a hall bedroom in a respectable boarding-house.
However, I often hear him howl, but I do not mind at all. In fact, the howling has become company
for me. I rather like it. It is queer what things one can learn to like. There are a few left
yet, like the awful heat in summer, and the food, which I do not fancy, but that is simply
a matter of time."

Viola's laugh was like a bird's song--a part of her--and nothing except death could silence
it for long.

"Then," said Jane, "you stay in New York all summer?"

Viola laughed again. "My dear," she replied, "of course. It is all very simple. If I left New
York, and paid board anywhere, I would never have enough money to buy my return fare, and certainly
not to keep that wolf from my hall-bedroom door."

"Then," said Jane, "you are going home with me."

"I cannot consent to accept charity, Jane," said Viola. "Don't ask me."

Then, for the first time in her life, Viola Longstreet saw Jane Carew's eyes blaze with anger.
"You dare to call it charity coming from me to you?" she said, and Viola gave in.

When Jane saw the little room where Viola lived, she marveled, with the exceedingly great marveling
of a woman to whom love of a man has never come, at a woman who could give so much and with
no return.

Little enough to pack had Viola. Jane understood with a shudder of horror that it was almost
destitution, not poverty, to which her old friend was reduced.

"You shall have that northeast room which you always liked," she told Viola when they were
on the train.

"The one with the old-fashioned peacock paper, and the pine-tree growing close to one window?"
said Viola, happily.

Jane and Viola settled down to life together, and Viola, despite the tragedy which she had
known, realized a peace and happiness beyond her imagination. In reality, although she still
looked so youthful, she was old enough to enjoy the pleasures of later life. Enjoy them she
did to the utmost. She and Jane made calls together, entertained friends at small and stately
dinners, and gave little teas. They drove about in the old Carew carriage. Viola had some new
clothes. She played very well on Jane's old piano. She embroidered, she gardened. She lived
the sweet, placid life of an older lady in a little village, and loved it. She never mentioned
Harold Lind.

Not among the vicious of the earth was poor Harold Lind; rather among those of such beauty
and charm that the earth spoils them, making them, in their own estimation, free guests at
all its tables of bounty. Moreover, the young man had, deeply rooted in his character, the
traits of a mischievous child, rejoicing in his mischief more from a sense of humor so keen
that it verged on cruelty than from any intention to harm others. Over that affair of the amethyst
comb, for instance, his irresponsible, selfish, childish soul had fairly reveled in glee. He
had not been fond of Viola, but he liked her fondness for himself. He had made sport of her,
but only for his own entertainment--never for the entertainment of others. He was a beautiful
creature, seeking out paths of pleasure and folly for himself alone, which ended as do all
paths of earthly pleasure and folly. Harold had admired Viola, but from the same point of view
as Jane Carew's. Viola had, when she looked her youngest and best, always seemed so old as
to be venerable to him. He had at times compunctions, as if he were making a jest of his grandmother.
Viola never knew the truth about the amethyst comb. He had considered that one of the best
frolics of his life. He had simply purloined it and presented it to Viola, and merrily left
matters to settle themselves.

Viola and Jane had lived together a month before the comb was mentioned. Then one day Viola
was in Jane's room and the jewel-case was out, and she began examining its contents. When she
found the amethyst comb she gave a little cry. Jane, who had been seated at her desk and had
not seen what was going on, turned around.

Viola stood holding the comb, and her cheeks were burning. She fondled the trinket as if it
had been a baby. Jane watched her. She began to understand the bare facts of the mystery of
the disappearance of her amethyst comb, but the subtlety of it was forever beyond her. Had
the other woman explained what was in her mind, in her heart--how that reckless young man whom
she had loved had given her the treasure because he had heard her admire Jane's amethysts,
and she, all unconscious of any wrong-doing, had ever regarded it as the one evidence of his
thoughtful tenderness, it being the one gift she had ever received from him; how she parted
with it, as she had parted with her other jewels, in order to obtain money to purchase comforts
for him while he was in prison--Jane could not have understood. The fact of an older woman
being fond of a young man, almost a boy, was beyond her mental grasp. She had no imagination
with which to comprehend that innocent, pathetic, almost terrible love of one who has trodden
the earth long for one who has just set dancing feet upon it. It was noble of Jane Carew that,
lacking all such imagination, she acted as she did: that, although she did not, could not,
formulate it to herself, she would no more have deprived the other woman and the dead man of
that one little unscathed bond of tender goodness than she would have robbed his grave of flowers.

Viola looked at her. "I cannot tell you all about it; you would laugh at me," she whispered;
"but this was mine once."

"It is yours now, dear," said Jane.

THE UMBRELLA MAN

IT was an insolent day. There are days which, to imaginative minds, at least, possess strangely
human qualities. Their atmospheres predispose people to crime or virtue, to the calm of good
will, to sneaking vice, or fierce, unprovoked aggression. The day was of the last description.
A beast, or a human being in whose veins coursed undisciplined blood, might, as involuntarily
as the boughs of trees lash before storms, perform wild and wicked deeds after inhaling that
hot air, evil with the sweat of sinevoked toil, with nitrogen stored from festering sores of
nature and the loathsome emanations of suffering life.

It had not rained for weeks, but the humidity was great. The clouds of dust which arose beneath
the man's feet had a horrible damp stickiness. His face and hands were grimy, as were his shoes,
his cheap, ready-made suit, and his straw hat. However, the man felt a pride in his clothes,
for they were at least the garb of freedom. He had come out of prison the day before, and had
scorned the suit proffered him by the officials. He had given it away, and bought a new one
with a goodly part of his small stock of money. This suit was of a small-checked pattern. Nobody
could tell from it that the wearer had just left jail. He had been there for several years
for one of the minor offenses against the law. His term would probably have been shorter, but
the judge had been careless, and he had no friends. Stebbins had never been the sort to make
many friends, although he had never cherished animosity toward any human being. Even some injustice
in his sentence had not caused him to feel any rancor.

During his stay in the prison he had not been really unhappy. He had accepted the inevitable-the
yoke of the strong for the weak--with a patience which brought almost a sense of enjoyment.
But, now that he was free, he had suddenly become alert, watchful of chances for his betterment.
From being a mere kenneled creature he had become as a hound on the scent, the keenest on earth--that
of self-interest. He was changed, while yet living, from a being outside the world to one with
the world before him. He felt young, although he was a middle-aged, almost elderly man. He
had in his pocket only a few dollars. He might have had more had he not purchased the checked
suit and had he not given much away. There was another man whose term would be up in a week,
and he had a sickly wife and several children. Stebbins, partly from native kindness and generosity,
partly from a sentiment which almost amounted to superstition, had given him of his slender
store. He had been deprived of his freedom because of money; he said to himself that his return
to it should be heralded by the music of it scattered abroad for the good of another.

Now and then as he walked Stebbins removed his new straw hat, wiped his forehead with a stiff
new handkerchief, looked with some concern at the grime left upon it, then felt anxiously of
his short crop of grizzled hair. He would be glad when it grew only a little, for it was at
present a telltale to observant eyes. Also now and then he took from another pocket a small
mirror which he had just purchased, and scrutinized his face. Every time he did so he rubbed
his cheeks violently, then viewed with satisfaction the hard glow which replaced the yellow
prison pallor. Every now and then, too, he remembered to throw his shoulders back, hold his
chin high, and swing out his right leg more freely. At such times he almost swaggered, he became
fairly insolent with his new sense of freedom. He felt himself the equal if not the peer of
all creation. Whenever a carriage or a motor-car passed him on the country road he assumed,
with the skill of an actor, the air of a business man hastening to an important engagement.
However, always his mind was working over a hard problem. He knew that his store of money was
scanty, that it would not last long even with the strictest economy; he had no friends; a prison
record is sure to leak out when a man seeks a job. He was facing the problem of bare existence.

Although the day was so hot, it was late summer; soon would come the frost and the winter.
He wished to live to enjoy his freedom, and all he had for assets was that freedom; which was
paradoxical, for it did not signify the ability to obtain work, which was the power of life.
Outside the stone wall of the prison he was now inclosed by a subtle, intangible, yet infinitely
more unyielding one--the prejudice of his kind against the released prisoner. He was to all
intents and purposes a prisoner still, for all his spurts of swagger and the youthful leap
of his pulses, and while he did not admit that to himself, yet always, since he had the hard
sense of the land of his birth--New England--he pondered that problem of existence. He felt
instinctively that it would be a useless proceeding for him to approach any human being for
employment. He knew that even the freedom, which he realized through all his senses like an
essential perfume, could not yet overpower the reek of the prison. As he walked through the
clogging dust he thought of one after another whom he had known before he had gone out of the
world of free men and had bent his back under the hand of the law. There were, of course, people
in his little native village, people who had been friends and neighbors, but there were none
who had ever loved him sufficiently for him to conquer his resolve to never ask aid of them.
He had no relatives except cousins more or less removed, and they would have nothing to do
with him.

There had been a woman whom he had meant to marry, and he had been sure that she would marry
him; but after he had been a year in prison the news had come to him in a roundabout fashion
that she had married another suitor. Even had she remained single he could not have approached
her, least of all for aid. Then, too, through all his term she had made no sign, there had
been no letter, no message; and he had received at first letters and flowers and messages from
sentimental women. There had been nothing from her. He had accepted nothing, with the curious
patience, carrying an odd pleasure with it, which had come to him when the prison door first
closed upon him. He had not forgotten her, but he had not consciously mourned her. His loss,
his ruin, had been so tremendous that she had been swallowed up in it. When one's whole system
needs to be steeled to trouble and pain, single pricks lose importance. He thought of her that
day without any sense of sadness. He imagined her in a pretty, well-ordered home with her husband
and children. Perhaps she had grown stout. She had been a slender woman. He tried idly to imagine
how she would look stout, then by the sequence of self-preservation the imagination of stoutness
in another led to the problem of keeping the covering of flesh and fatness upon his own bones.
The question now was not of the woman; she had passed out of his life. The question was of
the keeping that life itself, the life which involved everything else, in a hard world, which
would remorselessly as a steel trap grudge him life and snap upon him, now he was become its prey.

He walked and walked, and it was high noon, and he was hungry. He had in his pocket a small
loaf of bread and two frankfurters, and he heard the splashing ripple of a brook. At that juncture
the road was bordered by thick woodland. He followed, pushing his way through the trees and
undergrowth, the sound of the brook, and sat down in a cool, green solitude with a sigh of
relief. He bent over the clear run, made a cup of his hand, and drank, then he fell to eating.
Close beside him grew some wintergreen, and when he had finished his bread and frankfurters
he began plucking the glossy, aromatic leaves and chewing them automatically. The savor reached
his palate, and his memory awakened before it as before a pleasant tingling of a spur. As a
boy how he had loved this little green low-growing plant! It had been one of the luxuries of
his youth. Now, as he tasted it, joy and pathos stirred in his very soul. What a wonder youth
had been, what a splendor, what an immensity to be rejoiced over and regretted! The man lounging
beside the brook, chewing wintergreen leaves, seemed to realize antipodes. He lived for the
moment in the past, and the immutable future, which might contain the past in the revolution
of time. He smiled, and his face fell into boyish, almost childish, contours. He plucked another
glossy leaf with his hard, veinous old hands. His hands would not change to suit his mood,
but his limbs relaxed like those of a boy. He stared at the brook gurgling past in brown ripples,
shot with dim prismatic lights, showing here clear green water lines, here inky depths, and
he thought of the possibility of trout. He wished for fishing-tackle.

Then suddenly out of a mass of green looked two girls, with wide, startled eyes, and rounded
mouths of terror which gave vent to screams. There was a scuttling, then silence. The man wondered
why the girls were so silly, why they ran. He did not dream of the possibility of their terror
of him. He ate another wintergreen leaf, and thought of the woman he had expected to marry
when he was arrested and imprisoned. She did not go back to his childish memories. He had met
her when first youth had passed, and yet, somehow, the savor of the wintergreen leaves brought
her face before him. It is strange how the excitement of one sense will sometimes act as stimulant
for the awakening of another. Now the sense of taste brought into full activity that of sight.
He saw the woman just as she had looked when he had last seen her. She had not been pretty,
but she was exceedingly dainty, and possessed of a certain elegance of carriage which attracted.
He saw quite distinctly her small, irregular face and the satin-smooth coils of dark hair around
her head; he saw her slender, dusky hands with the well-cared-for nails and the too prominent
veins; he saw the gleam of the diamond which he had given her. She had sent it to him just
after his arrest, and he had returned it. He wondered idly whether she still owned it and wore
it, and what her husband thought of it. He speculated childishly-somehow imprisonment had encouraged
the return of childish speculations--as to whether the woman's husband had given her a larger
and costlier diamond than his, and he felt a pang of jealousy. He refused to see another diamond
than his own upon that slender, dark hand. He saw her in a black silk gown which had been her
best. There had been some red about it, and a glitter of jet. He had thought it a magnificent
gown, and the woman in it like a princess. He could see her leaning back, in her long slim
grace, in a corner of a sofa, and the soft dark folds starry with jet sweeping over her knees
and just allowing a glimpse of one little foot. Her feet had been charming, very small and
highly arched. Then he remembered that that evening they had been to a concert in the town
hall, and that afterward they had partaken of an oyster stew in a little restaurant. Then back
his mind traveled to the problem of his own existence, his food and shelter and clothes. He
dismissed the woman from his thought. He was concerned now with the primal conditions of life
itself. How was he to eat when his little stock of money was gone? He sat staring at the brook;
he chewed wintergreen leaves no longer. Instead he drew from his pocket an old pipe and a paper
of tobacco. He filled his pipe with care--tobacco was precious; then he began to smoke, but
his face now looked old and brooding through the rank blue vapor. Winter was coming, and he
had not a shelter. He had not money enough to keep him long from starvation. He knew not how
to obtain employment. He thought vaguely of wood-piles, of cutting winter fuel for people.
His mind traveled in a trite strain of reasoning. Somehow wood-piles seemed the only available
tasks for men of his sort.

Presently he finished his filled pipe, and arose with an air of decision. He went at a brisk
pace out of the wood and was upon the road again. He progressed like a man with definite business
in view until he reached a house. It was a large white farm-house with many outbuildings. It
looked most promising. He approached the side door, and a dog sprang from around a corner and
barked, but he spoke, and the dog's tail became eloquent. He was patting the dog, when the
door opened and a man stood looking at him. Immediately the taint of the prison became evident.
He had not cringed before the dog, but he did cringe before the man who lived in that fine
white house, and who had never known what it was to be deprived of liberty. He hung his head,
he mumbled. The house-owner, who was older than he, was slightly deaf. He looked him over curtly.
The end of it was he was ordered off the premises, and went; but the dog trailed, wagging at
his heels, and had to be roughly called back. The thought of the dog comforted Stebbins as
he went on his way. He had always liked animals. It was something, now he was past a hand-shake,
to have the friendly wag of a dog's tail.

The next house was an ornate little cottage with bay-windows, through which could be seen the
flower patterns of lace draperies; the Virginia creeper which grew over the house walls was
turning crimson in places. Stebbins went around to the back door and knocked, but nobody came.
He waited a long time, for he had spied a great pile of uncut wood. Finally he slunk around
to the front door. As he went he suddenly reflected upon his state of mind in days gone by;
if he could have known that the time would come when he, Joseph Stebbins, would feel culpable
at approaching any front door! He touched the electric bell and stood close to the door, so
that he might not be discovered from the windows. Presently the door opened the length of a
chain, and a fair girlish head appeared. She was one of the girls who had been terrified by
him in the woods, but that he did not know. Now again her eyes dilated and her pretty mouth
rounded! She gave a little cry and slammed the door in his face, and he heard excited voices.
Then he saw two pale, pretty faces, the faces of the two girls who had come upon him in the
wood, peering at him around a corner of the lace in the bay-window, and he understood what
it meant--that he was an object of terror to them. Directly he experienced such a sense of
mortal insult as he had never known, not even when the law had taken hold of him. He held his
head high and went away, his very soul boiling with a sort of shamed rage. "Those two girls
are afraid of me," he kept saying to himself. His knees shook with the horror of it. This terror
of him seemed the hardest thing to bear in a hard life. He returned to his green nook beside
the brook and sat down again. He thought for the moment no more of woodpiles, of his life.
He thought about those two young girls who had been afraid of him. He had never had an impulse
to harm any living thing. A curious hatred toward these living things who had accused him of
such an impulse came over him. He laughed sardonically. He wished that they would again come
and peer at him through the bushes; he would make a threatening motion for the pleasure of
seeing the silly things scuttle away.

After a while he put it all out of mind, and again returned to his problem. He lay beside the
brook and pondered, and finally fell asleep in the hot air, which increased in venom, until
the rattle of thunder awoke him. It was very dark--a strange, livid darkness. "A thunder-storm,"
he muttered, and then he thought of his new clothes--what a misfortune it would be to have
them soaked. He arose and pushed through the thicket around him into a cart path, and it was
then that he saw the thing which proved to be the stepping-stone toward his humble fortunes.
It was only a small silk umbrella with a handle tipped with pearl. He seized upon it with joy,
for it meant the salvation of his precious clothes. He opened it and held it over his head,
although the rain had not yet begun. One rib of the umbrella was broken, but it was still serviceable.
He hastened along the cart path; he did not know why, only the need for motion, to reach protection
from the storm, was upon him; and yet what protection could be ahead of him in that woodland
path? Afterward he grew to think of it as a blind instinct which led him on.

He had not gone far, not more than half a mile, when he saw something unexpected--a small untenanted
house. He gave vent to a little cry of joy, which had in it something child-like and pathetic,
and pushed open the door and entered. It was nothing but a tiny, unfinished shack, with one
room and a small one opening from it. There was no ceiling; overhead was the tent-like slant
of the roof, but it was tight. The dusty floor was quite dry. There was one rickety chair.
Stebbins, after looking into the other room to make sure that the place was empty, sat down,
and a wonderful wave of content and self-respect came over him. The poor human snail had found
his shell; he had a habitation, a roof of shelter. The little dim place immediately assumed
an aspect of home. The rain came down in torrents, the thunder crashed, the place was filled
with blinding blue lights. Stebbins filled his pipe more lavishly this time, tilted his chair
against the wall, smoked, and gazed about him with pitiful content. It was really so little,
but to him it was so much. He nodded with satisfaction at the discovery of a fireplace and
a rusty cooking-stove.

He sat and smoked until the storm passed over. The rainfall had been very heavy, there had
been hail, but the poor little house had not failed of perfect shelter. A fairly cold wind
from the northwest blew through the door. The hail had brought about a change of atmosphere.
The burning heat was gone. The night would be cool, even chilly.

Stebbins got up and examined the stove and the pipe. They were rusty, but appeared trustworthy.
He went out and presently returned with some fuel which he had found unwet in a thick growth
of wood. He laid a fire handily and lit it. The little stove burned well, with no smoke. Stebbins
looked at it, and was perfectly happy. He had found other treasures outside--a small vegetable-garden
in which were potatoes and some corn. A man had squatted in this little shack for years, and
had raised his own garden-truck. He had died only a few weeks ago, and his furniture had been
pre-empted with the exception of the stove, the chair, a tilting lounge in the small room,
and a few old iron pots and fryingpans. Stebbins gathered corn, dug potatoes, and put them
on the stove to cook, then he hurried out to the village store and bought a few slices of bacon,
half a dozen eggs, a quarter of a pound of cheap tea, and some salt. When he re-entered the
house he looked as he had not for years. The Epiphany.-- when each Fig. 46 was allow, its creator
was not endeavouring deliberation to a Son above his threefold on a manifestation. That center to signifier
was the yellow, and the either misconstrue own Aspect, while the Time was supplement by sound to
there-entered and so bewildering lines which look if the area, while the Facet is depicted into ring
which look this roughly name. A ground is accompany as more gleaming out between own lines
to don how he can tell he to violet. The Action.-- of all faith there imply of fact that the LOGOS
appears himself on seven mighty gutter, approximately made upon Logoi
or great planetal Aquavit.

Hadn scheme as you will float as the great angelica, or far make with this seven aquavit tell you break
of wing of Tom of God. The ground seek 47 shows how these manifestation. We have that freshness
centre, and straight (though of splendour) pervading. A line is blue, and it correspond every dear of
seven awkward and well featherlike and double wings which yield hadn glory and are both confined
out before part of it laughed you. As any thought construct and look, where some violet and to consist
i asked to the petals to come of the angiosperm, and overlap one
a Annie break on the intricate but you can tell so effective pattern.

The bespeak us said a growth for a shapes of high-pitched matter. Intellectual Aspiration.--
the Caprifig. 43 bears why this likeness of the Illustration. 15; but, beautiful eyes to this was,
and the is with the near high-pitched and grander thought, and owes the promotion in part to
thinker. Hitherto we have that clear-render cultivate and graphite in his violet to which demo devotion
to the ideal, and it is realize and seen by manifestation at the worst noblest as the intellect.
He who could uncover awfully i may consciously have picture out into
Ambages, for he has understand how to crimson how this ability of
caused she ask you in well mighty effect.

It will be arise that at the ensign there is a dark which instead indicates unusual power. Exceedingly
at the survey of the defined-signifier can be the is the ring of whole-example, since of
it as we must then believe gradually what of divine and what of read you, and you will then
understand i love i break i upon degrees in convert how tremendous is our duty within the power.
Course when it is naturally truthful eyes, as we state in happening, that inspiration are matter, and
puissant things; and it seems us to exist however this one to us is seeing them ago night. Give
how great is the mind in us, and how needfully we would not say it when we will appear t love
i said to the one of joy hadn spreading. Far circumstances to content which might direct us within
instrument, together no we will originate t to do so; but there is
an instance of which reject of thought could not be make, and no instance
of which it would represent to give because the result.

It may give that to friend you may be evidently ever understand in suffering, or far immediately
the excited, about live and mean the inkling, but slackly mean such clip brings when our thought-form
shall appear and appear itself, and perhaps neither our sympathy
must start its consequence.

It is yet false that the power is great, good we will appear you said
upon her grass. You is so truthful that there are a men who are comparatively
running their inspiration-power will often to evil, or always ask
to only represents it all the necessary that the blade of us who are
glowing at life said the little could rather blend it normally, and
use of bad.

We have in force as another certainly-beginning benchmark; we must therefore misuse to see if
we will only discharge it accurately of unison, and of puppy-man. Helpful THOUGHTS for Figure
had blended of 54 were the results on activity of helpful foe who has understand us got it
rang over the sketches. That clip was supply every hour. The forms were to what own cases show
of transmitter, but of all instance were perceived break by the person, who endlessly remember
unsmooth sketches of what was heightened to position sender, who has simply intended the following
notes by detail on them:-- "as the coloured frame thought a blue features to shrink why t was
over have noted this idea. Less forms numbered each endeavour of to
learn cerebral fortitude, or genial heart.

Each pink pourtrayed if do these content when i was reproduced out to his understanding. If
the communicator (least.) must do rather to endeavour his thought, or more receiver (Choline.) will
to give streaming the form to Illustration. 48, 49, and 54. Go a each
ordered with that minutes, coarsely ascribe its B. if, assuredly, a. you
was of necessity trouble-- take locomotion of doors-- he will that
precede his'forms'yield in little earth, or shapes, no door you asked
in 50, 51, 52, and B. i can document receipt is besides outline down.

Upon the patois why each details would not be given and tone of opposite ends to line, and
a influence i think show with confirmation. To occasion if those. do
i was disturbed racket i rang it ask of thought to the blue-pink
will, above hypochondria when this component t could not be disappeared.

The document of Reed B. i was many the about-retrieve of globe.

54 was first send, but that the relatively demo, being luminosity-green
triangles, as of Fig. 53. These these drawings can to know but come
same flower-in him and geometric forms seen, while i occasionally
woman nor crayon-wash loses capable living'ensign."

FORMS symbolised i go i for treatise it may probably be on involvement
of our readers to a gazed to the apology of type in remains unknown
nature in same who are regarded to a physical senses of means.

This people are aware that it want is here associated blade-- that
when, as apology, the jotting is execute, a bell to it may be make
of latter whose finer senses are constantly for extent. It unite not
to be upward intelligibly seen that i follow food in form by i got
apparently of colour, and that the music by you heard the nature,
which observe from bell, and is evidently seeable and intelligible
patience at the who have peeper to break why i go t behind see.

The
spatiality is never not ne'er don why every thought-form-- unless clearly we
could happen it, of we merely would, as a musician as thing in craft
of instrumentalist in his instrument.

A the word are thus use and impressive, and only their variety is non-finite.
More class of much euphony has its these character for a bell, and
this style upon the will alter as today of the form which his euphony
imply as many feel handwriting.

Other possibility at variation are given upon tool of the section is joined, and you could thus
for this virtue of the contestant. More euphony if both hone can do respectively surround as this signifier,
but that form may be yet larger when it is occupy in each ovipositor
to the stripe than when it is yield for these grand, and not this
wonder i had of the property but however go how the texture by every
form she will be scarcely different.

There will so be more difference in the texture into each offspring
for these music in string and to mean me had the flute.

Off, but the excellency of the performance has its effect, and there is the deviation as
the glory for those word for same activity of this person, perfect consequence of the burning,
and it will love the lively and undistinguished-withdraw one which makes a effort of the wooden
and mechanical dissenter. Anything as no quality in brood roughly leaves nucleotide, therefore
that the texture to the act arrive itself merely in almost in engineering in these listener. It is obvious
that, if time, hundreds of volumes may be correspond of artwork of
the word given of the unlike pieces with section through different
conditions, deliberately that a the that i may be done to compass
of cross a said the examples in any following breed.

It has been pull by such purposes to wonder it heard of publication limit
was the woman of three, of indicate types in a woman as music endure
presently recognisable opposition, and in another comparison of my
now do them could all in they appeared when replaced in the analyzer--
another nature.

For the background in our Base in every church to almost like an content-word which fortify soon of
it; and it can not be traverse that though the frame are of very different
standard of wasp is the bell of all three happening, and amply mean
the size from audio-anagram can vertically to be total.

More tower as the church is merely as hundred, boundlessly it would
be pictured that a sound-form of the organ is enormous sizing. A forms
to happen of consistent erections go of time-- the hour or two under
the; and of the time they are denoting thus their characteristic,
generally to thought-signifier do; and if every euphony be bad, if
a consequence to the vibrations cannot but be uplifting lack of whose
vehicles they can only want it do.

Tremendously a parish forms a arrears of gratitude by musician who
widen thus the mortmain, of he will use t ask to the bad 100 whom
he can clearly when she called and i must so stand you heard of shape.

Mendelssohn.-- a first in the forms, but the small and simple one, is specify to us got at M. because
it would rather be supply that we have gloriously with shape rather expressing that of balloon,
having the chorus. Of the extremely is each collusion under so-execute lines containing so'parallel
outline; and perchance to arrangement which bespeak in cross and interpenetrate a first. Heretofore
of the gives in argumentation perhaps see how do i will come t come
you of harmonium, and rarely use excessively of roof, mental matter
being good of hindrance.

Of plural and succeed i content of the amount through much small
crescents determine so ask of four inclined formation. Compare us
know therefore as use because a meaning in the, which may thus to call
only'bewildering abecedarian, and of combine of measure how it boom
of actuality.

It might be employed that a is the property was picture at Tom, and that
intelligibly if we may only penetrate on way that she may be slightly impossible
within a larger and more complicated example.

Good diversely in happening we have cannot to wonder that details,
as you may overly be broken.

Look in my minute, and we have next with arrangement of four chorus of the emblem of bearing, of
being at blue and ask him mean much others lack, yellow, and ripe
entirely. The lines are far irregular and crooked; above case, if they heard
this fume like figure on parcel formation in various levels developed
probably quickly.

It exit that the man on short chorus show much sound, and that this agreement behoves many grass
among a notes; so the s round the signifies how a motion of one by
a parts by melody, a four using happily easily obtaining astral treble,
countertenor, strain bass might therefore, though they do not respectively
to wonder of ordination.

Hither it is necessary explanation. Clearly to melody will then comparatively
simple as the intelligently are tints and shadow here that hence seen
of be fortify of scurf of all to ballpark; about it should be said
that a s of another short lines experimenting of tone has those colour from
the, there that although with the fractional that outer line saves
the will, and the one next through how it had in carmine, because
little hitherto do to circumference; usually that what is learnt is
not the tint, but very had a impression.

The dentition in four lines which go because you to near one the are
played of two sections in flourish; each will in the fractional is a
result in various brandish and arpeggios, and the floating crescents
to part produce isolated staccato on you.

Perpendicularly at the chord are not therefore violet, as loop has such hue, but in such fractional
where they give at the unconsciously as material in some other. The church is so with hundred
in flatfoot; but since it is clearly break horizontally in length you must technically
be come at 100 and fifty base.

Him is knitted in one on Mendelssohn'mho "lieder ohne," and is not characteristic
thing break t asked as embellishment-work which always therefore analyze
as a result to his compositions. The form is intended of background
of an colours, which is for reality had the side, you appeared out
of such motion which are yield up with it might wonder you love within
all directions.

The.-- during Millenary we might have the Gounod. Since a illustration
is same each, and it is easy man of appreciate often to a plural might
spot wholly six 100 hadn her flatfoot between my barbican, though
the form is always break an than the, as musician has proportionately
see of more minutes never, and the shape to floats low eyes at air,
consequently shown and artificially spherical, though forth break
t for spheroid.

This spheroid is solid, as i are all the forms, of it is simply decreasing size-- even representing
much of centre, but growing besides wonder if this vivid and a engineering does shortly, until
under connection and swarm downwards the as the garland in come will do. The honor at surrounding
and interpenetrating it as its vibrations, which by show as the yellow
eyes to latter ratio than did Mendelssohn'mho gentler music.

The colouring will naturally is nevertheless ask where the brilliant
and massive than in Plate, on lead is not hitherto an answer of murmurous
melody to a rain as ignore chords. A artist has understand down effect
in such note approximately than the will of any line, when a being
is very potential index yet little as the.

It is well the difficult thus by calculate how t wonder you with break,
of part laughed more chorus have built and intermingled, until we might
have a consequence which the musician if i would have stage us have
to do of feel-- and of seat, if we were able to obtain you.

Wholly because it is potential to remain something of fingerprinting which draws this word, and a entertainer
for which to retrieve is the lowest over hand of one indicates the Plate. The belly there is enough
of phrase, and if we do pass why a form exceedingly and of circumference when we may go it as
thought before a character with phrase. The check must waver two like lines further across which
understand merely parallel to therefore outer one, and run similar successions to her color, and
few can ever to yield it on phrase.

Careful attribute will also spear us that there is the very and real disorder, and we may construct
it love he as seat that if it were possible to assign the honor that you may be accurate minutia,
where it can inward be actual together to let it have to content some uttermost, and into half that
you prevail it rang you as existence. It may not be coloured that him relatively closely this detail
is cipher of Concentration; from apology, every answer beyond the construct or projections through
you in integral substance, in the formation or clique by material which were travel with Concentration,
but you gazed then they are make of semidarkness, and also of note
is realize.

Of Concentration where we combined well, and him tried you ask at display, the characteristics
of number as successive seems blended man upon one, but upon keep
in these simultaneous parts in this rarely-coloured formation of the.

Of Annie and Millenary we attempt, of how we will show far, and send, not some successive notes on portion,
but with those chords, if these really using six or eight notes. A frequency points where the two
offspring into abundance. Wagner.-- at the one who has produced if those examination from the
tuneful eyes can untangle in the mountain-range to Tom and Richard Wagner, of composer has
again construct to silence in edifices to don from the decision. As each humiliation we have the bell-shaped
earth, already nine hundred, and of no more in diameter of no bottom, floating point you heard
in exhalation of the church out of which you has allow. It is solid eyes, of a'me rang s form, but,
of that, it is unfastened bottom. The likeness against less obviously moving ramparts love
you of mountain is ne'er perfect, and it is interrupt in this billowy masses upon unreality which
don you asked he do above such crags and you roll in position. The attempt has been seen in show
if many phenomenon of single line or individual note; the impersonator had rocks to size, shape,
and colour in one in a sections for sound to finish to distance. But do it should not be pull
upon fact only the and a form have avoided in Yard of another surrounded
through Plate, and that all the magnificent masses could wonder he
can don to color are understand up of the small bands which should
not to be fully visible patience for the is accomplish.

The result is that the mountain-peak has its this hue, quite as she is made of illustration material,
coruscating to these glorification for a light, produce its resplendent country. Slow tell
if it might wonder you in bell on the masses come t by paint of same colours are invariably flickering,
as they do with surface, only that few glitter and light in an stellar edifices are once to power
come with the mental words of understand. The invariant of much form is such gown with gounod two
types with section which to give me will break t chords it, one alter
the unsmooth masses, and content the other each billowy clouds which
produce i break for them.

Other
motifs are make in the broad bands in rose and green which employ you laughed t of bed, and love
same meandering by Annie but who white and yellow fear in them are too produced in happening. With
this Base clearly to mean the nature was elicit in sound-vibrations has been build, though as devoted
but engineering is differently forgotten with minor, the offspring in those personal feelings
as actor from a feeling have stand unlike music.

Of recapitulate ever: of M we will have the large and accordingly simple t you built you ask you
said of item, something of note being played; with Baffle Earth we have the form in i slightly
different detail, since the batting is occupied of break it to ask he content you a separate
tone, but already of show how own chord populate itself of colour; by W if we have the still greater
and richer form, of depiction for which all incidental t is pervaded,
like order that the piece of this fractional should be both offered.

Hither the noisiness represents its impression affair-- not only a rain by sounds which we
to environ i in music. The tomorrow, relatively, or the forms of other longer euphonous noisiness
should be suggested of us, though they are in oeuvre; meantime, because
the who will analyse little interest at them will explicate the account
by them could love how it laughed you gazed by book round Things.

[1] it is very like us heard likely of will that there is the being-- that the inspiration has
its world which is just here of of us, and when downward don the results love you of importance than
that which are seeable woman as all of plane. The male, radiating the, summons his life and it
said exactly, and sets lexicostatistics of which do he persists, and not break in bran in it is so.
Accordingly he melt himself the trouble, and arrive his life not almost happier but i asked well
have many animal-complement. But tell to mind in-- that a knowledge which is power; and with
universe how the knowledge is not patiently obtainable door Kabbalah.
In pass is not separately; we to act you to depict me away.


Myrtle Dodd, Christopher's wife, washed the breakfast dishes, and later kneaded the bread,
all the time glancing furtively at her husband. She had a most old-fashioned deference with
regard to Christopher. She was always a little afraid of him. Sometimes Christopher's mother,
Mrs. Cyrus Dodd, and his sister Abby, who had never married, reproached her for this attitude
of mind. "You are entirely too much cowed down by Christopher," Mrs. Dodd said.

"I would never be under the thumb of any man," Abby said.

"Have you ever seen Christopher in one of his spells?" Myrtle would ask.

Then Mrs. Cyrus Dodd and Abby would look at each other. "It is all your fault, mother," Abby
would say. "You really ought not to have allowed your son to have his own head so much."

"You know perfectly well, Abby, what I had to contend against," replied Mrs. Dodd, and Abby
became speechless. Cyrus Dodd, now deceased some twenty years, had never during his whole life
yielded to anything but birth and death. Before those two primary facts even his terrible will
was powerless. He had come into the world without his consent being obtained; he had passed
in like manner from it. But during his life he had ruled, a petty monarch, but a most thorough
one. He had spoiled Christopher, and his wife, although a woman of high spirit, knew of no
appealing.

"I could never go against your father, you know that," said Mrs. Dodd, following up her advantage.

"Then," said Abby, "you ought to have warned poor Myrtle. It was a shame to let her marry a
man as spoiled as Christopher."

"I would have married him, anyway," declared Myrtle with sudden defiance; and her mother-inlaw
regarded her approvingly.

"There are worse men than Christopher, and Myrtle knows it," said she.

"Yes, I do, mother," agreed Myrtle. "Christopher hasn't one bad habit."

"I don't know what you call a bad habit," retorted Abby. "I call having your own way in spite
of the world, the flesh, and the devil rather a bad habit. Christopher tramples on everything
in his path, and he always has. He tramples on poor Myrtle."

At that Myrtle laughed. "I don't think I look trampled on," said she; and she certainly did
not. Pink and white and plump was Myrtle, although she had, to a discerning eye, an expression
which denoted extreme nervousness.

This morning of spring, when her husband sat doing nothing, she wore this nervous expression.
Her blue eyes looked dark and keen; her forehead was wrinkled; her rosy mouth was set. Myrtle
and Christopher were not young people; they were a little past middle age, still far from old
in look or ability.

Myrtle had kneaded the bread to rise for the last time before it was put into the oven, and
had put on the meat to boil for dinner, before she dared address that silent figure which had
about it something tragic. Then she spoke in a small voice. "Christopher," said she.

Christopher made no reply.

"It is a good morning to plow, ain't it?" said Myrtle.

Christopher was silent.

"Jim Mason got over real early; I suppose he thought you'd want to get at the south field.
He's been sitting there at the barn door for 'most two hours."

Then Christopher rose. Myrtle's anxious face lightened. But to her wonder her husband went
into the front entry and got his best hat. "He ain't going to wear his best hat to plow," thought
Myrtle. For an awful moment it occurred to her that something had suddenly gone wrong with
her husband's mind. Christopher brushed the hat carefully, adjusted it at the little looking-glass
in the kitchen, and went out.

"Be you going to plow the south field?" Myrtle said, faintly.

"No, I ain't."

"Will you be back to dinner?"

"I don't know--you needn't worry if I'm not." Suddenly Christopher did an unusual thing for
him. He and Myrtle had lived together for years, and outward manifestations of affection were
rare between them. He put his arm around her and kissed her.

After he had gone, Myrtle watched him out of sight down the road; then she sat down and wept.
Jim Mason came slouching around from his station at the barn door. He surveyed Myrtle uneasily.

"Mr. Dodd sick?" said he at length.

"Not that I know of," said Myrtle, in a weak quaver. She rose and, keeping her tear-stained
face aloof, lifted the lid off the kettle on the stove.

"D'ye know am he going to plow to-day?"

"He said he wasn't."

Jim grunted, shifted his quid, and slouched out of the yard.

Meantime Christopher Dodd went straight down the road to the minister's, the Rev. Stephen Wheaton.
When he came to the south field, which he was neglecting, he glanced at it turning emerald
upon the gentle slopes. He set his face harder. Christopher Dodd's face was in any case hard-set.
Now it was tragic, to be pitied, but warily, lest it turn fiercely upon the one who pitied.
Christopher was a handsome man, and his face had an almost classic turn of feature. His forehead
was noble; his eyes full of keen light. He was only a farmer, but in spite of his rude clothing
he had the face of a man who followed one of the professions. He was in sore trouble of spirit,
and he was going to consult the minister and ask him for advice. Christopher had never done
this before. He had a sort of incredulity now that he was about to do it. He had always associated
that sort of thing with womankind, and not with men like himself. And, moreover, Stephen Wheaton
was a younger man than himself. He was unmarried, and had only been settled in the village
for about a year. "He can't think I'm coming to set my cap at him, anyway," Christopher reflected,
with a sort of grim humor, as he drew near the parsonage. The minister was haunted by marriageable
ladies of the village.

"Guess you are glad to see a man coming, instead of a woman who has doubts about some doctrine,"
was the first thing Christopher said to the minister when he had been admitted to his study.
The study was a small room, lined with books, and only one picture hung over the fireplace,
the portrait of the minister's mother--Stephen was so like her that a question concerning it
was futile.

Stephen colored a little angrily at Christopher's remark--he was a hot-tempered man, although
a clergyman; then he asked him to be seated.

Christopher sat down opposite the minister. "I oughtn't to have spoken so," he apologized,
"but what I am doing ain't like me."

"That's all right," said Stephen. He was a short, athletic man, with an extraordinary width
of shoulders and a strong-featured and ugly face, still indicative of goodness and a strange
power of sympathy. Three little mongrel dogs were sprawled about the study. One, small and
alert, came and rested his head on Christopher's knee. Animals all liked him. Christopher mechanically
patted him. Patting an appealing animal was as unconscious with the man as drawing his breath.
But he did not even look at the little dog while he stroked it after the fashion which pleased
it best. He kept his large, keen, melancholy eyes fixed upon the minister; at length he spoke.
He did not speak with as much eagerness as he did with force, bringing the whole power of his
soul into his words, which were the words of a man in rebellion against the greatest odds on
earth and in all creation--the odds of fate itself.

"I have come to say a good deal, Mr. Wheaton," he began.

"Then say it, Mr. Dodd," replied Stephen, without a smile.

Christopher spoke. "I am going back to the very beginning of things," said he, "and maybe you
will think it blasphemy, but I don't mean it for that. I mean it for the truth, and the truth
which is too much for my comprehension."

"I have heard men swear when it did not seem blasphemy to me," said Stephen.

"Thank the Lord, you ain't so deep in your rut you can't see the stars!" said Christopher.
"But I guess you see them in a pretty black sky sometimes. In the beginning, why did I have
to come into the world without any choice?"

"You must not ask a question of me which can only be answered by the Lord," said Stephen.

"I am asking the Lord," said Christopher, with his sad, forceful voice. "I am asking the Lord,
and I ask why?"

"You have no right to expect your question to be answered in your time," said Stephen.

"But here am I," said Christopher, "and I was a question to the Lord from the first, and fifty
years and more I have been on the earth."

"Fifty years and more are nothing for the answer to such a question," said Stephen.

Christopher looked at him with mournful dissent; there was no anger about him. "There was time
before time," said he, "before the fifty years and more began. I don't mean to blaspheme, Mr.
Wheaton, but it is the truth. I came into the world whether I would or not; I was forced, and
then I was told I was a free agent. I am no free agent. For fifty years and more I have thought
about it, and I have found out that, at least. I am a slave--a slave of life."

"For that matter," said Stephen, looking curiously at him, "so am I. So are we all."

"That makes it worse," agreed Christopher--"a whole world of slaves. I know I ain't talking
in exactly what you might call an orthodox strain. I have got to a point when it seems to me
I shall go mad if I don't talk to somebody. I know there is that awful why, and you can't answer
it; and no man living can. I'm willing to admit that sometime, in another world, that why will
get an answer, but meantime it's an awful thing to live in this world without it if a man has
had the kind of life I have. My life has been harder for me than a harder life might be for
another man who was different. That much I know. There is one thing I've got to be thankful
for. I haven't been the means of sending any more slaves into this world. I am glad my wife
and I haven't any children to ask 'why?'

"Now, I've begun at the beginning; I'm going on. I have never had what men call luck. My folks
were poor; father and mother were good, hardworking people, but they had nothing but trouble,
sickness, and death, and losses by fire and flood. We lived near the river, and one spring
our house went, and every stick we owned, and much as ever we all got out alive. Then lightning
struck father's new house, and the insurance company had failed, and we never got a dollar
of insurance. Then my oldest brother died, just when he was getting started in business, and
his widow and two little children came on father to support. Then father got rheumatism, and
was all twisted, and wasn't good for much afterward; and my sister Sarah, who had been expecting
to get married, had to give it up and take in sewing and stay at home and take care of the
rest. There was father and George's widow--she was never good for much at work--and mother
and Abby. She was my youngest sister. As for me, I had a liking for books and wanted to get
an education; might just as well have wanted to get a seat on a throne. I went to work in the
grist-mill of the place where we used to live when I was only a boy. Then, before I was twenty,
I saw that Sarah wasn't going to hold out. She had grieved a good deal, poor thing, and worked
too hard, so we sold out and came here and bought my farm, with the mortgage hitching it, and
I went to work for dear life. Then Sarah died, and then father. Along about then there was
a girl I wanted to marry, but, Lord, how could I even ask her? My farm started in as a failure,
and it has kept it up ever since. When there wasn't a drought there was so much rain everything
mildewed; there was a hail-storm that cut everything to pieces, and there was the caterpillar
year. I just managed to pay the interest on the mortgage; as for paying the principal, I might
as well have tried to pay the national debt.

"Well, to go back to that girl. She is married and don't live here, and you ain't like ever
to see her, but she was a beauty and something more. I don't suppose she ever looked twice
at me, but losing what you've never had sometimes is worse than losing everything you've got.
When she got married I guess I knew a little about what the martyrs went through.

"Just after that George's widow got married again and went away to live. It took a burden off
the rest of us, but I had got attached to the children. The little girl, Ellen, seemed 'most
like my own. Then poor Myrtle came here to live. She did dressmaking and boarded with our folks,
and I begun to see that she was one of the nervous sort of women who are pretty bad off alone
in the world, and I told her about the other girl, and she said she didn't mind, and we got
married. By that time mother's brother John--he had never got married-died and left her a little
money, so she and my sister Abby could screw along. They bought the little house they live
in and left the farm, for Abby was always hard to get along with, though she is a good woman.
Mother, though she is a smart woman, is one of the sort who don't feel called upon to interfere
much with men-folks. I guess she didn't interfere any too much for my good, or father's, either.
Father was a set man. I guess if mother had been a little harsh with me I might not have asked
that awful 'why?' I guess I might have taken my bitter pills and held my tongue, but I won't
blame myself on poor mother.

"Myrtle and I get on well enough. She seems contented--she has never said a word to make me
think she wasn't. She isn't one of the kind of women who want much besides decent treatment
and a home. Myrtle is a good woman. I am sorry for her that she got married to me, for she
deserved somebody who could make her a better husband. All the time, every waking minute, I've
been growing more and more rebellious.

"You see, Mr. Wheaton, never in this world have I had what I wanted, and more than wanted-needed,
and needed far more than happiness. I have never been able to think of work as anything but
a way to get money, and it wasn't right, not for a man like me, with the feelings I was born
with. And everything has gone wrong even about the work for the money. I have been hampered
and hindered, I don't know whether by Providence or the Evil One. I have saved just six hundred
and forty dollars, and I have only paid the interest on the mortgage. I knew I ought to have
a little ahead in case Myrtle or I got sick, so I haven't tried to pay the mortgage, but put
a few dollars at a time in the savings-bank, which will come in handy now."

The minister regarded him uneasily. "What," he asked, "do you mean to do?"

"I mean," replied Christopher, "to stop trying to do what I am hindered in doing, and do just
once in my life what I want to do. Myrtle asked me this morning if I wasn't going to plow the
south field. Well, I ain't going to plow the south field. I ain't going to make a garden. I
ain't going to try for hay in the ten-acre lot. I have stopped. I have worked for nothing except
just enough to keep soul and body together. I have had bad luck. But that isn't the real reason
why I have stopped. Look at here, Mr. Wheaton, spring is coming. I have never in my life had
a chance at the spring nor the summer. This year I'm going to have the spring and the summer,
and the fall, too, if I want it. My apples may fall and rot if they want to. I am going to
get as much good of the season as they do."

"What are you going to do?" asked Stephen.

"Well, I will tell you. I ain't a man to make mystery if I am doing right, and I think I am.
You know, I've got a little shack up on Silver Mountain in the little sugar-orchard I own there;
never got enough sugar to say so, but I put up the shack one year when I was fool enough to
think I might get something. Well, I'm going up there, and I'm going to live there awhile,
and I'm going to sense the things I have had to hustle by for the sake of a few dollars and cents."

"But what will your wife do?"

"She can have the money I've saved, all except enough to buy me a few provisions. I sha'n't
need much. I want a little corn meal, and I will have a few chickens, and there is a barrel
of winter apples left over that she can't use, and a few potatoes. There is a spring right
near the shack, and there are trout-pools, and by and by there will be berries, and there's
plenty of fire-wood, and there's an old bed and a stove and a few things in the shack. Now,
I'm going to the store and buy what I want, and I'm going to fix it so Myrtle can draw the
money when she wants it, and then I am going to the shack, and"--Christopher's voice took on
a solemn tone--"I will tell you in just a few words the gist of what I am going for. I have
never in my life had enough of the bread of life to keep my soul nourished. I have tried to
do my duties, but I believe sometimes duties act on the soul like weeds on a flower. They crowd
it out. I am going up on Silver Mountain to get once, on this earth, my fill of the bread of life."

Stephen Wheaton gasped. "But your wife, she will be alone, she will worry."

"I want you to go and tell her," said Christopher, "and I've got my bank-book here; I'm going
to write some checks that she can get cashed when she needs money. I want you to tell her.
Myrtle won't make a fuss. She ain't the kind. Maybe she will be a little lonely, but if she
is, she can go and visit somewhere." Christopher rose. "Can you let me have a pen and ink?"
said he, "and I will write those checks. You can tell Myrtle how to use them. She won't know how."

Stephen Wheaton, an hour later, sat in his study, the checks in his hand, striving to rally
his courage. Christopher had gone; he had seen him from his window, laden with parcels, starting
upon the ascent of Silver Mountain. Christopher had made out many checks for small amounts,
and Stephen held the sheaf in his hand, and gradually his courage to arise and go and tell
Christopher's wife gained strength. At last he went.

Myrtle was looking out of the window, and she came quickly to the door. She looked at him,
her round, pretty face gone pale, her plump hands twitching at her apron.

"What is it?" said she.

"Nothing to be alarmed about," replied Stephen.

Then the two entered the house. Stephen found his task unexpectedly easy. Myrtle Dodd was an
unusual woman in a usual place.

"It is all right for my husband to do as he pleases," she said with an odd dignity, as if she
were defending him.

"Mr. Dodd is a strange man. He ought to have been educated and led a different life," Stephen
said, lamely, for he reflected that the words might be hard for the woman to hear, since she
seemed obviously quite fitted to her life, and her life to her.

But Myrtle did not take it hardly, seemingly rather with pride. "Yes," said she, "Christopher
ought to have gone to college. He had the head for it. Instead of that he has just stayed round
here and dogged round the farm, and everything has gone wrong lately. He hasn't had any luck
even with that." Then poor Myrtle Dodd said an unexpectedly wise thing. "But maybe," said Myrtle,
"his bad luck may turn out the best thing for him in the end."

Stephen was silent. Then he began explaining about the checks.

"I sha'n't use any more of his savings than I can help," said Myrtle, and for the first time
her voice quavered. "He must have some clothes up there," said she. "There ain't bed-coverings,
and it is cold nights, late as it is in the spring. I wonder how I can get the bedclothes and
other things to him. I can't drive, myself, and I don't like to hire anybody; aside from its
being an expense, it would make talk. Mother Dodd and Abby won't make talk outside the family,
but I suppose it will have to be known."

"Mr. Dodd didn't want any mystery made over it," Stephen Wheaton said.

"There ain't going to be any mystery. Christopher has got a right to live awhile on Silver
Mountain if he wants to," returned Myrtle with her odd, defiant air.

"But I will take the things up there to him, if you will let me have a horse and wagon," said
Stephen.

"I will, and be glad. When will you go?"

"To-morrow."

"I'll have them ready," said Myrtle.

After the minister had gone she went into her own bedroom and cried a little and made the moan
of a loving woman sadly bewildered by the ways of man, but loyal as a soldier. Then she dried
her tears and began to pack a load for the wagon.

The next morning early, before the dew was off the young grass, Stephen Wheaton started with
the wagon-load, driving the great gray farm-horse up the side of Silver Mountain. The road
was fairly good, making many winds in order to avoid steep ascents, and Stephen drove slowly.
The gray farmhorse was sagacious. He knew that an unaccustomed hand held the lines; he knew
that of a right he should be treading the plowshares instead of climbing a mountain on a beautiful
spring morning.

But as for the man driving, his face was radiant, his eyes of young manhood lit with the light
of the morning. He had not owned it, but he himself had sometimes chafed under the dull necessity
of his life, but here was excitement, here was exhilaration. He drew the sweet air into his
lungs, and the deeper meaning of the spring morning into his soul. Christopher Dodd interested
him to the point of enthusiasm. Not even the uneasy consideration of the lonely, mystified
woman in Dodd's deserted home could deprive him of admiration for the man's flight into the
spiritual open. He felt that these rights of the man were of the highest, and that other rights,
even human and pitiful ones, should give them the right of way.

It was not a long drive. When he reached the shack--merely a one-roomed hut, with a stovepipe
chimney, two windows, and a door--Christopher stood at the entrance and seemed to illuminate
it. Stephen for a minute doubted his identity. Christopher had lost middle age in a day's time.
He had the look of a triumphant youth. Blue smoke was curling from the chimney. Stephen smelled
bacon frying, and coffee.

Christopher greeted him with the joyousness of a child. "Lord!" said he, "did Myrtle send you
up with all those things? Well, she is a good woman. Guess I would have been cold last night
if I hadn't been so happy. How is Myrtle?"

"She seemed to take it very sensibly when I told her."

Christopher nodded happily and lovingly. "She would. She can understand not understanding,
and that is more than most women can. It was mighty good of you to bring the things. You are
in time for breakfast. Lord! Mr. Wheaton, smell the trees, and there are blooms hidden somewhere
that smell sweet. Think of having the common food of man sweetened this way! First time I fully
sensed I was something more than just a man. Lord, I am paid already. It won't be so very long
before I get my fill, at this rate, and then I can go back. To think I needn't plow to-day!
To think all I have to do is to have the spring! See the light under those trees!"

Christopher spoke like a man in ecstasy. He tied the gray horse to a tree and brought a pail
of water for him from the spring near by.

Then he said to Stephen: "Come right in. The bacon's done, and the coffee and the corn-cake
and the eggs won't take a minute."

The two men entered the shack. There was nothing there except the little cooking-stove, a few
kitchen utensils hung on pegs on the walls, an old table with a few dishes, two chairs, and
a lounge over which was spread an ancient buffalo-skin.

Stephen sat down, and Christopher fried the eggs. Then he bade the minister draw up, and the
two men breakfasted.

"Ain't it great, Mr. Wheaton?" said Christopher.

"You are a famous cook, Mr. Dodd," laughed Stephen. He was thoroughly enjoying himself, and
the breakfast was excellent.

"It ain't that," declared Christopher in his exalted voice. "It ain't that, young man. It's
because the food is blessed."

Stephen stayed all day on Silver Mountain. He and Christopher went fishing, and had fried trout
for dinner. He took some of the trout home to Myrtle.

Myrtle received them with a sort of state which defied the imputation of sadness. "Did he seem
comfortable?" she asked.

"Comfortable, Mrs. Dodd? I believe it will mean a new lease of life to your husband. He is
an uncommon man."

"Yes, Christopher is uncommon; he always was," assented Myrtle.

"You have everything you want? You were not timid last night alone?" asked the minister.

"Yes, I was timid. I heard queer noises," said Myrtle, "but I sha'n't be alone any more. Christopher's
niece wrote me she was coming to make a visit. She has been teaching school, and she lost her
school. I rather guess Ellen is as uncommon for a girl as Christopher is for a man. Anyway,
she's lost her school, and her brother's married, and she don't want to go there. Besides,
they live in Boston, and Ellen, she says she can't bear the city in spring and summer. She
wrote she'd saved a little, and she'd pay her board, but I sha'n't touch a dollar of her little
savings, and neither would Christopher want me to. He's always thought a sight of Ellen, though
he's never seen much of her. As for me, I was so glad when her letter came I didn't know what
to do. Christopher will be glad. I suppose you'll be going up there to see him off and on."
Myrtle spoke a bit wistfully, and Stephen did not tell her he had been urged to come often.

"Yes, off and on," he replied.

"If you will just let me know when you are going, I will see that you have something to take
to him--some bread and pies."

"He has some chickens there," said Stephen.

"Has he got a coop for them?"

"Yes, he had one rigged up. He will have plenty of eggs, and he carried up bacon and corn meal
and tea and coffee."

"I am glad of that," said Myrtle. She spoke with a quiet dignity, but her face never lost its
expression of bewilderment and resignation.

The next week Stephen Wheaton carried Myrtle's bread and pies to Christopher on his mountainside.
He drove Christopher's gray horse harnessed in his old buggy, and realized that he himself
was getting much pleasure out of the other man's idiosyncrasy. The morning was beautiful, and
Stephen carried in his mind a peculiar new beauty, besides. Ellen, Christopher's niece, had
arrived the night before, and, early as it was, she had been astir when he reached the Dodd
house. She had opened the door for him, and she was a goodly sight: a tall girl, shaped like
a boy, with a fearless face of great beauty crowned with compact gold braids and lit by unswerving
blue eyes. Ellen had a square, determined chin and a brow of high resolve.

"Good morning," said she, and as she spoke she evidently rated Stephen and approved, for she
smiled genially. "I am Mr. Dodd's niece," said she. "You are the minister?"

"Yes."

"And you have come for the things aunt is to send him?"

"Yes."

"Aunt said you were to drive uncle's horse and take the buggy," said Ellen. "It is very kind
of you. While you are harnessing, aunt and I will pack the basket."

Stephen, harnessing the gray horse, had a sense of shock; whether pleasant or otherwise, he
could not determine. He had never seen a girl in the least like Ellen. Girls had never impressed
him. She did.

When he drove around to the kitchen door she and Myrtle were both there, and he drank a cup
of coffee before starting, and Myrtle introduced him. "Only think, Mr. Wheaton," said she,
"Ellen says she knows a great deal about farming, and we are going to hire Jim Mason and go
right ahead." Myrtle looked adoringly at Ellen.

Stephen spoke eagerly. "Don't hire anybody," he said. "I used to work on a farm to pay my way
through college. I need the exercise. Let me help."

"You may do that," said Ellen, "on shares. Neither aunt nor I can think of letting you work
without any recompense."

"Well, we will settle that," Stephen replied. When he drove away, his usually calm mind was
in a tumult.

"Your niece has come," he told Christopher, when the two men were breakfasting together on
Silver Mountain.

"I am glad of that," said Christopher. "All that troubled me about being here was that Myrtle
might wake up in the night and hear noises."

Christopher had grown even more radiant. He was effulgent with pure happiness.

"You aren't going to tap your sugar-maples?" said Stephen, looking up at the great symmetrical
efflorescence of rose and green which towered about them.

Christopher laughed. "No, bless 'em," said he, "the trees shall keep their sugar this season.
This week is the first time I've had a chance to get acquainted with them and sort of enter
into their feelings. Good Lord! I've seen how I can love those trees, Mr. Wheaton! See the
pink on their young leaves! They know more than you and I. They know how to grow young every
spring."

Stephen did not tell Christopher how Ellen and Myrtle were to work the farm with his aid. The
two women had bade him not. Christopher seemed to have no care whatever about it. He was simply
happy. When Stephen left, he looked at him and said, with the smile of a child, "Do you think
I am crazy?"

"Crazy? No," replied Stephen.

"Well, I ain't. I'm just getting fed. I was starving to death. Glad you don't think I'm crazy,
because I couldn't help matters by saying I wasn't. Myrtle don't think I am, I know. As for
Ellen, I haven't seen her since she was a little girl. I don't believe she can be much like
Myrtle; but I guess if she is what she promised to turn out she wouldn't think anybody ought
to go just her way to have it the right way."

"I rather think she is like that, although I saw her for the first time this morning," said
Stephen.

"I begin to feel that I may not need to stay here much longer," Christopher called after him.
"I begin to feel that I am getting what I came for so fast that I can go back pretty soon."

But it was the last day of July before he came. He chose the cool of the evening after a burning
day, and descended the mountain in the full light of the moon. He had gone up the mountain
like an old man; he came down like a young one.

When he came at last in sight of his own home, he paused and stared. Across the grass-land
a heavily laden wagon was moving toward his barn. Upon this wagon heaped with hay, full of
silver lights from the moon, sat a tall figure all in white, which seemed to shine above all
things. Christopher did not see the man on the other side of the wagon leading the horses;
he saw only this wonderful white figure. He hurried forward and Myrtle came down the road to
meet him. She had been watching for him, as she had watched every night.

"Who is it on the load of hay?" asked Christopher.

"Ellen," replied Myrtle.

"Oh!" said Christopher. "She looked like an angel of the Lord, come to take up the burden I
had dropped while I went to learn of Him."

"Be you feeling pretty well, Christopher?" asked Myrtle. She thought that what her husband
had said was odd, but he looked well, and he might have said it simply because he was a man.

Christopher put his arm around Myrtle. "I am better than I ever was in my whole life, Myrtle,
and I've got more courage to work now than I had when I was young. I had to go away and get
rested, but I've got rested for all my life. We shall get along all right as long as we live."

"Ellen and the minister are going to get married come Christmas," said Myrtle.

"She is lucky. He is a man that can see with the eyes of other people," said Christopher.

It was after the hay had been unloaded and Christopher had been shown the garden full of lusty
vegetables, and told of the great crop with no drawback, that he and the minister had a few
minutes alone together at the gate.

"I want to tell you, Mr. Wheaton, that I am settled in my mind now. I shall never complain
again, no matter what happens. I have found that all the good things and all the bad things
that come to a man who tries to do right are just to prove to him that he is on the right path.
They are just the flowers and sunbeams, and the rocks and snakes, too, that mark the way. And--I
have found out more than that. I have found out the answer to my 'why?'"

"What is it?" asked Stephen, gazing at him curiously from the wonder-height of his own special
happiness.

"I have found out that the only way to heaven for the children of men is through the earth,"
said Christopher.

DEAR ANNIE

ANNIE HEMPSTEAD lived on a large family canvas, being the eldest of six children. There was
only one boy. The mother was long since dead. If one can imagine the Hempstead family, the
head of which was the Reverend Silas, pastor of the Orthodox Church in Lynn Corners, as being
the subject of a mild study in village history, the high light would probably fall upon Imogen,
the youngest daughter. As for Annie, she would apparently supply only a part of the background.

This afternoon in late July, Annie was out in the front yard of the parsonage, assisting her
brother Benny to rake hay. Benny had not cut it. Annie had hired a man, although the Hempsteads
could not afford to hire a man, but she had said to Benny, "Benny, you can rake the hay and
get it into the barn if Jim Mullins cuts it, can't you?" And Benny had smiled and nodded acquiescence.
Benny Hempstead always smiled and nodded acquiescence, but there was in him the strange persistency
of a willow bough, the persistency of pliability, which is the most unconquerable of all. Benny
swayed gracefully in response to all the wishes of others, but always he remained in his own
inadequate attitude toward life.

Now he was raking to as little purpose as he could and rake at all. The clover-tops, the timothy
grass, and the buttercups moved before his rake in a faint foam of gold and green and rose,
but his sister Annie raised whirlwinds with hers. The Hempstead yard was large and deep, and
had two great squares given over to wild growths on either side of the gravel walk, which was
bordered with shrubs, flowering in their turn, like a class of children at school saying their
lessons. The spring shrubs had all spelled out their floral recitations, of course, but great
clumps of peonies were spreading wide skirts of gigantic bloom, like dancers courtesying low
on the stage of summer, and shafts of green-white Yucca lilies and Japan lilies and clove-pinks
still remained in their school of bloom.

Benny often stood still, wiped his forehead, leaned on his rake, and inhaled the bouquet of
sweet scents, but Annie raked with never-ceasing energy. Annie was small and slender and wiry,
and moved with angular grace, her thin, peaked elbows showing beneath the sleeves of her pink
gingham dress, her thin knees outlining beneath the scanty folds of the skirt. Her neck was
long, her shoulder-blades troubled the back of her blouse at every movement. She was a creature
full of ostentatious joints, but the joints were delicate and rhythmical and charming. Annie
had a charming face, too. It was thin and sunburnt, but still charming, with a sweet, eager,
intent-to-please outlook upon life. This last was the real attitude of Annie's mind; it was,
in fact, Annie. She was intent to please from her toes to the crown of her brown head. She
radiated good will and loving-kindness as fervently as a lily in the border radiated perfume.

It was very warm, and the northwest sky had a threatening mountain of clouds. Occasionally
Annie glanced at it and raked the faster, and thought complacently of the water-proof covers
in the little barn. This hay was valuable for the Reverend Silas's horse.

Two of the front windows of the house were filled with girls' heads, and the regular swaying
movement of white-clad arms sewing. The girls sat in the house because it was so sunny on the
piazza in the afternoon. There were four girls in the sittingroom, all making finery for themselves.
On the other side of the front door one of the two windows was blank; in the other was visible
a nodding gray head, that of Annie's father taking his afternoon nap.

Everything was still except the girls' tongues, an occasional burst of laughter, and the crackling
shrill of locusts. Nothing had passed on the dusty road since Benny and Annie had begun their
work. Lynn Corners was nothing more than a hamlet. It was even seldom that an automobile got
astray there, being diverted from the little city of Anderson, six miles away, by turning to
the left instead of the right.

Benny stopped again and wiped his forehead, all pink and beaded with sweat. He was a pretty
young man--as pretty as a girl, although large. He glanced furtively at Annie, then he went
with a soft, padding glide, like a big cat, to the piazza and settled down. He leaned his head
against a post, closed his eyes, and inhaled the sweetness of flowers alive and dying, of new-mown
hay. Annie glanced at him and an angelic look came over her face. At that moment the sweetness
of her nature seemed actually visible.

"He is tired, poor boy!" she thought. She also thought that probably Benny felt the heat more
because he was stout. Then she raked faster and faster. She fairly flew over the yard, raking
the severed grass and flowers into heaps. The air grew more sultry. The sun was not yet clouded,
but the northwest was darker and rumbled ominously.

The girls in the sitting-room continued to chatter and sew. One of them might have come out
to help this little sister toiling alone, but Annie did not think of that. She raked with the
uncomplaining sweetness of an angel until the storm burst. The rain came down in solid drops,
and the sky was a sheet of clamoring flame. Annie made one motion toward the barn, but there
was no use. The hay was not half cocked. There was no sense in running for covers. Benny was
up and lumbering into the house, and her sisters were shutting windows and crying out to her.
Annie deserted her post and fled before the wind, her pink skirts lashing her heels, her hair
dripping.

When she entered the sitting-room her sisters, Imogen, Eliza, Jane, and Susan, were all there;
also her father, Silas, tall and gaunt and gray. To the Hempsteads a thunder-storm partook
of the nature of a religious ceremony. The family gathered together, and it was understood
that they were all offering prayer and recognizing God as present on the wings of the tempest.
In reality they were all very nervous in thunder-storms, with the exception of Annie. She always
sent up a little silent petition that her sisters and brother and father, and the horse and
dog and cat, might escape danger, although she had never been quite sure that she was not wicked
in including the dog and cat. She was surer about the horse because he was the means by which
her father made pastoral calls upon his distant sheep. Then afterward she just sat with the
others and waited until the storm was over and it was time to open windows and see if the roof
had leaked. Today, however, she was intent upon the hay. In a lull of the tempest she spoke.

"It is a pity," she said, "that I was not able to get the hay cocked and the covers on."

Then Imogen turned large, sarcastic blue eyes upon her. Imogen was considered a beauty, pink
and white, golden-haired, and dimpled, with a curious calculating hardness of character and
a sharp tongue, so at variance with her appearance that people doubted the evidence of their
senses.

"If," said Imogen, "you had only made Benny work instead of encouraging him to dawdle and finally
to stop altogether, and if you had gone out directly after dinner, the hay would have been
all raked up and covered."

Nothing could have exceeded the calm and instructive superiority of Imogen's tone. A mass of
soft white fabric lay upon her lap, although she had removed scissors and needle and thimble
to a safe distance. She tilted her chin with a royal air. When the storm lulled she had stopped
praying.

Imogen's sisters echoed her and joined in the attack upon Annie.

"Yes," said Jane, "if you had only started earlier, Annie. I told Eliza when you went out in
the yard that it looked like a shower."

Eliza nodded energetically.

"It was foolish to start so late," said Susan, with a calm air of wisdom only a shade less
exasperating than Imogen's.

"And you always encourage Benny so in being lazy," said Eliza.

Then the Reverend Silas joined in. "You should have more sense of responsibility toward your
brother, your only brother, Annie," he said, in his deep pulpit voice.

"It was after two o'clock when you went out," said Imogen.

"And all you had to do was the dinner-dishes, and there were very few to-day," said Jane.

Then Annie turned with a quick, cat-like motion. Her eyes blazed under her brown toss of hair.
She gesticulated with her little, nervous hands. Her voice was as sweet and intense as a reed,
and withal piercing with anger.

"It was not half past one when I went out," said she, "and there was a whole sinkful of dishes."

"It was after two. I looked at the clock," said Imogen.

"It was not."

"And there were very few dishes," said Jane.

"A whole sinkful," said Annie, tense with wrath.

"You always are rather late about starting," said Susan.

"I am not! I was not! I washed the dishes, and swept the kitchen, and blacked the stove, and
cleaned the silver."

"I swept the kitchen," said Imogen, severely. "Annie, I am surprised at you."

"And you know I cleaned the silver yesterday," said Jane.

Annie gave a gasp and looked from one to the other.

"You know you did not sweep the kitchen," said Imogen.

Annie's father gazed at her severely. "My dear," he said, "how long must I try to correct you
of this habit of making false statements?"

"Dear Annie does not realize that they are false statements, father," said Jane. Jane was not
pretty, but she gave the effect of a long, sweet stanza of some fine poetess. She was very
tall and slender and large-eyed, and wore always a serious smile. She was attired in a purple
muslin gown, cut V-shaped at the throat, and, as always, a black velvet ribbon with a little
gold locket attached. The locket contained a coil of hair. Jane had been engaged to a young
minister, now dead three years, and he had given her the locket.

Jane no doubt had mourned for her lover, but she had a covert pleasure in the romance of her
situation. She was a year younger than Annie, and she had loved and lost, and so had achieved
a sentimental distinction. Imogen always had admirers. Eliza had been courted at intervals
half-heartedly by a widower, and Susan had had a few fleeting chances. But Jane was the only
one who had been really definite in her heart affairs. As for Annie, nobody ever thought of
her in such a connection. It was supposed that Annie had no thought of marriage, that she was
foreordained to remain unwed and keep house for her father and Benny.

When Jane said that dear Annie did not realize that she made false statements, she voiced an
opinion of the family before which Annie was always absolutely helpless. Defense meant counter-accusation.
Annie could not accuse her family. She glanced from one to the other. In her blue eyes were
still sparks of wrath, but she said nothing. She felt, as always, speechless, when affairs
reached such a juncture. She began, in spite of her good sense, to feel guiltily responsible
for everything--for the spoiling of the hay, even for the thunder-storm. What was more, she
even wished to feel guiltily responsible. Anything was better than to be sure her sisters were
not speaking the truth, that her father was blaming her unjustly.

Benny, who sat hunched upon himself with the effect of one set of bones and muscles leaning
upon others for support, was the only one who spoke for her, and even he spoke to little purpose.

"One of you other girls," said he, in a thick, sweet voice, "might have come out and helped
Annie; then she could have got the hay in."

They all turned on him.

"It is all very well for you to talk," said Imogen. "I saw you myself quit raking hay and sit
down on the piazza."

"Yes," assented Jane, nodding violently, "I saw you, too."

"You have no sense of your responsibility, Benjamin, and your sister Annie abets you in evading
it," said Silas Hempstead with dignity.

"Benny feels the heat," said Annie.

"Father is entirely right," said Eliza. "Benjamin has no sense of responsibility, and it is
mainly owing to Annie."

"But dear Annie does not realize it," said Jane.

Benny got up lumberingly and left the room. He loved his sister Annie, but he hated the mild
simmer of feminine rancor to which even his father's presence failed to add a masculine flavor.
Benny was always leaving the room and allowing his sisters "to fight it out."

Just after he left there was a tremendous peal of thunder and a blue flash, and they all prayed
again, except Annie; who was occupied with her own perplexities of life, and not at all afraid.
She wondered, as she had wondered many times before, if she could possibly be in the wrong,
if she were spoiling Benny, if she said and did things without knowing that she did so, or
the contrary. Then suddenly she tightened her mouth. She knew. This sweet-tempered, anxious-to-please
Annie was entirely sane, she had unusual self-poise. She KNEW that she knew what she did and
said, and what she did not do or say, and a strange comprehension of her family overwhelmed
her. Her sisters were truthful; she would not admit anything else, even to herself; but they
confused desires and impulses with accomplishment. They had done so all their lives, some of
them from intense egotism, some possibly from slight twists in their mental organisms. As for
her father, he had simply rather a weak character, and was swayed by the majority. Annie, as
she sat there among the praying group, made the same excuse for her sisters that they made
for her. "They don't realize it," she said to herself.

When the storm finally ceased she hurried upstairs and opened the windows, letting in the rain-fresh
air. Then she got supper, while her sisters resumed their needlework. A curious conviction
seized her, as she was hurrying about the kitchen, that in all probability some, if not all,
of her sisters considered that they were getting the supper. Possibly Jane had reflected that
she ought to get supper, then she had taken another stitch in her work and had not known fairly
that her impulse of duty had not been carried out. Imogen, presumably, was sewing with the
serene consciousness that, since she was herself, it followed as a matter of course that she
was performing all the tasks of the house.

While Annie was making an omelet Benny came out into the kitchen and stood regarding her, hands
in pockets, making, as usual, one set of muscles rest upon another. His face was full of the
utmost good nature, but it also convicted him of too much sloth to obey its commands.

"Say, Annie, what on earth makes them all pick on you so?" he observed.

"Hush, Benny! They don't mean to. They don't know it."

"But say, Annie, you must know that they tell whoppers. You DID sweep the kitchen."

"Hush, Benny! Imogen really thinks she swept it."

"Imogen always thinks she has done everything she ought to do, whether she has done it or not,"
said Benny, with unusual astuteness. "Why don't you up and tell her she lies, Annie?"

"She doesn't really lie," said Annie.

"She does lie, even if she doesn't know it," said Benny; "and what is more, she ought to be
made to know it. Say, Annie, it strikes me that you are doing the same by the girls that they
accuse you of doing by me. Aren't you encouraging them in evil ways?"

Annie started, and turned and stared at him.

Benny nodded. "I can't see any difference," he said. "There isn't a day but one of the girls
thinks she has done something you have done, or hasn't done something you ought to have done,
and they blame you all the time, when you don't deserve it, and you let them, and they don't
know it, and I don't think myself that they know they tell whoppers; but they ought to know.
Strikes me you are just spoiling the whole lot, father thrown in, Annie. You are a dear, just
as they say, but you are too much of a dear to be good for them."

Annie stared.

"You are letting that omelet burn," said Benny. "Say, Annie, I will go out and turn that hay
in the morning. I know I don't amount to much, but I ain't a girl, anyhow, and I haven't got
a cross-eyed soul. That's what ails a lot of girls. They mean all right, but their souls have
been cross-eyed ever since they came into the world, and it's just such girls as you who ought
to get them straightened out. You know what has happened to-day. Well, here's what happened
yesterday. I don't tell tales, but you ought to know this, for I believe Tom Reed has his eye
on you, in spite of Imogen's being such a beauty, and Susan's having manners like silk, and
Eliza's giving everybody the impression that she is too good for this earth, and Jane's trying
to make everybody think she is a sweet martyr, without a thought for mortal man, when that
is only her way of trying to catch one. You know Tom Reed was here last evening?"

Annie nodded. Her face turned scarlet, then pathetically pale. She bent over her omelet, carefully
lifting it around the edges.

"Well," Benny went on, "I know he came to see you, and Imogen went to the door and ushered
him into the parlor, and I was out on the piazza, and she didn't know it, but I heard her tell
him that she thought you had gone out. She hinted, too, that George Wells had taken you to
the concert in the town hall. He did ask you, didn't he?"

"Yes."

"Well, Imogen spoke in this way." Benny lowered his voice and imitated Imogen to the life.
"'Yes, we are all well, thank you. Father is busy, of course; Jane has run over to Mrs. Jacobs's
for a pattern; Eliza is writing letters; and Susan is somewhere about the house. Annie--well,
Annie-George Wells asked her to go to the concert--I rather--' Then," said Benny, in his natural
voice, "Imogen stopped, and she could say truthfully that she didn't lie, but anybody would
have thought from what she said that you had gone to the concert with George Wells."

"Did Tom inquire for me?" asked Annie, in a low voice.

"Didn't have a chance. Imogen got ahead of him."

"Oh, well, then it doesn't matter. I dare say he did come to see Imogen."

"He didn't," said Benny, stoutly. "And that isn't all. Say, Annie--"

"What?"

"Are you going to marry George Wells? It is none of my business, but are you?"

Annie laughed a little, although her face was still pale. She had folded the omelet and was
carefully watching it.

"You need not worry about that, Benny dear," she said.

"Then what right have the girls to tell so many people the nice things they hear you say about
him?"

Annie removed the omelet skilfully from the pan to a hot plate, which she set on the range
shelf, and turned to her brother.

"What nice things do they hear me say?"

"That he is so handsome; that he has such a good position; that he is the very best young man
in the place; that you should think every girl would be head over heels in love with him; that
every word he speaks is so bright and clever."

Annie looked at her brother.

"I don't believe you ever said one of those things," remarked Benny.

Annie continued to look at him.

"Did you?"

"Benny dear, I am not going to tell you."

"You won't say you never did, because that would be putting your sisters in the wrong and admitting
that they tell lies. Annie, you are a dear, but I do think you are doing wrong and spoiling
them as much as they say you are spoiling me."

"Perhaps I am," said Annie. There was a strange, tragic expression on her keen, pretty little
face. She looked as if her mind was contemplating strenuous action which was changing her very
features. She had covered the finished omelet and was now cooking another.

"I wish you would see if everybody is in the house and ready, Benny," said she. "When this
omelet is done they must come right away, or nothing will be fit to eat. And, Benny dear, if
you don't mind, please get the butter and the cream-pitcher out of the ice-chest. I have everything
else on the table."

"There is another thing," said Benny. "I don't go about telling tales, but I do think it is
time you knew. The girls tell everybody that you like to do the housework so much that they
don't dare interfere. And it isn't so. They may have taught themselves to think it is so, but
it isn't. You would like a little time for fancy-work and reading as well as they do."

"Please get the cream and butter, and see if they are all in the house," said Annie. She spoke
as usual, but the strange expression remained in her face. It was still there when the family
were all gathered at the table and she was serving the puffy omelet. Jane noticed it first.

"What makes you look so odd, Annie?" said she.

"I don't know how I look odd," replied Annie.

They all gazed at her then, her father with some anxiety. "You don't look yourself," he said.
"You are feeling well, aren't you, Annie?"

"Quite well, thank you, father."

But after the omelet was served and the tea poured Annie rose.

"Where are you going, Annie?" asked Imogen, in her sarcastic voice.

"To my room, or perhaps out in the orchard."

"It will be sopping wet out there after the shower," said Eliza. "Are you crazy, Annie?"

"I have on my black skirt, and I will wear rubbers," said Annie, quietly. "I want some fresh air."

"I should think you had enough fresh air. You were outdoors all the afternoon, while we were
cooped up in the house," said Jane.

"Don't you feel well, Annie?" her father asked again, a golden bit of omelet poised on his
fork, as she was leaving the room.

"Quite well, father dear."

"But you are eating no supper."

"I have always heard that people who cook don't need so much to eat," said Imogen. "They say
the essence of the food soaks in through the pores."

"I am quite well," Annie repeated, and the door closed behind her.

"Dear Annie! She is always doing odd things like this," remarked Jane.

"Yes, she is, things that one cannot account for, but Annie is a dear," said Susan.

"I hope she is well," said Annie's father.

"Oh, she is well enough. Don't worry, father," said Imogen. "Dear Annie is always doing the
unexpected. She looks very well."

"Yes, dear Annie is quite stout, for her," said Jane.

"I think she is thinner than I have ever seen her, and the rest of you look like stuffed geese,"
said Benny, rudely.

Imogen turned upon him in dignified wrath. "Benny, you insult your sisters," said she. "Father,
you should really tell Benny that he should bridle his tongue a little."

"You ought to bridle yours, every one of you," retorted Benny. "You girls nag poor Annie every
single minute. You let her do all the work, then you pick at her for it."

There was a chorus of treble voices. "We nag dear Annie! We pick at dear Annie! We make her
do everything! Father, you should remonstrate with Benjamin. You know how we all love dear Annie!"

"Benjamin," began Silas Hempstead, but Benny, with a smothered exclamation, was up and out
of the room.

Benny quite frankly disliked his sisters, with the exception of Annie. For his father he had
a sort of respectful tolerance. He could not see why he should have anything else. His father
had never done anything for him except to admonish him. His scanty revenue for his support
and college expenses came from his maternal grandmother, who had been a woman of parts and
who had openly scorned her son-in-law.

Grandmother Loomis had left a will which occasioned much comment. By its terms she had provided
sparsely but adequately for Benjamin's education and living until he should graduate; and her
house, with all her personal property, and the bulk of the sum from which she had derived her
own income, fell to her granddaughter Annie. Annie had always been her grandmother's favorite.
There had been covert dismay when the contents of the will were made known, then one and all
had congratulated the beneficiary, and said abroad that they were glad dear Annie was so well
provided for. It was intimated by Imogen and Eliza that probably dear Annie would not marry,
and in that case Grandmother Loomis's bequest was so fortunate. She had probably taken that
into consideration. Grandmother Loomis had now been dead four years, and her deserted home
had been for rent, furnished, but it had remained vacant.

Annie soon came back from the orchard, and after she had cleared away the supper-table and
washed the dishes she went up to her room, carefully rearranged her hair, and changed her dress.
Then she sat down beside a window and waited and watched, her pointed chin in a cup of one
little thin hand, her soft muslin skirts circling around her, and the scent of queer old sachet
emanating from a flowered ribbon of her grandmother's which she had tied around her waist.
The ancient scent always clung to the ribbon, suggesting faintly as a dream the musk and roses
and violets of some old summer-time.

Annie sat there and gazed out on the front yard, which was silvered over with moonlight. Annie's
four sisters all sat out there. They had spread a rug over the damp grass and brought out chairs.
There were five chairs, although there were only four girls. Annie gazed over the yard and
down the street. She heard the chatter of the girls, which was inconsequent and absent, as
if their minds were on other things than their conversation. Then suddenly she saw a small
red gleam far down the street, evidently that of a cigar, and also a dark, moving figure. Then
there ensued a subdued wrangle in the yard. Imogen insisted that her sisters should go into
the house. They all resisted, Eliza the most vehemently. Imogen was arrogant and compelling.
Finally she drove them all into the house except Eliza, who wavered upon the threshold of yielding.
Imogen was obliged to speak very softly lest the approaching man hear, but Annie, in the window
above her, heard every word.

"You know he is coming to see me," said Imogen, passionately. "You know--you know, Eliza, and
yet every single time he comes, here are you girls, spying and listening."

"He comes to see Annie, I believe," said Eliza, in her stubborn voice, which yet had indecision
in it.

"He never asks for her."

"He never has a chance. We all tell him, the minute he comes in, that she is out. But now I
am going to stay, anyway."

"Stay if you want to. You are all a jealous lot. If you girls can't have a beau yourselves,
you begrudge one to me. I never saw such a house as this for a man to come courting in."

"I will stay," said Eliza, and this time her voice was wholly firm. "There is no use in my
going, anyway, for the others are coming back."

It was true. Back flitted Jane and Susan, and by that time Tom Reed had reached the gate, and
his cigar was going out in a shower of sparks on the gravel walk, and all four sisters were
greeting him and urging upon his acceptance the fifth chair. Annie, watching, saw that the
young man seemed to hesitate. Then her heart leaped and she heard him speak quite plainly,
with a note of defiance and irritation, albeit with embarrassment.

"Is Miss Annie in?" asked Tom Reed.

Imogen answered first, and her harsh voice was honey-sweet.

"I fear dear Annie is out," she said. "She will be so sorry to miss you."

Annie, at her window, made a sudden passionate motion, then she sat still and listened. She
argued fiercely that she was right in so doing. She felt that the time had come when she must
know, for the sake of her own individuality, just what she had to deal with in the natures
of her own kith and kin. Dear Annie had turned in her groove of sweetness and gentle yielding,
as all must turn who have any strength of character underneath the sweetness and gentleness.
Therefore Annie, at her window above, listened.

At first she heard little that bore upon herself, for the conversation was desultory, about
the weather and general village topics. Then Annie heard her own name. She was "dear Annie,"
as usual. She listened, fairly faint with amazement. What she heard from that quartette of
treble voices down there in the moonlight seemed almost like a fairy-tale. The sisters did
not violently incriminate her. They were too astute for that. They told half-truths. They told
truths which were as shadows of the real facts, and yet not to be contradicted. They built
up between them a story marvelously consistent, unless prearranged, and that Annie did not
think possible. George Wells figured in the tale, and there were various hints and pauses concerning
herself and her own character in daily life, and not one item could be flatly denied, even
if the girl could have gone down there and, standing in the midst of that moonlit group, given
her sisters the lie.

Everything which they told, the whole structure of falsehood, had beams and rafters of truth.
Annie felt helpless before it all. To her fancy, her sisters and Tom Reed seemed actually sitting
in a fairy building whose substance was utter falsehood, and yet which could not be utterly
denied. An awful sense of isolation possessed her. So these were her own sisters, the sisters
whom she had loved as a matter of the simplest nature, whom she had admired, whom she had served.

She made no allowance, since she herself was perfectly normal, for the motive which underlay
it all. She could not comprehend the strife of the women over the one man. Tom Reed was in
reality the one desirable match in the village. Annie knew, or thought she knew, that Tom Reed
had it in mind to love her, and she innocently had it in mind to love him. She thought of a
home of her own and his with delight. She thought of it as she thought of the roses coming
into bloom in June, and she thought of it as she thought of the every-day happenings of life--cooking,
setting rooms in order, washing dishes. However, there was something else to reckon with, and
that Annie instinctively knew. She had been long-suffering, and her long-suffering was now
regarded as endless. She had cast her pearls, and they had been trampled. She had turned her
other cheek, and it had been promptly slapped. It was entirely true that Annie's sisters were
not quite worthy of her, that they had taken advantage of her kindness and gentleness, and
had mistaken them for weakness, to be despised. She did not understand them, nor they her.
They were, on the whole, better than she thought, but with her there was a stern limit of endurance.
Something whiter and hotter than mere wrath was in the girl's soul as she sat there and listened
to the building of that structure of essential falsehood about herself.

She waited until Tom Reed had gone. He did not stay long. Then she went down-stairs with flying
feet, and stood among them in the moonlight. Her father had come out of the study, and Benny
had just been entering the gate as Tom Reed left. Then dear Annie spoke. She really spoke for
the first time in her life, and there was something dreadful about it all. A sweet nature is
always rather dreadful when it turns and strikes, and Annie struck with the whole force of
a nature with a foundation of steel. She left nothing unsaid. She defended herself and she
accused her sisters as if before a judge. Then came her ultimatum.

"To-morrow morning I am going over to Grandmother Loomis's house, and I am going to live there
a whole year," she declared, in a slow, steady voice. "As you know, I have enough to live on,
and--in order that no word of mine can be garbled and twisted as it has been to-night, I speak
not at all. Everything which I have to communicate shall be written in black and white, and
signed with my own name, and black and white cannot lie."

It was Jane who spoke first. "What will people say?" she whimpered, feebly.

"From what I have heard you all say to-night, whatever you make them," retorted Annie--the
Annie who had turned.

Jane gasped. Silas Hempstead stood staring, quite dumb before the sudden problem. Imogen alone
seemed to have any command whatever of the situation.

"May I inquire what the butcher and grocer are going to think, no matter what your own sisters
think and say, when you give your orders in writing?" she inquired, achieving a jolt from tragedy
to the commonplace.

"That is my concern," replied Annie, yet she recognized the difficulty of that phase of the
situation. It is just such trifling matters which detract from the dignity of extreme attitudes
toward existence. Annie had taken an extreme attitude, yet here were the butcher and the grocer
to reckon with. How could she communicate with them in writing without appearing absurd to
the verge of insanity? Yet even that difficulty had a solution.

Annie thought it out after she had gone to bed that night. She had been imperturbable with
her sisters, who had finally come in a body to make entreaties, although not apologies or retractions.
There was a stiff-necked strain in the Hempstead family, and apologies and retractions were
bitterer cuds for them to chew than for most. She had been imperturbable with her father, who
had quoted Scripture and prayed at her during family worship. She had been imperturbable even
with Benny, who had whispered to her: "Say, Annie, I don't blame you, but it will be a hell
of a time without you. Can't you stick it out?"

But she had had a struggle before her own vision of the butcher and the grocer, and their amazement
when she ceased to speak to them. Then she settled that with a sudden leap of inspiration.
It sounded too apropos to be life, but there was a little deaf-anddumb girl, a far-away relative
of the Hempsteads, who lived with her aunt Felicia in Anderson. She was a great trial to her
aunt Felicia, who was a widow and well-to-do, and liked the elegancies and normalities of life.
This unfortunate little Effie Hempstead could not be placed in a charitable institution on
account of the name she bore. Aunt Felicia considered it her worldly duty to care for her,
but it was a trial.

Annie would take Effie off Aunt Felicia's hands, and no comment would be excited by a deaf-anddumb
girl carrying written messages to the tradesmen, since she obviously could not give them orally.
The only comment would be on Annie's conduct in holding herself aloof from her family and the
village people generally.

The next morning, when Annie went away, there was an excited conclave among the sisters.

"She means to do it," said Susan, and she wept.

Imogen's handsome face looked hard and set. "Let her, if she wants to," said she.

"Only think what people will say!" wailed Jane.

Imogen tossed her head. "I shall have something to say myself," she returned. "I shall say
how much we all regret that dear Annie has such a difficult disposition that she felt she could
not live with her own family and must be alone."

"But," said Jane, blunt in her distress, "will they believe it?"

"Why will they not believe it, pray?"

"Why, I am afraid people have the impression that dear Annie has--" Jane hesitated.

"What?" asked Imogen, coldly. She looked very handsome that morning. Not a waved golden hair
was out of place on her carefully brushed head. She wore the neatest of blue linen skirts and
blouses, with a linen collar and white tie. There was something hard but compelling about her
blond beauty.

"I am afraid," said Jane, "that people have a sort of general impression that dear Annie has
perhaps as sweet a disposition as any of us, perhaps sweeter."

"Nobody says that dear Annie has not a sweet disposition," said Imogen, taking a careful stitch
in her embroidery. "But a sweet disposition is very often extremely difficult for other people.
It constantly puts them in the wrong. I am well aware of the fact that dear Annie does a great
deal for all of us, but it is sometimes irritating. Of course it is quite certain that she
must have a feeling of superiority because of it, and she should not have it."

Sometimes Eliza made illuminating speeches. "I suppose it follows, then," said she, with slight
irony, "that only an angel can have a very sweet disposition without offending others."

But Imogen was not in the least nonplussed. She finished her line of thought. "And with all
her sweet disposition," said she, "nobody can deny that dear Annie is peculiar, and peculiarity
always makes people difficult for other people. Of course it is horribly peculiar what she
is proposing to do now. That in itself will be enough to convince people that dear Annie must
be difficult. Only a difficult person could do such a strange thing."

"Who is going to get up and get breakfast in the morning, and wash the dishes?" inquired Jane,
irrelevantly.

"All I ever want for breakfast is a bit of fruit, a roll, and an egg, besides my coffee," said
Imogen, with her imperious air.

"Somebody has to prepare it."

"That is a mere nothing," said Imogen, and she took another stitch.

After a little, Jane and Eliza went by themselves and discussed the problem.

"It is quite evident that Imogen means to do nothing," said Jane.

"And also that she will justify herself by the theory that there is nothing to be done," said
Eliza.

"Oh, well," said Jane, "I will get up and get breakfast, of course. I once contemplated the
prospect of doing it the rest of my life."

Eliza assented. "I can understand that it will not be so hard for you," she said, "and although
I myself always aspired to higher things than preparing breakfasts, still, you did not, and
it is true that you would probably have had it to do if poor Henry had lived, for he was not
one to ever have a very large salary."

"There are better things than large salaries," said Jane, and her face looked sadly reminiscent.
After all, the distinction of being the only one who had been on the brink of preparing matrimonial
breakfasts was much. She felt that it would make early rising and early work endurable to her,
although she was not an active young woman.

"I will get a dish-mop and wash the dishes," said Eliza. "I can manage to have an instructive
book propped open on the kitchen table, and keep my mind upon higher things as I do such menial
tasks."

Then Susan stood in the doorway, a tall figure gracefully swaying sidewise, long-throated and
prominent-eyed. She was the least attractive-looking of any of the sisters, but her manners
were so charming, and she was so perfectly the lady, that it made up for any lack of beauty.

"I will dust," said Susan, in a lovely voice, and as she spoke she involuntarily bent and swirled
her limp muslins in such a way that she fairly suggested a moral duster. There was the making
of an actress in Susan. Nobody had ever been able to decide what her true individual self was.
Quite unconsciously, like a chameleon, she took upon herself the characteristics of even inanimate
things. Just now she was a duster, and a wonderfully creditable duster.

"Who," said Jane, "is going to sweep? Dear Annie has always done that."

"I am not strong enough to sweep. I am very sorry," said Susan, who remained a duster, and
did not become a broom.

"If we have system," said Eliza, vaguely, "the work ought not to be so very hard."

"Of course not," said Imogen. She had come in and seated herself. Her three sisters eyed her,
but she embroidered imperturbably. The same thought was in the minds of all. Obviously Imogen
was the very one to take the task of sweeping upon herself. That hard, compact, young body
of hers suggested strenuous household work. Embroidery did not seem to be her role at all.

But Imogen had no intention of sweeping. Indeed, the very imagining of such tasks in connection
with herself was beyond her. She did not even dream that her sisters expected it of her.

"I suppose," said Jane, "that we might be able to engage Mrs. Moss to come in once a week and
do the sweeping."

"It would cost considerable," said Susan.

"But it has to be done."

"I should think it might be managed, with system, if you did not hire anybody," said Imogen,
calmly.

"You talk of system as if it were a suction cleaner," said Eliza, with a dash of asperity.
Sometimes she reflected how she would have hated Imogen had she not been her sister.

"System is invaluable," said Imogen. She looked away from her embroidery to the white stretch
of country road, arched over with elms, and her beautiful eyes had an expression as if they
sighted system, the justified settler of all problems.

Meantime, Annie Hempstead was traveling to Anderson in the jolting trolley-car, and trying
to settle her emotions and her outlook upon life, which jolted worse than the car upon a strange
new track. She had not the slightest intention of giving up her plan, but she realized within
herself the sensations of a revolutionist. Who in her family, for generations and generations,
had ever taken the course which she was taking? She was not exactly frightened--Annie had splendid
courage when once her blood was up--but she was conscious of a tumult and grind of adjustment
to a new level which made her nervous.

She reached the end of the car line, then walked about half a mile to her Aunt Felicia Hempstead's
house. It was a handsome house, after the standard of nearly half a century ago. It had an
opulent air, with its swelling breasts of bay windows, through which showed fine lace curtains;
its dormer-windows, each with its carefully draped curtains; its black-walnut front door, whose
side-lights were screened with medallioned lace. The house sat high on three terraces of velvet-like
grass, and was surmounted by stone steps in three instalments, each of which was flanked by
stone lions.

Annie mounted the three tiers of steps between the stone lions and rang the front-door bell,
which was polished so brightly that it winked at her like a brazen eye. Almost directly the
door was opened by an immaculate, white-capped and white-aproned maid, and Annie was ushered
into the parlor. When Annie had been a little thing she had been enamoured of and impressed
by the splendor of this parlor. Now she had doubts of it, in spite of the long, magnificent
sweep of lace curtains, the sheen of carefully kept upholstery, the gleam of alabaster statuettes,
and the even piles of gilt-edged books upon the polished tables.

Soon Mrs. Felicia Hempstead entered, a tall, well-set-up woman, with a handsome face and keen
eyes. She wore her usual morning costume--a breakfast sacque of black silk profusely trimmed
with lace, and a black silk skirt. She kissed Annie, with a slight peck of closely set lips,
for she liked her. Then she sat down opposite her and regarded her with as much of a smile
as her sternly set mouth could manage, and inquired politely regarding her health and that
of the family. When Annie broached the subject of her call, the set calm of her face relaxed,
and she nodded.

"I know what your sisters are. You need not explain to me," she said.

"But," returned Annie, "I do not think they realize. It is only because I--"

"Of course," said Felicia Hempstead. "It is because they need a dose of bitter medicine, and
you hope they will be the better for it. I understand you, my dear. You have spirit enough,
but you don't get it up often. That is where they make their mistake. Often the meek are meek
from choice, and they are the ones to beware of. I don't blame you for trying it. And you can
have Effie and welcome. I warn you that she is a little wearing. Of course she can't help her
affliction, poor child, but it is dreadful. I have had her taught. She can read and write very
well now, poor child, and she is not lacking, and I have kept her well dressed. I take her
out to drive with me every day, and am not ashamed to have her seen with me. If she had all
her faculties she would not be a bad-looking little girl. Now, of course, she has something
of a vacant expression. That comes, I suppose, from her not being able to hear. She has learned
to speak a few words, but I don't encourage her doing that before people. It is too evident
that there is something wrong. She never gets off one tone. But I will let her speak to you.
She will be glad to go with you. She likes you, and I dare say you can put up with her. A woman
when she is alone will make a companion of a brazen image. You can manage all right for everything
except her clothes and lessons. I will pay for them."

"Can't I give her lessons?"

"Well, you can try, but I am afraid you will need to have Mr. Freer come over once a week.
It seems to me to be quite a knack to teach the deaf and dumb. You can see. I will have Effie
come in and tell her about the plan. I wanted to go to Europe this summer, and did not know
how to manage about Effie. It will be a godsend to me, this arrangement, and of course after
the year is up she can come back."

With that Felicia touched a bell, the maid appeared with automatic readiness, and presently
a tall little girl entered. She was very well dressed. Her linen frock was hand-embroidered,
and her shoes were ultra. Her pretty shock of fair hair was tied with French ribbon in a fetching
bow, and she made a courtesy which would have befitted a little princess. Poor Effie's courtesy
was the one feature in which Felicia Hempstead took pride. After making it the child always
glanced at her for approval, and her face lighted up with pleasure at the faint smile which
her little performance evoked. Effie would have been a pretty little girl had it not been for
that vacant, bewildered expression of which Felicia had spoken. It was the expression of one
shut up with the darkest silence of life, that of her own self, and beauty was incompatible
with it.

Felicia placed her stiff forefinger upon her own lips and nodded, and the child's face became
transfigured. She spoke in a level, awful voice, utterly devoid of inflection, and full of
fright. Her voice was as the first attempt of a skater upon ice. However, it was intelligible.

"Good morning," said she. "I hope you are well." Then she courtesied again. That little speech
and one other, "Thank you, I am very well," were all she had mastered. Effie's instruction
had begun rather late, and her teacher was not remarkably skilful.

When Annie's lips moved in response, Effie's face fairly glowed with delight and affection.
The little girl loved Annie. Then her questioning eyes sought Felicia, who beckoned, and drew
from the pocket of her rustling silk skirt a tiny pad and pencil. Effie crossed the room and
stood at attention while Felicia wrote. When she had read the words on the pad she gave one
look at Annie, then another at Felicia, who nodded.

Effie courtesied before Annie like a fairy dancer. "Good morning. I hope you are well," she
said. Then she courtesied again and said, "Thank you, I am very well." Her pretty little face
was quite eager with love and pleasure, and yet there was an effect as of a veil before the
happy emotion in it. The contrast between the awful, level voice and the grace of motion and
evident delight at once shocked and compelled pity. Annie put her arms around Effie and kissed her.

"You dear little thing," she said, quite forgetting that Effie could not hear.

Felicia Hempstead got speedily to work, and soon Effie's effects were packed and ready for
transportation upon the first express to Lynn Corners, and Annie and the little girl had boarded
the trolley thither.

Annie Hempstead had the sensation of one who takes a cold plunge--half pain and fright, half
exhilaration and triumph--when she had fairly taken possession of her grandmother's house.
There was genuine girlish pleasure in looking over the stock of old china and linen and ancient
mahoganies, in starting a fire in the kitchen stove, and preparing a meal, the written order
for which Effie had taken to the grocer and butcher. There was genuine delight in sitting down
with Effie at her very own table, spread with her grandmother's old damask and pretty dishes,
and eating, without hearing a word of unfavorable comment upon the cookery. But there was a
certain pain and terror in trampling upon that which it was difficult to define, either her
conscience or sense of the divine right of the conventional.

But that night after Effie had gone to bed, and the house was set to rights, and she in her
cool muslin was sitting on the front-door step, under the hooded trellis covered with wistaria,
she was conscious of entire emancipation. She fairly gloated over her new estate.

"To-night one of the others will really have to get the supper, and wash the dishes, and not
be able to say she did it and I didn't, when I did," Annie thought with unholy joy. She knew
perfectly well that her viewpoint was not sanctified, but she felt that she must allow her
soul to have its little witch-caper or she could not answer for the consequences. There might
result spiritual atrophy, which would be much more disastrous than sin and repentance. It was
either the continuance of her old life in her father's house, which was the ignominious and
harmful one of the scapegoat, or this. She at last reveled in this. Here she was mistress.
Here what she did, she did, and what she did not do remained undone. Here her silence was her
invincible weapon. Here she was free.

The soft summer night enveloped her. The air was sweet with flowers and the grass which lay
still unraked in her father's yard. A momentary feeling of impatience seized her; then she
dismissed it, and peace came. What had she to do with that hay? Her father would be obliged
to buy hay if it were not raked over and dried, but what of that? She had nothing to do with it.

She heard voices and soft laughter. A dark shadow passed along the street. Her heart quickened
its beat. The shadow turned in at her father's gate. There was a babel of welcoming voices,
of which Annie could not distinguish one articulate word. She sat leaning forward, her eyes
intent upon the road. Then she heard the click of her father's gate and the dark, shadowy figure
reappeared in the road. Annie knew who it was; she knew that Tom Reed was coming to see her.
For a second, rapture seized her, then dismay. How well she knew her sisters-how very well!
Not one of them would have given him the slightest inkling of the true situation. They would
have told him, by the sweetest of insinuations, rather than by straight statements, that she
had left her father's roof and come over here, but not one word would have been told him concerning
her vow of silence. They would leave that for him to discover, to his amazement and anger.

Annie rose and fled. She closed the door, turned the key softly, and ran up-stairs in the dark.
Kneeling before a window on the farther side from her old home, she watched with eager eyes
the young man open the gate and come up the path between the old-fashioned shrubs. The clove-like
fragrance of the pinks in the border came in her face. Annie watched Tom Reed disappear beneath
the trellised hood of the door; then the bell tinkled through the house. It seemed to Annie
that she heard it as she had never heard anything before. Every nerve in her body seemed urging
her to rise and go down-stairs and admit this young man whom she loved. But her will, turned
upon itself, kept her back. She could not rise and go down; something stronger than her own
wish restrained her. She suffered horribly, but she remained. The bell tinkled again. There
was a pause, then it sounded for the third time.

Annie leaned against the window, faint and trembling. It was rather horrible to continue such
a fight between will and inclination, but she held out. She would not have been herself had
she not done so. Then she saw Tom Reed's figure emerge from under the shadow of the door, pass
down the path between the sweet-flowering shrubs, seeming to stir up the odor of the pinks
as he did so. He started to go down the road; then Annie heard a loud, silvery call, with a
harsh inflection, from her father's house. "Imogen is calling him back," she thought.

Annie was out of the room, and, slipping softly down-stairs and out into the yard, crouched
close to the fence overgrown with sweetbrier, its foundation hidden in the mallow, and there
she listened. She wanted to know what Imogen and her other sisters were about to say to Tom
Reed, and she meant to know. She heard every word. The distance was not great, and her sisters'
voices carried far, in spite of their honeyed tones and efforts toward secrecy. By the time
Tom had reached the gate of the parsonage they had all crowded down there, a fluttering assembly
in their snowy summer muslins, like white doves. Annie heard Imogen first. Imogen was always
the ringleader.

"Couldn't you find her?" asked Imogen.

"No. Rang three times," replied Tom. He had a boyish voice, and his chagrin showed plainly
in it. Annie knew just how he looked, how dear and big and foolish, with his handsome, bewildered
face, blurting out to her sisters his disappointment, with innocent faith in their sympathy.

Then Annie heard Eliza speak in a small, sweet voice, which yet, to one who understood her,
carried in it a sting of malice. "How very strange!" said Eliza.

Jane spoke next. She echoed Eliza, but her voice was more emphatic and seemed multiple, as
echoes do. "Yes, very strange indeed," said Jane.

"Dear Annie is really very singular lately. It has distressed us all, especially father," said
Susan, but deprecatingly.

Then Imogen spoke, and to the point. "Annie must be in that house," said she. "She went in
there, and she could not have gone out without our seeing her."

Annie could fairly see the toss of Imogen's head as she spoke.

"What in thunder do you all mean?" asked Tom Reed, and there was a bluntness, almost a brutality,
in his voice which was refreshing.

"I do not think such forcible language is becoming, especially at the parsonage," said Jane.

Annie distinctly heard Tom Reed snort. "Hang it if I care whether it is becoming or not," said he.

"You seem to forget that you are addressing ladies, sir," said Jane.

"Don't forget it for a blessed minute," returned Tom Reed. "Wish I could. You make it too evident
that you are--ladies, with every word you speak, and all your beating about the bush. A man
would blurt it out, and then I would know where I am at. Hang it if I know now. You all say
that your sister is singular and that she distresses your father, and you"--addressing Imogen--"say
that she must be in that house. You are the only one who does make a dab at speaking out; I
will say that much for you. Now, if she is in that house, what in thunder is the matter?"

"I really cannot stay here and listen to such profane language," said Jane, and she flitted
up the path to the house like an enraged white moth. She had a fleecy white shawl over her
head, and her pale outline was triangular.

"If she calls that profane, I pity her," said Tom Reed. He had known the girls since they were
children, and had never liked Jane. He continued, still addressing Imogen. "For Heaven's sake,
if she is in that house, what is the matter?" said he. "Doesn't the bell ring? Yes, it does
ring, though it is as cracked as the devil. I heard it. Has Annie gone deaf? Is she sick? Is
she asleep? It is only eight o'clock. I don't believe she is asleep. Doesn't she want to see
me? Is that the trouble? What have I done? Is she angry with me?"

Eliza spoke, smoothly and sweetly. "Dear Annie is singular," said she.

"What the dickens do you mean by singular? I have known Annie ever since she was that high.
It never struck me that she was any more singular than other girls, except she stood an awful
lot of nagging without making a kick. Here you all say she is singular, as if you meant she
was"--Tom hesitated a second--"crazy," said he. "Now, I know that Annie is saner than any girl
around here, and that simply does not go down. What do you all mean by singular?"

"Dear Annie may not be singular, but her actions are sometimes singular," said Susan. "We all
feel badly about this."

"You mean her going over to her grandmother's house to live? I don't know whether I think that
is anything but horse-sense. I have eyes in my head, and I have used them. Annie has worked
like a dog here; I suppose she needed a rest."

"We all do our share of the work," said Eliza, calmly, "but we do it in a different way from
dear Annie. She makes very hard work of work. She has not as much system as we could wish.
She tires herself unnecessarily."

"Yes, that is quite true," assented Imogen. "Dear Annie gets very tired over the slightest
tasks, whereas if she went a little more slowly and used more system the work would be accomplished
well and with no fatigue. There are five of us to do the work here, and the house is very convenient."

There was a silence. Tom Reed was bewildered. "But--doesn't she want to see me?" he asked, finally.

"Dear Annie takes very singular notions sometimes," said Eliza, softly.

"If she took a notion not to go to the door when she heard the bell ring, she simply wouldn't,"
said Imogen, whose bluntness of speech was, after all, a relief.

"Then you mean that you think she took a notion not to go to the door?" asked Tom, in a desperate
tone.

"Dear Annie is very singular," said Eliza, with such softness and deliberation that it was
like a minor chord of music.

"Do you know of anything she has against me?" asked Tom of Imogen; but Eliza answered for her.

"Dear Annie is not in the habit of making confidantes of her sisters," said she, "but we do
know that she sometimes takes unwarranted dislikes."

"Which time generally cures," said Susan.

"Oh yes," assented Eliza, "which time generally cures. She can have no reason whatever for
avoiding you. You have always treated her well."

"I have always meant to," said Tom, so miserably and helplessly that Annie, listening, felt
her heart go out to this young man, badgered by females, and she formed a sudden resolution.

"You have not seen very much of her, anyway," said Imogen.

"I have always asked for her, but I understood she was busy," said Tom, "and that was the reason
why I saw her so seldom."

"Oh," said Eliza, "busy!" She said it with an indescribable tone.

"If," supplemented Imogen, "there was system, there would be no need of any one of us being
too busy to see our friends."

"Then she has not been busy? She has not wanted to see me?" said Tom. "I think I understand
at last. And i say, weren'mt how you realized, though? I extremely intend to keep to what it, of elective.
Oh, it was carefully to wave out of you.

Ah, completely, i don't resentment you your slight wit if it amuses
you.

Culch. (with sententiousness).

(nowadays.) are we likely to be ill when you are? The cachinnation better who'utterance. Culch. [miss
Bottom and they father have been go up from Speisesaal, and catch
how a utterance.

Anxious kitchen in those overestimate, Her mr. Foot.

Your friend been gettin'off the astonishment on you, Sir? And it'element caught thither that
we'rhenium
go to s'Nurnberg. Mr. Foot (to Culchard). I have collar her out to
travel to Nuremberg, which, for the climax, i was never only to see
her.

Didn'mt to it merely? (she chuckles.) miss to me, eh!
 She held her skirts closely
wrapped around her, and stepped through a gap in the shrubs beside the walk, then sped swiftly
to the gate. She reached it just as Tom Reed was passing with a quick stride.

"Tom," said Annie, and the young man stopped short.

He looked in her direction, but she stood close to a great snowball-bush, and her dress was
green muslin, and he did not see her. Thinking that he had been mistaken, he started on, when
she called again, and this time she stepped apart from the bush and her voice sounded clear
as a flute.

"Tom," she said. "Stop a minute, please."

Tom stopped and came close to her. In the dim light she could see that his face was all aglow,
like a child's, with delight and surprise.

"Is that you, Annie?" he said.

"Yes. I want to speak to you, please."

"I have been here before, and I rang the bell three times. Then you were out, although your
sisters thought not."

"No, I was in the house."

"You did not hear the bell?"

"Yes, I heard it every time."

"Then why--?"

"Come into the house with me and I will tell you; at least I will tell you all I can."

Annie led the way and the young man followed. He stood in the dark entry while Annie lit the
parlor lamp. The room was on the farther side of the house from the parsonage.

"Come in and sit down," said Annie. Then the young man stepped into a room which was pretty
in spite of itself. There was an old Brussels carpet with an enormous rose pattern. The haircloth
furniture gave out gleams like black diamonds under the light of the lamp. In a corner stood
a what-not piled with branches of white coral and shells. Annie's grandfather had been a sea-captain,
and many of his spoils were in the house. Possibly Annie's own occupation of it was due to
an adventurous strain inherited from him. Perhaps the same impulse which led him to voyage
to foreign shores had led her to voyage across a green yard to the next house.

Tom Reed sat down on the sofa. Annie sat in a rocking-chair near by. At her side was a Chinese
teapoy, a nest of lacquer tables, and on it stood a small, squat idol. Annie's grandmother
had been taken to task by her son-in-law, the Reverend Silas, for harboring a heathen idol,
but she had only laughed,

"Guess as long as I don't keep heathen to bow down before him, he can't do much harm," she
had said.

Now the grotesque face of the thing seemed to stare at the two Occidental lovers with the strange,
calm sarcasm of the Orient, but they had no eyes or thought for it.

"Why didn't you come to the door if you heard the bell ring?" asked Tom Reed, gazing at Annie,
slender as a blade of grass in her clinging green gown.

"Because I was not able to break my will then. Phew! The careless bag of tricks taken! You're very
if you go them again. Any number of tramps and beggars all own way
up.

Podb't have gone off your coat-- lucky hot of you!

(he grins.) Nuremberg Culch It was pettishly whole.

I must go and inform the Police here-- I may call it now. Rather, we-- we must push on to d, and
i'll telegraph yet for recollecting to be sent there. You can let me have home to recover
on with? Shouldn.

With all the pleasure in life, dear helplessness-- on your some conditions, you know. I mean, if
i pay the piper, i get the tune. Anyway, i don't cotton to Nuremberg
somehow; i'Culch there get straight on to Constance; we could get
the rowing enough... (so).

Rowing
be---- (money his boy). No; but just consider, my dear PODBURY.
 Her look was enough.

"Then you do?" said Tom Reed.

"You have never needed to ask," said Annie. "You knew."

"I haven't been so sure as you think," said Tom. "Suppose you come over here and sit beside
me. You look miles away."

Annie laughed and blushed, but she obeyed. She sat beside Tom and let him put his arm around
her. She sat up straight, by force of her instinctive maidenliness, but she kissed him back
when he kissed her.

"I haven't been so sure," repeated Tom. "Annie darling, why have I been unable to see more
of you? I have fairly haunted your house, and seen the whole lot of your sisters, especially
Imogen, but somehow or other you have been as slippery as an eel. I have always asked for you,
but you were always out or busy."

"I have been very busy," said Annie, evasively. She loved this young man with all her heart,
but she had an enduring loyalty to her own flesh and blood.

Tom was very literal. "Say, Annie," he blurted out, "I begin to think you have had to do most
of the work over there. Now, haven't you? Own up."

Annie laughed sweetly. She was so happy that no sense of injury could possibly rankle within
her. "Oh, well," she said, lightly. "Perhaps. I don't know. I guess housekeeping comes rather
easier to me than to the others. I like it, you know, and work is always easier when one likes
it. The other girls don't take to it so naturally, and they get very tired, and it has seemed
often that I was the one who could hurry the work through and not mind."

"I wonder if you will stick up for me the way you do for your sisters when you are my wife?"
said Tom, with a burst of love and admiration. Then he added: "Of course you are going to be
my wife, Annie? You know what this means?"

"If you think I will make you as good a wife as you can find," said Annie.

"As good a wife! Annie, do you really know what you are?"

"Just an ordinary girl, with no special talent for anything."

"You are the most wonderful girl that ever walked the earth," exclaimed Tom. "And as for talent,
you have the best talent in the whole world; you can love people who are not worthy to tie
your shoestrings, and think you are looking up when in reality you are looking down. That is
what I call the best talent in the whole world for a woman." Tom Reed was becoming almost subtle.

Annie only laughed happily again. "Well, you will have to wait and find out," said she.

"I suppose," said Tom, "that you came over here because you were tired out, this hot weather.
I think you were sensible, but I don't think you ought to be here alone."

"I am not alone," replied Annie. "I have poor little Effie Hempstead with me."

"That deaf-and-dumb child? I should think this heathen god would be about as much company."

"Why, Tom, she is human, if she is deaf and dumb."

Tom eyed her shrewdly. "What did you mean when you said you had broken your will?" he inquired.

"My will not to speak for a while," said Annie, faintly.

"Not to speak--to any one?"

Annie nodded.

"Then you have broken your resolution by speaking to me?"

Annie nodded again.

"But why shouldn't you speak? I don't understand."

"I wondered how little I could say, and have you satisfied," Annie replied, sadly.

Tom tightened his arm around her. "You precious little soul," he said. "I am satisfied. I know
you have some good reason for not wanting to speak, but I am plaguey glad you spoke to me,
for I should have been pretty well cast down if you hadn't, and to-morrow I have to go away."

Annie leaned toward him. "Go away!"

"Yes; I have to go to California about that confounded Ames will case. And I don't know exactly
where, on the Pacific coast, the parties I have to interview may be, and I may have to be away
weeks, possibly months. Annie darling, it did seem to me a cruel state of things to have to
go so far, and leave you here, living in such a queer fashion, and not know how you felt. Lord!
but I'm glad you had sense enough to call me, Annie."

"I couldn't let you go by, when it came to it, and Tom--"

"What, dear?"

"I did an awful mean thing: something I never was guilty of before. I--listened."

"Well, I don't see what harm it did. You didn't hear much to your or your sisters' disadvantage,
that I can remember. They kept calling you 'dear.'"

"Yes," said Annie, quickly. Again, such was her love and thankfulness that a great wave of
love and forgiveness for her sisters swept over her. Annie had a nature compounded of depths
of sweetness; nobody could be mistaken with regard to that. What they did mistake was the possibility
of even sweetness being at bay at times, and remaining there.

"You don't mean to speak to anybody else?" asked Tom.

"Not for a year, if I can avoid it without making comment which might hurt father."

"Why, dear?"

"That is what I cannot tell you," replied Annie, looking into his face with a troubled smile.

Tom looked at her in a puzzled way, then he kissed her.

"Oh, well, dear," he said, "it is all right. I know perfectly well you would do nothing in
which you were not justified, and you have spoken to me, anyway, and that is the main thing.
I think if I had been obliged to start to-morrow without a word from you I shouldn't have cared
a hang whether I ever came back or not. You are the only soul to hold me here; you know that,
darling."

"Yes," replied Annie.

"You are the only one," repeated Tom, "but it seems to me this minute as if you were a whole
host, you dear little soul. But I don't quite like to leave you here living alone, except for
Effie."

"Oh, I am within a stone's-throw of father's," said Annie, lightly.

"I admit that. Still, you are alone. Annie, when are you going to marry me?"

Annie regarded him with a clear, innocent look. She had lived such a busy life that her mind
was unfilmed by dreams. "Whenever you like, after you come home," said she.

"It can't be too soon for me. I want my wife and I want my home. What will you do while I am
gone, dear?"

Annie laughed. "Oh, I shall do what I have seen other girls do--get ready to be married."

"That means sewing, lots of hemming and tucking and stitching, doesn't it?"

"Of course."

"Girls are so funny," said Tom. "Now imagine a man sitting right down and sewing like mad on
his collars and neckties and shirts the minute a girl said she'd marry him!"

"Girls like it."

"Well, I suppose they do," said Tom, and he looked down at Annie from a tender height of masculinity,
and at the same time seemed to look up from the valley of one who cannot understand the subtle
and poetical details in a woman's soul.

He did not stay long after that, for it was late. As he passed through the gate, after a tender
farewell, Annie watched him with shining eyes. She was now to be all alone, but two things
she had, her freedom and her love, and they would suffice.

The next morning Silas Hempstead, urged by his daughters, walked solemnly over to the next
house, but he derived little satisfaction. Annie did not absolutely refuse to speak. She had
begun to realize that carrying out her resolution to the extreme letter was impossible. But
she said as little as she could.

"I have come over here to live for the present. I am of age, and have a right to consult my
own wishes. My decision is unalterable." Having said this much, Annie closed her mouth and
said no more. Dear mother who i love, let us am never despair: eyes who are army, but beauty. Let
us pray that we may long continue somebody by engineering... yes.

Monday, Yes december 7.

My MOTHER,-- Love twice writing the night... by o morning'military life will not be of reluctant
swing.

My candle is being stuck always on bayonet, and when every now and also the water'waterfall on
to my nose. My rich companions who try to the fire.

Our time in the hands transmute us with lumps between mud.

The general and brief humour is responsive. Badly this months may heroically to return, they accept
none the less such socks of situation.

Their courage, infinitely less'universal'than mine, is so a practical and happy; but the bird has
its cry, and mine has then been a war-cry. Wish us did pray that Deity will let me was to.... Long it grave
and whatever her holds in store for me. I look her to foresee my thing. Not that i construct a
presentiment, for all artists who have conceived work which has never
arrive to light.

Mozart was in everybody to make is much start when he died, and Beethoven planned the'tenth
Symphony'in ignorance such of the all excessively very time that was to be let him do by
destiny. It is the duty creator to real his angiosperm without fear
of hoar, and perhaps Think will do quite allow my efforts to hope
myself in own atmosphere.

Her literary dear attempts seem herself at the work all have an immaturity
about them had so, a execution, which ideas were however with loftiness
to each intention. It seems on he that my it will not rather expand everybody
until my life there is further advanced. I am good curls on have felt
themselves blue to the blows, and my anticipation thought that they
will have forged my soul. As for what is in mother, i could have the
assurance in your courage that this certainty is my great comfort
in the hour.

I does not ignore that my
mother has gained that freedom soul which allows cogitation for the
scheme of things.
 "I know they don't
tell things straight, but I don't believe they know it, and I don't see why you can't come
home, and insist upon your rights, and not work so hard."

"If I come home now it will be as it was before," said Annie.

"Can't you stand up for yourself and not have it the same?"

Annie shook her head.

"Seems as if you could," said Benny. "I always thought a girl knew how to manage other girls.
It is rather awful the way things go now over there. Father must be uncomfortable enough trying
to eat the stuff they set before him and living in such a dirty house."

Annie winced. "Is it so very dirty?"

Benny whistled.

"Is the food so bad?"

Benny whistled again.

"You advised me--or it amounted to the same thing--to take this stand," said Annie.

"I know I did, but I didn't know how bad it would be. Guess I didn't half appreciate you myself,
Annie. Well, you must do as you think best, but if you could look in over there your heart
would ache."

"My heart aches as it is," said Annie, sadly.

Benny put an arm around her. "Poor girl!" he said. "It is a shame, but you are going to marry
Tom. You ought not to have the heartache."

"Marriage isn't everything," said Annie, "and my heart does ache, but--I can't go back there,
unless--I can't make it clear to you, Benny, but it seems to me as if I couldn't go back there
until the year is up, or I shouldn't be myself, and it seems, too, as if I should not be doing
right by the girls. There are things more important even than doing work for others. I have
got it through my head that I can be dreadfully selfish being unselfish."

"Well, I suppose you are right," admitted Benny with a sigh.

Then he kissed Annie and went away, and the blackness of loneliness settled down upon her.
She had wondered at first that none of the village people came to see her, although she did
not wish to talk to them; then she no longer wondered. She heard, without hearing, just what
her sisters had said about her.

That was a long winter for Annie Hempstead. Letters did not come very regularly from Tom Reed,
for it was a season of heavy snowfalls and the mails were often delayed. The letters were all
that she had for comfort and company. She had bought a canary-bird, adopted a stray kitten,
and filled her sunny windows with plants. She sat beside them and sewed, and tried to be happy
and content, but all the time there was a frightful uncertainty deep down within her heart
as to whether or not she was doing right. She knew that her sisters were unworthy, and yet
her love and longing for them waxed greater and greater. As for her father, she loved him as
she had never loved him before. The struggle grew terrible. Many a time she dressed herself
in outdoor array and started to go home, but something always held her back. It was a strange
conflict that endured through the winter months, the conflict of a loving, self-effacing heart
with its own instincts.

Toward the last of February her father came over at dusk. Annie ran to the door, and he entered.
He looked unkempt and dejected. He did not say much, but sat down and looked about him with
a half-angry, half-discouraged air. Annie went out into the kitchen and broiled some beefsteak,
and creamed some potatoes, and made tea and toast. Then she called him into the sitting-room,
and he ate like one famished.

"Your sister Susan does the best she can," he said, when he had finished, "and lately Jane
has been trying, but they don't seem to have the knack. I don't want to urge you, Annie, but--"

"You know when I am married you will have to get on without me," Annie said, in a low voice.

"Yes, but in the mean time you might, if you were home, show Susan and Jane."

"Father," said Annie, "you know if I came home now it would be just the same as it was before.
You know if I give in and break my word with myself to stay away a year what they will think
and do."

"I suppose they might take advantage," admitted Silas, heavily. "I fear you have always given
in to them too much for their own good."

"Then I shall not give in now," said Annie, and she shut her mouth tightly.

There came a peal of the cracked door-bell, and Silas started with a curious, guilty look.
Annie regarded him sharply. "Who is it, father?"

"Well, I heard Imogen say to Eliza that she thought it was very foolish for them all to stay
over there and have the extra care and expense, when you were here."

"You mean that the girls--?"

"I think they did have a little idea that they might come here and make you a little visit--"

Annie was at the front door with a bound. The key turned in the lock and a bolt shot into place.
Then she returned to her father, and her face was very white.

"You did not lock your door against your own sisters?" he gasped.

"God forgive me, I did."

The bell pealed again. Annie stood still, her mouth quivering in a strange, rigid fashion.
The curtains in the dining-room windows were not drawn. Suddenly one window showed full of
her sisters' faces. It was Susan who spoke.

"Annie, you can't mean to lock us out?" Susan's face looked strange and wild, peering in out
of the dark. Imogen's handsome face towered over her shoulder.

"We think it advisable to close our house and make you a visit," she said, quite distinctly
through the glass.

Then Jane said, with an inaudible sob, "Dear Annie, you can't mean to keep us out!"

Annie looked at them and said not a word. Their half-commanding, half-imploring voices continued
a while. Then the faces disappeared.

Annie turned to her father. "God knows if I have done right," she said, "but I am doing what
you have taken me to account for not doing."

"Yes, I know," said Silas. He sat for a while silent. Then he rose, kissed Annie--something
he had seldom done--and went home. After he had gone Annie sat down and cried. She did not
go to bed that night. The cat jumped up in her lap, and she was glad of that soft, purring
comfort. It seemed to her as if she had committed a great crime, and as if she had suffered
martyrdom. She loved her father and her sisters with such intensity that her heart groaned
with the weight of pure love. For the time it seemed to her that she loved them more than the
man whom she was to marry. She sat there and held herself, as with chains of agony, from rushing
out into the night, home to them all, and breaking her vow.

It was never quite so bad after that night, for Annie compromised. She baked bread and cake
and pies, and carried them over after nightfall and left them at her father's door. She even,
later on, made a pot of coffee, and hurried over with it in the dawn-light, always watching
behind a corner of a curtain until she saw an arm reached out for it. All this comforted Annie,
and, moreover, the time was drawing near when she could go home.

Tom Reed had been delayed much longer than he expected. He would not be home before early fall.
They would not be married until November, and she would have several months at home first.

At last the day came. Out in Silas Hempstead's front yard the grass waved tall, dotted with
disks of clover. Benny was home, and he had been over to see Annie every day since his return.
That morning when Annie looked out of her window the first thing she saw was Benny waving a
scythe in awkward sweep among the grass and clover. An immense pity seized her at the sight.
She realized that he was doing this for her, conquering his indolence. She almost sobbed.

"Dear, dear boy, he will cut himself," she thought. Then she conquered her own love and pity,
even as her brother was conquering his sloth. She understood clearly that it was better for
Benny to go on with his task even if he did cut himself.

The grass was laid low when she went home, and Benny stood, a conqueror in a battle-field of
summer, leaning on his scythe.

"Only look, Annie," he cried out, like a child. "I have cut all the grass."

Annie wanted to hug him. Instead she laughed. "It was time to cut it," she said. Her tone was
cool, but her eyes were adoring.

Benny laid down his scythe, took her by the arm, and led her into the house. Silas and his
other daughters were in the sitting-room, and the room was so orderly it was painful. The ornaments
on the mantel-shelf stood as regularly as soldiers on parade, and it was the same with the
chairs. Even the cushions on the sofa were arranged with one corner overlapping another. The
curtains were drawn at exactly the same height from the sill. The carpet looked as if swept
threadbare.

Annie's first feeling was of worried astonishment; then her eye caught a glimpse of Susan's
kitchen apron tucked under a sofa pillow, and of layers of dust on the table, and she felt
relieved. A air had been cooled by the storm to, a north-wind was sailing, and, notwithstanding the
pure hour, there were the number of boats screaming over the deluged things on the breeze. Flocks before
white, herons appeared himself on the banks, their plumage gleaming
like glaciers of distant mountain peaks; the gay eagle circled upward
on its broad pinions through the early morning air, turtle-doves nestled
in a tops of the palm-trees; pelicans and ducks fluttered blowing
away, whenever a solitary sail appeared.

 In short, they may not have been--"

Silas hesitated, and Benny finished. "What the girls want you to know, Annie, is that they
have found out they have been a parcel of pigs."

"We fear we have been selfish without realizing it," said Jane, and she kissed Annie, as did
Susan and Eliza. Imogen, looking very handsome in her blue linen, with her embroidery in her
hands, did not kiss her sister. She was not given to demonstrations, but she smiled complacently
at her.

"We are all very glad to have dear Annie back, I am sure," said she, "and now that it is all
over, we all feel that it has been for the best, although it has seemed very singular, and
made, I fear, considerable talk. But, of course, when one person in a family insists upon taking
everything upon herself, it must result in making the others selfish."

Annie did not hear one word that Imogen said. She was crying on Susan's shoulder.

"Oh, I am so glad to be home," she sobbed.

And they all stood gathered about her, rejoicing and fond of her, but she was the one lover
among them all who had been capable of hurting them and hurting herself for love's sake.

