§ 26. I know that the World honours with just Applause some, tho' few Masters, intelligent
in both Stiles, to whom I direct the Students in order to their singing well; and if I confine
the Masters to so small a Number, I do beg Pardon of those who should be comprehended therein;
hoping easily to obtain it, because an involuntary Error does not offend, and an eminent Person
knows no other Envy but virtuous Emulation. As for the Ignorant, who for the most part are
not used to indulge any, but rather despise and hate every thing they do not comprehend, they
will be the Persons from whom I am to expect no Quarter.

§ 27. To my Misfortune, I asked one of this sort, from whom he had learned the Counterpoint?
he answered immediately from the Instrument, (i.e., the Harpsichord)--Very well. I asked farther,
in what Tone have you composed the Introduction of your Opera?----What Tone! what Tone! (breaking
in upon me abruptly) with what musty Questions are you going to disturb my Brains? One may
easily perceive from what School you come. The Moderns, if you do not know it, acknowledge
no other Tone but one[77]; they laugh, with Reason, at the silly Opinion of those who imagine
there are two, as well as at those who maintain, that their being divided into Authentick and
Plagal, they become Eight, (and more if there were need) and prudently leave it to everybody's
Pleasure to compose as they like best. The World in your Time was asleep, and let it not displease
you, if our merry and brisk Manner has awakened it with a Gayety so pleasing to the Heart,
that it incites one to dance. I would have you likewise be lively before you die, and, abandoning
your uncouth Ideas, make it appear, that old Age can be pleased with the Productions of Youth;
otherwise you will find, that you will be condemned by your own Words, that Ignorance hates
all that is excellent. The polite Arts have advanced continually in Refinement, and if the
rest were to give me the Lie, Musick would defend me Sword in Hand; for she cannot arrive at
a higher Pitch. Awake therefore, and, if you are not quite out of your Senses, hearken to me;
and you will acknowledge that I speak candidly to you; and for a Proof be it known to you----

§ 28. That our delicious Stile has been invented to hide with the fine Name of Modern the too
difficult Rules of the Counterpoint, cannot be denied.

§ 29. That there is an inviolable Rule amongst us, to banish for ever the Pathetick, is very
true; because we will have no Melancholy.

§ 30. But, that we should be told by the old Bashaws, that we strive who can produce most extravagant
Absurdities never heard before, and that we brag to be the Inventors of them ourselves, are
the malign Reflections of those who see us exalted. Let Envy burst. You see, that the general
Esteem which we have acquired, gives it for us; and if a Musician is not of our Tribe, he will
find no Patron or Admirer. But since we are now speaking in Confidence and with Sincerity,
who can sing or compose well, without our Approbation? Let them have ever so much Merit (you
know it) we do not want Means to ruin him; even a few Syllables will suffice: It is only saying,
He is an Ancient.

§ 31. Tell me, I beseech you, who, without us, could have brought Musick to the Height of Happiness,
with no greater Difficulty than taking from the Airs that tiresome Emulation of the first and
second Violin, and of the Tenor? Is there any that ever durst usurp the Glory of it? We, we
are those, who by our Ingenuity have raised her to this Degree of Sublimity, in taking also
from her that noisy murmuring of the fundamental Basses, in such Manner,----(mark me well,
and learn) that if in an Orchestre there were an hundred Violins, we are capable of composing
in such a Manner, that all and every one shall play the very Air which the Voice sings. What
say you to that? Can you have the Face to find Fault with us?

§ 32. Our most lovely Method, that obliges none of us to the painful Study of the Rules; which
does not disquiet the Mind with the Anxiety of Speculation, nor delude us with the Study of
reducing them into Practice; that does not prejudice the Health; that enchants the Ear à la
Mode; that finds those who love it, who prize it, and who pay for it the Weight in Gold; and
dare you to criticise upon it?

§ 33. What shall we say of the obscure and tedious Compositions of those whom you celebrate
as the Top of the Universe, tho' your Opinion goes for nothing? Don't you perceive that those
old-fashioned Crabbednesses are disgustful? We should be great Fools to grow pale, and become
paralytick in studying and finding out in the Scores, the Harmony, the Fugues, their Reverses,
the Double Counterpoint, the Multiplication of Subjects, to contract them closer, to make Canons,
and such other dry Stuff, that are no more in Mode, and (what is worse) are of little Esteem,
and less Profit. What say you now to this, Master Critick? Have you comprehended me?----Yes,
Sir. Well, what Answer do you make me?----None.

§ 34. Really, I am astonished, O beloved Singers, at the profound Lethargy in which you remain,
and which is so much to your Disadvantage. 'Tis You that ought to awaken, for now is the Time,
and tell the Composers of this Stamp, that your Desire is to Sing, and not to Dance.

CHAP. VIII.

Of Cadences.[78]

The Cadences, that terminate the Airs, are of two Sorts. The Composers call the one Superior,
and the other Inferior. To make myself better understood by a Scholar, I mean, if a Cadence
were in C natural, the Notes of the first would be La, Sol, Fa; and those of the second Fa,
Mi, Fa. In Airs for a single Voice, or in Recitatives, a Singer may chuse which of these Closes
or Cadences pleases him best; but if in Concert with other Voices, or accompanied with Instruments,
he must not change the Superior for the Inferior, nor this with the other.[79]

§ 2. It would be superfluous to speak of the broken Cadences, they being become familiar even
to those who are not Professors of Musick, and which serve at most but in Recitatives.[80]

§ 3. As for those Cadences that fall a fifth, they were never composed in the old Stile for
a Soprano, in an Air for a single Voice, or with Instruments, unless the Imitation of some
Words had obliged the Composer thereto. Yet these, having no other Merit, but of being the
easiest of all, as well for the Composer as for the Singer, are at present the most prevailing.[81]

§ 4. In the Chapter on Airs, I have exhorted the Student to avoid that Torrent of Passages
and Divisions, so much in the Mode, and did engage myself also, to give my weak Sentiments
on the Cadences that are now current; and I am now ready: But, however, with the usual Protestation
of submitting them, with all my other Opinions, to the Tribunal of the Judicious, and those
of Taste, from whence there is no Appeal; that they, as sovereign Judges of the Profession,
may condemn the Abuses of the modern Cadences, or the Errors of my Opinion.

§ 5. Every Air has (at least) three Cadences, that are all three final. Generally speaking,
the Study of the Singers of the present Times consists in terminating the Cadence of the first
Part with an overflowing of Passages and Divisions at Pleasure, and the Orchestre waits; in
that of the second[82] the Dose is encreased, and the Orchestre grows tired; but on the last
Cadence, the Throat is set a going, like a Weather-cock in a Whirlwind, and the Orchestre yawns.
But why must the World be thus continually deafened with so many Divisions? I must (with your
leave, Gentlemen Moderns) say in Favour of the Profession, that good Taste does not consist
in a continual Velocity of the Voice, which goes thus rambling on, without a Guide, and without
Foundation; but rather, in the Cantabile, in the putting forth the Voice agreeably, in Appoggiatura's,
in Art, and in the true Notion of Graces, going from one Note to another with singular and
unexpected Surprizes, and stealing the Time exactly on the true Motion of the Bass. These are
the principal and indispensible Qualities which are most essential to the singing well, and
which no musical Ear can find in your capricious Cadences. I must still add, that very anciently
the Stile of the Singers was insupportable, (as I have been informed by the Master who taught
me to Sol-fa) by reason of the Number of Passages and Divisions in their Cadences, that never
were at an end, as they are now; and that they were always the same, just as they are now.
They became at last so odious, that, as a Nusance to the Sense of Hearing, they were banished
without so much as attempting their Correction. Thus will it also happen to These, at the first
Example given by a Singer whose Credit is established, and who will not be seduced by a vain
popular Applause. This Reformation the succeeding Professors of Eminence prescribed to themselves
as a Law, which perhaps would not have been abolished, were they in a Condition to be heard;
but the Opulency of some, Loss of the Voice, Age and Death of others, has deprived the Living
from hearing what was truly worthy our Admiration in Singing. Now the Singers laugh at the
Reformers, and their Reformation of the Passages in the Cadences; and on the contrary, having
recalled them from their Banishment, and brought them on the Stage, with some little Caricatura
to boot, they impose them on the Ignorant for rare Inventions, and gain themselves immense
Sums; it giving them no Concern that they have been abhorr'd and detested for fifty or sixty
Years, or for an hundred Ages. But who can blame them? However, if Reason should make this
Demand of them, with what unjust Pretence can you usurp the Name of Moderns, if you sing in
a most Ancient Stile? Perhaps, you think that these overflowings of your Throat are what procure
you Riches and Praises? Undeceive yourselves, and thank the great Number of Theatres, the Scarcity
of excellent Performers, and the Stupidity of your Auditors. What could they answer? I know
not. But let us call them to a stricter Account.

§ 6. Gentlemen Moderns, can you possibly deny, but that you laugh among yourselves, when you
have Recourse to your long-strung Passages in the Cadences, to go a begging for Applause from
the blind Ignorant? You call this Trick by the Name of an Alms, begging for Charity as it were
for those E Viva's, which, you very well know, you do not deserve from Justice. And in return
you laugh at your Admirers, tho' they have not Hands, Feet, nor Voice enough to applaud you.
Is this Justice? Is this Gratitude?----Oh! if they ever should find you out! My beloved Singers,
tho' the Abuses of your Cadences are of use to you, they are much more prejudicial to the Profession,
and are the greatest Faults you can commit; because at the same time you know yourselves to
be in the Wrong. For your own Sakes undeceive the World, and employ the rare Talent you are
endowed with on Things that are worthy of you. In the mean while I will return with more Courage
to my Opinions.

§ 7. I should be very desirous to[83] know, on what Foundation certain Moderns of Reputation,
and great Name, do on the superior Cadences always make the Shake on the third in Alt to the
final Note; since the Shake (which ought to be resolved) cannot be so in this Case, by reason
of that very third, which being the sixth of the Bass hinders it, and the Cadence remains without
a Resolution. If they should go so far as to imagine, that the best Rules depended on the Mode,
I should notwithstanding think, they might sometimes appeal to the Ear, to know if That was
satisfied with a Shake beaten with the seventh and the sixth on a Bass which makes the Cadence;
and I am sure it would answer. No. From the Rules of the Ancients we learn, that the Shake
is to be prepared on the sixth of the Bass, that after it the fifth may be heard, for that
is its proper Place.

§ 8. Some others of the same Rank make their Cadences in the Manner of the Basses, which is,
in falling a fifth, with a Passage of Swift Notes descending gradually, supposing that by this
Means they cover the Octaves, which, tho' disguised, will still appear.

§ 9. I hold it also for certain, that no Professor of the first Rank, in any Cadence whatsoever,
can be allowed to make Shakes, or Divisions, on the last Syllables but one of these Words,--Confonderò--Amerò,
&c. for they are Ornaments that do not suit on those Syllables which are short, but do well
on the Antecedent.[84]

§ 10. Very many of the second Class end the inferior Cadences in the French Manner without
a Shake[85], either for want of Ability to make one, or from its being easy to copy them, or
from their Desire of finding out something that may in Appearance support the name of Modern.
But in Fact they are mistaken; for the French do not leave out the Shake on the inferior Cadences,
except in the Pathetick Airs; and our Italians, who are used to over-do the Mode, exclude it
every where, tho' in the Allegro the Shake is absolutely necessary. I know, that a good Singer
may with Reason abstain from the Shake in the Cantabile; however, it should be rarely; for
if one of those Cadences be tolerable without that pleasing Grace, it is absolutely impossible
not to be tired at length, with a Number one after another that die suddenly.

§ 11. I find that all the Moderns (let them be Friends or Foes to the Shake) in the inferior
Cadences beforementioned go with an Appoggiatura to the final Note, on the penultimate Syllable
of a Word; and this likewise is a Defect, it appearing to me, that on such Occasions the Appoggiatura
is not pleasing but on the last Syllable, after the Manner of the Ancients, or of those who
know how to sing.[86]

§12. If, in the inferior Cadences, the best Singers of these Days think they are not in the
wrong in making you hear the final Note before the Bass[87], they deceive themselves grossly;
for it is a very great Error, hurts the Ear, and is against the Rules; and becomes doubly so,
going (as they do) to the same Note with an Appoggiatura, the which either ascending or descending,
if not after the Bass[88], is always very bad.

§ 13. And is it not worst of all, to torment the Hearers with a thousand Cadences all in the
same Manner? From whence proceeds this Sterility, since every Professor knows, that the surest
way of gaining Esteem in Singing is a Variety in the Repetition?

§ 14. If among all the Cadences in the Airs, the last allows a moderate Liberty to the Singer,
to distinguish the end of them, the Abuse of it is insufferable. But it grows abomable, when
the Singer persists with his tiresome Warbling, nauseating the Judicious, who suffer the more,
because they know that the Composers leave generally in every final Cadence some Note, sufficient
to make a discreet Embellishment; without seeking for it out of Time, without Taste, without
Art, and without Judgment.[89]

§ 15. I am still more surprised when I reflect, that the modern Stile, after having exposed
all the Cadences of the theatrical Airs to the Martyrdom of a perpetual Motion, will likewise
have the Cruelty to condemn to the same Punishment not Those in the Cantata's only, but also
the Cadences of their Recitatives. Do these Singers pretend, by their not distinguishing the
Chamber-Musick from the immoderate Gargling of the Stage, to expect the vulgar E Viva's in
the Cabinet of Princes?

§ 16. Let a sensible Student avoid this Example, and with this Example the Abuses, the Defects,
and every other Thing that is mean and common, as well in the Cadences as elsewhere.

§ 17. If, the inventing particular Cadences without injuring the Time, has been one of the
worthy Employments of the Ancients (so call'd) let a Student revive the Use of it; endeavouring
to imitate them in their Skill of somewhat anticipating the Time; and remember, that Those,
who understand the Art of Gracing, do not wait to admire the Beauty of it in a Silence of the Bass.

§ 18. Many and many other Errors are heard in the Cadences that were Antique, and which are
now become Modern; they were ridiculous then, and are so now; therefore considering, that to
change the Stile is not always to improve it, I may fairly conclude, that what is bad is to
be corrected by Study, and not by the Mode.

§ 19. Now let us for a while leave at Rest the Opinions of the aforesaid Ancients, and the
supposed Moderns, to take notice what Improvement the Scholar has made, since he is desirous
of being heard. Well then, let him attend, before we part with him, to Instructions of more
Weight, that he may at least deserve the Name of a good Singer, though he may not arrive at
that of an eminent one.

CHAP. IX.

Observations for a Singer.[90]

Behold the Singer now appearing in Publick, from the Effects of his Application to the Study
of the foregoing Lessons. But to what Purpose does he appear? Whoever, in the great Theatre
of the World, does not distinguish himself, makes but a very insignificant Figure.

§ 2. From the cold Indifference perceived in many Singers, one would believe that the Science
of Musick implored their Favour, to be received by them as their most humble Servant.

§ 3. If too many did not persuade themselves that they had studied sufficiently, there would
not be such a Scarcity of the Best, nor such a Swarm of the Worst. These, because they can
sing by Heart three or four Kyrie's[91], think they are arrived at the Non plus ultra; but
if you give them a Cantata to sing, that is even easy, and fairly written, they, instead of
complying as they ought, will tell you with an impudent Face, that Persons of their Degree
are not obliged to sing in the vulgar Tongue at Sight. And who can forbear laughing? For a
Musician knowing that the Words, let them be either Latin or Italian, do not change the Form
of the Notes, must immediately conclude, that this pert Answer of the great Man proceeds from
his not being able to sing at Sight, or from his not knowing how to read; and he judges right.

§ 4. There are an infinite Number[92] of others, who wish and sigh for the Moment that eases
them from the painful Fatigue of their first Studies, hoping to have a Chance to make one in
the Crowd of the second Rate; and stumbling by good Luck on something that gives them Bread,
they immediately make a Legg to Musick and its Study, not caring whether the World knows they
are, or are not among the Living. These do not consider that Mediocrity in a Singer means Ignorance.

§ 5. There are also several who study nothing but the Defects, and are endow'd with a marvelous
Aptness to learn them all, having so happy a Memory as never to forget them. Their Genius is
so inclined to the Bad, that if by Gift of Nature they had the best of Voices, they would be
discontented if they could not find some Means to make it the worst.

§ 6. One of a better Spirit will endeavour to keep better Company. He will be sensible of the
Necessity of farther Discoveries, of farther Instructions, and even of another Master, of whom,
besides the Art of Singing, he would be glad to learn how to behave himself with good Breeding.
This, added to the Merit acquired by his Singing, may give him Hopes of the Favour of Princes,
and of an universal Esteem.

§ 7. If he aims at the Character of a young Man of Wit and Judgment, let him not be vulgar
or too bold.

§ 8. Let him shun low and disreputable Company, but, above all, such as abandon themselves
to scandalous Liberties.

§ 9. That Professor ought not to be frequented, though excellent in this Art, whose behaviour
is vulgar and discreditable, and who cares not, provided he makes his Fortune, whether it be
at the Expence of his Reputation.

§ 10. The best School is the Nobility, from whom every thing that is genteel is to be learned;
but when a Musician finds that his Company is not proper, let him retire without repining,
and his Modesty will be to his Commendation.

§ 11. If he should not meet with a Gratification from the Great, let him never complain; for
it is better to get but little, than to lose a great deal, and that is not seldom the Case.
The best he can do, is to be assiduous in serving them, that at least he may hope for the Pleasure
of seeing them for once grateful, or be convinced for ever of their being ungrateful.

§ 12. My long and repeated Travels have given me an Opportunity of being acquainted with most
of the Courts of Europe, and Examples, more than my Words, should persuade every able Singer
to see them also; but without yielding up his Liberty to their Allurements: For Chains, though
of Gold, are still Chains; and they are not all of that precious Metal: Besides, the several
Inconveniencies of Disgrace, Mortifications, Uncertainty; and, above all, the Hindrance of Study.

§ 13.[93] The golden Age of Musick would be already at an End, if the Swans did not make their
Nests on some Theatres in Italy, or on the royal Banks of the Thames. O dear London!----On
the other Streams, they sing no more as they used to do their sweet Notes at their expiring;
but rather sadly lament the Expiration of those august and adorable Princes, by whom they were
tenderly belov'd and esteemed. This is the usual Vicissitude of Things in this World; and we
daily see, that whatever is sublunary must of Necessity decline. Let us leave the Tears to
the Heart, and return to the Singer.

§ 14. A discreet Person will never use such affected Expressions as, I cannot sing To-day;--I've
got a deadly Cold; and, in making his Excuse, falls a Coughing. I can truly say, that I have
never in my Life heard a Singer own the Truth, and say, I'm very well to-day: They reserve
the unseasonable Confession to the next Day, when they make no Difficulty to say, In all my
Days my Voice was never in better Order than it was Yesterday. I own, on certain Conjunctures,
the Pretext is not only suitable, but even necessary; for, to speak the Truth, the indiscreet
Parsimony of some, who would hear Musick for Thanks only, goes so far, that they think a Master
is immediately obliged to obey them gratis, and that the Refusal is an Offence that deserves
Resentment and Revenge. But if it is a Law human and divine, that every Body should live by
their honest Labour, what barbarous Custom obliges a Musician to serve without a Recompence?
A cursed Over-bearing; O sordid Avarice!

§ 15. A Singer, that knows the World, distinguishes between the different Manners of Commanding;
he knows how to refuse without disobliging, and how to obey with a good Grace; not being ignorant,
that one, who has his Interest most at Heart, sometimes finds his Account in serving without
a Gratification.

§ 16. One who sings with a Desire of gaining Honour and Credit, cannot sing ill, and in time
will sing better; and one, who thinks on nothing but Gain, is in the ready way to remain ignorant.

§ 17. Who would ever think (if Experience did not shew it) that a Virtue of the highest Estimation
should prejudice a Singer? And yet, whilst Presumption and Arrogance triumph (I'm shock'd to
think on't) amiable Humility, the more the Singer has of it, the more it depresses him.

§ 18. At first Sight, Arrogance has the Appearance of Ability; but, upon a nearer View, I can
discover Ignorance in Masquerade.

§ 19. This Arrogance serves them sometimes, as a politick Artifice to hide their own Failings:
For Example, certain Singers would not be unconcern'd, under the Shame of not being able to
sing a few Barrs at Sight, if with Shrugs, scornful Glances, and malicious shaking of their
Heads, they did not give the Auditors to understand that those gross Errors are owing to him
that accompanies, or to the Orchestre.

§ 20. To humble such Arrogance, may it never meet with that Incense which it expects.

§ 21. Who could sing better than the Arogant, if they were not ashamed to study?

§ 22. It is a Folly in a Singer to grow vain at the first Applauses, without reflecting whether
they are given by Chance, or out of Flattery; and if he thinks he deserves them, there is an
End of him.

§ 23. He should regulate his Voice according to the Place where he sings; for it would be the
greatest Absurdity, not to make a Difference between a small Cabinet and a vast Theatre.[94]

§ 24. He is still more to be blam'd, who, when singing in two, three, or four Parts, does so
raise his Voice as to drown his Companions; for if it is not Ignorance, it is something worse.

§ 25. All Compositions for more than one Voice ought to be sung strictly as they are written;
nor do they require any other Art but a noble Simplicity. I remember to have heard once a famous
Duetto torn into Atoms by two renown'd Singers, in Emulation; the one proposing, and the other
by Turns answering, that at last it[95] ended in a Contest, who could produce the most Extravagancies.

§ 26. The Correction of Friends, that have Knowledge, instructs very much; but still greater
Advantage may be gain'd from the ill-natur'd Criticks; for, the more intent they are to discover
Defects, the greater Benefit may be receiv'd from them without any Obligation.

§ 27. It is certain, that the Errors corrected by our Enemies are better cur'd, than those
corrected by ourselves; for we are apt to indulge our Faults, nor can we so easily perceive them.

§ 28. He that sings with Applause in one Place only, let him not have too good an Opinion of
himself; let him often change Climates, and then he will judge better of his Talent.

§ 29. To please universally, Reason will tell you, that you must always sing well; but if Reason
does not inform you, Interest will persuade you to conform to the Taste of that Nation (provided
it be not too deprav'd) which pays you.

§ 30. If he that sings well provokes Envy, by singing better he will get the Victory over it.

§ 31. I do not know if a perfect Singer can at the same time be a perfect Actor; for the Mind
being at once divided by two different Operations, he will probably incline more to one than
the other; It being, however, much more difficult to sing well than to act well, the Merit
of the first is beyond the second. What a Felicity would it be, to possess both in a perfect
Degree![96]

§ 32. Having said, a Singer should not copy, I repeat it now with this Reason; that to copy
is the part of a Scholar, that of a Master is to invent.

§ 33. Let it be remembered by the Singer, that copying comes from Laziness, and that none copy
ill but out of Ignorance.

§ 34. Where Knowledge with Study makes one a good Singer, Ignorance with one single Copy makes
a thousand bad ones; however, among these there are none that will acknowledge her for a Teacher.

§ 35. If many of the female Singers (for whom I have due Respect) would be pleased to consider,
that by copying a good one, they are become very bad ones, they would not appear so ridiculous
on the Stage for their Affectation in presuming to sing the Airs of the Person they copy, with
the same Graces. In this great Error, (if it does not proceed from their Masters) they seem
to be governed by Instinct, like the inferior Creatures, rather than by Reason; for That would
shew them, that we may arrive at Applause by different ways, and past Examples, as well as
one at this present make us sensible, that two Women would not be equally eminent if the one
copy'd the other.[97]

§ 36. If the Complaisance, which is due to the fair Sex, does not excuse the Abuse of copying
when it proves prejudicial to the Profession, what ought one then to say of those Men, who,
instead of inventing, not only copy others of their own Sex, but also Women. Foolish and shameful!----Supposing
an Impossibility, viz. that a Singer has arrived at copying in such a Manner as not to be distinguished
from the Original, should he attribute to himself a Merit which does not belong to him, and
dress himself out in the Habits of another without being afraid of being stripp'd of them?

§ 37. He, that rightly knows how to copy in Musick, takes nothing but the Design; because that
Ornament, which we admire when natural, immediately loses its Beauty when artificial.

§38. The most admired Graces of a Professor ought only to be imitated, and not copied; on Condition
also, that it does not bear not even so much as a Shadow of Resemblance of the Original; otherwise,
instead of a beautiful Imitation, it will become a despicable Copy.

§ 39. I cannot decide, which of the two deserves most to be despised, one who cannot imitate
a good Singer without Caricatura's, or He that cannot imitate any well but bad ones.

§ 40. If many Singers knew, that a bad Imitation is a contagious Evil, to which one who studies
is not liable, the World would not be reduc'd to the Misfortune of seeing in a Carnaval but
one Theatre provided with eminent Performers, without Hopes of[98] an approaching Remedy. Let
them take it for their Pains. Let the World learn to applaud Merit; and (not to use a more
harsh Expression) be less complaisant to Faults.

§ 41. Whoever does not know how to steal the Time in Singing, knows not how to Compose, nor
to Accompany himself, and is destitute of the best Taste and greatest Knowledge.[99]

§ 42. The stealing of Time, in the Pathetick, is an honourable Theft in one that sings better
than others, provided he makes a Restitution with Ingenuity.

§ 43. An Exercise, no less necessary than this, is That of agreeably putting forth of the Voice,
without which all Application is vain. Whosoever pretends to obtain it, must hearken more to
the Dictates of the Heart, than to those of Art.

§ 44. Oh! how great a Master is the Heart! Confess it, my beloved Singers, and gratefully own,
that you would not have arrived at the highest Rank of the Profession if you had not been its
Scholars; own, that in a few Lessons from it, you learned the most beautiful Expressions, the
most refin'd Taste, the most noble Action, and the most exquisite Graces: Own, (though it be
hardly credible) that the Heart corrects the Defects of Nature, since it softens a Voice that's
harsh, betters an indifferent one, and perfects a good one: Own, when the Heart sings you cannot
dissemble, nor has Truth a greater Power of persuading: And, lastly, do you convince the World,
(what is not in my Power to do) that from the Heart alone you have learn'd that Je ne sçai
quoy, that pleasing Charm, that so subtily passes from Vein to Vein, and makes its way to the
very Soul.

§ 45. Though the way to the Heart is long and rugged, and known but to few, a studious Application
will, notwithstanding, master all Obstacles.

§ 46. The best Singer in the World continues to study, and persists in it as much to maintain
his Reputation, as he did to acquire it.

§ 47. To arrive at that glorious End, every body knows that there is no other Means than Study;
but That does not suffice; it is also necessary to know in what Manner, and with whose Assistance,
we must pursue our Studies.

§ 48.[100] There are now-a-days as many Masters as there are Professors of Musick in any Kind;
every one of them teaches, I don't mean the first Rudiments only, (That would be an Affront
to them;) I am now speaking of those who take upon them the part of a Legislator in the most
finished part in Singing; and should we then wonder that the good Taste is near lost, and that
the Profession is going to Ruin? So mischievous a Pretension prevails not only among those,
who can barely be said to sing, but among the meanest instrumental Performers; who, though
they never sung, nor know how to sing, pretend not only to teach, but to perfect, and find
some that are weak enough to be imposed on. But, what is more, the instrumental Performers
of some Ability imagine that the beautiful Graces and Flourishes, with their nimble Fingers,
will have the same Effect when executed with the Voice; but it will not do[101]. I should be
the first to condemn the magisterial Liberty I take, were it meant to give Offence to such
Singers and instrumental Performers of Worth, who know how to sing, perform, and instruct;
but my Correction aims no farther than to the Petulancy of those that have no Capacity, with
these few Words, Age quod agis; which (for those who do not understand Latin) is as much as
to say,-----Do You mind your Sol-fa; and You, your Instrument.

§ 49. If sometimes it does happen, that an indifferent Master should make an excellent Disciple,
it is then incontestable, that the Gift of Nature in the Student is superior to the Sufficiency
of the Instructor: and it is not to be wonder'd at, for, if from time to time, even great Masters
were not outdone, most of the finest Arts would have sunk before now.

§ 50. It may seem to many, that every perfect Singer must also be a perfect Instructor, but
it is not so; for his Qualifications (though ever so great) are insufficient, if he cannot
communicate his Sentiments with Ease, and in a Method adapted to the Ability of the Scholar;
if he has not some Notion of Composition, and a manner of instructing, which may seem rather
an Entertainment than a Lesson; with the happy Talent to shew the Ability of the Singer to
Advantage, and conceal his Imperfections; which are the principal and most necessary Instructions.

§ 51. A Master, that is possessed of the abovementioned Qualifications, is capable of Teaching;
with them he will raise a Desire to study; will correct Errors with a Reason; and by Examples
incite a Taste to imitate him.

§ 52. He knows, that a Deficiency of Ornaments displeases as much as the too great Abundance
of them; that a Singer makes one languid and dull with too little, and cloys one with too much;
but, of the two, he will dislike the former most, though it gives less Offence, the latter
being easier to be amended.

§ 53. He will have no Manner of Esteem for those who have no other Graces than gradual Divisions[102];
and will tell you, Embellishments of this Sort are only fit for Beginners.

§ 54. He will have as little Esteem for those who think to make their Auditors faint away,
with their Transition from the sharp Third to the Flat.

§ 55. He'll tell you, that a Singer is lazy, who on the Stage, from Night to Night, teaches
the Audience all his Songs; who, by hearing them always without the least Variation, have no
Difficulty to learn them by Heart.

§ 56. He will be affrighted at the Rashness of one that launches out, with little Practice,
and less Study; lest venturing too far, he should be in great Danger of losing himself.

§ 57. He will not praise one that presumes to sing two Parts in three of an Opera, promising
himself never to be tiresome, as if that divine Privilege of always pleasing were allowed him
here below. Such a one does not know the first Principle of musical Politicks; but Time will
teach it him. He, that sings little and well, sings very well.

§ 58. He will laugh at those who imagine to satisfy the Publick with the Magnificence of their
Habits, without reflecting, that Merit and Ignorance are equally aggrandized by Pomp. The Singers,
that have nothing but the outward Appearance, pay that Debt to the Eyes, which they owe to
the Ears.

§ 59. He will nauseate the new-invented Stile of those who provoke the innocent Notes with
coarse Startings of the Voice. A disagreeable Defect; however, being brought from[103] beyond
the Alps, it passes for a modern Rarity.

§ 60. He will be astonished at this bewitched Age, in which so many are paid so well for singing
ill. The Moderns would not be pleas'd to be put in Mind, that, twenty Years ago, indifferent
Singers had but mean Parts allotted them, even in the second-rate Theatres; whereas at present,
those, who are taught like Parrots, heap up Treasures beyond what the Singers of the first
Degree then did.[104]

§ 61. He will condemn the Ignorance of the Men most, they being more obliged to study than
the Women.

§ 62. He will not bear with one who imitates the Women, even in sacrificing the Time, in order
to acquire the Title of Modern.

§ 63. He will marvel at that[105] Singer, who, having a good Knowledge of Time, yet does not
make use of it, for want of having apply'd himself to the Study of Composition, or to accompany
himself. His Mistake makes him think that, to be eminent, it suffices to sing at Sight; and
does not perceive that the greatest Difficulty, and the whole Beauty of the Profession consists
in what he is ignorant of; he wants that Art which teaches to anticipate the Time, knowing
where to lose it again; and, which is still more charming, to know how to lose it, in order
to recover it again; which are the Advantages of such as understand Composition, and have the
best Taste.

§ 64. He will be displeased at the Presumption of a Singer who gets the Words of the most wanton
Airs of the Theatre rendered into Latin, that he may sing them with Applause in the[106] Church;
as if there were no Manner of Difference between the Stile of the one and the other; and, as
if the Scraps of the Stage were fit to offer to the Deity.

§ 65. What will he not say of him who has found out the prodigious Art of Singing like a Cricket?
Who could have ever imagin'd, before the Introduction of the Mode, that ten or a dozen Quavers
in a Row could be trundled along one after the other, with a Sort of Tremor, of the Voice,
which for some time past has gone under the name of Mordente Fresco?[107]

§ 66. He will have a still greater Detestation for the Invention of Laughing in Singing, or
that screaming like a Hen when she is laying her Egg. Will there not be some other little Animal
worth their Imitation, in order to make the Profession more and more ridiculous?

§ 67. He will disapprove the malicious Custom of a Singer in Repute, who talks and laughs on
the Stage with his Companions, to induce the Publick to believe that such a Singer, who appears
the first time on the Stage, does not deserve his Attention; when in reality he is afraid of,
or envies, his gaining Applause.

§ 68. He cannot endure the Vanity of that Singer, who, full of himself from the little he has
learned, is so taken with his own Performance, that he seems falling into an Extasy; pretending
to impose Silence and create Wonder, as if his first Note said to the Audience, Hear and Die:
But they, unwilling to die, chuse not to hear him, talk loud, and perhaps not much to his Advantage.
At his second Air the Noise encreases, and still encreasing, he looks upon it as a manifest
Injury done him; and, instead of correcting his conceited Pride by Study, he curses the deprav'd
Taste of that Nation that does not esteem him, menacing never to return again; and thus the
vain Wretch comforts himself.

