THE OLD STONE HOUSE

   A MEMORABLE NIGHT

   THE BLACK CROSS

   A MYSTERIOUS CASE

   SHALL HE WED HER?

THE OLD STONE HOUSE.

I was riding along one autumn day through a certain wooded portion of New York State, when
I came suddenly upon an old stone house in which the marks of age were in such startling contrast
to its unfinished condition that I involuntarily stopped my horse and took a long survey of
the lonesome structure. Embowered in a forest which had so grown in thickness and height since
the erection of this building that the boughs of some of the tallest trees almost met across
its decayed roof, it presented even at first view an appearance of picturesque solitude almost
approaching to desolation. But when my eye had time to note that the moss was clinging to eaves
from under which the scaffolding had never been taken, and that of the ten large windows in
the blackened front of the house only two had ever been furnished with frames, the awe of some
tragic mystery began to creep over me, and I sat and wondered at the sight till my increasing
interest compelled me to alight and take a nearer view of the place.

The great front door which had been finished so many years ago, but which had never been hung,
leaned against the side of the house, of which it had almost become a part, so long had they
clung together amid the drippings of innumerable rains. Close beside it yawned the entrance,
a large black gap through which nearly a century of storms had rushed with their winds and
wet till the lintels were green with moisture and slippery with rot. Standing on this untrod
threshold, I instinctively glanced up at the scaffolding above me, and started as I noticed
that it had partially fallen away, as if time were weakening its supports and making the precipitation
of the whole a threatening possibility. Alarmed lest it might fall while I stood there, I did
not linger long beneath it, but, with a shudder which I afterwards remembered, stepped into
the house and proceeded to inspect its rotting, naked, and unfinished walls. I found them all
in the one condition. A fine house had once been planned and nearly completed, but it had been
abandoned before the hearths had been tiled, or the wainscoting nailed to its place. The staircase
which ran up through the centre of the house was without banisters but otherwise finished and
in a state of fair preservation. Seeing this and not being able to resist the temptation which
it offered me of inspecting the rest of the house, I ascended to the second story.

Here the doors were hung and the fireplaces bricked, and as I wandered from room to room I
wondered more than ever what had caused the desertion of so promising a dwelling. If, as appeared,
the first owner had died suddenly, why could not an heir have been found, and what could be
the story of a place so abandoned and left to destruction that its walls gave no token of ever
having offered shelter to a human being? As I could not answer this question I allowed my imagination
full play, and was just forming some weird explanation of the facts before me when I felt my
arm suddenly seized from behind, and paused aghast. Was I then not alone in the deserted building?
Was there some solitary being who laid claim to its desolation and betrayed jealousy at any
intrusion within its mysterious precincts? Or was the dismal place haunted by some uneasy spirit,
who with long, uncanny fingers stood ready to clutch the man who presumed to bring living hopes
and fears into a spot dedicated entirely to memories? I had scarcely the courage to ask, but
when I turned and saw what it was that had alarmed me, I did not know whether to laugh at my
fears or feel increased awe of my surroundings. For it was the twigs of a tree which had seized
me, and for a long limb such as this to have grown into a place intended for the abode of man,
necessitated a lapse of time and a depth of solitude oppressive to think of.

Anxious to be rid of suggestions wellnigh bordering upon the superstitious, I took one peep
from the front windows, and then descended to the first floor. The sight of my horse quietly
dozing in the summer sunlight had reassured me, and by the time I had recrossed the dismal
threshold, and regained the cheerful highway, I was conscious of no emotions deeper than the
intense interest of a curious mind to solve the mystery and understand the secret of this remarkable
house.

Rousing my horse from his comfortable nap, I rode on through the forest; but scarcely had I
gone a dozen rods before the road took a turn, the trees suddenly parted, and I found myself
face to face with wide rolling meadows and a busy village. So, then, this ancient and deserted
house was not in the heart of the woods, as I had imagined, but in the outskirts of a town,
and face to face with life and activity. This discovery was a shock to my romance, but as it
gave my curiosity an immediate hope of satisfaction, I soon became reconciled to the situation,
and taking the road which led to the village, drew up before the inn and went in, ostensibly
for refreshment. This being speedily provided, I sat down in the cosy dining-room, and as soon
as opportunity offered, asked the attentive landlady why the old house in the woods had remained
so long deserted.

She gave me an odd look, and then glanced aside at an old man who sat doubled up in the opposite
corner. "It is a long story," said she, "and I am busy now; but later, if you wish to hear
it, I will tell you all we know on the subject. After father is gone out," she whispered. "It
always excites him to hear any talk about that old place."

I saw that it did. I had no sooner mentioned the house than his white head lifted itself with
something like spirit, and his form, which had seemed a moment before so bent and aged, straightened
with an interest that made him look almost hale again.

"I will tell you," he broke in; "I am not busy. I was ninety last birthday, and I forget sometimes
my grandchildren's names, but I never forget what took place in that old house one night fifty
years ago--never, never."

"I know, I know," hastily interposed his daughter, "you remember beautifully; but this gentleman
wishes to eat his dinner now, and must not have his appetite interfered with. You will wait,
will you not, sir, till I have a little more leisure?"

What could I answer but Yes, and what could the poor old man do but shrink back into his corner,
disappointed and abashed. Yet I was not satisfied, nor was he, as I could see by the appealing
glances he gave me now and then from under the fallen masses of his long white hair. But the
landlady was complaisant and moved about the table and in and out of the room with a bustling
air that left us but little opportunity for conversation. At length she was absent somewhat
longer than usual, whereupon the old man, suddenly lifting his head, cried out:

"She cannot tell the story. She has no feeling for it; she wasn't there."

"And you were," I ventured.

"Yes, yes, I was there, always there; and I see it all now," he murmured. "Fifty years ago,
and I see it all as if it were happening at this moment before my eyes. But she will not let
me talk about it," he complained, as the sound of her footsteps was heard again on the kitchen
boards. "Though it makes me young again, she always stops me just as if I were a child. But
she cannot help my showing you--"

Here her steps became audible in the hall, and his words died away on his lips. By the time
she had entered, he was seated with his head half turned aside, and his form bent over as if
he were in spirit a thousand miles from the spot.

Amused at his cunning, and interested in spite of myself at the childish eagerness he displayed
to tell his tale, I waited with a secret impatience almost as great as his own perhaps, for
her to leave the room again, and thus give him the opportunity of finishing his sentence. At
last there came an imperative call for her presence without, and she hurried away. She was
no sooner gone than the old man exclaimed:

"I have it all written down. I wrote it years and years ago, at the very time it happened.
She cannot keep me from showing you that; no, no, she cannot keep me from showing you that."
And rising to his feet with a difficulty that for the first time revealed to me the full extent
of his infirmity, he hobbled slowly across the floor to the open door, through which he passed
with many cunning winks and nods.

"It grows quite exciting," thought I, and half feared his daughter would not allow him to return.
But either she was too much engrossed to heed him, or had been too much deceived by his seeming
indifference when she last entered the room, to suspect the errand which had taken him out
of it. For sooner than I had expected, and quite some few minutes before she came back herself,
he shuffled in again, carrying under his coat a roll of yellow paper, which he thrust into
my hand with a gratified leer, saying:

"There it is. I was a gay young lad in those days, and could go and come with the best. Read
it, sir, read it; and if Maria says anything against it, tell her it was written long before
she was born and when I was as pert as she is now, and a good deal more observing."

Chuckling with satisfaction, he turned away, and had barely disappeared in the hall when she
came in and saw me with the roll in my hand.

"Well! I declare!" she exclaimed; "and has he been bringing you that? What ever shall I do
with him and his everlasting manuscript? You will pardon him, sir; he is ninety and upwards,
and thinks everybody is as interested in the story of that old house as he is himself."

"And I, for one, am," was my hasty reply. "If the writing is at all legible, I am anxious to
read it. You won't object, will you?"

"Oh, no," was her good-humored rejoinder. "I won't object; I only hate to have father's mind
roused on this subject, because he is sure to be sick after it. But now that you have the story,
read it; whether you will think as he did, on a certain point, is another question. I don't;
but then father always said I would never believe ill of anybody."

Her smile certainly bore out her words, it was so good-tempered and confiding; and pleased
with her manner in spite of myself, I accepted her invitation to make use of her own little
parlor, and sat down in the glow of a brilliant autumn afternoon to read this old-time history.

       *       *       *       *       *

Will Juliet be at home to-day? She must know that I am coming. When I met her this morning,
tripping back from the farm, I gave her a look which, if she cares anything about me, must
have told her that I would be among the lads who would be sure to pay her their respects at
early candle-light. For I cannot resist her saucy pout and dancing dimples any longer. Though
I am barely twenty, I am a man, and one who is quite forehanded and able to take unto himself
a wife. Ralph Urphistone has both wife and babe, and he was only twenty-one last August. Why,
then, should I not go courting, when the prettiest maid that has graced the town for many a
year holds out the guerdon of her smiles to all who will vie for them?

To be sure, the fact that she has more than one wooer already may be considered detrimental
to my success. But love is fed by rivalry, and if Colonel Schuyler does not pay her his addresses,
I think my chances may be considered as good as any one's. For am I not the tallest and most
straightly built man in town, and have I not a little cottage all my own, with the neatest
of gardens behind it, and an apple-tree in front whose blossoms hang ready to shower themselves
like rain upon the head of her who will enter there as a bride? It is not yet dark, but I will
forestall the sunset by a half hour and begin my visit now. If I am first at her gate, Lemuel
Phillips may look less arrogant when he comes to ask her company to the next singing school.

       *       *       *       *       *

I was not first at her gate; two others were there before me. Ah, she is prettier than ever
I supposed, and chirper than the sparrow which builds every year a nest in my old apple-tree.
When she saw me come up the walk, her cheeks turned pink, but I do not know if it was from
pleasure or annoyance, for she gave nothing but vexing replies to every compliment I paid her.
But then Lemuel Phillips fared no better; and she was so bitter-sweet to Orrin Day that he
left in a huff and vowed he would never step across her threshold again. I thought she was
a trifle more serious after he had gone, but when a woman's eyes are as bright as hers, and
the frowns and smiles with which she disports herself chase each other so rapidly over a face
both mischievous and charming, a man's judgment goes astray, and he scarcely knows reality
from seeming. But true or false, she is pretty as a harebell and bright as glinting sunshine;
and I mean to marry her, if only Colonel Schuyler will hold himself aloof.

Colonel Schuyler may hold himself aloof, but he is a man like the rest of us for all that.
Yesterday as I was sauntering in the churchyard waiting for the appearance of a certain white-robed
figure crowned by the demurest of little hats, I caught a glimpse of his face as he leaned
on one of the tombstones near Patience Goodyear's grave, and I saw that he was waiting also
for the same white figure and the same demure hat. This gave me a shock; for though I had never
really dared to hope he would remain unmoved by a loveliness so rare in our village, and indeed,
as I take it, in any village, I did not think he would show so much impatience, or await her
appearance with such burning and uncontrollable ardor.

Indeed I was so affected by his look that I forgot to watch any longer for her coming, but
kept my gaze fixed on his countenance, till I saw by the change which rapidly took place in
it that she had stepped out of the great church door and was now standing before us, making
the sunshine more brilliant by her smiles, and the spring the sweeter for her presence.

Then I came to myself and rushed forward with the rest of the lads. Did he follow behind us?
I do not think so, for the rosy lips which had smiled upon us with so airy a welcome soon showed
a discontented curve not to be belied by the merry words that issued from them, and when we
would have escorted her across the fields to her father's house, she made a mocking curtsy,
and wandered away with the ugliest old crone who mouths and mumbles in the meeting-house. Did
she do this to mock us or him? If to mock him he had best take care, for beauty scorned is
apt to grow dangerous. But perhaps it was to mock us? Well, well, there would be nothing new
in that; she is ever mocking us.

       *       *       *       *       *

They say the Colonel passes her gate a dozen times a day, but never goes in and never looks
up. Is he indifferent then? I cannot think so. Perhaps he fears her caprices and disapproves
of her coquetry. If that is so, she shall be my wife before he wakens to the knowledge that
her coquetry hides a passionate and loving heart.

Colonel Schuyler is a dark man. He has eyes which pierce you, and a smile which, if it could
be understood, might perhaps be less fascinating than it is. If she has noticed his watching
her, the little heart that flutters in her breast must have beaten faster by many a throb.
For he is the one great man within twenty miles, and so handsome and above us all that I do
not know of a woman but Juliet whose voice does not sink a tone lower whenever she speaks of
him. But he is a proud man, and seems to take no notice of any one. Indeed he scarcely appears
to live in our world. Will he come down from his high estate at the beck of this village beauty?
Many say not, but I say yes; with those eyes of his he cannot help it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Juliet is more capricious than ever. Lemuel Phillips for one is tired of it, and imitating
Orrin Day, bade her a good-even to-night which I am sure he does not intend to follow with
a blithe good-morrow.

I might do the same if her pleading eyes would let me. But she seems to cling to me even when
she is most provokingly saucy; and though I cannot see any love in her manner, there is something
in it very different from hate; and this it is which holds me. Can a woman be too pretty for
her own happiness, and are many lovers a weariness to the heart?

       *       *       *       *       *

Juliet is positively unhappy. To-day when she laughed the gayest it was to hide her tears,
and no one, not even a thoroughly spoiled beauty, could be as wayward as she if there were
not some bitter arrow rankling in her heart. She was riding down the street on a pillion behind
her father, and Colonel Schuyler, who had been leaning on the gate in front of his house, turned
his back upon her and went inside when he saw her coming. Was this what made her so white and
reckless when she came up to where I was standing with Orrin Day, and was it her chagrin at
the great man's apparent indifference which gave that sharp edge to the good-morning with which
she rode haughtily away? If it was I can forgive you, my lady-bird, for there is reason for
your folly if I am any judge of my fellow-men. Colonel Schuyler is not indifferent but circumspect,
and circumspection in a lover is an insult to his lady's charms.

       *       *       *       *       *

She knows now what I knew a week ago. Colonel Schuyler is in love with her and will marry her
if she does not play the coquette with him. He has been to her house and her father already
holds his head higher as he paces up and down the street. I am left in the lurch, and if I
had not foreseen this end to my hopes, might have been a very miserable man to-night. For I
was near obtaining the object of my heart, as I know from her own lips, though the words were
not intended for my ears. You see I was the one who surprised him talking with her in the garden.
I had been walking around the place on the outer side of the wall as I often did from pure
love for her, and not knowing she was on the other side was very much startled when I heard
her voice speaking my name; so much startled that I stood still in my astonishment and thus
heard her say:

"Philo Adams has a little cottage all his own and I can be mistress of it any day,--or so he
tells me. I had rather go into that little cottage where every board I trod on would be my
own, than live in the grandest room you could give me in a house of which I would not be the
mistress."

"But if I make a home for you," he pleaded, "grand as my father's, but built entirely for you--"

"Ah!" was her soft reply, "that might make me listen to you, for I should then think you loved me."

The wall was between us, but I could see her face as she said this as plainly as if I had been
the fortunate man at her side. And I could see his face too, though it was only in fancy I
had ever beheld it soften as I knew it must be softening now. Silence such as followed her
words is eloquent, and I feared my own passions too much to linger till it should be again
broken by vows I had not the courage to hear. So I crept away conscious of but one thing, which
was that my dream was ended, and that my brave apple-tree would never shower its bridal blossoms
upon the head I love, for whatever threshold she crosses as mistress it will not now be that
of the little cottage every board of which might have been her own.

       *       *       *       *       *

If I had doubted the result of the Colonel's offer to Juliet, the news which came to me this
morning would have convinced me that all was well with them and that their marriage was simply
a matter of time. Ground has been broken in the pleasant opening on the verge of the forest,
and carts and men hired to bring stone for the fine new dwelling Colonel Schuyler proposes
to rear for himself. The whole town is agog, but I keep the secret I surprised, and only Juliet
knows that I am no longer deceived as to her feelings, for I did not go to see her to-night
for the first time since I made up mind that I would have her for my wife. I am glad I restrained
myself, for Orrin Day, who had kept his word valiantly up to this very day, came riding by
my house furiously a half hour ago, and seeing me, called out:

"Why didn't you tell me she had a new adorer? One or the others I
have seen that my other classmates. Huck Finn is for life drawn, no less Tom Sawyer, but this
does not do a specific personality, but was equipped with characteristic features of several of my
peers and must therefore be that, as compared with psychological as fairly complicated problem.

I
must remark here that at the time of my story - thirty or forty years
- having the immature and ignorant of the West nor the strangest,
most unlikely prejudices and superstition ruled.

Although this book was written primarily to entertain the little world,
I may hope so well that it is left for adults also not completely
ignored, I have but it tries to show them in a pleasant way, what
they once were themselves, as they felt, thought, talked, and the
nature of their ambitions and their operations were.

First chapter.

, Tom! "

No answer.

, Tom! "

Everything stops.

, I should be surprised at where the kid puts again! Tom! "

The old lady pulled her spectacles down and looked over it, then she put them on the forehead
and looked away underneath. Seldom or never looked for such a small thing, like a boy is, through
the lenses of their public spectacles that the pride of her heart
was more stylish and useful than they would be seen by some as much
cooker rings have.

Restless, she held a moment look around and said do not just angry, but always loud enough
to be heard throughout the room, "I will keep strict court do if I get you, I will - "

Here she stopped because she had been bent down and poked with a broom
under the bed around, and then she had to catch my breath in order
to express their anger.

She had unearthed nothing but the cat.

"Thus, a boy is not even occurred to me!"

She went to the open door, stopped and peered between the vines and flowering Weeds, which
together made up the, garden, through. No Tom.

So they got for their Voice called out and into all corners:,, Tom,
Tom "Behind her was a faint sound audible, and she turned around just
in time to catch a small boy and prevent them from escaping. ,, Well,
there are you?

At the pantry, I certainly not thought of that!

What have you done again because, hey?

"

"Nothing."

"Nothing! Look at your hands and your mouth. What is that? "

, By God, I do not know, aunt! "

"But I know it 's jam. How many times have I told you if you of the jam left, I would blueing up.
Give me the stick here! "

The floor was shaking in her hands. The danger was urgent.

, Holla, aunt, look up at times fast! "

The old lady whirled around and brought her skirts in safety, while the boy, the moment perceiving,
on the high board fence and climbed beyond disappeared. Aunt Polly was speechless, then she began to
smile good-naturedly. , The Cuckoo's get the boy! I will because the never learn? If he has not
because I already played enough tricks that I always crawl into the trap? But old foolishness
is the greatest folly, and an old dog learns no more new tricks. But, dear God, he makes each
day new, and how can someone know from him what is coming! It seems he knows exactly how long
he can torment me until I'm behind it, and it is so very smart, if we need to do something
find for me to astonish for a moment or make me laugh against my will, it is always the same Story, and
I do not manage to beat him. I am not doing my duty the boy, as I should, God knows. , Spare
the rod and you spoil your child ', ie it.

I commit wrong and maybe it can in front of me and not answer for him, I fear me. He is full
of fools pranks and all sorts of nonsense - but no matter! He is my dead sister Child, a poor
child, and I do not have the heart to somehow lead him to a puppet. If I'll leave him to himself,
expresses me my conscience, and as often as I have to hit him, want to break with the old heart.
Now that's may be Anyway, the man remains dependent weibgeborene his whole life through in doubt
and error, as the Scripture says, and I think it is so. He will play again the whole evening buff, and I
should of right be due to punish him to work tomorrow. It's probably hard for him to sit still
on Saturday if all the other boys have holiday, but he hates work more than anyone else what,
and I will do my duty to him, or I would send the child to reason. "

Tom played blind man's buff, and felt very comfortable with it.

In due time he returned very cheeky help to return home to Jim, the
small colored boy, before the wooden table for the next day to cut
and split - and finally he had Jim's adventures tells of the day,
while Jim had done three quarters of work.

Tom's younger brother (or rather half-brother) Sid was already done
with his share of the work, the reading together of wood, for he was
a phlegmatic young and had no adventure and daring ventures.

While Tom was eating his soup and then stole possible lumps of sugar,
put Aunt Polly all sorts of questions to him, malicious and embarrassing
questions because it was eager to him in to attract a trap.

Like so many good-hearted creatures, they formed their talent in
diplomacy, not a little higher and looked at her very transparent
attacks as wonders inquisitorial cunning.

, Tom, "she said," it was
rather hot in the school?

"

,, M - yes

, Very hot, eh? "

,, M - yes.

, You did not feel like going for a swim? "

Tom was taken aback - an uncomfortable suspicion arose in him.

He looked inquiringly at Aunt Polly's Face, but there was nothing to read it. He said, "No - that is - not so
much."

The old lady reached out her hand to him, felt his collar and said, "Now, it seems me, can you at
least not be too hot, no? "In this way, they thought they had convinced of the perfect dryness
of his collar, without their true intention of Remember to leave
away.

But Tom had understood yet which way the wind was blowing. In such a hurry he wisely to anticipate
all possible questions.

"Some of us have held his head under the pump - mine is still wet - .

Feel only "Aunt Polly was vexed to have overlooked such an important indexing, so had they given
in advance their weapons out of hand.

Then it came a new thought.

, Tom, you've surely not the collar, I had you sewn to the jacket, the sub-keep-the-pump of the
head removed? Do something, even the jacket on! "

Toms faces brightened.

He opened his jacket. His collar was tightly.

, Really. Na 'Tis well, you can go. I could have sworn that you were in the water mayest. Well,
it's time you like burnt cat, I'm up in wrongly suspected had - this time, Tom. "

She was his half-vexed, so driven from the field, and yet she was glad that Tom was really time
obedient. Suddenly Sidney said: "I've seen yet but, that you sewed his collar with white thread
- and now he is black at once!

,, Of course I have taken white - Tom "!

But Tom had already made from the dust. ,, Well, wait, Sidney, which you shall pay me, " so he was
out the door.

In a safe place Tom gazed then two long needles, which under the collar of his Skirt stuck,
one with black, the other with white thread.

, You just never noticed it, "he thought, without this Sid. One black, the other Sometimes
white - the hell I wanted, she opted for one so I knew what I would be. And Sid - well, his beating
him is safe; if I do not do, is to me the Ears cut off. "

Tom was not a model boy, but he knew one and hated him from the heart.

A moment - and Tom had forgotten all his troubles.

Not that they suddenly would be diminished or had weighed less at
the heart of the man, - but Tom had a new, wonderful job, and lifted
him up and helped him over everything - for the moment, as just a
man at the thought of all misfortune verschmerzt to new acts.

This new job was a whole new way to whistle, which some taught him
a Negro boy recently had, and which are now practiced undisturbed had.

The important invention was based on a bird-like warbling trills,
with a simultaneous, brought forth by the tongue strike quick march
of sound.

The reader knows how to do this delicate music has - and he was never
young.

Tom had with diligence and attention Soon the trick, and strolled
out, his mouth full of harmony and pride in the heart, the village
street down.

He felt like an astronomer who has discovered a new star.

Except that none of Star gazer joy and satisfaction was so deep and
untroubled as the toms can be.

The summer evening was long and still light Suddenly Tom heard to
whistle at.

A stranger was standing before him, a boy, hardly bigger than he
is a new acquaintance, no matter what Age and sex, was in the poor,
small St. Petersburg has an event.

This Boy was well dressed - too well for a day.

Strange.

His cap was delicate, his tight-fitting blue jacket new and clean,
as are his pants.

He had shoes on, and It was only Friday! He even had a scarf to a true monster of a cloth. In
general He had something about her, which challenged the natural
man in Tom.

The more Tom's new world wonder looked, the more he turned up his
nose at such affectation, and his own appearance he always seemed
shabby.

Both were silent.

Wanted to avoid a so wanted the others escape, of course, to the
same page.

So they wanted a long time challenging each other in the eye.

Finally Tom said: "Shall I beat you?

, I would like to find out a little!

"

,, The, however, you'll see! "

,, Thou canst not! "

,, Well I can do it!

"

, Pah! "

,, Well I can do it!

"

"It is not true!"

,, But true! "

An uncomfortable pause. Then again Tom: "What's your name?

,, That's none, street boy! "

"I want you have to show that's what concerns me!"

,, Well, why do you do's not? "

"If you say much, I do it!"

,, Much - much - much - so do it now!

,
Oh, you think you're more than me?

If I only wish I could up with a Hand it get! "

,, Well, why do you do it not for? You always say just that you can
do it! "

"If you're naughty, I do it!"

, Pah - that can say that! "

"You are probably the right way, you wind dog!"

"What you aufhast a stupid hat!"

"If he does not like it, you'll beat him down, yes! Hit him down but if you want a few slaps
in the face! "

, Liar! "

"Self liar!"

, Braggart, you're too cowardly! "

, 'Oh, do that you get stuck! "

, You, if you have a long chatter nonsense, I'll throw yourself a stone at his head! "

,, Well, that's wag it! "

"I do it too!"

"Why do you do it not for?

You say it's always just. Do it once yet! You're too scared! "

"I'm not afraid!"

,, Of course you're afraid! "

"It is not true!"

,, But true! "

Another pause. Both stare at each other, walk around and sniff around each other like young dogs.
Suddenly they are in perfect position fight shoulder to shoulder. Tom shouted: , Shear you
away! "

, I can think of nothing! "

,, I remember not one! "

So they stood, each returned a foot as a support to each other from all around force pushing and
angry gaze. But no one could gain an advantage off the enemy. From this silent battle hot and
breathless, were both held at the same time, and Tom said, "You're
a coward and an ape on top of that!

I'll tell my big brother, who can up with Spanking the little finger, and I'll tell him where's
he's doing! "

"What I care about your brother!

I have a brother who is much stronger than yours. Throws as your brother over the fence! "

Both
brothers were of course quite imaginary.

, You're lying!

"

,, You know! "

Tom drew a line with your foot through the sand and said, "Come over
and I'll thump you, that you are staying!

"

Buy the other jumped over and said defiantly: "There, now do it!"

,
Do not make me angry, I advise you!

"

,, At the Arno, for two'd Penny 'I do's it! "

The next moment the fine boy had taken a two-penny piece from his pocket and held Tom before
it challenging the nose. Tom struck out of his hand. The next moment both boys were rolling
in the dirt, into each other bitterly and two cats, and while a few Minutes down and dragged
her on her hair and clothes, beat and scratched himself noses, and covered with dust and glory.
Suddenly, the situation becomes clearer, and from Tom popped up the fight crowd, riding on the other,
and traktierend him with his fists.

, Say: Enough!

The boy continued his frantic efforts to free himself away, screaming with rage.

, Say: Enough! "And Tom beat merrily.

Finally came the other half choked, 'Enough forth. "Tom let him get up and said, "Well, now you
know it! Next time before you see better, with whom do you tie him! "

The stranger strolled in, the dust from the clothes hitting, sobbing, her nose rubbing from
time to time looking around to threaten Tom that he beat him the next time shall, after which
Tom laughed scornfully and soul happily strolled home.

And as soon as he his back was turned, lifted the other on a stone, aimed, Tom struck between the
shoulders and ran away with the speed of an antelope. Tom followed the traitor to his apartment
and found a way where he lived. As a brave hero he remained challenging
a time to a fence, are waiting to see if the enemy would dare to come
out again; but the enemy contented himself with him to cut through
the window faces and took care not to leave the neutral ground. Finally,
the enemy's mother appeared, and called a tom bad, vicious, vulgar
child, and drove him away. So went on Tom, but he did , said he hoped
to catch the enemy yet again. "

He came home a little late, and as
he climbed carefully into the window, discovered He ambushed in the
form of his aunt, and when she saw the state of his clothes, was her
decision taken irrevocably to take him on Saturday in rigorous imprisonment
and tidy to sweat.

CHAPTER II.

Saturday morning was come, and it
was a bright, fresh and sparkling summer morning of Life. Every heart
was full of singing, and whose heart was young, had a song on his
lips. Joy shone on every face, and the desire to jump flashed around
the feet. The Acacia flourished, and their sweet scent filled the
air. 

Cardiff Hill, near the house and the same outstanding, was
covered with green and was just far enough to look like the Promised
Land, dreamy, appearing calmly and without prejudice.

Tom appeared
on the scene with a bucket full of color and a big brush. He looked
the fence - and all the faded splendor of nature, and deep melancholy
took possession of his mind. Thirty yards long and nine feet high
fence the unfortunate! Life appeared he sad. He felt his little existence
as a burden. Sighing, he dipped his brush in the Dash-pot and one
of the top plank, repeated the operation, and again, and compared
the small painted piece with the infinite distance still to be completed
- Discouraged and squatted on a tree stump. Jim came up with a Zinneimer
out the door , Buffalo Gals "singing. To get water from the pump,
Tom has always been one of the most unworthy Tasks appeared, now it
seemed different. He said that he then society shall find; whites,
mulattoes and blacks, boys and girls we met there forever, up to it
was the turn to pump hanging out, some exaggerated a game, were quarreling,
beating Betting and employ. And then he reflected that although only
one hundred and fifty yards of the pump was removed, but Jim still
never needed less than an hour to fetch a bucket of water, and had
to be brought even then usual. So he said, "You, Jim, I want water
To get if you want to paint now. "

Jim shook his head and replied:
"It does not work, Master Tom. Old lady say to me go and fetch water
and nothing to stop with someone. They say they know that Master Tom
will try to win to remove me and they say, go to Jim for his own Business
and to delete anything. "

, Oh, Jim, let them just talk! She makes
it's forever. Just give me the bucket - you should see, I'll be right
back! It's does not need to know. "

"No, Master Tom, I do nothing!
Old lady do it bite your head off if he doing so. Sure, Master Tom!
"

, You? She can not hit - it goes with a thimble on your head, and
who is doing what it is? Your words are dangerous, huh - yes, but
say it is not yet What to do if they were not so much wanted to cry
here. - You, Jim, and I'll give 'ne marble! Or 'ne glass ball! "

Jim
began to waver.

, A white glass ball, Jim - and listen even know
what for 'nen beautiful sound it has!

, Oh, be the beautiful, beautiful
crystal ball! But Master Tom, I have so terribly afraid before old
lady! "

But Jim was only human - this seduction were too strong for
him. He sat his bucket back and grabbed the ball. The next moment
he rushed down the street with his bucket and a cry of alarm, - Tom
worked with vigor, and Aunt Polly, a slipper in her hand and triumph
in the eye, returned from the field.

But Tom's energy did not last
long. He began to think of all the tricks for which he had planned
today, and his grief grew. Soon would become his playmates, freely
and carelessly, passing by all possible expedition to go out and would
rip their jokes about him, who stood there and had to work - the very
thought of it burned like fire. He pulled out his worldly wealth and
held a military parade: all kinds of self-invented Toys, marbles,
and trash - enough to buy a work exchange, but not enough to get by,
even for half an hour of freedom. So he put his paltry possessions
back into his pocket and gave up the idea of ​​a bribery attempt at
to make the boy. In the midst of this gloomy and hopeless Views suddenly
an idea about him. Certainly not a big, bright idea. He took up his
brush again on and sat quietly continuing to work. Ben Rogers appeared
in sight, the boy of all boys, was allowed to make fun of all. Ben's
gait was jumping, dancing, jumping - Evidence enough that his heart
light and his thoughts and plans were great. He gnawed on a Apple,
leaving a long, melodious ho! ho! , Followed by a listening grunted:
ding, dong, ding! ding, dong, dong! - For he was at that moment, a
steam boat. As he approached, He moderated his speed, took over the
middle of the road, turned to starboard and put elegantly and with
much shouting and in fact, because he represented here is the place
of the "Big Missouri "and was nine feet deep. He was steam boat captain,
crew and looked at the same time himself standing on the bridge, giving
orders and execution monitoring.

, Stop! Ling -! A, ling, ling "The
main route was over, and he turned slowly a Tributaries of the river
to. , Stop! Back! Ling - a, ling, ling "His arms fell tired down.
, Turn, starboard! Ling - a, ling, ling! Tschschschuh! Tschuh! Tschuuuhhh!
" Some of the complacency of spirit which I had acquired after
much struggle and stern determination.

       *       *       *       *       *

Colonel Schuyler has not yet returned, and now Orrin has gone away. Indeed, no one knows where
to find him nowadays, for he is here and there on his great white horse, riding off one day
and coming back the next, ever busy, and, strange to say, always cheerful. He is making money,
I hear, buying up timber and then selling it to builders, but he does not sell to one builder,
whose house seems to suffer in consequence. Where is the Colonel, and why does he not come
home and look after his own?

I have learned her secret at last, and in a strange enough way. I was waiting for her father
in his own little room, and as he did not come as soon as I anticipated, I let my secret despondency
have its way for a moment, and sat leaning forward, with my head buried in my hands. My face
was to the fire and my back to the door, and for some reason I did not hear it open, and was
only aware of the presence of another person in the room by the sound of a little gasp behind
me, which was choked back as soon as it was uttered. Feeling that this could come from no one
but Juliet, I for some reason hard to fathom sat still, and the next moment became conscious
of a touch soft as a rose-leaf settle on my hair, and springing up, caught the hand which had
given it, and holding it firmly in mine, gave her one look which made her chin fall slowly
on her breast and her eyes seek the ground in the wildest distress and confusion.

"Juliet--" I began.

But she broke in with a passion too impetuous to be restrained:

"Do not--do not think I knew or realized what I was doing. It was because your head looked
so much like his as you sat leaning forward in the firelight that I--I allowed myself one little
touch just for the heart's ease it must bring. I--I am so lonesome, Philo, and--and--"

I dropped her hand. I understood the whole secret now. My hair is blonde like Orrin's, and
her feelings stood confessed, never more to be mistaken by me.

"You love Orrin!" I gasped; "you who are pledged to Colonel Schuyler!"

"I love Orrin," she whispered, "and I am pledged to Colonel Schuyler. But you will never betray
me," she said.

"I betray you?" I cried, and if some of the bitterness of my own disappointed hopes crept into
my tones, she did not seem to note it, for she came quite close to my side and looked up into
my face in a way that almost made me forget her perfidy and her folly. "Juliet," I went on,
for I felt never more strongly than at this moment that I should act a brother's part towards
her, "I could never find it in my heart to betray you, but are you sure that you are doing
wisely to betray the Colonel for a man no better than Orrin. I--I know you do not want to hear
me say this, for if you care for him you must think him good and noble, but Juliet, I know
him and I know the Colonel, and he is no more to be compared with the man you are betrothed
to than--"

"Hush!" she cried, almost commandingly, and the airy, dainty, dimpled creature whom I knew
seemed to grow in stature and become a woman, in her indignation; "you do not know Orrin and
you do not know the Colonel. You shall not draw comparisons between them. I will have you think
of Orrin only, as I do, day and night, ever and always."

"But," I exclaimed, aghast, "if you love him so and despise the Colonel, why do you not break
your troth with the latter?"

"Because," she murmured, with white cheeks and a wandering gaze, "I have sworn to marry the
Colonel, and I dare not break my oath. Sworn to be his wife when the house he is building is
complete; and the oath was on the graves of the dead; on the graves of the dead!" she repeated.

"But," I said, without any intimation of having heard that oath, "you are breaking that oath
in private with every thought you give to Orrin. Either complete your perjury by disowning
the Colonel altogether, or else give up Orrin. You cannot cling to both without dishonor; does
not your father tell you so?"

"My father--oh, he does not know; no one knows but you. My father likes the Colonel; I would
never think of telling him."

"Juliet," I declared solemnly, "you are on dangerous ground. Think what you are doing before
it is too late. The Colonel is not a man to be trifled with."

"I know it," she murmured, "I know it," and would not say another word or let me.

And so the burden of this new apprehension is laid upon me; for happiness cannot come out of
this complication.

       *       *       *       *       *

Where is Orrin, and what is he doing that he stays so much from home? If it were not for the
intent and preoccupied look which he wears when I do see him, I should think that he was absenting
himself for the purpose of wearing out his unhappy passion. But the short glimpses I have had
of him as he has ridden busily through the town have left me with no such hope, and I wait
with feverish impatience for some fierce action on his part, or what would be better, the Colonel's
return. And the Colonel must come back soon, for nothing goes well in a long absence, and his
house is almost at a standstill.

       *       *       *       *       *

Colonel Schuyler has come and, I hear, is storming angrily over the mishaps that have delayed
the progress of his new dwelling. He says he will not go away again till it is completed, and
has been riding all the morning in every direction, engaging new men to aid the dilatory workmen
already employed. Does Orrin know this? I will go down to his house and see.

       *       *       *       *       *

And now I know Orrin's secret. He was not at home, of course, and being determined to get at
the truth of his mysterious absences, I mounted a horse of my own and rode off to find him.

Why I took this upon myself, or whether I had the right to do it, I have not stopped to ask.
I went in the direction he had last gone, and after I had ridden through two villages I heard
of him as having passed still farther east some two hours before.

Not in the least deterred, I hurried on, and having threaded a thicket and forded a stream,
I came upon a beautiful open country wholly new to me, where, on the verge of a pleasant glade
and in full view of a most picturesque line of hills, I saw shining the fresh boards of a new
cottage. Instantly the thought struck me, "It is Orrin's, and he is building it for Juliet,"
and filled with a confusion of emotions, I spurred on my horse, and soon drew up before it.

Orrin was standing, pale and defiant, in the doorway, and as I met his eye, I noticed, with
a sick feeling of contempt, that he swung the whip he was holding smartly against his leg in
what looked like a very threatening manner.

"Good-evening, Orrin," I cried. "You have a very pleasant site here--preferable to the Colonel's,
I should say."

"What has the Colonel to do with me?" was his fierce reply, and he turned as if about to go
into the house.

"Only this," I calmly answered; "I think he will get his house done first."

He wheeled and faced me, and his eye which had looked simply sullen shot a fierce and dangerous
gleam.

"What makes you think that?" he cried.

"He has come back, and to-day engaged twenty extra men to push on the work."

"Indeed!" and there was contempt in his tone. "Well, I wish him joy and a sound roof!"

And this time he did go into the house.

As he had not asked me to follow, I of course had no alternative but to ride on. As I did so,
I took another look at the house and saw with a strange pang at the heart that the plastering
was on the walls and the windows ready for glazing. "I was wrong," said I to myself; "it is
Orrin's house which will be finished first."

       *       *       *       *       *

And what if it is? Will she turn her back upon the Colonel's lofty structure and take refuge
in this cottage remote from the world? I cannot believe it, knowing how she loves show and
the smiles and gallantries of men. And yet--and yet, she is so capricious and Orrin so determined
that I do not know what to think or what to fear, and I ride back with a heavy heart, wishing
she had never come up from the farm to worry and inflame the souls of honest men.

       *       *       *       *       *

And now the Colonel's work goes on apace, and the whole town is filled with the noise and bustle
of lumbering carts and eager workmen. The roof which Orrin so bitterly wished might be a sound
one has been shingled; and under the Colonel's eye and the Colonel's constant encouragement,
part after part of the new building is being fitted to its place with a precision and despatch
that to many minds promise the near dawning of Juliet's wedding-day. But I know that afar in
the east another home is nearer completion than this, and whether she knows it too or does
not know it (which is just as probable), her wilful, sportive, and butterfly nature seems to
be preparing itself for a struggle which may rend if not destroy its airy and delicate wings.

I have prepared myself too, and being still and always her friend, I stand ready to mediate
or assist, as opportunity offers or circumstances demand. She realizes this, and leans on me
in her secret hours of fear, or why does her face brighten when she sees me, and her little
hand thrust itself confidingly forth from under its shrouding mantle and grasp mine with such
a lingering and entreating pressure? And the Colonel? Does he realize, too, that I am any more
to her than her other cast-off lovers and would-be friends? Sometimes I think he does, and
eyes me with suspicion. But he is ever so courteous that I cannot be sure, and so do not trouble
myself in regard to a jealousy so illy founded and so easily dispelled.

He is always at Juliet's side and seems to surround her with a devotion which will make it
very difficult for any other man, even Orrin, to get her ear.

       *       *       *       *       *

The crisis is approaching. Orrin is again in town, and may be seen riding up and down the streets
in his holiday clothes. Have some whispers of his secret love and evident intentions reached
the ear of the Colonel? Or is Juliet's father alone concerned? For I see that the blinds of
her lattice are tightly shut, and watch as I may, I cannot catch a glimpse of her eager head
peering between them at the flaunting horseman as he goes careering by.

       *       *       *       *       *

The hour has come and how different is the outcome from any I had imagined. I was sitting last
night in my own lonely little room, which opens directly on the street, struggling as best
I might against the distraction of my thoughts which would lead me from the book I was studying,
when a knock on the panels of my door aroused me, and almost before I could look up, that same
door swung open and a dark form entered and stood before me.

For a moment I was too dazed to see who it was, and rising ceremoniously, I made my bow of
welcome, starting a little as I met the Colonel's dark eyes looking at me from the folds of
the huge mantle in which he had wrapped himself. "Your worship?" I began, and stumbling awkwardly,
offered him a chair which he refused with a gesture of his smooth white hand.

"Thank you, no," said he, "I do not sit down in your house till I know if it is you who have
stolen the heart of my bride away from me and if it is you with whom she is prepared to flee."

"Ah," was my involuntary exclamation, "then it has come. You know her folly, and will forgive
it because she is such a child."

"Her folly? Are you not then the man?" he cried; but in a subdued tone which showed what a
restraint he was putting upon himself even in the moment of such accumulated emotions.

"No," said I; "if your bride meditates flight, it is not with me she means to go. I am her
friend, and the man who would take her from you is not. I can say no more, Colonel Schuyler."

He eyed me for a moment with a deep and searching gaze which showed me that his intellect was
not asleep though his heart was on fire.

"I believe you," said he; and threw aside his cloak and sat down. "And now," he asked, "who
is the man?"

Taken by surprise, I stammered and uttered some faint disclaimer; but seeing by his steady
look and firm-set jaw that he meant to know, and detecting as I also thought in his general
manner and subdued tones the promise of an unexpected forbearance, I added impulsively:

"Let the wayward girl tell you herself; perhaps in the telling she will grow ashamed of her
caprice."

"I have asked her," was the stern reply, "and she is dumb." Then in softer tones he added:
"How can I do anything for her if she will not confide in me. She has treated me most ungratefully,
but I mean to be kind to her. Only I must first know if she has chosen worthily."

"Who is there of worth in town?" I asked, softened and fascinated by his manner. "There is
no man equal to yourself."

"You say so," he cried, and waved his hand impatiently. Then with a deep and thrilling intensity
which I feel yet, he repeated, "His name, his name? Tell me his name."

The Colonel is a man of power, accustomed to control men. I could not withstand his look or
be unmoved by his tones. If he meant well to Orrin and to her, what was I that I should withhold
Orrin's name. Falteringly I was about to speak it when a sudden sound struck my ears, and rising
impetuously I drew him to the window, blowing out the candles as I passed them.

"Hark!" I cried, as the rush of pounding hoofs was heard on the road, and "Look!" I added,
as a sudden figure swept by on the panting white horse so well known by all in that town.

"Is it he?" whispered the dark figure at my side as we both strained our eyes after Orrin's
fast vanishing form.

"You have seen him," I returned; and drawing him back from the window, I closed the shutters
with care, lest Orrin should be seized with a freak to return and detect me in conference with
his heart's dearest enemy.

Silence and darkness were now about us, and the Colonel, as if anxious to avail himself of
the surrounding gloom, caught my arm as I moved to relight the candles.

"Wait," said he; and I understood and stopped still.

And so we stood for a moment, he quiet as a carven statue and I restless but obedient to his
wishes. When he stirred I carefully lit the candles, but I did not look at him till he had
donned his cloak and pulled his hat well over his eyes. Then I turned, and eying him earnestly,
said:

"If I have made a mistake--"

But he quickly interrupted me, averring:

"You have made no mistake. You are a good lad, Philo, and if it had been you--" He did not
say what he would have done, but left the sentence incomplete and went on: "I know nothing
of this Orrin Day, but what a woman wills she must have. Will you bring this fellow--he is
your friend is he not?--to Juliet's house in the morning? Her father is set on her being the
mistress of the new stone house and we three will have to reason with him, do you see?"

Astonished, I bowed with something like awe. Was he so great-hearted as this? Did he intend
to give up his betrothed to the man whom she loved, and even to plead her cause with the father
she feared? My admiration would have its vent, and I uttered some foolish words of sympathy,
which he took with the stately, rather condescending grace which they perhaps merited; after
which, he added again: "You will come, will you not?" and bowed kindly and retreated towards
the door, while I, abashed and worshipful, followed with protestations that nothing should
hinder me from doing his will, till he had passed through the doorway and vanished from my sight.

And yet I do not want to do his will or take Orrin to that house. I might have borne with sad
equanimity to see her married to the Colonel, for he is far above me, but to Orrin--ah, that
is a bitter outlook, and I must have been a fool to have promised aught that will help to bring
it about. Still, am I not her sworn friend, and if she thinks she can be happy with him, ought
I not to do my share towards making her so?

I wonder if the Colonel knows that Orrin too has been building himself a house?

I did not sleep last night, and I have not eaten this morning. Thoughts robbed me of sleep,
and a visit from Orrin effectually took away from me whatever appetite I might have had. He
came in almost at daybreak. He looked dishevelled and wild, and spoke like a man who had stopped
more than once at the tavern.

"Philo," said he, "you have annoyed me by your curiosity for more than a year; now you can
do me a favor. Will you call at Juliet's house and see if she is free to go and come as she
was a week ago?"

"Why?" I asked, thinking I perceived a reason for his bloodshot eye, and yet being for the
moment too wary, perhaps too ungenerous, to relieve him from the tension of his uncertainty.

"Why?" he repeated. "Must you know all that goes on in my mind, and cannot I keep one secret
to myself?"

"You ask me to do you a favor," I quietly returned. "In order to do it intelligently, I must
know why it is asked."

"I do not see that," objected Orrin, "and if you were not such a boy I'd leave you on the spot
and do the errand myself. But you mean no harm, and so I will tell you that Juliet and I had
planned to run away together last night, but though I was at the place of meeting, she did
not come, nor has she made any sign to show me why she failed me."

"Orrin," I began, but he stopped me with an oath.

"No sermons," he protested. "I know what you would have done if instead of smiling on me she
had chanced to give all her poor little heart to you."

"I should not have tempted her to betray the Colonel," I exclaimed hotly, perhaps because the
sudden picture he presented to my imagination awoke within me such a torrent of unsuspected
emotions. "Nor should I have urged her to fly with me by night and in stealth."

"You do not know what you would do," was his rude and impatient rejoinder. "Had she looked
at you, with tears in her arch yet pathetic blue eyes, and listened while you poured out your
soul, as if heaven were opening before her and she had no other thought in life but you, then--"

"Hush!" I cried, "do you want me to go to her house for you, or do you want me to stay away?"

"You know I want you to go."

"Then be still, and listen to what I have to say. I will go, but you must go too. If you want
to take Juliet away from the Colonel you must do it openly. I will not abet you, nor will I
encourage any underhanded proceedings."

"You are a courageous lad," he said, "in other men's affairs. Will you raise me a tomb if the
Colonel runs me through with his sword?"

"I at least should not feel the contempt for you which I should if you eloped with her behind
his back."

"Now you are courageous on your own behalf," laughed he, "and that is better and more to the
point." Yet he looked as if he could easily spit me on his own sword, which I noticed was dangling
at his heels.

"Will you come?" I urged, determined not to conciliate or enlighten him even if my forbearance
cost me my life.

He hesitated, and then broke into a hoarse laugh. "I have drunk just enough to be reckless,"
said he; "yes, I will go; and the devil must answer for the result."

I had never seen him look so little the gentleman, and perhaps it was on this very account
I became suddenly quite eager to take him at his word before time and thought should give him
an opportunity to become more like himself; for I could not but think that if she saw him in
this condition she must make comparisons between him and the Colonel which could not but be
favorable to the latter. But it was still quite early, and I dared not run the risk of displeasing
the Colonel by anticipating his presence, so I urged Orrin into that little back parlor of
mine, where I had once hoped to see a very different person installed, and putting wine and
biscuits before him, bade him refresh himself while I prepared myself for appearing before
the ladies.

When the hour came for us to go I went to him. He was pacing the floor and trying to school
himself into patience, but he made but a sorry figure, and I felt a twinge of conscience as
he thrust on his hat without any attempt to smooth his dishevelled locks, or rearrange his
disordered ruffles. Should I permit him to go thus disordered, or should I detain him long
enough to fit him for the eye of the dainty Juliet? He answered the question himself. "Come,"
said he, "I have chewed my sleeve long enough in suspense. Let us go and have an end of it.
If she is to be my wife she must leave the house with me to-day, if not, I have an hour's work
before me down yonder," and he pointed in the direction of his new house. "When you see the
sky red at noonday, you will know what that is."

"Orrin!" I cried, and for the first time I seized his arm with something like a fellow-feeling.

But he shook me off.

"Don't interfere with me," he said, and strode on, sullen and fierce, towards the place where
such a different greeting awaited him from any that he feared.

Ought I to tell him this? Ought I to say: "Your sullenness is uncalled for and your fierceness
misplaced; Juliet is constant, and the Colonel means you nothing but good"? Perhaps; and perhaps,
too, I should be a saint and know nothing of earthly passions and jealousies. But I am not.
I hate this Orrin, hate him more and more as every step brings us nearer to Juliet's house
and the fate awaiting him from her weakness and the Colonel's generosity. So I hold my peace
and we come to her gate, and the recklessness that has brought him thus far abandons him on
the instant and he falls back and lets me go in several steps before him, so that I seem to
be alone when I enter the house, and Juliet, who is standing in the parlor between the Colonel
and her father, starts when she sees me, and breaking into sobs, cries:

"Oh, Philo, Philo, tell my father there is nothing between us but what is friendly and honorable;
that I--I--"

"Hush!" commanded that father, while I stared at the Colonel, whose quiet, imperturbable face
was for the first time such a riddle to me that I hardly heeded what the elder man said. "You
have talked enough, Juliet, and denied enough. I will now speak to Mr. Adams and see what he
has to say. Last night my daughter, who, as all the town knows, is betrothed to this gentleman"--and
he waved his hand deferentially towards the Colonel--"was detected by me stealing out of the
garden gate with a little packet on her arm. As my daughter never goes out alone, I was naturally
startled, and presuming upon my rights as her father, naturally asked her where she was going.
This question, simple as it was, seemed to both terrify and unnerve her. Stumbling back, she
looked me wildly in the eye and answered, with an effrontery she had never shown me before,
that she was flying to escape a hated marriage. That Colonel Schuyler had returned, and as
she could not be his wife, she was going to her aunt's house, where she could live in peace
without being forced upon a man she could not love. Amazed, for I had always supposed her duly
sensible of the honor which had been shown her by this gentleman's attentions, I drew her into
my study and there, pulling off the cloak which she held tightly drawn about her, I discovered
that she was tricked out like a bride, and had a whole bunch of garden roses fastened in her
breast. 'A pretty figure,' cried I, 'for travelling. You are going away with some man, and
it is a runaway match I have interrupted.' She could not deny it, and just then the Colonel
came in and--but we will not talk about that. It remained for us to find out the man who had
led her to forget her duty, and I could think of no man but you. So I ask you now before my
trembling daughter and this outraged gentleman if you are the villain." 

One can easily imagine that it would not have been so careless, self- to betray. It is true that
they had been able not entbrechen, the familiar narrative, which he made her run from his life
to return to narrative of her own, but we doubt very much that they are connected to an equally
scrupulous confidentiality have held. And how do we know that Agathon himself, with all his
frankness, no circumstance have held back from which he might like a good painter or poet, predicted
that he Wuerkung the beautiful of the whole could be a hindrance. Who is us A guarantee that the
seductive priestess did not get over him when he admitted? Has at least some of our readers (who
may have forgotten, that they are not Agathon), the deep indifference seemed a little suspicious,
which him on a certain occasion, irritation, which, in their opinion, in its sheer Description
might lead already, should have left. Shy one may so; Indeed or will so Platonic than one, a
beautiful woman who has made himself the power to examine their irritation to us, even enthusiastic
about the God of love, and what is worse , is a priest - in a so belaurenden position, with such black
eyes, with a beautiful breasts - is undoubtedly quite a dangerous sight for any one who (like Phryne
says) is not a statue: And the poetry would have to have the magical powers do not know what their
been attributed always, if in such a situation, the reading of a scene, Jupiter is like the
seduction by the Belt of Venus in the Iliad, the natural Wuerkungen a so so match any object, not
a strength would have doubled have made. Solo Be that as it may, it is certain that Danae, in
a narration its history, the laws of beauty and decent than the obligations of a specific historical
fidelity taken to their attention, and made no objections, soon a to embellish fact, sometimes
even omit another, as often as special purpose work requires your audience to like it. Because
for these alone, not for the world, told them, and they could say by the strict demands which
the latter (although in vain) to the historian does, not make so much tied. Not that they him any
story of her life to utter mainly concealed or held him invented by the real would have been
deceived. She told him everything. But there are a certain art, the one which could make a
disagreeable impression, from the eyes to remove, and it comes as much on the turn, a single
little fact is an event such a different form from that which they could have done without
this little fact; that without a significant alteration of what constitutes the fabric of the
narrative, a thousand can commit infidelities very important to the historical truth. A consideration,
us (to say in passing), the historian of her own value itself, no Xenophon nor Marcus Antoninus,
and even the open-hearted than Montaigne not yet makes of suspect, than any other class of
historians.

The beautiful and wise words Danae had her lover or her education in Aspasie home nor their acquaintance
with the Alcibiades, the glorious love that they the Prince Cyrus had instilled behavior. All
these and many other is not shining and agencies her story made her either honor or could but
with the skill, which Aspasia was the second they are told in such a way that they made their
honor.

But what affected those places where all art that is on its beautification would like to contact
lost for thought, be it because they in themselves, or in relation on the tastes of our own heroes,
in no kind of garb, or turn light were made: they had decided wisely about this, they, with entire
silence to cover, and thus it happened that our hero still stood in the belief that he himself
was the first, which they favor-by testimony from that manner in which he been overwhelmed
by it was, would have made mandatory. A mistake that in his shrewd Thought-way to his happiness
was so necessary that without it all the perfections of his Lady would be too weak was to keep
him a moment in her bonds. Him to behave this error was the worst prank you his love and the
beautiful Danae was able to play, and to do this was the means by which the sophist at both once
hoped to take a revenge, the mere idea of ​​his evil heart in Erzueckung sat. He laurte to only
a convenient opportunity, and it maintains an evil Projects to avoid rare.

Whether this latter is the bustle of any attribute of an evil demon, or whether it be because the
evil by its nature produces a livelier Wuerksamkeit as the goods are, is a question over which
we have to investigate other. It is the one or the other, so would a very natural consequence
of this almost daily experience-truth be that evil grow in an ever-growing progression, and,
at least in this sublunary world, the good would last swallow to utter, if not from a very so
common experience would be true that the efforts of the evil, so happy, they also in the execution
might be, but commonly fail of its essential purpose, and the Good
measure by the very rules and intrigue, so it should have been prevented,
far better transport than if they had behave quite indifferent here.

CHAPTER TWO

Betrayals of Hippias

Among other properties, which made the character of the estimated Danae, was this, that it was
an excellent friend. Sun indifferent them up to the time since Agathon mastered her heart, against
the charge of inconstancy in love and always have been was, as reliable and steadfast, she
was at all times been in a friendship.

She loved their friends with a tenderness that of people who only
after the outward expression To judge a selfish emotion could easily
be given, for this tenderness rose to the most effective degree of
passion, when it mattered, an unfortunate to make friends services.

It was no pleasure, which they do not in such a case the duties of
friendship would have been sacrificed.

An initiative of this kind (of which the circumstances of our history with no relation are), they
had called a few days of Smyrna. Agathon had to stay behind, and Danae the kind-hearted, happy
with the proofs that you have pain in her farewell His love was sweetened to create their own by the
idea that the short separation give him the value of his bliss to feel much more lively will, as
a continuous Present. Quiet over recommended the possession of his heart to him more zealously,
while the their absence, the delights which could provide the rich and voluptuous Smyrna, about
to leave, the more certainly it was that they get from distractions
like nothing have.

Solo Agathon had already begun to lose the taste for these pleasures. So vivid, so manifold variety,
so intoxicating they may be, they are not yet capable of a Like his mind was to take a long time.
Viewed as a job, can they are only for people that are good for nothing else, and they remain only
as amusements long as they are new. The more vivid they are, the sooner follow saturation and fatigue;
and all their manifold variety is apparent in a continued use of the uniform not hide, so they
finally even the most deserving non-class people in the world disgusting be. The absence of Danae
they behaved completely still the only stimulus they have would have
been for him, the pleasure to see them take part.

He brought so to close in the whole period of absence in a solitude, which occupied him from
the Life at Athens, and the voluptuous idleness at Smyrna had been weaned for several years. Here
it was him at first as those who from a very enlightened place at one time in the dark . Come
His soul was empty because she was too full, he wrote that the absence his girlfriend, and he
felt that he lacked, and had no thought that he is less would have missed if the nerves of his
mind by the habit of a voluptuous Inaction would not have been put to sleep. The first days slipped
for him in a Kind of tender melancholy over, which was not without grace. Danae was almost the
only object with which his soul in himself drawn back focused, or when his memory went back to
previous times when they give them the picture of his psyche, or holding up the shimmering
performances of his Republican life, so it was only to the value of the incomparable Danae and the
quiet bliss of love of a single, dedicated to the friendship, the Muses, the goddesses of
joy and private life in a higher Light set. His love revived again. It spread again this inspiring
Warmth of his nature, which the motives of the heart and imagination power so harmonious makes play
together. He designed the idea of ​​a life-style, which (thanks to his poetic Imagination!) More
the life of God, as a mortal seemed. Danae gleams in it from a sky of smiling images of joy and
bliss out. Delighted by these pleasant dreams, he decided to himself, his fate for ever with
the theirs to unite. He was worthy to make this happy Agathon, which would have been too proud
to accept the shiny happiness from the hands of a king. This Decision, which a thousand other
a very ambiguous test of love would be, was, in fact, to think in his own way, proof that his own,
to the highest degree was increased.

In a for the intentions of Danae as favorable mind-state it was in when Hippias he made a visit in
order to complain about in a friendly way, the loneliness, where he lived since the distance of
the beautiful Danae. Danae was to be peace, said it in a joking tone, the amiable Callias for themselves
to keep only if they presently is, but him to escape in their absence the world that is too much, and
must finally have the result, the most beautiful Smyrna in a general Zusammenverschwoerung to
move against them. Agathon replied to that joke in the same tone, imperceptibly the conversation
was interesting, without a particular intention to the sophist here have appeared. He tried
to prove to his friends that he was wrong, the company to resign in order to confer with the Dryads
of his love, and sighs with the Zephyrs logo and messages to be absent. He painted the colors with
seduction Fun before, that he deprives himself, forgetting even the ridiculous not know which
he give himself by such a strange mood in the eyes of the beautiful. In his opinion, should Callias
in a single and a conquest so shiny they always want to be, not be
satisfied, and he, to give its merits the right his ambitions in this
sphere to set no limits, and the need to appear only to win.

He proved the truth this flattery with the particular claims, which some of the most famous beauties
to Smyrna on made him, after his pretending it was only to Agathon, his vanity, his Curiosity and
his addiction to the pleasure to meet at the same time and on such a manifold to be kind of
happy when the pampered only imagination always wishes.

Agathon had all these beautiful Vorspieglungen only one answer - his love of Danae. The sophist found
inadequate. This same causes which brought about his love for Danae had, it should also make
the irritation of other Schoenen sensitive. In his opinion made by the alternation of the objects
the greater happiness of love. He claimed this sentence by a very lively execution of the special
pleasure that the Defeat of any particular class of Fine was not related. The ignorant and the Versed,
the Spiritual and the stupid, the beautiful and the ugly, the coquette, the Brittle, the virtuous,
the pious - in short, any special character of the Pursuing Taste, imagination, and so even
the senses (because of the heart when he was talk not) in a peculiar way - erfordre another plan,
set against other difficulties, and happy to do a different kind. The end of the designed model
was that it incomprehensible is how so much pleasure in its violence, and it was only a question
may refuse to the monotonous joys of a single, straight in with novelistic loyalty Line continues
slow passion to exhaust to the very dregs.

Agathon admitted that the alternation, for which it aufmuntre Hippias, for an idle libertine very nice may
be, the pastime of this kind of the only business of its Life doing.

He claimed, however, that this kind would have to hear about people never what is the true
love. He then gave himself up all over the enthusiasm of his heart, to make the Hippias a Abschilderung
from that which he from the first sight felt to this hour for the beautiful Danae, describing a
so true, so delicate, such perfect love, spread with such enthusiastic delight in the perfections
his girlfriend, over the sympathy of their souls, and almost deifying bliss, which enjoy it
in their love of, that either the malice of a Hippias or the friendly Hardness of heart had
to have a mentor, to be able to mistake him such a joyous to wrest.

"The irritation is known to the beautiful Danae," said the sophist, "and their merits in this
even pieces of their own sex admitted so general that Lais itself, which has the fame that the
noblest of the Greeks and the princes of foreign Nations to increase the price of their nights
in the bet, would be ridiculous if they wanted to come up to argue with her at the price of
the courtesy. But that they would ever have the honor, so dignified, so metaphysical, so about
all that can be thought to inspire love sublime - that the power
of their irritation later this Was preserved to wonder, what it lacked
even the only - that would have, in fact, no one dreaming can be themselves,
or not to laugh about such an incident.

"

Here was our hero, which the mischievous comparison with the Corinthian Lais already found annoying
to the strangest way, had the patience to utter out. He sat the Sophists with all heat in an
offended the object of his adoration lover because of the ambiguous tone of speech, which he
presume to speak of a person such as Danae; and his indignation as well as his confusion increased
to the extreme degree, as a satyr-temperate Laughter the whole answer of Hippias was.

It is so easy to foresee what had to take an exit this scene that we after all of the intentions of the
Sophist has already been said, the reader of his own imagination can be.


He groaned, perhaps at the secret sarcasm hidden in my tone, and sat down unbidden at the table
where I was writing.

"You did not see her," he cried. "You do not know with what charms she works, when she wishes
to comfort and allure." Ah! did I not. "And Philo," he went on, almost humbly for him, "you
are mistaken if you think she had any hand in the ruin which has come upon me. She had not.
How I know it I cannot say, but I am ready to swear it, and you must forget any foolish fears
I may have shown or any foolish words I may have uttered in the first confusion of my loss
and disappointment."

"I will forget," said I.

"The fact is I do not understand her," he eagerly explained. "There was innocence in her air,
but there was mockery too, and she laughed as I talked of my grief and rage, as though she
thought I was playing a part. It was merry laughter, and there was no ring of falsehood in
it, but why should she laugh at all?"

This was a question I could not answer; who could? Juliet is beyond the comprehension of us all.

"But what is the use of plaguing myself with riddles?" he now asked, starting up as suddenly
as he had sat down. "We are to be married in a month, and the Colonel--I have seen the Colonel--has
promised to dance at our wedding. Will it be in the new stone house? It would be a fitting
end to this comedy if he were to dance in that?"

I thought as Orrin did about this, but with more seriousness perhaps; and it was not till after
he had left me that I remembered I had not asked whom he suspected of firing his house, now
that he was assured of the innocence of her who was most likely to profit by its burning.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Now I understand Juliet!" was the cry with which Orrin burst into my presence late this afternoon.
"Men are saying and women whispering that I destroyed my own house, in order to save myself
the shame of accepting the Colonel's offer while I had a roof of my own." And, burning with
rage, he stamped his foot upon the ground, and shook his hand so threateningly in the direction
of his fancied enemies that I felt some reflection of his anger in my own breast, and said
or tried to say that they could not know him as I did or they would never accuse him of so
mean a deed, whatever else they might bring against him.

"It makes me wild, it makes me mad, it makes me feel like leaving the town forever!" was his
hoarse complaint as I finished my feeble attempt at consolation. "If Juliet were half the woman
she ought to be she would come and live with me in a log-cabin in the woods before she would
accept the Colonel's house now. And to think that she, she should be affected by the opinions
of the rest, and think me so destitute of pride that I would stoop to sacrifice my own home
for the sake of stepping into that of a rival's. O woman, woman, what are you made of? Not
of the same stuff as we men, surely."

I strove to calm him, for he was striding fiercely and impatiently about the room. But at my
first word he burst forth with:

"And her father, who should control her, aids and encourages her follies. He is a slave to
the Colonel, who is the slave of his own will."

"In this case," I quietly observed, "his will seems to be most kindly."

"That is the worst of it," chafed Orrin. "If only he offered me opposition I could struggle
with him. But it is his generosity I hate, and the humiliating position into which it thrusts
me. And that is not all," he angrily added, while still striding feverishly about the room.
"The Colonel seems to think us his property ever since we decided to accept his, and as a miser
watches over his gold so does he watch over us, till I scarcely have the opportunity now of
speaking to Juliet alone. If I go to her house, there he is sitting like a black statue at
the fireplace, and when I would protest, and lead her into another room or into the garden,
he rises and overwhelms me with such courtesies and subtle disquisitions that I am tripped
up in my endeavors, and do not know how to leave or how to stay. I wish he would fall sick,
or his house tumble about his head!"

"Orrin, Orrin!" I cried. But he interrupted my remonstrance with the words:

"It is not decent. I am her affianced husband now, and he should leave us alone. Does he think
I can ever forget that he used to court her once himself, and that the favors she now shows
me were once given as freely, if not as honestly, to him? He knows I cannot forget, and he
delights--"

"There, Orrin," I broke in, "you do him wrong. The Colonel is above your comprehension as he
is above mine; but there is nothing malevolent in him."

"I don't know about that," rejoined his angry rival. "If he wanted to steal back my bride he
could take no surer course for doing it. Juliet, who is fickle as the wind, already looks from
his face to mine as if she were contrasting us. And he is so damned handsome and suave and
self-forgetting!"

"And you," I could not help but say, "are so fierce and sullen even in your love."

"I know it," was his half-muttered retort, "but what can you expect? Do you think I will see
him steal her heart away from before my eyes?"

"It would be but a natural return on his part for your former courtesies," I could not forbear
saying, in my own secret chagrin and soreness of heart.

"But he shall not do it," exclaimed Orrin, with a backward toss of his head, and a sudden thump
of his strong hand on the table before me. "I won her once against all odds, and I will keep
her if I have to don the devil's smiles myself. He shall never again see her eyes rest longer
on his face than mine. I will hold her by the power of my love till he finds himself forgotten,
and for very shame steals away, leaving me with the bride he has himself bestowed upon me.
He shall never have Juliet back."

"I doubt if he wishes to," I quietly remarked, as Orrin, weary with passion, ran from my presence.

I do not know whether Orrin succeeded or not in his attempts to shame the Colonel from intruding
upon his interviews with Juliet. I am only sure that Orrin's countenance smoothed itself after
this day, and that I heard no more complaints of Juliet's wavering fidelity. I myself do not
believe she has ever wavered. Simply because she ought from every stand-point of good judgment
and taste to have preferred the Colonel and clung to him, she will continue to cleave to Orrin
and make him the idol of her wayward heart. But it is all a mystery to me and one that does
not make me very happy.

       *       *       *       *       *

I went up by myself to the new stone house to-day, and found that it only needs the finishing
touches. Twenty workmen or more were there, and the great front door had just been brought
and was leaning against the walls preparatory to being hung. Being curious to see how they
were progressing within, I climbed up to one of the windows and looked in, and not satisfied
with what I could thus see, made my way into the house and up the main staircase, which I was
surprised to see was nearly completed.

The sound of the hammer and saw was all about me, and the calling of orders from above and
below interfered much with any sentimental feelings I might have had. But I was not there to
indulge in sentiment, and so I roamed on from room to room till I suddenly came upon a sight
that drove every consideration of time and place from my mind, and made me for a moment forgetful
of every other sentiment than admiration. This was nothing less than the glimpse which I obtained
in passing one of the windows, of the Colonel himself down on his knees on the scaffolding
aiding the workmen. 

"Where are you, and strive for so eagerly?" I asked one pile, "it is not a market day today in
the city. "

Well, as I knew well in advance, they wanted the witch, the young
man burn Satan, . See

- "But yes, the witch is dead!"

"Of course, the one disappointment is", and supposed it, "but it is our midwife, the old mother
Seventy, her sister, daughter, because we can not and must stay outside
the remains of already take for love.

"-

- And new bands came along, and itzund Dip even cars from the morning mist, today instead of
the grain crop was fully loaded with people .-- I went off about the Heide, although still
ran the night dew from the herb, for my soul longed for the Loneliness, and I saw from afar, as it
seemed the entire village of the way to Pull the city. When I stood on the Huenenhuegel, which
is set amidst the heath, fell over I am, and I would have to go back to the city or etwan left
down to the sea , Or go to the little village that there is down hard on the beach, but in front
of me Air silently pray something like a lucky, like a frantic hope, and it shook my bones, and
my teeth chattered at each other. 'If it really was, so ultimately with my own I Beholding eyes,
and when today - 'I felt my heart like a hammer to the Ribs, and I went to far by the heath,
and I did not want to see if the car an even the preacher to the
city go .-- But I still went at last to his village.

When I had it reaches, I walked hurriedly to the door of the Kuesterhauses. She was closed.
For a while I stood irresolute, and then I began to knock with his
fist.

Inside, all was quiet, but stronger when I knocked, was the sexton
old half-blind Trienke from a neighboring home.

"Where is the coast?" I asked.

-? The coast down with the priest in the city.

"

I stare at the old woman, I felt as if lightning struck through me then.

"Error you something, Mr. painter?" she asked.

I shook my head and said simply: "Today is probably not a school Trienke"

- "Keep The witch is so burned!"

I let myself from the old bridge up the house, took my Malergeraethe and the almost completed
Portrait of the sexton's bedroom, and taught, as usual, my easel in the empty classroom. I am a brush
something from the garments, but I was looking for so that only myself
to lie, I had no use for painting, was indeed come for the sake not
come here.

The old woman ran in, moaning about the wicked time and talked about farming and village matters,
I might understand not; myself have penetrated it, they once again after the preacher wife to
ask whether selbige old or young, and even where they had come, but I brought the No word about
my tongue. In contrast, the old man began long webs of the hex and was their kin here in the village
and the mother seventy, so fraught with Vorspuksehen; tell it well, as selbige at night, as
the gout the old woman left no rest, three Leichhardt sheet about the pastor's house roof was seen flying:
would show such a face at all times correctly, and pride come before the fall, for the pastor's
wife was in all its grandeur but only a pale and sickly creature.

I did not hear such talk henceforth, therefore went out of the house and on the way around, because
where the parish lies with its front against the village street,
turned under anxious longing, my eyes after the windows were white,
but behind the blackened windows not perceive as a few flowers shards,
as can be seen everywhere .-- I would have now Well may repent, but
I went anyway.

When I came to the cemetery, carried by the city side of the wind, a whimpering bell ringers to
my ear, but I turned and looked down to the west, where in turn had passed on the sea like bright
silver at heaven, and was but a raging disaster been there, what a night in the highest hand
many thousands of lives had thrown. What kruemmete I so like a worm - we do not see how his
ways go!

I do not know where my feet carried me back then yet, I only know that I went in a circle, for as the sun
was almost at the zenith, I back Langete the sexton at.

I was not in the classroom at my easel, but by Hinterpfoertlein the back of the house, .--

The
poor little garden is unforgettable for me, although since that day my eyes it is no longer seen .-- Like the
preacher of the house from the other side, it appeared as a broad band coupling in the priests,
in an area between the two but was a tight group Weidenbuesche, which might serve to mount a water
pit, for I once had a maid full bucket from a depth as to rise out of it to see.

When I without much thought, but my mind not to be fulfilled by compelling
unrest at of Kuesters abgeheimseten beans beds went, I heard from
a woman's voice outside of the coupling of even sweet sound, and how
they lovingly winning bids for a child.

I walked to such indignation sounds, so did once the Greek pagan god with his staff have pulled
the dead to himself. Already I was on the far edge of the Holundergebuesches, which will end here
without fencing in the paddock, I saw the little St. John with a
Little arms full of moss as it grows here in the miserable grass,
in front of behind the willows go, and he liked it there angeleget,
as children have a small garden area.

And again came the sweet voice in my ear: "Now only to lift and now you have a whole bunch
of yes, yes! Meanwhile, I search more, there is growing at the elder enough "!

And then she stepped out from behind the willow itself, I had already
not long ago doubted .-- With eyes on the ground searching, she walked
up to me, so I consider it ungestoeret could, and I felt as if they
were like now even strange to the child again, that she had been ,
For which I had had the "Buhz" once shot down from the tree, but the
children face Today was pale and neither luck nor courage to read it.

She was gradually coming closer without my perceive, then she knelt down on one Strip moss, ran
along under the bushes, but their hands were picking them nor shall they let the head drop
to your chest, and it was as if she would only unseen before the child rest in their sorrow.

Then
I called softly, "Catherine!"

She looked up, but I grabbed her hand and drew her like a will-less to me the shadows of the
bushes.

But when I had finally found so now and no word conversant stood
before her, as her eyes looked away from me, and almost a stranger's
voice she said: "It is like that, I knew John well, you were the other
painters, I did not just want you to come today dignity.

"

I heard that, and then I expressed it, "Catherine, - so you're the preacher's wife?"

She nodded no and they gave me a stiff and painful.

"He got the post for it," she said, "and your child an honest name."

- "My child, Catherine?"

"And you felt he has not even been sitting on your lap;?

Once but he himself tell it has me. "

- May no man tear such a chest pain - "And you, you and my child,
her I should be lost!

"

She looked at me, she did not cry, it was only to utter deadly pale.

"I do not want that!" I shouted, "I will ..." And a wild chase my thoughts through Raset Brain.

But
her little hand like a cool leaf was lying on my forehead, and her
brown eyes, stars on the pale face looked at me pleadingly.

"You, John," she said, "You will not be, I still want to do the miserable."

- "And can you live for so Catherine?"

? Life - It's still a lucky here, and he loves the child, - what is
demand for even more "

- "And by us, of what once was, he knows it?"

"No, no!" she cried vehemently. "He took the sinner to the woman. Not more O God, is it because
not enough that each new day angehoert him! "

At this moment a delicate song sounds the over to us .-- "The child,"
she said.

"I have to the child, it could happen to him harm!"

But my sense zieleten only to the woman that she coveted. "Stay," I said, "it making melody so
merry there with his Moose. "

She had come to the edge of the bushes and also listens. The golden autumn sun shone so warm
down, only a slight breeze came up from the lake since we heard from the other side by the pastures,
the voice sound of our child sing:

Two little angels who meet me, two little angels, stretch me, and two BWA, so I have in the heavenly
paradise.

Catherine had resigned, and her eyes looked big and ghostly to me.

"And now Farewell, John, "she said softly," never to return here on earth "!

I wanted to tear at me, I stretched out both arms to her, but they forbid me now and said softly:
"I'm the other man's wife, do not forget it."

I, however, had taken those words to an almost wild rage.

"And whose, Catherine," said I hard, "you have been before until you have become?"

A more painful Klaglaut broke from her breast, her hands suggested that she face and cried.
"Woe is me! Alas, my poor desecrated body!"

Since I became my almost powerless, I suddenly pulled to my chest,
I was like Iron brackets, and they had finally, finally!

And her eyes fell into mine, and her red lips tolerated the mean, we embraced inbruenstiglich,
I would have they kill like it when we can die so would have with each other. And then my Look of
bliss on her face, grazing, and she said, almost suffocated by my kisses: "It is a long and
anxious life Oh Jesus Christ, forgive me for this hour!"

- It was an answer, but it was the harsh voice of the man from whose
lips I now " for the first time heard her name.

The call came from the other side of the preacher garden, and yet
even harder and she cried, "Catherine!"

As the luck was over, with a look of despair she saw in me, then still
as a shadow she was gone.

- As I entered the sexton, even the coast
was back.

He immediately began to Justification of the poor witch persuade me.

"You probably do not think much of it," said he, "otherwise you do not If you were now gone
to the village where the pastor did the peasants and forced their wives to the city. "

I do not have the time to answer, a piercing scream cut the air, I will Leblang him in the ears.

"What,
Kuester was?" I cried.

The man broke a window and listens out, but it was nothing more. "To me God, "he said," it was
a woman who has so screamed, and over there by the priest's belt came. "

By the old Trienke had come in the door. "Well, sir?" she cried to me. "The Leichhardt sheets
have fallen to the pastor's roof!

"

- "What do you mean, Trienke?"

"This is hot, they pull the little St. John pastor just out of the
water."

I pours out of the room and through the garden to the priest coupling, but under the willows
I found only the dark water and traces of wet mud beside it on the grass I .-- thoughtful
me, it was just like saying that I by the white pastor of the little gate in School went. So
I just wanted the house, and then went to meet me.

The large bony man saw no desert, and his eyes were reddened, and the black Hair was tangled
in his face. "What do you want?" he said.

I stare at him, for me is wanting to speak. Yes, what I wanted, anyway?

"I know you!" he continued. "The woman has finally been persuaded all."

That gave me free the tongue. "Where is my child!" I cried.

He said: "These two parents will be drowned."

- "So let me to my
dead child!"

But since I wanted to pass him in the hall, he oppresses
me back. "Woman" said he, "is the body and cries out to God from their
sins. Ye shall not back to her poor soul's salvation! "

What I talked
myself dermal, I forgot almost, but the preacher's words were digging
in my memories. "Hear me!" he said. "So from my heart I hate you,
for which me one day God in his mercy would make you pay, and your
vermuthendlich me too - yet One thing is common .-- itzo Go home and
prepare a panel or canvas! With such Come back tomorrow in the morning
and out of the dead boy's face Malet. Not me or my house, the churches
here, where he briefly ausgelebet be innocent may live, your the Portrait
donate. May it remind people there that before the bony hand of death
everything is Dust! "

I looked at the man who scolded just anterior
the noble art of painting a Buhlweib with the world; But I agreed
that everything should take place.

- At home, however, I was waiting
for a customer, then in my life like a guilt and buses Lightning suddenly
from the darkness lifted, so I link by link the whole chain shine
before me saw.

My brother, whose weak constitution of the heinous
Spectacul, which he now assist Ireland must, was taken hard, his bed
had been investigated. Since I came to him, taught it refers to "I
need to rest for a while," he said by a sheet of the weekly newspaper
in my hand was, "Read this, but as you will see that Mr Gerhardus's
court in foreign hands come Junker Wulf ohn wife and child masses
by a mad dog bite even miserable death, is procedural. "

I grabbed
the hand that held out my brother to me, but there was not much that
I would be staggered. Seemed to me at this horror post, as would spring
open gates of paradise in front of me, but I already saw at the entrance
of the angel are fire sword, and from my heart was screaming again:
O Watchman, watchman, was your call so far - would have this death
We can be the life: now it was just a shock to the others.

I was
sitting on top of my chamber. It was dusk, it was night, I looked
into the eternal Stars, and finally I also tried my camp. But the
refreshment of sleep I was not to reverse. In my excited senses, I
was strangely, as if the church tower Over There moved close to my
window, I felt the Glockenschlaege through the wood of the bed , Roaring
and I while I count them all up all night along. But at last the morning
dawned. The bars on the ceiling still hung like a shadow over me as
I jumped up, and ehbevor the first lark of the stubble grew, I had
allbereits the city in the back.

We were all there; Ralph and Lemuel and the other neighbors, old and young, all except that
chief of mourners, the Colonel; for he was still under the influence of that horror which kept
him enchained in silence, and had not even been sensible enough of the day and its mournful
occasion to rise and go to the window as the long funeral cortege passed his house. We were
all there and the minister had said the words, and Orrin's body had been lowered to its final
rest, when suddenly, as they were about to move Juliet, a tumult was observed in the outskirts
of the crowd, and the Colonel towering in his rage and appalling in his just indignation, fought
his way through the recoiling masses till he stood in our very midst.

"Stop!" he cried, "this burial must not go on." And he advanced his arm above Juliet's body
as if he would intervene his very heart between it and the place of darkness into which it
was about to descend. "She was the victim, he the murderer; they shall not lie together if
I have to fling myself between them in the grave which you have dug."

"But--but," interposed the minister, calm and composed even in the face of this portentous
figure and the appalling words which it had uttered, "by what right do you call this one a
murderer and the other a victim? Did you see him murder her? Was there a crime enacted before
your eyes?"

"The boards were sawn," was the startling answer. "They must have been sawn or they would never
have given way beneath so light a weight. And then he urged her--I saw him--pleaded with her,
drew her by force of eye and hand to step upon the scaffold without, though there was no need
for it, and she recoiled. And when her light foot was on it and her half-smiling, half-timid
face looked back upon us, he leaped out beside her, when instantly came the sound of a great
crack, and I heard his laugh and her cry go up together, and--and--everything has been midnight
in my soul ever since, till suddenly through the blank and horror surrounding me I caught the
words, 'They will lie together in one tomb!' Then--then I awoke and my voice came back to me
and my memory, and hither I hastened to stop this unhallowed work; for to lay the victim beside
her murderer is a sacrilege which I for one would come back even from the grave to prevent."

"But why," moaned the father feebly amid the cries and confusion which had been aroused by
so gruesome an interference on the brink of the grave, "but why should Orrin wish my Juliet's
death? They were to have been married soon--"

But piteous as were his tones no one listened, for just then a lad who had been hiding behind
the throng stepped out before us, showing a face so white and a manner so perturbed that we
all saw that he had something to say of importance in this matter.

"The boards have been sawn," he said. "I wanted to know and I climbed up to see." At which
words the whole crowd moved and swayed, and a dozen hands stooped to lift the body of Juliet
and carry it away from that accursed spot.

But the minister is a just man and cautious, and he lifted up his arms in such protest that
they paused.

"Who knows," he suggested, "that it was Orrin's hand which handled the saw?"

And then I perceived that it was time for me to speak. So I raised my voice and told my story,
and as I told it the wonder grew on every face and the head of each man slowly drooped till
we all stood with downcast eyes. For crime had never before been amongst us or soiled the honor
of our goodly town. Only the Colonel still stood erect; and as the vision of his outstretched
arm and flaming eyes burned deeper and deeper into my consciousness, I stammered in my speech
and then sobbed, and was the first to lift the silent form of the beauteous dead and bear it
away from the spot denounced by one who had done so much for her happiness and had met with
such a bitter and heart-breaking reward.

And where did we finally lay her? In that spot--ah! why does my blood run chill while I write
it--where she stood when she took that oath to the Colonel, whose breaking caused her death.

A few words more and this record must be closed forever. That night, when all was again quiet
in the village and the mourners no longer went about the streets, Lemuel, Ralph, and I went
for a final visit to the new stone house. It showed no change, that house, and save for the
broken scaffolding above gave no token of its having been the scene of such a woful tragedy.
But as we looked upon it from across its gruesome threshold Lemuel said:

"It is a goodly structure and nigh completed, but the hand that began it will never finish
it, nor will man or woman ever sleep within its walls. The place is accursed, and will stand
accursed till it is consumed by God's lightning or falls piecemeal to the ground from natural
decay. Though its stones are fresh, I see ruin already written upon its walls."

It was a strong statement, and we did not believe it, but when we got back to the village we
were met by one who said:

"The Colonel has stopped the building of the new house. 'It is to be an everlasting monument,'
he says, 'to a rude man's pride and a sweet woman's folly.'"

Will it be a monument that he will love to gaze upon? I wot not, or any other man who remembers
Juliet's loveliness and the charm it gave to our village life for one short year.

       *       *       *       *       *

What was it that I said about this record being at an end? Some records do not come to an end,
and though twenty years have passed since I wrote the above, I have cause this day to take
these faded leaves from their place and add a few lines to the story of the Colonel's new house.

It is an old house now, old and desolate. As Lemuel said--he is one of our first men--it is
accursed and no one has ever felt brave enough or reckless enough to care to cross again its
ghostly threshold. Though I never heard any one say it is haunted, there are haunting memories
enough surrounding it for one to feel a ghastly recoil from invading precincts defiled by such
a crime. So the kindly forest has taken it into its protection, and Nature, who ever acts the
generous part, has tried to throw the mantle of her foliage over the decaying roof, and about
the lonesome walls, accepting what man forsakes and so fulfilling her motherhood.

I am still a resident in the town, and I have a family now that has outgrown the little cottage
which the apple-tree once guarded. But it is not to tell of them or of myself that I have taken
these pages from their safe retreat to-day, but to speak of the sight which I saw this morning
when I passed through the churchyard, as I often do, to pluck a rose from the bush which we
lads planted on Juliet's grave twenty years ago. They always seem sweeter to me than other
roses, and I take a superstitious delight in them, in which my wife, strange to say, does not
participate. But that is neither here nor there.

The sight which I thought worth recording was this: I had come slowly through the yard, for
the sunshine was brilliant and the month June, and sad as the spot is, it is strangely beautiful
to one who loves nature, when as I approached the corner where Juliet lies, and which you will
remember was in the very spot where I once heard her take her reluctant oath, I saw crouched
against her tomb a figure which seemed both strange and vaguely familiar to me. Not being able
to guess who it was, as there is now nobody in town who remembers her with any more devotion
than myself, I advanced with sudden briskness, when the person I was gazing upon rose, and
turning towards me, looked with deeply searching and most certainly very wretched eyes into
mine. I felt a shock, first of surprise, and then of wildest recollection. The man before me
was the Colonel, and the grief apparent in his face and disordered mien showed that years of
absence had not done their work, and that he had never forgotten the arch and brilliant Juliet.

Bowing humbly and with a most reverent obeisance, for he was still the great man of the county,
though he had not been in our town for years, I asked his pardon for my intrusion, and then
drew back to let him pass. But he stopped and gave me a keen look, and speaking my name, said:
"You are married, are you not?" And when I bowed the meek acquiescence which the subject seemed
to demand, he sighed as I thought somewhat bitterly, and shrugging his shoulders, went thoughtfully
by and left me standing on the green sward alone. But when he had reached the gate he turned
again, and without raising his voice, though the distance between us was considerable, remarked:
"I have come back to spend my remaining days in the village of my birth. If you care to talk
of old times, come to the house at sunset. You will find me sitting on the porch."

Gratified more than I ever expected to be by a word from him, I bowed my thanks and promised
most heartily to come. And that was the end of our first interview.

It has left me with very lively sensations. Will they be increased or diminished by the talk
he has promised me?

       *       *       *       *       *

I had a pleasant hour with the Colonel, but we did not talk of her. Had I expected to? I judge
so by the faint but positive disappointment which I feel.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have been again to the Colonel's, but this time I did not find him in. "He is much out evenings,"
explained the woman who keeps house for him, "and you will have to come early to see him at
his own hearth."

       *       *       *       *       *

What is there about the Colonel that daunts me? He seems friendly, welcomes my company, and
often hands me the hospitable glass. But I am never easy in his presence, though the distance
between us is not so great as it was in our young days, now that I have advanced in worldly
prosperity and he has stood still. Is it that his intellect cows me, or do I feel too much
the secret melancholy which breathes through all his actions, and frequently cuts short his
words? I cannot answer; I am daunted by him and I am fascinated, and after leaving him think
only of the time when I shall see him again.

       *       *       *       *       *

The children, who have grown up since the Colonel has been gone, seem very shy of him. I have
noted them more than once shrink away from his path, huddling and whispering in a corner, and
quite forgetting to play as long as his shadow fell across the green or the sound of his feet
could be heard on the turf. I think they fear his melancholy, not understanding it. Or perhaps
some hint of his sorrows has been given them, and it is awe they feel rather than fear. However
that may be, no child ever takes his hand or prattles to him of its little joys or griefs;
and this in itself makes him look solitary, for we are much given in this town to merry-making
with our little ones, and it is a common sight to see old and young together on the green,
making sport with ball or battledore.

And it is not the children only who hold him in high but distant respect. The best men here
are contented with a courteous bow from him, while the women--matrons now, who once were blushing
maidens--think they have shown him enough honor if they make him a deep curtsey and utter a
mild "Good-morrow."

The truth is, he invites nothing more. He talks to me because he must talk to some one, but
our conversation is always of things outside of our village life, and never by any chance of
the place or any one in it. He lives at his father's house, now his, and has for his sole companion
an old servant of the family, who was once his nurse, and who is, I believe, the only person
in the world who is devotedly attached to him.

Unless it is myself. Sometimes I think I love him; sometimes I think I do not. He fascinates
me, and could make me do most anything he pleased, but have I a real affection for him? Almost;
and this is something which I consider strange.

       *       *       *       *       *

Where does the Colonel go evenings? His old nurse has asked me, and I find I cannot answer.
Not to the tavern, for I am often there; not to the houses of the neighbors, for none of them
profess to know him. Where then? Is the curiosity of my youth coming back to me? It looks very
much like it, Philo, very much like it.

       *       *       *       *       *

My daughter said to me to-day: "Father, do not go any more to the Colonel's." And when I asked
her why, she answered that her lover--she has a lover, the minx--had told her that the Colonel
held secret talks with the witches, and though I laughed at this, it has set me thinking. He
goes to the forest at night, and roams for hours among its shadows. Is this a healthy occupation
for a man, especially a man with a history? I shall go early to the Schuyler homestead to-night
and stay late, for these midnight communings with nature may be the source of the hideous gloom
which I have observed of late is growing upon his spirits. No other duty seems to me now greater
than this, to win him back to a healthy realization of life, and the need there is of looking
cheerfully upon such blessings as are left to our lot.

       *       *       *       *       *

I went to the Colonel's at early candle-light, and I stayed till ten, a late hour for me, and,
as I hoped, for him. When I left I caught a sight of old Hannah, standing in a distant hallway,
and I thought she looked grateful; at all events, she came forward very quickly after my departure,
for I heard the key turn in the lock of the great front door before I had passed out of the gate.

Why did I not go home? I had meant to, and there was every reason why I should. But I had no
sooner felt the turf under my feet and seen the stars over my head, than I began to wander
in the very opposite direction, and that without any very definite plan or purpose. I think
I was troubled, and if not troubled, restless, and yet movement did not seem to help me, for
I grew more uneasy with every step I took, and began to look towards the woods to which I was
half unconsciously tending as if there I should find relief just as the Colonel, perhaps, was
in the habit of doing. Was it a mere foolish freak which had assailed me, or was I under some
uncanny influence, caught from the place where I had been visiting?

I was yet asking myself this, when I heard distinctly through the silence of the night the
sound of a footstep behind me, and astonished that any one else should have been beguiled at
this hour into a walk so dreary, I slipped into the shadow of a tree that stood at the wayside
and waited till the slowly advancing figure should pass and leave me free to pursue my way
or to go back unnoticed and undisturbed.

I had not long to wait. In a moment a weirdly muffled form appeared abreast of me, and it was
with difficulty I suppressed a cry, for it was the Colonel I saw, escaped, doubtless, from
his old nurse's surveillance, and as he passed he groaned, and the sad sound coming through
the night at a time when my own spirits were in no comfortable mood affected me with almost
a superstitious power, so that I trembled where I stood and knew not whether to follow him
or go back and seek the cheer of my own hearth. But I decided in another moment to follow him,
and when he had withdrawn far enough up the road not to hear the sound of my footfalls, I stepped
out from my retreat and went with him into the woods.

I have been as you know a midnight wanderer in that same place many a time in my life; but
never did I leave the fields and meadows with such a foreboding dread, or step into the clustering
shadows of the forest with such a shrinking and awe-struck heart. Yet I went on without a pause
or an instant of hesitation, for I knew now where he was going, and if he were going to the
old stone house I was determined to be his companion, or at least his watcher. For I knew now
that I loved him and could never see him come to ill.

There was no moon at this time, but the sound of his steps guided me and when I had come into
the open place where the stars shone I saw by the movement which took place in the shadows
lying around the open door of the old house, that he was near the fatal threshold and would
in another moment be across it and within those mouldy halls. That I was right, another instant
proved, for suddenly through the great hollow of the open portal a mild gleam broke and I saw
he had lighted a lantern and was moving about within the empty rooms.

Softly as man could go, I followed him. Crouching in the doorway, with ear turned to the emptiness
within, I listened. And as I did so, I felt the chill run through my blood and stiffen the
hair on my head, for he was talking as he walked, and his tones were affable and persuasive,
as if two ghosts roamed noiselessly at his side and he were showing them as in the days of
yore, the beauties of his nearly completed home.

"An ample parlor, you see," came in distinct, suave monotone to my ear. "Room enough for many
a couple on gala nights, as even sweet Mistress Juliet will say. Do you like this fireplace,
and will there be space enough here for the portrait which Lawrence has promised to make of
young Madam Day? I do not like too much light myself, so I have ordered curtains to be hung
here. But if Mistress Juliet prefers the sunshine, we will tell the men nay, for all is to
be according to your will, fair lady, as you must know, being here. Pardon me, that was an
evil step; you should have a quick eye for such mishaps, friend Orrin, and not leave it to
my courtesy to hold out a helping hand. Ah! you like this dusky nook. It was made for a sweet
young bride to hide in when her heart's fulness demands quiet and rest. Do the trees come too
near the lattice? If so they shall be trimmed away. And this dining-parlor--Can you judge of
it with the floor half laid and its wainscoting unnailed? I trow not, but you can trust me,
pretty Juliet, you can trust me; and Orrin, too, need not speak, for me to know just how to
finish this study for him. Up-stairs? You do not wish to go up-stairs? Ah, then, you miss the
very cream of the house. I have worked with my own hand upon the rooms up-stairs, and there
is a little Cupid wrought into the woodwork of a certain door which I greatly wish you to pass
an opinion upon. I think the wings lack airiness, but the workmen swear it is as if he would
fly from the door at a whisper. Come, Mistress Juliet; come, friend Orrin, if I lead the way
you need not hesitate. Come! come!"

Was he alone? Were those eager steps of his unaccompanied, and should I not behold, if I looked
within, the blooming face of Juliet and the frowning brows of Orrin, crowding close behind
him as he moved? The fancy invoked by his words was so vivid, that for a moment I thought I
should, and I never shall forget the thrill which seized me as I leaned forward and peered
for one minute into the hall and saw there his solitary figure pausing on the lower step of
the stairs, with that bend of the body which bespeaks an obeisance which is half homage and
half an invitation. He was still talking, and as he went up, he looked back smiling and gossiping
over his shoulder in a smooth and courtly way which made it impossible for me to withdraw my
fascinated eyes.

"No banisters, sweet Juliet? Not yet--not yet; but Orrin will protect you from falling. No
harm can come to you while he is at your side. Do you admire this sweep to the stairs? I saw
a vision when I planned it, of a pretty woman coming down at the sound of her husband's step.
The step has changed in sound to my imagination, but the pretty woman is prettier than ever,
and will look her best as she comes down these stairs. Oh, that is a window-ledge for flowers.
A honeymoon is nothing without flowers, and you must have forget-me-nots and pansies here till
one cannot see from the window. You do not like such humble flowers? Fie! Mistress Juliet,
it is hard to believe that,--even Orrin doubts it, as I see by his chiding air."

Here the gentle and bantering tones ceased, for he had reached the top of the stair. But in
another moment I heard them again as he passed from room to room, pausing here and pausing
there, till suddenly he gave a cheerful laugh, spoke her name in most inviting accents, and
stepped into that room.

Then as if roused into galvanic action, I rose and followed, going up those midnight stairs
and gaining the door where he had passed as if the impulse moving me had lent to my steps a
certainty which preserved me from slipping even upon that dank and dangerous ascent. When in
view of him again, I saw, as I had expected, that he was drawn up by the window and was bowing
and beckoning with even more grace and suavity than he had shown below. "Will you not step
out, Mistress Juliet?" he was saying; "I have a plan which I am anxious to submit to your judgment
and which can only be decided upon from without. A high step true, but Orrin has lifted you
over worse places and--and you will do me a great favor if only--" Here he gave a malignant
shriek, and his countenance, from the most smiling and benignant expression, altered into that
of a fiend from hell. "Ha, ha, ha!" he yelled. "She goes, and he is so fearful for her that
he leaps after. That is a goodly stroke! Both--both--Crack! Ah, she looks at me, she looks--"

Silence and then a frozen figure crouching before my eyes, just the silence and just the figure
I remembered seeing there twenty years before, only the face is older and the horror, if anything,
greater. What did it mean? I tried to think, then as the full import of the scene burst upon
me, and I realized that it was a murderer I was looking upon, and that Orrin, poor Orrin, had
been innocent, I sank back and fell upon the floor, lost in the darkness of an utter unconsciousness.

I did not come to myself for hours; when I did I found myself alone in the old house.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nothing was ever done to the Colonel, for when I came to tell my story the doctors said that
the facts I related did not prove him to have been guilty of crime, as his condition was such
that his own words could not be relied upon in a matter on which he had brooded more or less
morbidly for years. So now when I see him pass through the churchyard or up and down the village
street and note that he is affable as ever when he sees me, but growing more and more preoccupied
with his own thoughts I do not know whether to look upon him with execration or profoundest
pity, nor can any man guide me or satisfy my mind as to whether I should blame his jealousy
or Orrin's pride for the pitiful tragedy which once darkened my life, and turned our pleasant
village into a desert.

Of one thing only have I been made sure; that it was the Colonel who lit the brand which fired
Orrin's cottage.

A MEMORABLE NIGHT.

CHAPTER I.

I am a young physician of limited practice and great ambition. At the time of the incidents
I am about to relate, my office was in a respectable house in Twenty-fourth Street, New York
City, and was shared, greatly to my own pleasure and convenience, by a clever young German
whose acquaintance I had made in the hospital, and to whom I had become, in the one short year
in which we had practised together, most unreasonably attached. I say unreasonably, because
it was a liking for which I could not account even to myself, as he was neither especially
prepossessing in appearance nor gifted with any too great amiability of character. He was,
however, a brilliant theorist and an unquestionably trustworthy practitioner, and for these
reasons probably I entertained for him a profound respect, and as I have already said a hearty
and spontaneous affection.

As our specialties were the same, and as, moreover, they were of a nature which did not call
for night-work, we usually spent the evening together. But once I failed to join him at the
office, and it is of this night I have to tell.

I had been over to Orange, for my heart was sore over the quarrel I had had with Dora, and
I was resolved to make one final effort towards reconciliation. But alas for my hopes, she
was not at home; and, what was worse, I soon learned that she was going to sail the next morning
for Europe. This news, coming as it did without warning, affected me seriously, for I knew
if she escaped from my influence at this time, I should certainly lose her forever; for the
gentleman concerning whom we had quarrelled, was a much better match for her than I, and almost
equally in love. However, her father, who had always been my friend, did not look upon this
same gentleman's advantages with as favorable an eye as she did, and when he heard I was in
the house, he came hurrying into my presence, with excitement written in every line of his
fine face.

"Ah, Dick, my boy," he exclaimed joyfully, "how opportune this is! I was wishing you would
come, for, do you know, Appleby has taken passage on board the same steamer as Dora, and if
he and she cross together, they will certainly come to an understanding, and that will not
be fair to you, or pleasing to me; and I do not care who knows it!"

I gave him one look and sank, quite overwhelmed, into the seat nearest me. Appleby was the
name of my rival, and I quite agreed with her father that the tête-à-têtes afforded by an ocean
voyage would surely put an end to the hopes which I had so long and secretly cherished.

"Does she know he is going? Did she encourage him?" I stammered.

But the old man answered genially: "Oh, she knows, but I cannot say anything positive about
her having encouraged him. The fact is, Dick, she still holds a soft place in her heart for
you, and if you were going to be of the party--"

"Well?"

"I think you would come off conqueror yet."

"Then I will be of the party," I cried. "It is only six now, and I can be in New York by seven.
That gives me five hours before midnight, time enough in which to arrange my plans, see Richter,
and make everything ready for sailing in the morning."

"Dick, you are a trump!" exclaimed the gratified father. "You have a spirit I like, and if
Dora does not like it too, then I am mistaken in her good sense. But can you leave your patients?"

"Just now I have but one patient who is in anything like a critical condition," I replied,
"and her case Richter understands almost as well as I do myself. I will have to see her this
evening of course and explain, but there is time for that if I go now. The steamer sails at nine?"

"Precisely."

"Do not tell Dora that I expect to be there; let her be surprised. Dear girl, she is quite
well, I hope?"

"Yes, very well; only going over with her aunt to do some shopping. A poor outlook for a struggling
physician, you think. Well, I don't know about that; she is just the kind of a girl to go from
one extreme to another. If she once loves you she will not care any longer about Paris fashions."

"She shall love me," I cried, and left him in a great hurry, to catch the first train for Hoboken.

It seemed wild, this scheme, but I determined to pursue it. I loved Dora too much to lose her,
and if three weeks' absence would procure me the happiness of my life, why should I hesitate
to avail myself of the proffered opportunity. I rode on air as the express I had taken shot
from station to station, and by the time I had arrived at Christopher Street Ferry my plans
were all laid and my time disposed of till midnight.

It was therefore with no laggard step I hurried to my office, nor was it with any ordinary
feelings of impatience that I found Richter out; for this was not his usual hour for absenting
himself and I had much to tell him and many advices to give. It was the first balk I had received
and I was fuming over it, when I saw what looked like a package of books lying on the table
before me, and though it was addressed to my partner, I was about to take it up, when I heard
my name uttered in a tremulous tone, and turning, saw a man standing in the doorway, who, the
moment I met his eye, advanced into the room and said:

"O doctor, I have been waiting for you an hour. Mrs. Warner has been taken very bad, sir, and
she prays that you will not delay a moment before coming to her. It is something serious I
fear, and she may have died already, for she would have no one else but you, and it is now
an hour since I left her."

"And who are you?" I asked, for though I knew Mrs. Warner well--she is the patient to whom
I have already referred--I did not know her messenger.

"I am a servant in the house where she was taken ill."

"Then she is not at home?"

"No, sir, she is in Second Avenue."

"I am very sorry," I began, "but I have not the time--"

But he interrupted eagerly: "There is a carriage at the door; we thought you might not have
your phaeton ready."

I had noticed the carriage.

"Very well," said I. "I will go, but first let me write a line--"

"O sir," the man broke in pleadingly, "do not wait for anything. She is really very bad, and
I heard her calling for you as I ran out of the house."

"She had her voice then?" I ventured, somewhat distrustful of the whole thing and yet not knowing
how to refuse the man, especially as it was absolutely necessary for me to see Mrs. Warner
that night and get her consent to my departure before I could think of making further plans.

So, leaving word for Richter to be sure and wait for me if he came home before I did, I signified
to Mrs. Warner's messenger that I was ready to go with him, and immediately took a seat in
the carriage which had been provided for me. The man at once jumped up on the box beside the
driver, and before I could close the carriage door we were off, riding rapidly down Seventh Avenue.

As we went the thought came, "What if Mrs. Warner will not let me off!" But I dismissed the
fear at once, for this patient of mine is an extremely unselfish woman, and if she were not
too ill to grasp the situation, would certainly sympathize with the strait I was in and consent
to accept Richter's services in place of my own, especially as she knows and trusts him.

When the carriage stopped it was already dark and I could distinguish little of the house I
entered, save that it was large and old and did not look like an establishment where a man
servant would be likely to be kept.

"Is Mrs. Warner here?" I asked of the man who was slowly getting down from the box.

"Yes, sir," he answered quickly; and I was about to ring the bell before me, when the door
opened and a young German girl, courtesying slightly, welcomed me in, saying:

"Mrs. Warner is up-stairs, sir; in the front room, if you please."

Not doubting her, but greatly astonished at the barren aspect of the place I was in, I stumbled
up the faintly lighted stairs before me and entered the great front room. It was empty, but
through an open door at the other end I heard a voice saying: "He has come, madam"; and anxious
to see my patient, whose presence in this desolate house I found it harder and harder to understand,
I stepped into the room where she presumably lay.

Alas! for my temerity in doing so; for no sooner had I crossed the threshold than the door
by which I had entered closed with a click unlike any I had ever heard before, and when I turned
to see what it meant, another click came from the opposite side of the room, and I perceived,
with a benumbed sense of wonder, that the one person whose somewhat shadowy figure I had encountered
on entering had vanished from the place, and that I was shut up alone in a room without visible
means of egress.

This was startling, and hard to believe at first, but after I had tried the door by which I
had entered and found it securely locked, and then bounding to the other side of the room,
tried the opposite one with the same result, I could not but acknowledge I was caught. What
did it mean? Caught, and I was in haste, mad haste. Filling the room with my cries, I shouted
for help and a quick release, but my efforts were naturally fruitless, and after exhausting
myself in vain I stood still and surveyed, with what equanimity was left me, the appearance
of the dreary place in which I had thus suddenly become entrapped.

CHAPTER II.

It was a small square room, and I shall not soon forget with what a foreboding shudder I observed
that its four blank walls were literally unbroken by a single window, for this told me that
I was in no communication with the street, and that it would be impossible for me to summon
help from the outside world. The single gas jet burning in a fixture hanging from the ceiling
was the only relief given to the eye in the blank expanse of white wall that surrounded me;
while as to furniture, the room could boast of nothing more than an old-fashioned black-walnut
table and two chairs, the latter cushioned, but stiff in the back and generally dilapidated
in appearance. The only sign of comfort about me was a tray that stood on the table, containing
a couple of bottles of wine and two glasses. The bottles were full and the glasses clean, and
to add to this appearance of hospitality a box of cigars rested invitingly near, which I could
not fail to perceive, even at the first glance, were of the very best brand.

Astonished at these tokens of consideration for my welfare, and confounded by the prospect
which they offered of a lengthy stay in this place, I gave another great shout; but to no better
purpose than before. Not a voice answered, and not a stir was heard in the house. But there
came from without the faint sound of suddenly moving wheels, as if the carriage which I had
left standing before the door had slowly rolled away. If this were so, then was I indeed a
prisoner, while the moments so necessary to my plans, and perhaps to the securing of my whole
future happiness, were flying by like the wind. As I realized this, and my own utter helplessness,
I fell into one of the chairs before me in a state of perfect despair. Not that any fears for
my life were disturbing me, though one in my situation might well question if he would ever
again breathe the open air from which he had been so ingeniously lured. I did not in that first
moment of utter downheartedness so much as inquire the reason for the trick which had been
played upon me. No, my heart was full of Dora, and I was asking myself if I were destined to
lose her after all, and that through no lack of effort on my part, but just because a party
of thieves or blackmailers had thought fit to play a game with my liberty.

It could not be; there must be some mistake about it; it was some great joke, or I was the
victim of a dream, or suffering from some hideous nightmare. Why, only a half hour before I
was in my own office, among my own familiar belongings, and now--But, alas, it was no delusion.
Only four blank, whitewashed walls met my inquiring eyes, and though I knocked and knocked
again upon the two doors which guarded me on either side, hollow echoes continued to be the
only answer I received.

Had the carriage then taken away the two persons I had seen in this house, and was I indeed
alone in its great emptiness? They drive your game us. Actually,
believe it gradsowenig like us, but you want to do something interesting and have an idea
that is unusual similarities suggest the upward direction better. In higher careers will be
no ordinary man. And when you plan something, you have This striking what is selected and
fell on the occasion of the ghost '. "

Effi did not say what the Major was last depressing.

"You are silent, madam."

"Yes."

"May I ask why? I have initiated the creation? Or find it unchivalrous, an absent Friend, I must
admit, despite all protestations to pant a little bit? But since do me in spite of all injustice.
All this is entirely his continued unabashed in front of his Ears,
and I will repeat it every word I have now told you.

"

"Believe it." And now, Effi broke her silence and told them what happened to her, everything
in her house and particularly how to Innstetten had back then to do so. "He did not say yes
and no no, and I'm not wise become of him. "

"So all the old," laughed Crampas.

"So it was back then even when we in Liancourt and Later in Beauvais with him were in quarters.
He lived there in an old Episcopal Palace - incidentally, you might
be interested, there was a Bishop of Beauvais, Fortunately, 'Cochon'
by name, who condemned Joan of Arc at the stake - And as passed because
not a day that is not a night where Innstetten not experienced incredible
had.

Of course only as it could be anything halfway.

And works on this principle He still, I see. "

"Good, good. And now a serious word, Crampas end, I ask me a serious answer: How do you explain
all this? "

"Yes, madame ..."

"No evasions, Major. All this is very important to me. He is your
friend, and I am your friend.

I want to know is how this together? What does he think about this? "

"Yes, madame, God sees the heart, but a Major of militia district
headquarters, who sees nothing.

How can I solve this psychological puzzle? I am a simple Man "

"Oh, Crampas, do not talk so foolish. I'm too young to be a great connoisseur of human to be, but
I would have before the consecration, and almost in front of baptism in order for you to give
a simple man. They are the opposite of that, you are dangerous ... "

"The most flattering, to say what a good forties with a retired on
the map can.

And now what is Innstetten thinks ... "

Effi nodded.

"Yes, if I talk to quite, he thinks it proves that a man like Baron Innstetten District, may
be the Secretary or the like every day (because believe me, he is high up) that a man like Baron
Innstetten can not live in an ordinary home, not in such a Kate, as the landrätliche apartment,
I beg your pardon, my dear Woman, but actually is. Because it helps to then. A haunted house
is never what the ordinary ... That's the one. "

"That one? My God, do you have anything? "Yes."

"Well, I'm all ears. But if it can be, let's be a good thing. "

"Meanwhile, I'm not sure.

It is somewhat awkward, almost daring, and most in front of your
ears, dear lady.

"

"That makes me all the more curious."

"Very well. Innstetten So, most gracious woman, except his burning desire, it cost what it may, indeed,
if need be, by reference to a haunting, his career make a second passion: it operates that is
always educational, is a born educators would, and left and right Basedow Pestalozzi (but
church as both) actually after Schnepfenthal Bunzlau executed or fit. "

And he wants to educate me? Educate by spook? "

"Educating is perhaps not the right word. But raise it on a detour. "

"I do not understand you."

"A young woman is a young woman, and a district administrator is a district administrator. He often
drove Circles around, and then the house alone and empty.

But such haunting is like a cherub with the sword ... "

"Ah, there we are" out of the woods, "said Effi.

"And there is Utpatels mill. We need to pass only at the cemetery. "

Right after they passed the ravine between the churchyard and the eingegitterten place Effi and
watched the stone and fir over to where the Chinese were.

Chapter Seventeen

The clock struck two, when you were back. Crampas took leave and rode into the city, until he
stopped in front of his apartment located on the marketplace. Effi turn around and dressed tried to
sleep, but it would not go, because her mood was even greater as
their fatigue.

That Innstetten to his ghost was ready for this extraordinary to live in house, go to the
might, true to his propensity to propagate from the large amount to distinguish, but the others
that he needed the ghost as a means of education, that was arg and almost insulting. And "means
of education, it said it was clear, only the smaller half, what was meant Crampas was much, much
more, was a kind of fishing apparatus from calculus. It lacked any goodness in it and almost bordered
on cruelty.

The blood rose to her head and she clenched her little hand and wanted to make plans, but with a Times
she had to laugh again. "I'm a child's head! Who vouches for me for the fact that Crampas is right!
Crampas is entertaining because he is medisant, but he is unreliable and a mere Haselant, eventually
Innstetten not enough water. "

At that moment drove Innstetten who came back earlier today than usual. Effi sprang on to him already
to be welcomed in the hall, and was so tender, the more they felt
make up something to have.

But all she could to what Crampas had said, not get over yet; and
in the midst of her tenderness and while she listened with apparent
interest, sound it into her again and again: "So spook out of calculation,
Spooky, to keep you in order."

However, she forgot last's and was at ease about him.

Meanwhile, the middle of November arrived, and until the storm was
enhancing the northwest was one and a half days as hard on the piers,
that the more and more pent Kessine the bulwark of rose and stood
in the streets.

But once off steam's, put the Storm, and there were a few sunny autumn
days.

"Who knows how long they last," said Effi Crampas, and so it was decided
the next morning ride out again, also Innstetten, who had a free day
and wanted to use.

It should first go back to the pier, since you then wanted to stay a little stroll on the beach
and finally in the protection of the dunes, where it was windy, take
a breakfast.

To the appointed hour before the landrätlichen Crampas rode home front; Kruse was already the
horse of the lady who picked up quickly in the saddle and still in the ascendant Innstetten
apologized, but now is the prevention of: Last night, another big
fire in Morgenitz - the third for three weeks, so created - because
he had hingemußt, much to his chagrin, for he had on this ride, probably
the last one will be this fall, really happy.

Crampas expressed his regret, perhaps, to say something, but perhaps
sincerely, because he was so ruthless in points chivalrous love of
adventure, much as he was again good comrade.

Of course, all very superficial. Help a friend and five minutes later cheat him, those were the
things that was consistent with his concept of honor indeed. He did
this one and the other with incredible bonhomie.

The ride as usual, went out through the plantation. Rollo was again
preceded by, then came Crampas and efficiency, then Kruse.

Knut was missing.

"Where you have let Knut?" He has a mumps. "

"Strange," laughed Effi. "Actually, he has always looked like this."

"Very true. But you should see him now! Or rather not.

Mumps is contagious already exposed by sight.

"

"I believe not."

"Young women think many do not."

"And then again they believe much of what they felt no better."

"To my address?" No. "

"Too bad."

"How this 'shame' She dresses.

I really think, Major, you thought it was all right, if I made a declaration of love. "

"So far I do not want. But I would like to see the man who wished not like. Thoughts and wishes
are duty free. "

"The question is.

And then it still remains a difference between thoughts and wishes.

Thoughts are usually something that is still in the background, but most requests are already on
the lip. "

"Just not exactly the analogy."

"Oh, Crampas you are ... They are ... "

"A fool."

"No. The fact exaggerate again.

But you are something else. In High-told Cremmen We always, and I with the most vain, what is there,
it was a hussar cornet of eighteen ... "

"And now?"

"And now I say, the most vain thing there is, is a country of forty-two
major military district."

"... with the two years you shall bring me graciously, all make up -. kiss the hand "

"Yes, kiss her hand. This is really the word that fits for you. This is Viennese. And Vienna,
which I've met in Karlsbad, four years ago, where me fourteen years Things the court did.
What I have heard it all! "

"Certainly no more than was right."

"If this were true, it would be, what do I want to flatter, rather naughty ... But see because
the buoys, like swimming and dancing.

The little red flags are pulled. Always if I will this summer some time I ventured out to the
beach, the red flags saw, I said to myself: There is Vineta, as it must be, those are the tops
... "

"That's because you know the Heine poem." "What?"

"Well, that of Vineta."

"No, I do not know, I know very little at all.

Unfortunately. "

"And yet Gieshiibler and journal circle!

By the way, Heine's poem to another Name given, I think 'Seegespenst' or something like that. But Vineta
he meant. And he himself - and pardon if I so easily reproducing the content here - the poet
So while he's on the site is located on a ship deck and looks down
and sees as narrow, medieval streets and women in Kapotthüten tripping,
and all have a Hymn-book in your hands and do for the Church, and
all the bells ringing.

And when he hears that, because holds him a desire to go even to
church, even if only for the Kapotthüte sake, and he cries out with
desire and wants to plunge down.

But at the same moment him, the captain grabs the leg and called
to him: 'Doctor, you are the devil "?

"That's very nice. I'd like to read this. Is it long? "

"No, it's actually short, slightly longer than 'You have diamonds and pearls' or' Your soft
lily fingers' ...«,

and he gently touched her hand. "But long or short, what description of force that clarity! He
is my favorite poet, and I can memorize any more than I otherwise, despite occasional own sins,
turns the Dichterei. In Heine it is but otherwise, everything is Life, and above all he knows
about the love that still remains the main thing.

He is Incidentally, not one-sided in it ... "

"What do you mean?"

"I mean, he's not just for the love ..."

"Well, if he had this one-sidedness also, which would be the end is not the worst. What Is he to?
"

He is also very much for the romantic, which is of course equal to the love and opinion some even
to collapse. What I do not think so.

For in his later poems, the one called for the 'romantic' has, or
has he actually done it myself, in these romantic seals is executed
in a continuous, but often out of love.

But mostly from other coarser motives, where I first set the policy. almost always grossly,
is counting on. Charles Stuart, with, for example, in one of his romances Head under his arm,
and even fatal is the story of Vitzliputzli ... "

"From whom?"

"From Vitzliputzli. Vitzliputzli is in fact a Mexican god, and when the Mexicans eight p.m. or
had taken taken thirty Spaniards, had these twenty or thirty of the Vitzliputzli be sacrificed.
This was no different, local custom, worship, and everything went
in a flash, Belly on, heart out ... "

"No, Crampas, so you must not speak. It's indecent and disgusting at the same time. And all pretty
much the same moment, where we want to have breakfast. "

"Personally, I see myself in a place not affected my appetite at all and only depending on the
menu. "

While these words they were, just as the program's wanted her from
the beach to a already half in the shade of the dunes whipped Bank,
with a very primitive table in front come to two posts with a board
over it.

Kruse, who had voraufgeritten here already served; Teebrötchen and cold cuts of cold meat, served
with red wine and the next bottle two beautiful, delicate glasses, small and with gold edge,
as you buy them in resort towns or of glass works bring as a reminder.

And now you got down. Kruse, who looped the reins of his own horse, a stunted pine had walked with
the other two horses up and down, while Crampas and efficiency, by a narrow dune opening a clear
view of the beach and pier, had covered before the Table settled.

About the days of the storm was moving her already half the winter sea November sun poured
her pale light, and the surf was high.

Now and then came a gust of wind, and drove the Foam to closely at
them.

Beach grass stood around, and the bright yellow of the everlasting rose, despite the color relationship,
the yellow of the sand on which she grew sharply. Effi was the landlady. "I'm sorry, Major, to
present you this bread in a basket lid to have to ... "

"A basket
cover is not a chair ..."

"... However, Kruse has asked for it. There
you are also blind. To you, our stock but not set. What do we do with
blind? "

"I think we give him everything, and I for my part out of
gratitude. You see, most expensive Effi ... "

Effi looked at him.

For
you see, madam, Rollo reminded me again of what I will still continue
as or wanted to tell Vitzliputzli counterpart - only much more piquant,
because love story. Have you ever heard of a certain Pedro the Cruel?
"

"Dark so."

"A kind of Bluebeard king."

"That's good. From such
a one always hears the most, and I remember that we of my Hulda Niemeyer
girlfriend, whose name you know her, always claimed they knew nothing
of History, with the exception of the six wives of Henry VIII, the
English Bluebeard, if the word is enough for him. And really, these
six she knew by heart. And it would You should hear how she pronounced
the name, especially the from the mother of Elizabeth - So terribly
embarrassed, as if it was now the turn ... But now please, the story
by Don Pedro ... "

"Well, then, was at Don Pedro's court a handsome
black Spanish knight of the Cross Kalatrava - which roughly means
something like Schwarzer Adler and Pour le mérite together - Wore
on his chest. This cross was with this that she had to wear always,
and this Kalatravaritter in Queen of course secretly loved ... "

"Why
of course?"

"Because we are in Spain." Oh. "

"And this Kalatravaritter,
I say, had a beautiful dog, a Newfoundland, although it still did
not exist, because it was just a hundred years before the discovery
of America. A beautiful dog that is to say we like blind ... "

Rollo
began to bark when he heard his name, and wagged his tail.

"This
went on for making day. But the secret to the love that was not quite
in secret, which was the king still too many, and because he did not
quite the beautiful Kalatravaritter might suffer - because he was
not only cruel, he was also an envious, or if the word fit for a king,
and even more gracious to my listener, wife Em, not quite should,
at least one Neidling - so he decided to Kalatravaritter for the secret
love to be executed in secret. "

"I can not blame him."

"I do not
know yet, my dear lady. Just listen to more. Things go on, but it
was too much: the King, I think, was about a Erkleckliches too far.
He feigned namely, that he wanted the knight because of his war exploits
and organize a festival, and there was for a long, long table, and
all the grandees of the empire sat at this table, and in the Middle
sat the king, and opposite him was the place for him to whom all this
was so for the Kalatravaritter, celebrants for the that day. And because,
although we have had waited a while his still would not come, so had
to finally the celebration to begin without him, and it remained an
empty space - an empty space straight to the king. "And now?"

"And
now you think, madame, the king, that Pedro wants to rise flat, hypocritical
to express his regret that his 'dear guest' is still lacking, as heard
one on the steps outside an outcry of the horrified servants, and
before anyone know what happened chases, something along the long
banquet table, and now it jumps to the chair and sets a severed head
on the left empty space, and just this Main blind stares across at
his opponent, the king. Rollo had his master on his last walk accompanied,
in the same moment when the ax fell, the faithful animal had the falling
head packed, and there he was, our friend Rollo, at the long banquet
table and sued the royal murderer. "

Effi was quite quiet. At last
she said: "Crampas is that in its way, very nice and because it is
very nice, I will forgive you. But you could still better and while
I prefer to do if you could find some other stories. By Heine. Heine
it is not merely of Vitzliputzli and Don Pedro and your blind - because
I had so what is not done - have been written. Come on, pull! Poor
creature, I can not look up even more, without thinking of the Kalatravaritter,
which the queen secretly loved ... Call, please, Kruse, things that
he again inserted into the holster, and if we ride back, must You
tell me what else, something completely different. "

Kruse came.
When he wanted to take the glasses, Crampas said: "Kruse, a glass,
the as you leave. That I will take myself. "

"Very good, sir."

Effi,
who had overheard this, shook his head. Then she laughed. »Crampas
what falls You only really one? Kruse is stupid enough to think about
the matter any further, and when he thinks about it, he finds nothing,
fortunately. I was afraid, and what rather heightened than diminished the unwonted sensation, was the
fact that I was not afraid of anything tangible, either in the present or future, but of something
unexplainable and peculiar, which, if it lay in the skies, certainly made them look dark indeed;
and if it hid in the forest, caused its faintest murmur to seem like the utterance of a great
dread, as awful as it was inexplicable.

I nevertheless proceeded, and should have done so if the great streaks of lightning which now
and then shot zigzag through the sky had taken the shape of words and bid us all beware. I
was not one to be daunted, and knew no other course than that of advance when once a stroke
of justice had been planned, and the direction for its fulfilment marked out. I went on, but
I began to think, and that to me was an experience; for I had never been taught to reflect,
only to fight and obey.

The house towards which we were riding was built on a hillside, and the first thing we saw
on emerging from the forest, was a light burning in one of its distant windows. This was a
surprise; for the hour was late, and in that part of the country people were accustomed to
retire early, even such busy men as the Judge. He must have a visitor, and a visitor meant
a possible complication of affairs; so a halt was called and I was singled out to reconnoitre
the premises, and bring back word of what we had a right to expect.

I started off in a strange state of mind. The fear I had spoken of had left me, but a vague
shadow remained, through which, as through a mist, I saw the light in that far away window
beckoning me on to what I felt was in some way to make an end of my present life. As I drew
nearer to it, the feeling increased; then it, too, left me, and I found myself once more the
daring avenger. This was when I came to the foot of the hill and discovered I had but a few
steps more to take.

The house, which had now become plainly visible, was a solid one of stone, built as I have
said, on the hillside. It faced the road, as was shown by the large portico, dimly to be discerned
in that direction; but its rooms were mainly on the side, and it was from one of these that
the light shone. As I came yet nearer, I perceived that these rooms were guarded by a piazza,
which, communicating with the portico in front, afforded an open road to that window and a
clear sight of what lay behind it.

I was instantly off my horse and upon the piazza, and before I had had time to realize that
my fears had returned to me with double force, I had crept with stealthy steps towards that
uncurtained window and looked in.

What did I see? At first nothing but a calm, studious figure, bending above a batch of closely
written papers, upon which the light shone too brightly for me to perceive much of what lay
beyond them. But gradually an influence, of whose workings I was scarcely conscious, drew my
eyes away, and I began to discover on every side strange and beautiful objects which greatly
interested me, until suddenly my eyes fell upon a vision of loveliness so enchanting that I
forgot to look elsewhere, and became for the moment nothing but sight and feeling.

It was a picture, or so I thought in that first instant of awe and delight. But presently I
saw that it was a woman, living and full of the thoughts that had never been mine; and at the
discovery a sudden trembling seized me; for I had never seen anything in heaven or earth like
her beauty, while she saw nothing but the man who was bending over his papers.

There was a door or something dark behind her, and against it her tall strong figure, clad
in a close white gown, stood out with a distinctness that was not altogether earthly. But it
was her face that held me, and made of me from moment to moment a new man.

For in it I discerned what I had never believed in till now, devotion that had no limit, and
love which asked nothing in return. She seemed to be faltering on the threshold of that room,
like one who would like to enter but does not dare, and in another moment, with a smile that
pierced me through and through, she turned as if to go. Instantly I forgot everything but my
despair, and leaned forward with an impetuosity that betrayed my presence, for she glanced
quickly towards the window, and seeing me, turned pale, even while she rose in height till
I felt myself shrink and grow small before her.

Thrusting out her hand, she caught from the table before her what looked like a small dagger,
and holding it up, advanced upon me with blazing eyes and parted lips, not seeing that the
Judge had risen to his feet, not seeing anything but my face glued against the pane, and staring
with an expression that must have struck her to the heart as surely as her look pierced mine.
When she was almost upon me I turned and fled. Hell could not have frightened me, but Heaven
did; and for me that woman was Heaven whether she smiled or frowned, gazed upon another with
love, or raised a dagger to strike me to the ground.

How soon I met my mates I cannot say. In a few minutes, doubtless, for they had stolen after
me and had detected me running away from the window. I was forced to tell my tale, and I told
it unhesitatingly, for I knew I could not save him--if I wanted to--and I knew I should save
her or die in the attempt.

"He is alone there with a girl," I announced. "Whether she is his wife or not I cannot say,
but there is no cross against her name, and I ask that she be spared not only from sharing
his fate, but from the sight of his death, for she loves him."

This from me! No wonder the captain stared, then laughed. But I did not laugh in return, and
being the strongest man in the band and the surest with my rifle, he did not trifle long, but
listened to my plans and in part consented to them, so that I retreated to my post at the gateway
with something like confidence, while he, approaching the door, lifted the knocker and let
it fall with a resounding clang that must have rung like a knell of death to the hearts within. The whole storm, which swelled his soul; So broke
out about the traitors. He called it a false friend, a slanderer, a worthlessness - called
all avenging deities against him - swore, if he the Accusations, which he erfrechete beschmitzen
to the virtue of the beautiful Danae, not prove to the most immediate evidence would not true,
staining it as the sunlight to destroy monsters, and his body unburied cursed the birds of
the sky low to give.

The sophist watched this storm with the serenity of a man, the nature of the passions knows, as calm as
one of the secure bank is watching the wild uproar of the waves, the He has escaped happy.
A compassionate view, which a mischievous smile of his ambiguous Behaved completely worth was all that
he opposed the wrath of the applied lover. Agathon was taken aback about it. A terrible doubt
threw him at once to the opposite Page. "Speech, cruel," he exclaimed, "Speak Prove your charges
hassenswuerdigen Sun clear as sunshine, or confess that you are a verraetrischer wretch, and
die of Shame !"--" Are you all here, Callias, "said the sophist with this wicked serenity that
in such circumstances the triumphant malice is inherent - "come only to yourself; soon you'll be able
to listen to reason, I speak. "

Agathon was silent, for what can be said the one who does not know
what to think he?

"Truly," said the sophist, "I do not understand what you have to for a cause think to play
the mad Ajax with me. Who talks of accusations? Anyone who complains nice to Danae? Is it perhaps
less lovable because you are not the first they saw, nor the first who has found sensitive? As
for the moods are! Believe me, every one but you would not have needed other than they had seen
to my News to find credibility, your mere sight is proof. But you ask a stronger, you shall have
it, Callias. What you said when I myself have been one of those would be, which can boast of
having seen the beautiful Danae sensitive ?"--" you? " Agathon said with an incredulous surprise, that
just is not flattering to the vanity of the sophists was. "Yes, Callias, and I", replied the
other, "I, as thou seest me here, ten or twelve years been settled, by which I might be clever
at that time, the applause of a beautiful lady get. You may think I'm joking, but I am convinced
that Your Goddess thinks himself too noble to you if you will ask them with good nature, a truth
want to behave, all of which Smyrna could testify. "

This continued the barbaric man, without the slightest sympathy with the state, into which he
poor Agathon sat by his bragging, the bliss, which he in the poor enjoyed the beautiful Danae
(Heaven knows with what reason) to have claimed, by Piece to piece with a tone of truth, and
to describe with a cheerfulness which his listener almost to despair brought. "It's over," he finally
fell to the Sophists with such a violent movement in the speech that he has at this moment more
than a man seemed to be - "It's over, O Virtue, thou art avenged -! Hippias, you got me under
the smiling mask of friendship with a poison dagger durchbohret - but I thank you - your Evil me make
a more important service than anything that your friendship for me would have can do.
 And when I came to study the situation, I found
myself as much at loss as they; indeed, more so; for I knew I had made no mistake in preparing
the mixture, and that, even if I had, this especial poison could not have found its way into
it, owing to the fact that there neither was nor ever had been a drop of it in my possession.

The mixture, then, was pure when it left my hand, and, according to the nurse, whom, as I have
said, I implicitly believe, it went into the glass pure. And yet when, two hours later, without
her having left the room or anybody coming into it, she found occasion to administer the draught,
poison was in the cup, and the patient was only saved from death by the most immediate and
energetic measures, not only on her part, but on that of Dr. Holmes, whom in her haste and
perturbation she had called in from the adjacent house.

The patient, young, innocent, unfortunate, but of a strangely courageous disposition, betrayed
nothing but the utmost surprise at the peril she had so narrowly escaped. When Dr. Holmes intimated
that perhaps she had been tired of suffering, and had herself found means of putting the deadly
drug into her medicine, she opened her great gray eyes, with such a look of child-like surprise
and reproach, that he blushed, and murmured some sort of apology.

"Poison myself?" she cried, "when you promise me that I shall get well? You do not know what
a horror I have of dying in debt, or you would never say that."

This was some time after the critical moment had passed, and there were in the room Mrs. Dayton,
the landlady, Dr. Holmes, the nurse, and myself. At the utterance of these words we all felt
ashamed and cast looks of increased interest at the poor girl.

She was very lovely. Though without means, and to all appearance without friends, she possessed
in great degree the charm of winsomeness, and not even her many sufferings, nor the indignation
under which she was then laboring, could quite rob her countenance of that tender and confiding
expression which so often redeems the plainest face and makes beauty doubly attractive.

"Dr. Holmes does not know you," I hastened to say; "I do, and utterly repel for you any such
insinuation. In return, will you tell me if there is any one in the world whom you can call
your enemy? Though the chief mystery is how so deadly and unusual a poison could have gotten
into a clean glass, without the knowledge of yourself or the nurse, still it might not be amiss
to know if there is any one, here or elsewhere, who for any reason might desire your death." His vanity is felt offended. Agathon and Danae had the opportunity
to do so. Although he knew well that they do not intend to insult him could have had it: but why are
not worried Hippias. On the contrary, every
one seems to love me more than I deserve. Haven't you noticed it, Mrs. Dayton?"

The landlady smiled and stroked the sick girl's hand.

"Indeed," she replied, "I have noticed that people love you, but I have never thought that
it was more than you deserved. You are a dear little thing, Addie."

And though she knew and I knew that the "every one" mentioned by the poor girl meant ourselves,
and possibly her unknown employer, we were none the less touched by her words. The more we
studied the mystery, the deeper and less explainable did it become.

And indeed I doubt if we should have ever got to the bottom of it, if there had not presently
occurred in my patient a repetition of the same dangerous symptoms, followed by the same discovery,
of poison in the glass, and the same failure on the part of herself and nurse to account for
it. I was aroused from my bed at midnight to attend her, and as I entered her room and met
her beseeching eyes looking upon me from the very shadow of death, I made a vow that I would
never cease my efforts till I had penetrated the secret of what certainly looked like a persistent
attempt upon this poor girl's life.

I went about the matter deliberately. As soon as I could leave her side, I drew the nurse into
a corner and again questioned her. The answers were the same as before. Addie had shown distress
as soon as she had swallowed her usual quantity of medicine, and in a few minutes more was
in a perilous condition.

"Did you hand the glass yourself to Addie?"

"I did."

"Where did you take it from?"

"From the place where you left it--the little stand on the farther side of the bed."

"And do you mean to say that you had not touched it since I prepared it?"

"I do, ma'am."

"And that no one else has been in the room?"

"No one, ma'am."

I looked at her intently. I trusted her, but the best of us are but mortal.

"Can you assure me that you have not been asleep during this time?"

"Look at this letter I have been writing," she returned. "It is eight pages long, and it was
not begun when you left us at 10 o'clock."

I shook my head and fell into a deep revery. How was that matter to be elucidated, and how
was my patient to be saved? Another draught of this deadly poison, and no power on earth could
resuscitate her. What should I do, and with what weapons should I combat a danger at once so
subtle and so deadly? Reflection brought no decision, and I left the room at last, determined
upon but one point, and that was the immediate removal of my patient. But before I had left
the house I changed my mind even on this point. Removal of the patient meant safety to her,
perhaps, but not the explanation of her mysterious poisoning. I would change the position of
her bed, and I would even set a watch over her and the nurse, but I would not take her out
of the house--not yet.

And what had produced this change in my plans? The look of a woman whom I met on the stairs.
I did not know her, but when I encountered her glance I felt that there was some connection
between us, and I was not at all surprised to hear her ask:

"And how is Miss Wilcox to-day?"

"Miss Wilcox is very low," I returned. "The least neglect, the least shock to her nerves, would
be sufficient to make all my efforts useless. Otherwise--"

"She will get well?"

I nodded. I had exaggerated the condition of the sufferer, but some secret instinct compelled
me to do so. The look which passed over the woman's face satisfied me that I had done well;
and, though I left the house, it was with the intention of speedily returning and making inquiries
into the woman's character and position in the household. Then he made with a
brush or an elegant bar and held back criticism. Ben ran over to him, Tom watered the mouth after
the apple, but he stood absorbed in his work. Ben said, "Hello, old boy, criminal work, eh? "

, 'Oh, it's you, Ben. I had not noticed you. "

,, You know, I'm going to grad swimming.

Would you go along are welcome? But, of course, remain you prefer
in your work, right?

"

Tom looked at the boy in astonishment and said: "What do you call
work"

,, Well, that's because no work?

"

Tom looked at his painting and said carelessly: "Well, maybe it's
working, or No work, at least it makes fun of Tom Sawyer.

"

,, Na, na, you're not really tell you that since the fun? "

The brush stroked and stroked.

, Fun? Why the heck not it be fun? Can you maybe paint a fence every day? "

Ben suddenly appeared in the matter in another light. He stopped to nibble at his apple. Tom drove
slowly with his brush back and forth, back and forth, paused to recover
from the effects convincing, here and there helped for a little, tried
again, while Ben always attentive was always more interested.

Suddenly he said: "You, Tom, let me stress a little!

Tom thought, was on the point of consent, but he changed his mind: "No, no. I would warmly like
to do, Ben. But - Aunt Polly's so much just on this fence, straight on the road - But you know
if it was the black fence that's right, and I would ye would be right.

Yes, they are an awful lot on this fence, so I must make because very carefully! I think of
a thousand, what - two thousand boys is not perhaps one that's their
right can do as they will have it.

"

,, Na - really? - You - give it to me, just try me, just a little - try little. I would let
you if it were my job, Tom. "

, Ben, I'd's true - haf - TIG like to do, but Aunt Polly - you know, Jim's wish also already do,
but they would not let him. Sid wanted to do it, but they did not do it too! Well, you see
well that it does not work? If you paint the fence and what happened,
Ben - "

,, O, nonsense! I's will so do be careful! Just try once!
If I give you the rest of give my apple? "

,, Well, then - ne, Ben,
do not do it, I'm so afraid - "

,, I 'give you the whole apple! "

Tom
was with a sad face from the brush - inwardly rejoicing. And while
the steamer "Big Missouri worked and sweated in the heat of the sun,
sat the artist, resting on a tree stump in the shade of the fence
proposed to cross their legs eaten his apple and wondered how he could
attract even more innocent people for his replacement. Victims were
enough available. Every moment strolled over boys. They came to make
fun of him and were, in order to delete. I waited with indescribable
anxiety, and more than once fancied I heard steps, if not a feverish breathing close to my
bed-head; but no one appeared, and the nurse in her big chair did not move.

At last I grew weary, and fearful of losing control over my eyelids, I fixed my gaze upon the
glass, as if in so doing I should find a talisman to keep me awake, when, great God! what was
it I saw! A hand, a creeping hand coming from nowhere and joined to nothing, closing about
that glass and drawing it slowly away till it disappeared entirely from before my eyes!

I gasped--I could not help it--but I did not stir. For now I knew I was asleep and dreaming.
But no, I pinch myself under the clothes, and find that I am very wide awake indeed; and then--look!
look! the glass is returning; the hand--a woman's hand--is slowly setting it back in its place,
and--

With a bound I have that hand in my grasp. It is a living hand, and it is very warm and strong
and fierce, and the glass has fallen and lies shattered between us, and a double cry is heard,
one from behind the partition, through an opening in which this hand had been thrust, and one
from the nurse, who has jumped to her feet and is even now assisting me in holding the struggling
member, upon which I have managed to scratch a tell-tale mark with a piece of the fallen glass.
At sight of the iron-like grip which this latter lays upon the intruding member, I at once
release my own grasp.

"Hold on," I cried, and leaping from the bed, I hastened first to my patient, whom I carefully
reassured, and then into the hall, where I found the landlady running to see what was the matter.
"I have found the wretch," I cried, and drawing her after me, hurried about to the other side
of the partition, where I found a closet, and in it the woman I had met on the stairs, but
glaring now like a tiger in her rage, menace, and fear.

That woman was my humble little patient's bitter but unknown enemy. Enamoured of a man who--unwisely,
perhaps--had expressed in her hearing his admiration for the pretty typewriter, she had conceived
the idea that he intended to marry the latter, and, vowing vengeance, had taken up her abode
in the same house with the innocent girl, where, had it not been for the fortunate circumstance
of my meeting her on the stairs, she would certainly have carried out her scheme of vile and
secret murder. The poison she had bought in another city, and the hole in the partition she
had herself cut. This had been done at first for the purpose of observation, she having detected
in passing by Miss Wilcox's open door that a banner of painted silk hung over that portion
of the wall in such a way as to hide any aperture which might be made there.

Afterward, when Miss Wilcox fell sick, and she discovered by short glimpses through her loop-hole
that the glass of medicine was placed on a table just under this banner, she could not resist
the temptation to enlarge the hole to a size sufficient to admit the pushing aside of the banner
and the reaching through of her murderous hand. Why she did not put poison enough in the glass
to kill Miss Wilcox at once I have never discovered. Probably she feared detection. That by
doing as she did she brought about the very event she had endeavored to avert, is the most
pleasing part of the tale. When the gentleman of whom I have spoken learned of the wicked attempt
which had been made upon Miss Wilcox's life, his heart took pity upon her, and a marriage ensued,
which I have every reason to believe is a happy one.

SHALL HE WED HER?

When I met Taylor at the Club the other night, he looked so cheerful I scarcely knew him.

"What is it?" cried I, advancing with outstretched hand.

"I am going to be married," was his gay reply. "This is my last night at the Club."

I was glad, and showed it. Taylor is a man for whom domestic life is a necessity. He has never
been at home with us, though we all liked him, and he in his way liked us.

"And who is the fortunate lady?" I inquired; for I had been out of town for some time, and
had not as yet been made acquainted with the latest society news.

"My intended bride is Mrs. Walworth, the young widow--"

He must have seen a change take place in my expression, for he stopped.

"You know her, of course?" he added, after a careful study of my face.

I had by this time regained my self-possession.

"Of course," I repeated, "and I have always thought her one of the most attractive women in
the city. Right at the beginning
of acquaintance, less out of kindness or passion than from the need to his new to enjoy happiness
in the most undisturbed way Alfred had caused the mistress, her give up a respectable position
as a correspondent in Vienna department store. But after he is a considerable time, grateful
of her affection, wrapped in the most convenient had found common enjoyment of freedom better
than in any previous relationship, He now began to feel it rise to that well-known promising
unrest, as it usually was to announce the imminent end of a love relationship, an end that only
in this Case seemed not at present be foreseen. Already he saw himself in the spirit as fellow
sufferers a childhood friend who ends up, years ago in a compound of a similar nature, now
as to lead listless father a retired, limited life was forced; and many hours to it without
intimations of this kind on the side of a graceful and gentle Being, as it was Elise, a pleasure
would have to grant began his boredom and to put pain. Well it was the ability and what he might
still count higher let the self-respect, Elise notice of such moods nothing, after all, but had
to the effect, often visit him again the sociability of those middle-class circles , Where he
can in the course of last year, had almost completely alienated. And when him on the occasion of
a dance party a much sought-after young lady, the daughter of a wealthy factory owner, entgegenkam
with remarkably friendly, and he suddenly so the slight possibility of a compound saw before
him that his position and his wealth was appropriate, he began that others, who started as
a cheerful casual adventure to feel as an annoying ankle, a young man to shake off the safe
of its benefits expected. But the smiling calm with the Elise received him again and again, its
always consistent Dedication in becoming sparser hours of being together, the unsuspecting
security, with him from her arms into a world unknown to her, dismissed all this he did not press
only each time the parting word from his lips, to which he was always determined before believed, but filled
him with a sort of agonizing pity, given very little conscious expressions such a warm trusting
woman like Elise just as a new and more intimate token of his affection had to appear. And so it
was then that Elise never felt hot adored by him as when he spoke of a new encounter with Adele,
when shaken by the memory of süßfragender Looks auspicious handshakes and more recently the noise
of the first secret bride kisses in that silence, he alone, and his faithless love, dedicated
home was returned, and instead with the farewell, which he still carried on the threshold, leaving
the beloved Alfred each morning with renewed vows eternal, a party.

For days this would be contrary by both adventure and at last only remained to decide which Evening
for the debate has become inevitable with Elise would be better selected, before or after the
engagement with the needle; and the first of these evenings, as were
yet shall be before him, was Alfred appeared in a game through the
habit of his almost double reassured of soul in the beloved.

 Such a request coming from a young girl
well connected and with every visible sign of being generously provided for by her father,
was certainly startling to an old bachelor of settled ways and strict notions, but remembering
her youth and the childish innocence of her manner, I turned over the page and read as her
reason for proffering such a request, that her heart was set upon aiding a certain poor family
that stood in immediate need of food, clothes, and medicines, but that she could not do what
she wished, because she had already spent all the money allowed her by her father for such
purposes and dared not go to him for more, as she had once before offended him by doing this,
and feared if she repeated her fault he would carry out the threat he had then made of stopping
her allowance altogether. But the family was a deserving one and she could not see any member
of it starve, so she came to me, of whose goodness she was assured, convinced I would understand
her perplexity and excuse her, and so forth and so forth, in language quite child-like and
entreating, which, if it did not satisfy my ideas of propriety, at least touched my heart and
made any action which I could take in the matter extremely difficult.

"To refuse her request would be at once to mortify and aggrieve her; to accede to it and give
her the fifty dollars she asked--a sum by the way I could not well spare--would be to encourage
an action easily pardoned once, but which if repeated would lead to unpleasant complications,
to say the least. The third course, of informing her father of what she needed, I did not even
consider, for I knew him well enough to be sure that nothing but pain to her would be the result. And half had passed when the afternoon was out of the poor,
abandoned by Tom Tomorrow has become literally a wealth swimming in Tom. He possessed in addition
to the matters mentioned twelve marbles, a piece of a ripple iron, a piece of blue tinted glass
to look through a game gun, a knife, which certainly never harm anyone had done or could ever
do, a bit of chalk, a glass stopper, a tin soldier, the head of a frog, six fire moth, a rabbit
with one eye, a brazen Door handle, a dog collar (but no dog), the handle of a knife, four orange
peel and a broken window frame. He had a carefree, comfortable, fun day, a lot of interest
- and the fence had been given for a triple color! Would not The fence now been completed
- Tom still all boys of the village would have been bankrupt.

Tom thought to himself, the world would eventually not probably as bumpy. He was, without even
knowing quite got behind an important law of human activity, namely the, that to anyone, big or small,
to make lusting after something, it is only necessary that something making difficult to reach.
Had he been a great and wise philosopher, like the author this book, he would have now realized that
to do what someone has to work, what you voluntarily does, however, is fun. He would have also understood
that making artificial flowers or move to the treadmill, "work" is, skittles, however, or climb
the Mont Blanc, , Pleasure ".

There are rich Englishman who run a four-in-twenty or thirty miles in a day To leave because they
have a bunch of fun costs money, but they would be paid for they would see it as "work" and
refrain.

Chapter Three.

Tom presented Aunt Polly, who in a comfortable, both as a bedroom, breakfast dining room, sitting
room serving at the open window, and busy busy with handwork had been. The balmy summer air,
the perfect calm, the scent of flowers and buzzing of bees, All had practiced its effect - she
had fallen asleep on their jobs. She had only had the cat for company, and who was sleeping
in her basket. The glasses she (Aunt Polly) for caution on her gray head pushed up further. She
might have thought Tom had long since become volatile and wondered
now, it blithely sitting next to him to see.

, May I go play now,
aunt?

"Tom asked innocently.

"What, again?

What have you done today? "

, All done, aunt! "

, Tom, lie to not! I do not believe it! "

"I lie not, aunt. Everything is ready. "

Aunt Polly was no particular confidence in his assurances. She went to self seen, and it would
have been satisfied, they would have twenty percent of Tom's words found true; when she saw
that really deleted the entire fence and painted not only easy, but
thoroughly and repeatedly covered with paint, and a piece of land
on top of that a layer of color had gotten her surprise was inexpressible.

She said: "Well, this would not I for thought possible! I see, Tom, you can work, if you will.
"And then she lowered the compliment by adding, "But it is mighty seldom that you want - unfortunately.
'Tis well, go now and play. Show, however, that you here again in a week Latest are, or I'll
punch 'you - - "

She was so surprised by the brilliancy of his feat that she pulled him into the pantry and sought out
a select Apple and it gave him - with the unctuous Note on how hard work increases every pleasure
and finishing - if they diligently, honestly and being done without gimmicks and trickery. And
while she closed with an appropriate biblical passage had he steals a piece of cake. Then
he skipped away, and saw Sid just the outdoor stairs climb that led to a back room on the second
floor. Clods were enough available and the next moment a lot of rattled
through the air. They fell like a hail-storm down to around Sid. And
before Aunt Polly could collect her surprised and spirits come to
the rescue, six or seven bullets had reached their goal, and Tom was
on the Fence and away. While it was a door in it, but as you can imagine,
had Tom it is much too hasty to go through there. You see,' he continued,
as I looked at him sharply, 'I had to remain out here. If I had gone even into the large room,
the Bible would not have been disturbed, nor the letter either. So, in the hope of knowing
the rogue at sight, I strolled about this hall, and kept my eye constantly on that door, but--'

"He looked embarrassed, and stopped. 'You say the letter is gone,' he suggested, after a moment.

"'Yes,' I returned.

"He shook his head. 'Nobody went into that room or came out of it,' he went on, 'whom you would
have wished me to follow. I should have thought myself losing time if I had taken one step
after any one of them.'

"'But who did go into that room?' I urged, impatient at his perplexity.

"'Only three persons this morning,' he returned. 'You know them all.' And he mentioned first
Mrs. Couldock."

Taylor, who was lending me the superficial attention of a preoccupied man, smiled frankly at
the utterance of this name. "Of course, she had nothing to do with such a debasing piece of
business," he observed.

"Of course not," I repeated. "Nor does it seem likely that Miss Dawes could have been concerned
in it. Yet my detective told me that she was the next person who went into the parlor."

"I do not know Miss Dawes so well," remarked Taylor, carelessly.

"But I do," said I; "and I would as soon suspect my sister of a dishonorable act as this noble,
self-sacrificing woman."

"The third person?" suggested Taylor.

I got up and crossed the floor. When my back was to him, I said, quietly--"was Mrs. Walworth."

The silence that followed was very painful. I did not care to break it, and he, doubtless,
found himself unable to do so. It must have been five minutes before either of us spoke; then
he suddenly cried:

"Where is that detective, as you call him? I want to see him."

"Let me see him for you," said I. "I should hardly wish Sudley, discreet as I consider him,
to know you had any interest in this affair."

Taylor rose and came to where I stood.

"You believe," said he, "that she, the woman I am about to marry, is the one who wrote you
that infamous letter?"

I faced him quite frankly. "I do not feel ready to acknowledge that," I replied. "One of those
three women took my letter out from the Bible, where I placed it; which of them wrote the lines
that provoked it I do not dare conjecture. You say it was not Mrs. Couldock, I say it was not
Miss Dawes, but--"

He broke in upon me impetuously.

"Have you the letter?" he asked.

I had, and showed it to him.

"It is not Helen's handwriting," he said.

"Nor is it that of Mrs. Couldock or Miss Dawes."

He looked at me for a moment in a wild sort of way.

"You think she got some one to write it for her?" he cried. "Helen! my Helen! But it is not
so; it cannot be so. Why, Huntley, to have sent such a letter as that over the name of an innocent
young girl, who, but for the happy chance of meeting you as she did might never have had the
opportunity of righting herself in your estimation, argues a cold and calculating selfishness
closely allied to depravity. And my Helen is an angel--or so I have always thought her."

The depth to which his voice sank in the last sentence showed that for all his seeming confidence
he was not without his doubts.

I began to feel very uncomfortable, and not knowing what consolation to offer, I ventured upon
the suggestion that he should see Mrs. Walworth and frankly ask her whether she had been to
the hotel on Main Street on such a day, and if so, if she had seen a letter addressed to Miss
N---- lying on the table of the small parlor. His answer showed how much his confidence in
her had been shaken.

"A woman who, for the sake of paying some unworthy debt or of gratifying some whim of feminine
vanity, could make use of a young girl's signature to obtain money, would not hesitate at any
denial. She would not even blench at my questions."

He was right.

"I must be convinced in some other way," he went on. "Mrs. Couldock or Miss Dawes do not either
of them possess any more truthful or ingenuous countenance than she does, and though it seems
madness to suspect such women--"

"Wait," I broke in. "Let us be sure of all the facts before we go on. You lie down here and
close your eyes; now pull the rug up so. I will have Sudley in and question him. If you do
not turn towards the light he will not know who you are."

Taylor followed my suggestion, and in a few moments Sudley stood before me. I opened upon him
quite carelessly.

"Sudley," said I, throwing down the newspaper I had been ostensibly reading, "you remember
that little business you did for me in Main Street last month? Something I've been reading
made me think of it again."

"Yes, sir."

"Have you never had a conviction yourself as to which of the three ladies you saw go into the
parlor took the letter I left hid in the Bible?"

"No, sir. You see I could not. All of them are well known in society here and all of them belong
to the most respectable families. I wouldn't dare to choose between them, sir."

"Certainly not," I rejoined, "unless you have some good reason for doing so, such as having
been able to account for the visits of two of the ladies to the hotel, and not of the third."

"They all had a good pretext for being there. Mrs. Couldock gave her card to the boy before
going into the parlor, and left as soon as he returned with word that the lady she called to
see was not in. What a validity such a witness against a Danae could have - or do rather, what you
had for a mighty apologists, beautiful Danae, in the heart of your Agathon! What Hyperides would
have even if he was equally eloquent enough, the Athenians of the to convince innocence of a
Phryne, more transparent and revelator say for yourself can, as he himself said - Probably the
only reason would this sophistic Eloquence of love have been overpowered: But the jealousy that her Help
there had been instrumental in the decision. Of all the passions is not what the transformation
of the Possibility into actuality costs less than this. In the doubtful light which they spread
about his soul, was presumed to probability and probability to certainty, not unlike when he
with the subtle delicacy of a Julius Caesar the beautiful Danae would have been so found guilty
because she was bezuechtiget. He compared their own narrative of Hippias with his, and he believed
now that the distrust in his Spirit had once taken possession of perceiving one hundred marks in
the first, which the truth The latter reaffirmed. Here she was forced to give a circumstance
an artificial turn; there she was, (as he thought he remembered) was embarrassed, she made another
should make of her was suddenly slips.

With an equally eye-squinting, he went through her whole conduct towards
him.

How much he believed to see "now that they have from the first moment intentions had on him!
A thousand little circumstances, which he had then been very indifferent, seemed to him "now had
a secret meaning to. He reflected, he compared and combined so until he seemed quite credible,
that everything in the first visits, he her with Hippias made, proceeded to his transition into
their services, the consequences of been between her and the sophists plan had been talking.
How much of this poison Thought all they had done for him! how completely he was behaving
that their actions Beauty and grace that had so charmed him very much!


"Because if you were there on that morning--and I have been told you were--you may be able
to solve a question that is greatly perplexing me."

Still the same gentle, inquiring look on her face; only now there was a little furrow of wonder
or interest between the eyes.

"I had business in that hotel on that morning," I continued. "I had left a letter for a young
friend of mine in the Bible that lies on the small table of the inner parlor, and as she never
received it I have been driven into making all kinds of inquiries in the hope of finding some
explanation of the fact. As you were there at the time you may have seen something that would
aid me. Is it not possible, Mrs. Walworth?"

Her smile, which had faded, reappeared. On the lips which Taylor so much admired a little pout
became visible, and she looked quite enchanting.

"I do not even remember being at that hotel at all," she protested. "Did Mr. Taylor say I was
there?" she inquired, with just that added look of exquisite näivete which the utterance of
a lover's name should call up on the face of a prospective bride.

"No," I answered gravely; "Mr. Taylor, unhappily, was not with you that morning." She looked
startled.

"Unhappily," she repeated. "What do you mean by that word?" And she drew back looking very
much displeased.

I had expected this, and so was not thrown off my guard.

"I mean," I proceeded calmly, "that if you had had such a companion with you on that morning
I should now be able to put my questions to him, instead of taking your time and interrupting
your affairs by my importunities."

"You will tell me just what you mean," said she, earnestly.

I was equally emphatic in my reply. "That is only just. You ought to know why I trouble you
with this matter. Impatient questions on one - excuses and mischievous Expressions
on the other side; until Hippias to much persuasion, finally, the mystery of true state of the
beautiful Danae, and of those anecdotes, which we (albeit from innocent have revealed intentions)
our readers for the third chapter of the fourth book, with a Violence, who could not resist his
friendship vain for Agathon that demands left.

We have already noticed how much it in a narrative story on the intention of the narrator arrive, and
how different are the phrases, which they by the same difference receives. Danae told her story
with the innocent intention of pleasing. She saw NATURAL way their performance, their weaknesses,
their missteps, even in a milder, and (let's say the truth) in a truer light than the world, which
on the one Page of all the little circumstances which justify us or at least our fault could
reduce, not informed, and on the other side is vicious enough to their Amusement's sake bigger
over load the follies of our paintings with a thousand trains, to which it is not so much the
more strange but true. Unfortunately for it required the intention of the Hippias that he had
mischievous art, a story of the ugly Paint had to drive as far as is practicable in the laws of probability
only accessible could.

Our hero was like during these discoveries more than an image column
or one dead Cold showers and flying embers themselves alternately
drove through his veins.

Of his the vile passions at once assailed chest breathing so slowly that he fainted would be,
if not one of them suddenly to keep the upper hand, and the most violent outbreak of the heart
would have been pressed air. The light in which he Hippias his goddess was made with that
in which he was accustomed to see them, such an offensive Contrast, the thought of cheating have
become so much was so intolerable that he impossible had to attach the sophist faith fall.


"No," I returned; "happily for me my welfare is not bound up in the honor of any woman." And
leaving that shaft to work its way into her heart, if that heart were vulnerable, I took my
leave, more troubled and less decided than when I entered.

For her manner had been absolutely that of a woman surprised by insinuations she was too innocent
to rate at their real importance. And yet, if she did not take away that letter, who did? Mrs.
Couldock? Impossible. Miss Dawes? The thought was untenable, even for an instant. I waited
in great depression of spirits for the call I knew Taylor would not fail to make that evening.

When he came I saw what the result of my revelations was likely to be as plainly as I see it
now. He had conversed frankly with Mrs. Couldock and with Miss Dawes, and was perfectly convinced
as to the utter ignorance of them both in regard to the whole affair. In consequence, Mrs.
Walworth was guilty in his estimation, and being held guilty could be no wife for him, much
as he had loved her, and urgent as may have been the cause for her act.

"But," said I, in some horror of the consequences of an interference for which I was almost
ready to blame myself now, "Mrs. Couldock and Miss Dawes could have done no more than deny
all knowledge of this letter. Now Mrs. Walworth does that, and--"

"You have seen her? You have asked her--"

"Yes, I have seen her, and I have asked her, and not an eyelash drooped as she affirmed a complete
ignorance of the whole affair."

Taylor's head fell.

"I told you how that would be," he murmured at last. "I cannot feel that it is any proof of
her innocence. Or rather," he added, "I should always have my doubts."

"And Mrs. Couldock and Miss Dawes?"

"Ah!" he cried, rising and turning away; "there is no question of marriage between either of
them and myself."

I was therefore not astonished when the week went by and no announcement of his wedding appeared.
But I was troubled and am troubled still, for if mistakes are made in criminal courts, and
the innocent sometimes, through the sheer force of circumstantial evidence, are made to suffer
for the guilty, might it not be that in this little question of morals Mrs. Walworth has been
wronged, and that when I played the part of arbitrator in her fate, I only succeeded in separating
two hearts whose right it was to be made happy?

It is impossible to tell, nor is time likely to solve the riddle. Must I then forever blame
myself, or did I only do in this matter what any honest man would have done in my place? Answer
me, some one, for I do not find my lonely bachelor life in any wise brightened by the doubt,
and would be grateful to any one who would relieve me of it.

