The stagnation of life in Alaska is all but inconceivable. The summer tourist can hardly realize
it, because he brings to the settlement the only variety it knows; and this comes so seldom--once
or twice a month--that the population arises as a man and rejoices so long as the steamer is
in port. Please to picture this people after the excitement is over, quietly subsiding into
a comatose state, and remaining in it until the next boat heaves in sight. One feeds one's
self mechanically; takes one's constitutional along the shore or over one of the goat-paths
that strike inland; nodding now and again to the familiar faces that seem never to change in
expression except during tourist's hours; and then repairs to that bed which is the salvation
of the solitary, for sleep and oblivion are the good angels that brood over it. In summer the
brief night--barely forty winks in length--is so silvery and so soft that it is a delight to
sit up in it even if one is alone. Lights and shadows play with one another, and are reflected
in sea and sky until the eye is almost dazzled with the loveliness of the scene. I believe
if I were banished to Alaska I would sleep in the daytime--say from 8 a. m. to 5 p. m.,--and
revel in the wakeful beauty of the other hours.

But the winter, and the endless night of winter!--when the sun sinks to rest in discouragement
at three or four o'clock in the afternoon, and rises with a faint heart and a pale face at
ten or eleven in the forenoon; when even high noon is unworthy of the name--for the dull luminary,
having barely got above the fence at twelve o'clock, backs out of it and sinks again into the
blackness of darkness one is destined to endure for at least two thirds of the four and twenty!
Since the moon is no more obliging to the Alaskans than the sun is, what is a poor fellow to
do? He can watch the aurora until his eyes ache; he can sit over a game of cards and a glass
of toddy--he can always get the latter up there; he can trim his lamp and chat with his chums
and fill his pipe over and over again. But the night thickens and the time begins to lag; he
looks at his watch, to find it is only 9 p. m., and there are twelve hours between him and
daylight. It is a great land in which to store one's mind with knowledge, provided one has
the books at hand and good eyes and a lamp that won't flicker or smoke. Yet why should I worry
about this when there are people who live through it and like it?--or at least they say they do.

In my mind's eye I see the Alaska of the future--and the not far-distant future. Among the
most beautiful of the islands there will be fine openings; lawns and flowers will carpet the
slopes from the dark walls of the forest to the water's edge. In the midst of these favored
spots summer hotels will throw wide their glorious windows upon vistas that are like glimpses
of fairy land. Along the beach numerous skiffs await those who are weary of towns; steam launches
are there, and small barges for the transportation of picnic parties to undiscovered islands
in the dim distance. Sloop yachts with the more adventurous will go forth on voyages of exploration
and discovery, two or three days in length, under the guidance of stolid, thoroughbred Indian
pilots. There may be an occasional wreck, with narrow escapes from the watery grave--let us
hope so, for the sake of variety. There will be fishing parties galore, and camping on foreign
shores, and eagle hunts, and the delights of the chase; with Indian retinues and Chinese cooks,
and the "swell toggery" that is the chief, if not the only, charm of that sort of thing. There
will be circulating libraries in each hotel, and grand pianos, and private theatricals, and
nightly hops that may last indefinitely, or at least until sunrise, without shocking the most
prudent; for day breaks at 2 a. m.

There will be visits from one hotel to the other, and sea-voyages to dear old Sitka, where
the Grand Hotel will be located; and there will be the regular weekly or semi-weekly boat to
the Muir glacier, with professional guides to the top of it, and all the necessary traps furnished
on board if desired. And this wild life can begin as early as April and go on until the end
of September without serious injury. There will be no hay fever or prickly-heat; neither will
there be sunstrokes nor any of the horrors of the Eastern and Southern summer. It will remain
true to its promise of sweet, warm days, and deliciously cool evenings, in which the young
lover may woo his fair to the greatest advantage; for there is no night there. Then everyone
will come home with a new experience, which is the best thing one can come home with, and the
rarest nowadays; and with a pocketful of Alaskan garnets, which are about the worst he can
come home with, being as they are utterly valueless, and unhandsome even when they are beautifully
symmetrical.

Oh, the memory of the voyage, which is perhaps the most precious of all!--this we bring home
with us forever. The memory of all that is half civilized and wholly unique and uncommon: of
sleepy and smoky wigwams, where the ten tribes hold powwow in a confusion of gutturals, with
a plentiful mixture of saliva; for it is a moist language, a gurgle that approaches a gargle,
and in three weeks the unaccustomed ear scarcely recovers from the first shock of it; a memory
of totem poles in stark array, and of the high feast in the Indian villages, where the beauty
and chivalry of the forest gathered and squatted in wide circles listening to some old-man-eloquent
in the very ecstasy of expectoration; the memory of a non-committing, uncommunicative race,
whose religion is a feeble polytheism--a kind of demonolatry; for, as good spirits do not injure
one, one's whole time is given to the propitiation of the evil. This is called Shamanism, and
is said to have been the religion of the Tartar race before the introduction of Buddhism, and
is still the creed of the Siberians; a memory of solitary canoes on moonlit seas and of spicy
pine odors mingled with the tonic of moist kelp and salt-sea air.

A memory of friends who were altogether charming, of a festival without a flaw. O my kind readers!
when the Alaska Summer Hotel Company has stocked the nooks and corners of the archipelago with
caravansaries, and good boats are filling them with guests who go to spend the season in the
far Northwest, fail not to see that you are numbered among the elect; for Alaska outrivers
all rivers and out-lakes all lakes--being itself a lake of ten thousand islands; it out-mountains
the Alps of America, and certainly outdoes everything else everywhere else, in the shape of
a watering place. And when you have returned from there, after two or three months' absence
from the world and its weariness, you will begin to find that your "tum-tum is white" for the
first time since your baptismal day, and that you have gained enough in strength and energy
to topple the totem pole of your enemy without shedding a feather. There is hope for Alaska
in the line of a summer resort.

As ghosts scent the morning air and are dispersed, so we scented the air, which actually seemed
more familiar as we approached Washington in the great Northwest; and the spirit of peace,
of ease and of lazy contentment that had possessed our souls for three weeks took flight. It
was now but a day's sail to Victoria, and yet we began to think we would never get there.

