 And since the Duke of Argyll
was not a demon, but a man of like passions with ourselves, by no means rancorous or cruel
as men go, who can doubt that all over the world proletarians of the ducal kidney are now revelling
in "the whiff of dynamite" (the flavor of the joke seems to evaporate a little, does it not?)
because it was aimed at the class they hate even as our argute duke hated what he called the mob.

In such an atmosphere there can be only one sequel to the Madrid explosion. All Europe burns
to emulate it. Vengeance! More blood! Tear "the Anarchist beast" to shreds. Drag him to the
scaffold. Imprison him for life. Let all civilized States band together to drive his like off
the face of the earth; and if any State refuses to join, make war on it. This time the leading
London newspaper, anti-Liberal and therefore anti-Russian in politics, does not say "Serve
you right" to the victims, as it did, in effect, when Bobrikofl; and De Plehve, and Grand Duke
Sergius, were in the same manner unofficially fulminated into fragments. No: fulminate our
rivals in Asia by all means, ye brave Russian revolutionaries; but to aim at an English princess-monstrous!
hideous! hound down the wretch to his doom; and observe, please, that we are a civilized and
merciful people, and, however much we may regret it, must not treat him as Ravaillac and Damiens
were treated. And meanwhile, since we have not yet caught him, let us soothe our quivering
nerves with the bullfight, and comment in a courtly way on the unfailing tact and good taste
of the ladies of our royal houses, who, though presumably of full normal natural tenderness,
have been so effectually broken in to fashionable routine that they can be taken to see the
horses slaughtered as helplessly as they could no doubt be taken to a gladiator show, if that
happened to be the mode just now.

Strangely enough, in the midst of this raging fire of malice, the one man who still has faith
in the kindness and intelligence of human nature is the fulminator, now a hunted wretch, with
nothing, apparently, to secure his triumph over all the prisons and scaffolds of infuriate
Europe except the revolver in his pocket and his readiness to discharge it at a moment's notice
into his own or any other head. Think of him setting out to find a gentleman and a Christian
in the multitude of human wolves howling for his blood. Think also of this: that at the very
first essay he finds what he seeks, a veritable grandee of Spain, a noble, high-thinking, unterrified,
malice-void soul, in the guise--of all masquerades in the world!--of a modern editor. The Anarchist
wolf, flying from the wolves of plutocracy, throws himself on the honor of the man. The man,
not being a wolf (nor a London editor), and therefore not having enough sympathy with his exploit
to be made bloodthirsty by it, does not throw him back to the pursuing wolves--gives him, instead,
what help he can to escape, and sends him off acquainted at last with a force that goes deeper
than dynamite, though you cannot make so much of it for sixpence. That righteous and honorable
high human deed is not wasted on Europe, let us hope, though it benefits the fugitive wolf
only for a moment. The plutocratic wolves presently smell him out. The fugitive shoots the
unlucky wolf whose nose is nearest; shoots himself; and then convinces the world, by his photograph,
that he was no monstrous freak of reversion to the tiger, but a good looking young man with
nothing abnormal about him except his appalling courage and resolution (that is why the terrified
shriek Coward at him): one to whom murdering a happy young couple on their wedding morning
would have been an unthinkably unnatural abomination under rational and kindly human circumstances.

Then comes the climax of irony and blind stupidity. The wolves, balked of their meal of fellow-wolf,
turn on the man, and proceed to torture him, after their manner, by imprisonment, for refusing
to fasten his teeth in the throat of the dynamiter and hold him down until they came to finish him.

Thus, you see, a man may not be a gentleman nowadays even if he wishes to. As to being a Christian,
he is allowed some latitude in that matter, because, I repeat, Christianity has two faces.
Popular Christianity has for its emblem a gibbet, for its chief sensation a sanguinary execution
after torture, for its central mystery an insane vengeance bought off by a trumpery expiation.
But there is a nobler and profounder Christianity which affirms the sacred mystery of Equality,
and forbids the glaring futility and folly of vengeance, often politely called punishment or
justice. The gibbet part of Christianity is tolerated. The other is criminal felony. Connoisseurs
in irony are well aware of the fact that the only editor in England who denounces punishment
as radically wrong, also repudiates Christianity; calls his paper The Freethinker; and has
been imprisoned for two years for blasphemy.

SANE CONCLUSIONS

And now I must ask the excited reader not to lose his head on one side or the other, but to
draw a sane moral from these grim absurdities. It is not good sense to propose that laws against
crime should apply to principals only and not to accessories whose consent, counsel, or silence
may secure impunity to the principal. If you institute punishment as part of the law, you must
punish people for refusing to punish. If you have a police, part of its duty must be to compel
everybody to assist the police. No doubt if your laws are unjust, and your policemen agents
of oppression, the result will be an unbearable violation of the private consciences of citizens.
But that cannot be helped: the remedy is, not to license everybody to thwart the law if they
please, but to make laws that will command the public assent, and not to deal cruelly and stupidly
with lawbreakers. Everybody disapproves of burglars; but the modern burglar, when caught and
overpowered by a householder usually appeals, and often, let us hope, with success, to his
captor not to deliver him over to the useless horrors of penal servitude. In other cases the
lawbreaker escapes because those who could give him up do not consider his breech of the law
a guilty action. Sometimes, even, private tribunals are formed in opposition to the official
tribunals; and these private tribunals employ assassins as executioners, as was done, for example,
by Mahomet before he had established his power officially, and by the Ribbon lodges of Ireland
in their long struggle with the landlords. Under such circumstances, the assassin goes free
although everybody in the district knows who he is and what he has done. They do not betray
him, partly because they justify him exactly as the regular Government justifies its official
executioner, and partly because they would themselves be assassinated if they betrayed him:
another method learnt from the official government. Given a tribunal, employing a slayer who
has no personal quarrel with the slain; and there is clearly no moral difference between official
and unofficial killing.

In short, all men are anarchists with regard to laws which are against their consciences, either
in the preamble or in the penalty. In London our worst anarchists are the magistrates, because
many of them are so old and ignorant that when they are called upon to administer any law that
is based on ideas or knowledge less than half a century old, they disagree with it, and being
mere ordinary homebred private Englishmen without any respect for law in the abstract, naively
set the example of violating it. In this instance the man lags behind the law; but when the
law lags behind the man, he becomes equally an anarchist. When some huge change in social conditions,
such as the industrial revolution of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, throws our legal
and industrial institutions out of date, Anarchism becomes almost a religion. The whole force
of the most energetic geniuses of the time in philosophy, economics, and art, concentrates
itself on demonstrations and reminders that morality and law are only conventions, fallible
and continually obsolescing. Tragedies in which the heroes are bandits, and comedies in which
law-abiding and conventionally moral folk are compelled to satirize themselves by outraging
the conscience of the spectators every time they do their duty, appear simultaneously with
economic treatises entitled "What is Property? Theft!" and with histories of "The Conflict
between Religion and Science."

Now this is not a healthy state of things. The advantages of living in society are proportionate,
not to the freedom of the individual from a code, but to the complexity and subtlety of the
code he is prepared not only to accept but to uphold as a matter of such vital importance that
a lawbreaker at large is hardly to be tolerated on any plea. Such an attitude becomes impossible
when the only men who can make themselves heard and remembered throughout the world spend all
their energy in raising our gorge against current law, current morality, current respect ability,
and legal property. The ordinary man, uneducated in social theory even when he is schooled
in Latin verse, cannot be set against all the laws of his country and yet persuaded to regard
law in the abstract as vitally necessary to society. Once he is brought to repudiate the laws
and institutions he knows, he will repudiate the very conception of law and the very groundwork
of institutions, ridiculing human rights, extolling brainless methods as "historical," and
tolerating nothing except pure empiricism in conduct, with dynamite as the basis of politics
and vivisection as the basis of science. That is hideous; but what is to be done? Here am I,
for instance, by class a respectable man, by common sense a hater of waste and disorder, by
intellectual constitution legally minded to the verge of pedantry, and by temperament apprehensive
and economically disposed to the limit of old-maidishness; yet I am, and have always been,
and shall now always be, a revolutionary writer, because our laws make law impossible; our
liberties destroy all freedom; our property is organized robbery; our morality is an impudent
hypocrisy; our wisdom is administered by inexperienced or malexperienced dupes, our power wielded
by cowards and weaklings, and our honor false in all its points. I am an enemy of the existing
order for good reasons; but that does not make my attacks any less encouraging or helpful to
people who are its enemies for bad reasons. The existing order may shriek that if I tell the
truth about it, some foolish person may drive it to become still worse by trying to assassinate
it. I cannot help that, even if I could see what worse it could do than it is already doing.
And the disadvantage of that worst even from its own point of view is that society, with all
its prisons and bayonets and whips and ostracisms and starvations, is powerless in the face
of the Anarchist who is prepared to sacrifice his own life in the battle with it. Our natural
safety from the cheap and devastating explosives which every Russian student can make, and
every Russian grenadier has learnt to handle in Manchuria, lies in the fact that brave and
resolute men, when they are rascals, will not risk their skins for the good of humanity, and,
when they are sympathetic enough to care for humanity, abhor murder, and never commit it until
their consciences are outraged beyond endurance. The remedy is, simply not to outrage their
consciences.

Do not be afraid that they will not make allowances. All men make very large allowances indeed
before they stake their own lives in a war to the death with society. Nobody demands or expects
the millennium. But there are two things that must be set right, or we shall perish, like Rome,
of soul atrophy disguised as empire. The first is, that the daily ceremony of dividing the
wealth of the country among its inhabitants shall be so conducted that no crumb shall go to
any able-bodied adults who are not producing by their personal exertions not only a full equivalent
for what they take, but a surplus sufficient to provide for their superannuation and pay back
the debt due for their nurture.

The second is that the deliberate infliction of malicious injuries which now goes on under
the name of punishment be abandoned; so that the thief, the ruffian, the gambler, and the beggar,
may without inhumanity be handed over to the law, and made to understand that a State which
is too humane to punish will also be too thrifty to waste the life of honest men in watching
or restraining dishonest ones. That is why we do not imprison dogs. We even take our chance
of their first bite. But if a dog delights to bark and bite, it goes to the lethal chamber.
That seems to me sensible. To allow the dog to expiate his bite by a period of torment, and
then let him loose in a much more savage condition (for the chain makes a dog savage) to bite
again and expiate again, having meanwhile spent a great deal of human life and happiness in
the task of chaining and feeding and tormenting him, seems to me idiotic and superstitious.
Yet that is what we do to men who bark and bite and steal. It would be far more sensible to
put up with their vices, as we put up with their illnesses, until they give more trouble than
they are worth, at which point we should, with many apologies and expressions of sympathy,
and some generosity in complying with their last wishes, then, place them in the lethal chamber
and get rid of them. Under no circumstances should they be allowed to expiate their misdeeds
by a manufactured penalty, to subscribe to a charity, or to compensate the victims. If there
is to be no punishment there can be no forgiveness. We shall never have real moral responsibility
until everyone knows that his deeds are irrevocable, and that his life depends on his usefulness.
Hitherto, alas! humanity has never dared face these hard facts. We frantically scatter conscience
money and invent systems of conscience banking, with expiatory penalties, atonements, redemptions,
salvations, hospital subscription lists and what not, to enable us to contract-out of the moral
code. Not content with the old scapegoat and sacrificial lamb, we deify human saviors, and
pray to miraculous virgin intercessors. We attribute mercy to the inexorable; soothe our consciences
after committing murder by throwing ourselves on the bosom of divine love; and shrink even
from our own gallows because we are forced to admit that it, at least, is irrevocable--as if
one hour of imprisonment were not as irrevocable as any execution!

If a man cannot look evil in the face without illusion, he will never know what it really is,
or combat it effectually. The few men who have been able (relatively) to do this have been
called cynics, and have sometimes had an abnormal share of evil in themselves, corresponding
to the abnormal strength of their minds; but they have never done mischief unless they intended
to do it. That is why great scoundrels have been beneficent rulers whilst amiable and privately
harmless monarchs have ruined their countries by trusting to the hocus-pocus of innocence and
guilt, reward and punishment, virtuous indignation and pardon, instead of standing up to the
facts without either malice or mercy. Major Barbara stands up to Bill Walker in that way, with
the result that the ruffian who cannot get hated, has to hate himself. To relieve this agony
be tries to get punished; but the Salvationist whom he tries to provoke is as merciless as
Barbara, and only prays for him. Then he tries to pay, but can get nobody to take his money.
His doom is the doom of Cain, who, failing to find either a savior, a policeman, or an almoner
to help him to pretend that his brother's blood no longer cried from the ground, had to live
and die a murderer. Cain took care not to commit another murder, unlike our railway shareholders
(I am one) who kill and maim shunters by hundreds to save the cost of automatic couplings,
and make atonement by annual subscriptions to deserving charities. Had Cain been allowed to
pay off his score, he might possibly have killed Adam and Eve for the mere sake of a second
luxurious reconciliation with God afterwards. Bodger, you may depend on it, will go on to the
end of his life poisoning people with bad whisky, because he can always depend on the Salvation
Army or the Church of England to negotiate a redemption for him in consideration of a trifling
percentage of his profits. There is a third condition too, which must be fulfilled before the
great teachers of the world will cease to scoff at its religions. Creeds must become intellectually
honest. At present there is not a single credible established religion in the world. That is
perhaps the most stupendous fact in the whole world-situation. This play of mine, Major Barbara,
is, I hope, both true and inspired; but whoever says that it all happened, and that faith in
it and understanding of it consist in believing that it is a record of an actual occurrence,
is, to speak according to Scripture, a fool and a liar, and is hereby solemnly denounced and
cursed as such by me, the author, to all posterity.

London, June 1906.