THE ANTI-SLAVERY EXAMINER PART 1 OF 4

BY The American Anti-Slavery Society

1836

    No. 1. To the People of the United States; or, To Such Americans
    As Value Their Rights, and Dare to Maintain Them.

    No. 2. Appeal to the Christian Women of the South.

    No. 2. Appeal to the Christian Women of the South. Revised and
    Corrected.

    No. 3. Letter of Gerrit Smith to Rev. James Smylie, of the State
    of Mississippi.

    No. 4. The Bible Against Slavery. An Inquiry Into the
    Patriarchal and Mosaic Systems on the Subject of Human Rights.

    No. 4. The Bible Against Slavery. An Inquiry Into the
    Patriarchal and Mosaic Systems on the Subject of Human Rights.
    Third Edition--Revised.

    No. 4. The Bible Against Slavery. An Inquiry Into the
    Patriarchal and Mosaic Systems on the Subject of Human Rights.
    Fourth Edition--Enlarged.

    No. 5. Power of Congress Over the District of Columbia.

    No. 5. Power of Congress Over the District of Columbia. With
    Additions by the Author.

THE ANTI-SLAVERY EXAMINER

VOL. I. AUGUST, 1836. NO. 1.

TO THE

PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES;

OR, TO SUCH AMERICANS AS VALUE THEIR RIGHTS, AND

DARE TO MAINTAIN THEM.

FELLOW COUNTRYMEN!

A crisis has arrived, in which rights the most important which civil society can acknowledge,
and which have been acknowledged by our Constitution and laws, in terms the most explicit which
language can afford, are set at nought by men, whom your favor has invested with a brief authority.
By what standard is your liberty of conscience, of speech, and of the press, now measured?
Is it by those glorious charters you have inherited from your fathers, and which your present
rulers have called Heaven to witness, they would preserve inviolate? Alas! another standard
has been devised, and if we would know what rights are conceded to us by our own servants,
we must consult the COMPACT by which the South engages on certain conditions to give its trade
and votes to Northern men. All rights not allowed by this compact, we now hold by sufferance,
and our Governors and Legislatures avow their readiness to deprive us of them, whenever in
their opinion, legislation on the subject shall be "necessary[A]." This compact is not indeed
published to the world, under the hands and seals of the contracting parties, but it is set
forth in official messages,--in resolutions of the State and National Legislatures--in the
proceedings of popular meetings, and in acts of lawless violence. The temples of the Almighty
have been sacked, because the worshipers did not conform their consciences to the compact[B].
Ministers of the gospel have been dragged as criminals from the altar to the bar, because they
taught the people from the Bible, doctrines proscribed by the compact[C]. Hundreds of free
citizens, peaceably assembled to express their sentiments, have, because such an expression
was forbidden by the compact, been forcibly dispersed, and the chief actor in this invasion
on the freedom of speech, instead of being punished for a breach of the peace, was rewarded
for his fidelity to the compact with an office of high trust and honor[D].

[Footnote A: See the Messages of the Governors of New-York and Connecticut, the resolutions
of the New-York Legislature, and the bill introduced into the Legislature of Rhode Island.]

[Footnote B: Churches in New-York attacked by the mob in 1834.]

[Footnote C: See two cases within the last twelve months in New Hampshire.]

[Footnote D: Samuel Beardsley, Esq. the leader of the Utica riot, was shortly afterwards appointed
Attorney General of the state of New-York.]

       *       *       *       *       *

POSTAGE--This Periodical contains one sheet, postage under 100 miles, is 1 1-2 cents over 100
miles, 2 1-2 cents.

"The freedom of the press--the palladium of liberty," was once a household proverb. Now, a
printing office[A] is entered by ruffians, and its types scattered in the highway, because
disobedient to the compact. A Grand Jury, sworn to "present all things truly as they come to
their knowledge," refuse to indict the offenders; and a senator in Congress rises in his place,
and appeals to the outrage in the printing office, and the conduct of the Grand Jury as evidence
of the good faith with which the people of the state of New York were resolved to observe the
compact[B].

[Footnote A: Office of the Utica Standard and Democrat newspaper.]

[Footnote B: See speech of the Hon. Silas Wright in the U.S. Senate of Feb. 1836.]

The Executive Magistrate of the American Union, unmindful of his obligation to execute the
laws for the equal benefit of his fellow citizens, has sanctioned a censorship of the press,
by which papers incompatible with the compact are excluded from the southern mails, and he
has officially advised Congress to do by law, although in violation of the Constitution, what
he had himself virtually done already in despite of both. The invitation has indeed been rejected,
but by the Senate of the United States only, after a portentous struggle--a struggle which
distinctly exhibited the political conditions of the compact, as well as the fidelity with
which those conditions are observed by a northern candidate for the Presidency. While in compliance
with these conditions, a powerful minority in the Senate were forging fetters for the PRESS,
the House of Representatives were employed in breaking down the right of PETITION. On the 26th
May last, the following resolution, reported by a committee was adopted by the House, viz.

    "Resolved, that all Petitions, Memorials, Resolutions and
    Propositions relating in any way, or to any extent whatever, to
    the subject of Slavery, shall without being either printed or
    referred, be laid on the table, and that no further action
    whatever shall be had thereon." Yeas, 117. Nays, 68.

Bear with us, fellow countrymen, while we call your attention to the outrage on your rights,
the contempt of personal obligations and the hardened cruelty involved in this detestable resolution.
Condemn us not for the harshness of our language, before you hear our justification. We shall
speak only the truth, but we shall speak it as freemen.

The right of petition is founded in the very institution of civil government, and has from
time immemorial been acknowledged as among the unquestionable privileges of our English ancestors.
This right springs from the great truth that government is established for the benefit of the
governed; and it forms the medium by which the people acquaint their rulers with their wants
and their grievances. So accustomed were the Americans to the exercise of this right, even
during their subjection to the British crown, that, on the formation of the Federal Constitution,
the Convention not conceiving that it could be endangered, made no provision for its security.
But in the very first Congress that assembled under the new Government, the omission was repaired.
It was thought some case might possibly occur, in which this right might prove troublesome
to a dominant faction, who would endeavor to stifle it. An amendment was therefore proposed
and adopted, by which Congress is restrained from making any law abridging "the right of the
People, peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances."
Had it not been for this prudent jealousy of our Fathers, instead of the resolution I have
transcribed, we should have had a LAW, visiting with pains and penalties, all who dared to
petition the Federal Government, in behalf of the victims of oppression, held in bondage by
its authority. The present resolution cannot indeed consign such petitioners to the prison
or the scaffold, but it makes the right to petition a congressional boon, to be granted or
withheld at pleasure, and in the present case effectually withholds it, by tendering it nugatory.

Petitions are to inform the Government of the wishes of the people, and by calling forth the
action of the Legislature, to inform the constituents how far their wishes are respected by
their representatives. The information thus mutually given and received is essential to a faithful
and enlightened exercise of the right of legislation on the one hand, and of suffrage on the
other. But the resolution we are considering, provides that no petition in relation to slavery,
shall be printed for the information of the members, nor referred to a committee to ascertain
the truth of its statements; nor shall any vote be taken, in regard to it, by which the People
may learn the sentiments of their representatives.

If Congress may thus dispose of petitions on one subject, they may make the same disposition
of petitions on any and every other subject. Our representatives are bound by oath, not to
pass any law abridging the right of petition, but if this resolution is constitutional, they
may order every petition to be delivered to their door-keeper, and by him to be committed to
the flames; for why preserve petitions on which no action can be had? Had the resolution been
directed to petitions for an object palpably unconstitutional, it would still have been without
excuse. The construction of the Constitution is a matter of opinion, and every citizen has
a right to express that opinion in a petition, or otherwise.

But this usurpation is aggravated by the almost universal admission that Congress does possess
the constitutional power to legislate on the subject of slavery in the District of Columbia
and the Territories. No wonder that a distinguished statesman refused to sanction the right
of the House to pass such a resolution by even voting against it[A]. The men who perpetrated
this outrage had sworn to support the Constitution, and will they hereafter plead at the bar
of their Maker, that they had kept their oath, because they had abridged the right of petition
by a resolution, and not by law! 

Those exercises which are both recreative and useful are preferable. Gardening may be made a delight
instead of a hardship, if the child is allowed to enjoy the fruits of his labor. Let him sell
the vegetables he raises to the family, and, if there is an excess,
to the neighbors, for pocket money.

He will enjoy purchasing his own clothing even more than using the
money solely for his pleasures.

Healthful
sports should be encouraged, and games, such as chess, that develops the intellect. There are
many card games, such as "Authors," that impart useful instruction in literature, history,
natural science, business, etc. Playing these in the home is a good thing no less for parent
than child. Many a mother has acquired a well-rounded culture after her marriage through her determination
to "keep ahead of the children" in their studies and intellectual
activities.

The child should be early accustomed to take cold baths, and then run about naked in a room under
the impulse given by the tingling glow of reaction. If a play is made of the bath the habit will
be formed for life, and in this way, one of the mother's chief struggles, to make the children
clean themselves, will be abolished. It is natural for a child to get dirty, and therefore it should
be made as habitual an impulse for them to get clean again.

Of all such habits, keeping the teeth clean is most important. Children's teeth are a chief
source of anxiety to the mother even before they make their appearance.

Troubles in teething are generally due to innutritious and illy-digested food. Sometimes, however,
when the food is all right, the teeth will still have difficulty
in coming through the gums.

Whenever the mother observes that her crying child refuses to bring its gums together on anything,
she should examine them, and, if they are swollen, have them lanced.

The "milk-teeth," even though they are temporary, should be looked after carefully, as their decay
will often spread to the coming permanent teeth. Besides, they should be preserved as long
as possible, and in the best condition, to aid in mastication. Accordingly, young children should
be taught regularly to rinse out their mouths and to use a tooth-brush
and tooth-powder.

A child should run barefoot as much as conditions and climate permit. When it wears shoes, these
should conform as much as possible to the shape of the foot. With such footwear, the active child
may form for life the habit of a natural gait, especially if parents will point out the beauty
and advantages of this, and praise the men and women of their acquaintance who possess it. It
is about the time when a girl is learning Virgil in the High School that she is tempted by
vanity and the desire to be "like the other girls" to put on French
heels.

Then it is that the teacher or mother should quote to her the line
of the Aeneid about Venus: "The true goddess is shown by her gait,"
and save her from an irreparable folly.

If mothers
will remember that children are not dolls, and that mothers are not
children to take pleasure in bedecking them, they will need no advice
about dressing their little ones.

There is only one rule for her to follow: She should consult the
comfort and health of the child, and, as far as consistent with these,
the convenience to herself.

It may be "cute" to dress a child like a miniature man or woman, but it is cruel to the child.
There is no reason for distinguishing sex by dress in young children. "Jumpers" form the best dress
for either a little boy or little girl in which to play. Even when they are older and a skirt
distinguishes the girl, bloomers or knickerbockers of the same material beneath, approach the
ideal of dress for comfort, health and decency more nearly than white petticoat and drawers. Indeed,
the skirt is best when it is a part of a blouse, which is also a suitable dress for a boy. A child
should never be tortured with a large or stiff hat. The heads of children come up to the middles
of men and women, and such a hat will be crushed in a crowd, and its poor little wearer placed
in mortal terror. Indeed, children should be allowed to go bareheaded as much as possible,
and, when they wear hats, have these simple in shape and soft in
material.

The plain cap is the best head covering for a boy. The girl's may be a little more ornamental,
especially in color. The universal seizure by the sex upon the boy's "Tam o'Shanter" as peculiarly
suited for a play and school-hat, is therefore right and proper.

For a more showy style, lingerie hats are justified. But the most beautiful and appropriate form of
the "best hat" for a little girl is one of uniform material, straw, cloth or felt, with simple
crown, and wide, and more or less soft brim, ornamented by a ribbon alone. The addition of a
single flower may be permitted, though this is like the admission of the camel's nose into the
tent,-- it may lead to the entrance of the hump-- the monstrosity
of the modern woman's bonnet, which of late years has by terms imitated
a flower garden, a vegetable garden, an orchard, and, finally, with
the Chanticler fad, a poultry-yard.

The knickerbocker and the short skirt are aesthetic, that is eye-pleasing, because they mark a natural
division of the body at the knee. There is an artistic justification, therefore, in mothers keeping
their sons out of "long pants" as long as possible, and in fathers (for it is they who are the
chief objectors) in opposing their daughters'desire to don the dust-sweeping skirt that marks
attainment to womanhood. Here, however, it is proper that the wishes of the younger generation
triumph. It is a social instinct to conform to the custom of one's fellows,
and the children have reached "the age of consent" in matters of
fashion.

Their fathers and mothers may lend their influence to abolish foolish customs, or to modify
them in the direction of wisdom, but it is best that this be in their capacity as citizens, and
not as parents. Certainly this is a duty, not a sin. "Cleanliness is indeed next to godliness."--
JOHN WESLEY-- On Dress. In all her multitudinous concerns the housekeeper should not forget
her duties toward herself. Many a mother in looking out that her children are a credit to the
family in dress and manners and care of their persons, gives up all thought of standing as an
exemplar of these things among the ladies of the community. This
is a sacrifice of self that is not commendable, since it defeats
its purpose.

The mother should always be herself an illustration of the lessons she teaches, else they will
not be seriously considered. It is impossible here to give more than a few general suggestions as to
the dress and millinery of the mother.

She should have a variety of simple house-dresses, suited to her various duties, and these should
be kept as neat as possible.

Each should be made for its purpose, not converted to it from one of her fine dresses. Nothing gives
an impression of slatternliness more than the wearing about the house of a frayed and soiled
garment "that has seen better days." The best dresses and hats of a woman, even one who goes little
"into society," should also be sufficient in number and varied in style to suit the changing seasons
of the year, and the widely differing occasions for use which occur in every station of life. The
purchase of several good articles of attire rather than one or two
is economical in the end.

There is not only the obvious mathematical reason that, if one dress wears a year, four dresses
must be bought in four years, whether this is done simultaneously or successively, but there is
the physical reason that a dress, like a person, that has regular periods of rest, becomes restored
in quality. Accordingly, all dresses should be laid very carefully away when not in use, and
the proper means taken to refresh them.

Unfortunately the arbitrary and senseless changes in fashion render this practice hard to follow.
No woman likes to look out of style. However, by a little cleverness
garments and hats may be adapted to the prevailing mode (although the
arbiters of fashion, in the interests of manufacturers, try by violent
changes of style to render this impracticable).

These adaptations may not be in the height of fashion, but they will be in good form and taste.
Indeed, it is never good taste to follow extremes of style. The well-known lines of Pope on the
subject hold true in every age: ".... in fashions the rule will hold, Alike fantastic if too
new or old; Be not the first by whom the new are tried, Nor yet the last to lay the old aside."
Some of the best-dressed women in artistic and musical circles design their clothes wholly
to suit their personal appearance, with such success that their independence
of the prevailing mode of large or small hats or sleeves, striped
or checked fabrics, etc., wins universal admiration.

Remember that a dress or a hat is never a "creation" in itself. The wearer must always be considered.
Short, stout women should avoid horizontal stripes or lines of ornamentation that call attention to breadth,
and should choose those perpendicular stripes and lines which tend to give an impression of height
and slenderness. A hat lining may be used to put rosiness into a pale face, and a color may be
selected for a dress which will neutralize too much redness in the
skin.

But these are matters of common knowledge to all women. The trouble is, that in their desire
to be "in style," many women forget, or even deliberately ignore
these fundamental principles of art in dress.

Fondness for a particular color, as a color, causes many women to
wear it, regardless of its relation to their complexion; and there
have been women of mystical mind who, believing that each quality
of soul had its correspondent in a particular hue, wore those colors
which they thought were significant of their chief traits of character--
with weird results, as you may imagine.

It is unnecessary, in this book of "practical suggestions," to discuss
in detail the question of etiquette, which may be defined as "the
prevailing fashion in social intercourse." Styles in visiting cards
change from year to year, and the social usages of one city differ from
another.

If it is required to know these, the latest special work on etiquette should be procured. The general
principles of good manners, however, which lie at the basis of etiquette, just as good morals form
the foundation of law, although there are discrepancies in both cases,
may appropriately be presented here, though briefly.

Good manners and good morals alike follow the Golden Rule: "Whatsoever ye would that others
should do to you, do ye even so to them." Egotism and selfishness are the bane of both. True politeness
consists in considering the pleasure of others as a thing in itself, without regard to your own
advantage. If an attention is paid, a gift given, a service rendered, these should be done solely
for the recipient's happiness, not with a view to his making a return in kind, possibly with interest.
It is good manners to call on people who will be pleased to see you; not on those whom you wish
to see, but to whom you and your affairs are of no concern. A first visit
to a newcomer in town is right and proper. A stranger is presumed
to be desirous of making friends, but the first call ought to indicate
whether or not he and you have that community of interest which is
essential to friendship.

If you are the newcomer, it is your duty to show your appreciation of the attention by returning
first calls, but you should so act that your hosts will feel free to continue the acquaintance if it will
be agreeable to them, or discontinue it if it is not. Indeed, in every situation you should give the other
party this choice. Friendship is one of the most valuable forms of
social energy, and it should carefully be conserved.

Yet more than any other form it is wasted, because of a false regard for social conventions. At how
many calls are both parties bored! How many persons-- women in particular, who have not the man's freedom
in selecting associates-- continue in the treadmill round of an uncongenial
social circle!

To escape from this may require the special exercise of will, and the incurring of criticism, but
these ought to be assumed. However, in most cases, a woman may gradually escape from the distasteful
circle and form new and more congenial friends without remark. After
the brightening effects on mind and spirits of social intercourse
comes the advantage of toning up the personal appearance.

A decent self-respect in dress should always be flavored with a touch of pride, for this is an
excellent preservative. To have a proper pride, there must be the incentive of the presence of
other people whose admiration we may win. Pride in dress is naturally conjoined with the care
of the person. There is an excellent term for this, which, though borrowed from the stable,
carries with it only sweet and wholesome suggestions.

It is "well-groomed." A well-groomed woman is not only a well-gowned woman, but one who, like
a favorite mare, is always spick and span in her person, and happy in her quiet consciousness
of it. And every woman, whether she possesses a maid or not, indeed, whether she has fine gowns
or not, may win the admiration of all her associates by her "grooming." We may live without poetry,
music and art; We may live without conscience, and live without heart; We may live without friends; we
may live without books; But civilized man cannot live without cooks. ("OWEN MEREDITH")-- Lucile.
All the other duties of the housewife are subsidiary to the great subject of preparing food
for the household. The care of the home, the care of health, etc.,
all either bear upon this work or require ability to perform it.

With decks cleared for action, therefore, we will proceed to discuss the fundamental principles of cookery,
the application of which, in the form of specific recipes, will follow in a separate chapter.
In the limited space which can be here devoted to the subject, it will be assumed that the housewife
is a cook, and can follow plain directions, and that she is familiar
with the methods of preparing the ordinary meals that are universal
throughout the country.

It will be also taken for granted that she has one or more general cook
books containing a wide variety of recipes for the making of bread
in its various forms, cakes, pies, omelettes, salads, desserts, etc.,
and the discussion will be confined to meats, wherein, owing to advancing
prices, new economical methods of preparation are coming into practice,
based upon a scientific knowledge of food values.

Vegetarianism and fruitarianism are being adopted by many households,
less as a matter of principle than as a recourse from what are considered
the present prohibitive prices of meats.

Now the proper way to solve a problem is not to evade it, but to face
it and conquer it, and this is eminently true of the meat problem.

Granted that the proportion of family income devoted to food cannot
be increased, it is a fact that, by an intelligent study of the food
value of the different kinds of meat, and of economic ways of preparing
them, the expense of living may be maintained at the former rate,
if not, indeed, materially lessened, with a great increase in both
the nutritive value and the palatability of the family meals.

The "new nationalism" of America, which, after all, is only the
turning to newer needs of the old nationalism that gave homesteads
to the people and supplied them with improved methods of agriculture,
is rightly taking the lead in the scientific education of the housekeeper
in this household economy.

With special regard to the requirements of the people in these days
of rising prices, especially of meats, the United States Department
of Agriculture has issued a booklet, prepared by C. F. Langworthy,
Ph. D., and Caroline L. Hunt, A. B., experts in nutrition connected
with the Department, which gives authoritative information about the
cheaper cuts of meat and the preparation of inexpensive meat dishes.

This has become generally known as "The Government Cook Book." By
the permission of the Department we here present portions of the
information it contains, together with those recipes which best illustrate
the principles of meat cookery for the home table.

VALUE OF MEAT AS FOOD Considering the fact that meat forms such an important
part of the diet, and the further fact that the price of meat, as of other
foods, has advanced in recent years, it is natural for housekeepers
to seek more economical methods of preparing meat for the table, and
to turn their thoughts toward the less expensive cuts and ask what
economy is involved in their use, how they may be prepared, and whether
the less expensive dishes are as nutritious and as thoroughly and
easily digested as the costlier ones.

The value of meat as food depends chiefly on the presence of two classes of
nutrients, (1) protein or nitrogenous compounds, and (2) fat. The mineral
matter it contains, particularly the phosphorus compounds, is also
of much importance, though it is small in quantity.

       Protein is essential for the construction and maintenance of the
body, and both protein and fat yield energy for muscular power and
for keeping up the temperature of the body.

Fat is especially important as a source of energy. It is possible
to combine the fat and protein of animal foods so as to meet the
requirements of the body with such materials only, and this is done
in the Arctic regions, where vegetable food is lacking; but in general
it is considered that diet is better and more wholesome when, in addition
to animal foods, such as meat, which is rich in proteins and fats,
it contains vegetable foods, which are richest in sugar, starch, and
other carbohydrates.

Both animal and vegetable foods supply the mineral substances which
are essential to body growth and development.

The difference between the various cuts of meat consists chiefly in
amount of fat and consequently in the fuel value to the body. So far
as the proteins are concerned, i. e., the substances which build
and repair the important tissues of the body, very little difference
is found.

    
    This general uniformity in proportion of protein makes it easy for
    the housekeeper who does not wish to enter into
    the complexities of food values to make sure that her family is
    getting enough of this nutrient. From the investigations carried
    on in the Office of Experiment Stations the conclusion has been drawn
that of the total amount of protein needed every day, which is usually
estimated to be 100 grams or 3-1/ 2 ounces, one-half or 50 grams is
taken in the form of animal food, which of course includes milk, eggs,
poultry, fish, etc., as well as meat.

The remainder is taken in the form of bread and other cereal foods
and beans and other vegetables. The portion of cooked meat which
may be referred to as an ordinary "helping," 3 to 5 ounces (equivalent
to 3-1/ 2 to 5-1/ 2 ounces of raw meat), may be considered to contain
some 19 to 29 grams of protein, or approximately half of the amount which
is ordinarily secured from animal food.

An egg or a glass of milk contains about 8 grams more, so the housekeeper who gives each adult member
of her family a helping of meat each day and eggs, milk, or cheese, together with the puddings
or other dishes which contain eggs and milk, can feel sure that she is supplying sufficient protein, for
the remainder necessary will be supplied by bread, cereals, and other vegetable food. The nutrition
investigations of the Office of Experiment Stations show also that there is practically no
difference between the various cuts of meat or the meats from different animals with respect to
either the thoroughness or the ease with which they are digested. Therefore,
those who wish to use the cheaper cuts need not feel that in so doing their
families are less well nourished than by the more expensive meats.

RELATIVE VALUES AND PRICES OF THE CUTS OF MEAT The relative retail prices of the various cuts
usually bear a direct relation to the favor with which they are regarded by the majority of
persons, the juicy tender cuts of good flavor selling for the higher prices. When porterhouse
steak sells for 25 cents a pound, it may be assumed that in town
or village markets round steak would ordinarily sell for about 15
cents, and chuck ribs, one of the best cuts of the forequarter, for
10 cents.

This makes it appear that the chuck ribs are less than half as expensive as porterhouse steak and
two-thirds as expensive as the round. But apparent economy is not always real economy, and in
this case the bones in the three cuts should be taken into account. Of the chuck ribs, more than one-half
is bone or other materials usually classed under the head of "waste" or "refuse." Of the round, one-twelfth
is waste, and of the porterhouse one-eighth. In buying the chuck, then, the housewife gets, at
the prices assumed, less than one-half pound of food for 10 cents, making the net price of the
edible portion 22 cents a pound; in buying round, she gets eleven-twelfths
of a pound for 15 cents, making the net value about 16-1/ 2 cents;
in buying porterhouse, she gets seven-eighths of a pound for 25 cents,
making the net value about 28-1/ 2 cents a pound.

       The relative prices, therefore, of the edible portions are 22, 16-1/
2, and 28-1/ 2 cents; or to put it in a different way, a dollar at
the prices assumed will buy 4-1/ 2 pounds of solid meat from the cut,
known as chuck, 6 pounds of such meat from the round, and only 3-1/
2 pounds of such meat from the porterhouse.

To this should be added the fact that because of the way in which
porterhouse is usually cooked no nutriment is obtained from the bone,
while by the long slow process by which the cheaper cuts, except when
they are broiled or fried, are prepared the gelatin, fat, and flavoring
material of the bone are extracted. The bones of meats that are cooked
in water, therefore, are in a sense not all refuse, for they contain
some food which may be secured by proper cookery. It is true, of course,
that the bones of the steaks may be used for soup making, and that
the nourishment may thus be utilized, but this must be done by a separate
process from that of cooking the steak itself.

TEXTURE AND FLAVOR OF MEAT Although meats vary greatly in the amount of fat which they contain
and to a much less degree in their protein content, the chief difference to be noted between
the cheaper and more expensive cuts is not so much in their nutritive value as in their texture
and flavor. All muscle consists of tiny fibers which are tender in young animals and in those
parts of older animals in which there has been little muscular strain. Under the backbone in
the hind quarter is the place from which the tenderest meat comes. This is usually called the
tenderloin. Sometimes in beef and also in pork it is taken out whole and sometimes it is left
to be cut up with the rest of the loin. In old animals, and in those parts of the body where there has
been much muscular action, the neck and the legs for example, the muscle fibers are tough and
hard. I am well aware that prophecy has often been urged as an excuse for
Slavery, but be not deceived, the fulfillment of prophecy will not cover one sin in the awful
day of account. Hear what our Saviour says on this subject; "it must needs be that offences
come, but woe unto that man through whom they come"--Witness some fulfillment of this declaration
in the tremendous destruction of Jerusalem, occasioned by that most nefarious of all crimes
the crucifixion of the Son of God. Did the fact of that event having been foretold, exculpate
the Jews from sin in perpetrating it; No--for hear what the Apostle Peter says to them on this
subject, "Him being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, ye have
taken, and by wicked hands have crucified and slain." Other striking instances might be adduced,
but these will suffice.

But it has been urged that the patriarchs held slaves, and therefore, slavery is right. Do
you really believe that patriarchal servitude was like American slavery? Can you believe it?
If so, read the history of these primitive fathers of the church and be undeceived. Look at
Abraham, though so great a man, going to the herd himself and fetching a calf from thence and
serving it up with his own hands, for the entertainment of his guests. Look at Sarah, that
princess as her name signifies, baking cakes upon the hearth. If the servants they had were
like Southern slaves, would they have performed such comparatively menial offices for themselves?
Hear too the plaintive lamentation of Abraham when he feared he should have no son to bear
his name down to posterity. "Behold thou hast given me no seed, &c., one born in my house is
mine heir." From this it appears that one of his servants was to inherit his immense estate.
Is this like Southern slavery? I leave it to your own good sense and candor to decide. Besides,
such was the footing upon which Abraham was with his servants, that he trusted them with arms.
Are slaveholders willing to put swords and pistols into the hands of their slaves? He was as
a father among his servants; what are planters and masters generally among theirs? When the
institution of circumcision was established, Abraham was commanded thus; "He that is eight
days old shall be circumcised among you, every man-child in your generations; he that is born
in the house, or bought with money of any stranger which is not of thy seed." And to render
this command with regard to his servants still more impressive it is repeated in the very next
verse; and herein we may perceive the great care which was taken by God to guard the rights
of servants even under this "dark dispensation." What too was the testimony given to the faithfulness
of this eminent patriarch. "For I know him that he will command his children and his household
after him, and they shall keep the way of the Lord to do justice and judgment." Now my dear
friends many of you believe that circumcision has been superseded by baptism in the Church;
Are you careful to have all that are born in your house or bought with money of any stranger,
baptized? Are you as faithful as Abraham to command your household to keep the way of the Lord?
I leave it to your own consciences to decide. Was patriarchal servitude then like American Slavery?

But I shall be told, God sanctioned Slavery, yea commanded Slavery under the Jewish Dispensation.
Let us examine this subject calmly and prayerfully. I admit that a species of servitude was
permitted to the Jews, but in studying the subject I have been struck with wonder and admiration
at perceiving how carefully the servant was guarded from violence, injustice and wrong. I will
first inform you how these servants became servants, for I think this a very important part
of our subject. From consulting Horne, Calmet and the Bible, I find there were six different
ways by which the Hebrews became servants legally.

1. If reduced to extreme poverty, a Hebrew might sell himself, i.e. his services, for six years,
in which case he received the purchase money himself. Lev. xxv, 39.

2. A father might sell his children as servants, i.e. his daughters, in which circumstance
it was understood the daughter was to be the wife or daughter-in-law of the man who bought
her, and the father received the price. In other words, Jewish women were sold as white women
were in the first settlement of Virginia--as wives, not as slaves. Ex. xxi, 7.

3. Insolvent debtors might be delivered to their creditors as servants. 2 Kings iv, 1.

4. Thieves not able to make restitution for their thefts, were sold for the benefit of the
injured person. Ex. xxii, 3.

5. They might be born in servitude. Ex. xxi, 4.

6. If a Hebrew had sold himself to a rich Gentile, he might be redeemed by one of his brethren
at any time the money was offered; and he who redeemed him, was not to take advantage of the
favor thus conferred, and rule over him with rigor. Lev. xxv, 47-55.

Before going into an examination of the laws by which these servants were protected, I would
just ask whether American slaves have become slaves in any of the ways in which the Hebrews
became servants. Did they sell themselves into slavery and receive the purchase money into
their own hands? No! Did they become insolvent, and by their own imprudence subject themselves
to be sold as slaves? No! Did they steal the property of another, and were they sold to make
restitution for their crimes? No! Did their present masters, as an act of kindness, redeem
them from some heathen tyrant to whom they had sold themselves in the dark hour of adversity?
No! Were they born in slavery? No! No! not according to Jewish Law, for the servants who were
born in servitude among them, were born of parents who had sold themselves for six years: Ex.
xxi, 4. Were the female slaves of the South sold by their fathers? How shall I answer this
question? Thousands and tens of thousands never were, their fathers never have received the
poor compensation of silver or gold for the tears and toils, the suffering, and anguish, and
hopeless bondage of their daughters. They labor day by day, and year by year, side by side,
in the same field, if haply their daughters are permitted to remain on the same plantation
with them, instead of being as they often are, separated from their parents and sold into distant
states, never again to meet on earth. But do the fathers of the South ever sell their daughters?
My heart beats, and my hand trembles, as I write the awful affirmative, Yes! The fathers of
this Christian land often sell their daughters, not as Jewish parents did, to be the wives
and daughters-in-law of the man who buys them, but to be the abject slaves of petty tyrants
and irresponsible masters. Is it not so, my friends? I leave it to your own candor to corroborate
my assertion. Southern slaves then have not become slaves in any of the six different ways
in which Hebrews became servants, and I hesitate not to say that American masters cannot according
to Jewish law substantiate their claim to the men, women, or children they now hold in bondage.

But there was one way in which a Jew might illegally be reduced to servitude; it was this,
he might he stolen and afterwards sold as a slave, as was Joseph. To guard most effectually
against this dreadful crime of manstealing, God enacted this severe law. "He that stealeth
a man and selleth him, or if he be found in his hand, he shall surely be put to death[A]."
As I have tried American Slavery by legal Hebrew servitude, and found, (to your surprise, perhaps,)
that Jewish law cannot justify the slaveholder's claim, let us now try it by illegal Hebrew
bondage. Have the Southern slaves then been stolen? If they did not sell themselves into bondage;
if they were not sold as insolvent debtors or as thieves; if they were not redeemed from a
heathen master to whom they had sold themselves; if they were not born in servitude according
to Hebrew law; and if the females were not sold by their fathers as wives and daughters-in-law
to those who purchased them; then what shall we say of them? what can we say of them? but that
according to Hebrew Law they have been stolen.

[Footnote A: And again, "If a man be found stealing any of his brethren of the children of
Israel, and maketh merchandise of him, or selleth him; then that thief shall die, and thou
shalt put away evil from among you." Deut. xxiv, 7.]

But I shall be told that the Jews had other servants who were absolute slaves. Let us look
a little into this also. They had other servants who were procured in two different ways.

1. Captives taken in war were reduced to bondage instead of being killed; but we are not told
that their children were enslaved. Deut. xx, 14.

2. Bondmen and bondmaids might be bought from the heathen round about them; these were left
by fathers to their children after them, but it does not appear that the children of these
servants ever were reduced to servitude. Lev. xxv, 44.

I will now try the right of the southern planter by the claims of Hebrew masters over their
heathen slaves. Were the southern slaves taken captive in war? No! Were they bought from the
heathen? No! for surely, no one will now vindicate the slave-trade so far as to assert that
slaves were bought from the heathen who were obtained by that system of piracy. The only excuse
for holding southern slaves is that they were born in slavery, but we have seen that they were
not born in servitude as Jewish servants were, and that the children of heathen slaves were
not legally subjected to bondage even under the Mosaic Law. How then have the slaves of the
South been obtained?

I will next proceed to an examination of those laws which were enacted in order to protect
the Hebrew and the Heathen servant; for I wish you to understand that both are protected by
Him, of whom it is said "his mercies are over all his works." I will first speak of those which
secured the rights of Hebrew servants. This code was headed thus:

1. Thou shalt not rule over him with rigor, but shalt fear thy God.

2. If thou buy a Hebrew servant, six years shall he serve, and in the seventh year he shall
go out free for nothing. Ex. xx, 2[A]. Deut. xv, 13, 14.]

3. If he come in by himself, he shall go out by himself; if he were married, then his wife
shall go out with him.

4. Ex. xxi, 3-6.

6. If a man smite the eye of his servant, or the eye of his maid, that it perish, he shall
let him go free for his eye's sake. And if he smite out his man servant's tooth or his maid
servant's tooth, he shall let him go free for his tooth's sake. Ex. xxi, 26, 27.

7. On the Sabbath rest was secured to servants by the fourth commandment. Ex. xx, 10.

8. Servants were permitted to unite with their masters three times in every year in celebrating
the Passover, the feast of Pentecost, and the feast of Tabernacles; every male throughout the
land was to appear before the Lord at Jerusalem with a gift; here the bond and the free stood
on common ground. He was the father-in-law and predecessor of Hauchecorne.

Au Bonheur des Dames.

FINET (DESIREE), daughter of the preceding.

She married Hauchecorne, her father's principal salesman, who carried on the business. Au Bonheur
des Dames.

FINET, a doctor of medicine who resided at Cloyes. He was disgusted by the brutality of his patients,
whom he accused of always sending for him when it was too late. His indifference became such
that he did not make any inquiries about the death of Rose Fouan, whose end was hastened by
her son Buteau, or that of Pere Fouan, who was burned alive. La Terre.

FIRMIN, chief huntsman to Napoleon III at Compiegne. Son Excellence
Eugene Rougon.

FLAMINIO, the Comtesse Balbi's man-servant, "with a face like a brigand's, and a long black beard."
Son Excellence Eugene Rougon.

FLEUR D'EPINE, a celebrated chief of brigands who preceded Beau-Francois.
La Terre.

FLEURANCE, a putter in the Voreux pit who worked along with the Maheus. She was found dead in
her bed, and the vacancy created in the pit was filled by Etienne
Lantier. Germinal.

FLORE, the elder daughter of Madame Misard (Aunt Phasie). After illness rendered her mother unfit
for work, Flore replaced her as gatekeeper at the railway crossing
at Croix-de-Maufras.

She was a tall and strong girl of eighteen, with a magnificent head of fair hair; disdainful
of the male, she had thrashed at least one would-be lover. When she was quite little she had
loved Jacques Lantier, and now it was to him alone she would have given herself. Jacques did not
care for her, however, and she came to know that he had a mistress, Severine Roubaud. Convinced
of her own right to be loved, for she was stronger and handsomer than the other, the girl
was tortured by jealousy; and each Friday, as she saw the express rush past, bearing the two
lovers to Paris, was seized with an imperious desire to end everything, and by causing their
death prevent them from passing any more. She accordingly brought about a terrible railway accident,
in which a large number of persons were killed; but the crime was useless, for Severine and Jacques
escaped with trifling injuries. The thought that Jacques knew her guilt, and must in future
regard her as a monster, rendered life hateful to Flore, and to meet death she set out on a
walk of heroic determination through the tunnel of Malaunay, allowing herself to be cut in pieces
by an express train. La Bete Humaine.

FLORENCE, an actress at the variety theatres.

Marsy offered her a valuable house. Son Excellence Eugene Rougon.

Pauline Letellier met her one day on the boulevards accompanied by
Malignon.

Juliette Deberle, who was a little jealous, assured her that Florence
was at least forty and very plain-looking.

Une Page d'Amour.

FLORENT, elder son of a widow who took as her second husband M. Quenu,
who, however, died three years later, leaving a son.

Florent was a gentle, studious youth, and his mother lavished all her affection on him, dying
in the end from hardships endured in her struggle to keep him at college in Paris. After her death
Florent took young Quenu, his half-brother, to live with him in Paris, giving up all thought of
continuing to attend the Law School, and taking pupils in order to find means of sustenance. Years
of hardship followed, and Florent became imbued with Republican ideas. Two days after the Coup d'Etat
of 1851, while the military were firing on the mob in the Boulevard Montmartre, he was knocked
down and stunned. When he recovered, he found that he was lying beside the body of a young woman,
whose blood had oozed from her wounds on to his hands. He was horrified at the sight, and rushed away
to join a party of men who were throwing up barricades in an adjoining street. Worn out with fatigue,
he fell asleep, and on awakening found himself in the hands of the police. His hands were still stained
with the blood of the young woman, and the authorities assumed that he was a dangerous character.
The semblance of a trial followed; he was condemned and transported to Cayenne. After incredible
hardships and sufferings, he escaped and returned to France. Famished and exhausted, he tramped
towards Paris, and had fallen in a faint on the road when he was overtaken by Madame Francois,
who took him the rest of the journey on her cart. During his long absence his brother Quenu had
at first been taken in by Gradelle, a brother of his mother, to whose business of pork-butcher
he ultimately succeeded.

Florent on his return from exile was warmly received by his brother and Madame Quenu, who told
him that Gradelle, his uncle, had died, leaving a considerable sum, and that as there was no will
he was entitled to a half-share. He refused to accept this, but agreed to live with the Quenus.
This arrangement answered well at first, but Madame Quenu got tired of seeing him always about
the house, and let him see that he must secure employment. After some time he got an appointment
as deputy inspector at the Fish Market. He was introduced by Gavard to a small revolutionary
circle which met nightly in a cafe kept by M. Lebigre, and of which he soon became the leader. Meantime,
Mlle. Saget, who from a chance word of Pauline, the little daughter of Quenu, had learned Florent's
past history, spread the story in the markets, and a strong feeling was awakened against him. His
sister-in-law, Lisa, alarmed lest her husband should be compromised
by the revolutionary conspiracy, thought it her duty to inform the
police.

She learned, however, that Florent's history had all along been known, Lebigre being a police
spy, and that only a favourable opportunity was being awaited to arrest the whole gang of
conspirators. The blow fell soon afterwards, and Florent was again
sentenced to transportation to Cayenne.

Le Ventre de Paris.

FLORY was born at Saintes, his father being employed in the local
registry office.

He came to Paris and entered the office of Mazaud, the stockbroker. At first he did his duties
well, but was soon led astray and got into debt.

Having started speculation on his own account, he became deeply involved in the Universal bank,
and on the failure of that concern was left with a liability of a hundred thousand francs,
to meet which he had not a single sou. Subsequently he was arrested and imprisoned for embezzling
a large sum from Mazaud, his employer. L'Argent.

FONTAN (ACHILLE), an actor at the Theatre des Varietes who played parts in La Blonde Venus and
La Petite Duchesse. He became for a time the lover of Nana, but treated her so abominably that
she left him. Nana.

FONTENAILLES (MLLE. DE), was descended from an aristocratic family, but was in great poverty when
a situation was found for her in "The Ladies'Paradise" through the influence of Madame Desforges.
She proved incapable of anything but the most menial work, and ultimately married Joseph, one
of the porters in the establishment. Au Bonheur des Dames.

FOUAN, alias BUTEAU. See Buteau.

FOUAN (FANNY). See Madame Delhomme.

FOUAN (HYACINTHE), the elder son of Pere Fouan and Rose Maliverne, his wife. He was an idler
and drunkard, who, when he had left the army, after having seen service in Africa, had taken to tramp
the fields, refusing to do any regular work, but living by theft and poaching, as though he
were still looting a trembling nation of Bedouins. Withal there looked out of his fine, sunken
eyes a merriment that was not altogether evil, the open heart of good-humoured drunkenness. He
lived with his daughter in a ruined hut amongst some rocks near Rognes. After the division
of land by his father, Hyacinthe soon mortgaged his share and drank the proceeds, never paying
to his parents any part of the rent which had been agreed upon. For a time he sheltered his father,
but frightened the old man by searching for some bonds which he had concealed. He had, however,
neither the cold rapacity of his sister Fanny nor the murderous instincts
of his brother Buteau.

La Terre.

FOUAN (JOSEPH CASIMIR), the father of Marianne, Louis, Michel, and Laure. Born in 1766, he belonged
to a family of peasant proprietors which for centuries had owned land, in varying quantities,
in the neighbourhood of Rognes. They were originally serfs of the Roques-Bouqueval family.
Bit by bit they acquired their land, until, when the Revolution of 1789 arrived, the Fouan of that
day, Joseph Casimir, was the owner of twenty-one acres-- the conquest of four centuries from
the seigneurial territory. When, in 1793, the rest of the estate was declared national property
and sold in lots by auction, he was too timid to purchase any, and had the mortification to see
La Borderie sold to Isidore Hourdequin, a citizen of Chateaudun,
for a fifth of its value.

When he became old he divided his twenty-one acres between three of his family, Marianne,
Louis, and Michel, and gave a corresponding sum of money to his younger daughter Laure, who had
been brought up as a sempstress and was in service at Chateaudun.
La Terre.

FOUAN (LAURE), younger daughter of the preceding. See Madame Charles
Badeuil.

FOUAN (LOUIS), known as Pere Fouan. He was the son of Joseph Casimir Fouan, and married Rose Maliverne,
by whom he had three children, Hyacinthe, Buteau, and Fanny. He received seven acres of land from
his father, and his wife brought him twelve acres more. This land he cultivated well, and with
a passion for the soil, as such, which amounted to frenzy. It alone had his love, and his
wife and children trembled before him under a rude despotism. At seventy years of age he was
still healthy, but his limbs were failing, and he reluctantly decided
to divide his land between his children.

He retained his house and garden, which had come to him with his wife, and his family undertook
to pay him a rent for the land handed over to them. Upon this, along with a nest-egg of three
hundred francs per annum, known to no one, the old people would be able to live comfortably. The
division made, the family soon became rapacious; Hyacinthe never paid anything, Buteau only a
part, and Delhomme, Fanny's husband, alone fulfilled his obligation.

Mere Fouan died, and the old man lived alone for a year; after that he went to his daughter
Fanny Delhomme, but her unkindness made his life miserable, and he
accepted in turn the hospitality of his two sons, Buteau and Hyacinthe,
both of whom had come to suspect the existence of his nest-egg and
were anxious to secure it.

In this sordid aim Buteau was eventually successful, and his subsequent treatment of the old man
was even more infamous than it had been before. From this time Pere Fouan lived in isolation;
he spoke to none and looked at none; as far as appearances went, he might have been blind and
dumb. But even worse was to follow.

He had seen the assault on Francoise Mouche which resulted in her death, and to ensure his silence
he was murdered by Buteau and Lise, his son and daughter-in-law, who attempted to suffocate him,
and subsequently burned him alive in his bed. La Terre.

FOUAN (MADAME ROSE), wife of the preceding, nee Maliverne. She worked on the farm like a man,
rising first and going to bed last, her only reward being that she had lived. Stupid, and reduced
by labour to the level of an animal, she had always trembled before the despotic authority
of her husband. She brought up her family without love, and as if she resented their requiring
even the simple necessaries of life.

She did not long survive the division of land by her husband. Her favouritism for Hyacinthe, her
elder son, excited the jealousy of Buteau, who in the course of a quarrel threw her to the ground,
when she received such injuries that she died a few hours afterwards.
La Terre.

FOUAN (MARIANNE). See La Grande.

FOUAN (MICHEL). See Pere Mouche.

FOUAN (OLYMPE), daughter of Hyacinthe. Her mother, who was a tramp, ran off when the child
was three years old, leaving her to grow up as best she could. She was passionately fond of
geese, of which she had a large flock.

When little more than a child, she had as her lovers Delphin Becu
and Nenesse Delhomme. La Terre.

FOUCARMONT,
a naval officer who in ten years saved some money which he proposed to invest in the United States.
He fell into the hands of Nana, however, and was soon completely
ruined.

When she turned him out of doors penniless, she merely advised him to go back to his ship.
He was drowned later in the China seas. Nana.

FOUCART, the owner of a cheap restaurant frequented by Jory, Mahoudeau,
and their band. L'Oeuvre.

FOUCART
(MADAME), the nurse who attended Sidonie Rougon at the birth of Angelique
and left the child at the foundling hospital.

She assisted Sidonie both by taking her into her house and lending
her money, but when Madame Foucart herself fell into difficulties
Sidonie did nothing for her, not even paying back what she owed.

It was from Madame Foucart that Hubert subsequently got information regarding the parentage
of Angelique.

Le Reve.

FOUCHARD, father of Honore Fouchard, and uncle, on the mother's side, of Henriette and Maurice
Levasseur. He was a small farmer at Remilly, who to make money more quickly took up the trade
of butcher also.

Avaricious to the last degree, and with a nature of unpitying hardness,
he opposed the marriage of Honore with his servant Silvine Morange.

At the end of two years of waiting Honore went off, after a terrible
scene with his father, though the old man still kept the girl, with
whom he was well pleased.

When the French troops were marching to Sedan, Fouchard concealed all the animals on his farm,
burying even his supply of bread and wine, in the hope of being able to sell to better advantage
later on. The death of his son, who was killed in the battle, cost him a few tears, but he was quickly
consoled by some good purchases of horses stolen from the battlefield. He took Prosper Sambuc
as farm-worker, because the soldier, being liable to imprisonment by the Prussians, could not
ask him for any wages. He began to do a considerable trade in butcher-meat with the conquering
army, selling them all the diseased animals that he could secure. A suspicion of being concerned
in the death of Goliath Steinberg led to his arrest, but he was released soon afterwards, thanks
to the intervention of Captain von Gartlauben, a friend of the Delaherches.
La Debacle.

FOUCHARD (HONORE), only son of the preceding. At twenty years of age, in 1867, he drew a good
number for the conscription, but on account of the opposition of his father to his marriage with
Silvine Morange, he enlisted, and was sent to Africa, in the artillery. When he heard that Silvine
had become the mistress of Goliath Steinberg he became so ill that he had to remain in hospital
for three months. He afterwards received a letter from Silvine saying that she had never loved any
one but him, and when passing through Remilly on his way to the front,
he saw her and forgave everything.

His battery was among those which on 1st September, 1870, defended the Calvary d'Illy, but was
cut to pieces by the terrible fire of the Prussians. Honore was killed, and fell across his gun,
firmly grasping the letter from Silvine, which in his death-struggle he had drawn from his bosom.
La Debacle.

FOUGERAY (MADEMOISELLE DE), eldest daughter of the Baronne de Fougeray. She entered a convent, because
it was said, a young man with whom she was in love had died. The event created much talk in all
classes of society in Paris. Nana.

FOUQUE (ADELAIDE), generally known as Aunt Dide, the common ancestress of the Rougon-Macquarts,
born at Plassans in 1768, was the last representative of a family who had owned a market-garden
there for several generations. "This girl, whose father died insane, was a long, lank, pale
creature, with a scared look and strange gait." In 1786, six months after the death of her father,
she married one of her own workmen, named Rougon, "a rough-hewn peasant
from the Basses Alpes."

Rougon died fifteen months after his marriage, leaving a son named Pierre. Scarcely a year had
elapsed before the widow took as her lover a man named Macquart, who lived in a hovel adjoining
her own property, and two children were born. The legitimate son, Pierre Rougon, was brought up
along with his half brother and sister, Antoine and Ursule, with whom, however, he was not on
good terms. From her eighteenth year Adelaide was subject to nervous fits, which brought on
convulsions, and though she was not yet insane, these repeated shocks produced cerebral disorders.
"She lived from day to day like a child; like a fawning animal yielding to its instincts." These conditions
continued for about twenty years, till the death of Macquart, and the children grew up as
best they could. By this time Pierre realized the situation, and playing upon his mother's mental
weakness, he brought her completely under his sway. On the death of Macquart, Adelaide went
to live in the hovel bequeathed to her by him, and Pierre sold the family property, appropriating
the price. Living at first entirely alone, her intellect became more and more affected by the
recurring convulsive fits. Subsequently her grandson Silvere Mouret lived with her, but after
his execution, of which she was a witness, she became quite insane.
La Fortune des Rougon.

She
was always under restraint, and remained a living sore to the family. The little property which
belonged to her son Antoine Macquart was close to the asylum where she was confined, and Pierre
Rougon seemed to have placed him there to look after her. Adelaide seldom spoke, and for twelve
years had never moved from her chair. La Conquete de Plassans.

At 104 years old she was still living in the asylum at Les Tulettes. She was little better than
a skeleton, and in her long, thin face it was only in the eyes that there was any sign of life.
Immovable in her chair, she remained from year to year like a spectre, calling up the horrors of
her family history. A sudden accident, the death of little Charles Saccard from nasal hemorrhage,
wakened in her sleeping brain recollections of years before; she saw again the murder of Silvere,
killed by a pistol-shot, and she saw also her lover Macquart, the smuggler, killed like a dog
by the gendarmes. The shock proved too much for her feeble strength, and she died the following
day (in 1873), aged 105 years, three months, and seven days. Le Docteur
Pascal.

FOUSSET (LE PERE), tenant of the farm of Millouard, in the Canton of Orgeres. He was a victim of
the band of brigands commanded by Beau-Francois. La Terre.

FRANCHOMME (LOUIS), a cousin of Francoise Hamelin and her brother, with whom he went to reside
for a time when recovering from a fever. His wife having become fond of Angelique Marie, who lived
at that time with Francoise Hamelin, he obtained permission to take her to Paris, where she could
be taught the trade of making flowers. Unfortunately, however, he died three months later.
Le Reve.

FRANCHOMME (THERESE), wife of the preceding. After the death of her husband, she, being in delicate
health, was obliged to leave the city and go to live with her brother Rabier, a tanner, who was settled
at Beaumont. She died a few months afterwards, leaving to the care of the Rabiers the child Angelique,
whom she had brought with her from Paris. Le Reve.
FRANCIS, the hairdresser of Nana. He was in the habit of lending
money to his customers, and on one occasion he found, with the assistance
of Labordette, a hundred thousand francs for Comte Muffat, who required
the money for Nana. Nana.

FRANCIS, coachman to the Gregoires. He
also did the heavy work of the household. Germinal.

FRANCOIS, a wine-merchant
whose shop was situated at the corner of Rue des Poissonniers and
of Rue de la Goutte d'Or. Coupeau frequently spent whole days there.
L'Assommoir.

FRANCOIS, concierge and footman in Nana's establishment.
He was the husband of Victorine, the cook. He received visitors in
the hall, wearing a gorgeous livery. Nana.

FRANCOIS (MADAME), a market-gardener
of Nanterre. She drove regularly to Paris in the early morning with
her vegetables, and on one occasion found Florent lying on the road
from want and exhaustion. She took him to town in her cart, and subsequently
showed kindness to him and Claude Lantier. Le Ventre de Paris.

FRANCOISE,
housemaid to Madame Theophile Vabre. Pot-Bouille.

FRANCOISE, the
servant of M. and Madame Sandoz in their little house in Rue Nollet.
L'Oeuvre.

FRANGIPANE, a horse which belonged to Baron Verdier and
ran in the Grand Prix de Paris. Nana.

FREDERICK (MADAME), a widow
who held the position of "second hand" in the dress department of
"The Ladies'Paradise." Au Bonheur des Dames.

FIRMAT, an old peasant
of Rognes who was a neighbour of Mouche. He became paralysed. La
Terre.

FIRMAT
(LA), wife of the preceding. She was well known in the village for
her knowledge of animals, and was frequently consulted when it would
otherwise have been necessary to call in a veterinary surgeon. She
worked hard to support her invalid husband, to whom she was devoted,
and wept at the thought that he was soon to die. La Terre.

G GABET (MERE), an old woman who assisted the Huberts with their
washing.

She became
ill, and being in great poverty, was assisted by Angelique, and later
by Felicien. Le Reve. GAGA, an elderly demi-mondaine who had flourished
in the reign of Louis Philippe, and was still notorious in the Second
Empire.

She had a daughter named Lili, who
became the mistress of the Marquis Chouard. Nana. GAGEBOIS, glass-works
at Montsou. The strike of miners led to the fires being extinguished.
Germinal. GAGNIERE, an artist, one of the band of Claude Lantier.

He belonged to Melun, where his well-to-do
parents, who were both dead, had left him two houses; and he had
learned painting, unassisted, in the forest of Fontainebleau.

His landscapes
were conscientious and excellent in intent, but his real passion was
music. Becoming more and more engrossed in this, he took lessons in
playing the piano from a middle-aged lady whom he married soon afterwards.
He established himself at Melun in one of his two houses, going to
Paris two or three times a month to attend a concert, and he continued to
exhibit each year at the Salon one of his little studies of the banks
of the Seine. If thou count me therefore
as a partner, receive him as myself." This then surely cannot be forced into a justification
of the practice of returning runaway slaves back to their masters, to be punished with cruel
beatings and scourgings as they often are. Besides the word [Greek: doulos] here translated
servant, is the same that is made use of in Matt. xviii, 27. Now it appears that this servant
owed his lord ten thousand talents; he possessed property to a vast amount. Onesimus could
not then have been a slave, for slaves do not own their wives, or children; no, not even their
own bodies, much less property. But again, the servitude which the apostle was accustomed to,
must have been very different from American slavery, for he says, "the heir (or son), as long
as he is a child, differeth nothing from a servant, though he be lord of all. But is under
tutors and governors until the time appointed of the father." From this it appears, that the
means of instruction were provided for servants as well as children; and indeed we know it
must have been so among the Jews, because their servants were not permitted to remain in perpetual
bondage, and therefore it was absolutely necessary they should be prepared to occupy higher
stations in society than those of servants. Is it so at the South, my friends? Is the daily
bread of instruction provided for your slaves? are their minds enlightened, and they gradually
prepared to rise from the grade of menials into that of free, independent members of the state?
Let your own statute book, and your own daily experience, answer these questions.

If this apostle sanctioned slavery, why did he exhort masters thus in his epistle to the Ephesians,
"and ye, masters, do the same things unto them (i.e. perform your duties to your servants as
unto Christ, not unto me) forbearing threatening; knowing that your master also is in heaven,
neither is there respect of persons with him." Let slaveholders only obey these injunctions
of Paul, and I am satisfied slavery would soon be abolished. If he thought it sinful even to
threaten servants, surely he must have thought it sinful to flog and to beat them with sticks
and paddles; indeed, when delineating the character of a bishop, he expressly names this as
one feature of it, "no striker." Let masters give unto their servants that which is just and
equal, and all that vast system of unrequited labor would crumble into ruin. Yes, and if they
once felt they had no right to the labor of their servants without pay, surely they could not
think they had a right to their wives, their children, and their own bodies. Again, how can
it be said Paul sanctioned slavery, when, as though to put this matter beyond all doubt, in
that black catalogue of sins enumerated in his first epistle to Timothy, he mentions "menstealers,"
which word may be translated "slavedealers." But you may say, we all despise slavedealers as
much as any one can; they are never admitted into genteel or respectable society. And why not?
Is it not because even you shrink back from the idea of associating with those who make their
fortunes by trading in the bodies and souls of men, women, and children? whose daily work it
is to break human hearts, by tearing wives from their husbands, and children from their parents?
But why hold slavedealers as despicable, if their trade is lawful and virtuous? and why despise
them more than the gentlemen of fortune and standing who employ them as their agents? Its plot was
complicated without being confused. It contained many striking situations; the dialogue was lively,
but there was more humor in the surprises and discoveries than verbal wit in the repartees.
Some strokes of satire were leveled at the grasping disposition of the existing race of courtiers,
whose whole trade was represented as consisting of getting all they could, and asking for more;
and others at the tricks of modern politicians, feigning to be ignorant of what they knew;
to know what they were ignorant of; to keep secrets which had no existence; to lock the door
to mend a pen; to appear deep when they were shallow; to set spies in motion, and to intercept
letters; to try to ennoble the poverty of their means by the grandeur of their objects. The censorship,
of course, did not escape. The scene being laid in Spain, Figaro affirmed that at Madrid the
liberty of the press meant that, so long as an author spoke neither of authority, nor of public
worship, nor of politics, nor of morality, nor of men in power, nor of the opera, nor of any other
exhibition, nor of any one who was concerned in any thing, he might print what be pleased. The
lawyers were reproached with a scrupulous adherence to forms, and a connivance at needless
delays, which put money into their pockets; and the nobles, with
thinking that, as long as they gave themselves the trouble to be born,
society had no right to expect from them any further useful action.

But such satire was too general, it might have been thought, to cause uneasiness, much more
to do specific injury to any particular individual, or to any company or profession. Figaro
himself is represented as saying that none but little men feared little writings. [3] And one
of the advisers whom King Louis consulted as to the possibility of any mischief arising from
the performance of the play, is said to have expressed his opinion in the form of an apothegm,
that "none but dead men were killed by jests." The author might even have argued that his keenest
satire had been poured upon those national enemies, the English, when he declared what has been
sometimes regarded as the national oath to be the pith and marrow of the English language,
the open sesame to English society, the key to unlock the English
heart, and to obtain the judicious swearer all that he could desire.

[4]
And an English writer, with English notions of the liberty of the press,
would hardly have thought it worth while to notice such an affair
at all, did he not feel bound to submit his judgment to that of the
French themselves.

And if their view be correct, almost every institution in France must have been a dead man past
all hopes of recovery, since the French historical writers, to whatever party they belong, are unanimous
in declaring that it was from this play that many of the oldest institutions in the country
received their death-blow, and that Beaumarchais was at once the herald and the pioneer of
the approaching Revolution.

Paris had scarcely cooled down after this excitement, when its attention was more agreeably attracted
by the arrival of a king, Gustavus III. of Sweden. He had paid a visit to France in 1771, which
had been cut short by the sudden death of his father, necessitating his immediate return to his
own country to take possession of his throne; but the brief acquaintance which Marie Antoinette
had then made with him had inspired her with a great admiration of his chivalrous character;
and in the preceding year, hearing that he was contemplating a tour
in Southern Europe, she had written to him to express a hope that
he would repeat his visit to Versailles, promising him "such a reception
as was due to an ancient ally of France; [5]" and adding that "she
should personally have great pleasure in testifying to him how greatly
she valued his friendship." You can read on this
subject. 2d. You can pray over this subject. 3d. You can speak on this subject. 4th. You can
act on this subject. I have not placed reading before praying because I regard it more important,
but because, in order to pray aright, we must understand what we are praying for; it is only
then we can "pray with the understanding and the spirit also."

1. Read then on the subject of slavery. Search the Scriptures daily, whether the things I have
told you are true. Other books and papers might be a great help to you to this investigation,
but they are not necessary, and it is hardly probable that your Committees of Vigilance will
allow you to have any other. The Bible then is the book I want you to read in the spirit of
inquiry, and the spirit of prayer. Even the enemies of Abolitionists, acknowledge that their
doctrines are drawn from it. In the great mob in Boston, last autumn, when the books and papers
of the Anti-Slavery Society, were thrown out of the windows of their office, one individual
laid hold of the Bible and was about tossing it out to the ground, when another reminded him
that it was the Bible he had in his hand. "O! 'tis all one," he replied, and out went the sacred
volume, along with the rest. We thank him for the acknowledgment. Yes, "it is all one," for
our books and papers are mostly commentaries on the Bible, and the Declaration. Read the Bible
then, it contains the words of Jesus, and they are spirit and life. Judge for yourselves whether
he sanctioned such a system of oppression and crime.

2. Pray over this subject. When you have entered into your closets, and shut to the doors,
then pray to your father, who seeth in secret, that he would open your eyes to see whether
slavery is sinful, and if it is, that he would enable you to bear a faithful, open and un-shrinking
testimony against it, and to do whatsoever your hands find to do, leaving the consequences
entirely to him, who still says to us whenever we try to reason away duty from the fear of
consequences, "What is that to thee, follow thou me." Pray also for that poor slave, that he
may be kept patient and submissive under his hard lot, until God is pleased to open the door
of freedom to him without violence or bloodshed. Pray too for the master that his heart may
be softened, and he made willing to acknowledge, as Joseph's brethren did, "Verily we are guilty
concerning our brother," before he will be compelled to add in consequence of Divine judgment,
"therefore is all this evil come upon us." Pray also for all your brethren and sisters who
are laboring in the righteous cause of Emancipation in the Northern States, England and the
world. There is great encouragement for prayer in these words of our Lord. "Whatsoever ye shall
ask the Father in my name, he will give it to you"--Pray then without ceasing, in the closet
and the social circle.

3. Speak on this subject. It is through the tongue, the pen, and the press, that truth is principally
propagated. Speak then to your relatives, your friends, your acquaintances on the subject of
slavery; be not afraid if you are conscientiously convinced it is sinful, to say so openly,
but calmly, and to let your sentiments be known. If you are served by the slaves of others,
try to ameliorate their condition as much as possible; never aggravate their faults, and thus
add fuel to the fire of anger already kindled, in a master and mistress's bosom; remember their
extreme ignorance, and consider them as your Heavenly Father does the less culpable on this
account, even when they do wrong things. Discountenance all cruelty to them, all starvation,
all corporal chastisement; these may brutalize and  break their spirits, but will never bend
them to willing, cheerful obedience. If possible, see that they are comfortably and seasonably
fed, whether in the house or the field; it is unreasonable and cruel to expect slaves to wait
for their breakfast until eleven o'clock, when they rise at five or six. Do all you can, to
induce their owners to clothe them well, and to allow them many little indulgences which would
contribute to their comfort. The latter method is, of course, not practicable for brown gravies.

The
good flavor of browned flour is often overlooked. If flour is cooked in fat until it is a dark
brown color a distinctive and very agreeable flavor is obtained. This flavor combines very
well with that of currant jelly, and a little jelly added to a brown gravy is a great improvement. The
flavor of this should not be combined with that of onions or other highly flavored vegetables.
A recipe for a dish which is made with brown sauce follows: MOCK
VENISON Cut cold mutton into thin slices and heat in a brown sauce,
made according to the following proportions: 2 tablespoonfuls butter.

2 tablespoonfuls flour.

  
  1 tablespoonful of bottled meat
  sauce (whichever is preferred).
  1 tablespoonful red-currant jelly.

1 cupful water or stock.

Brown the flour in the butter, add the water or stock slowly, and keep stirring. Then add the jelly and
meat sauce and let the mixture boil up well.

CHAPTER XV HOUSEHOLD RECIPES. (Arranged Alphabetically) "The woman's work for her own home is
to secure its order, comfort, and loveliness."-- JOHN RUSKIN-- Sesame
and Lilies.

The following recipes are tried and approved ones, useful for housecleaning,
laundry work, etc. In a number of instances they give instruction
in the making of commodities, such as soap, which are usually purchased
in the stores, but which, if made at home will cost less money, and
be of better quality.

They are arranged alphabetically for ease of reference: ANTS-- TO
GET RID OF Wash the shelves with salt and water; sprinkle salt in
their paths.

To keep them out of safes, set the legs of the safe on tin cups;
keep the cups filled with water.

BARRELS-- TO CLEAN The ordinary way of washing a barrel is with boiling water, and when cool examining it
with a light inside.

If there be any sour or musty smell, however, lime must be used to remove it. Break the lime
into lumps, and put it in the cask dry (it will take from 3 to 4 lbs. for each cask), then
pour in as many gallons of boiling water as there are pounds of lime, and bung. Roll the cask about
now and then, and after a few hours wash it out, steam it, and let
it cool.

BED-BUGS-- TO KILL For bed-bugs nothing is so good as the white of
eggs and quicksilver.

A thimbleful of quicksilver to the white of each egg; heat until well mixed; apply with a feather.
FEATHER-BEDS-- TO CLEANSE WITHOUT EMPTYING On a hot, clear summer
day, lay the bed upon a scaffold; wash it well with soap-suds upon
both sides, rubbing it hard with a stiff brush; pour several gallons
of hot water upon the bed slowly, and let it drip through.

Rinse with clear water; remove it to a dry part of the scaffold to
dry; beat, and turn it two or three times during the day.

Sun until perfectly dry. The feathers may be emptied in barrels, washed in soap-suds, and rinsed; then
spread in an unoccupied room and dried, or put in bags made of thin sleazy cloth, and kept
in the sun until dry. The quality of feathers can be much improved by attention of this kind.
CLOTHES-- TO BLEACH Dissolve a handful of refined borax in ten gallons of water; boil the clothes
in it. To whiten brown cloth, boil in weak lye, and expose day and
night to the sun and night air; keep the clothes well sprinkled.

BOOKS-- TO KEEP MICE FROM Sprinkle a little Cayenne pepper in the
cracks at the back of the shelves of the bookcase.

BOARDS-- TO SCOUR Mix in a saucer three parts of fine sand and one part of lime; dip the scrubbing-brush
into this and use it instead of soap.

This will remove grease and whiten the boards, while at the same
time it will destroy all insects.

The boards should be well rinsed with clean water. If they are very greasy, they should be well
covered over in places with a coating of fuller's earth moistened with boiling water, which should
be left on 24 hours before they are scoured as above directed. In washing boards never rub crosswise,
but always with the grain. BOOKS-- TO PRESERVE FROM DAMP A few drops of strong perfumed oil, sprinkled
in the bookcase will preserve books from damp and mildew. BOOKS-- TO CLEAN Books may be cleaned
with a little dry bread crumbled up and rubbed gently, but firmly, over with the open hand.
Cloth covers may be washed with a sponge dipped in a mixture made
from the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth and afterwards allowed
to settle.

To clean grease marks from books, dampen the marks with a little
benzine, place a piece of blotting-paper on each side of the page,
and pass a hot iron over the top.

BRASS-- TO CLEAN Dissolve 1 oz. of oxalic acid in one pint of soft water. Rub it on the brass
with a piece of flannel, and polish with another dry piece. This solution should be kept in a bottle
labelled "poison," and the bottle well shaken before it is used,
which should be only occasionally, for in a general way the Brass
should be cleaned with pulverized rottenstone, mixed into a liquid
state with oil of turpentine.

Rub this on with a piece of soft leather, leave for a few minutes;
then wipe it off with a soft cloth.

Brass treated generally with the latter, and occasionally with the
former mode of cleaning will look most beautiful.

A very good general polish for brass may be made of 1/ 2 a lb. of
rottenstone and 1 oz. of oxalic acid, with as much water as will make
it into a stiff paste.

Set this paste on a plate in a cool oven to dry, pound it very fine, and apply a little of
the powder, moistened with sweet oil, to the brass with a piece of leather, polishing with another
leather or an old silk handkerchief. This powder should also be labelled "poison." BRITANNIA
METAL-- TO CLEAN Articles made of what is usually called Britannia metal may be kept in order by
the frequent use of the following composition: 1/ 2 a lb. of finely-powdered whiting, a wineglass
of sweet oil, a tablespoonful of soft soap, and 1/ 2 an oz. of yellow
soap melted in water.

Add to these in mixing sufficient spirits-- gin or spirits of wine--
to make the compound the consistency of cream.

This cream should be applied with a sponge or soft flannel, wiped off with soft linen rags,
and the article well polished with a leather; or they may be cleaned
with only oil and soap in the following manner: Rub the articles with
sweet oil on a piece of woolen cloth; then wash well with strong soap-and-water;
rub them dry, and polish with a soft leather and whiting.

The polish thus given will last for a long time.

CARPETS-- TO CLEAN Shake the carpet well; tack it down, and wash it upon the floor; the floor
should be very clean; use cold soap suds; to three gallons add half a tumbler of beef-gall; this will
prevent the colors from fading. Should there be grease spots, apply a mixture of beef-gall, fuller's-earth,
and water enough to form a paste; put this on before tacking the carpet down. Use tacks inserted
in small leather caps.

Carpets in bedrooms and stair-carpets may be kept clean by being
brushed with a soft hairbrush frequently, and, as occasion requires,
being taken up and shaken.

Larger carpets should be swept carefully with a whisk-brush or hand-brush of hair, which is far better,
especially in the case of fine-piled carpets. Thick carpets, as Axminster and Turkey, should always
be brushed one way. CARPETS-- TO LAY This can hardly be well done without the aid of a proper carpet-fork
or stretcher. Work the carpet the length way of the material, which ought to be made up the length way of
the room. Nail sides as you go along, until you are quite sure that the carpet is fully stretched,
and that there is no fold anywhere in the length of it. STAIR-CARPET-- TO CLEAN Make stair-carpet
longer than necessary, and change it so that it will not cover the steps in the same way each
time of putting down. Moved about in this way, the carpet will last
much longer. Clean the rods with oxalic acid.

They should be kept bright. CHIMNEY ON FIRE Close all doors and windows tightly, and hold
a wet blanket in front of the fire to prevent any draught going up the chimney. CHINA OR GLASS-- TO
WASH Wash in plenty of hot soap suds; have two vessels, and in one
rinse in hot water.

Turn upon waiters, and let the articles drip before being wiped.

Use linen towels for wiping. CLOTHES-- TO REMOVE SPOTS AND STAINS FROM To remove grease-spots from
cotton or woolen materials, absorbent pastes, and even common soap, are used, applied to the
spot when dry. When the colors are not fast, place a layer of fuller's-earth or pulverized potter's
clay over the spot, and press with a very hot iron. Eau-de-Cologne will also remove grease from
cloth and silk. Fresh ink-spots are removed by a few drops of hot water being poured on immediately
after applying the chloride of soda. CUPBOARDS, DAMP-- TO DRY Leave a quantity of quicklime in
the cupboard for a few days, and the moisture will be entirely absorbed. EGGS-- TO PACK Put
into a butter firkin a thick layer of coarse dry salt, then a layer of eggs, with the small end
down, another layer of salt, then eggs, and so on until the firkin
is full.

Cover and keep in a dry place.

These eggs will keep put up in this way almost any length of time. FEATHERS-- TO CLEAN Cover the
feathers with a paste made of pipe-clay, and water, rubbing them one way only. When quite dry,
shake off all the powder and curl with a knife. FLANNEL-- TO WASH Never rub soap upon it; make
suds by dissolving the soap in warm water; rinse in warm water. Very cold or hot water will shrink
flannel. Shake them out several minutes before hanging to dry. Blankets are washed in the same
way. FLEAS-- TO DRIVE AWAY Use pennyroyal or walnut leaves. Scatter them profusely in all infested
places. FLIES-- TO DESTROY A mixture of cream, sugar, and ground black pepper, in equal quantities,
placed in saucers in a room infested with flies will destroy them. If a small quantity, say the equivalent
of a teaspoonful of carbolic acid be poured on a hot shovel, it will
drive the flies from the room.

But screens should be used to prevent their entrance.

STEEL-FORKS-- TO CLEAN Have a small box filled with clean sand; mix with it a third the quantity
of soft soap; clean the forks by sticking in the sand and withdrawing them rapidly, repeating
the process until they are bright. FRUIT STAINS-- TO REMOVE Pour hot water on the spots; wet with
ammonia or oxalic acid-- a teaspoonful to a teacup of water.

FRUIT-TREES-- TO PREVENT DEPREDATIONS OF To preserve apple and other
fruit trees from the depredations of rabbits, etc., and the ravages
of insects, apply soft soap to the trunk and branches in March and
September.

FURNITURE GLOSS-- GERMAN Cut 1/ 4 of a lb. of yellow wax into small pieces and melt it in an
earthen vessel, with 1 oz. of black rosin, pounded very fine. FURNITURE POLISH One pint of linseed
oil, one wineglass of alcohol. Mix well together.

Apply to the furniture with a fine rag.

Rub dry with a soft cotton cloth, and polish with a silk cloth. Furniture is improved by washing
it occasionally with soap-suds.

Wipe dry, and rub over with very little linseed oil upon a clean
sponge or flannel.

Wipe polished furniture with silk. Separate dusting-cloths and brushes should be kept for highly
polished furniture.

When sweeping carpets and dusting walls always cover the furniture
until the particles of dust floating in the air settle, then remove
the covers, and wipe with a silk or soft cotton cloth, FURNITURE STAINS--
TO REMOVE Rub stains on furniture with cold-drawn linseed oil; then
rub with alcohol.

Remove ink stains with oxalic acid and water; wash off with milk.
A hot iron held over stains upon furniture will sometimes remove
them.

FURS-- TO CLEAN Moisten some bran with hot water; rub the fur with it, and dry with a flannel.
Then rub with a piece of muslin and some dry bran. GAS-- TO DETECT A LEAK Never take a light
into the room or look for the leak with a light. Soap and water mixed, and applied with a brush to
the pipe will commence to bubble if there is a leak.

Send for the plumber at once.

GLASS-- TO WASH Great care is required in washing glasses. Decanters and water-jugs require very
tender treatment in cleaning.

Fine shot or pieces of charcoal placed in a decanter with warm water
and shaken for some time, will also remove stains.

When this is not effective, fill the bottle with finely chopped potato skins. Cork tight, and let
the bottle stand for three days. Empty and rinse thoroughly. GLASS STOPPER-- TO REMOVE Wrap a hot
cloth around the neck of the bottle, thus expanding it, or, if this
is not effective, pour a little salad oil round the stopper, and place
the bottle near the fire, then tap the stopper with a wooden instrument.

The heat will cause the oil to work round the stopper, and it should
be easily removed.

GREASE-- TO REMOVE FROM A STONE HEARTH Lay plenty of hot ashes; wash off (after the grease is
out) with strong soap suds.

HARNESS BLACKING-- FOR PRESERVING THE LEATHER Melt four ounces of
mutton suet with twelve ounces of beeswax; add twelve ounces of sugar-candy,
four ounces of soft soap dissolved in water, and two ounces of indigo,
finely powdered.

When melted and well mixed, add one-half pint of turpentine. Lay the blacking on the harness
with a sponge, and polish off with a brush. FELT-HATS-- TO RENOVATE Mix equal quantities of benzine
and water, and after well brushing the hat, apply the mixture with
a sponge.

HERBS-- TO DRY The right way in drying herbs for your kitchen and
possible medicinal use is to gather them as soon as they begin to
open their flowers, and to lay them on some netting in a dry shed
or room where the air will get at them on all sides.

Be sure they are dry and not moist when you cut
or pick them, and free them from dirt and decayed leaves.

After they are entirely dried out, put them in paper bags upon which
you have written the name of the herb and the date of tying it up.

Hang them where
the air is dry and there is no chance of their moulding. SAVORY HERBS--
TO POWDER Strip the leaves from the stalks, pound, sift out the coarse
pieces, put the powder in bottles, and cork tight. Label with exactness
every bottle. If, for the convenience of instant use in gravies, soups,
etc., you wish different herbs mixed, pound the leaves together when
you make them into powders.

Celery seed, dried
lemon-peel, and other spicy things can thus be combined and ready
for the moment's call.

ICE VAULT-- TO MAKE Dig a pit eight or ten feet square, and
as deep in the cellar. Lay a double wall with brick; fill between
with pulverized charcoal; cover the bottom also double with the same
or tan-bark.

If the pit is filled with ice, or nearly so, cover six inches with
tan-bark; but if only a small quantity is in it, wrap well in a blanket,
and over the opening in the pit lay a double bag of charcoal.

INK-- TO REMOVE FROM LINEN Scald
in hot tallow. Let it cool; then wash in warm suds.

Sometimes these
stains can be removed by wetting the place in very sour buttermilk
or lemon juice; rub salt over, and bleach in the sun.

INSECTS-- TO KEEP AWAY The common elder is a
great safeguard against the devastations of insects. Scatter it around
cucumber and squash-vines.

Place it
on the branches of plum and other fruit-trees subject to the ravages
of insects.

IRONS-- TO REMOVE RUST FROM Scour with dry salt and
beeswax. JAPANNED WARE-- TO CLEAN Japanned tea-trays should not be washed
in hot water if greasy, a little flour rubbed on with a bit of soft
linen will give them a new look; if there are scratches, rub over
a little olive oil.

Gold or silver ornaments, and in general all articles of jewelry,
may be dressed by dipping them in spirits of wine warmed in a shallow
kettle, placed over a slow fire or hot plate.

Silver ornaments should be kept in fine arrowroot,
and completely covered with it. KNIVES-- TO CLEAN Cover a small heavy
table on block by tacking over it very tight soft leather or buckskin; pour
over half the leather melted suet. Spread over this very fine pulverized
bath brick; rub the knives (making rapid strokes) over this. Polish on
the other side. Keep steel wrapped in buckskin. Knives should be cleaned
every day they are used, and kept sharp. The handles of knives should
never be immersed in water, as, after a time, if treated in this way,
the blades will loosen and the handles discolor. The blades should
be put in a jug or vessel kept for the purpose, filled with hot soda
water.

This should be done as soon after the knives are used as possible,
as stain and rust quickly sink into steel. Read it, in the present
state of her West India Colonies. Read it, in the impulse which has been given to the cause
of freedom, in the United States of America. Have English women then done so much for the negro,
and shall American women do nothing? Oh no! Already are there sixty female Anti-Slavery Societies
in operation. These are doing just what the English women did, telling the story of the colored
man's wrongs, praying for his deliverance, and presenting his kneeling image constantly before
the public eye on bags and needle-books, card-racks, pen-wipers, pin-cushions, &c. Even the
children of the north are inscribing on their handy work, "May the points of our needles prick
the slaveholder's conscience." Some of the reports of these Societies exhibit not only considerable
talent, but a deep sense of religious duty, and a determination to persevere through evil as
well as good report, until every scourge, and every shackle, is buried under the feet of the
manumitted slave.

The Ladies' Anti-Slavery Society of Boston was called last fall, to a severe trial of their
faith and constancy. They were mobbed by "the gentlemen of property and standing," in that
city at their anniversary meeting, and their lives were jeoparded by an infuriated crowd; but
their conduct on that occasion did credit to our sex, and affords a full assurance that they
will never abandon the cause of the slave. The pamphlet, Right and Wrong in Boston, issued
by them in which a particular account is given of that "mob of broad cloth in broad day," does
equal credit to the head and the heart of her who wrote it. I wish my Southern sisters could
read it; they would then understand that the women of the North have engaged in this work from
a sense of religious duty, and that nothing will ever induce them to take their hands from
it until it is fully accomplished. They feel no hostility to you, no bitterness or wrath; they
rather sympathize in your trials and difficulties; but they well know that the first thing
to be done to help you, is to pour in the light of truth on your minds, to urge you to reflect
on, and pray over the subject. This is all they can do for you, you must work out your own
deliverance with fear and trembling, and with the direction and blessing of God, you can do
it. Northern women may labor to produce a correct public opinion at the North, but if Southern
women sit down in listless indifference and criminal idleness, public opinion cannot be rectified
and purified at the South. It is manifest to every reflecting mind, that slavery must be abolished;
the era in which we live, and the light which is overspreading the whole world on this subject,
clearly show that the time cannot be distant when it will be done. Now there are only two ways
in which it can be effected, by moral power or physical force, and it is for you to choose
which of these you prefer. Slavery always has, and always will produce insurrections wherever
it exists, because it is a violation of the natural order of things, and no human power can
much longer perpetuate it. The opposers of abolitionists fully believe this; one of them remarked
to me not long since, there is no doubt there will be a most terrible overturning at the South
in a few years, such cruelty and wrong, must be visited with Divine vengeance soon. Abolitionists
believe, too, that this must inevitably be the case, if you do not repent, and they are not
willing to leave you to perish without entreating you, to save yourselves from destruction;
well may they say with the apostle, "am I then your enemy because I tell you the truth," and
warn you to flee from impending judgments.

But why, my dear friends, have I thus been endeavoring to lead you through the history of more
than three thousand years, and to point you to that great cloud of witnesses who have gone
before, "from works to rewards?" Have I been seeking to magnify the sufferings, and exalt the
character of woman, that she "might have praise of men?" No! no! my object has been to arouse
you, as the wives and mothers, the daughters and sisters, of the South, to a sense of your
duty as women, and as Christian women, on that great subject, which has already shaken our
country, from the St. Lawrence and the lakes, to the Gulf of Mexico, and from the Mississippi
to the shores of the Atlantic; and will continue mightily to shake it, until the polluted temple
of slavery fall and crumble into ruin. I would say unto each one of you, "what meanest thou,
O sleeper! arise and call upon thy God, if so be that God will think upon us that we perish
not." Perceive you not that dark cloud of vengeance which hangs over our boasting Republic?
Saw you not the lightnings of Heaven's wrath, in the flame which leaped from the Indian's torch
to the roof of yonder dwelling, and lighted with its horrid glare the darkness of midnight?
Heard you not the thunders of Divine anger, as the distant roar of the cannon came rolling
onward, from the Texian country, where Protestant American Rebels are fighting with Mexican
Republicans--for what? For the re-establishment of slavery; yes! of American slavery in the
bosom of a Catholic Republic, where that system of robbery, violence, and wrong, had been legally
abolished for twelve years. Yes! citizens of the United States, after plundering Mexico of
her land, are now engaged in deadly conflict, for the privilege of fastening chains, and collars,
and manacles--upon whom? upon the subjects of some foreign prince? No! upon native born American
Republican citizens, although the fathers of these very men declared to the whole world, while
struggling to free themselves from the three penny taxes of an English king, that they believed
it to be a self-evident truth that all men were created equal, and had an unalienable right
to liberty.

Well may the poet exclaim in bitter sarcasm,

  "The fustian flag that proudly waves
  In solemn mockery o'er a land of slaves."

Can you not, my friends, understand the signs of the times; do you not see the sword of retributive
justice hanging over the South, or are you still slumbering at your posts?--Are there no Shiphrahs,
no Puahs among you, who will dare in Christian firmness and Christian meekness, to refuse to
obey the wicked laws which require woman to enslave, to degrade and to brutalize woman? Are
there no Miriams, who would rejoice to lead out the captive daughters of the Southern States
to liberty and light? Are there no Huldahs there who will dare to speak the truth concerning
the sins of the people and those judgments, which it requires no prophet's eye to see, must
follow if repentance is not speedily sought? Is there no Esther among you who will plead for
the poor devoted slave? Read the history of this Persian queen, it is full of instruction;
she at first refused to plead for the Jews; but, hear the words of Mordecai, "Think not within
thyself, that thou shalt escape in the king's house more than all the Jews, for if thou altogether
holdest thy peace at this time, then shall there enlargement and deliverance arise to the Jews
from another place: but thou and thy father's house shall be destroyed." Listen, too, to her
magnanimous reply to this powerful appeal; "I will go in unto the king, which is not according
to law, and if I perish. I perish." Yes! if there were but one Esther at the South, she might
save her country from ruin; but let the Christian women there arise, as the Christian women
of Great Britain did, in the majesty of moral power, and that salvation is certain. The housekeeper's
work is greatly dependent upon the kind of water supply available for the house. In cities and towns
the kind of supply is fixed for her, but in the country she is afforded her freedom of choice.
She has a choice of water from wells or springs, which is more or less "hard," that is, impregnated
with lime, and water collected from rain or melting snow. For household purposes rainwater is
the more desirable, and, when properly filtered and kept in clean cisterns protected from
the larvae of mosquitoes and other disease-bearing insects, it is also the best for drinking purposes.
To one accustomed to drinking hard water from a well or spring, rain water is a little unpalatable,
but after he is accustomed to its use he will prefer it.

It is always wise to secure an analysis of the drinking water of the house, since water reputed pure
because of its clearness and coldness is as apt as any other to be contaminated. Where soft
water is not available for household use, hard water may be softened by the addition to it
of pearline or soda, or by boiling, in the latter case the lime in it being precipitated to
the bottom of the kettle or boiler.

When well water is used for drinking some knowledge of the geology of the home grounds is essential.
Thus, because the top of a well is on higher ground than the cess-pool is no reason for assuming
that the contents of the latter may not seep into the water, for the inclination of the strata
of the rocks may be in a contrary direction to that of the surface
of the ground.

When filters and strainers are used they should be carefully cleaned at regular intervals, since if
they are permitted to accumulate impurities they become a source of contamination instead of
its remedy. Every once in a while the housekeeper should take off the strainers from the faucets
and boil them.

There are many excellent systems for obtaining water power for the house in the country, each of
which has its special advantages. The pumping of water to a tank at the top of the house by
a windmill is that most commonly used. This is the cheapest method, but the most unsightly.
Small kerosene or hot-air engines may be employed for the power at very slight cost, and will
prove useful for other purposes, such as sawing wood or even operating the sewing-machines. Owing
to the many inventions for isolated lighting plants by acetylene and other kinds of gas, dwellers
in the country have virtually as free a choice of illumination as
the people in towns and cities.

Great
caution is necessary in the use of any form of illuminating gas, since all produce asphyxiation.
Accordingly, all gas fixtures of the house should be regularly inspected to see that there
is no escape of the subtile, destructive fluid. The odor of escaping gas which is so unpleasant
is really a blessing, in that it informs the householder of his danger. A cock that turns completely
around and, after extinguishing the light, permits the escape of the gas, is more dangerous
than a poisonous serpent. Yet there may be nothing radically wrong with this fixture, and the use
of the screwdriver may make it as good as new. Gas should never be turned low when there is a draught
in the room, nor allowed to burn near hanging draperies. Care should always be taken in turning
out a gas-stove or a drop-light to do so at the fixture and not at the burner. This is not alone safer,
but it keeps the rubber tube from acquiring a disagreeable odor from the gas that has been left
in it.

Great economy in the consumption of gas may be secured by the use of Welsbach and other incandescent
burners. Where these are not employed, care should be taken to select the most economical kind
of gas tips, and to see that when these become impaired by use they
are replaced.

In the large cities there is constant complaint of defective gas-meters, so much so that inspectors
have been appointed to correct this abuse. It has been found, however, that many complaints have
been unfounded because the housewives were not able properly to read the meter. Directions how
to do this will therefore be found useful. A gas-meter has three dials marking tip to 100,000 feet,
10,000 feet, and 1,000 feet respectively. The figures on the second dial are arranged in opposite
order from those on the first and third dials, and this often leads to an error in reckoning. However,
there should be no trouble in setting down the figures indicated by the pointer on each dial.
We first set down the figure indicated upon the first dial in the
units place of a period of three places, then that indicated upon
the second dial in the tens place, and then that indicated upon the
third dial in the hundreds place.

To these we add two ciphers, to obtain the number of feet of gas that has been burned since
the meter was set at zero on the three dials. From this number we subtract the total of feet burned
at the time when the preceding gas bill was rendered. This is generally called on the bill "present
state of meter." The result of the subtraction will be the amount of gas that has been burned since
the last bill was rendered.

For example: 95,300, amount indicated on dial. 82,700, amount marked "present state of meter"
on preceding gas bill.------ 12,600, amount of gas for which current
bill is rendered.

Equal care must be exercised when kerosene is used for illumination, since, while it is not
so dangerous directly to life, it is the chief source of the destruction of property. Accordingly
the nature of kerosene and the way it illuminates is a profitable subject of study if we would prevent
destructive fires. Really, we do not burn the oil, but the gas that arises from the oil when
liberated by the burning wick and becomes incandescent when fed by the oxygen of the air. While
kerosene requires a high temperature for combustion, it is closely related to other products
of coal oil, such as naphtha and gasoline, which become inflammable at a low heat and are
therefore very dangerous. Since the cheap grades of kerosene approach these products in quality,
care should be taken to see that it is of high "proof" in order to prevent explosions. The
proof required of kerosene differs in various States; that in some is as low as 100 degrees
Fahrenheit, that is, the temperature at which the oil will give off vapors that will ignite.
This is too low a proof, for such a degree of temperature is quite common in the household. It
is safe only to use that kerosene which is at least 140 degrees proof, for then, even though
the oil is spilled, there is little danger that it will ignite except in the immediate presence
of flame. There is no danger at all in soaking wood with this kind of oil in a stove or grate wherein
the fire has gone out.

To test kerosene, put a thermometer into a cup partially filled with cold water, and add boiling
water until the mercury stands at 130 degrees Fahrenheit. Then take out the thermometer and pour
two teaspoonfuls of kerosene into the cup and pass over it the flame of a candle. If the oil ignites,
it is unsafe.

In order to prevent the flame from running down into the lamp and causing an explosion, the
wick should be soft, filling the burner completely. The highest efficiency in the form of illumination
is obtained by round burners, especially those in lamps which admit air to the inside of the
wick and so induce the largest possible amount of combustion. Such a lamp produces quite a
high degree of heat, and will answer the purpose of an oil-stove
in a small room.

Contrary to the popular idea, wicks should be carefully trimmed with scissors rather than with
a match or other instrument. In extinguishing a lamp one should first turn down the wick and
blow across the chimney, never down the chimney.

Owing to the fact that the wick is constantly bringing up oil by capillary attraction, whether it
is lighted or unlighted, lamps in which the wicks have not been cared are kept continually
greasy. In fact, a lamp that is greasy or that gives out a bad odor is one that has not been properly
cared. With due attention, lamps are as clean and handy a means of
illumination as any other form.

Candles,
that are now used chiefly for decorative purposes, may still be practically employed for carrying
light about the house. The danger from a falling candle carried by a child up to bed is not nearly
so great as that which may result from either spilt oil from a broken lamp or the cutting glass
of its chimney.

To those who live in an old house, all the foregoing advice should prove a source of helpfulness
in making the best of the old home, rather than of dissatisfaction with its seeming shortcomings. There
are many simple, inexpensive ways of making it conform to the model house. Expense need only
be incurred in sanitary improvement, such as the better drainage of the cellar, enabling it
to be utilized for purposes which now crowd the "work-rooms" of the home, and the alterations
of the windows to permit better lighting and ventilation. Very often a room can be made to exchange
purposes by a simple transference of furniture, thus saving the housekeeper steps. A woodhouse
can be converted into a summer kitchen, and the old one, during this season, used as a dining-room,
though it may be found even pleasanter to eat out of doors under an arbor or on a wide piazza.
A porch may be partitioned off into a laundry, and the attic ceiled and partitioned for use as
a bedroom. Very often an old boxed-off stairway, built in the days when it was thought unseemly
to show a connection with the upper bedrooms, can be relieved of its door and walls, to the
increase of space in the lower room, and of the beauty of its appearance. Indeed, as a rule, there
are too many doors in an old house. Some of these can be altered into open arched entrances,
making one large commodious room out of two little inconvenient ones. Unused out-buildings
can be turned into playrooms for the children, and even sleeping quarters. All these are changes
that make for the beauty no less than the utility of home, as proved by the fact that many artists,
especially those who have studied abroad where old country houses are more or less of this unconventional
character, go into the country and alter in this fashion old and even abandoned houses into houses
admired for their charming individuality.

Illustrations of such "hermitages" frequently appear in the magazines, and may be studied for suggestions.
Sometimes the alteration is of the exterior only. The repainting in a proper color, or the simple creosote
staining of a weather-beaten house, with the addition of a rustic porch or the breaking of a
corner bedroom into a balcony, will sometimes so transform an old house that it looks as if it
were a new creation.

WILLIAM COWPER-- The Task.

Utility, comfort and elegance are, as Cowper shows, the three successive purposes for which
furniture was designed. And to-day the order of development remains also the order of importance.
The first things to be desired in any article of furniture are durability and simple application
to its purpose. These being found, a person naturally looks to see if the use of them will contribute
to his physical pleasure as well as his convenience, that the back of a chair is the right
height and curvature to fit his back, and the seat is not so deep as to strain his legs; that
the table or desk is one he can spread his legs under in natural fashion, and rest his elbows upon
with ease; in short, that the furniture conforms to his bodily requirements, as the chair and bed of
the "wee teenty bear" suited exactly the little old woman of Southey's tale. Last of all, the
aesthetic pleasure, the appreciation of beauty by the mind, decides the choice in cases of equal
utility and comfort. The artistic considerations are so many that furniture has become a branch
of art, like sculpture or painting, with a large literature and history
of its own.

Since most authorities on the subject largely ignore the questions
of utility and comfort, devoting themselves to the questions of aesthetic
style, it will be useful to our purpose here to confine the discussion
to the neglected qualities.

As a rule, a durable, useful, and comfortable article is a beautiful one. At least it has the beauty
of "grace," by which terms the old writers on aesthetics characterized perfect adaptation to
purpose, and the beauty of what they called "homeliness," or, as we would now say, since this
term has been perverted, of "hominess," the suggestion of adding
to the pleasure of the household.

The
quality of "hominess" is greatly increased in an article of furniture by a frank look or "home-made"
appearance. There is no more delightful occupation for the leisure hours of a man or woman,
and no more useful training for a boy or girl, than the making of simple articles of home furniture.
Really, the first article of furniture which should be brought into the house is a well-equipped
tool-chest, and the first room which should be fitted up is the workshop. A vast amount of
labor will be saved thereby in unpacking, adjusting, repairing, and polishing the old and
the new household articles, so that life in the new home be begun under the favorable auspices
of the great household deity, the Goddess of Order. When it is further considered that often small
repairs made by a carpenter cost more than a new article, the tool-chest will be valued by
the family as a most profitable investment.

If it is not possible to procure the proper materials and tools for making the entire article,
some part of the work, the shaping, and certainly the staining and polishing, can be done at
home. If the visitor does not recognize the home quality in such an article, the maker does,
and will always have a pride and affection for it.

Many furniture manufacturers give in their catalogues designs of semi-made or "knock together"
furniture, that is, the parts of tables, chairs, etc., cut out and
planed, which it is intended that the purchaser put together himself.

These, as a rule, are made of good material befitting the hand workmanship which will be put
upon them, and are offered at a considerable reduction from the price asked for ready-made
furniture of the same material.

Furniture stains of excellent quality are found in every hardware store and paint shop, which
can easily be applied by the merest amateur.

It is never wise to buy flimsy furniture, however cheap. As a rule, there is too much furniture
in the American home. It is better to get along with a few good, durable articles, even though
a little expensive, than with a profusion of inferior ones. These soon reveal their "cheap and
nasty qualities," are in constant need of repair, and quickly descend from the place of honor
in the parlor to be endured a while in the living room, then abused in the kitchen, and, finally,
burnt as fuel. Good wood and leather, however, are long in becoming shabby, and even then require
only a little attention to be restored to good condition. When it is considered that in furniture
there is virtually no monopoly of design or invention, and one therefore pays for material and
labor alone, and competition has reduced these to the lowest terms, the purchaser is certain to get
the worth of his money when he pays a higher price for durable material and honest workmanship.
When it is further recalled that our chief heirlooms from the former generations are tables and
chairs and bureaus, it will appear that it is our duty to hand down to our children furniture of
similar durability and honest quality. Therefore, money spent for good furniture may be considered
as a permanent investment whose returns are comfort and satisfaction in the present, and loving
remembrance in the days to come.

So often is the artistic beauty of a house destroyed by a bad selection and arrangement of furniture
and choice of inharmonious decorations, that many architects are coming to advise, and even dictate,
the style of everything that goes into the house. Thus Colonial furniture is prescribed for
a residence in Colonial style, Mission furniture for Mission architecture, etc. There is a corresponding
movement among makers of artistic furniture to plan houses suited to their particular styles.
Thus "Craftsman" houses and "Craftsman" furniture are designed by
the same business interest.

Since, however, the average American home is something of a composite in architectural design,
the housekeeper may be permitted to exercise her taste in making selections from the infinite
variety of styles of furniture that are offered her by the manufacturers of the country. It is
advisable, however, that the furniture in each room be in harmony.

Let us briefly examine the articles of furniture and styles of decoration appropriate for the
several rooms.

The hall, now often the smallest, most ill-considered part of the house, was once its chief glory.
In the old days in England, and, indeed, in America, the word was
used as synonymous with the mansion, as Bracebridge Hall, Haddon Hall,
etc. It was the largest apartment, the center of family and social
life. Here the inmates and their guests feasted and danced and sang.
Gradually it was divided off into rooms for specific purposes, until
now in general practice it has narrowed down to a mere vestibule or
entrance to the other rooms, with only those articles of furniture
in it which are useful to the one coming in or going out of the house,
combination stands with mirror, pins for hanging up hats and overcoats,
umbrella holder, a chair or so, or a settee for the guest awaiting
reception, etc. Often the chair or settee is of the most uncomfortable
design, conspiring with the narrow quarters to make the visitor's
impression of the house and its inmates a very disagreeable one. If
space is lacking to make the hall a comfortable and pleasing room,
it should be abolished, and the visitor, if a social one, taken at
once to the parlor, and if a business one, to the living-room.

Where,
however, size permits it, the hall should be made the most attractive
part of the house. Here is the proper place for a "Grandfather's Clock,"
a rug or so of artistic design, and a jardiniere holding growing plants
or flowers. The wallpaper should be simple and dignified in design,
but of cheerful tone. Some shade of red is always appropriate. Remember
in choosing decorations that the colors of the spectrum-- violet, indigo,
blue, green, yellow, orange, red-- run the gamut of emotive influence
from depression to exhilaration. Violet and indigo lower the spirits,
blue and green hold them in peaceful equilibrium, yellow begins to
cheer them, and orange and red excite them.

However, the color scheme
of a hall is largely dependent upon the wood-finish, because of the
amount of this shown in the stairs.

Dark red is a very suitable color
for the stair-carpet. The best way to fasten this is by a recent invisible
contrivance which goes underneath the material. Brass rods are ornamental,
rather too much so, and carpet tacks are provoking, both in putting
down and taking up the carpet.

Where the hall and stairway are wide
and room-like, pictures should be hung on the walls, interesting in
subject and cheerful in decorative tone. The presence of the stairway,
especially if this is broken by a landing, permits quite a variety
of arrangement. The line of ascent should be followed only approximately.
 They have faced and refuted the
calumnies of their enemies, and proved themselves to be emphatically peace men by never resisting
the violence of mobs, even when driven by them from the temple of God, and dragged by an infuriated
crowd through the streets of the emporium of New-England, or subjected by slaveholders to the
pain of corporal punishment. "None of these things move them;" and, by the grace of God, they
are determined to persevere in this work of faith and labor of love: they mean to pray, and
preach, and write, and print, until slavery is completely overthrown, until Babylon is taken
up and cast into the sea, to "be found no more at all." They mean to petition Congress year
after year, until the seat of our government is cleansed from the sinful traffic of "slaves
and the souls of men." Although that august assembly may be like the unjust judge who "feared
not God neither regarded man," yet it must yield just as he did, from the power of importunity.
Like the unjust judge, Congress must redress the wrongs of the widow, lest by the continual
coming up of petitions, it be wearied. This will be striking the dagger into the very heart
of the monster, and once 'tis done, he must soon expire.

Abolitionists have been accused of abusing their Southern brethren. Did the prophet Isaiah
abuse the Jews when he addressed to them the cutting reproofs contained in the first chapter
of his prophecies, and ended by telling them, they would be ashamed of the oaks they had desired,
and confounded for the garden they had chosen? Did John the Baptist abuse the Jews when he
called them "a generation of vipers," and warned them "to bring forth fruits meet for repentance?"
Did Peter abuse the Jews when he told them they were the murderers of the Lord of Glory? Did
Paul abuse the Roman Governor when he reasoned before him of righteousness, temperance, and
judgment, so as to send conviction home to his guilty heart, and cause him to tremble in view
of the crimes he was living in? Surely not. No man will now accuse the prophets and apostles
of abuse, but what have Abolitionists done more than they? No doubt the Jews thought the prophets
and apostles in their day, just as harsh and uncharitable as slaveholders now, think Abolitionists;
if they did not, why did they beat, and stone, and kill them?

Great fault has been found with the prints which have been employed to expose slavery at the
North, but my friends, how could this be done so effectually in any other way? Until the pictures
of the slave's sufferings were drawn and held up to public gaze, no Northerner had any idea
of the cruelty of the system, it never entered their minds that such abominations could exist
in Christian, Republican America; they never suspected that many of the gentlemen and ladies
who came from the South to spend the summer months in travelling among them, were petty tyrants
at home. And those who had lived at the South, and came to reside at the North, were too ashamed
of slavery even to speak of it; the language of their hearts was, "tell it not in Gath, publish
it not in the streets of Askelon;" they saw no use in uncovering the loathsome body to popular
sight, and in hopeless despair, wept in secret places over the sins of oppression. To such
hidden mourners the formation of Anti-Slavery Societies was as life from the dead, the first
beams of hope which gleamed through the dark clouds of despondency and grief. Prints were made
use of to effect the abolition of the Inquisition in Spain, and Clarkson employed them when
he was laboring to break up the Slave trade, and English Abolitionists used them just as we
are now doing. They are powerful appeals and have invariably done the work they were designed
to do, and we cannot consent to abandon the use of these until the realities no longer exist.

With regard to those white men, who, it was said, did try to raise an insurrection in Mississippi
a year ago, and who were stated to be Abolitionists, none of them were proved to be members
of Anti-Slavery Societies, and it must remain a matter of great doubt whether, even they were
guilty of the crimes alledged against them, because when any community is thrown into such
a panic as to inflict Lynch law upon accused persons, they cannot be supposed to be capable
of judging with calmness and impartiality. We know that the papers of which the Charleston
mail was robbed, were not insurrectionary, and that they were not sent to the colored people
as was reported. We know that Amos Dresser was no insurrectionist though he was accused of
being so, and on this false accusation was publicly whipped in Nashville in the midst of a
crowd of infuriated slaveholders. Was that young man disgraced by this infliction of corporal
punishment? No more than was the great apostle of the Gentiles who five times received forty
stripes, save one. Like him, he might have said, "henceforth I bear in my body the marks of
the Lord Jesus," for it was for the truth's sake, he suffered, as much as did the Apostle Paul.
Are Nelson, and Garrett, and Williams, and other Abolitionists who have recently been banished
from Missouri, insurrectionists? We know they are not, whatever slaveholders may choose to
call them. The spirit which now asperses the character of the Abolitionists, is the very same
which dressed up the Christians of Spain in the skins of wild beasts and pictures of devils
when they were led to execution as heretics. Before we condemn individuals, it is necessary,
even in a wicked community, to accuse them of some crime; hence, when Jezebel wished to compass
the death of Naboth, men of Belial were suborned to bear false witness against him, and so
it was with Stephen, and so it ever has been, and ever will be, as long as there is any virtue
to suffer on the rack, or the gallows. False witnesses must appear against Abolitionists before
they can be condemned.

I will now say a few words on George Thompson's mission to this country. This Philanthropist
was accused of being a foreign emissary. Were La Fayette, and Steuben, and De Kalb, foreign
emissaries when they came over to America to fight against the tories, who preferred submitting
to what was termed, "the yoke of servitude," rather than bursting the fetters which bound them
to the mother country? They came with carnal weapons to engage in bloody conflict against American
citizens, and yet, where do their names stand on the page of History. Among the honorable,
or the low? Thompson came here to war against the giant sin of slavery, not with the sword
and the pistol, but with the smooth stones of oratory taken from the pure waters of the river
of Truth. His splendid talents and commanding eloquence rendered him a powerful coadjutor in
the Anti-Slavery cause, and in order to neutralize the effects of these upon his auditors,
and rob the poor slave of the benefits of his labors, his character was defamed, his life was
sought, and he at last driven from our Republic, as a fugitive. But was Thompson disgraced
by all this mean and contemptible and wicked chicanery and malice? No more than was Paul, when
in consequence of a vision he had seen at Troas, he went over to Macedonia to help the Christians
there, and was beaten and imprisoned, because he cast out a spirit of divination from a young
damsel which had brought much gain to her masters. Paul was as much a foreign emissary in the
Roman colony of Philippi, as George Thompson was in America, and it was because he was a Jew,
and taught customs it was not lawful for them to receive or observe, being Romans, that the
Apostle was thus treated.

It was said, Thompson was a felon, who had fled to this country to escape transportation to
New Holland. Look at him now pouring the thundering strains of his eloquence, upon crowded
audiences in Great Britain, and see in this a triumphant vindication of his character. And
have the slaveholder, and his obsequious apologist, gained any thing by all their violence
and falsehood? No! for the stone which struck Goliath of Gath, had already been thrown from
the sling. The giant of slavery who had so proudly defied the armies of the living God, had
received his death-blow before he left our shores. But what is George Thompson doing there?
Is he not now laboring there, as effectually to abolish American slavery as though he trod
our own soil, and lectured to New York or Boston assemblies? What is he doing there, but constructing
a stupendous dam, which will turn the overwhelming tide of public opinion over the wheels of
that machinery which Abolitionists are working here. He is now lecturing to Britons on American
Slavery, to the subjects of a King, on the abject condition of the slaves of a Republic. He
is telling them of that mighty confederacy of petty tyrants which extends ever thirteen States
of our Union. He is telling them of the munificent rewards offered by slaveholders, for the
heads of the most distinguished advocates for freedom in this country. He is moving the British
Churches to send out to the churches of America the most solemn appeals, reproving, rebuking,
and exhorting them with all long suffering and patience to abandon the sin of slavery immediately.
Where then I ask, will the name of George Thompson stand on the page of History? Among the
honorable, or the base?

What can I say more, my friends, to induce you to set your hands, and heads, and hearts, to
this great work of justice and mercy. Perhaps you have feared the consequences of immediate
Emancipation, and been frightened by all those dreadful prophecies of rebellion, bloodshed
and murder, which have been uttered. "Let no man deceive you;" they are the predictions of
that same "lying spirit" which spoke through the four thousand prophets of old, to Ahab king
of Israel, urging him on to destruction. Slavery may produce these horrible scenes if it is
continued five years longer, but Emancipation never will.

I can prove the safety of immediate Emancipation by history. In St. Domingo in 1793 six hundred
thousand slaves were set free in a white population of forty-two thousand. That Island "marched
as by enchantment towards its ancient splendor", cultivation prospered, every day produced
perceptible proofs of its progress, and the negroes all continued quietly to work on the different
plantations, until in 1802, France determined to reduce these liberated slaves again to bondage.
It was at this time that all those dreadful scenes of cruelty occurred, which we so often unjustly
hear spoken of, as the effects of Abolition. They were occasioned not by Emancipation, but
by the base attempt to fasten the chains of slavery on the limbs of liberated slaves. 

Since payment for the individual drawing is more customary than employing an artist at a fixed salary,
illustrating and the designing of advertisements can be done at home. There are many young
girls just out of the art-school who earn from$ 25 to$ 50 a week
by such "piece-work."

Akin to this work is the designing of book-covers, for which publishers
pay from$ 15 to$ 25 each.

Of
a more mechanical nature is making the drawings for commercial catalogues, and the prices paid
are low,$ 9 a week being the rule for beginners. Designers of patterns, etc., for various manufacturers
receive a similar amount at first. They may hope, after several years of experience, to rise
to$ 25 a week, or possibly$ 30 or$ 35.

Teaching is a profession that is particularly the province of the unmarried woman. The best teachers
are those who have chosen it as their life-work, and have therefore thoroughly prepared themselves
for it. A girl who takes a school position merely for the money that there is in it, expecting
to give it up in a year or so, when she hopes to marry, is inflicting
a grievous wrong on the children under her charge.

There are other remunerative employments where her lack of serious intention will not be productive
of lasting injury. Lack of preparation for teaching generally goes with this lack of intention,
doubling the injury. Against this the examination for the school certificate is not always
a sufficient safeguard, since many girls are clever enough to "cram up" sufficiently to pass
the examination who have not had the perseverance necessary to master
the subjects they are to teach, not to speak of that interest in the
broad subject of pedagogy, without which the application of its principles
in teaching the various branches is certain to be neglected.

Enthusiasm in her profession, a whole-hearted interest in each pupil as an individual personality
should characterize every teacher, for next to the mother, she plays the most important part
in the development of the coming generation.

There is a general complaint that the salaries of school-teachers are too low, measured by
the rewards of persons of corresponding ability in other professions. When, however, the certainty
of pay and the virtual assurance that the employment is for life if good service is rendered,
are considered, together with the respect accorded the teacher by the community and the fact
that her work necessarily tends to the cultivation of her mind, the
lot of the school-teacher must be reckoned as one of the most favored.

Americans are more prone than any other people to spend money on
education, and this spirit is ever increasing, so that the school-teacher
is more certain than the member of any other profession that she will
be rewarded worthily in the future.

The establishment of the Carnegie pension fund for retired college
professors is an indication of this growing spirit, as well as the
recent advance of the salaries of public school teachers in New York
City and elsewhere, in recognition of the increase in the cost of
living.

       To the bright woman who is interested in the study of civics, political
economy, and sociology, there is opportunity to earn a living at home
by organizing classes in these subjects among the club-women of her
town.

Teachers of parliamentary law are in especial demand.

       The organization of a mock congress for parliamentary practise is
the most entertaining as well as the most improving play in which
women can join.

There is also a demand among women who seek an intellectual element
in their recreation for instruction in the games of bridge-whist,
whist, and chess.

Bridge-whist is the most popular, largely because of the desire to
win money and valuable prizes at the game.

Then, too, a greater amount of time is spent at it than is legitimate
for recreation.

For moral reasons, therefore, the teaching of it cannot be recommended.

    Straight whist is also played occasionally for money, but this
    practise, happily, is rapidly becoming obsolete. Chess, except among
    professionals, is played purely for sport, and
    is therefore the best of games to study. Unfortunately there
    is very little demand for instruction in it by women; nevertheless,
it is the best of all games for cultivating the analytical power of
the mind, a faculty in which women, as a rule, are weak. But I feel an interest in you, as branches of the same vine from whose root I daily
draw the principle of spiritual vitality--Yes! Sisters in Christ I feel an interest in you,
and often has the secret prayer arisen on your behalf, Lord "open thou their eyes that they
may see wondrous things out of thy Law"--It is then, because I do feel and do pray for you,
that I thus address you upon a subject about which of all others, perhaps you would rather
not hear any thing; but, "would to God ye could bear with me a little in my folly, and indeed
bear with me, for I am jealous over you with godly jealousy." Be not afraid then to read my
appeal; it is not written in the heat of passion or prejudice, but in that solemn calmness
which is the result of conviction and duty. It is true, I am going to tell you unwelcome truths,
but I mean to speak these truths in love, and remember Solomon says, "faithful are the wounds
of a friend." I do not believe the time has yet come when Christian women "will not endure
sound doctrine," even on the subject of Slavery, if it is spoken to them in tenderness and
love, therefore I now address you.

       *       *       *       *       *

POSTAGE.--This periodical contains four and a half sheets. Postage under 100 miles, 6 3-4 cents;
over 100 miles, 11 1-4 cents.

PLEASE READ AND CIRCULATE.

       *       *       *       *       *

To all of you then, known or unknown, relatives or strangers, (for you are all one in Christ,)
I would speak. I have felt for you at this time, when unwelcome light is pouring in upon the
world on the subject of slavery; light which even Christians would exclude, if they could,
from our country, or at any rate from the southern portion of it, saying, as its rays strike
the rock bound coasts of New England and scatter their warmth and radiance over her hills and
valleys, and from thence travel onward over the Palisades of the Hudson, and down the soft
flowing waters of the Delaware and gild the waves of the Potomac, "hitherto shalt thou come
and no further;" I know that even professors of His name who has been emphatically called the
"Light of the world" would, if they could, build a wall of adamant around the Southern States
whose top might reach unto heaven, in order to shut out the light which is bounding from mountain
to mountain and from the hills to the plains and valleys beneath, through the vast extent of
our Northern States. But believe me, when I tell you, their attempts will be as utterly fruitless
as were the efforts of the builders of Babel; and why? Because moral, like natural light, is
so extremely subtle in its nature as to overleap all human barriers, and laugh at the puny
efforts of man to control it. All the excuses and palliations of this system must inevitably
be swept away, just as other "refuges of lies" have been, by the irresistible torrent of a
rectified public opinion. "The supporters of the slave system," says Jonathan Dymond in his
admirable work on the Principles of Morality, "will hereafter be regarded with the same public
feeling, as he who was an advocate for the slave trade now is." It will be, and that very soon,
clearly perceived and fully acknowledged by all the virtuous and the candid, that in principle
it is as sinful to hold a human being in bondage who has been born in Carolina, as one who
has been born in Africa. All that sophistry of argument which has been employed to prove, that
although it is sinful to send to Africa to procure men and women as slaves, who have never
been in slavery, that still, it is not sinful to keep those in bondage who have come down by
inheritance, will be utterly overthrown. In almost every old house there is a horse-hair sofa,
either put away in the attic or even in use, which can be reupholstered to fit the color-scheme
of the room.

Books naturally form the chief ornament of the library. It is a mistake to give them an elaborate
casing. The simplest form is the best; the shelves should run up evenly from the floor to a more
or less ornamental and somewhat projecting top, terminating several feet from the ceiling.
On this top a bust or so of an author may be appropriately placed, or copies of an ancient
statue, and on the wall above, between the cases of shelves, may hang a few pictures, not necessarily
bookish in suggestion, but reposeful in subject and tone, such as
landscapes and marines.

A writing desk of comfortable size, with its chair, is essential in every library. It should be as
far away as possible from the type of the modern business desk, and therefore an old-fashioned
article with a sloping top, which, when let down, serves for the writing board, is an ideal
form. Manufacturers continue to make these desks for home purposes.

The library table should be large and simple. One that is oval in shape is the best for the family
to gather about, and therefore gives the most homelike appearance. The illumination of the library
should center either upon this table, if a lamp is used, or above it, if gas or electric light. The
desk should have a side-light of its own.

Modern library conveniences are presented in so handy and presentable shapes that the room
may be perfectly equipped as a literary workshop without crowding it, or detracting from its
appearance. A dictionary holder (wooden, not wire), a revolving bookcase for other works of
reference, and a card index of the library may complete the equipment. It will be well to utilize
one or more of the drawers of the desk as a file for clippings. These should be kept in stout
manila envelopes, slightly less in size than the width and height of the drawer, and with the
names of subjects contained, and arranged in alphabetical order.

The carpet should be plain in design, and underlaid with padding.

The curtains should be of heavier and darker stuff than those in the parlor, and easily adjusted
to admit the light.

The library and living room are generally next each other, and so each may and should have a
fireplace in the common chimney. That of the library should be of severer design; that of the
living-room more homelike. Dutch tiles, with pictures that interest children, are specially
appropriate for the latter.

Where the father of the family demands a "den" for reading and smoking, this may be a small room
on the same general order as the library, but with an emphasis on comfort. Thus, the sofa should
be replaced by a wide divan, which may also serve on occasion as a sleeping-place. The Turkish
style of furnishing is the customary one; the Japanese style being a fad that came in with the aesthetic
craze, was carried to an uncomfortable excess, and has gone out of fashion. The most appropriate
style for an American house is American Indian. The brilliant and strikingly designed Navajo
blankets may be used for both rugs and couch covers, or hung up as wall-ornaments. Moqui basketware
serves equally well for useful purposes, such as scrap-baskets, and for ornamentation. The
pottery of the Pueblo Indians, being naive and primitive in design, is much more intimate and therefore
appropriate than the Japanese bric-a-brac which it replaces.

The living-room is the heart of the house, and everything in it should be of a nature to collect
loving associations. Almost any style of furniture is admissible into it, if only it is comfortable.
There should be rocking-chairs, for the woman and the neighbors who drop in to see her, other
chairs stout enough for a man to tip back upon the hind legs, and little chairs, or a little
settee by the fireplace, for the children. The mother's desk should stand here, plainer than the
one in the library, but of design similar to it; there should be a sofa as comfortable as
the library one, to which the mother should have the first right. The paper should be cheerful
in its tone and with a definite design. This will become endeared by association with home to
the children, and the mother should be slow to replace it. The window draperies may be home-made,
such as of rough-finished silk or embroidered canvas, and the floor covered with a thick rag-carpet,
preferably of a nondescript or "hit-and-miss" design. If the housekeeper thinks that this is
"hominess" carried to excess, she may cover the floor with an ingrain carpet, or better, plain
filling of a medium shade, on which a few rag rugs are laid, light in color. Very artistic
carpets and rugs are made out of old carpets and sold at reasonable figures, and there still
remain in some small towns throughout the country weavers who weave into carpets the carpet-rags
sewn together by housewives for the price of their labor alone.

There is a reason additional to its economy why this practice should not die out. The tearing up into
strips of old garments, and the tacking of their ends together with needle and thread is work
eminently suited for children, and one in which they take great pride, as it gives them a share
in the creation of a useful and beautiful household article.

The dining-room should be decorated in accordance with the quantity of daylight it receives. It
should be, if possible, a light room, with preferably the morning
sun.

In this case, it is properly furnished and decorated in dark tones, on the order of the library;
if the room is dark, the furniture, wood-finish, and wall-paper should be warm and light in
feeling. The housekeeper has a wide variety of sets of dining table and chairs to choose from. Whatever
she selects should be distinguished by the quality of dignity. Here is the one room in the
house where formality is thoroughly in place; it is at table where bad manners are wont most
to show themselves among children, and laxity in etiquette among their parents. Just as the exclusive
use of the room for eating purposes saves labor in housework, so
will its dignity in decoration aid in enforcing the mother's teaching
of good habits to the children.

Here, if anywhere in the house, plain wall-paper should be used, since
the chief decorations are the china closet, cabinet and sideboard.

The dining-room ought not to have a fire-place or stove if other means of heating it are available,
since heat, like food, should be equally distributed to those at
table.

Preference in seating should be a matter of honor rather than of
material advantage.

Comfort and cleanliness are the qualities which condition the equipment
and decoration of the bed-room.

When one considers that a third of a man's life is spent in bed, it will be seen how exceedingly
important is the selection of this article of furniture. The essential parts of a good bed
are spring and mattress, and no expense should be spared here in securing the best. The frame,
which though the ornamental part is the least essential, is a matter of indifferent consideration.
There is no better kind of a bedstead than an iron or brass one,
because of cleanliness and strength and the ease with which it may
be taken apart and put together again.

The pillows deserve almost equal consideration with the mattress. Since the feathers used in stuffing
pillows may be cleaned, it is economical to see that these are of the best quality. Bed clothing
is often selected under the mistaken impression that weight is synonymous with warmth, and heavy
quilted comforts are chosen instead of lighter, woolen blankets.

The pure woolen blanket is the ideal bed-covering and in various degrees of thickness may serve
for all of the bed clothes save the sheets, and the light white coverlet, which is placed over
all merely for appearance.

With increasing attention paid to hygiene, single beds rather than double are coming into favor.
Even where two people occupy the same room they will be more comfortable in different beds.
It is a mistake for young people and infants to sleep with older people, or for those who are
well and strong with sickly or delicate persons, as there is apt to be a loss of vitality
to the more vigorous party.

Everything connected with the bed should be regularly and thoroughly sunned and aired. The occupant
on rising should throw back the bed-clothes over the foot of the bed, or, indeed, take them
off and hang them over a chair in the sunlight.

The first thing in making a bed should be to turn the mattress. The lower sheet is then put on right
side up and with the large end at the top. This is tucked in carefully all around, then the
covering sheet is put on with the large end at the top, but the right side under. This is
tucked in only at the foot in order to permit the bed to be easily entered. Over these the blankets
are placed and folded back at the head under the fold of the upper sheet. Pillow-shams should
never be used, as ornamentation on a bed is not necessary, and if it were a sham is never an
ornament.

The walls of bedrooms may very properly be painted, as also the floors, to permit scrubbing,
especially after the illness of an occupant. If papered, a chintz pattern is preferable; cretonne
of similar design should then be used for furniture slips, etc. The woodwork may be white,
with the chairs to match.

There should be washable cotton rag-rugs, loosely woven to be grateful to the bare feet, at
the bedside and in front of the bureau, dressing-table and doorway. Where space is limited,
a combined bureau and dressing-table, or even a chiffonier with a
mirror, may be used.

A child's bedroom may very appropriately have a wall-paper of a design intended to interest it,
such as representations of animals, scenes from Mother Goose, etc. This is also suitable for
the nursery.

The guest-room has come to be the chambre de luxe of the house, the place in which every conceivable
article is introduced that might be required by the visitor, all being of expensive quality.
Probably it is best to conform to this practice, since it is an expected thing, but money spent on
the guest-room beyond that necessary to make it simply the best bedroom in the house, brings smaller returns
in usage than anywhere else. The average guest is more pleased with a room such as he sleeps in
himself at home, than with one where elegance seems too fine for use.

It was a plainsman, who, being lodged in such a room on a visit to civilization, slept on
the floor rather than touch the immaculate pillow-shams and bed-cover,
which he conceived to be parts of the bed clothing not designed for
use.

The window-shades of a house, since they show without, should be uniform in color, and no attempt
be made to suit the individual decoration of a room to them. The material should be plain
Holland, white or buff when there are outside blinds, otherwise green or blue. In recent years
shutters, or outside blinds, have come somewhat into disuse. This is, on the whole, perhaps
an improvement, for they are rarely manipulated with judgment, being either left open or kept shut
for continuous periods.

In the latter case they darken rooms which, though unused, would have been better for the
admission of sunlight. The reason for this lack of manipulation is that they are opened and
fastened with difficulty from the inside. All the purpose of the outside blinds is served by inside
blinds, which are much more easily operated, and lend themselves
admirably to decoration.

One form of these, known as Venetian blinds, consisting of parallel
wooden slats, strung on tapes, is coming again into vogue.

They are cheaper than the usual sort of blinds, and are very durable as well as artistic. After
all, however, shades are the most practical form of modulating the
entrance of light into a house.

But one upon earth is more beautiful and better than the wife-- that
is the mother.-- L. SCHEFER.

Tennyson
says, "The bearing and the training of a child is woman's wisdom."

Herein nature is ever urging her to the proper course.

Thus the love of the newborn infant prompts the mother to feed him with her own milk, and
this supplies exactly the elements he requires for healthy development. No other milk, however
skillfully modulated, no "infant's food," however scientifically
prepared, can fully take its place.

Unless illness prevents her from feeding her own child, or she is of a moody and unhappy disposition,
it is the mother's place to give her breast to the infant. The condition of mind of the mother
has a great deal to do with the quality of the milk.

A despondent and excitable temperament is often more productive of harm than a low physical
condition. It is hardly necessary to warn the mother to be careful of her diet, as this has
immediate effect on the quality of the milk.

Of course, any drink containing alcohol must be avoided. Tea and coffee, except when taken in weak
strength, have also a deleterious effect. Milk, and next to it, cocoa, are the best beverages
for the mother. Mothers should also avoid taking medicine except
when positively required.

There is no need for the mother to vary greatly her solid diet. She will naturally select that which
is most nutritious and easily digested. Anything that tends to make her costive, such as fruits
or green vegetables, should be partaken of with discrimination.

The baby should be fed with systematic regularity from the beginning.
While a child does not need food for the first day after birth, nevertheless
it is well to put it to the breast about six hours after birth, since
for the first few days after child-birth the breasts secrete a laxative
element which acts as a sort of physic upon the child, clearing its
bowels of a black, tarry substance, that fills them. The full supply
of normal milk comes after the third day. After the first feeding
the baby should be put to the breast every four hours for the first
day and after that every two hours, being kept there about twenty
minutes each time. The mother should be watchful and see that the
child is awake and is nursing. Even at this early age it can be compelled
to learn a good habit. Unless it learns this habit, the mother will
be put to great inconvenience and the baby will suffer because of
the disarrangement of the systematic feeding. If he is allowed to
nurse at his own pleasure, the results will quickly make themselves
manifest in the form of colic, leading to wakefulness and bad temper.

A
baby should not remain awake more than four hours in the day on the
whole, and he should be so trained that the eight hours from ten o'clock
at night to six in the morning, when his mother is sleeping, should
be for him also an uninterrupted period of slumber.

The baby should
be weaned at ten months unless he is unwell at the time or the weaning
comes in the heat of the summer, when there is danger of his becoming
sickly or peevish. Preparatory to weaning, the baby should be accustomed
to the bottle. Provided the bottle holds half a pint or four glasses,
the number of bottles may be increased from one a day at four months
to two or six at eight months. The baby should certainly be weaned
by the time it is a year old, as, even though the mother continues
to have a plentiful supply of milk, this is not suited to his needs
at this stage of his physical development. By this method of approach
the act of permanently refusing the breast to the child will not greatly
offend him. After a little crying he will philosophically accept the
situation and reconcile himself to the substitute.

Weaning is rendered
easier by selecting a nursing-bottle which has the nipple in the shape
of the breast. Care should be taken that the hole in the nipple is
not too large, supplying more milk than the stomach can take care
of as it comes, and so causing stomachic disorder. The nursing bottle
should at all times be kept thoroughly clean by rinsing in hot water
and washing in hot soapsuds. Deut. vi, 9. xi,
20: for ever, i.e., during his life, for Jewish Rabbins, who must have understood Jewish slavery
(as it is called), "affirm that servants were set free at the death of their masters, and did
not descend to their heirs;" or that he was to serve him until the year of Jubilee, when all
servants were set at liberty. The other class, when they first sold themselves, agreed to remain
until the year of Jubilee. To protect servants from violence, it was ordained, that if a master
struck out the tooth or destroyed the eye of a servant, that servant immediately became free,
for such an act of violence evidently showed he was unfit to possess the power of a master,
and therefore that power was taken from him. All servants enjoyed the rest of the Sabbath,
and partook of the privileges and festivities of the three great Jewish Feasts; and if a servant
died under the infliction of chastisement, his master was surely to be punished. As a tooth
for a tooth and life for life was the Jewish law, of course he was punished with death. I know
that great stress has been laid upon the following verse: "Notwithstanding, if he continue
a day or two, he shall not be punished, for he is his money."

Slaveholders, and the apologists of slavery, have eagerly seized upon this little passage of
Scripture, and held it up as the masters' Magna Charta, by which they were licensed by God
himself to commit the greatest outrages upon the defenceless victims of their oppression. But,
my friends, was it designed to be so? If our Heavenly Father would protect by law the eye and
the tooth of a Hebrew servant, can we for a moment believe that he would abandon that same
servant to the brutal rage of a master who would destroy even life itself? Let us then examine
this passage with the help of the context. In the 18th and 19th verses we have a law which
was made for freemen who strove together. Here we find, that if one man smote another, so that
he died not, but only kept his bed from being disabled, and he rose again and walked abroad
upon his staff, then he was to be paid for the loss of his time, and all the expenses of his
sickness were to be borne by the man who smote him. The freeman's time was his own, and therefore
he was to be remunerated for the loss of it. But not so with the servant, whose time was, as
it were, the money of his master, because he had already paid for it: If he continued a day
or two after being struck, to keep his bed in consequence of any wound received, then his lost
time was not to be paid for, because it was not his own, but his master's, who had already
paid him for it. The loss of his time was the master's loss, and not the servant's. This explanation
is confirmed by the fact, that the Hebrew word translated continue, means "to stand still;"
i.e., to be unable to go out about his master's work.

Here then we find this stronghold of slavery completely demolished. Instead of its being a
license to inflict such chastisement upon a servant as to cause even death itself, it is in
fact a law merely to provide that a man should not be required to pay his servant twice over
for his time. It is altogether an unfounded assumption on the part of the slaveholder, that
this servant died after a day or two; the text does not say so, and I contend that he got well
after a day or two, just as the man mentioned in the 19th verse recovered from the effects
of the blows he received. The cases are completely parallel, and the first law throws great
light on the second. This explanation is far more consonant with the character of God, and
were it not that our vision has been so completely darkened by the existence of slavery in
our country, we never could so far have dishonored Him as to have supposed that He sanctioned
the murder of a servant; although slaveholding legislators might legalize the killing of a
slave in four different ways.--(Stroud's Sketch of Slave Laws.)

But I pass on now to the consideration of how the female Jewish servants were protected by law.

1. If she please not her master, who hath betrothed her to himself, then shall he let her be
redeemed: to sell her unto another nation he shall have no power, seeing he hath dealt deceitfully
with her.

2. If he have betrothed her unto his son, he shall deal with her after the manner of daughters.

3. If he take him another wife, her food, her raiment, and her duty of marriage, shall he not
diminish.

4. If he do not these three unto her, then shall she go out free without money.

On these laws I will give you Calmet's remarks; "A father could not sell his daughter as a
slave, according to the Rabbins, until she was at the age of puberty, and unless he were reduced
to the utmost indigence. Besides, when a master bought an Israelitish girl, it was always with
the presumption that he would take her to wife. Hence Moses adds, 'if she please not her master,
and he does not think fit to marry her, he shall set her at liberty,' or according to the Hebrew,
'he shall let her be redeemed.' 'To sell her to another nation he shall have no power, seeing
he hath dealt deceitfully with her;' as to the engagement implied, at least of taking her to
wife. 'If he have betrothed her unto his son, he shall deal with her after the manner of daughters;'
i.e., he shall take care that his son uses her as his wife, that he does not despise or maltreat
her. If he make his son marry another wife, he shall give her her dowry, her clothes, and compensation
for her virginity; if he does none of these three, she shall go out free without money." Thus
were the rights of female servants carefully secured by law under the Jewish Dispensation;
and now I would ask, are the rights of female slaves at the South thus secured? Are they sold
only as wives and daughters-in-law, and when not treated as such, are they allowed to go out
free? No! They have all not only been illegally obtained as servants according to Hebrew law,
but they are also illegally held in bondage. Masters at the South and West have all forfeited
their claims, (if they ever had any,) to their female slaves.

We come now to examine the case of those servants who were "of the heathen round about;" Were
they left entirely unprotected by law? Their strength and numbers, spirit and illumination,
render the experiment dangerous, the defeat certain: The Consignees must attribute to themselves
the loss of the property of the East India Company: had they seasonably quieted the minds of the
people by a resignation, all had been well; the customhouse, and the man who disgraces Majesty
by representing him, acting in confederacy with the inveterate enemies of America, stupidly
opposed every measure concerted to return the Teas.-- That Americans may defeat every attempt
to enslave them, is the warmest wish of my heart. I shall return home doubly fortified in my
resolution to prevent that deprecrated calamity, the landing the teas in Rhode Island, and console
myself with the happiest assurance that my brethren have not less
virtue, less resolution, than their neighbours.

AN IMPARTIAL OBSERVER.***** PUBLISHERS'DEPARTMENT.

We give with this number of the Bay State a fac-simile reproduction,
from a rare copy in our possession, of "An Oration, pronounced at
Hanover, New Hampshire, the Fourth Day of July, 1800," by Daniel
Webster.

This oration was delivered
when the future statesman was in his eighteenth year. It cannot fail
to interest every reader of the Magazine, and will be a treat to
every collector of Americana. Our Lowell article in the March number of The
Bay State Monthly has been severely criticized-- especially the cuts. To the
older residents of that city each picture was of interest from association.


Here, then, we see that by this first law, the door of Freedom was opened wide to every servant
who had any cause whatever for complaint; if he was unhappy with his master, all he had to
do was to leave him, and no man had a right to deliver him back to him again, and not only
so, but the absconded servant was to choose where he should live, and no Jew was permitted
to oppress him. He left his master just as our Northern servants leave us; we have no power
to compel them to remain with us, and no man has any right to oppress them; they go and dwell
in that place where it chooseth them, and live just where they like. Is it so at the South?
Is the poor runaway slave protected by law from the violence of that master whose oppression
and cruelty has driven him from his plantation or his house? No! no! Even the free states of
the North are compelled to deliver unto his master the servant that is escaped from his master
into them. They established a correspondence, in which Marie Antoinette repeatedly showed her
eagerness to gratify his wishes and to attend to his recommendations; and when, at a later period,
unexpected troubles fell on her and her husband, there was no one whom their troubles inspired
with greater eagerness to serve them than Gustavus, whose last projects, before he fell by the
hand of an assassin, were directed to their deliverance from the dangers which, though neither
he nor they were as yet fully alive to their magnitude, were on the
point of overwhelming them.

Marie
Antoinette had long since completed her gardens at the Trianon, but the gradual change in
the arrangements of the court had made a number of alterations requisite at Versailles, with
which the difficulty of finding money rendered it desirable to proceed slowly. It was reckoned
that it would be necessary to give up the greater part of the palace to workmen for ten years; and
as the other palaces which the king possessed in the neighborhood of Paris were hardly suited
for the permanent residence of the court, the queen proposed to her husband to obtain St. Cloud
from the Duc d'Orléans, giving him in exchange La Muette, the Castle of Choisy, and a small adjacent
forest. Such an arrangement would have produced a considerable saving by the reduction of
the establishments kept up at those places, at which the court only spent a few days in each
year. And as the duke was disposed to think that he should be a gainer by the exchange, it
is not very easy to explain how it was that the original project was given up, and that St. Cloud
was eventually sold to the crown for a sum of money, Choisy and La
Muette being also retained.

St. Cloud was bought; and Marie Antoinette, still eager to prevent her own acquisition from being
too costly, proposed to the king that it should he bought in her name, and called her property;
since an establishment for her would naturally lie framed on a more moderate scale than that
of any palace belonging to the king, which was held always to require the appointment of a governor
and deputy-governors, with a corresponding staff of underlings, while she should only require
a porter at the outer gate. The advantage of such a plan was so obvious that it was at once
adopted. The porters and servants wore the queen's livery; and all notices of the regulations to
be observed were signed "In the queen's name. [1]"

Where, then, I would ask, is the warrant, the justification, or the palliation of American
Slavery from Hebrew servitude? How many of the southern slaves would now be in bondage according
to the laws of Moses; Not one. You may observe that I have carefully avoided using the term
slavery when speaking of Jewish servitude; and simply for this reason, that no such thing existed
among that people; the word translated servant does not mean slave, it is the same that is
applied to Abraham, to Moses, to Elisha and the prophets generally. Slavery then never existed
under the Jewish Dispensation at all, and I cannot but regard it as an aspersion on the character
of Him who is "glorious in Holiness" for any one to assert that "God sanctioned, yea commanded
slavery under the old dispensation." I would fain lift my feeble voice to vindicate Jehovah's
character from so foul a slander. If slaveholders are determined to hold slaves as long as
they can, let them not dare to say that the God of mercy and of truth ever sanctioned such
a system of cruelty and wrong. It is blasphemy against Him.

We have seen that the code of laws framed by Moses with regard to servants was designed to
protect them as men and women, to secure to them their rights as human beings, to guard them
from oppression and defend them from violence of every kind. Let us now turn to the Slave laws
of the South and West and examine them too. I will give you the substance only, because I fear
I shall trespass too much on your time, were I to quote them at length.

1. Slavery is hereditary and perpetual, to the last moment of the slave's earthly existence,
and to all his descendants to the latest posterity.

2. The labor of the slave is compulsory and uncompensated; while the kind of labor, the amount
of toil, the time allowed for rest, are dictated solely by the master. No bargain is made,
no wages given. A pure despotism governs the human brute; and even his covering and provender,
both as to quantity and quality, depend entirely on the master's discretion[A].

[Footnote A: There are laws in some of the slave states, limiting the labor which the master
may require of the slave to fourteen hours daily. In some of the states there are laws requiring
the masters to furnish a certain amount of food and clothing, as for instance, one quart of
corn per day, or one peck per week, or one bushel per month, and "one linen shirt and pantaloons
for the summer, and a linen shirt and woolen great coat and pantaloons for the winter," &c.
But "still," to use the language of Judge Stroud "the slave is entirely under the control of
his master.--is unprovided with a protector,--and, especially as he cannot be a witness or
make complaint in any known mode against his master, the apparent object of these laws may
always be defeated." ED.]

3. The slave being considered a personal chattel may be sold or pledged, or leased at the will
of his master. He may be exchanged for marketable commodities, or taken in execution for the
debts or taxes either of a living or dead master. Sold at auction, either individually, or
in lots to suit the purchaser, he may remain with his family, or be separated from them for ever.

4. Slaves can make no contracts and have no legal right to any property, real or personal.
Their own honest earnings and the legacies of friends belong in point of law to their masters.

5. Neither a slave nor a free colored person can be a witness against any white, or free person,
in a court of justice, however atrocious may have been the crimes they have seen him commit,
if such testimony would be for the benefit of a slave; but they may give testimony against
a fellow slave, or free colored man, even in cases affecting life, if the master is to reap
the advantage of it.

6. The slave may be punished at his master's discretion--without trial--without any means of
legal redress; whether his offence be real or imaginary; and the master can transfer the same
despotic power to any person or persons, he may choose to appoint.

7. The slave is not allowed to resist any free man under any circumstances, his only safety
consists in the fact that his owner may bring suit and recover the price of his body, in case
his life is taken, or his limbs rendered unfit for labor.

8. Slaves cannot redeem themselves, or obtain a change of masters, though cruel treatment may
have rendered such a change necessary for their personal safety.

9. The slave is entirely unprotected in his domestic relations.

10. The laws greatly obstruct the manumission of slaves, even where the master is willing to
enfranchise them.

11. The operation of the laws tends to deprive slaves of religious instruction and consolation.

12. The whole power of the laws is exerted to keep slaves in a state of the lowest ignorance.

13. There is in this country a monstrous inequality of law and right. What is a trifling fault
in the white man, is considered highly criminal in the slave; the same offences which cost
a white man a few dollars only, are punished in the negro with death.

14. The laws operate most oppressively upon free people of color[A].

[Footnote A: See Mrs. Child's Appeal, Chap. II.]

Shall I ask you now my friends, to draw the parallel between Jewish servitude and American
slavery? No! For there is no likeness in the two systems; I ask you rather to mark the contrast.
The laws of Moses protected servants in their rights as men and women, guarded them from oppression
and defended them from wrong. The Code Noir of the South robs the slave of all his rights as
a man, reduces him to a chattel personal, and defends the master in the exercise of the most
unnatural and unwarrantable power over his slave. They each bear the impress of the hand which
formed them. The attributes of justice and mercy are shadowed out in the Hebrew code; those
of injustice and cruelty, in the Code Noir of America. Truly it was wise in the slaveholders
of the South to declare their slaves to be "chattels personal;" for before they could be robbed
of wages, wives, children, and friends, it was absolutely necessary to deny they were human
beings. It is wise in them, to keep them in abject ignorance, for the strong man armed must
be bound before we can spoil his house--the powerful intellect of man must be bound down with
the iron chains of nescience before we can rob him of his rights as a man; we must reduce him
to a thing before we can claim the right to set our feet upon his neck, because it was only
all things which were originally put under the feet of man by the Almighty and Beneficent Father
of all, who has declared himself to be no respecter of persons, whether red, white or black.

But some have even said that Jesus Christ did not condemn slavery. To this I reply that our
Holy Redeemer lived and preached among the Jews only. The laws which Moses had enacted fifteen
hundred years previous to his appearance among them, had never been annulled, and these laws
protected every servant in Palestine. If then He did not condemn Jewish servitude this does
not prove that he would not have condemned such a monstrous system as that of American slavery,
if that had existed among them. But did not Jesus condemn slavery? Let us examine some of his
precepts. "Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them." Let every
slaveholder apply these queries to his own heart; Am I willing to be a slave--Am I willing
to see my wife the slave of another--Am I willing to see my mother a slave, or my father, my
sister or my brother? If not, then in holding others as slaves, I am doing what I would not
wish to be done to me or any relative I have; and thus have I broken this golden rule which
was given me to walk by.

But some slaveholders have said, "we were never in bondage to any man," and therefore the yoke
of bondage would be insufferable to us, but slaves are accustomed to it, their backs are fitted
to the burden. Well, I am willing to admit that you who have lived in freedom would find slavery
even more oppressive than the poor slave does, but then you may try this question in another
form--Am I willing to reduce my little child to slavery? You know that if it is brought up
a slave it will never know any contrast, between freedom and bondage, its back will become
fitted to the burden just as the negro child's does--not by nature--but by daily, violent pressure,
in the same way that the head of the Indian child becomes flattened by the boards in which
it is bound. It has been justly remarked that "God never made a slave," he made man upright;
his back was not made to carry burdens, nor his neck to wear a yoke, and the man must be crushed
within him, before his back can be fitted to the burden of perpetual slavery; and that his
back is not fitted to it, is manifest by the insurrections that so often disturb the peace
and security of slaveholding countries. Who ever heard of a rebellion of the beasts of the
field; and why not? simply because they were all placed under the feet of man, into whose hand
they were delivered; it was originally designed that they should serve him, therefore their
necks have been formed for the yoke, and their backs for the burden; but not so with man, intellectual,
immortal man! I appeal to you, my friends, as mothers; Are you willing to enslave your children?
You start back with horror and indignation at such a question. But why, if slavery is no wrong
to those upon whom it is imposed? why, if as has often been said, slaves are happier than their
masters, free from the cares and perplexities of providing for themselves and their wanting?
Try yourselves by another of the Divine precepts, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." An
experienced teacher of cooking, a woman who has made very valuable contributions to the art
of cookery by showing that most of the numerous processes outlined and elaborately described
in the cook books can be classified under a very few heads, says that she tries "to reduce
the cooking of meat to its lowest terms and teach only three ways of cooking. The first is
the application of intense heat to keep in the juices.

This is suitable only for portions of clear meat where the fibers are tender. By the second
method the meats are put in cold water and cooked at a low temperature. This is suitable for
bone, gristle, and the toughest portions of the meat which for this purpose should be divided into
small bits. The third is a combination of these two processes and consists of searing and then
stewing the meat. This is suitable for halfway cuts, i. e., those that are neither tender
nor very tough." The many varieties of meat dishes are usually only
a matter of flavor and garnish.

In
other words, of the three processes the first is the short method; it aims to keep all the
juices within the meat. The second is a very long method employed for the purpose of getting
all or most of the juices out. The third is a combination of the two not so long as the second and yet
requiring so much time that there is danger of the meat being rendered tasteless unless certain
precautions are taken, such as searing in hot fat or plunging into
boiling water.

There is a wide difference between exterior and interior cuts of meat with respect to tenderness
induced by cooking. When beef flank is cooked by boiling for two hours, the toughness of the
fibers greatly increases during the first half hour of the cooking period, and then diminishes
so that at the end of the cooking period the meat is found to be in about the same condition
with respect to toughness or tenderness of the fibers as at the beginning. On the other hand, in
case of the tenderloin, there is a decrease in toughness of the fibers throughout the cooking
period which is particularly marked in the first few minutes of cooking, and at the end of
the cooking period the meat fibers are only half as tough as before
cooking.

A good idea of the changes which take place while meat is being cooked can be obtained by examining
a piece of flesh which has been "cooked to pieces," as the saying goes. In this the muscular fibers
may be seen completely separated one from another, showing that the connective tissue has been
destroyed. It is also evident that the fibers themselves are of different texture from those
in the raw meat. In preparing meat for the table it is usual to stop short of the point of disintegration,
but while the long process of cooking is going on the connective tissue is gradually softening
and the fibers are gradually changing in texture. The former is the thing to be especially
desired, but the latter is not. For this reason it is necessary to keep the temperature below
the boiling point and as low as is consistent with thorough cooking, for cooks seem agreed, as
the result of experience shows, that slow gentle cooking results
in better texture than is the case when meat is boiled rapidly.

This is the philosophy that lies back of the simmering process.

Losses of elements vary considerably with the method of cooking employed, being of course greatest
where small pieces of meat are subjected to prolonged cooking. The chief loss in weight when
meat is cooked is due to the driving off of water. When beef is cooked by pan broiling-- that
is, searing in a hot, greased pan, a common cooking process-- no great loss of nutrition results,
particularly if the fat and other substances adhering to the pan are utilized in the preparation
of gravy. When beef is cooked by boiling, there is a loss of 3 to 20 per cent. of material present,
though this is not an actual loss if the broth is utilized for soup or in some similar way. Even
in the case of meat which is used for the preparation of beef tea or broth, the losses of nutritive
material are apparently small though much of the flavoring matter has been removed. The amount
of fat found in broth varies directly with the amount originally present in the meat; the fatter
the meat the greater the quantity of fat in the broth. The loss of water in cooking varies inversely
with the fatness of the meat; that is, the fatter the meat the smaller the shrinkage due to
loss of water. In cooked meat the loss of various constituents is inversely proportional to the
size of the cut. In other words, the smaller the piece of meat the greater the percentage of
loss. Loss also appears to be dependent somewhat upon the length of time the cooking is continued.
When pieces of meat weighing 1-1/ 2 to 5 pounds are cooked in water somewhat under the boiling point
there appears to be little difference in the amount of material found in broth whether the meat
is placed in cold water or hot water at the beginning of the cooking period. When meat is roasted
in the oven the amount of material removed is somewhat affected by the character of the roasting
pan and similar factors, thus the total loss in weight is naturally greater in an open than
in a closed pan as the open pan offers more opportunity for the evaporation of water. Judging
from the average results of a considerable number of tests, it appears that a roast weighing
6 pounds raw should weigh 5 pounds after cooking, or in other words the loss is about one-sixth
of the original weight. This means that if the raw meat costs 20 cents per pound the cooked
would represent an increase of 4 cents a pound on the original cost; but this increase would,
of course, be lessened if all the drippings and gravy are utilized.

ECONOMIES IN USE OF MEAT The expense for meat in the home may be
reduced in several ways, and each housekeeper can best judge which
to use in her own case.

From a careful consideration of the subject it appears that the various suggestions which have been
made on the subject may be grouped under the following general heads: Economy in selection and
purchase so as to take advantage of varying market conditions; purchasing
meat in wholesale quantities for home use; serving smaller portions
of meat than usual or using meat less frequently; careful attention to
the use of meat, bone, fat, and small portions commonly trimmed off
and thrown away and the utilization of left-over portions of cooked
meat; and the use of the less expensive kinds. The choice of cuts should
correspond to the needs of the family and the preferences of its members.
Careful consideration of market conditions is also useful, not only
to make sure that the meat is handled and marketed in a sanitary way,
but also to take advantage of any favorable change in price which
may be due, for instance, to a large local supply of some particular
kind or cut of meat.

In towns where there is opportunity for choice, it may sometimes be found more satisfactory not to
give all the family trade to one butcher; by going to various markets before buying the housekeeper
is in a better position to hear of variations in prices and so be in a position to get the best values.
Ordering by telephone or from the butcher's boy at the door may be less economical than going
to market in person as the range of choice and prices is of course more obvious when the purchaser sees
the goods and has a chance to observe market conditions. Each housekeeper must decide for
herself whether or not the greater convenience compensates for the
smaller range of choice which such ordering from description entails.

No matter what the cut, whether expensive or cheap, it can not be utilized to the best advantage
unless it is well cooked. A cheap cut of meat, well cooked, is always preferable to a dear one spoiled
in the preparation. There is sometimes an advantage in using canned meat and meat products,
and, if they are of good quality, such products are wholesome and palatable. That economy is furthered
by careful serving at table is obvious. If more meat is given at each serving than the person wishes
or habitually eats the table waste is unduly increased. Economy in all such points is important
and not beneath the dignity of the family.

In many American families meat is eaten two or three times a day; in such cases the simplest way
of reducing the meat bill would very likely be to cut down the amount
used, either by serving it less often or by using less at a time.

Deficiency of protein need not be feared when one good meat dish
a day is served, especially if such nitrogenous materials as eggs,
milk, cheese, and beans are used instead.

In localities where fish can be obtained fresh and cheap, it might well be more frequently substituted
for meat for the sake of variety as well as economy. Ingenious cooks have many ways of "extending
the flavor" of meat, that is, of combining a small quantity with
other materials to make a large dish, as in meat pies, stews, and
similar dishes.

By buying in large quantities under certain conditions it may be possible to procure meat at better
prices than those which ordinarily prevail in the retail market. The whole side or quarter of
an animal can frequently be obtained at noticeably less cost per pound than when it is bought
by cut, and can be used to advantage when the housekeeper understands the art and has proper storage
facilities and a good-sized family. When a hind quarter of mutton, for example, comes from
the market the flank (on which the meat is thin and, as good housekeepers
believe, likely to spoil more easily than some other cuts) should
be cooked immediately, or, if preferred, it may be covered with a
thin layer of fat (rendered suet) which can be easily removed when
the time for cooking comes.

The flank, together with the rib bone, ordinarily makes a gallon of good Scotch broth. The remainder
of the hind quarter may be used for roast or chops.

The
whole pig carcass has always been used by families living on the farms where the animals are slaughtered,
and in village homes; town housekeepers not infrequently buy pigs whole and "put down" the
meat. An animal six months old and weighing about one hundred pounds would be suitable for this
purpose. The hams and thin pieces of belly meat may be pickled and smoked. The thick pieces of belly
meat, packed in a two-gallon jar and covered with salt or brine, will make a supply of fat
pork to cook with beans and other vegetables. The tenderloin makes good roasts, the head and
feet may go into head cheese or scrapple, and the trimmings and other scraps of lean meat
serve for a few pounds of home-made sausage. In some large families it is found profitable to "corn"
a fore quarter of beef for spring and summer use. Formerly it was a common farm practice to
dry beef, but now it seems to be more usual to purchase beef which has been dried in large establishments.
The general use of refrigerators and ice chests in homes at the present
time has had a great influence on the length of time meat may be kept
and so upon the amount a housewife may buy at a time with advantage.

In the percentage of fat present in different kinds and cuts of meat, a greater difference
exists than in the percentage of proteids. The lowest percentage of fat is 8.1 per cent. in
the shank of beef; the highest is 32 per cent. in pork chops. The highest priced cuts, loin and ribs
of beef, contain 20 to 25 per cent. If the fat of the meat is not eaten at the table, and is
not utilized otherwise, a pecuniary loss results. If butter is the fat used in making crusts
for meat pies, and in preparing the cheaper cuts, there is little economy involved; the fats
from other meat should therefore be saved, as they may be used in place of butter in such cases, as
well as in preparing many other foods. The fat from sausage or from the soup kettle, or from
a pot roast, which is savory because it has been cooked with vegetables, is particularly acceptable.
Sometimes savory vegetables, onion, or sweet herbs are added to fat when it is tried out to give
it flavor.

Almost any meat bones can be used in soup making, and if the meat is not all removed from them the
soup is better. But some bones, especially the rib bones, if they have a little meat left on them,
can be grilled or roasted into very palatable dishes.

The "sparerib" of southern cooks is made of the rib bones from a roast of pork, and makes a favorite
dish when well browned. The braised ribs of beef often served in high-class restaurants are made
from the bones cut from rib roasts. In this connection it may be noted that many of the dishes
popular in good hotels are made of portions of meat such as are frequently thrown away in private
houses, but which with proper cooking and seasoning make attractive dishes and give most acceptable
variety to the menu. An old recipe for "broiled bones" directs that the bone (beef ribs or sirloin bones
on which the meat is not left too thick in any part) be sprinkled with salt and pepper (Cayenne),
and broiled over a clear fire until browned.

Another example of the use of bones is boiled marrow bone. The bones are cut in convenient lengths,
the ends covered with a little piece of dough over which a floured cloth is tied, and cooked
in boiling water for two hours. After removing the cloth and dough, the bones are placed upright
on toast and served. Prepared as above, the bones may also be baked in a deep dish. Marrow is sometimes
removed from bones after cooking, seasoned, and served on toast. Trimmings from meat may be
utilized in various "made dishes," or they can always be put to good use in the soup kettle.
It is surprising how many economies may be practiced in such ways and also in the table use
of left-over portions of cooked meat if attention is given to the matter. Many of the following recipes
involve the use of such left-overs. Others will suggest themselves or may be found in all the
usual cookery books. RECIPES (In these directions a level spoonful or level cupful is called
for.) TRYING OUT FAT A double boiler is the best utensil to use in trying out small portions
of fat.

  There is no danger of burning the
    fat, and the odor is much less noticeable
  than if it is heated in a dish set
    directly over the fire.

Common household methods of extending the meat flavor through a considerable quantity of material
which would otherwise be lacking in distinctive taste are to serve the meat with dumplings,
generally in the dish with it, to combine the meat with crusts, as
in meat pies or meat rolls, or to serve the meat on toast and biscuits.

Borders of rice, hominy, or mashed potatoes are examples of the same principles applied in
different ways. By serving some preparation of flour, rice, hominy, or other food rich in
starch with the meat we get a dish which in itself approaches nearer to the balanced ration
than meat alone and one in which the meat flavor is extended through a large amount of the material.
MEAT STEW 5 pounds of a cheaper cut of beef.

4 cups of potatoes cut into small pieces.

2/ 3 cup each of turnips and carrots cut into 1/ 2-inch cubes.

1/ 2 onion, chopped.

1/ 4 cup of flour. Salt and pepper. Cut the meat into small pieces, removing the fat; try out the
fat and brown the meat in it. When well browned, cover with boiling water, boil for five minutes
and then cook in a lower temperature until the meat is done.

If tender, this will require about three hours on the stove or five hours in the fireless cooker.
Add carrots, turnips, onions, pepper, and salt during the last hour of cooking, and the potatoes fifteen
minutes before serving. Thicken with the flour diluted with cold water. Serve with dumplings (see
below). If this dish is made in the fireless cooker, the mixture must be reheated when the
vegetables are put in. Such a stew may also be made of mutton. If veal or pork is used the vegetables
may be omitted or simply a little onion used. Sometimes for variety the browning of the meat
is dispensed with. When white meat, such as chicken, veal, or fresh pork is used, the gravy is often
made rich with cream or milk thickened with flour.

The numerous minor additions which may be introduced give the great
variety of such stews found in cookbooks.

MEAT DUMPLINGS 2 cups flour. 4 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 2/ 3 cup milk or a little more if needed.
1/ 2 teaspoonful salt. 2 teaspoonfuls butter. Mix and sift the dry
ingredients.

Work in the butter with the tips of fingers, add milk gradually, roll out to a thickness of one-half
inch, and cut with biscuit cutter. In some countries it is customary to season the dumplings themselves
with herbs, etc., or to stuff them with bread crumbs fried in butter,
instead of depending upon the gravy to season them.

A good way to cook dumplings is to put them in a buttered steamer over a kettle of hot water. They
should cook from twelve to fifteen minutes. If it is necessary to cook them with the stew, enough
liquid should be removed so that they may be placed upon the meat and vegetables. Sometimes the dough
is baked and served as biscuits over which the stew is poured. If the stew is made with chicken
or veal it is generally termed a fricassee. MEAT PIES AND SIMILAR DISHES Meat pies represent another
method of combining flour with meat. They are ordinarily baked in a fairly deep dish the sides
of which may or may not be lined with dough. The cooked meat, cut into small pieces, is put into
the dish, sometimes with small pieces of vegetables, a gravy is poured over the meat, the dish is
covered with a layer of dough, and then baked.

Most commonly the dough is like that used for soda or cream-of-tartar
biscuit, but sometimes shortened pastry dough, such as is made for
pies, is used.

This is especially the case in the fancy individual dishes usually called patties. Occasionally the
pie is covered with a potato crust in which case the meat is put
directly into the dish without lining the latter.

Stewed beef, veal, and chicken are probably most frequently used in pies, but any kind of meat may
be used, or several kinds in combination. Pork pies are favorite dishes in many rural regions,
especially at hog-killing time, and when well made are excellent. If pies are made from raw meat
and vegetables longer cooking is needed than otherwise, and in such
cases it is well to cover the dish with a plate, cook until the pie
is nearly done, then remove the plate, add the crust, and return to
the oven until the crust is lightly browned.

Many cooks insist on piercing holes in the top crust of a meat pie directly it is taken from the oven.
MEAT AND TOMATO PIE This dish presents an excellent way of using
up small quantities of either cold beef or cold mutton.

If fresh tomatoes are used, peel and slice them; if canned, drain off the liquid. Place a layer of
tomato in a baking dish, then a layer of sliced meat, and over the
two dredge flour, pepper, and salt; repeat until the dish is nearly
full, then put in an extra layer of tomato and cover the whole with
a layer of pastry or of bread or cracker crumbs.

When the quantity of meat is small, it may be "helped out" by boiled potatoes or other suitable vegetables.
A few oysters or mushrooms improve the flavor, especially when beef
is used.

The pie will need to be baked from half an hour to an hour, according
to its size and the heat of the oven.

MEAT WITH STARCHY MATERIALS Macaroni cooked with chopped ham, hash made of meat and potatoes or
meat and rice, meat croquettes-- made of meat and some starchy materials like bread crumbs,
cracker dust, or rice-- are other familiar examples of meat combined with starchy materials.
Pilaf, a dish very common in the Orient and well known in the United States, is of this character
and easily made. When there is soup or soup stock on hand it can be well used in the pilaf. TURKISH
PILAF 1/ 2 cup of rice. 3/ 4 cup of tomatoes stewed and strained. 1 cup stock or broth. 3 tablespoonfuls
of butter. Cook the rice and tomatoes with the stock in a double boiler until the rice is tender,
removing the cover after the rice is cooked if there is too much liquid. Add the butter and stir
it in with a fork to prevent the rice from being broken. A little catsup or Chili sauce with water enough to
make three-quarters of a cup may be substituted for the tomatoes.
This may be served as a border with meat, or served separately in
the place of a vegetable, or may make the main dish at a meal, as
it is savory and reasonably nutritious.

STEW FROM COLD ROAST
This dish provides a good way of using up the remnants of a roast, either
of beef or mutton, The meat should be freed from fat, gristle, and
bones, cut into small pieces, slightly salted, and put into a kettle
with water enough to nearly cover it. It should simmer until almost ready
to break in pieces, when onions and raw potatoes, peeled and quartered,
should be added.

A little soup stock may also be added if available. Why
were the martyrs stretched upon the rack, gibbetted and burnt, the scorn and diversion of a
Nero, whilst their tarred and burning bodies sent up a light which illuminated the Roman capital?
Why were the Waldenses hunted like wild beasts upon the mountains of Piedmont, and slain with
the sword of the Duke of Savoy and the proud monarch of France? Why were the Presbyterians
chased like the partridge over the highlands of Scotland--the Methodists pumped, and stoned,
and pelted with rotten eggs--the Quakers incarcerated in filthy prisons, beaten, whipped at
the cart's tail, banished and hung? Because they dared to speak the truth, to break the unrighteous
laws of their country, and chose rather to suffer affliction with the people of God, "not accepting
deliverance," even under the gallows. Why were Luther and Calvin persecuted and excommunicated,
Cranmer, Ridley, and Latimer burnt? Because they fearlessly proclaimed the truth, though that
truth was contrary to public opinion, and the authority of Ecclesiastical councils and conventions.
Now all this vast amount of human suffering might have been saved. All these Prophets and Apostles,
Martyrs, and Reformers, might have lived and died in peace with all men, but following the
example of their great pattern, "they despised the shame, endured the cross, and are now set
down on the right hand of the throne of God," having received the glorious welcome of "well
done good and faithful servants, enter ye into the joy of your Lord."

But you may say we are women, how can our hearts endure persecution? And why not? Have not
women arisen in all the dignity and strength of moral courage to be the leaders of the people,
and to bear a faithful testimony for the truth whenever the providence of God has called them
to do so? Are there no women in that noble army of martyrs who are now singing the song of
Moses and the Lamb? Who led out the women of Israel from the house of bondage, striking the
timbrel, and singing the song of deliverance on the banks of that sea whose waters stood up
like walls of crystal to open a passage for their escape? It was a woman; Miriam, the prophetess,
the sister of Moses and Aaron. Who went up with Barak to Kadesh to fight against Jabin, King
of Canaan, into whose hand Israel had been sold because of their iniquities? It was a woman!
Deborah the wife of Lapidoth, the judge, as well as the prophetess of that backsliding people;
Judges iv, 9. Into whose hands was Sisera, the captain of Jabin's host delivered? Into the
hand of a woman. Jael the wife of Heber! Judges vi, 21. Who dared to speak the truth concerning
those judgments which were coming upon Judea, when Josiah, alarmed at finding that his people
"had not kept the word of the Lord to do after all that was written in the book of the Law,"
sent to enquire of the Lord concerning these things? It was a woman. Huldah the prophetess,
the wife of Shallum; 2, Chron. xxxiv, 22. Who was chosen to deliver the whole Jewish nation
from that murderous decree of Persia's King, which wicked Haman had obtained by calumny and
fraud? It was a woman; Esther the Queen; yes, weak and trembling woman was the instrument appointed
by God, to reverse the bloody mandate of the eastern monarch, and save the whole visible church
from destruction. What human voice first proclaimed to Mary that she should be the mother of
our Lord? It was a woman! Elizabeth, the wife of Zacharias; Luke i, 42, 43. Who united with
the good old Simeon in giving thanks publicly in the temple, when the child, Jesus, was presented
there by his parents, "and spake of him to all them that looked for redemption in Jerusalem?"
It was a woman! Anna the prophetess. Who first proclaimed Christ as the true Messiah in the
streets of Samaria, once the capital of the ten tribes? It was a woman! Who ministered to the
Son of God whilst on earth, a despised and persecuted Reformer, in the humble garb of a carpenter? God
grant that the results may sanction your confidence in your own judgment,-- your distrust of mine.
I promised you once that I would pray for you, and I wish to assure you, that, while I live,
I shall never lay my head upon my pillow without having first committed you to the mercy and
loving care of that Guardian who never'slumbers, nor sleeps.'May God bless and guide you, my
dear young friend, and if not again in this world, grant that we may meet in the Everlasting City
of Peace. Little sister, be sure to meet me in the Kingdom of Rest, where dear Janet waits for
us both.

"His calm eyes filled with tears, and his voice grew tremulous, as he took Salome's cold, passive
hand, and kissed it."

Good-by, Dr. Grey; if I find my way to heaven, it will be because you are there. When I am gone,
let my name and memory be like that of the dead.

"She stood erect, with her fingers lying in his palm, and the ring of her voice was like the
clashing of steel against steel.

He bent down, and, for the first time, pressed his lips to her forehead; then turned quickly
and walked away. When he reached the head of the stairs, he looked back and saw her standing
in the door, with the candle-light flaring over her face; and in after years, he could never
recall, without a keen pang, that vision of a girlish form draped in mourning, and of fair, rigid
features, which hope and happiness could never again soften and brighten.

Her splendid eyes followed him, as if the sole light of her life were passing away forever; and,
with a heavy sigh, he hurried down the steps, realizing all the mournful burden of that Portuguese
sonnet,--"

Go from me.

CHAPTER XXVI.

"I hope nothing has gone wrong, Robert? You look unusually forlorn
and doleful."

Dr. Grey stepped out of his buggy, and accosted the gardener, who was leaning idly on the gate,
holding a trowel in his hand, and lazily puffing the smoke from his
pipe.

"I thank you, sir; with us the world wags on pretty much the same,
but when a man has been planting violets on his mother's grave he
does not feel like whistling and making merry.

Besides, to tell the truth,-- which I do not like to shirk,-- I am getting very tired of this
dismal, unlucky place. If I had known as much before I bought it as I do now, all the locomotives
in America could not have dragged me here. I was a stranger, and of course nobody thought
it their special duty to warn me; so I was bitten badly enough by the agent who sold me this den
of misfortune. Now, when it is too late, there is no lack of busy tongues to tell me the place
is haunted, and has been for, lo! these many years."

"Nonsense,
Robert! I gave you credit for too much good sense to listen to the
gossip of silly old wives. Put all these ridiculous tales of ghosts
and hobgoblins out of your mind, man, and do not make me laugh at
you, as if you were a child who had been so frightened by stories
of'raw-head and bloody-bones,'that you were afraid to blow out your candle
and creep into bed."

"I am neither a fool nor a coward, and
I will fight anything that I can feel has bone and muscle; but I am
satisfied that if all the water in Siloam were poured over this place,
it would not wash out the curse that people tell me has always rested
on it since the time the pirates first located here. I can't admit
I believe in witches, but undoubtedly I do believe in Satan, who seems
to have a fee-simple to the place. It is not enough that my poor mother
is buried yonder, but my wheat and oats took the rust; the mildew
spoiled my grape crop; the rains ruined my melons; the worms ate up
every blade of my grass; the cows have got the black-tongue; the gale
blew down my pigeon-house and mashed all my squabs; and my splendid
carnations and fuchsias are devoured by red spider. Suffice it to say, that the Church, after having been driven from Judea to Rome,
and from Rome to Piedmont, and from Piedmont to England, and from England to Holland, at last
stretched her fainting wings over the dark bosom of the Atlantic, and found on the shores of
a great wilderness, a refuge from tyranny and oppression--as she thought, but even here, (the
warm blush of shame mantles my cheek as I write it,) even here, woman was beaten and banished,
imprisoned, and hung upon the gallows, a trophy to the Cross. And what, I would ask in conclusion,
have women done for the great and glorious cause of Emancipation? Who wrote that pamphlet which
moved the heart of Wilberforce to pray over the wrongs, and his tongue to plead the cause of
the oppressed African? It was a woman, Elizabeth Heyrick. Who labored assiduously to keep the
sufferings of the slave continually before the British public? They were women. And how did
they do it? By their needles, paint brushes and pens, by speaking the truth, and petitioning
Parliament for the abolition of slavery. And what was the effect of their labors? Read it in
the Emancipation bill of Great Britain. Read it, in the present state of her West India Colonies.
Read it, in the impulse which has been given to the cause of freedom, in the United States
of America. It will then serve the purpose of a sofa as well as a bed. If it is a box couch,
further economy will be gained by its use as a place to store the bedclothes. But the simplest
of all arrangements is a divan bed, formed of springs and mattress alone, and supported on legs
nailed to the corners of the spring-frame. Over it a cover should be thrown during the day,
and the pillows in use, if there is not room for them elsewhere, should be slipped into covers
harmonious in color with the couch drapery. Such a reclining and sleeping couch may also be
used in bedrooms, although an iron or brass bedstead gives an appearance of neatness and personal
privacy that is desirable in such chambers.

Where there is lack of closet space and lockers, trunks can be utilized in a flat for storing
things. Steamer trunks that can be placed beneath the beds and couches are therefore the best
kind to buy. They can also be readily converted into window seats by making pads of cotton batting
to fit the tops, and placing over them covers and pillow cushions harmonious with the decoration
of the room. Long flat "wardrobe trunks" are sold, which contain at one end rods for hanging
clothes, so that, when stood up on the other end against the wall they serve as wardrobes. They
always look, however, like makeshifts, and so are more useful in
travelling than in the home.

Rugs
are more desirable than carpets in a city apartment, since they can be more readily cleaned, and,
in case of moving to another flat or a house in the suburbs, will be more adaptable to the
new situation.

Bookcases in a temporary home should be of the unit system, where each shelf is a separate box
enabling the books to be moved without repacking, and permitting rearrangement to suit the
new situation, or the acquisition of new books. Where, however, the lower part of wall space
is desired to give room for articles of furniture such as couches, shelves can be built, beginning
at four and one-half or five feet above the floor. Mr. Edwin Markham, the poet, whose home overflows
with books, has greatly economized space by building for them a broad lower shelf, about eighteen inches
wide, and, three inches above this, another shelf twelve inches wide, and, three inches above this,
a third six inches wide. When these are filled with books the titles of all are exposed, and,
by taking out the volume or two immediately in front, a volume on one of the back shelves
is readily obtained. Thus, by walking about his room, Mr. Markham can look with level eyes for
the book he wants, and procure it without recourse to a chair or stepladder. This plan of banking
books also lends itself to a decorative arrangement of them.

Except in matters such as these, where economy is imperative, the
furnishing of a city apartment does not differ essentially from that
of a house, and the reader is therefore referred to the discussion
of this in the following pages.

The suburban, village, or country
home differs from the city apartment, or even city house, in that
it has been built without the primary consideration of space. It is
separated from other houses, even though by the narrowest space of
green lawn, that gives a house the individuality and independence
without which it is hard for it to gather the associations of home. Abolitionists
believe, too, that this must inevitably be the case if you do not repent, and they are not
willing to leave you to perish without entreating you, to save yourselves from destruction;
well may they say with the apostle, "am I then your enemy because I tell you the truth," and
warn you to flee from impending judgments.

But why, my dear friends, have I thus been endeavoring to lead you through the history of more
than three thousand years, and to point you to that great cloud of witnesses who have gone
before, "from works to rewards?" Have I been seeking to magnify the sufferings, and exalt the
character of woman, that she "might have praise of men?" No! no! my object has been to arouse
you, as the wives and mothers, the daughters and sisters, of the South, to a sense of your
duty as women, and as Christian women, on that great subject, which has already shaken our
country, from the St. Lawrence and the lakes, to the Gulf of Mexico, and from the Mississippi
to the shores of the Atlantic; and will continue mightily to shake it, until the polluted temple
of slavery fall and crumble into ruin. I would say unto each one of you, "what meanest thou,
O sleeper! arise and call upon thy God, if so be that God will think upon us that we perish
not." Perceive you not that dark cloud of vengeance which hangs over our boasting Republic?
Saw you not the lightnings of Heaven's wrath, in the flame which leaped from the Indian's torch
to the roof of yonder dwelling, and lighted with its horrid glare the darkness of midnight?
Heard you not the thunders of Divine anger, as the distant roar of the cannon came rolling
onward, from the Texian country, where Protestant American Rebels are fighting with Mexican
Republicans--for what? The linen to be glazed receives as much strong starch as it is possible
to charge it with, then it is dried. To each pound of starch a piece of sperm or white wax, about
the size of a walnut, is usually added. When ready to be ironed, the linen is laid upon the
table and moistened very lightly on the surface with a clean wet cloth. It is then ironed in the
usual way with a flatiron, and is ready for the glossing operation. For this purpose a peculiar
heavy flatiron, rounded at the bottom, as bright as a mirror, is used. It is pressed firmly upon
the linen and rubbed with much force, and this frictional action puts on the gloss. "Elbow grease"
is the principal secret connected with the art of glossing linen.

MACKINTOSH-- TO REPAIR Shred finely some pure india-rubber, and dissolve
it in naphtha to the consistency of a stiff paste.

  
  Apply the cement to each side of the part to be joined, and leave
a cold iron upon it until dry.

LINEN-- TO REMOVE IRON MOULD FROM Oxalic acid and hot water will
remove iron-mould; so also will common sorrel, bruised in a mortar
and rubbed on the spots.

In both cases the linen should be well washed after the remedy has
been applied, either in clear water or a strong solution of cream
of tartar and water.

Repeat if necessary, and dry in the sun. MAHOGANY-- TO TAKE OUT MARKS FROM The whitest stain, left
on a mahogany table by a jug of boiling water, or a very hot dish, may be removed by rubbing
in oil, and afterward pouring a little spirits of wine on the spot and rubbing with a soft cloth.
MARBLE-- TO CLEAN Wash with soda, water, and beef-gall.

Or mix together one part blue-stone, three parts whiting, one part
soda, and three parts soft soap; boil together ten minutes; stir
constantly.

Spread this over the marble; let it lie half an hour; wash it off with soap-suds; wipe dry with
flannel. Repeat if necessary. Stains that cannot be removed in any other way may be tried with
oxalic acid water; but this should be used carefully, and not allowed
to remain long at a time.

MATTING-- TO WASH Use salt in the water, and wipe dry.

MILDEW-- TO REMOVE When the clothes are washed and ready to boil, pin jimson weed leaves upon the place.
Put a handful of the leaves on the bottom of the kettle; lay the stained part next to them. Green
tomatoes and salt, sour buttermilk, lemon juice, soap and chalk, are all good; expose to the
sun. Another way: Two ounces of chloride of lime; pour on it a quarter of boiling water; add
three quarts of cold water. Steep the cloth in it twelve hours.

MIRRORS-- TO CLEAN Remove, with a damp sponge, fly stains and other
soils (the sponge may be clamped with water or spirits of wine).

After this dust the surface with the finest sifted whiting or powder-blue,
and polish it with a silk handkerchief or soft cloth.

Snuff of candle, if quite free from grease, is an excellent polish
for the looking-glass.

MOTHS-- TO PREVENT THEM GETTING INTO CARPETS, ETC. Strew camphor under a carpet; pack with
woolen goods. If moths are in a carpet, lay over it a cotton or linen cloth, and iron with a hot iron.
Oil all cracks in storerooms, closets, safes, with turpentine, or
a mixture of alcohol and corrosive sublimate; this drives off vermin.

OIL-CLOTH OR LINOLEUM-- TO WASH Take equal parts of skimmed milk and water; wipe dry; never use
soap. Varnish oil-cloths once a year.

After being varnished, they should be perfectly dry before being
used.

PAINT-- TO CLEAN Dirty paint should never be wiped with a cloth, but the dust should be loosened
with a pair of bellows, and then removed with a dusting-brush. If
very dirty, wash the paint lightly with a sponge or soft flannel dipped
in weak soda-and-water, or in pearl-ash and water.

The sponge or flannel must be used nearly dry, and the portion of
paint gone over must immediately be rinsed with a flannel and clean
water; both soda and pearl-ash, if suffered to remain on, will injure
the paint.

The operation of washing should, therefore, be done as quickly as
possible, and two persons should be employed; one to follow and dry
the paint with soft rags, as soon as the other has scoured off the
dirt and washed away the soda.

No scrubbing-brush should ever be used on paint. PAINT-- TO DISPERSE THE SMELL OF Place some
sulphuric acid in a basin of water and let it stand in the room where the paint is. Change the
water daily. PAINT-- TO REMOVE FROM CLOTHING Rub immediately with
a rough rag wetted with turpentine.

OIL PAINTINGS--
TO CLEAN Rub a freshly cut slice of potato damped in cold water over
the picture.

Wipe off the lather with a soft, damp sponge, and then finish with luke-warm water, and dry,
and polish with a piece of soft silk that has been washed.

PAPER HANGING-- TO MAKE PASTE FOR Mix flour and water to the consistency
of cream, and boil.

A few cloves added in the boiling will prevent the paste going sour. PEARS-- TO KEEP FOR WINTER USE Lay
the pears on a shelf in a dry, cool place. Set them stems up and so far apart that they do not
touch one another. Allow the air to move freely in the room in which they lie. Layers of paper or of
straw make a soft bed, but the less the pear touches the shelf or resting-place the better for
its keeping. PICTURE FRAMES-- TO KEEP FLIES FROM Brush them over with water in which onions
have been boiled. GILT PICTURE FRAMES-- TO BRIGHTEN Take sufficient
sulphur to give a golden tinge to about one and one-half pints of water,
and in this boil four or five bruised onions. Frames may also be brightened
in the following manner: Beat up the white of eggs with soda, in
the proportion of three ounces of eggs to one ounce of soda.

Blow off as much dust as possible from the frames, and paint them
over with a soft brush dipped in the mixture.

They will immediately come out fresh and bright.

RATS-- TO DESTROY Set traps and put a few drops of rhodium inside; they are fond of it. Cats are, however,
the most reliable rat-traps.

There is no difficulty in poisoning rats, but they often die in the
walls, and create a dreadful odor, hard to get rid of.

When poisoning is attempted, remove or cover all water vessels, even
the well or cistern.

RIBBONS-- TO WASH If there are grease spots, rub the yolk of an egg
upon them, on the wrong side; let it dry.

Lay it upon a clean cloth, and wash upon each side with a sponge; press on the wrong side. If
very much soiled, wash in bran-water; add to the water in which it is rinsed a little muriate of tin
to set red, oil of vitriol for green, blue, maroon, and bright yellow.

RUST-- TO REMOVE FROM POLISHED STEEL Rub the spots with soft animal
fat; lay the articles by; wrap in thick paper two days; clean off
the grease with flannel; rub the spots well with fine rotten-stone
and sweet oil; polish with powdered emery and soft leather, or with
magnesia or fine chalk.

RUST-- TO REMOVE FROM IRON UTENSILS Rub sweet oil upon them. Let it remain two days; cover with finely-powdered
lime; rub this off with leather in a few hours.

Repeat if necessary.

To prevent their rusting when not in use: Mix half a pound of lime with a quart of warm water; add sweet
oil until it looks like cream. Rub the article with this; when dry, wrap in paper or put over
another coat. See also IRONS. RUST AND INK STAINS-- TO REMOVE Put half an ounce of oxalic acid
in a pint of water.

Dip the stain in the water, and apply the acid as often as necessary.

Wash very soon, in half an hour at least, or the cloth will be injured
by the acid.

Preserve in bottle marked "Poison."

This also cleans brass beautifully. RUSTED SCREWS-- TO LOOSEN Boil scorched articles in milk and
turpentine, half a pound of soap, half a gallon of milk. Lay in the sun. RUSTED SCREWS-- TO LOOSEN
Pour a small quantity of paraffin round the top of the screw. When sufficient time has been allowed
for the oil to sink in, the screw can be easily removed. SEALING-WAX FOR BOTTLES, JARS, ETC. Three-fourths
rosin, one-fourth beeswax; melt.

Or use half a pound of rosin, the same quantity of red sealing-wax,
and a half an ounce of beeswax; melt, and as it froths up, stir it
with a tallow candle.

Use new corks; trim (after driving them in securely) even with the bottle, and dip the necks in this
cement. SHIRTS-- TO IRON Use for ironing shirts a bosom-board, made of seasoned wood a foot wide,
one and a half long, and an inch thick; cover it well by tacking over very tight two or three
folds of flannel, according to the thickness of the flannel.

Cover it lastly with Canton flannel; this must be drawn over very
tight, and tacked well to prevent folds when in use.

Make slips of fine white cotton cloth; put a clean one on every week. A shirt-board must be made
in the same way for ironing dresses; five feet long, tapering from two feet at one end to a foot
and a half at the other, the large end should be round. A clean slip should be upon it whenever
used. A similar but smaller board should be kept for ironing gentlemen's
summer pants.

Keep fluting and crimping irons, a small iron for ruffles, and a
polishing-iron.

RUSSET SHOES-- TO POLISH Remove stains with lemon juice, and polish with beeswax dissolved in
turpentine. SHOES-- TO PREVENT FROM CRACKING Saturate a piece of flannel in boiled linseed oil and rub it
well over the soles and round the edges of the shoes, then stand
them, soles upward, to dry.

SILK-- TO RENOVATE Sponge faded silks with warm water and soap; then
rub them with a dry cloth on a flat board; afterward iron them on
the inside with a smoothing-iron.

Old black silks may be improved by sponging with spirits. In this case, the ironing may be done
on the right side, thin paper being spread over to prevent glazing.

SILK AND SATIN-- TO CLEAN Pin the breadths on a soft blanket; then take some stale breadcrumbs,
and mix with them a little powder-blue. Rub this thoroughly and carefully over the whole surface
with the hand or a piece of clean linen; shake it off and wipe with
soft cloths.

Satin may be brushed the way of the nap with a clean, soft, hair-brush.

SILK-- TO TAKE STAINS FROM Mix two ounces of essence of lemon and one ounce of turpentine. Grease
and other spots in silks are to be rubbed gently with a linen rag dipped in this mixture.
SILKS-- TO WASH For a dress to be washed, the seams of a skirt do
not require to be ripped apart, though it must be removed from the
band at the waist, and the lining taken from the bottom.

Trimmings or drapings, where there are deep folds, the bottom of
which is very difficult to reach, should be undone, so as to remain
flat.

A black silk dress, without being previously washed, may be refreshed by being soaked during twenty-four
hours in soft, clear water, clearness in the water being indispensable.

If dirty the black dress may be previously washed.

When very old and rusty, a pint of alcohol should be mixed with each gallon of water. This addition
is an improvement under any circumstances, whether the silk be previously
washed or not.

After soaking, the dress should be hung up to drain dry without being
wrung.

The mode of washing silks is this: The article should be laid upon a clean, smooth table. A flannel just
wetted with lukewarm water should be well soaped, and the surface of the silk rubbed one way
with it, care being taken that this rubbing is quite even. When the dirt has disappeared, the
soap must be washed off with a sponge and plenty of cold water, of
which the sponge must be made to imbibe as much as possible.

As soon as one side is finished, the other must be washed precisely
in the same manner.

Let it be understood that not more of either surface must be done at a time than can be spread
perfectly flat upon the table, and the hand can conveniently reach; likewise the soap must be quite
sponged off one portion before the soaped flannel is applied to another portion. Silks, when
washed, should always be dried in the shade, on a linen horse, and alone. If black or dark blue, they
will be improved if they are placed on a table when dry, and well sponged with alcohol. SILVER--
TO POLISH Boil soft rags for five minutes (nothing is better for the purpose than the tops of
old cotton stockings) in a mixture of new milk and ammonia. SILVER-- TO CLEAN Wash in hot soap suds (use
the silver soap if convenient); then clean with a paste of whiting and water, or whiting and alcohol. Polish
with buckskin.

If silver was always washed in hot suds, rinsed well, and wiped dry,
it would seldom need anything else.

SILVER-- TO REMOVE
STAINS FROM Steep the silver in lye four hours; then cover thick
with whiting wet with vinegar; let this dry; rub with dry whiting;
and polish with dry wheat bran.

Egg-stains
may be removed from silver by rubbing with table salt.

SOAK CLOTHES FOR WASHING-- TO Take a gallon of
water, one pound of sal soda, and one pound of soap; boil one hour,
then add one tablespoonful of spirits of turpentine.

Put the clothes to soak over night; next morning soap them well with
the mixture.

Boil well
one hour; rinse in three waters; add a little bluing to the last water.
SOFT SOAP-- TO MAKE The ashes should be of hardwood (hickory is best), and
kept dry. When put in the hopper, mix a bushel of unslacked lime
with ten bushels of ashes; put in a layer of ashes; then one slight
sprinkling of lime; wet each layer with water (rain water is best).

A layer of straw should be put upon the bottom of the hopper before
the ashes are put in.

An opening
in the side or bottom for the lye to drip through, and a trough or
vessel under to receive the lye. When the lye is strong enough to bear
up an egg, so as to show the size of a dime above the surface, it is
ready for making soap; until it is, pour it back into the hopper,
and let it drip through again.

Add water to the ashes in such quantities as may be needed.

Have
the vessel very clean in which the soap is to be made. Rub the pot
over with corn meal after washing it, and if it is at all discolored,
rub it over with more until the vessel is perfectly clean.

Melt three pounds of clean grease; add to it a gallon of weak lye,
a piece of alum the size of a walnut.

Let this stew until well
mixed. If strong lye is put to the grease, at first it will not mix
well with the grease. In an hour add three gallons of strong hot lye;
boil briskly, and stir frequently; stir one way. After it has boiled
several hours, cool a spoonful upon a plate; if it does not jelly,
add a little water; if this causes it to jelly, then add water to the
kettle. Stir quickly while the water is poured in until it ropes on
the stick. As to the quantity of water required to make it jelly,
judgment must be used; the quantity will depend upon circumstances.
It will be well to take some in a bowl, and notice what proportion
of water is used to produce this effect. To harden it: Add a quart of
salt to this quantity of soap; let it boil quick ten minutes; let it
cool. Next day cut it out. This is now ready for washing purposes.
BROWN TAR SOAP-- TO MAKE Take eight gallons of soft soap, two quarts of
salt, and one pound of rosin, pulverized; mix, and boil half an hour.
Turn it in a tub to cool. SOAP-POTASH-- TO MAKE Six pounds of potash,
five pounds of grease, and a quarter of a pound of powdered rosin; mix
all well in a pot, and, when warm, pour on ten gallons of boiling water.
Boil until thick enough. SOAP FOR CLEANING SILVER, ETC.-- TO MAKE One bar
of turpentine soap, three table-spoonfuls of spirits of turpentine, half a
tumbler of water. Let it boil ten minutes. Add six tablespoonfuls
of ammonia. Make a suds of this, and wash silver with it. SPERMACETI--
TO REMOVE Scrape it off; put brown paper on the spot and press with hot
iron. ACID STAINS-- TO REMOVE Apply ammonia to neutralize the acid; after
which apply chloroform. This will remove paints from garments when
benzine has failed. STARCH-- TO PREPARE Wet two tablespoonfuls of
starch to a smooth paste with cold water; pour to it a pint of boiling
water; put it on the fire; let it boil, stirring frequently until
it looks transparent; this will probably require half an hour. In vain will
such men try to wash their hands, and say, with the Roman governor, "I am innocent of the blood
of this just person." Northern American statesmen are no more innocent of the crime of slavery,
than Pilate was of the murder of Jesus, or Saul of that of Stephen. These are high charges,
but I appeal to their hearts; I appeal to public opinion ten years from now. Slavery then is
a national sin.

But you will say, a great many other Northerners tell us so, who can have no political motives.
The interests of the North, you must know, my friends, are very closely combined with those
of the South. The Northern merchants and manufacturers are making their fortunes out of the
produce of slave labor; the grocer is selling your rice and sugar; how then can these men bear
a testimony against slavery without condemning themselves? But there is another reason, the
North is most dreadfully afraid of Amalgamation. She is alarmed at the very idea of a thing
so monstrous, as she thinks. And lest this consequence might flow from emancipation, she is
determined to resist all efforts at emancipation without expatriation. It is not because she
approves of slavery, or believes it to be "the corner stone of our republic," for she is as
much anti-slavery as we are; but amalgamation is too horrible to think of. Now I would ask
you, is it right, is it generous, to refuse the colored people in this country the advantages
of education and the privilege, or rather the right, to follow honest trades and callings merely
because they are colored? The same prejudice exists here against our colored brethren that
existed against the Gentiles in Judea. Great numbers cannot bear the idea of equality, and
fearing lest, if they had the same advantages we enjoy, they would become as intelligent, as
moral, as religious, and as respectable and wealthy, they are determined to keep them as low
as they possibly can. Is this doing as they would be done by? Is this loving their neighbor
as themselves? Oh! that such opposers of Abolitionism would put their souls in the stead of
the free colored man's and obey the apostolic injunction, to "remember them that are in bonds
as bound with them." I will leave you to judge whether the fear of amalgamation ought to induce
men to oppose anti-slavery efforts, when they believe slavery to be sinful. Prejudice against
color, is the most powerful enemy we have to fight with at the North.

You need not be surprised, then, at all, at what is said against Abolitionists by the North,
for they are wielding a two-edged sword, which even here, cuts through the cords of caste,
on the one side, and the bonds of interest on the other. They are only sharing the fate of
other reformers, abused and reviled whilst they are in the minority; but they are neither angry
nor discouraged by the invective which has been heaped upon them by slaveholders at the South
and their apologists at the North. They know that when George Fox and William Edmundson were
laboring in behalf of the negroes in the West Indies in 1671 that the very same slanders were
propogated against them, which are now circulated against Abolitionists. Although it was well
known that Fox was the founder of a religious sect which repudiated all war, and all violence,
yet even he was accused of "endeavoring to excite the slaves to insurrection and of teaching
the negroes to cut their master's throats." And these two men who had their feet shod with
the preparation of the Gospel of Peace, were actually compelled to draw up a formal declaration
that they were not trying to raise a rebellion in Barbadoes. It is also worthy of remark that
these Reformers did not at this time see the necessity of emancipation under seven years, and
their principal efforts were exerted to persuade the planters of the necessity of instructing
their slaves; but the slaveholder saw then, just what the slaveholder sees now, that an enlightened
population never can be a slave population, and therefore they passed a law that negroes should
not even attend the meetings of Friends. Abolitionists know that the life of Clarkson was sought
by slavetraders, and that even Wilberforce was denounced on the floor of Parliament as a fanatic
and a hypocrite by the present King of England, the very man who, in 1834 set his seal to that
instrument which burst the fetters of eight hundred thousand slaves in his West India colonies.
They know that the first Quaker who bore a faithful testimony against the sin of slavery was
cut off from religious fellowship with that society. That Quaker was a woman. On her deathbed
she sent for the committee who dealt with her--she told them, the near approach of death had
not altered her sentiments on the subject of slavery and waving her hand towards a very fertile
and beautiful portion of country which lay stretched before her window, she said with great
solemnity, "Friends, the time will come when there will not be friends enough in all this district
to hold one meeting for worship, and this garden will be turned into a wilderness."

The aged friend, who with tears in his eyes, related this interesting circumstance to me, remarked,
that at that time there were seven meetings of friends in that part of Virginia, but that when
he was there ten years ago, not a single meeting was held, and the country was literally a
desolation. Soon after her decease, John Woolman began his labors in our society, and instead
of disowning a member for testifying against slavery, they have for sixty-two years positively
forbidden their members to hold slaves.

Abolitionists understand the slaveholding spirit too well to be surprised at any thing that
has yet happened at the South or the North; they know that the greater the sin is, which is
exposed, the more violent will be the efforts to blacken the character and impugn the motives
of those who are engaged in bringing to light the hidden things of darkness. They understand
the work of Reform too well to be driven back by the furious waves of opposition, which are
only foaming out their own shame. They have stood "the world's dread laugh," when only twelve
men formed the first Anti-Slavery Society in Boston in 1831. They have faced and refuted the
calumnies of their enemies, and proved themselves to be emphatically peace men by never resisting
the violence of mobs, even when driven by them from the temple of God, and dragged by an infuriated
crowd through the streets of the emporium of New-England, or subjected by slaveholders to the
pain of corporal punishment. "None of these things move them;" and, by the grace of God, they
are determined to persevere in this work of faith and labor of love: they mean to pray, and
preach, and write, and print, until slavery is completely overthrown, until Babylon is taken
up and cast into the sea, to "be found no more at all." They mean to petition Congress year
after year, until the seat of our government is cleansed from the sinful traffic of "slaves
and the souls of men." Although that august assembly may be like the unjust judge who "feared
not God neither regarded man," yet it must yield just as he did, from the power of importunity.
Like the unjust judge, Congress must redress the wrongs of the widow, lest by the continual
coming up of petitions, it be wearied. This will be striking the dagger into the very heart
of the monster, and once this done, he must soon expire.

Abolitionists have been accused of abusing their Southern brethren. Did the prophet Isaiah
abuse the Jews when he addressed to them the cutting reproof contained in the first chapter
of his prophecies, and ended by telling them, they would be ashamed of the oaks they had desired,
and confounded for the garden they had chosen? Did John the Baptist abuse the Jews when he
called them "a generation of vipers," and warned them "to bring forth fruits meet for repentance!"
Did Peter abuse the Jews when he told them they were the murderers of the Lord of Glory? Did
Paul abuse the Roman Governor when he reasoned before him of righteousness, temperance, and
judgment, so as to send conviction home to his guilty heart, and cause him to tremble in view
of the crimes he was living in? Surely not. No man will now accuse the prophets and apostles
of abuse, but what have Abolitionists done more than they? No doubt the Jews thought the prophets
and apostles in their day, just as harsh and uncharitable as slaveholders now, think Abolitionists;
if they did not, why did they beat, and stone, and kill them?

Great fault has been found with the prints which have been employed to expose slavery at the
North, but my friends, how could this be done so effectively in any other way? Until the pictures
of the slave's sufferings were drawn and held up to public gaze, no Northerner had any idea
of the cruelty of the system, it never entered their minds that such abominations could exist
in Christian, Republican America; they never suspected that many of the gentlemen and ladies
who came from the South to spend the summer months in traveling among them, were petty tyrants
at home. And those who had lived at the South, and came to reside at the North, were too ashamed
of slavery even to speak of it; the language of their hearts was, "tell it not in Gath, publish
it not in the streets of Askelon;" they saw no use in uncovering the loathsome body to popular
sight, and in hopeless despair, wept in secret places over the sins of oppression. To such
hidden mourners the formation of Anti-Slavery Societies was as life from the dead, the first
beams of hope which gleamed through the dark clouds of despondency and grief. Prints were made
use of to effect the abolition of the Inquisition in Spain, and Clarkson employed them when
he was laboring to break up the Slave trade, and English Abolitionists used them just as we
are now doing. They are powerful appeals and have invariably done the work they were designed
to do, and we cannot consent to abandon the use of these until the realities no longer exist.

With regard to those white men, who, it was said, did try to raise an insurrection in Mississippi
a year ago, and who were stated to be Abolitionists, none of them were proved to be members
of Anti-Slavery Societies, and it must remain a matter of great doubt whether, even they were
guilty of the crimes alledged against them, because when any community is thrown into such
a panic as to inflict Lynch law upon accused persons, they cannot be supposed to be capable
of judging with calmness and impartiality. We know that the papers of which the Charleston
mail was robbed, were not insurrectionary, and that they were not sent to the colored people
as was reported. We know that Amos Dresser was no insurrectionist though he was accused of
being so, and on this false accusation was publicly whipped in Nashville in the midst of a
crowd of infuriated slaveholders. Was that young man disgraced by this infliction of corporal
punishment? No more than was the great apostle of the Gentile; who five times received forty
stripes, save one. Like him, he might have said, "henceforth I bear in my body the marks of
the Lord Jesus," for it was for the truth's sake, he suffered, as much as did the Apostle Paul.
Are Nelson, and Garrett, and Williams, and other Abolitionists who have recently been banished
from Missouri, insurrectionists? We know they are not, whatever slaveholders may choose to
call them. The spirit which now asperses the character of the Abolitionists, is the very same
which dressed up the Christians of Spain in the skins of wild beasts and pictures of devils
when they were led to execution as heretics. Before we condemn individuals, it is necessary,
even in a wicked community, to accuse them of some crime; hence, when Jezebel wished to compass
the death of Naboth, men of Belial were suborned to bear false witness against him, and so
it was with Stephen, and so it ever has been, and ever will be, as long as there is any virtue
to suffer on the rack, or the gallows. False witnesses must appear against Abolitionists before
they can be condemned.

I will now say a few words on George Thompson's mission to this country. This Philanthropist
was accused of being a foreign emissary. Were Lafayette, and Steuben, and De Kalb, and Pulawski,
foreign emissaries when they came over to America to fight against the tories, who preferred
submitting to what was termed, "the yoke of servitude," rather than bursting the fetters which
bound them to the mother country? They came with carnal weapons to engage in bloody conflict
against American citizens, and yet, where do their names stand on the page of History. Among
the honorable, or the base? Thompson came here to war against the giant sin of slavery, not
with the sword and the pistol, but with the smooth stones of oratory taken from the pure waters
of the river of Truth. His splendid talents and commanding eloquence rendered him a powerful
coadjutor in the Anti-Slavery cause, and in order to neutralize the effects of these upon his
auditors, and rob the poor slave of the benefits of his labors, his character was defamed,
his life was sought, and he at last driven from our Republic, as a fugitive. But was Thompson
disgraced by all this mean and contemptible and wicked chicanery and malice? No more than was
Paul, when in consequence of a vision he had seen at Treas, he went over the Macedonia to help
the Christians there, and was beaten and imprisoned, because he cast out a spirit of divination
from a young damsel which had brought much gain to her masters. Paul was as much a foreign
emissary in the Roman colony of Philippi, as George Thompson was in America, and it was because
he was a Jew, and taught customs it was not lawful for them to receive or observe being Romans,
that the Apostle was thus treated.

It was said, Thompson was a felon, who had fled to this country to escape transportation to
New Holland. Look at him now pouring the thundering strains of his eloquence, upon crowded
audiences in Great Britain, and see in this a triumphant vindication of his character. And
have the slaveholder, and his obsequious apologist, gained anything by all their violence and
falsehood? No! for the stone which struck Goliath of Gath, had already been thrown from the
sling. The giant of slavery who had so proudly defied the armies of the living God, had received
his death-blow before he left our shores. There is no surer indication of shallowness than the
desire to read only about pleasant subjects and characters and events. It is akin to the habit
of ignoring the existence of everything disagreeable in life, which Dickens has satirized in his character,
Mr. Podsnap. And "Podsnappery" exists among women even more than among men, because of their more
sensitive emotional nature. If women are to join with men in making the world better, they must
not blink at the misery and vice about them, and the evil elements in human nature and society
which produce these. To be good and brave is better for a grown woman than to be "sweet" and
"innocent," in the limited sense of these terms. A woman, like a man, should, "see life steadily,
and see it whole."

The foundation of a critical habit in reading has a practical bearing, inasmuch as it is a
direct training for the positions of book-reviewer and manuscript reader for magazine and book
publishers.

Since women read more than men, the woman's view of a manuscript is often preferred by publishers.
Therefore there are more women than men in the position of literary adviser. These are paid
salaries ranging from$ 25 to$ 50 a week. Manuscripts are read by the piece for from$ 3 to$
5 each. Book reviews are paid for at all prices, from the possession of the book alone to
the payment of a cent a word. It is best for the aspiring critic to practice herself on book
reviews first. In these she can with profit display her power to analyze the artistic construction
of books, and so develop her abilities as a manuscript reader.

The knowledge of books and the ability to digest their contents are necessary to the making
of a library worker, an employment which the great increase in libraries, through the benefaction
of Andrew Carnegie and others, is offering to thousands of American women. The salaries are low,
but in considering entering upon the work, weight should be given to the opportunities for literary
knowledge and culture it affords and its refined surroundings. The making of a descriptive
catalogue of the home library, using the card index system, forms
an ideal test for the young woman who is uncertain whether she has
the taste and ability required in this sort of work.

To the student in the home, even though she intends to follow some other vocation, such as teaching
or writing, such an inventory of her intellectual store-house will be invaluable. It matters
not how small the library is, for "intensive cultivation" is as profitable in mental culture
as in agriculture.

Even such accomplishments as music and painting are most cultural when pursued as if the intention
of the student were to teach them. Knowledge of technique and of the methods by which its difficulties
are overcome is the foundation of all appreciation of art. The only true connoisseur is the one
who can enter into the delight felt by the artist in creating his work. Exercise leads to invention.
The ancients well said that the contortions of the sibyl generated her inspiration. Critics have been
sneeringly defined as "those who have failed in literature and art," but this is not true of the
greatest critics, who never carried their creative work to the point of success simply because
they had found a better vocation in criticism before reaching such a point. What a loss to
the world it would have been had Ruskin developed into a painter,
even a great one, instead of the master interpreter and teacher of
painting that he did become!

Household employments, such as cooking, needlework, etc., as vocations for the unmarried woman,
no less than the married, need only be mentioned here, as their appropriateness for the girl
at home is obvious, and they are fully discussed elsewhere in this
series.

It should be suggested, however, that the greater leisure of the unmarried woman enables her
to try experiments in these subjects while the married housewife is too fully occupied by
the routine of her duties to undertake them. Indeed, if a woman become a notable cook after marriage,
it is often a sign that she is not a notable wife or mother.

It is an old saying that, "My son's my son till he gets him a wife,
But my daughter's my daughter all her life."

By the common bond of sex, a daughter is her mother's natural companion
in sympathy, however separated from her in distance.

Therefore, when she lives at home, what a special obligation is there to
be her mother's comfort and dependence!

Even though she acquire greater skill in household affairs, she should
still resign herself to the subordinate place of assistant.

The thought that she is becoming useless is the chief dread of a woman
who has been a managing worker all her life, and her daughter should
carefully avoid bringing this to her mind, indeed, should so act that
the ageing mother retains the management of the house, even though
her labors diminish.

       

In respect to the direction of children, the elder daughter should take
a hint from the manner in which the school-teacher supplements rather
than supplants the mother in her care of the young people, leading to
a difference in the kind of regard which these feel for them. The
sister should always consider herself simply as the eldest, most
experienced of the children, and so the natural monitor of the group,
and, when necessary, the mediator with the parents.

In a similar fashion the unmarried woman should act toward her neighbors
who are wives and mothers. In matters where the interests of children
and households are of chief concern she should resign the leadership
to the married women, and, after them, to the professional teachers.
Religious, social, and civic matters, wherein as a church member
and a citizen she is on an equal footing with wives and teachers,
afford her ample scope for exercising her instinct for leadership.

Every unmarried woman who lives alone should, whether or not she possess
an income, have a vocation. Earnings and wages are not alone good in
themselves, but are an additional gratification, in that they supply
a proof that the earner's service is of worth to the world.

       

Some day, when social conditions are so adjusted that economic competition
is really free, and wealth cannot be obtained save by service, money
will be a proper measure of standing in the community.

It is all the more a duty now, both to herself, her class, and to
society, that the woman who works should contend to the last cent for
her part of the wealth that is created by the business in which she
is engaged.

Where her work is equal to a man's, she should contend for wages
equal to his; where it is inferior, she should be willing to accept
less; where superior, she should demand more.

In these matters women are apt to be either too complaisant or too clamorous.
They should first be sure that they are justified in their claims,
and then, if right, be firm in their demands, and, if wrong, be resigned
to abandon them.

The law of supply and demand acting in the labor market allots wages between
workers with natural justice-- certainly more equitably than the interested
opinion either of employer or employee.

It will be seen that the woman in business needs to study the fundamental
elements of political economy even more than the housewife. Books and
magazines are filled with superficial, obvious advice as to the way
in which women as employees should conduct themselves toward their
employers and fellow workers, but rarely is there a hint given of
the actual rights and obligations of these relations, upon which the
proper conduct is based.

Employment is a business contract between employer and employee,
in which there is no legal or moral obligation for either party to
exceed the terms. Owing to an over-supply of labor, wages may be exceedingly
low, even down to the starvation point, but for this condition the
employer, if he be not also a monopolist, is not responsible.

Indeed, as employer, his presence in the labor market as an element of demand raises the market wage.
In fact, it is only by his increasing his business that he can raise wages. If he pay more to his employees
than he needs to, or is profitable for him, this increase is not real wages, but a gratuity, something
no self-respecting person likes to take. Some other class in society created this condition, and it
is this class that the low-paid workers should blame, and, as citizens, take measures against,
not the employers. Indeed, they should consider these as their natural allies in making better
economic conditions.

Accordingly, the woman in business should have sympathy for her employer, who owing to the prevalent
condition of shackled competition has troubles of his own. She should aid him by loyal, efficient
work, thus, and only thus, establishing a moral claim upon him to recognize her loyalty in kind.
Personal relations, except of this nature, should not be sought by
the employee, particularly if she is a woman. Outside of the office or shop
she may meet and treat her employer as a fellow citizen and member
of society, under the common rights of citizenship and the proper
social rules, but in business hours she should obey the strict ethics
of business.

Thus she may don what dress she will when her work is done, adopt all the eccentricities of fashion
she pleases, but she should wear with cheerfulness, and even pride,
the simple dress prescribed, for good and sufficient reasons, as her
working costume.

Even when no such regulations are made, her good sense and taste should lead her to adopt a modest,
practical working dress, simple mode of arranging the hair, etc. This is always agreeable to customers,
and it is by pleasing these she best pleases her employer. Stenographers and secretaries have
a special obligation to keep sacred the confidences of their employers. If they find that in
so doing they are made instruments in perpetrating frauds on other business men, or the community
in general, they have no right to expose these. Their only proper course is to resign their positions,
holding sacred, however, the knowledge gained while acting as employees. It is only when formally
relieved of this obligation by legal compulsion to testify in court that they may reveal
this knowledge.

While it is the custom of an employer to demand references of the employee, and not give them for himself,
the only safe course for a woman seeking employment is to look into
the character of the man for whom she is to work, and the nature of
his business.

This she may do indirectly in the case of character, and directly in the case of nature of business.
If the employer refuses to impart this, saying, "Your work will be to do whatever I ask you,"
it is a blind, and therefore dangerous contract into which you are entering, and you should withdraw
from it in time. When an employee has proved her efficiency, and has seen that it is producing
an amount of returns to the business of which she is not receiving her proportionate share, it is her right
and duty to ask for an increase in wages. If she fails to receive this, she should investigate the conditions
in the labor market of her class, and guide her action accordingly. If she finds that there
is a demand for workers of her ability at the higher wage, she should again proffer her request to her employer,
with a statement of this fact. If he still refuses the increase, she should resign her position, upon
proper notice, and seek employment elsewhere. When the unmarried woman employs herself in free
service for the public good there will be no need for her to contend
for the proper returns, which will be the love and respect of the
community, given her in full measure.

In comparison with these rewards, the honors of club president and society leader, for which many women contend
with a rivalry that surpasses in bitterness contests for political honors among men, are mean and
empty. The words of the Master to His disciples, that he who would be first among them should
be servant to his fellows, should be taken to heart by American women, before whom are opening new and
vast opportunities for the display of pride and ambition no less than for modest, faithful service.
She will see nothing but by him, and through him.

Marriage is the crown of woman's life, a dignity that is all the more honorable because it is of
general expectation and realization. There is a presumption that the unmarried woman has missed
the central and significant reason for her existence, the perpetuation and nurture of the race,
and that the burden is upon her for compensating society by other services for this lost opportunity.
Marriage for a woman means attainment first and fulfilment after, the reward given in advance of labor,
and therefore entailing a special moral obligation that it be justified
in its fruits.

Nature gives the future mother peace of mind, rest from doubt as to career and from responsibility
as to breadwinning, in order that she may tranquilly devote herself to her special function as
the maker of the home.

The fact that in the normal home the wife is relieved from the necessity of earning the living
of the home sometimes has the effect of making her careless about expenditure. The thoughtless
wife, and here thoughtless means selfish, assumes that the problem of providing
is "up to" the husband and takes no care to aid him in its solution.

If the suggestion of her being a burden to him ever does cross her mind, she is ready to excuse
herself by consolatory sayings such as "Two can live cheaper than
one," the truth of which, though universal when every wife was a producer
of such things as clothing that are now bought is now the case only
in agricultural homes, and even there has lost a great deal of its
force.

Men do not marry now, as they once did, for economic reasons, but rather in spite of them, for
the higher rewards of love and companionship of wife and children, and this the wife should recognize
by giving her husband the things for which he has made his economic
sacrifice.

In the old days a man who did not marry paid for his liberty by loss of physical comfort and
wealth. Thus Hesiod, one of the earliest Greek poets, in his Farmer's Almanac called "Works
and Days," coupled the marrying of a wife with the purchase of a yoke of oxen and a plow as the
first things needful in beginning to farm, and this in despite of the fact that he was a woman-hater.
Now it is the woman who is tempted to marry for economic reasons, to be certain of material
support while she exercises herself in those household avocations
and social pleasures which constitute the main activities of women.

This is a legitimate consideration only when the interest of the man is also taken into account.
Marriage to a man whom she does not love is a crime for any woman; giving falsely the offerings of
love for material things is harlotry even though legitimated by vows and ceremonies. On the other
hand, marriage for love to a man who cannot support her is a sad mistake for a woman who is not able
or willing to take the place of breadwinner, for such a union defeats its own purpose. Therefore,
in kindness to the man as well as to herself, such a woman should satisfy herself that he can support
her, not necessarily in "the style to which she has been accustomed," but in the style necessary for
her to perform the duties of homemaker and mother. Those marriages are the happiest where a
wife can also enter into sympathy with her husband's business ambitions
in particular and ideals of life in general.

Here she is peculiarly his helpmate. He can hire a housekeeper, but not
a companion of his bosom. A girl properly reared will naturally be drawn
to a man complementary to her in character-- not "opposite," as is
so often said.

Opposition implies antagonism, which would be the ruin of home life. The term complementary implies
similarity in the main elements of character with adaptable differences. Good qualities, such
as strength and delicacy, may complement each other, but not evil and
good qualities, such as brutality and tenderness. As Scott says in
the quotation at the head of this chapter, a tender wife may suit the taste
of a churlish husband, but only by not long surviving his unkindness.
While such opposition may not result in actual death, it certainly
leads to the demise of all that makes life worth living.

A woman should not expect to find a perfect husband. Indeed, her chief usefulness to him will be in her strengthening
his weak points, and cultivating his right inclinations until they are confirmed habits. Yet in this
work she should realize the imperfections in herself, and respond to the similar aid he gives
her by his example and suggestions. Mutual aid is the great bond of marriage, as it is of all
human relations. Women, from their weaker condition, have from ages past been trained to gain their
desires from men by indirection. In the worst form, this appears as deceit; in the best, as tact.
Laying aside the moral aspect, deceit is always unwise in a wife,
since, in time, it defeats its own end.

Many a woman thinks that she is deceiving her husband, since she wins her points, when he thoroughly
recognizes her machinations, and accedes to them without contest simply for peace in the household, acquiring
a feeling of moral superiority to her which, though it may be tolerant, is nevertheless contemptuous.
But when she employs loving tact, especially in the improvement of her husband's habits and traits,
even though he realizes it, he is at heart grateful for it, and proud of his wife's superiority
in these points.

In those matters where the characters of husband and wife are strong enough to permit frankness,
this should always be employed. In all the grave problems of life there should be perfect confidence
between the pair who have taken the solemn vows of wedlock. Any third party that enjoys a superior
confidence with one of them, whether relative or friend, even the pastor or family physician, is
the man invoked against in the marriage charge, who "puts them asunder." Where unhappily the husband
is irreligious and the wife is forced to seek confidential help and consolation of her spiritual
adviser, she should strictly limit these to religious matters, else she will grow apart from her
husband.

George Moore, in his collection of stories entitled, "The Untilled Field,"
presents the propensity of women in Ireland to run to the priest
for guidance on every question, as the chief cause of their domestic
tragedies.

In America the family physician is as apt as the pastor to be made the recipient of such confidences,
with evil results where he is not wise enough to advise that the husband is the proper person
to whom the wife should go. Of love, of joy, of peace and plenty: where, Supporting and supported,
polished friends And dear relations mingle into bliss. JAMES THOMSON-- The Seasons When husband
and wife are truly mated, they form a co-partnership in the building
of the home.

In this work the man, occupied with his business, must leave a large part of the direction, even
in material things, to the woman.

And these material things are of primary consideration, as they are apt to be in every problem
of life. The happiness of home is immediately and always dependent on the kind of a house
used for dwelling and its equipment for utility and comfort. The first thing to be considered
is the location of the home. The choice of a good neighborhood, from both social and sanitary viewpoints,
is essential.

Good neighbors are almost as necessary as good air and good drainage. Even before the children
have come, it is a limitation on the function of a home for husband and wife to be forced to seek social
life entirely outside the neighborhood. If charity (that is, loving, helpful associations) begins
at home, it certainly does not stop at the threshold, or leap therefrom over those nearest us.
The best citizens are those who take a human interest in the people of their street, or ward, or village,
for influence in civic reform is dependent on neighborliness. Children are good citizens in this
respect by nature. Limited to association with children of the neighborhood, they form an affection
for their playmates, which may lead to good or evil results, as these playmates are moral or vicious
in their tendencies.


This is very evident in the case before us--especially, when now and then, old habits of thought
and feeling break out, in spite of every effort to repress them, and the Professor is himself
again, and discourses as manfully, as fearlessly, and as eloquently, as he ever had done before
the slaveholders got their hands upon him. It is not a little amusing to notice, that, although
the burden of his article is to show that slavery is one of God's institutions, (what an undertaking
for a Professor of Theology in the year 1836!) he so far forgets the interests of his new friends
and their expectations from him, as to admit on one page, that "the general principles of the
gospel have destroyed domestic slavery throughout the greater part of Christendom;" and on
another, that "the South has to choose between emancipation, by the silent and holy influence
of the gospel, or to abide the issue of a long continued conflict against the laws of God."
Whoever heard, until these strange times on which we have fallen, of any thing, which, to use
the Professor's language about slavery, "it is in vain, to contend is sin, and yet profess
reverence for the Scriptures," being at war with and destroyed by the principles of the gospel.
What sad confusion of thought the pro-slavery influences, to which some great divines have
yielded, have wrought in them!

I will proceed to argue, that the institution in the Southern States called "slavery," is radically
unlike any form of servitude under which Jews were held, agreeably to the Divine will; and
also radically unlike any form of servitude approved of God in the patriarchal families.

1st. God does not contradict Himself. He is "without variableness or shadow of turning." He
loves his word and has "magnified it above all his name." He commands his rational creatures
to "search the Scriptures." He cannot, therefore, approve of a system which forbids the searching
of them, and shuts out their light from the soul; and which, by the confession of your own
selves, turns men in this gospel land into heathen. He has written his commandment against
adultery, and He cannot, therefore, approve of a system, which induces this crime, by forbidding
marriage. The following extract from an opinion of the Attorney General of Maryland, shows
some of the consequences of this "forbidding to marry." "A slave has never maintained an action
against the violator of his bed. A slave is not admonished for incontinence, or punished for
fornication or adultery; never prosecuted for bigamy." Again, God has written his commandment,
that children should honor their parents. How, then, can He approve of a system, which pours
contempt on the relation of parent and child? Which subjects them to be forcibly separated
from each other, and that too, beyond the hope of reunion?--under which parents are exposed
and sold in the market-place along with horses and cattle?--under which they are stripped and
lashed, and made to suffer those innumerable, and some of them, nameless indignities, that
tend to generate in their children, who witness them, any feelings, rather than those of respect
and honor, for parents thus degraded? Some of these nameless indignities are alluded to in
a letter written to me from a slave state, in March, 1833. "In this place," says the writer,
"I find a regular and a much frequented slave market, where thousands are yearly sold like
cattle to the highest bidder. It is the opinion of gentlemen here, that not far from five hundred
thousand dollars are yearly paid in this place for negroes; and at this moment, I can look
from the window of my room and count six droves of from twenty to forty each, sitting in the
market place for sale. This morning I witnessed the sale of twelve slaves, and I could but
shudder at the language used and the liberties taken with the females!"

2d. As a proof, that in the kinds of servitude referred to, God did not invest Abraham, or
any other person with that absolute ownership of his fellow-men, which is claimed by Southern
slaveholders--I would remark, that He has made man accountable to Himself; but slavery makes
him accountable to, and a mere appendage to his fellow-man. Slavery substitutes the will of
a fallible fellow-man for that infallible rule of action--the will of God. The slave, instead
of being allowed to make it the great end of his existence to glorify God and enjoy Him for
ever, is degraded from his exalted nature, which borders upon angelic dignity, to be, to do,
and to suffer what a mere man bids him be, do, and suffer.

The Southern slave would obey God in respect to marriage, and also to the reading and studying
of His word. But this, as we have seen, is forbidden him. He may not marry; nor may he read
the Bible. Again, he would obey God in the duties of secret and social prayer. But he may not
attend the prayer-meeting--certainly not that of his choice; and instances are known, where
the master has intruded upon the slave's secret audience with heaven, to teach him by the lash,
or some other instrument of torture, that he would allow "no other God before" himself.

Said Joseph Mason, an intelligent colored man, who was born and bred near Richmond, in Virginia,
in reply to my question whether he and his fellow-slaves cared about their souls--"We did not
trouble ourselves about our souls; we were our masters' property and not our own; under their
and not our own control; and we believed that our masters were responsible for our souls."
This unconcern for their spiritual interests grew very naturally out of their relation to their
masters; and were the relation ordained of God, the unconcern would, surely, be both philosophical
and sinless.

God cannot approve of a system of servitude, in which the master is guilty of assuming absolute
power--of assuming God's place and relation towards his fellow-men. Were the master, in every
case, a wise and good man--as wise and good as is consistent with this wicked and heaven-daring
assumption on his part--the condition of the slave would it is true, be far more tolerable,
than it now is. This one week has been a critical one to our Mary;-- in it, she has made the great
discovery, that she loves; and she has made her first step into the gay world; and now she
comes back to her retirement to think the whole over by herself. It seems a dream to her, that
she who sits there now reeling yarn in her stuff petticoat and white short-gown is the same who
took the arm of Colonel Burr amid the blaze of wax-lights and the
sweep of silks and rustle of plumes.

She wonders dreamily as she remembers the dark, lovely face of the foreign Madame, so brilliant
under its powdered hair and flashing gems,-- the sweet, foreign accents of the voice,-- the tiny,
jewelled fan, with its glancing pictures and sparkling tassels, whence exhaled vague and floating
perfumes; then she hears again that manly voice, softened to tones so seductive, and sees those
fine eyes with the tears in them, and wonders within herself that
he could have kissed her hand with such veneration, as if she had
been a throned queen.

But here the sound of busy, pattering footsteps is heard on the old, creaking staircase, and
soon the bows of Miss Prissy's bonnet part the folds of the boudoir drapery, and her merry,
May-day face looks in.

"Well, really, Mary, how do you do, to be sure? You wonder to see me, don't you? but I thought
I must just run in, a minute, on my way up to Miss Marvyn's. I promised her at least a half-a-day,
though I didn't see how I was to spare it,-- for I tell Miss Wilcox I just run and run till it does
seem as if my feet would drop off; but I thought I must just step in to say, that I, for my
part, do admire the Doctor more than ever, and I was telling your mother we mus'n't mind too
much what people say. I'most made Miss Wilcox angry, standing up for him; but I put it right
to her, and says I,'Miss Wilcox, you know folks must speak what's on their mind,-- in particular,
ministers must; and you know, Miss Wilcox,'I says,'that the Doctor is a good man, and lives up
to his teaching, if anybody in this world does, and gives away every dollar he can lay hands on
to those poor negroes, and works over'em and teaches'em as if they were his brothers'; and
says I,'Miss Wilcox, you know I don't spare myself, night nor day, trying to please you and
do your work to give satisfaction; but when it comes to my conscience,'says I,'Miss Wilcox, you know
I always must speak out, and if it was the last word I had to say on my dying bed, I'd say that I think
the Doctor is right.'Why! what things he told about the slave-ships, and packing those poor creatures
so that they couldn't move nor breathe!-- why, I declare, every time I turned over and stretched
in bed, I thought of it;-- and says I,'Miss Wilcox, I do believe that the judgments of God will come down
on us, if something a'n't done, and I shall always stand by the Doctor,'says I;-- and, if you'll
believe me, just then I turned round and saw the General; and the General, he just haw-hawed right
out, and says he,'Good for you, Miss Prissy! that's real grit,'says he,'and I like you better
for it.'-- Laws," added Miss Prissy, reflectively, "I sha'n't lose by it, for Miss Wilcox knows
she never can get anybody to do the work for her that I will."

"Do
you think," said Mary, "that there are a great many made angry?"

"Why, bless your heart, child, haven't you heard?-- Why, there never was such a talk in all Newport.
Why, you know Mr. Simeon Brown is gone clear off to Dr. Stiles; and Miss Brown, I was making
up her plum-colored satin o'Monday, and you ought to'a'heard her talk. But, I tell you, I fought
her. She used to talk to me," said Miss Prissy, sinking her voice to a mysterious whisper, "'cause
I never could come to it to say that I was willin'to be lost, if it was for the glory of God;
and she always told me folks could just bring their minds right up to anything they knew they must;
and I just got the tables turned on her, for they talked and abused the Doctor till they fairly wore
me out, and says I,'Well, Miss Brown, I'll give in, that you and Mr. Brown do act up to your
principles; you certainly act as if you were willing to be damned';-- and so do all those
folks who will live on the blood and groans of the poor Africans, as the Doctor said; and I should
think, by the way Newport people are making their money, that they were all pretty willing to go
that way,-- though, whether it's for the glory of God, or not, I'm doubting.-- But you see, Mary,"
said Miss Prissy, sinking her voice again to a solemn whisper, "I never was clear on that point;
it always did seem to me a dreadful high place to come to, and it didn't seem to be given to me; but
I thought, perhaps, if it was necessary, it would be given, you know,-- for the Lord always
has been so good to me that I've faith to believe that, and so I just say,'The Lord is my shepherd,
I shall not want'";-- and Miss Prissy hastily whisked a little drop out of her blue eye with
her handkerchief.

At this moment, Mrs. Scudder came into the boudoir with a face expressive
of some anxiety.

"I suppose Miss Prissy has told you," she said, "the news about the Browns. That'll make a
great falling off in the Doctor's salary; and I feel for him, because I know it will come hard
to him not to be able to help and do, especially for these poor negroes, just when he will. But then
we must put everything on the most economical scale we can, and just try, all of us, to make
it up to him. I was speaking to Cousin Zebedee about it, when he was down here, on Monday, and
he is all clear;-- he has made out free papers for Candace and Cato
and Dinah, and they couldn't, one of'em, be hired to leave him; and
he says, from what he's seen already, he has no doubt but they'll
do enough more to pay for their wages."

"Well," said Miss Prissy, "I haven't got anybody to care for but myself. I was telling sister
Elizabeth, one time, (she's married and got four children,) that I could take a storm a good
deal easier than she could,'cause I hadn't near so many sails to pull down; and now, you just
look to me for the Doctor's shirts,'cause, after this, they shall all come in ready to put on,
if I have to sit up till morning. And I hope, Miss Scudder, you can trust me to make them; for
if I do say it myself, I a'n't afraid to do fine stitching'longside of anybody,-- and hemstitching
ruffles, too; and I haven't shown you yet that French stitch I learned
of the nuns;-- but you just set your heart at rest about the Doctor's
shirts.

I always thought," continued Miss Prissy, laughing, "that I should have made a famous hand about
getting up that tabernacle in the wilderness, with the blue and the
purple and fine-twined linen; it's one of my favorite passages, that
is;-- different things, you know, are useful to different people."

"Well," said Mrs. Scudder, "I see that it's our call to be a remnant small and despised, but I
hope we sha'n't shrink from it. I thought, when I saw all those fashionable people go out Sunday,
tossing their heads and looking so scornful, that I hoped grace would
be given me to be faithful."

"And what does the Doctor say?" said Miss Prissy.

"He hasn't said a word; his mind seems to be very much lifted above
all these things."

"La, yes," said Miss Prissy, "that's one comfort; he'll never know where his shirts come from;
and besides that, Miss Scudder," she said, sinking her voice to a whisper, "as you know, I
haven't any children to provide for,-- though I was telling Elizabeth t'other day, when I was
making up frocks for her children, that I believed old maids, first and last, did more providing
for children than married women; but still I do contrive to slip away a pound-note, now and
then, in my little old silver teapot that was given to me when they settled old Mrs. Simpson's
property, (I nursed her all through her last sickness, and laid her out with my own hands,) and,
as I was saying, if ever the Doctor should want money, you just let
me know."

"Thank you, Miss Prissy," said Mrs. Scudder; "we all know where your
heart is."

"And now," added Miss Prissy, "what do you suppose they say? Why, they say Colonel Burr is struck
dead in love with our Mary; and you know his wife's dead, and he's a widower; and they do say
that he'll get to be the next President. Sakes alive! Well, Mary must be careful, if she don't
want to be carried off; for they do say that there can't any woman resist him, that sees enough
of him. Why, there's that poor French woman, Madame---- what do you call her, that's staying with the
Vernons?-- they say she's over head and ears in love with him."

"But she's a married woman," said Mary; "it can't be possible!"

Mrs. Scudder looked reprovingly at Miss Prissy, and for a few moments there was great shaking
of heads and a whispered conference between the two ladies, ending in Miss Prissy's going
off, saying, as she went down-stairs,-- "Well, if women will do so,
I, for my part, can't blame the men."

In a few moments Miss Prissy rushed back as much discomposed as a
clucking hen who has seen a hawk.

"Well, Miss Scudder, what do you think? Here's Colonel Burr come
to call on the ladies!"

Mrs. Scudder's first movement, in common with all middle-aged gentlewomen,
was to put her hand to her head and reflect that she had not on her
best cap; and Mary looked down at her dimpled hands, which were blue
from the contact with mixed yarn she had just been spinning.

"Now I'll tell you what," said Miss Prissy,-- "wasn't it lucky you had me here? for I first saw
him coming in at the gate, and I whipped in quick as a wink and opened the best-room window-shutters,
and then I was back at the door, and he bowed to me as if I'd been
a queen, and says he,'Miss Prissy, how fresh you're looking this morning!'You
see, I was in working at the Vernons', but I never thought as he'd
noticed me.

And then he inquired in the handsomest way for the ladies and the Doctor, and so I took him into
the parlor and settled him down, and then I ran into the study, and you may depend upon it I flew round
lively for a few minutes. I got the Doctor's study-gown off, and got
his best coat on, and put on his wig for him, and started him up
kinder lively,-- you know it takes me to get him down into this world,--
and so there he's in talking with him; and so you can just slip down
and dress yourselves,-- easy as not."

Meanwhile Colonel Burr was entertaining the simple-minded Doctor with all the grace of a young neophyte
come to sit at the feet of superior truth. There are some people who receive from Nature as a gift a sort
of graceful facility of sympathy, by which they incline to take on, for the time being, the
sentiments and opinions of those with whom they converse, as the chameleon was fabled to change
its hue with every surrounding. Such are often supposed to be wilfully acting a part, as exerting
themselves to flatter and deceive, when in fact they are only framed
so sensitive to the sphere of mental emanation which surrounds others
that it would require an exertion not in some measure to harmonize
with it.

In approaching others in conversation, they are like a musician who joins a performer on an instrument,--
it is impossible for them to strike a discord; their very nature urges them to bring into play faculties
according in vibration with those which another is exerting. It was as natural as possible for Burr
to commence talking with the Doctor on scenes and incidents in the family of President Edwards,
and his old tutor, Dr. Bellamy,-- and thence to glide on to the points of difference and agreement
in theology, with a suavity and deference which acted on the good
man like a June sun on a budding elm-tree. The Doctor was soon wide
awake, talking with fervent animation on the topic of disinterested benevolence,--
Burr the mean while studying him with the quiet interest of an observer
of natural history, who sees a new species developing before him.

At all the best possible points he interposed suggestive questions, and set up objections in the quietest manner
for the Doctor to knock down, smiling ever the while as a man may who truly and genuinely does not care
a sou for truth on any subject not practically connected with his own schemes in life. He
therefore gently guided the Doctor to sail down the stream of his own thoughts till his bark glided
out into the smooth waters of the Millennium, on which, with great simplicity, he gave his views at length.
It was just in the midst of this that Mary and her mother entered. Burr interrupted the conversation
to pay them the compliments of the morning,-- to inquire for their health, and hope they suffered no inconvenience
from their night-ride from the party; then, seeing the Doctor still looking eager to go on, he contrived
with gentle dexterity to tie again the broken thread of conversation. "Our excellent friend," he said,
"was explaining to me his views of a future Millennium. I assure you, ladies, that we sometimes
find ourselves in company which enables us to believe in the perfectibility of the human species.
We see family retreats, so unaffected, so charming in their simplicity, where industry and piety
so go hand in hand! One has only to suppose all families such, to imagine a Millennium." There
was no disclaiming this compliment, because so delicately worded,
that, while perfectly clear to the internal sense, it was, in a manner,
veiled and unspoken.

Meanwhile, the Doctor, who sat ready to begin where he left off, turned to his complaisant listener
and resumed an exposition of the Apocalypse. "To my mind, it is certain," he said, "as it is now
three hundred years since the fifth vial was poured out, there is good reason to suppose that
the sixth vial began to be poured out at the beginning of the last
century, and has been running for a hundred years or more, so that
it is run nearly out; the seventh and last vial will begin to run
early in the next century."

"You
anticipate, then, no rest for the world for some time to come?" said Burr. "Certainly not," said
the Doctor, definitively; "there will be no rest from overturnings till He whose right it is shall come."
The passage, "he added," concerning the drying up of the river Euphrates, under the sixth vial,
has a distinct reference, I think, to the account in ancient writers
of the taking of Babylon, and prefigures, in like manner, that the
resources of that modern Babylon, the Popish power, shall continue
to be drained off, as they have now been drying up for a century or
more, till, at last, there will come a sudden and final downfall of
that power.

And after that will come the first triumphs of truth and righteousness,--
the marriage-supper of the Lamb.

"" These investigations must undoubtedly possess a deep interest for you, Sir, "said Burr;" the
hope of a future as well as the tradition of a past age of gold seems
to have been one of the most cherished conceptions of the human breast.

"" In those times, "continued the Doctor," the whole earth will be of one language. "" Which language,
Sir, do you suppose will be considered worthy of such preeminence?

"inquired his listener." That will probably be decided by an amicable conference of all nations,
"said the Doctor;" and the one universally considered most valuable will be adopted; and the
literature of all other nations being translated into it, they will gradually drop all other
tongues. Brother Stiles thinks it will be the Hebrew. I am not clear
on that point.

The
Hebrew seems to me too inflexible, and not sufficiently copious.

I do not think, "he added, after some consideration," that it will be the Hebrew tongue. "" I
am most happy to hear it, Sir, "said Burr, gravely;"

I never felt much attracted to that language. But, ladies, "he added, starting up with animation," I
must improve this fine weather to ask you to show me the view of the sea from this little hill beyond your
house, it is evidently so fine;-- I trust I am not intruding too far on your morning? "" By
no means, Sir, "said Mrs. Scudder, rising;" we will go with you in a moment. "And soon Colonel
Burr, with one on either arm, was to be seen on the top of the hill beyond the house,-- the very
one from which Mary, the week before, had seen the retreating sail
we all wot of.

Hence, though her companion contrived, with the adroitness of a practised man of gallantry, to direct
his words and looks as constantly to her as if they had been in a tête-a-tête, and although nothing
could be more graceful, more delicately flattering, more engaging,
still the little heart kept equal poise; for where a true love has
once bolted the door, a false one serenades in vain under the window.

Some fine, instinctive perceptions of the real character of the man
beside her seemed to have dawned on Mary's mind in the conversation
of the morning;-- she had felt the covert and subtile irony that lurked
beneath his polished smile, felt the utter want of faith or sympathy
in what she and her revered friend deemed holiest, and therefore there
was a calm dignity in her manner of receiving his attentions which
rather piqued and stimulated his curiosity.

He had been wont to boast that he could subdue any woman, if he could only see enough of her;
in the first interview in the garden, he had made her color come
and go and brought tears to her eyes in a manner that interested his
fancy, and he could not resist the impulse to experiment again.

It was a new sensation to him, to find himself quietly studied and calmly measured by those
thoughtful blue eyes; he felt, with his fine, instinctive tact, that
the soul within was infolded in some crystalline sphere of protection,
transparent, but adamantine, so that he could not touch it. What
was that secret poise, that calm, immutable centre on which she rested,
that made her, in her rustic simplicity, so unapproachable and so strong?
Burr remembered once finding in his grandfather's study, among a
mass of old letters, one in which that great man, in early youth,
described his future wife, then known to him only by distant report. I will proceed to assign what to me appear to be some of the probable reasons, why
the Apostles specified the sins of lying, covetousness, stealing, &c., and, agreeably to the
admission, which lays me under great disadvantage, did not specify slavery.

[Footnote A: This is no small admission in the face of the passage, in the first chapter of
Timothy, which particularizes manstealing, as a violation of the law of God. I believe all
scholars will admit, that one of the crimes referred to by the Apostle, is kidnapping. But
is not kidnapping an integral and most vital part of the system of slavery? And is not the
slaveholder guilty of this crime? Does he not, indeed, belong to a class of kidnappers stamped
with peculiar meanness? The pirate, on the coast of Africa, has to cope with the strength and
adroitness of mature years. To get his victim into his clutches is a deed of daring and of
peril demanding no little praise, upon the principles of the world's "code of honor." But the
proud chivalry of the South is securely employed in kidnapping newborn infants. The pirate,
in the one case, soothes his conscience with the thought, that the bloody savages merit no
better treatment, than they are receiving at his hands:--but the pirate, in the other, can
have no such plea--for they, whom he kidnaps, are untainted with crime.

And what better does it make the case for you, if we adopt the translation of "men stealers?"
Far better, you will say, for, on the authority of Othello himself,

  "He that is robb'd------
  Let him not know it, and he's not robbed at all."

But, your authority is not conclusive. The crime of the depredation is none the less, because
the subject is ignorant or unconscious of it. It is true, the slave, who never possessed liberty--who
was kidnapped at his birth--may not grieve, under the absence of it, as he does, from whose
actual and conscious possession it had been violently taken: but the robbery is alike plain,
and is coupled with a meanness, in the one case, which does not disgrace it in the other. ]

1st. The book of Acts sets forth the fundamental doctrines and requirements of Christianity.
It is to the letters of the Apostles we are to look for extended specifications of right and
wrong affections, and right and wrong practices. Why do these letters omit to specify the sin
of slaveholding? Because they were addressed to professing Christians exclusively; who, far
more emphatically then than now, were "the base things of the world," and were in circumstances
to be slaves, rather than slaveholders. Doubtless, there were many slaves amongst them--but
I cannot admit, that there were slaveholders. There is not the least probability, that slaveholding
was a prevalent sin amongst primitive Christians[B]. Instructions to them on that sin might
have been almost as superfluous, as would be lectures on the sin of luxury, addressed to the
poor Greenland disciples, whose poverty compels them to subsist on filthy oil. No one, acquainted
with the history of their lives, believes that the Apostles were slave-holders. They labored,
"working with (their) own hands." The supposition, that they were slaveholders, is inconsistent
with their practice, and with the tenor of their instructions to others on the duty of manual
labor. But if the Apostles were not slaveholders, why may we suppose, that their disciples
were? At the South, it is, "like people, like priest," in this matter. There, the minister
of the gospel thinks, that he has as good right to hold slaves, as has his parishioner: and
your Methodists go so far, as to say, that even a bishop has as good right, as any other person,
to have slaves

[Footnote B: How strongly does the following extract from the writings of the great and good
Augustine, who lived in the fourth century, argue, that slaveholding was not a prevalent sin
amongst primitive Christians! "Non opurtet Christianum possidere servum quomodo equum aut argentum.
Quis dicere audeat ut vestimentum cum debere contemni? Hominem namque homo tamquam seipsum
diligere debet cui ab omnium Domino, ut inimicos diligat, imperatur." A Christian ought not
to hold his servant as he does his horse or his money. Who dares say that he should be thought
as lightly of as a garment? For man, whom the Lord of all has commanded to love his enemies,
should love his fellow-man as himself.]

  "------to fan him while he sleeps,
  And tremble when he wakes."

Indeed, they already threaten to separate from their Northern brethren, unless this right be
conceded. But have we not other and conclusive evidence, that primitive Christians were not
slaveholders? We will cite a few passages from the Bible to show, that it was not the will
of the Apostles to have their disciples hold manual labor in disrepute, as it is held, in all
slaveholding communities. "Do your own business, and work with your own hands, as we commanded
you." "For this we commanded you, that, if any would not work, neither should he eat." In bringing
the whole verse into this last quotation, I may have displeased you. I am aware, that you slaveholders
proudly and indignantly reject the applicableness to yourselves of the first phrase in this
verse, and also of the maxim, that "the partaker of stolen goods is as bad as the thief." I
am aware, that you insist, that the kidnapping of a man, or getting possession of him, after
he has been kidnapped, is not to be compared, if indeed it can be properly called theft at
all, with the crime of stealing a thing. It occurs to me, that if a shrewd lawyer had you on
trial for theft, he would say, that you were estopped from going into this distinction between
a man and a thing, inasmuch as, by your own laws, the slave is expressly declared to be a chattel--is
expressly elevated into a thing. He would say, however competent it may be for others to justify
themselves on the ground, that it was but a man, and not a thing, they had stolen; your own
statutes, which, with magic celerity, convert stolen men into things, make such a plea, on
your part, utterly inadmissible. He would have you as fast, as though the stolen goods, in
your hands, were a bushel of wheat, or some other important thing, instead of a mere man. Now
I do not say, that all the primitive believers did so. But if a portion of them did, and met
with the Apostles' approbation in it, is it at all probable, that a course, so diverse from
it, as that of slaveholding in the Church, met likewise with their approbation?

2d. I go on to account for the Apostles' omission to specify slavery.

Criminality is not always obvious, in proportion to its extent. The sin of the traffic in intoxicating
liquors, was, until the last few years, almost universally unfelt and unperceived. But now,
we meet with men, who, though it was "in all good conscience," that they were once engaged
in it, would not resume it for worlds; and who see more criminality, in taking money from a
fellow man, in exchange for the liquor which intoxicates him, than in simple theft. However
it may be with others, in this employment, they now see, that, for them to traffic in intoxicating
liquors, would be to stain themselves with the twofold crime of robbery and murder. How is
it, that good men ever get into this employment?--and, under what influences and by what process
of thought, do they come to the determination to abandon it? The former is accounted for, by
the fact, that they grow up--have their education--their moral and intellectual training--in
the midst of a public opinion, and even of laws also, which favor and sanction the employment.
The latter is accounted for, by the fact, that they are brought, in the merciful providence
of God, to observe and study and understand the consequences of their employment--especially
on those who drink their liquor--the liquor which they sell or make, or, with no less criminality,
furnish the materials for making. These consequences they find to be "evil, only evil, and
that continually." They find, that this liquor imparts no benefit to them who drink it, but
tends to destroy, and, oftentimes, does destroy, their healths and lives. To continue, therefore,
in an employment in which they receive their neighbor's money, without returning him an equivalent,
or any portion of an equivalent, and, in which they expose both his body and soul to destruction,
is to make themselves, in their own judgments, virtually guilty of theft and murder.

Thus it is in the case of a national war, waged for conquest. Christians have taken part in
it; and, because they were blinded by a wrong education, and were acting in the name of their
country and under the impulses of patriotism, they never suspected that they were doing the
devil, instead of "God, service." But when, in the kind providence of God, one of these butchers
of their fellow beings is brought to pause and consider his ways, and to resolve his enormous
and compound sin into its elements of wickedness,--into the lies, theft, covetousness, adultery,
murder, and what not of crime, which enter into it,--he is amazed that he has been so "slow
of heart to believe," and abandon the iniquity of his deeds.

What I have said to show that Christians, even in enlightened and gospelized lands, may be
blind to the great wickedness of certain customs and institutions, serves to introduce the
remark; that there were probably some customs and institutions, in the time of the Apostles,
on which it would have been even worse than lost labor for them to make direct attacks. Take,
for example, the kind of war of which we have been speaking. If there are reasons why the modern
Christian can be insensible to the sin of it, there are far stronger reasons why the primitive
Christian could be. If the light and instruction which have been accumulating for eighteen
centuries, are scarcely sufficient to convince Christians of its wickedness, is it reasonable
to suppose that, at the commencement of this long period, they could have been successfully
taught it? Consider, that at that time the literature and sentiment of the world were wholly
on the side of war; and especially, consider how emphatically the authority of civil government
and of human law was in favor of its rightfulness. Now, to how great an extent such authority
covers over and sanctifies sin, may be inferred from the fact, that there are many, who, notwithstanding
they believe slavery to be a most Heaven-daring sin, yet, because it is legalized and under
the wing of civil government, would not have it spoken against. Even Rev. Dr. Miller, in certain
resolutions which he submitted to the last General Assembly, indicated his similar reverence
for human laws; and the lamented Dr. Rice distinctly recognises, in his letter to Mr. Maxwell,
the doctrine that the Church is bound to be quiet about every sin which the civil government
adopts and whitewashes. That the Christian Spectator should indorse the Doctor's sentiments
on this point is still more worthy of remark than that he should utter them. Indeed, I judge
from what you say on the 68th and 69th pages of your book, that you are yourself opposed to
calling in question the morality of that which civil government approves. But, to doubt the
infallibility of civil government,--to speak against Caesar,--was manifestly held to be quite
as presumptuous in the time of the Apostles as it is now.

Another reason why an Apostle would probably have deemed it hopeless to attempt to persuade
his disciples, immediately and directly, of the sin of war, is to be found in the fact of their
feeble and distorted perception of truth and duty. We, whose advantage it is to have lived
all our days in the light of the gospel, and whose ancestors, from time immemorial, had the
like precious advantage, can hardly conceive how very feeble and distorted was that perception.
But, consider for a moment who those disciples were. They had, most of them, but just been
taken out of the gross darkness and filth of heathenism. In reading accounts which missionaries
give of converted heathen--of such, even, as have for ten, fifteen, or twenty years, been reputed
to be pious--you are, doubtless, often surprised to find how grossly erroneous are their moral
perceptions. Their false education still cleaves to them. They are yet, to a great extent,
in the mould of a corrupted public opinion; and, as far from having a clear discernment of
moral truth, as were the partially unsealed eyes which saw "men, as trees, walking." The first
letter to the Church at Corinth, proves that the new principles implanted in its members had
not yet purged out the leaven of their old wickedness; and that their conceptions of Christian
purity and conduct were sadly defective. As it was with the Corinthian Christians, so was it
to a great extent with the other Christians of that age. Now, if the Apostles did not directly
teach the primitive believers that wars, and theatres, and games, and slavery, are sinful,
it is because they thought it more fit to exercise their ignorant pupils chiefly in the mere
alphabet and syllables of Christianity. (Acts xv, 28, 29.) The construction of words and sentences
would naturally follow. The rudiments of the gospel, if once possessed by them, would be apt
to lead them on to greater attainments. Indeed, the love, peace, truth, and other elements
of holy living inculcated by the Apostles, would, if turned to all proper account, be fatal
to every, even the most gigantic, system of wickedness. Having these elements in their minds
and hearts, they would not fail of condemning the great and compound sin of war whenever they
should be led to take it up, examine it, resolve it into its constituent parts, and lay these
parts for comparison, by the side of those elements. But, such an advance was hardly to be
expected from many of these heathen converts during the brief period in which they enjoyed
Apostolic instruction; and it is but too probable, that most of them died in great ignorance
of the sin of national wars. Converts from the heathen, in the present age, when conviction
of the sinfulness of war is spreading in different parts of Christendom, would be more likely
to imbibe correct views of it.

The Apostles "fed with milk" before they fed with meat, as did our Saviour, who declared, "I
have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now." In every community, the
foundation principles of righteousness must be laid, before there can be fulcrums for the levers
to be employed in overthrowing the sins which prevail in it. You will doubtless, then, agree
with me, that it is not probable that the Apostles taught their heathen converts, directly
and specifically, the sinfulness of war. Zola, desiring bread, undertook the task, with results
that might have been anticipated.

Therese Raquin is a work of another kind, for into it Zola put the best that was in him, and
elaborated the story with the greatest care. It is a tale of Divine Justice, wherein a husband
is murdered by his wife and her lover, who, though safe from earthly consequence, are yet separated
by the horror of their deed, and come to hate each other for the thing they have done. The
book is one of remarkable power, and it is interesting to note that in the preface to it Zola
first made use of the word naturalisme as describing that form of
fiction which he was afterwards to uphold in and out of season.

A violent attack in the Figaro gave opportunity for a vigorous reply, and the advertisement so
obtained assisted the sales of the book, which from the first was a success. It was followed
by Madeleine Ferat, which, however, was less fortunate. The subject is unpleasant, and its treatment
lacks the force which made Therese Raquin convincing.

Up to this time Zola's life had been a steady struggle against poverty. He was terribly in earnest,
and was determined to create for himself a place in literature; to accomplish this end he counted
no labour too arduous, no sacrifice too great. His habits were Spartan in their simplicity;
he was a slave to work and method, good equipment for the vast task he was next to undertake.
He had long been an earnest student of Balzac, and there is no doubt that it was the example
of the great Comedie Humaine which inspired his scheme for a series of novels dealing with the
life history of a family during a particular period; as he described it himself, "the history natural
and social of a family under the Second Empire." It is possible that he was also influenced
by the financial success of the series of historical novels written by Erckmann-Chatrian, known
as the Romans Nationaux. It was not, however, the past about which he proposed to write; no period
was more suitable for his purpose than that in which he lived, that Second Empire whose regime began
in blood and continued in corruption. He had there, under his own eyes and within his personal
knowledge, a suitable mise-en-scene wherein to further develop those theories of hereditary
influence which had already attracted his attention while he was writing Madeleine Ferat. The scheme
was further attractive in as much as it lent itself readily to the system of treatment to which
he had applied the term naturalisme, to distinguish it from the crudities
of the realistic school.

The scientific tendency of the period was to rely not on previously accepted propositions,
but on observation and experience, or on facts and documents. To Zola the voice of science
conveyed the word of ultimate truth, and with desperate earnestness he set out to apply its methods
to literary production. His position was that the novelist is, like the scientist, an observer
and an experimentalist combined. The observer, he says, gives the facts as he has observed them, fixes
the starting-point, lays the solid ground on which his characters are to walk and his phenomena
to develop. Then the experimentalist appears and starts the experiment, that is to say, he
makes the personages in a particular story move, in order to show that the succession of events
will be just what the determinism of phenomena together with study demand that they should be.
The author must abstain from comment, never show his own personality,
and never turn to the reader for sympathy; he must, as Mr. Andrew
Lang has observed, be as cold as a vivisectionist at a lecture.

Zola thought the application of this method would raise the position of the novel to the level of
a science, and that it would become a medium for the expression of established truths. The fallacy
of the argument has been exposed by more than one critic. It is self-evident that the "experiments"
by the novelist cannot be made on subjects apart from himself, but are made by him and in him;
so that they prove more regarding his own temperament than about what he professes to regard
as the inevitable actions of his characters. The conclusion drawn by a writer from such actions
must always be open to the retort that he invented the whole himself and that fiction is only
fiction. But to Zola in the late sixties the theory seemed unassailable
and it was upon it that he founded the whole edifice of Les Rougon-Macquart.

The considerations then that influenced Zola in beginning a series of novels connected by subject
into one gigantic whole were somewhat various. There was the example of Balzac's great Comedie
Humaine; there was the desire of working out the theories of heredity in which he had become
interested; there was the opportunity of putting into operation the system which he had termed
naturalisme; and there was also the consideration that if he could get a publisher to agree to his
proposals he would secure a certain income for a number of years. His original scheme was a series
of twelve novels to be written at the rate of two a year, and he entered into a contract with
a publisher named Lacroix, who was to pay him five hundred francs a month as an advance. M.
Lacroix would, however, only bind himself to publish four out of the twelve novels. The arrangement
could not be carried out, and at the end of three years only two volumes of the Rougon-Macquart
series had been published, while Zola found that he had become indebted to the publisher for a very
considerable sum.

The first novel of the series was begun in 1869, but was not published till the winter of 1871, delay
having occurred on account of the war with Germany. Zola was never a rapid writer, and seems to
have regulated his literary production with machinelike uniformity. As his friend and biographer
Paul Alexis writes: "Only four pages, but four pages every day, every day without exception,
the action of the drop of water always falling on the same place, and in the end wearing out
the hardest stone. It seems nothing, but in course of time chapters follow chapters, volumes follow
upon volumes, and a whole life's work sprouts, multiplies its branches, extends its foliage
like a lofty oak, destined to rise high into the air and to remain
standing in the forest of human productions."

His literary creed at the time he began the Rougon-Macquart series may be conveniently summed
up in a few words from an article which he had only a month before written in the Gaulois: "If
I kept a school of morals," he says, "I would hasten to place in the hands of my pupils Madame
Bovary or Germinie Lacerteux, persuaded that truth alone can instruct
and fortify generous souls."

In
La Fortune des Rougon, then, Zola set out to plant the roots of the great family tree which
was to occupy his attention during the next twenty years of his life. His object was to describe
the origin of the family which he had selected for dissection in his series, and to outline the various
principal characters, members of that family. Mr. Andrew Lang, writing on this subject in the
Fortnightly Review, points out that certain Arab tribes trace their descent from a female Dog,
and suggests that the Rougon-Macquart family might have claimed the same ancestry. Adelaide
Fouque came of a race of peasants who had long lived at Plassans,
a name invented by Zola to conceal the identity of Aix, the town in
Provence where his youth had been spent.

She was highly neurotic, with a tendency to epilepsy, but from the point of view of the naturalistic
novelist she offered many advantages. When a mere girl she married a man named Rougon, who
died soon afterwards, leaving her with a son named Pierre, from whom descended the legitimate
branch of the family. Then followed a liaison with a drunken smuggler named Macquart, as a result
of which two children were born, the Macquarts. Adelaide's original neurosis had by this time
become more pronounced, and she ultimately became insane. Pierre married and had five children,
but his financial affairs had not prospered, though by underhand methods he had contrived to
get possession of his mother's property, to the exclusion of her other children. Then came the
Coup d'Etat of 1851, and Pierre, quick to seize his opportunity, rendered such services to
the Bonapartist party as to lay the foundation of the family fortune, a foundation which was,
however, cemented with treachery and blood. It was with these two families, then, both descended
from a common ancestress, and sometimes subsequently united by intermarriage, that the whole
series of novels was to deal. They do not form an edifying group, these Rougon-Macquarts, but
Zola, who had based his whole theory of the experimental novel upon the analogy of medical
research, was not on the outlook for healthy subjects; he wanted social sores to probe. This is
a fact much too often overlooked by readers of detached parts of the series, for it should always be kept
in mind that the whole was written with the express purpose of laying bare all the social
evils of one of the most corrupt periods in recent history, in the belief that through publicity
might come regeneration. Zola was all along a reformer as well as a novelist, and his zeal was
shown in many a bitter newspaper controversy. It has been urged against him that there were plenty
of virtuous people about whom he could have written, but these critics appear to forget that he
was in a sense a propagandist, and that it was not his metier to convert persons already in the
odour of sanctity.

La Fortune des Rougon was not particularly successful on its publication, but in view of the fact
that the war with Germany was barely concluded no surprise need be experienced. Zola's financial
position was, however, by the arrangement with his publisher now more secure, and he felt justified
in marrying. This he did, and settled down into the quiet bourgeois existence in which his life
was spent.

The next book was La Curee, a study of the mushroom society of the Second Empire. The subject-- the
story of Phaedra adapted to modern environment-- is unpleasant and the treatment is daring; but despite
a slight succes de scandale, its reception by the public was no more favorable than that of La
Fortune des Rougon.

La Curee was followed by Le Ventre de Paris, which reached a second edition. It contained some
excellent descriptive writing, but was severely attacked by certain critics, who denounced it
as the apotheosis of gluttony, while they resented the transference of a pork butcher's shop
to literature and took particular exceptions to a certain "symphony
of cheeses."

Next came La Conquete de Plassans, an excellent story, to be followed by La Faute de l'Abbe Mouret,
one of Zola's most romantic books, and the first to attain any considerable success. He next
wrote Son Excellence Eugene Rougon, in which he dealt with the political side of the Second
Empire and sketched the life of the Imperial Court at Compiegne. For this task he was not particularly
well equipped, and the book was only moderately successful. Then came L'Assommoir, and with it fame
and fortune for the writer. It is a terrible story of working-class life in Paris, a study of the ravages
wrought by drink. Again to quote Mr. Andrew Lang, "It is a dreadful but not an immoral book. It
is the most powerful temperance tract that ever was written. As M. Zola saw much of the life of the
poor in his early years, as he once lived, when a boy, in one of the huge lodging-houses he
describes, one may fear that L'Assommoir is a not untruthful picture of the lives of many men
and women in Paris."

In order to heighten the effect, Zola deliberately wrote the whole of L'Assommoir in the argot of
the streets, sparing nothing of its coarseness and nothing of its force. For this alone he was attacked
by many critics, and from its publication onwards an unexampled controversy arose regarding
the author and his methods. Looking backwards it is difficult to see why such an outcry should
have arisen about such a masterpiece of literature, but water has flowed beneath many bridges
since 1877, and, largely by the influence of Zola's own work, the limits of convention have
been widely extended. At the time, however, the work was savagely attacked, and to the author
the basest motives were assigned, while libels on his own personal
character were freely circulated.

Zola replied to these attacks in a manner so calm and so convincing that quotation may be permitted.
"It would be well," he said, "to read my novels, to understand them, to see them clearly in their
entirety, before bringing forward the ready-made opinions, ridiculous and odious, which are circulated
concerning myself and my works. Ah! if people only knew how my friends laugh at the appalling
legend which amuses the crowd! If they only knew how the blood-thirsty wretch, the formidable
novelist, is simply a respectable bourgeois, a man devoted to study and to art, living quietly
in his corner, whose sole ambition is to leave as large and living a work as he can. I contradict
no reports, I work on, and I rely on time, and on the good faith of the public, to discover
me at last under the accumulation of nonsense that has been heaped upon me." This statement
is absolutely in accordance with fact, and when it is realized that the writer of the Rougon-Macquart
novels was merely a hard-working, earnest man, filled with a determination to complete the
vast task which he had planned, and not to be turned from his ideas by praise or blame, it will
go far to promote a better understanding of his aims and methods. It is necessary too, as has
already been said, that the various novels forming the Rougon-Macquart series be considered not as separate
entities, but as chapters of one vast whole.

L'Assommoir was an immediate success with the public, and the sales were unusually large for the
time, while now (1912) they amount to one hundred and sixty-two thousand copies in the original
French alone.

In 1878 Zola published Une Page d'Amour, the next volume of the series, a simple love story
containing some very beautiful and romantic descriptions of Paris. Then followed Nana, to
which L'Assommoir was the prelude. Nana dealt with the vast demimonde of Paris, and while it was
his greatest popular success, was in every sense his worst book. Of no subject on which he wrote
was Zola more ignorant than of this, and the result is a laboured collection of scandals acquired
at second-hand. Mr. Arthur Symons, in his Studies in Prose and Verse, recounts how an English
paper once reported an interview in which the author of Nana, indiscreetly questioned as to the
amount of personal observation he had put into the book, replied that he had once lunched with
an actress of the Varietes. "The reply was generally taken for a joke," says Mr. Symons, "but the
lunch was a reality, and it was assuredly a rare experience in the life of a solitary diligence
to which we owe so many impersonal studies in life." The sales of the book were, however, enormous,
and Zola's financial position was now assured.

Publication of the Rougon-Macquart series went steadily on. Pot-Bouille a story of middle-class
life, was followed by its sequel Au Bonheur des Dames, a study of life in one of the great emporiums
which were beginning to crush out the small shopkeepers of Paris. La Joie de Vivre, that drab
story of hypochondria and self-sacrifice, was succeeded by Germinal, the greatest, if not the
only really great, novel of labour that has ever been written in any language. After Germinal
came L'Oeuvre, which deals with art life in Paris, and is in part an autobiography of the author.
We now come to La Terre around which the greatest controversy has raged. In parts the book is Shakespearian
in its strength and insight, but it has to be admitted at once that the artistic quality of
the work has been destroyed in large measure by the gratuitous coarseness which the author has
thought necessary to put into it. Even allowing for the fact that the subject is the brutishness
and animality of French peasant life, and admitting that the picture drawn may be a true one,
the effect had been lessened by the fact that nothing has been left to the imagination. On the
other hand there has, since Shakespeare, been nothing so fine as the treatment of Pere Fouan, that
peasant King Lear, by his ungrateful family. It has been urged that Zola overdid the horrors
of the situation and that no parent would have been so treated by his children. By a singular
chance a complete answer to this objection may be found in a paragraph which appeared in the
Daily Mail of 18th April, 1911. A few days before, a peasant woman in France had entered her
father's bedroom and struck him nine times on the head with an axe, afterwards going home to bed.
The reason for the crime was that the old man two years previously had divided his property
between his two daughters on condition that they paid him a monthly allowance. His elder daughter
was always in arrear with her share of the pension, and, after constant altercations between
father and daughter, the latter extinguished her liability in the manner indicated. Now this tragedy in
real life is the actual plot of La Terre, which was written twenty-four
years before it occurred.

In
accordance with the author's usual plan, whereby a heavy book was
followed by a light one, La Terre was succeeded by Le Reve, a work
at the other extreme of the literary gamut.

As La Terre is of the earth, earthy, so is Le Reve spiritual and idyllic, the work of a man
enamoured of the refined and the beautiful. It has indeed been described as the most beautiful
work written in France during the whole of the nineteenth century.

La Bete Humaine, the next of the series, is a work of a different class, and is to the English reader
the most fascinating of all Zola's novels. It deals with human passions in their elemental forms,
with a background of constant interest in the railway life of Western France. The motives are always
obvious and strong, a criticism which can by no means be invariably
applied to French fiction.

Next appeared L'Argent, which is the sequel to La Curee and deals with financial scandals.
It was inspired by the failure of the Union Generale Bank a few years before, and is a powerful
indictment of the law affecting joint-stock companies. To L'Argent there succeeded La Debacle,
that prose epic of modern war, more complete and coherent than even the best of Tolstoi. And to
end all came Le Docteur Pascal, winding up the series on a note of
pure romance.

Regarded as a literary tour de force the work is only comparable to the Comedie Humaine. It occupied
nearly twenty-five years in writing, consists of twenty volumes containing over twelve hundred
characters, and a number of words estimated by Mr. E. A. Vizetelly
at two million five hundred thousand.

There can be little doubt that
Zola's best work was expended on the Rougon-Macquart series. With
its conclusion his zeal as a reformer began to outrun his judgment
as an artist, and his later books partake more of the nature of active
propaganda than of works of fiction. Politics had begun to occupy
his attention, and from 1896 onwards he increasingly interested himself
in the Jewish question which culminated in the Dreyfus case. His sense
of justice, always keen, was outraged by the action of the authorities
and on 13th January, 1898, he published his famous letter, beginning
with the words J'accuse, a letter which altered the whole course of
events in France. It is difficult now to realize the effect of Zola's
action in this matter; he was attacked with a virulence almost unexampled,
a virulence which followed him beyond the grave. Four years later,
on the day after his death, the Paris correspondent of The Times wrote:
"It is evident the passions of two or three years ago are still alive.


To return to what you say of the abominations and horrors of Greek and Roman slavery:--I should
be doing you great injustice, were I to convey the idea that you approve of them. It is admitted
that you disapprove of them; and, it is also admitted, that no responsibility for them rests
on the relation of slaveholder and slave, if that relation have, as you labor to show, the
stamp of Divine approbation. You say, that slavery, like marriage, is an institution sanctioned
by the New Testament; and that, therefore, neither for the evils which attend it, nor for any
other cause, is it to be argued against. This is sound reasoning, on your part; and, if your
premises are correct, there is no resisting your deduction. We are, in that case, not only
not to complain of the institution of slavery, but we are to be thankful for it. Considering,
however, that the whole fabric of your argument, in the principal or New Testament division
of your book, is based on the alleged fact that the New Testament approves of slavery, it seems
to me that you have contented yourself, and sought to make your readers contented, with very
slender evidences of the truth of this proposition. These evidences are, mainly--that the New
Testament does not declare slavery to be a sin: and, that the Apostles enjoin upon masters
and servants their respective duties; and this, too, in the same connexion in which they make
similar injunctions upon those who stand in the confessedly proper relations of life--the husband
and wife, the parent and child. Your other evidences, that the New Testament approves of slavery,
unimportant as they are, will not be left unnoticed.

I have attempted to show, that the omission of the New Testament to declare slavery to be a
sin, is not proof that it is not a sin. I pass on to show, that the Apostolic injunction of
duties upon masters and servants does not prove that slavery is sinless.

I have now reached another grand fallacy in your book. It is also found in Professor Hodge's
article. You, gentlemen, take the liberty to depart from our standard English translation of
the Bible, and to substitute "slaveholder" for "master"--"slave" for "servant"--and, in substance,
"emperor" for "ruler"--and "subject of an imperial government" for "subject of civil government
generally." I know that this substitution well suits your purposes: but, I know not by what
right you make it. Professor Hodge tells the abolitionists, certainly without much respect
for either their intelligence or piety, that "it will do no good (for them) to attempt to tear
the Bible to pieces." There is but too much evidence, that he himself has not entirely refrained
from the folly and crime, which he is so ready to impute to others.

I will proceed to offer some reasons for the belief, that when the Apostles enjoined on masters
and servants their respective duties, they had reference to servitude in general, and not to
any modification of it.

1st. You find passages in the New Testament, where you think despotes refers to a person who
is a slaveholder, and doulos to a person who is a slave. Admit that you are right: but this
(which seems to be your only ground for it) does not justify you in translating these words
"slaveholder" and "slave," whenever it may be advantageous to your side of the question to
have them thus translated. These words, have a great variety of meanings. For instance, there
are passages in the New Testament where despotes means "God"--Jesus Christ"--Head of a family:"
and where doulos means "a minister or agent"--a subject of a king"--a disciple or follower
of Christ." Despotes and doulos are the words used in the original of the expression: "Lord,
now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace:" doulos in that of the expressions, "servant
of Christ," and "let him be servant of all." Profane writers also use these words in various
senses. My full belief is, that these words were used in both a generic and special sense,
as is the word corn, which denotes bread-stuffs in general, and also a particular kind of them;
as is the word meat, the meaning of which is, sometimes, confined to flesh that is eaten, and,
at other times, as is frequently the case in the Scriptures, extends to food in general; and,
as is the word servant, which is suitable, either in reference to a particular form of servitude,
or to servitude in general. There is a passage in the second chapter of Acts, which is, of
itself, perhaps, sufficient to convince an unbiased mind, that the Apostles used the word doulos
in a, generic, as well as in a special sense. Doulos and doule are the words in the phrase:
"And on my servants and on my handmaidens." A reference to the prophecy as it stands; in Joel
2: 28, 29, makes it more obvious, that persons in servitude are referred to under the words
doulos and doule; and, that the predicted blessing was to be shed upon persons of all ages,
classes, and conditions--upon old men and young men--upon sons and daughters--and upon man-servants
and maid-servants. But, under the interpretation of those, who, like Professor Hodge and yourself,
confine the meaning of doulos and doule to a species of servants, the prophecy would have reference
to persons of all ages, classes, and conditions--excepting certain descriptions of servants.
Under this interpretation, we are brought to the absurd conclusion, that the spirit is to be
poured out upon the master and his slaves--but not upon his hired servants.

I trust that enough has been said, under this my first head, to show that the various senses
in which the words despotes and doulos are employed, justify me in taking the position, that
whenever we meet with them, we are to determine, from the nature of the case, and from the
connexion in which they are used, whether they refer to servitude in general, or to a species
of it.

2d. The confinement of the meaning of the words in question supposes, what neither religion
nor common sense allows us to suppose, that slaveholders and slaves, despots and those in subjection
to them, were such especial favorites of the Apostles, as to obtain from them specific instructions
in respect to their relative duties, whilst all other masters and servants, and all other rulers
and subjects, throughout all future time, were left unprovided with such instructions. According
to this supposition, when slavery and despotism shall, agreeably to Professor Hodge's expectations,
have entirely ceased, there will be not one master nor servant, not one ruler nor subject in
the whole earth, to fall, as such, under the Apostolic injunctions.

3d. You admit that there were hirelings, in a community of primitive believers; and I admit,
for the moment, that there were slaves in it. Now, under my interpretation of the Apostolic
injunction, all husbands, all wives, all parents, all children, and all servants, in this community,
are told their respective duties: but, under yours, these duties are enjoined on all husbands,
all wives, all parents, all children, and a part of the servants. May we not reasonably complain
of your interpretation, that it violates analogy?

Imagine the scene, in which a father, in the Apostolic age, assembles his family to listen
to a letter from the glowing Peter, or "such an one as Paul the aged." The letter contains
instructions respecting the relative duties of life. The venerable pair, who stand in the conjugal
and parental relations, receive, with calm thankfulness, what is addressed to themselves;--the
bright-eyed little ones are eager to know what the Apostle says to children--a poor slave blesses
God for his portion of the Apostolic counsel;--and the scene would be one of unmingled joy,
if the writer had but addressed hired servants, as well as slaves. One of the group goes away
to weep, because the Apostle had remembered the necessities of all other classes of men, and
forgotten those of the hireling. Sir, do you believe that the Apostle was guilty of such an
omission? I rejoice that my side of the question between us, does not call for the belief of
what is so improbable and unnatural--and, withal, so dishonoring to the memory of the Apostle.

4th. Another reason for believing, that the Apostles intended no such limitation as that which
you impose upon their words, is, that their injunctions are as applicable to the other classes
of persons occupying these relations, as they are to the particular class to which you confine
them. The hired servant, as well as the slave, needs to be admonished of the sins of "eye service"
and "purloining;" and the master of voluntary, as well as involuntary servants, needs to be
admonished to "give that which is just and equal." The ruler in a republic, or, in a limited
monarchy, as well as the despot, requires to be reminded, that he is to be "a minister of God
for good." So the subject of one kind of civil government, as well as that of another, needs
to be told to be "subject unto the higher powers."

I need not extend my remarks to prove, that despotes and doulos are, in the case before us,
to be taken in their comprehensive sense of master and servant: and, clearly, therefore, the
abolitionist is not guilty of violating your rule, "not to interfere with a civil relation
(in another place, you say, 'any of the existing relations of life') for which, and to regulate
which, either Christ or his Apostles have prescribed regulations." He believes, as fully as
yourself, that the relation of master and servant is approved of God. It is the slavery modification
of it--the slaveholder's abuse and perversion of the relation, in reducing the servant to a
chattel--which, he believes, is not approved of God.

For the sake of the argument, I will admit, that the slave alone, of all classes of servants,
was favored with specific instructions from the Apostles: and then, how should we account for
the selection? In no other way, can I conceive, than, on the ground, that his lot is so peculiarly
hard--so much harder than that of persons under other forms of servitude--that he needs, whilst
they do not, Apostolic counsel and advice to keep him just, and patient, and submissive. Let
me be spared from the sin of reducing a brother man to such a lot. Your doctrine, therefore,
that the Apostles addressed slaves only, and not servants in general, would not, were its correctness
admitted, lift you out of all the difficulties in your argument.

Again, does it necessarily follow from this admission, that the relation of slaveholder and
slave is sinless? Was the despotism of the Roman government sinless? I do not ask whether the
abuses of civil government, in that instance, were sinless. But, I ask, was a government, despotic
in its constitution, depriving all its subjects of political power, and extending absolute
control over their property and persons--was such a government, independently of the consideration
of its abuses, (if indeed we may speak of the abuses of what is in itself an abuse,) sinless?
I am aware, that Prof. Hodge says, that it was so: and, when he classes despotism and slavery
with adiaphora, "things indifferent;" and allows no more moral character to them than to a
table or a broomstick, I trust no good man envies his optics. May I not hope that you, Mr.
Smylie, perceive a difference between despotism and an "indifferent thing." May I not hope,
that you will, both as a Republican and a Christian, take the ground, that despotism has a
moral character, and a bad one? When our fathers prayed, and toiled, and bled, to obtain for
themselves and their children the right of self-government, and to effect their liberation
from a power, which, in the extent and rigor of its despotism, is no more to be compared to
the Roman government, than the "little finger" to the "loins," I doubt not, that they felt
that despotism had a moral, and a very bad moral character. And so would Prof. Hodge have felt,
had he stood by their side, instead of being one of their ungrateful sons. I say ungrateful--for,
who more so, than he who publishes doctrines that disparage the holy cause in which they were
embarked, and exhibits them, as contending for straws, rather than for principles? Tell me,
how long will this Republic endure after our people shall have imbibed the doctrine, that the
nature of civil government is an indifferent thing: and that the poet was right when he said,

  "For forms of government let fools contest?"

This, however, is but one of many doctrines of ruinous tendency to the cause of civil liberty,
advanced by pro-slavery writers to sustain their system of oppression.

It would surely be superfluous to go into proofs, that the Roman government was vicious and
wicked in its constitution and nature. Nevertheless, the Apostle enjoined submission to it,
and taught its subjects how to demean themselves under it. Here, then, we have an instance,
in which we cannot argue the sinlessness of a relation, from the fact of Apostolic injunctions
on those standing in it. Take another instance. The Chaldeans went to a foreign land, and enslaved
its people--as members of your guilty partnership have done for some of the slaves you now
own, and for the ancestors of others. And God destroyed the Chaldeans expressly "for all their
evil that they had done in Zion." But, wicked as they were, for having instituted this relation
between themselves and the Jews, God, nevertheless, tells the Jews to submit to it. He tells
them, "Serve the King of Babylon." He even says, "seek the peace of the city, whither I have
caused you to be carried away captives, and pray unto the Lord for it; for, in the peace thereof,
shall ye have peace." Here then, we have another instance, in addition to that of the Roman
despot and his subjects, in which the Holy Spirit prescribed regulations for wicked relations.
You will, at least, allow, that the relation established by the Chaldeans between themselves
and the captive Jews, was wicked. But, you will perhaps say, that this is not a relation coming
within the contemplation of your rule. Your rule speaks of a civil relation, and also of the
existing relations of life. As a result of the agitation, he was obliged to leave France and take refuge
in England, till such time as a change of circumstances enabled him
to return.

On 29th September, 1902, the world was startled to learn that Emile Zola had been found dead
in his bedroom, suffocated by the fumes of a stove, and that his wife had narrowly escaped
dying with him. A life of incessant literary labour had been quenched.

The reputation of Zola has suffered, it is to be feared, in no small degree from the indiscretions
of his friends. In England he was introduced to the notice of the reading public by Mr. Henry Vizetelly,
who between 1884 and 1889 published a number of translations of his novels. The last of these
was The Soil, a translation of La Terre, which aroused such an outcry that a prosecution followed,
and Mr. Vizetelly was sentenced to three months'imprisonment. Without raising any question
as to the propriety of this prosecution, it is difficult to avoid pointing out that Mr. Vizetelly
was singularly ill advised not to have taken into account the essential
differences between English and French literature, and not have seen
that the publication of this particular book in its entirety was an
impossibility under existing conditions.

It is regrettable also that Mr. Vizetelly, who though a gentleman of the highest character, was no
doubt anxious to make the most possible out of his venture, did not duly appreciate that the
word "Realistic," which was blazoned on the covers of the various books issued by him, was
in the early eighties invariably interpreted as meaning pornographic. Presumably nothing was
further from Mr. Vizetelly's wish-- his defence at the trial was that the books were literature
of the highest kind-- but it is unquestionable that the format was such as to give the impression indicated,
an impression deepened by the extremely Gallic freedom of the illustrations. There can be little
doubt that had the works been issued in an unobtrusive form, without illustrations, they would
have attracted less attention of the undesirable kind which they afterwards received. The use
of the term "Realistic" was the more remarkable as Zola had previously invented the word Naturalisme
to distinguish his work from that of the Realistic school. But if Zola's reputation in England
suffered in this way, it is right to refer here to the debt of gratitude to Mr. E. A. Vizetelly
under which the English public now lies. Some time after the prosecution of his father, Mr.
Vizetelly began to publish, through Messrs. Chatto& Windus, a series of versions of Zola's
works. The translations were admirably done, and while it was found necessary to make certain omissions,
the task was so skilfully accomplished that in many cases actual
improvement has resulted.

These versions are at present the chief translations of Zola's works in circulation in this
country; but while their number has been added to from time to time,
it has not been found possible to include the whole of the Rougon-Macquart
series.

In 1894-5, however, the Lutetian Society issued to its members a literal and unabridged translation
of six of the novels, made by writers of such eminence as Havelock
Ellis, Arthur Symons, and Ernest Dowson.

These are the only translations of these works which are of any value to the student, but they
are unfortunately almost unobtainable, as the entire edition was restricted to three hundred
copies on hand-made paper and ten on Japanese vellum.

A charge not unfrequently brought against Zola is that he was a somewhat ignorant person, who required
to get up from textbooks every subject upon which he wrote. Now there seems to be little doubt
that it was in the first instance due to the indiscretion of his biographer, M. Paul Alexis,
that this charge has arisen. Impressed by the vast industry of his friend, M. Alexis said so
much about "research" and "documents" that less friendly critics
seized the opportunity of exaggerating the importance of these.

Every novelist of any consequence has found it necessary to "cram" his subjects, but says little
about the fact. James Payn, for instance, could not have written his admirable descriptions of
China in By Proxy without much reading of many books, and Mr. Rudyard Kipling has not been blamed
for studying the technicalities of engineering before he wrote The Ship that found Herself.
It is open to question even whether Mr. Robert Hichens acquired his intimate knowledge of
the conditions of life in Southern Europe and Northern Africa entirely without the assistance
of Herr Baedeker. Zola undoubtedly studied his subjects, but far too much has been made of the necessity
for his doing so. His equipment for the task he undertook was not less complete than that
of many another novelist, and, like Dickens, he studied life in that school of a "stony-hearted
stepmother," the streets of a great city.

Zola's literary method may be described as a piling up of detail upon
detail till there is attained an effect portentous, overwhelming.

He lacked, however, a sense of proportion; he became so carried away by his visions of human
depravity, that his characters developed powers of wickedness beyond mortal strength; he lay
under an obsession regarding the iniquities of mankind. In dealing with this it was unfortunately
his method to leave nothing to the imagination, and herein lies the most serious blemish on
his work. There is undoubtedly much coarseness in some of his books, and the regrettable feature
is that it is not only unnecessary, but in some cases actually lessens the effect at which
he aimed. It is doubtful whether he was possessed of any sense of humour. Mr. Andrew Lang says that
his lack of it was absolute, a darkness that can be felt; Mr. R. H. Sherrard, on the other hand,
indicates that his work "teems with quiet fun." On the whole, truth seems to lie with Mr. Lang. M. and
Madame Charles Badeuil, in La Terre may seem Dickensian to an English reader, but there is
always the Gallic point of view to be reckoned with, and it is doubtful if Zola did not regard
these persons merely as types of a virtuous bourgeoisie.

It was in the treatment of crowds in motion that Zola chiefly excelled; there is nothing finer in
literature than the march of the strikers in Germinal or the charges of the troops in La Debacle.
Contrast him with such a master of prose as George Meredith, and
we see how immensely strong the battle scenes in La Debacle are when
compared with those in Vittoria; it is here that his method of piling
detail on detail and horror on horror is most effectual.

"To make his characters swarm," said Mr. Henry James in a critical article in the Atlantic Monthly
(August, 1903), "was the task he set himself very nearly from the first, that was the secret he
triumphantly mastered."

"Naturalism" as a school had a comparatively brief existence-- Zola himself departed largely from
its principles after the conclusion of the Rougon-Macquart series-- but its effects have been
far-reaching on the literature of many countries. In England the limits of literary convention
have been extended, and pathways have been opened up along which later writers have not hesitated
to travel, even while denying the influence of the craftsman who had cleared the way. It is
safe to say that had L'Assommoir never been written there would have been no Jude the Obscure, and
the same remark applies to much of the best modern fiction. In America, Frank Norris, an able
writer who unfortunately died before the full fruition of his genius had obviously accepted Zola
as his master, and the same influence is also apparent in the work of George Douglas, a brilliant
young Scotsman whose premature death left only one book, The House
with the Green Shutters, as an indication of what might have sprung
from the methods of modified naturalism.

M. Edouard Rod, an able critic, writing in the Contemporary Review (1902), pointed out that
the influence of Zola has transformed novel writing in Italy, and that its effect in Germany has been
not less pronounced. The virtue of this influence on German letters was undoubtedly great. It
made an end of sentimentality, it shook literature out of the sleepy rut into which it had fallen
and forced it to face universal problems.

One must regret for his own sake that Zola was unable to avoid offending those prejudices which
were so powerful in his time. The novelist who adopts the method of the surgeon finds it necessary
to expose many painful sores, and is open to the taunt that he finds pleasure in the task. On no one
did this personal obloquy fall more hardly than on Zola, and never with less reason. It may be
that he accumulated unseemly details and risky situations too readily;
but he was an earnest man with a definite aim in view, and had formulated
for himself a system which he allowed to work itself out with relentless
fatality.

The unredeemed baseness and profligacy of the period with which he had to deal must also be
borne in mind. As to his personal character, it has been fitly described by M. Anatole France,
himself a distinguished novelist. Zola, said he, "had the candour and sincerity of great souls.
He was profoundly moral. He has depicted vice with a rough and vigorous hand. His apparent pessimism
ill conceals a real optimism, a persistent faith in the progress of intelligence and justice.
In his romances, which are social studies, he attacks with vigorous hatred an idle, frivolous
society, a base and noxious aristocracy. He combated social evil wherever he encountered it. His
work is comparable only in greatness with that of Tolstoi. At the two extremities of European
thought the lyre has raised two vast cities. Both are generous and pacific; but whereas Tolstoi's
is the city of resignation, Zola's is the city of work."

It is still too soon to form an opinion as to the permanent value of Zola's writings, for posterity
has set aside many well-considered judgments; but their influence has been, and will continue
to be, far reaching. They have opened up new avenues in literature, and have made possible
to others much that was formerly unattainable.

THE ROUGON-MACQUART GENEALOGICAL TREE.

First Generation: 1.

ADELAIDE FOUQUE, called AUNT DIDE, born in 1768, married in 1786
to Rougon, a placid, lubberly gardener; bears him a son in 1787; loses
her husband in 1788; takes in 1789 a lover, Macquart, a smuggler,
addicted to drink and half crazed; bears him a son in 1789, and a
daughter in 1791; goes mad, and is sent to the Asylum of Les Tulettes
in 1851; dies there of cerebral congestion in 1873 at 105 years of
age.

Supplies the original neurosis. Second Generation: 2. PIERRE ROUGON, born in 1787, married in 1810 to Felicite
Puech, an intelligent, active and healthy woman; has five children by her; dies in 1870, on the
morrow of Sedan, from cerebral congestion due to overfeeding. An equilibrious blending of characteristics,
the moral average of his father and mother, resembles them physically. An oil merchant, afterwards
receiver of taxes. 3.

ANTOINE MACQUART, born in 1789; a soldier in 1809; married in 1829
to a market dealer, Josephine Gavaudan, a vigorous, industrious, but
intemperate woman; has three children by her; loses her in 1851; dies
himself in 1873 from spontaneous combustion, brought about by alcoholism.

A fusion of characteristics. Moral prepotency of and physical likeness to his father. A soldier, then
a basket-maker, afterwards lives idle on his income. 4. URSULE MACQUART, born in 1791; married
in 1810 to a journeyman-hatter, Mouret, a healthy man with a well-balanced mind. Bears him three
children, dies of consumption in 1840. An adjunction of characteristics,
her mother predominating morally and physically.

Third Generation: 5. EUGENE ROUGON, born in 1811, married in 1857 to Veronique Beulin d'Orcheres, by
whom he has no children. A fusion of characteristics. Prepotency and ambition of his mother. Physical
likeness to his father. A politician, at one time Cabinet Minister. Still
alive in Paris, a deputy.

6. PASCAL ROUGON, born in 1813, never marries, has a posthumous child by Clotilde Rougon in 1874;
dies of heart disease on November 7, 1873.

Innateness, a combination in which the physical and moral characteristics of the parents are so
blended that nothing of them appears manifest in the offspring. A doctor. 7. ARISTIDE ROUGON, alias
SACCARD, born in 1815, married in 1836 to Angele Sicardot, the calm,
dreamy-minded daughter of an officer; has by her a son in 1840, a
daughter in 1847; loses his wife in 1854; has a natural son in 1853
by a work-girl, Rosalie Chavaille, counting consumptives and epileptics
among her forerunners; remarried in 1855 to Renee Beraud Du Chatel,
who dies childless in 1864.

An adjunction of characteristics, moral prepotency of his father,
physical likeness to his mother.

Her ambition, modified by his father's appetites. A clerk, then a speculator. Still alive in Paris,
directing a newspaper. 8. SIDONIE ROUGON, born in 1818, married at Plassans in 1838 to a solicitor's
clerk, who dies in Paris in 1850. Has, by a stranger, in 1851, a
daughter Angelique, whom she places in the foundling asylum.

Prepotency of her father, physical likeness to her mother. A commission agent and procuress,
dabbling in every shady calling; but eventually becomes very austere. Still alive in Paris, treasurer
to the OEuvre du Sacrement. 9. MARTHE ROUGON, born in 1820, married in 1840 to her cousin Francois
Mouret, bears him three children, dies in 1864 from a nervous disease.

Reverting heredity, skipping one generation. Hysteria. Moral and physical likeness to Adelaide Fouque. Resembles
her husband. 10. FRANCOIS MOURET, born in 1817, married in 1840 to Marthe Rougon, who bears him
three children; dies mad in 1864 in a conflagration kindled by himself. Prepotency of his father.
Physical likeness to his mother. Resembles his wife. At first a wine-merchant, then lives on his
income. 11. HELENE MOURET, born in 1824, married in 1841 to Grandjean, a puny man, inclined to phthisis,
who dies in 1853; has a daughter by him in 1842; remarried in 1857 to M. Rambaud, by whom
she has no children.

Innateness as in Pascal Rougon's case. Still living, at Marseilles, in retirement with her second
husband. 12. SILVERE MOURET, born in 1834; shot dead by a gendarme in 1851. Prepotency of his mother.
Innateness with regard to physical resemblance. 13. LISA MACQUART, born in 1827, married in 1852 to
Quenu, a healthy man with a well-balanced mind. Bears him a daughter, dies in 1863 from decomposition
of the blood.

Prepotency of and physical likeness to her mother. Keeps a large pork-butcher's shop at the Paris
markets. 14. GERVAISE MACQUART, born in 1828, has three sons by her lover Lantier, who counts paralytics
among his ancestors; is taken to Paris, and there deserted by him;
is married in 1852 to a workman, Coupeau, who comes of an alcoholic
stock; has a daughter by him; dies of misery and drink in 1869.

Prepotency of her father. Conceived in drunkenness. Is lame. A washerwoman. 15. JEAN MACQUART, born
in 1831, married in 1867 to Francoise Mouche, who dies childless in 1870; remarried in 1871
to Melanie Vial, a sturdy, healthy peasant-girl, by whom he has a
son, and who is again enceinte.

Innateness,
as with Pascal and Helene. First a peasant, then a soldier, then peasant again. Still alive at Valqueyras.
Fourth Generation: 16. MAXIME ROUGON, alias SACCARD, born in 1840, has a son in 1857 by a servant,
Justine Megot, the chlorotic daughter of drunken parents; married in 1863 to Louise de Mareuil,
who dies childless the same year; succumbs to ataxia in 1873.

A dissemination of characteristics. Moral prepotency of his father, physical likeness to his
mother. Idle, inclined to spending unearned money.

17. CLOTILDE ROUGON, alias SACCARD, born in 1847, has a son by Pascal Rougon in 1874. Prepotency of
her mother. Reverting heredity, the moral and physical characteristics of her maternal grandfather
preponderant. Still alive at Plassans. 18. VICTOR ROUGON, alias SACCARD,
born in 1853.

Adjunction of characteristics.

Physical resemblance to his father. Has disappeared. 19. ANGELIQUE ROUGON, born in 1851, married
in 1869 to Felicien de Hautecoeur, and dies the same day of a complaint never determined. Innateness:
no resemblance to her mother or forerunners on the maternal side. No information as to her father.
20.

OCTAVE MOURET, born in 1840, married in 1865 to Madame Hedouin, who dies the same year; remarried
in 1869 to Denise Baudu, a healthy girl with a well-balanced mind, by whom he has a boy and
a girl, still too young to be classified. Prepotency of his father. Physical resemblance to his
uncle, Eugene Rougon. Indirect heredity.

Establishes and directs "The Ladies'Paradise."

Still alive in Paris. 21. SERGE MOURET, born in 1841. A dissemination of characteristics; moral
and physical resemblance to his mother. Has his father's brain, influenced by the diseased condition
of his mother. Heredity of a form of neurosis developing into mysticism. A priest, still alive
at St. Eutrope. 22. DESIREE MOURET, born in 1844. Prepotency of and
physical likeness to her mother.

Heredity of a form of neurosis developing into idiocy. Still alive at
St. Eutrope with her brother Serge.

23. JEANNE GRANDJEAN, born in 1842, dies of a nervous complaint in 1855. Reverting heredity, skipping
two generations. Physical and moral resemblance to Adelaide Fouque.

24. Pauline Quenu, born in 1852, never marries. An equilibrious blending of characteristics. Moral and
physical resemblance to her father and mother.

An example of honesty. Still alive at Bonneville. 25. CLAUDE LANTIER, born in 1842, married
in 1865 to Caroline Hallegrain, whose father succumbed to paraplegia;
has by her, prior to marriage, a son, Jacques, who dies in 1869;
hangs himself in 1870.

A fusion of characteristics.

Moral prepotency of and physical resemblance to his mother. Heredity of a form of neurosis developing
into genius. A painter. 26. JACQUES LANTIER, born in 1844, killed in an accident in 1870. Prepotency
of his mother. Physical likeness to his father. Heredity of alcoholism, developing into homicidal
mania. An example of crime. An engine-driver. 27. ETIENNE LANTIER, born in 1846. A dissemination
of characteristics.

Physical resemblance, first to his mother, afterwards to his father. A miner. Still alive, transported
to Noumea, there married, with children, it is said, who cannot, however, be classified. 28. ANNA COUPEAU,
alias NANA, born in 1852, gives birth to a child, Louis, in 1867,
loses him in 1870, dies herself of small-pox a few days later.

A blending of characteristics. Moral prepotency of her father. Physical resemblance to her mother's
first lover, Lantier. Heredity of alcoholism developing into mental
and physical perversion.

An
example of vice. Fifth Generation: 29. CHARLES ROUGON, alias SACCARD, born in 1857, dies of hemorrhage
in 1873. The last outcome of an exhausted stock. 30.

JACQUES LOUIS LANTIER, born in 1860, a case of hydrocephalus, dies in 1869. Prepotency of his mother,
whom he physically resembles. 31. LOUIS COUPEAU, called LOUISET,
born in 1867, dies of small-pox in 1870.

Prepotency
of his mother, whom he physically resembles. 32. THE UNKNOWN CHILD will be born in 1874. What
will it be? SYNOPSES OF THE PLOTS OF THE ROUGON-MACQUART NOVELS La
Fortune des Rougon.

In the preface to this novel Zola explains his theories of heredity, and the work itself forms the introductory
chapter to that great series which deals with the life history of
a family and its descendants during the second empire.

The common ancestress of the Rougons and the Macquarts was Adelaide Fouque, a girl who from
youth had been subject to nervous seizures. From her father she inherited a small farm, and
at the age of eighteen married one of her own labourers, a man named
Rougon, who died fifteen months afterwards, leaving her with one son,
named Pierre.

Shortly after her husband's death she fell completely under the influence of Macquart, a drunken
smuggler and poacher, by whom in course of time she had a son named Antoine and a daughter named
Ursule. She became more and more subject to cataleptic attacks, until eventually
her mind was completely unhinged. Pierre Rougon, her legitimate son,
was a man of strong will inherited from his father, and he early saw
that his mother's property was being squandered by the Macquarts.
By means approximating to fraud he induced his mother, who was then
facile, to sell her property and hand over the proceeds to him. Soon after
he married Felicite Peuch, a woman of great shrewdness and keen intelligence,
by whom he had three sons (Eugene, Aristide, and Pascal) and two daughters
(Marthe and Sidonie).

Pierre Rougon was not particularly prosperous, but his eldest son,
Eugene, went to Paris and became mixed up in the Bonapartist plots
which led to the Coup d'Etat of 1851.

He was consequently able
to give his parents early information as to the probable course of
events, and the result of their action was to lay the foundations
of the family fortune.

The scene of the book is the Provencal town
of Plassans, and the tragic events attending the rising of the populace
against the Coup d'Etat are told with accuracy and knowledge.

There is a charming love idyll between
Silvere Mouret, a son of Ursule Macquart, and a young girl named Miette,
both of whom fall as victims in the rising which followed the Coup
d'Etat.

Mr. E. A. Vizetelly, in his introduction to
the English translation of The Conquest of Plassans (London: Chatto&
Windus), points out that almost every incident in The Fortune of the
Rougons is based upon historical fact.

"For instance," he says, "Miette had a counterpart in Madame Ferrier,
that being the real name of the young woman who, carrying the insurgents'blood-red
banner, was hailed by them as the Goddess of Liberty on their dramatic
march.

And
in like way the tragic death of Silvere, linked to another hapless
prisoner, was founded by M. Zola on an incident that followed the
rising, as recorded by an eye-witness."

Son Excellence Eugene Rougon. Will you refer me to the history of the West Indies for
proofs of the happy fruits of slavery? Not until the earth is no more, will its polluted and
bloody pages cease to testify against slavery. And, when we have come down to American slavery,
you will not even open the book which records such facts, as that its subjects are forbidden
to be joined in wedlock, and to read the Bible. No--you will not presume to look for a single
evidence of the benign influences of a system, where, by the admission of your own ecclesiastical
bodies, it has turned millions of men into heathen. I say nothing now of your beautiful and
harmless theories of slavery:--but this I say, that when you look upon slavery as it has existed,
or now exists, either amidst the darkness of Mahommedanism or the light of Christianity, you
dare not, as you hope for the Divine favor, say that it is a Heaven-descended institution;
and that, notwithstanding it is like Ezekiel's roll, "written within and without with lamentations
and mourning and wo," it, nevertheless, bears the mark of being a boon from God to man.

Having disposed of your "strong reasons" for the position, that the New Testament authorizes
slavery, I proceed to consider your remaining reasons for it.

Because it does not appear, that our Saviour and the Apostle Peter told certain centurions,
who, for the sake of the argument, I will admit were slaveholders, that slaveholding is sinful,
you argue, and most confidently too, that it is not sinful. But, it does not appear, that the
Saviour and the Apostle charged any sinful practices upon them. Then, by your logic, all their
other practices, as well as their slaveholding, were innocent, and these Roman soldiers were
literally perfect.--Again; how do you know that the Saviour and the Apostle did not tell them,
on the occasion you refer to, that they were sinners for being slaveholders? The fact, that
the Bible does not inform us that they told them so, does not prove that they did not; much
less does it prove, that they did not tell them so subsequently to their first interview with
them. And again, the admission that they did not specifically attack slavery, at any of their
interviews with the centurions, or on any other occasions whatever, would not justify the inference,
that it is sinless. I need not repeat the reasoning which makes the truth of this remark apparent.

You refer to the Saviour's declaration of the unequaled faith of one of these centurions, with
the view of making it appear that a person of so great faith could not be a great sinner. But,
how long had he exercised this, or, indeed, any Christian faith? That he was on good terms
with the Jews, and had built them a synagogue, is quite as strong evidence, that he had not,
as that he had, previously to that time, believed in Jesus:--and, if he had not, then his faith,
however strong, and his conversion, however decided, are nothing towards proving that slavery
is sinless.

It is evident, that the Apostle was sent to Cornelius for the single purpose of inculcating
the doctrine of the remission of sin, through faith in Christ.

I proceed to examine another of your arguments. From Paul's declaration to the Elders at Miletus,
"I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of God," taken in connexion with the
fact, that the Bible does not inform us that he spoke to them of slaveholding, you confidently
and exultingly infer that it is innocent. Here, again, you prove too much, and therefore, prove
nothing. It does not appear that he specified a hundredth part of their duties. If he did not
tell them to abstain from slaveholding, neither did he tell them to abstain from games and
theatres. But, his silence about slaveholding proves to your mind its sinlessness: equally
then should his silence about games and theatres satisfy you of their innocence. Two radical
errors run through a great part of your book. They are, that the Apostle gave specific instructions
concerning all duties, and that the Bible contains these instructions. But, for these errors,
your book would be far less objectionable than it is. I might, perhaps, rather say, that but
for these, you could not have made up your book.

And now, since Paul's address to the Elders has been employed by you in behalf of slavery,
allow me to try its virtue against slavery: and, if it should turn out that you are slain with
your own weapon, it will not be the first time that temerity has met with such a fate. I admit,
that the Apostle does not tell the Elders of any wrong thing which they had done; but there
are some wrong things from which he had himself abstained, and some right things which he had
himself done, of which he does tell them. He tells them, for instance, that he had not been
guilty of coveting what was another's, and also, that with his own hands he had ministered
to his own necessities and those of others: and he further tells them, that they ought to copy
his example, and labor, as he had done, "to support the weak." Think you, sir, from this language
that Paul was a slaveholder--and, that his example was such, as to keep lazy, luxurious slaveholders
in countenance? The slaveholder is guilty of coveting, not only all a man has, but even the
man himself. The slaveholder will not only not labor with his hands to supply the wants of
others, and "to support the weak;" but he makes others labor to supply his wants:--yes, makes
them labor unpaid--night and day--in storm, as well as in sunshine--under the lash--bleeding--groaning--dying--and
all this, not to minister to his actual needs, but to his luxuriousness and sensuality.

You ridicule the idea of the abolition of slavery, because it would make the slaveholder "so
poor, as to oblige him to take hold of the maul and wedge himself--he must catch, curry, and
saddle his own horse--he must black his own brogans (for he will not be able to buy boots)--his
wife must go herself to the wash-tub--take hold of the scrubbing broom, wash the pots, and
cook all that she and her rail-mauler will eat." If Paul were, as you judge he was, opposed
to the abolition of slavery, it is at least certain, from what he says of the character of
his life in his address to the Elders, that his opposition did not spring from such considerations
as array you against it. In his estimation, manual labor was honorable. In a slaveholding community,
it is degrading. It is so in your own judgment, or you would not hold up to ridicule those
humble employments, which reflect disgrace, only where the moral atmosphere is tainted by slavery.
That the pernicious influences of slavery in this respect are felt more or less, in every part
of this guilty nation, is but too true. I put it to your candor, sir, whether the obvious fact,
that slavery makes the honest labor of the hands disreputable, is not a weighty argument against
the supposition that God approves it? I put it to your candor, sir, whether the fact, which
you, at least, cannot gain-say, that slavery makes even ministers of the gospel despise the
employments of seven-eighths of the human family, and, consequently, the humble classes, who
labor in them--I put it to your candor, whether the institution, which breeds such contempt
of your fellow-men and fellow Christians, must not be offensive to Him, who commands us to
"Honor all men, and love the brotherhood?"

In another argument, you attempt to show, that Paul's letter to Philemon justifies slaveholding,
and also the apprehension and return of fugitive slaves. After having recited the Resolution
of the Chilicothe Presbytery--"that to apprehend a slave who is endeavoring to escape from
slavery, with a view to restore him to his master, is a direct violation of the Divine law,
and, when committed by a member of the church, ought to subject him to censure"--you undertake
to make your readers believe, that Paul's sending Onesimus to Philemon, is a case coming fairly
within the purview of the resolution. Let us see if it does. A man by the name of Onesimus
was converted to Christianity, under Paul's ministry at Rome. Paul learnt that he had formerly
been a servant--say a slave--of Philemon, who was a "dearly beloved" Christian: and believing
that his return to his old master would promote the cause of Christ, and beautifully exemplify
its power, he advised him to return to him. He followed the Apostle's advice and returned.
Now, from this example, you attempt to derive a justification for "a member of a Church" to
be engaged in forcibly apprehending and restoring fugitive slaves. He was appointed first president of the
Court of Paris after Rougon's return to office. Son Excellence Eugene
Rougon.

BEULIN-D'ORCHERE (VERONIQUE), a quiet, subdued woman about thirty-six years of age, who lived with
her brother and seldom went out except to attend Low Mass at Saint-Sulpice. She married Eugene
Rougon, to whom she brought a considerable fortune. Son Excellence
Eugene Rougon.

BIBI-LA-GRILLADE, the sobriquet of one of Coupeau's fellow-workmen, with whom he was on intimate
terms. He was one of the party at Coupeau's wedding with Gervaise
Macquart. L'Assommoir.

BIJARD, a drunken locksmith, who killed his wife by systematic ill-usage. On the rare occasions
when he worked, he always had a bottle of alcohol beside him, from which he took large draughts
every half-hour. After the death of his wife, he transferred his cruelty to his little daughter
Lalie, who did not long survive. L'Assommoir.

BIJARD (MADAME) lived with her husband and their children in the same tenement as the Coupeaus
and Lorilleux. She was a hard-working woman who did washing for Gervaise Coupeau's laundry,
but her husband, a drunken brute, abused her to such an extent that she ultimately died of injuries
received at his hands, or, more accurately, feet. The poor woman, in order to save her husband
from the scaffold, said before she died that she had hurt herself by falling on the edge of a
tub. L'Assommoir.

BIJARD (LALIE), daughter of the preceding, a child of eight when her
mother died, had acted as the little mother of the family.

"Without a word said, quite of her own accord, she took the dead woman's place, to such an extent
that her foolish brute of a father, to make the likeness complete, battered about the daughter
now as he had battered the mother before. When he came in drunk, he felt the need of a woman
to attack. He did not even notice what a tiny little thing Lalie was; he hit her as he would have
hit a grown woman. He beat her shamelessly, he kicked her for a yes or no; and she took it all
with a resigned look in her beautiful eyes, without a murmur. Then when her father was tired
of kicking her from corner to corner of the room, she waited until she had the strength to pick
herself up, and then went back to her work. It was part of her daily task to be beaten." As the
result of this infamous treatment the child died, but again the man unfortunately escaped punishment.
L'Assommoir.

BIJARD (HENRIETTE), second daughter of Bijard. She was five years old at the time of her mother's
death. L'Assommoir.

BIJARD (JULES), third child of Bijard. When his mother died he was
three years old. L'Assommoir.

BIJOU,
the pet dog of Nana. He excited the jealousy of Comte de Muffat.
Nana.

BILLECOQ (HERMINIE), a protegee of Madame Correur, who induced Eugene Rougon to provide a dowry,
in order that she might marry an officer who had compromised her. The officer did not, however,
fulfill his promise, but went off with the dowry, of which he had obtained possession. Son Excellence
Eugene Rougon.

BLACHET, a deputy. He desired leave of absence. Son Excellence Eugene
Rougon.

BLAISOT, a banker at Paris. L'Argent.

BLANCHETTE, a cow which belonged to Lise and Francoise Fouan. La
Terre.

BLERIOT (M. DE), prefect of the department in which Plassans is situated. He accompanied Colonel
Masson and the troops which crushed the Republican rising in 1851.

La Fortune des Rougon.

BLEUZE, a rope-walk at Montsou which was ruined by the miners'strike.
Germinal.

BLOND (MARIA), a young girl of fifteen who had grown up on the pavements of Paris. She frequented
the restaurant kept by Laure Piedefer. Nana.

BOCHE (M.) the concierge of the large tenement-house in which resided the Coupeaus, Lorilleux,
and others. He and his wife were friendly with the various tenants in turn, sometimes siding
with one and sometimes with another in the quarrels which so frequently arose. In the presence
of the landlord, of whom they were afraid, they assumed an air of great importance, and affected
not to know the tenants. They were present at Gervaise Coupeau's
birthday party. L'Assommoir.

BOCHE (MADAME), wife of the preceding. L'Assommoir.

Nana informed Satin that Madame Boche is dead. Nana.

BOCHE (PAULINE), daughter of the preceding, was a girl of about the same age as Nana Coupeau,
whose companion she was in all kinds of mischief. L'Assommoir.

BOCQUET (MADAME), mother of Clarisse. Pot-Bouille.

BOCQUET (CLARISSE), a woman on whom Duveyrier squandered large sums
of money.

She ultimately gained such complete influence over him, and made him so unhappy, that he attempted
to commit suicide. Pot-Bouille.

BODIN (DOCTOR) was the regular medical attendant of Madame Helene Grandjean and her daughter
Jeanne. A sudden illness of Jeanne made it necessary to call in Doctor Deberle, who subsequently
met the older man in consultation from time to time. Une Page d'Amour.

BOHAIN (MARQUIS DE), an elderly nobleman whose presence and manners were of a kind to adorn
a board of directors, and whose illustrious name was of value on a prospectus. He was in consequence
always in demand by new companies. Since he began living by speculation, he and his wife had
been legally separated, so far as estate went, and he lived with her only as a lodger, with
nothing of his own except his clothes. "On two occasions already he had refused to pay up
what he owed; he pocketed as long as he won, but as soon as he lost
he did not pay."

At the request of Saccard, the Marquis became a director of the Universal Bank. When the great gamble
in the shares of the bank began, the Marquis followed his usual plan; having played through Mazaud
for a rise, he refused to pay his losses, though he had gained two million francs through Jacoby,
through whom he had played for a fall. L'Argent.

BONGRAND, a great artist, painter of the Village Wedding.

He was a stout man, forty-five years old, with an expressive face and long grey hair; recently he had
become a member of the Institute and an officer of the Legion of Honour. The grandson of a farmer
in the Beauce country, the son of a man risen to the middle classes, with peasant blood in
his veins, owing his culture to a mother of very artistic tastes, he was rich, had no need
to sell his pictures, and retained many tastes and opinions of Bohemian life. His masterpiece,
the Village Wedding, had brought about a revolution in art only parallel with Courbet, and he
was acknowledged as Master by all the artists of the young school. The picture remained, however,
his greatest work, though he objected to have it so designated, in
the fear that it might be thought his powers were failing.

A later picture called the Village Funeral was intended to surpass it, but failed to arrest
attention, and was indeed only an echo of the earlier work. He was one of the few mourners at
the funeral of Claude Lantier. L'Oeuvre.

BONHOMME, the horse which for a quarter of a century had carried Doctor Pascal on his visits
to his patients. Latterly the old Bonhomme became blind, and was no longer being driven, but being
much loved by his master, was tenderly cared for until his death.
Le Docteur Pascal.

BONNAUD, formerly head of the counting-house of a railway company.

Pot-Bouille.

BONNEHON (MADAME), sister of President Grandmorin. She was married to a wealthy manufacturer, who
left her a widow at the age of thirty. In the mansion-house of Doinville, which belonged to her,
she led a pleasant life, not without occasional affairs of the heart, but so correct in every
way that she remained a leader of society in Rouen.

She was a handsome woman, and in spite of her fifty years still retained much of her former charm.
Among her friends she included Chaumette and Desbazeilles, both officials of the court at
Rouen. Madame Bonnehon had a good opinion of the Roubauds, and did not approve of the position
taken up by her niece Berthe regarding the legacy left to them by President Grandmorin. For the
honour of her family she desired that the inquiry as to the murder of the President should not
be continued. La Bete Humaine.

BONNEMORT, the sobriquet of Vincent Maheu. His family had been miners for generations, and he himself
had worked in the pit since he was eight years old. After forty-five years of work underground
he was given a post as fireman, and for five years worked each night at the Voreux pit for a
wage of forty sous. He suffered greatly from rheumatism, which eventually turned into a form of dropsy,
while his mind became affected to some extent by the sufferings occasioned by the great strike
which took place at Voreux and other neighbouring pits. After the terrible scenes at Montsou, he
could only sit in his chair before the fireless grate, with fixed and unseeing eyes, but in a
sudden accession of madness he found strength to strangle Cecile Gregoire, who chanced to
be left alone with him for a few moments. Germinal.

BONNET. See De Mareuil.

BORDENAVE, manager of the Theatre des Varietes. He was a coarse man, with cynical views as to
the stage, and cared nothing as to the means by which a popular success might be secured. Though
he was well aware that Nana could neither sing nor act, he saw that her beauty was of a type
likely to attract the Parisian public, and accordingly gave her the chief part in the Blonde
Venus. It was he who showed H. R. H. The Prince of Scots the honours
of "behind the scenes." Nana.

BORGNE-DE-JOUY, one of the band of brigands which was led by Beau-Francois. He betrayed his companions.
La Terre.

BOSC, an old actor at the Theatre des Varietes, where he played the part of Jupiter in the Blonde
Venus, and the Duc de Beaurivage in the Petite Duchesse. He had a good-natured but somewhat drunken
appearance. He treated women with disdain, and the idea that any man should trouble himself
about them raised in him the only indignation of which he was capable.
Nana.

BOUCHARD (M.), head-clerk in the office of the Minister of Interior. His house was the first
thrown open to Eugene Rougon on his arrival in Paris. Later on, Bouchard inherited his father's
property, and at fifty-four years of age married Adele Desvignes. He was appointed head of a
department after Rougon's return to office. Son Excellence Eugene
Rougon.

BOUCHARD (MADAME), wife of the preceding, was the daughter of a respectable family at Rambouillet.
M. Bouchard "had been anxious to marry a young lady from the provinces, because he made a point of having
a steady wife. However, the fair and adorable little Adele, with her innocent blue eyes, had in
less than four years proved to be a great deal more than a mere flirt." Son Excellence Eugene
Rougon.

BOULAND (MADAME), the nurse who attended Madame Lazare Chanteau.
La Joie de Vivre.

BOUM, a horse which belonged to M. Gasc and ran in the Grand Prix
de Paris. Nana.

BOURDELAIS, an upper clerk in the office of the Minister of Finance.
Au Bonheur des Dames.

BOURDELAIS
(MADAME) was a short, fair woman of thirty, with a delicate nose and sparkling eyes, who had married
a chief clerk in the Treasury. She was an old schoolfellow of Madame Desforges. Belonging to
a good middle-class family, she managed her household and three children with an excellent
knowledge of practical life. Au Bonheur des Dames.

BOURDEU (M.), formerly Prefect of the Drome, but turned out of office by the Revolution of
1848. Politically he was a Legitimist, and he was a friend of M. Rastoil, at whose house his
party was in the habit of meeting. At one time he was suggested as a likely candidate for the representation
of Plassans, but he retired after Delangre had been brought forward through the machinations of
Abbe Faujas. Madame de Condamin promised him, however, that through her influence he would
be rewarded with a prefecture. La Conquete de Plassans.

BOURDONCLE, the son of a poor farmer near Limoges, started at "The Ladies'Paradise" at the same
time as Octave Mouret. He was very active and intelligent, but he lacked that touch of genius possessed
by his companion, before whom he had bowed from the first. Acting on Mouret's advice, he put
all his savings into the business, and, after passing through the various grades, he became
in time one of the six persons who assisted Mouret to govern "The Ladies'Paradise," exercising
a general control of the whole staff.

Au Bonheur des Dames.

BOURGAIN-DESFEUILLES (GENERAL). During the war of 1870 he was at the head of a brigade of infantry,
of which the 106th regiment of the line, commanded by Colonel de Vineuil, formed part. Like
so many other officers he proved himself incompetent, and after the capitulation he, alone among
the generals, took advantage of the pretext of illness to sign an undertaking to the Germans
not to take any further part in the war. La Debacle.

BOURGUIGNON, a master zinc-worker from whom Coupeau got employment.
L'Assommoir.

BOUROCHE (SURGEON-MAJOR), of the 106th regiment of the line, commanded by Colonel Vineuil. During
the battle of Sedan he installed an ambulance in a factory belonging
to Jules Delaherche, where he was soon overwhelmed with work.

With untiring energy he performed one operation after another until the place became like a slaughter-house.
Behind a clump of trees were thrown the bodies of the dead, and the limbs amputated from the
living. Depressed for a moment by the vastness of his task, Bouroche nearly lost heart, exclaiming,
"What is the use?" but his instincts of discipline recalled him to work, and he continued to
operate even after the supply of chloroform was exhausted. During the insurrection at Paris
he served with the army of Versailles, but consented to treat one of his old soldiers, Maurice
Levasseur, who had been mortally wounded in the ranks of the Commune.
La Debacle.

BOURRAS, an old man who sold umbrellas and walking-sticks in a tumble-down house which adjoined
"The Ladies'Paradise." His business was ruined by the growth of that concern, and he expressed
bitter hatred towards Octave Mouret, its proprietor. Denise Baudu rented a room from him after
her dismissal from "The Ladies'Paradise," and he showed much kindness to her and Pepe, her young
brother. He refused several offers by Mouret, who wished to purchase his lease in order to extend
his own shop, and ultimately, having become bankrupt, was forced to leave without a penny. Au Bonheur
des Dames.

BOURRETTE (ABBE), one of the clergy of the church of Saint-Saturnin at Plassans. He did duty as vicar
during the illness of Abbe Compan, and had been led to expect the reversion of the appointment.
Pressure brought to bear on Bishop Rousselot led to the selection of Abbe Faujas, and Bourrette
was put off with vague promises for the future.

He was a simple-minded, amiable man, who accepted his disappointment without murmuring, and continued
on friendly terms with Faujas. La Conquete de Plassans.

BOUTAREL, a doctor who attended Nana. He was a handsome man, still
young, who had a large practice in the demi-monde. Always gay and
laughing, he was popular with his patients, but took care not to compromise
himself with any of them. Nana.

BOUTAREL (MADAME), a lady who lived
in the country and economized for months at a time, only coming to
Paris occasionally. When she came, she made straight for "The Ladies'Paradise"
and spent all her savings in an afternoon. Au Bonheur des Dames. BOUTELOUP
(LOUIS), a workman at the Voreux pit.

He lodged with Madame Levaque, whose lover he became. Germinal.
BOUTEROUE (HILARION), second child of Vincent Bouteroue, and grandson
of Marianne Fouan (La Grande).

The latter had never
forgiven the marriage of her daughter, and would do nothing to assist
the two children after the death of their parents. Hilarion, who was of
weak intellect, was looked after from childhood by his sister Palmyre,
who wore herself out in his service. After Palmyre's death his grandmother
gave him shelter, but took advantage of his great strength by employing
him at work of the hardest kind. Ultimately Hilarion committed a serious
assault on the old woman, and in defending herself she struck him on
the head with a bill-hook, inflicting a wound from which he died. La
Terre. BOUTEROUE (PALMYRE), sister of the preceding, worked like a
slave to support her brother, and died completely worn out by toil
and hardship at the age of thirty-five.

La Terre.
BOUTEROUE (VINCENT), a poor peasant, whom the daughter of the Pechards
insisted on marrying despite the opposition of her mother. They both
died of want, leaving two children, Palmyre and Hilarion.

La Terre. BOUTEROUE (MADAME VINCENT),
see Mademoiselle Pechard. BOUTHEMENT PERE, a shopkeeper at Montpellier,
who sent his son to Paris to learn business. He was disgusted to find that
the simple salesman in Paris could earn three times as much as he
himself could make, and he was stupefied on seeing the vast emporium
in which his son served.

Au Bonheur des Dames. BOUTHEMONT, manager of
the silk department at "The Ladies'Paradise."

Noisy and too fond of company, he was not much good for sales,
but for buying he had not his equal. Nearly every month he went to
Lyons, living at the best hotels, with authority to treat the manufacturers
with open purse. He had, moreover, liberty to buy what he liked, provided
he increased the sales of his department in a certain proportion
settled beforehand; and it was on this proportion that his commission
was based.

Eventually, however, his position
was undermined, and Madame Desforges, having become jealous of Mouret, and
wishing to injure him, introduced Bouthemont to Baron Hartmann, who
lent him money to start an opposition establishment called "The Four
Seasons." This was burned down three weeks after its opening, but the enormous
loss was covered by insurance. Au Bonheur des Dames. BOUTIGNY, Lazare
Chanteau's partner in the chemical business, into which he put thirty
thousand francs. After the failure of the venture, he took over the whole
concern, and began to manufacture potash from seaweed by the old methods.
He was very successful in this, and by degrees began to employ on a
small scale the scientific systems which had before proved disastrous.
In a few years he amassed a considerable fortune. La Joie de Vivre.
BOUTIN, a retired artist's-model who kept a studio in Rue de la Huchette,
which was frequented by Claude Lantier, who went there for purposes
of study.

A subscription of twenty francs enabled young artists to have
the free use of models. L'Oeuvre. BOUTIN, an old epileptic attended
by Doctor Pascal at Plassans. He died in one of his fits. Le Docteur
Pascal. BOVES (COMTE DE), Inspector-General of the Imperial Stud,
a tall, handsome man who had married his wife for her great beauty.
Notwithstanding this, he carried on a liaison with Madame Guibal, whose
demands upon his purse were so heavy that he was obliged to economize
in his own establishment.

Au Bonheur des Dames. BOVES (COMTESSE
DE), wife of the preceding, was a beautiful woman of about forty years
of age. She was a constant customer at "The Ladies'Paradise," but as her
husband kept her very short of money, was seldom able to buy anything.

Eventually
temptation proved too strong for her, and she was caught in the act
of stealing some valuable lace.

The matter was, however, kept quiet,
and a scandal avoided. Au Bonheur des Dames. BOVES (BLANCHE DE), daughter
of the preceding. She usually accompanied her mother on her shopping
expeditions to "The Ladies'Paradise," and, it is to be feared, was
not unaware of the theft of lace by her. She married Paul de Vallagnosc.
Au Bonheur des Dames.

BRAMAH, an English horse which won the Grand Prix de Paris.
It belonged to Lord Reading. Nana. BRAMBILLA (SIGNOR), a Venetian
political refugee, and a friend of Comtesse Balbi. Son Excellence
Eugene Rougon. BRETIGNY (COMTESSE DE). Auguste Lantier, reading the
news from a journal to his friends Coupeau and Mes-Bottes, announced
that the eldest daughter of the Comtesse de Bretigny was to be married
to Baron de Valencay, aide-de-camp to His Majesty the Emperor.

L'Assommoir. BRETON-LE-CUL-SEC, one
of the band of brigands led by Beau-Francois. La Terre. BRICHET, the father
of Fortune, Rosalie Bambousse's lover. He was a little man, withered
by age, and with a cringing manner. Just as pertinently
may you ask, whether that is not a good system of servitude, which is found in some of our
state prisons. Punishment probably--certainly not labor--is the leading object in the one case
as well as the other: and the labor of the bondman in the one, as well as of the convict in
the other, constitutes but a subordinate consideration. To suppose that God would, with every
consideration out of view, but that of having the best relation of employer and laborer, make
choice of slavery--to suppose that He believes that this state of servitude operates most beneficially,
both for the master and the servant--is a high impeachment of the Divine wisdom and goodness.
But thus guilty are you, if you are unwilling to believe, that, if He chose the severe servitude
in question, He chose it for the punishment of his enemies, or from some consideration, other
than its suitableness for the ordinary purposes of the relation of master and servant.

But it has been for the sake of argument only, that I have admitted that God authorized the
Jews to enslave the heathen. I now totally deny that He did so. You will, of course, consent
that if He did so, it was in a special statute, as was the case when He authorized them to
exterminate other heathen: and you will as readily consent that He enacted the statutes, in
both instances, with the view of punishing his enemies. Now, in killing the Canaanites, the
Jew was constituted, not the owner of his devoted fellow man, but simply the executioner of
God's vengeance: and evidently, such and no other was his character when he was reducing the
Canaanite to involuntary servitude--that he did so reduce him, and was commissioned by God
to do so, is the supposition we make for the sake of argument. Had the Jews been authorized
by God to shut up in dungeons for life those of the heathen, whom they were directed to have
for bondmen and bondmaids, you would not claim, that they, any more than sheriffs and jailers
in our day, are to be considered in the light of owners of the persons in their charge. Much
less then, can the Jews be considered as the owners of any person whom they held in servitude:
for, however severe the type of that servitude, the liberty of its subject was not restricted,
as was that of the prisoners in question:--most certainly, the power asserted over him is not
to be compared in extent with that asserted by the Jew over the Canaanite, whom he slew;--a
case in which he was, indisputably, but the executioner of the Divine wrath. The Canaanite,
whether devoted to a violent death or to an involuntary servitude, still remained the property
of God: and God no more gave him up to be the property of the executioner of his wrath, than
the people of the State of New York give up the offender against public justice to be the property
of the ministers of that justice. God never suspends the accountability of his rational creatures
to himself: and his rights to them, He never transfers to others. He could not do so consistently
with his attributes, and his indissoluble relations to man. But slavery claims, that its subjects
are the property of man. It claims to turn them into mere chattels, and to make them as void
of responsibility to God, as other chattels. Slavery, in a word, claims to push from his throne
the Supreme Being, who declares, "all souls are mine." That it does not succeed in getting
its victim out of God's hand, and in unmanning and chattelizing him--that God's hold upon him
remains unbroken, and that those upward tendencies of the soul, which distinguish man from
the brute, are not yet entirely crushed in him--is no evidence in favor of its nature:--it
simply proves, that its power is not equal to its purposes. We see, then, that the Jews--if
it be true that they reduced their fellow men to involuntary servitude, and did so as the Heaven-appointed
ministers of God's justice,--are not to be charged with slaveholding for it. There may be involuntary
servitude where there is no slavery. The essential and distinguishing feature of slavery is
its reduction of man to property--to a thing. A tenant of one of our state prisons is under
a sentence of "hard labor for life." But he is not a slave. That is, he is not the thing which
slavery would mark its subject. He is still a man. Offended justice has placed him in his present
circumstances, because he is a man: and, it is because he is a man and not a thing--a responsible,
and not an irresponsible being, that he must continue in his present trials and sufferings.

God's commandments to the Jews, respecting servants and strangers, show that He not only did
not authorize them to set up the claim of property in their fellow men, but that He most carefully
guarded against such exercises of power, as might lead to the assumption of a claim so wrongful
to Himself. Some of these commandments I will bring to your notice. They show that whatever
was the form of servitude under which God allowed the Jews to hold the heathen, it was not
slavery. Indeed, if all of the Word of God which bears on this point were cited and duly explained,
it would, perhaps, appear that He allowed no involuntary servitude whatever amongst the Jews. Dr.
Grey removed the embroidery to the table, and seated himself in the
sofa corner.

"Good evening. Interruption argues occupation and absorbed attention, and the term is not applicable
to me.

I who live as vainly, as uselessly, as fruitlessly, as some fakir twirling his thumbs and
staring at his beard, have little right to call anything an interruption. My existence here
is as still, as stagnant, as some pool down yonder in the sedge which last week's waves left
among the sand hillocks, and your visits are like pebbles thrown
into it, creating transient ripples and circles."

  
  

"You have gone back to the God of your æsthetic idolatry," said he,
touching the "Liber Studiorum."

"Yes, because'Beauty pitches her tents before him,'and his pencil is more potent in conjuring visions
that enchant my wearied mind, than Jemschid's goblet or Iskander's
mirror."

"But why stand afar off, trusting to human and fallible interpreters, when it is your privilege
to draw near and dwell in the essence of the only real and divine
beauty?"

"Better reverence it behind a veil, than suffer like Semele. I know my needs, and satisfy them
fully. Once my heart was as bare of adoration as Egypt's tawny sands of crystal rain-pools;
but looking into the realm of nature and of art, I chose the religion of the beautiful, and said
to my famished soul,'From every channel thro'which Beauty runs, To
fertilize the world with lovely things, I will draw freely, and be
satisfied.'"

"This morbid sentimentality, this sickly gasping system of æsthetics, soi-disant'Religion of the
Beautiful,'is the curse of the age,-- is a vast, universal vampire
sucking the life from humanity.

Like other idolatries it may arrogate the name of'Religion,'but it is simply downright pagan materialism,
and its votaries of the nineteenth century should look back two thousand years, and renew the Panathenoea.
The ancient Greek worship of æsthetics was a proud and pardonable system, replete with sublime images; but
the idols of your emasculated creed are yellow-haired women with straight noses,-- are purple
clouds and moon-silvered seas,-- and physical beauty constitutes their sole excellence. Lovely
landscapes and perfect faces are certainly entitled to a liberal
quota of earnest admiration; but a religion that contents itself with merely
material beauty, differs in nothing but nomenclature from the pagan
worship of Cybele, Venus, and Astarte."

A chill smile momentarily brightened Mrs. Gerome's features, and turning towards her visitor, she answered
slowly,-- "Be thankful, sir, that even the worship of beauty lingers in this world of sin and hate;
and instead of defiling and demolishing its altars, go to work zealously
and erect new ones at every cross-roads.

Lessing spoke for me when he said,'Only a misapprehended religion can remove us from the beautiful,
and it is proof that a religion is true and rightly understood when
it everywhere brings us back to the Beautiful.'"

"Pardon me. I accept Lessing's words, but cavil at your interpretation
of them. His reverence for Beauty embraced not merely physical and
material types, but that nobler, grander beauty which centres in pure
ethics and ontology; and a religion that seeks no higher forms than
those of clay,-- whether Himalayas or'Greek Slave,'-- whether emerald
icebergs, flashing under polar auroras, or the myosotis that nods there
on the mantelpiece,-- a religion that substitutes beauty for duty,
and Nature for Nature's God, is a shameful sham, and a curse to its
devotees. But, as I have previously intimated,
I have not the strongest confidence in the anti-slavery argument, so frequently drawn from
this passage of the Bible. I am not sure that a Jewish servant is referred to: nor that on
the supposition of his being a foreigner, the servant came under any form of servitude when
entering the land of the Jews. Before leaving the topic, however, let me remark, that the passage,
under any construction of it, makes against Southern slavery. Admit that the fugitive servant
was a foreigner, and that he was not reduced to servitude on coming among the Jews, let me
ask you whether the law in question, under this view of it, would be tolerated by the spirit
of Southern slavery?--and whether, before obedience would be rendered to it, you would not
need to have a different type of servitude, in the place of slavery? You would--I know you
would--for you have been put to the trial. When, by a happy providence, a vessel was driven,
the last year, to a West India island, and the chains of the poor slaves with which it was
filled fell from around them, under freedom's magic power, the exasperated South was ready
to go to war with Great Britain. Then, the law against delivering up foreign servants to their
masters was not relished by you. The given case comes most strikingly within the supposed policy
of this law. The Gentile was to be permitted to remain in the land to which he had fled, and
where he would have advantages for becoming acquainted with the God of the Bible. Such advantages
are they enjoying who escaped from the confessed heathenism of Southern slavery to the island
in question. They are now taught to read that "Book of life," which before, they were forbidden
to read. But again, suppose a slave were to escape from a West India island into the Southern
States--would you, with your "domestic institutions," of which you are so jealous, render obedience
to this Divine law? No; you would subject him for ever to a servitude more severe than that,
from which he had escaped. Indeed, if a freeman come within a certain portion of our Southern
country, and be so unhappy as to bear a physical resemblance to the slave, he will be punished
for that resemblance, by imprisonment, and even by a reduction to slavery.

2d. Southern slaveholders, who, by their laws, own men as absolutely as they own cattle, would
have it believed, that Jewish masters thus owned their fellow-men. If they did, why was there
so wide a difference between the commandment respecting the stray man, and that respecting
the stray ox or ass? The man was not, but the beasts were, to be returned; and that too, even
though their owner was the enemy of him who met them. (Ex. 23. 4.) I repeat the question;--why
this difference? The only answer is, because God made the brute to be the property of man;
but He never gave us our noble nature for such degradation. Man's title deed, in the eighth
Psalm, extends his right of property to the inanimate and brute creation only--not to the flesh
and bones and spirit of his fellow-man.

3d. The very different penalties annexed to the crime of stealing a man, and to that of stealing
a thing, shows the eternal and infinite difference which God has established between a man
and property. The stealing of a man was surely to be punished with death; whilst mere property
was allowed to atone for the offence of stealing property.

4th. Who, if not the slave, can be said to be vexed and oppressed! But God's command to his
people was, that they should neither "vex a stranger, nor oppress him."

5th. Such is the nature of American slavery, that not even its warmest friends would claim
that it could recover itself after such a "year of jubilee" as God appointed. One such general
delivery of its victims would be for ever fatal to it. I am aware that you deny that all the
servants of the Jews shared in the blessings of the "year of jubilee." But let me ask you,
whether if one third or one half of your servants were discharged from servitude every fiftieth
year--and still more, whether if a considerable proportion of them were thus discharged every
sixth year--the remainder would not be fearfully discontented? Southern masters believe, that
their only safety consists in keeping down the discontent of their servants. Hence their anxious
care to withhold from them the knowledge of human rights. Hence the abolitionist who is caught
in a slave state, must be whipped or put to death. If there were a class of servants amongst
the Jews, who could bear to see all their fellow servants go free, whilst they themselves were
retained in bondage, then that bondage was of a kind very different from what you suppose it
to have been. Had its subjects worn the galling chains of American slavery, they would have
struggled with bloody desperation for the deliverance which they saw accorded to others.

I scarcely need say, that the Hebrew words rendered "bondmen" and "bondmaids," do not, in themselves
considered, and independently of the connexion in which they are used, any more than the Greek
words doulos and doule, denote a particular kind of servant. If the servant was a slave, because
he was called by the Hebrew word rendered "bondman," then was Jacob a slave also:--and even
still greater absurdities could be deduced from the position.

I promised, in a former part of this communication, to give you my reasons for denying that
you are at liberty to plead in behalf of slavery, the example of any compulsory servitude in
which Jews may have held foreigners. My promise is now fulfilled, and I trust that the reasons
are such as not to admit of an answer.

Driven, as you now are, from every other conceivable defence of slaveholding it may be (though
I must hope better things of you), that you will fly to the ground taken by the wicked multitude--that
there is authority in the laws of man for being a slaveholder. JOSSERAND (HORTENSE), elder daughter
of M. Josserand. Her mother endeavoured to secure a husband for her, but she made her own choice,
selecting one Verdier, a lawyer. The marriage was put off from time to time as Verdier had got
entangled with a woman from whom he found separation difficult. Pot-Bouille.

JOSSERAND (LEON), elder son of M. Josserand. He was a young man of ambition, who hoped to rise through
the influence of Madame Dambreville, whose lover he became. Ultimately she arranged a marriage
between him and her niece Raymonde, who brought him a large dowry.

Soon afterwards by the same means he was appointed Maitre des Requetes.
Pot-Bouille.

JOSSERAND (MADAME LEON), wife of the preceding. See Raymonde. Pot-Bouille.

JOSSERAND (SATURNIN), younger son of M. Josserand. He was a powerful young man of twenty-five,
whose mind had been seriously affected by an attack of brain fever; though not actually insane, he was
subject to fits of blind fury whenever anybody annoyed him. When his sister Berthe was a little girl,
he nursed her through a long illness, and since he saved her life he adored her with a deep, passionate
devotion. The preparations for her marriage to Auguste Vabre affected him so seriously that
his removal to an asylum became necessary, and he remained there for some time. On his release
he went to live with his sister and her husband, but domestic trouble having arisen, his mind again became
so unhinged that he made an attempt on the life of his brother-in-law
and had again to be taken to an asylum.

Pot-Bouille.

JOUVE (ABBE), an officiating priest at Notre Dame de Grace, the parish church of Passy. He had
known M. Grandjean at Marseilles, and showed much kindness to Helene after the death of her husband,
assisting her in settling up her affairs. Along with M. Rambaud, his half-brother, he was a
regular visitor at Helene's house, and later endeavoured to arrange a marriage between her
and his brother. He was devoted to Jeanne Grandjean, and helped to nurse her during her fatal illness.
An amiable, kind-hearted man, he was greatly beloved by his parishioners.
Une Page d'Amour.

JOUVE, a retired captain in the army, and afterwards one of the four inspectors at "The Ladies'Paradise."
In addition to acting as spy on the staff he watched the customers, and it was he who detected
Madame de Boves in the act of stealing some fine lace. He made certain advances to Denis Baudu which
she resented, and in consequence he afterwards showed considerable
ill-will towards her. Au Bonheur des Dames.

JUILLERAT (DOCTOR), an old physician who attended most of the inhabitants
of the Rue de Choiseul.

He was a man of only average abilities who had built up a large practice by hard work. His views
were somewhat advanced, and he had many arguments with Abbe Mauduit, with whom he frequently came
in contact at the bedsides of his patients. Pot-Bouille. JULES, the lover of La Sarriette. He
lived on her earnings as a fruit-dealer. Le Ventre de Paris.

JULES, one of the soldiers sent to Montsou during the strike. He
was born at Plogof, where his mother and sister still resided.

One night
while he was on guard at the Voreux mine he was murdered by Jeanlin Maheu, who with the assistance
of Etienne Lantier carried the body to a gallery of the mine, where they buried it under a fall
of rock. Germinal. JULES (MADAME), Nana's dresser at the Theatre des Varietes. Nana. JULIE, cook
in the employment of the Duveyriers. Pot-Bouille.

JULIEN, butler in the employment of Nana in the Avenue de Villiers.

He left the house with a large sum, as Comte Muffat, being jealous,
wished to be freed from his presence.

Nana. JUSSELIN (PIERRE-FRANCOIS), a protege of M. de Marsy. Eugene Rougon refused to nominate
him as an officer of the Legion of Honour, and gave the decoration
which had been intended for him to Bejuin.

Son Excellence Eugene Rougon. JEZEUR (MADAME), a neighbour of the Josserands in the Rue de Choiseul.
Her husband had left her after ten days of married life, and thenceforth she lived alone in quiet lodgings.
Very little was known of her circumstances or mode of life.

Pot-Bouille. K KAHN (M.), son of a Jewish banker at Bordeaux; a deputy who was engaged in a scheme
for the construction of a railway from Niort to Angers. He was chiefly anxious for this, as the
proposed line would pass through Bressure, where he had some blast-furnaces,
the value of which it would considerably increase.

Rougon supported him energetically, and had almost secured the grant
when his retirement from office delayed the scheme for some years.

Soon after Rougon's appointment as Minister of the Interior the grant was obtained, and he accompanied Kahn
to Niort to attend the inauguration of the scheme. Son Excellence Eugene Rougon. KAHN (MADAME),
wife of the preceding. She lived a very retired life at Paris. Son Excellence Eugene Rougon. KELLER
(LES), well-known leaders of society in Paris. It was at their house that Baroness Sandorff first
met Gundermann. L'Argent. KOLB (M.), a banker whose business consisted to a large extent in gold
arbitrage, buying foreign coins, and melting them into gold bars. He was a man of Jewish origin,
and having heard that Daigremont was to be connected with the Universal
Bank, he readily agreed to become a director.

Being a cautious man, however, he sold all his shares before the final collapse. L'Argent. L
LABORDETTE, a young man who was well known in racing circles, and
was specially popular with women, as he was always ready to render
them little services.

Through his relations with the world of trainers and jockeys he had always the latest information
as to races.

He made himself very useful to Nana when she was setting up a stable of her own, and assisted her
in the selection of servants. Nana. LACAILLE, a customer of Madame Francois, the market gardener. He attended
the Revolutionary meetings in Lebrigre's cafe. Le Ventre de Paris. LACAMP. See Puech and Lacamp. LACASSAGNE,
a dealer in feathers and artificial flowers, whose business was ruined
by the competition of Octave Mouret's establishment.

Au Bonheur des Dames.

LACHESNAYE (DE), judge at the Rouen Court of appeal, was the husband of Berthe Grandmorin, whom
he somewhat resembled in character. He was a little man, dry and yellow, who had been a judge
at the Court of Appeal from the age of thirty-six; he had been decorated, thanks to the influence
of his father-in-law, and to the services which his father had rendered on the High Commissions at
the time of the Coup d'Etat.

He was disliked by Denizet, the examining magistrate, in whose eyes he represented the class of judicial
functionary who attained position by wealth and influence.

Lachesnaye was incensed at the will of his father-in-law, Grandmorin,
who left fully half of his fortune to women of all classes, most of
them unknown to his family.

La Bete Humaine. LACHESNAYE (MADAME DE), wife of the preceding. See Berthe Grandmorin. La Bete Humaine.
LACOUR (ZEPHYRIN), a young lad from the same village as Rosalie,
whose sweetheart he was.

He was drawn in the conscription and sent to Paris, where, by permission of Madame Grandjean, he
came to see Rosalie, her maid, every Sunday. He was a good-hearted lad, whose ambition was to
get out of the army, marry Rosalie, and return to his native village. Une Page d'Amour. LADICOURT
(BARONNE DE), a lady who lived at Vouziers. Captain Beaudoin lunched at
her house on 26th August, 1870, at the hour when the Seventh Army
Corps was taking up its position for battle.

La Debacle. LADRICOURT (COMTE DE), father of the Baroness Sandorff. He was a confirmed gambler,
and a man of brutal manners. He died of apoplexy, completely ruined, after a series of disgraceful
failures. L'Argent. LA FALOISE (HECTOR DE), a youth who came from the country to Paris in order
to complete his education.

Thanks to the death of an uncle, he was very rich, and his chief
ambition was to be in everything ultra Parisian.

He posed as a man who had experienced everything, and who no longer thought anything worthy of being taken
seriously. Introduced behind the scenes of the Theatre des Varietes by his cousin Fauchery, he met Nana,
who did him the honour of ruining him without much loss of time. When his money was done, he returned
to the country in the hope of marrying a distant relation who was
both ugly and pious.

Nana. LAFOUASSE, a tavern-keeper in the neighbourhood of Plassans, between the old demesne
of Paradou and the village of Artaud. He was treated by Dr. Pascal Rougon for ataxy, but died
after a hypodermic injection of a serum with which the doctor was
experimenting.

Le Docteur Pascal. LAGARDE (EDMOND), a sergeant in the 6th Regiment of the line. At the most
his age was twenty-three, but he did not appear more than eighteen. He took part in the battle of
Sedan, and was wounded in the left arm, which was broken by a bullet.

His father, who was a shopkeeper in Paris, was a customer of Delaherche, and he was removed to the house
of the manufacturer, where he was treated as one of the family. A handsome lad, he aroused the pity
of Gilberte Delaherche, whose lover he became. La Debacle. LAGRIFOUL (MARQUIS DE), the Legitimist Deputy
for Plassans. His election came as a severe blow to the Government, and to M. Pequeur des Saulaies,
the sub-prefect of Plassans, who was held responsible for it. In reality, the election had
been largely influenced by the clergy, combined with the old nobility.
It was to counteract this influence that the Government sent Abbe
Faujas to Plassans.

The Marquis being a man of poor abilities, whose public appearances
were disappointing, his overthrow was rendered easier and more complete.

La Conquete de Plassans. LA JOLIE DAME, a customer at Octave Mouret's shop, Au Bonheur des Dames.
She was a favourite with all the salesmen, and as no one knew her name she was always referred to as
"The Pretty Lady." Au Bonheur des Dames. LALUBIE, teacher of the
sixth form at the college of Plassans.

He found one day his room transformed into a chapelle ardente, thanks to his pupils led by Pouillard.
After he recovered from his fright he set a heavy punishment for the whole class. He married the
daughter of Galissard, the haberdasher at Plassans. L'Oeuvre. LAMBERTHIER, an assistant at the
Halles Centrales. Josephine Dejoie was at one time cook in his house. L'Argent. LAMBERTHON (M. DE), a
Deputy who discussed with M. La Rouquette the wisdom of the Emperor conceding the privilege of
presenting an address to the Crown.

Son Excellence Eugene Rougon. LAMBOURDIEU, a shopkeeper at Cloyes, who sold Parisian novelties
in all the villages within a radius of five or six miles. La Terre. LANDOIS (AUGUSTE), assistant
in Quenu's business.

He came to Paris from Troyes to perfect himself in his trade, and having little money, intended to
set up for himself as a pork-butcher. He was engaged to his cousin Augustine Landois, who
was also employed by Quenu. He took a dislike to Florent, and wrote an anonymous letter denouncing
him to the Prefect of Police. Le Ventre de Paris.

LANDOIS (AUGUSTINE) came to Quenu's establishment to learn shop management. She was engaged to her
cousin Auguste Landois. Le Ventre de Paris. LANGLADE (DE), Prefect of Deux-Sevres. He was accused
of dissolute conduct, and was superseded in his office by Du Poizat.

Son Excellence Eugene Rougon. LANTIER (AUGUSTE), the lover of Gervaise Macquart; he accompanied her
to Paris, when she left home with their two children. La Fortune des Rougon. Soon after their
arrival in Paris, he deserted Gervaise for a girl named Adele, with whom he lived for several years,
during which he appears to have done little work.

After Adele left him he renewed friendship with Gervaise and Coupeau,
her husband, and induced them to take him into their home as a lodger.

Once established there, he paid nothing for his support, and soon
Gervaise was supporting him as well as her husband, who by this time
was doing nothing.

Gervaise, having become disgusted with her husband's intemperance, resumed her old relations with Lantier,
and these continued till she was financially ruined, and her shop
was taken over by Virginie Poisson.

Lantier, having transferred his affections to Virginie, was allowed to retain his old position
as lodger, and soon resumed his former tactics of paying no rent
and living off his landlord.

In course of time he succeeded in eating the Poissons'stock of sweetmeats and bringing them to ruin,
and then began to look out for some one else to support him. L'Assommoir. LANTIER (CLAUDE),
son of Gervaise Macquart and Auguste Lantier, was born at Plassans in 1842. He was brought up
by his paternal grandmother, but when she died, in 1850, he was taken to Paris by his parents.
La Fortune des Rougon.

After Lantier's desertion of Gervaise, and her subsequent marriage to Coupeau, Claude continued
to reside with his mother, but a few years later an old gentleman
of Plassans, a lover of pictures, who had been greatly struck by some
daubs done by the child, offered to pay for his education.

The offer was accepted, and Claude returned to Plassans. L'Assommoir.
Some years later his benefactor died, leaving him an income of a
thousand francs a year, enough to prevent him dying of hunger in the
artistic career which he had decided to follow.

Having come to Paris with an intense hatred of romanticism, he was
struck by the artistic possibilities of the Halles Centrales, the
great provision markets of Paris, which he haunted in search of subjects
for his brush.

He was induced by Florent to attend one of the republican meetings in Lebigre's cafe, but was not
in sympathy with the movement, and declined to take part in it.

He occasionally visited his aunt, Madame Lisa Quenu, but revolted
against her complete indifference to art, and her middle-class selfishness.
Le Ventre de Paris.

He was appointed a member of the family council which nominally had charge
of Pauline Quenu's fortune. La Joie de Vivre.

He established himself in a studio near the roof of an old house
close to the river, and there lived the life of a Bohemian, with an
absolute disdain for everything not related to art.

He revolted against the canons of the schools, and tried to achieve
truth in painting by adopting an exaggerated realism. His hopes became
centred in a large painting, which he called Plein Air, intended
for exhibition in the Salon.

The picture was rejected, and when shown at a minor exhibition was
greeted with derision by the public. About this period began his
connection with Christine Hallegrain, with whom he lived for several
years, and ultimately married.

They took up house at Bennecourt in an old cottage, and there some years passed
happily enough, a son named Jacques Louis being born in 1860. But
Claude gradually became discontented, and the family returned to
Paris, where there began a long struggle against poverty, a struggle
beginning in high anticipation and ending in despair.

After a long search for a subject for a picture which was to be his
masterpiece, Claude selected a stretch of the river near Notre Dame,
and into this he intended to put all those new theories of art with
which he hoped to revolutionize the world.

Everything was sacrificed to this picture; the small fortune left him
by his early benefactor was gradually realized to provide food, and
when it was exhausted there was little but starvation for the artist
and his dependants.

The work was begun in a frenzy of genius, but was constantly interrupted
by doubts and indecision; it became a monomania, and under its influence
Claude's mind gradually became unhinged; the family virus was at last
showing itself.

Christine was wholly taken up with her husband, and their child died
of an illness due greatly to neglect.

By this time Claude was incapable of any real feeling save for art, and the death of his child
only served to give him a subject for a picture. Having torn himself
away from his intended masterpiece for a time, he painted L'Enfant Mort,
which was exhibited in the Salon, and met with an even more contemptuous
reception from the public than his Plein Air.

Christine used all her influence to prevent her husband from returning
to his task, but his brain had become obsessed by the great idea,
which his hand proved powerless to execute as his mind became increasingly
deranged.

At length, in a moment of delirium, he hanged himself in front of
the picture which had proved the means of his undoing.

His genius was incomplete, and he was unable to carry out his own theories,
but they were adopted by other and less able successors with better
results. He was buried in the cemetery of Cayenne at Saint-Ouen.

    L'Oeuvre. LANTIER (MADAME CHRISTINE), wife of the preceding. See Christine
Hallegrain. L'Oeuvre. LANTIER (ETIENNE), the youngest son of Auguste
Lantier and Gervaise Macquart, was born in 1846, and accompanied his parents
to Paris in 1850.

    La Fortune des Rougon. After his mother had been married to Coupeau
for some time, and had started her laundry, Etienne was found somewhat
in the way, and on the suggestion of Goujet was sent to work in the
rivet-making factory where he himself was employed.

    Later the boy was sent to Lille, where he was apprenticed to an old
master of Goujet, an engineer in that town.

    When Gervaise had fallen into poverty, Etienne, who was by that time
a stoker on an engine, was able to send his mother a five-franc piece
occasionally.

    

    L'Assommoir. In a moment of passion Etienne struck his chief, and was
at once dismissed from his employment.

    An industrial crisis existed at the time, and, finding it impossible
to get work, he tramped from place to place till eventually he arrived
at Montsou, worn out with fatigue and want.

    

    At the Voreux pit he chanced to get work in a gang led by Maheu, and went
underground for the first time. The work was hard and distasteful to him,
but he was unwilling to give it up, and was perhaps influenced by
the bright eyes of Catherine Maheu, who toiled alongside him.

    He became more and more impressed with the sense of the
    hardships of the miners'lives, and his mind was also influenced by
Souvarine, a confessed anarchist, beside whom he lodged.

    Gradually Etienne began to indoctrinate his companions with a spirit
of revolt, and when the great strike broke out he became the leader.

    He did not, however, accept the extreme doctrines of Souvarine, and
endeavoured to dissuade the strikers from doing damage to property.

    In this he was not altogether successful, and his influence became
    considerably lessened, until he was blamed by his comrades for the
hardships they had to endure during the strike, and for its ultimate
collapse.

    He returned to work, and in the terrible catastrophe brought about
by Souvarine he was cut off at the bottom of the pit with Chaval
and Catherine Maheu.

    He had always loved Catherine, and notwithstanding their peril, an
old jealousy revived, and in a struggle with Chaval, Etienne killed him.
Days elapsed before rescue came, and by that time Catherine was dead.

    After six weeks in hospital, Etienne left for Paris. Germinal. At Paris,
later on, he took part in the Communist rising, and was condemned to
death. He was respited, and transported to Noumea, where he married,
and became father of a little girl.

    Le Docteur Pascal. LANTIER (JACQUES), the second son of Gervaise
Macquart and Auguste Lantier, was born at Plassans in 1844. He was
six years old when his parents went to Paris with his brothers, Claude
and Etienne, leaving him with his godmother, Aunt Phasie, who sent
him to the School of Arts and Crafts.

    After two years passed on the Orleans Railway, he became an engineer of
the first-class on the Western Railway. At twenty-six he was a tall, handsome
man, with dark hair and a clear complexion. From childhood he had suffered
from a complaint which the doctors did not understand, a pain in
the head, behind the ears, accompanied by fever and an intense melancholy,
which tempted him to hide like a suffering animal.

    Did it date from so far back, from the harm women had done to his race,
from the rancour laid up from male to male since the first deceptions
in the depths of the caverns?

    "Even with his cousin Flore, who loved him from childhood, the same
terrible instinct arose, and could only be stilled by flight. By chance,
Jacques was a momentary witness of the murder of President Grandmorin,
and when suspicion fell upon the Roubauds he came to be of opinion
that it was well-founded, a belief which was confirmed by a subsequent
confession to him by Severine.

    This avowal by Severine placed her in his mind in a different category
from all other woman; she had killed, and was a person sacred and apart,
a woman he could love without his lust for blood being evoked. At
the request of Severine, Jacques promised to kill Roubaud, her husband,
whom she had come to hate; but, though all the preparations were made,
it was Severine herself whom he killed, in an accession of that homicidal
rage which he imagined he had conquered.

    He escaped all suspicion, and calmly allowed Roubaud and Cabuche to be
punished for the crime. In order to see whether the murder of Severine
had cured him of his blood lust, he made love to Philomene Sauvagnat, thereby
arousing the jealousy of her lover, Pecqueux, who was stoker on the
engine driven by Lantier.

    A quarrel between the two men on the footplate of the engine resulted
in both of them falling off, and being cut in pieces beneath the
wheels.

    La Bete Humaine. LANTIER (JACQUES LOUIS), born 1860, was the son
of Claude Lantier and Christine Hallegrain. He was allowed to grow
up wild at Bennecourt until he was two and a half years old, when
his parents removed to Paris, taking him with them. The law
not only recognizes the right of the apprentice to a reward for his labor, but appoints the
wages, and enforces the payment. The master's claim covers only the services of the apprentice.
The apprentice's claim covers equally the services of the master. The master cannot hold the
apprentice as property, nor the apprentice the master; but each holds property in the services
of the other, and BOTH EQUALLY. Is this slavery?

9. Filial subordination and parental claims. Both are nature's dictates, and indispensable
to the existence of the social state; their design the promotion of mutual welfare; and the
means, those natural affections created by the relation of parent and child, and blending them
in one by irrepressible affinities; and thus, while exciting each to discharge those offices
incidental to the relation, they constitute a shield for mutual protection. The parent's legal
claim to the services of his children, while minors, is a slight boon for the care and toil
of their rearing, to say nothing of outlays for support and education. This provision for the
good of the whole, is, with the greater part of mankind, indispensable to the preservation
of the family state. The child, in helping his parents, helps himself--increases a common stock,
in which he has a share; while his most faithful services do but acknowledge a debt that money
cannot cancel.

10. Bondage for crime, or governmental claims on criminals. Must innocence be punished because
guilt suffers penalties? True, the criminal works for the government without pay; and well
he may. He owes the government. A century's work would not pay its drafts on him. He is a public
defaulter, and will die so. Because laws make men pay their debts, shall those be forced to
pay who owe nothing? Besides, the law makes no criminal, PROPERTY. It restrains his liberty;
it makes him pay something, a mere penny in the pound, of his debt to the government; but it
does not make him a chattel. Test it. To own property is to own its product. Are children born
of convicts government property? Besides, can property be guilty? Are chattels punished?

11. Restrictions upon freedom. Children are restrained by parents, wards by guardians, pupils
by teachers, patients by physicians and nurses, corporations by charters, and legislators by
constitutions. Embargoes, tariffs, quarantine, and all other laws, keep men from doing as they
please. Restraints are the web of civilized society, warp and woof. Are they slavery? then
civilized society is a mammoth slave--a government of LAW, the climax of slavery, and its executive
a king among slaveholders.

12. Involuntary or compulsory service. A juryman is empannelled against his will, and sit he
must. A sheriff orders his posse; bystanders must turn in. Men are compelled to remove nuisances,
pay fines and taxes, support their families, and "turn to the right as the law directs," however
much against their wills. Are they therefore slaves? To confound slavery with involuntary service
is absurd. Slavery is a condition. The slave's feelings toward it, are one thing; the condition
itself, the object of these feelings, is another thing; his feelings cannot alter the nature
of that condition. Whether he desire or detest it, the condition remains the same. The slave's
willingness to be a slave is no palliation of his master's guilt in holding him. Suppose the
slave verily thinks himself a chattel, and consents that others may so regard him, does that
make him a chattel, or make those guiltless who hold him as such? I may be sick of life, and
I tell the assassin so that stabs me; is he any the less a murderer because I consent to be
made a corpse? Does my partnership in his guilt blot out his part of it? If the slave were
willing to be a slave, his voluntariness, so far from lessening the guilt of the "owner," aggravates
it. If slavery has so palsied his mind and he looks upon himself as a chattel, and consents
to be one, actually to hold him as such, falls in with his delusion, and confirms the impious
falsehood. These very feelings and convictions of the slave, (if such were possible) increase
a hundred fold the guilt of the master in holding him as property, and call upon him in thunder,
immediately to recognize him as a MAN, and thus break the sorcery that binds his soul, cheating
it of its birth-right, and the consciousness of its worth and destiny.

Many of the foregoing conditions and relations are appendages of slavery, and some of them
inseparable from it. But no one, nor all of them together, constitute its intrinsic unchanging
element.

We proceed to state affirmatively that,

ENSLAVING MEN IS REDUCING THEM TO ARTICLES OF PROPERTY, making free agents chattels, converting
persons into things, sinking intelligence, accountability, immortality, into merchandise. A
slave is one held in this condition. He is a mere tool for another's use and benefit. In law
"he owns nothing, and can acquire nothing." His right to himself is abrogated. He is another's
property. If he say my hands, my feet, my body, my mind, MYself; they are figures of speech.
To use himself for his own good is a CRIME. To keep what he earns is stealing. To take his
body into his own keeping is insurrection. In a word, the> profit of his master is the END
of his being, and he, a mere means to that end, a mere means to an end into which his interests
do not enter, of which they constitute no portion[A]. MAN sunk to a thing! the intrinsic element,
the principle of slavery; MEN sold, bartered, leased, mortgaged, bequeathed, invoiced, shipped
in cargoes, stored as goods, taken on executions, and knocked off at public outcry! Their rights
another's conveniences, their interests, wares on sale, their happiness, a household utensil;
their personal inalienable ownership, a serviceable article, or plaything, as best suits the
humor of the hour; their deathless nature, conscience, social affections, sympathies, hopes,
marketable commodities! We repeat it, the reduction of persons to things; not robbing a man
of privileges, but of himself; not loading with burdens, but making him a beast of burden;
not restraining liberty, but subverting it; not curtailing rights, but abolishing them; not
inflicting personal cruelty, but annihilating personality; not exacting involuntary labor,
but sinking him into an implement of labor; not abridging his human comforts, but abrogating
his human nature; not depriving an animal of immunities, but despoiling a rational being of
attributes, uncreating a MAN to make room for a thing!

[Footnote A: Whatever system sinks man from an END to a means, or in other words, whatever
transforms him from an object of instrumentality into a mere instrumentality to an object,
just so far makes him a slave. Hence West India apprenticeship retains in one particular the
cardinal principle of slavery. The apprentice, during three-fourths of his time, is still forced
to labor, and robbed of his earnings; just so far forth he is a mere means, a slave. True,
in all other respects slavery is abolished in the British West Indies. Its bloodiest features
are blotted out--but the meanest and most despicable of all--forcing the poor to work for the
rich without pay three-fourths of their time, with a legal officer to flog them if they demur
at the outrage, is one of the provisions of the "Emancipation Act!" For the glories of that
luminary, abolitionists thank God, while they mourn that it rose behind clouds, and shines
through an eclipse.]

That this is American slavery, is shown by the laws of slave states. Brevard's Digest, 229.
In Louisiana, "a slave is one who is in the power of a master to whom he belongs; the master
may sell him, dispose of his person, his industry, and his labor; he can do nothing, possess
nothing, nor acquire any thing, but what must belong to his master." Civil Code of Louisiana,
Art. 35.

This is American slavery. The eternal distinction between a person and a thing, trampled under
foot--the crowning distinction of all others--their centre and circumference--the source, the
test, and the measure of their value--the rational, immortal principle, embalmed by God in
everlasting remembrance, consecrated to universal homage in a baptism of glory and honor, by
the gift of His Son, His Spirit, His Word, His presence, providence, and power; His protecting
shield, upholding staff, and sheltering wing; His opening heavens, and angels ministering,
and chariots of fire, and songs of morning stars, and a great voice in heaven, proclaiming
eternal sanctions, and confirming the word with signs following.

Having stated the principle of American slavery, we ask, DOES THE BIBLE SANCTION SUCH A PRINCIPLE?[A][A]?
To the law and the testimony. First, the moral law, or the ten commandments. Just after the
Israelites were emancipated from their bondage in Egypt, while they stood before Sinai to receive
the law, as the trumpet waxed louder, and the mount quaked and blazed, God spake the ten commandments
from the midst of clouds and thunderings. DESRUMAUX (BARON), one of the founders of the coal
industry in the north of France. For forty years he struggled without yielding, in the midst
of continual obstacles, and when at last his pits began to yield a small profit, two neighbouring
concessions, that of Cougny, belonging to the Comte de Cougny, and that of Joiselle, belonging
to the Cornille and Jenard Company, nearly overwhelmed him with their competition. Happily, on
25th August, 1760, a treaty was made between the three concessions, uniting them into a single one
known as the Montsou Mining Company. Germinal.

DESVIGNES (ADELE), see Madame Bouchard.

DIDE (AUNT). See Adelaide Fouque.

DIEUDONNE (MADAME), wife of a small farmer at Seguiranne. She brought up her niece Sophie,
who was cured of phthisis by Doctor Pascal. Le Docteur Pascal.

DOMERGUE was formerly Director of Roads and Bridges at Plassans. He was the father of Madame
Campardon. Pot-Bouille.

DOMERGUE (MADAME), wife of the preceding, lived a retired life at Plassans with her husband. She
introduced Octave Mouret to her daughter, Madame Campardon, when
he came to Paris. Pot-Bouille.

DOMERGUE
(ROSE). See Madame Achille Campardon.

DROUARD (MADAME), an old actress at the Theatre des Varietes. She played the part of Juno in the
Blonde Venus. Nana.

DUBREUIL, a cousin of the Levasseurs. He was sub-manager of the sugar refinery at Chene-Populeux
at the time Weiss was employed there; then, in 1868, he retired to a little property near Sedan
which had come to his wife as a legacy. On the evening before the battle, foreseeing the disaster,
he removed his wife and children to Bouillon, and next day the house was completely destroyed during
the struggle. La Debacle.

DUBRUEL, a pork-butcher at Plassans who took part in the attack on
the Town Hall.

Three days later he was killed in the ambush arranged by Pierre Rougon against the Republicans.
La Fortune des Rougon.

DUBUCHE (ALICE), daughter of Louis Dubuche and of Regine Margaillan, his wife. She was so delicate
that at six years old she was still unable to walk. Her father endeavoured to strengthen her
muscles by occasionally making her hold on to the bar of a trapeze for a few moments, but the exercise
only seemed to produce extreme terror in the unfortunate child. L'Oeuvre.

DUBUCHE (GASTON), the elder child of Louis Dubuche and of Regine Margaillan, his wife. At the
age of ten he had the feeble limbs of a little child, and though he regularly exercised on a trapeze,
he was unable to raise himself on his wrists, the least exertion producing profuse perspiration.
L'Oeuvre.

DUBUCHE (LOUIS), eldest son of a baker of Plassans, and companion from childhood of Claude Lantier
and Pierre Sandoz. His mother, who was very ambitious, sent him to Paris, where he studied architecture
at the School of Art. His reverence for established formulas caused
him to be out of sympathy with the advanced school of painting advocated
by Claude Lantier and his friends, though he expressed large ideals
regarding his own profession. In time he became a first-class pupil
at the school, and with infinite trouble gained the regulation "honourable
mention." But his parents no longer sent him any money; it became
necessary for him to gain his living, and he was already tired of
earning a few francs by assisting an architect incapable of drawing
his own plans. By the aid of his master, Dequersonniere, he gained
a medal for a plan of a villa, and this brought him prominently under
the notice of Margaillan, a wealthy building contractor, whose daughter
Regine he married soon afterwards. The marriage was not a success;
his wife was always ailing, and the two children which were born to
them were so delicate as to cause constant anxiety. His business relations
with his father-in-law were a failure, some of his ventures resulting
in heavy loss, and Margaillan soon thrust him aside. His only satisfaction
was that he had been able to repay to his parents the money they advanced
for his education in Paris. L'Oeuvre.

DUBUCHE (MADAME LOUIS), wife
of the preceding. See Regine Margaillan. L'Oeuvre.

DUCAT, a franc-tireur
of the woods at Dieulet. He was formerly a bailiff at Blainville,
but had to leave on account of a criminal charge against him. Why do they take them, if they do not
desire them? They COVET them for purposes of gain, convenience, lust of dominion, of sensual
gratification, of pride and ostentation. They break the tenth commandment, and pluck down upon
their heads the plagues that are written in the book. LEVASSEUR (HENRIETTE), daughter of the
preceding, and twin sister of Maurice.

After the death of her father she gave up the whole of her share of his property in order
to retrieve to some extent the foolish conduct of her brother. Fortunately she had the chance
soon after to marry Weiss, with whom she lived happily. On the morning of the battle of Sedan,
Henriette, fearing that her husband was in danger at Bazeilles, where
he had gone to look after a house he had recently bought, decided
to follow him there.

By this time the fighting was going on fiercely, and when, after the greatest difficulties and dangers,
she arrived at Bazeilles, she was only in time to see her husband shot before her eyes. She took refuge
at Remilly, at the house of her uncle Fouchard, and devoted herself to the care of the wounded
in the battle. Among these was Jean Macquart, who along with Maurice had escaped from captivity.
After the war with Prussia was over, Maurice unfortunately threw in his lot with the Communists,
and when Henriette followed him to Paris it was to find that he had been fatally wounded in
the fighting there. By an extraordinary chance, the wound was inflicted by his former comrade,
Jean Macquart, who had remained in the regular army when Maurice joined the Communist ranks.
The death of Maurice in this way put an end to the possibility of a dawning love idyll between
Henriette and Jean Macquart. La Debacle.

LEVASSEUR (MAURICE), twin brother of the preceding. Everything was sacrificed by his father and
sister in order that he might become an advocate, but when he went to Paris to complete his
education he took part in every kind of foolishness and dissipation. In July, 1870, he had just
been admitted to the Bar, when the outbreak of war found him full
of enthusiasm, and he at once enlisted in the 106th Regiment of the
line, commanded by Colonel de Vineuil.

He was put into the squad of Jean Macquart, against whom he had at first an aversion. Later,
the kindness of Jean when he was worn out with fatigue practically saved his life, and they became
close comrades, Maurice in turn saving Jean by carrying him, severely wounded, from the battlefield
of Sedan. Maurice was of a highly strung, nervous temperament, and the repeated disasters of the
campaign drove him to madness.

[Footnote A: Jarchi, the most eminent of the Jewish writers, (if we except perhaps the Egyptian
Maimonides,) who wrote seven hundred years ago, in his comment on this stealing and making
merchandize of men, gives the meaning thus:--"Using a man against his will, as a servant lawfully
purchased; yea though he should use his services ever so little, only to the value of a farthing,
or use but his arm to lean on to support him, if he be forced so to act as a servant, the person
compelling him but once to do so shall die as a thief, whether he has sold him or not."]

The Hebrew word, Gaunab, here rendered stealeth, means the taking from another what belongs
to him, whether it be by violence or fraud; the same word is used in the eighth commandment,
and prohibits both robbery and theft.

The crime specified is that of depriving SOMEBODY of the ownership of a man. Is this somebody
a master? and is the crime that of depriving a master of his servant? Then it would have been
"he that stealeth" a servant, not "he that stealeth a man." If the crime had been the taking
of an individual from another, then the term used would have been expressive of that relation,
and most especially if it was the relation of property and proprietor!

The crime, as stated in the passage, is three-fold--man stealing, selling and holding. All
are put on a level, and whelmed under one penalty--DEATH. This somebody deprived of the ownership
of man, is the man himself, robbed of personal ownership. Joseph said to the servants of Pharoah,
"Indeed I was stolen away out of the land of the Hebrews." Gen. xl. 15. How stolen? His brethren
took him and sold him as an article of merchandize. Contrast this penalty for man-stealing
with that for property-stealing. Exod. xxii. If a man stole an ox and killed or sold it, he
was to restore five oxen; if he had neither sold nor killed it, the penalty was two oxen. The
selling or the killing being virtually a deliberate repetition of the crime, the penalty was
more than doubled.

But in the case of stealing a man, the first act drew down the utmost power of punishment;
however often repeated, or however aggravated the crime, human penalty could do no more. The
fact that the penalty for man-stealing was death, and the penalty for property-stealing, the
mere restoration of double, shows that the two cases were adjudicated on totally different
principles. The man stolen might be past labor, and his support a burden, yet death was the
penalty, though not a cent's worth of property value was taken. The penalty for stealing property
was a mere property penalty. However large the amount stolen, the payment of double wiped out
the score. It might have a greater money value than a thousand men, yet death was never the
penalty, nor maiming, nor branding, nor even stripes. Whatever the kind, or the amount stolen,
the unvarying penalty was double of the same kind. Why was not the rule uniform? When a man
was stolen why not require the thief to restore double of the same kind--two men, or if he
had sold him, five men? Do you say that the man-thief might not have them? So the ox-thief
might not have two oxen, or if he had killed it, five. But if God permitted men to hold men
as property, equally with oxen, the man-thief could get men with whom to pay the penalty, as
well as the ox-thief, oxen.

Further, when property was stolen, the whole of the legal penalty was a compensation to the
person injured. But when a man was stolen, no property compensation was offered. To tender
money as an equivalent, would have been to repeat the outrage with the intolerable aggravations
of supreme insult and impiety. Compute the value of a MAN in money! Throw dust into the scale
against immortality! The law recoiled from such outrage and blasphemy. To have permitted the
man-thief to expiate his crime by restoring double, would have been making the repetition of
crime its atonement. But the infliction of death for man-stealing exacted from the guilty wretch
the utmost possibility of reparation. It wrung from him, as he gave up the ghost, a testimony
in blood, and death groans, to the infinite dignity and worth of man,--a proclamation to the
universe, voiced in mortal agony, that MAN IS INVIOLABLE,--a confession shrieked in phrenzy
at the grave's mouth--"I die accursed, and God is just." 

GONIN, a family of fisher-folks who lived at Bonneville. It consisted of Gonin, his wife, and one little
girl. A cousin of the wife, named Cuche, came to live with them after his house had been washed
away by the sea. Gonin soon after fell into bad health, and his wife and Cuche treated him so
badly that the police talked of an inquiry. Pauline Quenu tried to reform the little girl, who had been allowed
to grow up wild. La Joie de Vivre.

GORJU, a pupil of Dequersonniere, and himself a future architect. On one of the walls of the
studio one could read this brief statement: "The 7th June, Gorju has said that he cared nothing
for Rome. Signed, Godemard." L'Oeuvre.

GOUJET, a blacksmith from the Departement du Nord, who came to Paris and got employment in a manufactory
of bolts. "Behind the silent quietude of his life lay buried a great sorrow: his father in a
moment of drunken madness had killed a fellow-workman with a crowbar, and after arrest had hanged
himself in his cell with a pocket-handkerchief." Goujet and his mother, who lived with him, always
seemed to feel this horror weighing upon them, and did their best to redeem it by strict uprightness.
"He was a giant of twenty-three, with rosy cheeks and blue eyes, and the strength of a Hercules.
In the workshop he was known as Gueule d'Or, on account of his yellow beard. With his square
head, his heavy frame, torpid after the hard work at the anvil, he was like a great animal,
dull of intellect and good of heart." For a time the Coupeaus were his neighbours, and he came to love
Gervaise with a perfectly innocent affection, which survived all disillusionments, and subsisted
up to the time of her death. It was he who lent her money to start a laundry, and afterwards
repeatedly assisted her when in difficulties. L'Assommoir.

GOUJET (MADAME), mother of the preceding, was a lace-mender, and lived with her son in part
of the house first occupied by the Coupeaus. She showed much kindness to them, though she
was distressed by her son's infatuation for Gervaise, and did not altogether approve of his
lending her money to start a laundry. Notwithstanding this, she continued to assist Gervaise
until neglect of work entrusted made it impossible to do so longer. She died in October, 1868,
of acute rheumatism. L'Assommoir.

GOURAUD (BARON), was made a Baron by Napoleon I, and was a Senator under Napoleon III. "With his
vast bulk, his bovine face, his elephantine movements, he boasted a delightful rascality; he
sold himself majestically, and committed the greatest infamies in the name of duty and conscience."
La Curee.

GOURD (M.), at one time valet to the Duc de Vaugelade, and afterwards doorkeeper in the tenement-house
in Rue de Choiseul which belonged to M. Vabre, and was occupied by
the Campardons, the Josserands, and others.

He spent much of his time spying on the tenants, and posed as guardian
of the morals of the establishment.

Pot-Bouille.

GOURD (MADAME), wife of the preceding. She was the widow of a bailiff at Mort-la-Ville, and she
and her present husband owned a house there. She was exceedingly stout, and suffered from an
affection of the legs which prevented her from walking. Pot-Bouille.

GRADELLE, brother of Madame Quenu, senr., and uncle of Florent and Quenu. He was a prosperous pork-butcher
in Paris, and after Florent's arrest he took young Quenu into his business. He died suddenly, without
leaving a will, and Quenu succeeded to the business, and to a considerable sum of money which
was found hidden at the bottom of a salting-tub. Le Ventre de Paris.

GRAND-DRAGON (LE), one of the band of brigands led by Beau-Francois.

La Terre.

GRANDE (LA), elder daughter of Joseph Casimir Fouan, and sister of Pere Fouan, Michel Mouche, and
Laure Badeuil. Married to a neighbour, Antoine Pechard, she brought to him seven acres of land against
eighteen which he had of his own. Early left a widow, she turned out her only daughter, who, against
her mother's will, wished to marry a poor lad named Vincent Bouteroue.

The girl and her husband died of want, leaving two children, Palmyre and Hilarion, whom their grandmother
refused to assist. At eighty years of age, respected and feared by the Fouan family, not for
her age but for her fortune, she exacted the obedience of all, and still directed the management
of her land. She bitterly reproached her brother Louis for dividing his property between his
children, and warned him that he need not come to her when they had turned him into the street,
a threat which she carried into effect. She took delight in the squabbles of the Fouan family,
exciting their cupidity by promising them a share of her property at her death. Meantime she
made a will which was so complicated that she hoped it would lead to endless lawsuits amongst
her heirs. La Terre.

GRANDGUILLOT, a notary at Plassans. He embezzled large sums belonging to his clients, among
whom was Dr. Pascal Rougon, and thereafter fled to Switzerland. Le
Docteur Pascal.

GRANDJEAN (M.), son of a sugar-refiner of Marseilles. He fell in love with Helene Mouret, a young
girl of great beauty, but without fortune; his friends bitterly opposed the match, and a secret
marriage followed, the young couple finding it difficult to make ends meet, till the death of
an uncle brought them ten thousand francs a year. By this time Grandjean had taken an intense
dislike for Marseilles, and decided to remove to Paris. The day after his arrival there he was
seized with illness, and eight days later he died, leaving his wife with one daughter, a young
girl of ten. Une Page d'Amour.

GRANDJEAN (MADAME HELENE), wife of the preceding. See Helene Mouret.

GRANDJEAN (JEANNE), born 1842, was the daughter of M. Grandjean and Helene Mouret, his wife. She
inherited much of the neurosis of her mother's family along with
a consumptive tendency derived from her father, and from an early
age had been subject to fits and other nervous attacks.

One of these illnesses, more sudden and severe than usual, caused her mother to summon Doctor
Deberle, and thus led to an intimacy which had disastrous results. Jeanne's jealous affection
for her mother amounted almost to a mania, and when she came to suspect that Dr. Deberle had
become in a sense her rival, she worked herself into such a nervous
state that she exposed herself to a chill, and having become seriously
ill, died in a few days, at the age of thirteen.

Une Page d'Amour.

GRANDMORIN (LE PRESIDENT), one of the directors of the Western Railway Company. "Born in 1804,
substitute at Digne on the morrow of the events in 1830, then at Fontainebleau, then at Paris,
he had afterwards filled the posts of procurator at Troyes, advocate-general at Rennes, and finally
first president at Rouen. A multi-millionaire, he had been member of the County Council since
1855, and on the day he retired he had been made Commander of the
Legion of Honour."

He owned a mansion at Paris in Rue du Rocher, and often resided with his sister, Madame Bonnehon,
at Doinville. His private life was not unattended by scandal, and his relations with Louisette,
the younger daughter of Madame Misard, led to her death. A somewhat similar connection with Severine
Aubry, a ward of his own, had less immediately serious consequences, as he arranged for her marriage
to Roubaud, an employee of the railway company, whom he took under his protection. Three years later
Roubaud learned the truth by chance, and murdered Grandmorin in the Havre express between
Malaunay and Barentin.

The President left a fortune of over three and a half million francs, among other legacies being
one to Severine Roubaud of the mansion-house of Croix-de-Maufras.
La Bete Humaine.

GRANDMORIN (BERTHE), daughter of the preceding, was the wife of a magistrate, M. de Lachesnaye.
She was a narrow-minded and avaricious woman, who affected ignorance of her father's real character,
and the influence of her husband tended to increase her meanness. After the murder of President
Grandmorin, when vague suspicions fell on Roubaud, Berthe took up a position antagonistic to
her old play-fellow Severine Roubaud, in the hope that a legacy left by Grandmorin to her would
be cut down. La Bete Humaine.

GRANDSIRE (M.), the justice of peace who assisted the Huberts in making the necessary arrangements
for their adoption of Angelique. Le Reve.

GRANOUX (ISIDORE), one of the group of conservatives who met in Pierre Rougon's yellow room to declaim
against the Republic. La Fortune des Rougon.

GRAS (MADAME), an old lady living in the Rue des Orties, who boarded and lodged young children
for a small sum. When Denise Baudu got a situation in "The Ladies'Paradise," she put her young
brother Pepe under the charge of Madame Gras for a time.

Au Bonheur des Dames.

GREGOIRE (CECILE), daughter of Leon Gregoire. Her parents were devoted to her, and brought
her up in happy ignorance, allowing her to do much as she liked. They taught her to be charitable,
and made her dispense their little gifts to the poor; these were always in kind, as they held
that money was likely to be misused. When the great strike broke out at Montsou, Cecile could
comprehend nothing of the revolt of the poor, or the fury with which they regarded those better
off than themselves, and when she fell into the hands of a fierce crowd was almost paralysed under
the attack of La Brule and of Pere Bonnemort, from which she escaped with difficulty. A little later
she chanced to call on a charitable errand at Maheu's house, and unfortunately was left alone for
a few moments with Bonnemort, who was now supposed to be helpless. The sight of her seemed,
however, to waken memories in the old man, for in an accession of madness he found strength to throw himself
upon the poor girl and strangle her. Germinal.

GREGOIRE (EUGENE), grandfather of Leon Gregoire. He inherited the share in the Montsou mine bought
by his father, but the dividends at that time were small, and as he had foolishly invested the remainder
of the paternal fortune in a company that came to grief, he lived meanly enough. The share passed
to his son Felicien. Germinal.

GREGOIRE (FELICIEN), son of the preceding and father of Leon Gregoire. The family fortune began
with him, for the value of the share in the Montsou mine had greatly increased, and he was able
to buy the dismembered estate of Piolaine, which he acquired as national property for a ludicrous
sum. However, bad years followed; it was necessary to await the conclusion of the revolutionary
catastrophes, and afterwards Napoleon's bloody fall. The little fortune of Felicien Gregoire
passed to his son Leon. Germinal.

GREGOIRE (HONORE), great-grandfather of Leon Gregoire. He was in 1760 steward on the estate of
Piolaine, a property which belonged to Baron Desrumaux. When the Montsou treaty was made, Honore,
who had laid up savings to the amount of some fifty thousand francs,
yielded tremblingly to his master's unshakable faith.

He gave up ten thousand francs, and took a share in the Montsou Company, though with the fear of robbing
his children of that sum. When he died his share passed to his son
Eugene. Germinal.

GREGOIRE (LEON), great-grandson of Honore Gregoire. It was he who profited at a stupefying rate
of progress by the timid investment of his ancestor. Those poor ten thousand francs grew and
multiplied with the company's prosperity. Since 1820 they had brought in cent for cent ten thousand
francs. In 1844 they had produced twenty thousand; in 1850, forty. During two years the dividend
had reached the prodigious figure of fifty thousand francs; the value of the share, quoted at
the Lille Bourse at a million, had centrupled in a century. Six months later an industrial crisis
broke out; the share fell to six hundred thousand francs.

But Leon refused to be alarmed, for he maintained an obstinate faith in the mine. When the great
strike broke out he would not be persuaded of its seriousness, and refused to admit any danger,
until he saw his daughter struck by a stone and savagely assaulted by the crowd. Afterwards
he desired to show the largeness of his views, and spoke of forgetting and forgiving everything.
With his wife and daughter Cecile he went to carry assistance to the Maheus, a family who had suffered
sadly in the strike. Cecile was unfortunately left alone with old Bonnemort, Maheu's father,
who in a sudden frenzy attacked the girl and strangled her. This terrible blow entirely shadowed
the lives of Gregoire and his wife. Germinal.

GREGOIRE (MADAME LEON), wife of the preceding, was the daughter of a druggist at Marchiennes.
She was a plain, penniless girl, whom he adored, and who repaid him with happiness. She shut
herself up in her household, having no other will but her husband's. No difference of tastes
separated them, their desires were mingled in one idea of comfort; and they had thus lived
for forty years, in affection and little mutual services. Germinal.

GRESHAM, a jockey who, it was said, had always bad luck. He rode Lusignan in the Grand Prix
de Paris. Nana.

GROGNET, a perfumer in Rue de Grammont, whose business was ruined by the growth of Octave Mouret's
great establishment. Au Bonheur des Dames.

GROSBOIS, a Government surveyor who had also a small farm at Magnolles, a little village near
Rognes. Liable to be summoned from Orgeres to Beaugency for purposes of survey, he left the management
of his own land to his wife, and in the course of these constant excursions he acquired such
a habit of drinking that he was never seen sober. That mattered little, however; the more drunk
he was the better he seemed to see; he never made a wrong measurement or an error in calculation. People
listened to him with respect, for he had the reputation of being
a sly, acute man. La Terre.

GUENDE (MADAME DE), a friend of the Saccards. She was a woman well known in the society of the Second
Empire. La Curee.

GUEULE-D'OR, the sobriquet of Goujet. L'Assommoir.
GUEULIN, nephew of Narcisse Bachelard, was a clerk in an insurance
office. Directly after office hours he used to meet his uncle, and
never left him, going the round of all the cafes in his wake. "Behind
the huge, ungainly figure of the one you were sure to see the pale,
wizened features of the other." He said that he avoided all love affairs,
as they invariably led to trouble and complications, but he was ultimately
caught by his uncle in compromising circumstances with Mademoiselle
Fifi, who was a protegee of the old man. Bachelard insisted on their
marriage, and gave the girl a handsome dowry. Pot-Bouille.

GUIBAL
(MADAME), wife of a barrister well known at the Palais de Justice,
who led, it was said, a somewhat free life. The husband and wife were
never seen together, and Madame Guibal consoled herself with M. De
Boves, from whom she derived such large sums of money that he found
difficulty in carrying on his own establishment. She was a tall, thin
woman, with red hair, and a somewhat cold, selfish expression. Au
Bonheur des Dames.

GUICHON (MADEMOISELLE), the office-keeper at the
railway station at Havre. She was a slim, fair woman about thirty
years of age, who owed her post to M. Dabadie, the chief station-master,
with whom it was generally believed she was on intimate terms. Nevertheless
Madame Lebleu, who lived on the same corridor and kept perpetual watch,
had never been able to discover anything. La Bete Humaine.

GUIGNARD,
a peasant who belonged to the same village as Zephyrin Lacour. He
desired to sell his house, and Zephyrin and Rosalie, his sweetheart,
looked forward to buying it. Une Page d'Amour.

GUILLAUME, a peasant
of Rognes. He owned a piece of land beside the hovel of Hyacinthe
Fouan. La Terre.

GUILLAUME, a young swineherd at La Borderie. He
afterwards became a soldier. La Terre.

GUIRAUD (M. DE), a magistrate
of Paris, who was a friend of Doctor Deberle and visited at his house.
Une Page d'Amour.

GUIRAUD (MADAME DE), wife of the preceding.

GUIRAUDE
(MADAME), mother of Sophie and Valentin, patients of Dr. Pascal. Her
husband died of phthisis, and she herself suffered from a slow decomposition
of the blood. She died soon after her son Valentin. Le Docteur Pascal.

GUNDERMANN,
the great Jew banker, master of the Bourse and of the financial world.
He was a man of over sixty years of age, who had long suffered from
ill-health. Constantly engaged in business of the greatest magnitude,
he never went to the Bourse himself; indeed, he even pretended that
he sent no official representatives there. He was not on friendly
terms with Saccard, and when the Universal Bank was started he placed
himself in antagonism towards it. The wild speculation in the shares
of the bank gave him his chance; his principle was that when a share
rose above its true value a reaction was bound to follow. Accordingly,
when the bank shares rose to two thousand francs he began to sell,
and though Saccard by steady buying forced them to over three thousand
francs, he continued to sell. Even so late as the 16th century, the common record of marriages in the old German
Chronicles was "A. BOUGHT B."

The Hebrew word translated buy, is, like other words, modified by the nature of the subject
to which it is applied. Eve says, "I have gotten (bought) a man of the Lord." She named him
Cain, that is, bought. "He that heareth reproof, getteth (buyeth) understanding", Prov. xv.
32. So in Isa. xi. 11. "The Lord shall set his hand again to recover (to buy) the remnant of
his people." So Ps. lxxviii. 54. He brought them to this mountain which his right hand had
purchased, i.e. gotten. Jer. xiii. 4. "Take the girdle that thou hast got" (bought.) Neh. v.
8. "We of our ability have redeemed (bought) our brethren that were sold to the heathen." Here
"bought" is not applied to persons who were made slaves, but to those taken out of slavery.
Prov. 8. 22. "The Lord possessed (bought) me in the beginning of his way before his works of
old." Prov. xix. 8. "He that getteth (buyeth) wisdom loveth his own soul." Prov. xvi. 16. "How
much better is it to get (buy) wisdom than gold?" Finally, to buy is a secondary meaning of
the Hebrew word Kana.

4. Even at this day the word buy is used to describe the procuring of servants, where slavery
is abolished. In the British West Indies, where slaves became apprentices in 1834, they are
still "bought." This is now the current word in West India newspapers. So a few years since
in New-York, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, and even now in New-Jersey servants are "bought" as
really as in Virginia. And the different senses in which the same word is used in the two states,
puts no man in a quandary, whose common sense amounts to a modicum.

So under the system of legal indenture in Illinois, servants now are "bought."[A] A short time
since, hundreds of foreigners who came to this country were "bought" annually. By voluntary
contract they engaged to work for their purchasers a given time to pay for their passage. This
class of persons called "redemptioners," consisted at one time of thousands. Multitudes are
bought out of slavery by themselves or others, and remove into free states. Under the same
roof with the writer is a "servant bought with money." A few weeks since, she was a slave.
As soon as "bought," she was a slave no longer. Alas! for our leading politicians if "buying"
men makes them "chattels." The Whigs say that Benton and Rives were "bought" by the administration
with the surplus revenue; and the other party, that Clay and Webster were "bought" by the Bank.
The histories of the revolution tell us that Benedict Arnold was "bought" by British gold.
Did that make him an article of property? When a northern clergyman marries a rich southern
widow, country gossip hits off the indecency with this current phrase, "The cotton bags bought
him." When Robert Walpole said, "Every man has his price, and whoever will pay it can buy him,"
and when John Randolph said, while the Missouri question was pending, "The northern delegation
is in the market; give me money enough, and I can buy them," they both meant just what they
said. When the temperance publications tell us that candidates for office buy men with whiskey;
and the oracles of street tattle, that the court, district attorney, and jury, in the late
trial of Robinson were bought, we have no floating visions of "chattels personal," man auctions,
or coffles.

[Footnote A: The following statute is now in force in the state of Illinois--"No negro, mulatto,
or Indian, shall at any time purchase any servant other than of their own complexion: and if
any of the persons aforesaid shall presume to purchase a white servant, such servant shall
immediately become free, and shall be so held, deemed, and taken."]

The transaction between Joseph and the Egyptians gives a clue to the meaning attached to "buy"
and "bought with money." See Gen. xlvii. 18-26. The Egyptians proposed to Joseph to become
servants, and that he should buy them. When the bargain was closed, Joseph said, "Behold I
have bought you this day," and yet it is plain that neither of the parties dreamed that the
persons bought were in any sense articles of property, but merely that they became thereby
obligated to labor for the government on certain conditions, as a compensation for the entire
support of themselves and families during the famine. And that the idea attached to "buy us,"
and "behold I have bought you," was merely the procuring of services voluntarily offered, and
secured by contract, as a return for value received, and not at all that the Egyptians were
bereft of their personal ownership, and made articles of property. And this buying of services
(they were to give one-fifth part of their crops to Pharaoh) is called in Scripture usage,
buying the persons. This case deserves special notice, as it is the only one where the whole
transaction of buying servants is detailed--the preliminaries, the process, the mutual acquiescence,
and the permanent relation resulting therefrom. In all other instances, the mere fact is stated
without entering into particulars. In this case, the whole process is laid open.

1. The persons "bought," sold themselves, and of their own accord.

2. Obtaining permanently the services of persons, or even a portion of them, is called "buying"
those persons. The objector, at the outset, assumes that servants were bought of third persons;
and thence infers that they were articles of property. This is sheer assumption. Not a single
instance is recorded, of a servant being sold by any one but himself; not a case, either under
the patriarchal, or the Mosaic systems, in which a master sold his servant. That the servants
who were "bought" sold themselves, is a fair inference from various passages of Scripture.

In Leviticus xxv. 47, the case of the Israelite, who became the servant of the stranger, the
words are, "If he SELL HIMSELF unto the stranger." The same word, and the same form of the
word, which, in the 47th verse, is rendered sell himself, is in the 39th verse of the same
chapter, rendered be sold; in Deut. xxviii. 68, the same word is rendered "be sold." Here it
is the Hithpael conjugation, which is reflexive in its force, and, like the middle voice in
Greek, represents what an individual does for himself; or in his own concerns; and should manifestly
have been rendered, ye shall offer yourselves for sale. For a clue to Scripture usage on this
point, see 1 Kings xxi. 20, 25--"Thou hast sold thyself to work evil." "There was none like
to Ahab that sold himself to work wickedness."--2 Kings xvii. 17. "They used divination and
enchantments, and sold themselves to do evil."--Isa. l. 1. "For your iniquities have ye sold
yourselves." Isa. lii. 3, "Ye have sold yourselves FOR NOUGHT, and ye shall be redeemed without
money." See also, Jeremiah xxxiv. 14--Romans vii. 14, and vi. 16--John viii. 34, and the case
of Joseph and the Egyptians, already quoted.

Again, if servants were bought of third persons, where are the instances? In the purchase of
wives, though spoken of rarely, it is generally stated that they were bought of third persons.
Is it not a fair inference, if servants were bought of third persons, that there would sometimes
have been such an intimation?

II.-THE LEADING DESIGN OF THE MOSAIC LAWS RELATING TO MASTERS AND SERVANTS, WITH AN ENUMERATION
OF THE RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES SECURED TO SERVANTS.

The general object of those statutes, which prescribed the relations of master and servant,
was the good of both parties--but more especially the good of the servants. While the interests
of the master were specially guarded from injury, those of the servants were promoted.

These laws were a merciful provision for the poorer classes, both of the Israelites and Strangers.
Not laying on burdens, but lightening them--they were a grant of privileges--a bestowment of
favors.

1. No servant from the Strangers, could remain a servant in the family of an Israelite, without
becoming a proselyte. Compliance with this condition was the price of the privilege.--Genesis
xvii. 9-14, 23, 27.

2. Excommunication from the family was a PUNISHMENT.--Genesis xxi. 14-Luke xvi. 2-4.

3. The fact that every Hebrew servant could COMPEL his master to keep him after the six years
contract had, expired, shows that the system was framed to advance the interests and gratify
the wishes of the servant quite as much as those of the master. If the servant demanded it,
the law obliged the master to retain him in his household, however little he might need his
services, or great his dislike to the individual. Deut. xv. 12-17, and Exodus xxi. 2-6.

4. The rights and privileges guaranteed by law to all servants. (1.) They were admitted into
covenant with God. Deut. xxix. 10-13.

(2.) They were invited guests at all the national and family festivals of the household in
which they resided. Exodus xii. 43-44; Deut. xii. 12, 18, and xvi. 10-16.

(3.) They were statedly instructed in morality and religion. Deut. xxxi. 10-13; Joshua viii.
33-35; 2 Chronicles xvii. 8-9.

(4.) They were released from their regular labor nearly ONE HALF OF THE WHOLE TIME. During
which, the law secured to them their entire support; and the same public and family instruction
that was provided for the other members of the Hebrew community.

(a.) The Law secured to them the whole of every seventh year; Lev. xxv. 3-6; thus giving to
those servants that remained such during the entire period between the jubilees, eight whole
years (including the Jubilee year) of unbroken rest.

(b.) Every seventh day. This in forty-two years, (the eight being subtracted from the fifty)
would amount to just six years.

(c.) The three great annual festivals. The Passover, which commenced on the 15th of the 1st
month, and lasted seven days, Deut. xvi. 3, 8. The Pentecost, or Feast of Weeks, which began
on the sixth day of the third month, and lasted seven days. Lev. xxiii. 15-21. And the Feast
of Tabernacles, which commenced on the 15th of the seventh month, and lasted eight days. Deut.
xvi. 13, 15; Lev. xxiii. 34-39. Nana.

LULU, a dog which belonged to Nana. Nana.

LUSIGNAN, a racehorse in the stable of Vandeuvres. Mounted by Gresham, it was the favourite in the race
for the Grand Prix de Paris. Nana.

M MACQUART, a poacher and smuggler who lived at Plassans in a hovel
adjoining the Fouque property.

His reputation was of the worst, and "although no crimes had actually
been brought home to him, the first suspicions always fell upon him
whenever a theft or murder had been perpetrated in the country."

He frequently disappeared for long periods, but during his short sojourns in the town he drank
to great excess. He became the lover of Adelaide Fouque in 1789, less than a year after the death
of her husband, and had two children by her, Antoine and Ursule Macquart. A man of violent
and unrestrained passions, and of incorrigibly lazy habits, he retained
complete influence over Adelaide, and they lived in the same relationship
for over twenty years.

About 1810, Macquart was killed on the frontier by a custom-house officer while he was endeavouring
to smuggle a cargo of Geneva watches into France.

Adelaide was sole legatee, the estate consisting of the hovel at Plassans
and the carbine of the deceased, which a smuggler loyally brought back
to her. La Fortune des Rougon.

MACQUART (ANTOINE), born 1789, son of Macquart the smuggler and Adelaide
Fouque; was drawn in the conscription in 1809. On his return to Plassans,
he found that his half-brother Pierre had sold the family property
and had appropriated the proceeds.

Being a confirmed drunkard, he was averse from work of any kind, but in order to support himself
he learned the trade of basket-making.

In 1826 he married Josephine Gavaudan, a market-woman, whom he afterwards allowed to support
him. They had three children, Lisa, Gervaise, and Jean. His wife died in 1850, and soon after
his daughter Gervaise and his son Jean, who had assisted to keep him in idleness, ran off.
He had a bitter ill-will towards his brother Pierre Rougon, and, chiefly with a view to his
annoyance, expressed strong Republican principles. For the same reason he took every opportunity of
teaching these principles to his young nephew Silvere Mouret. After the Coup d'Etat he took an
active share in the agitation which resulted in a Republican rising.
When the Insurgents left Plassans, he remained with a few men to
overawe the inhabitants.

He and his whole band were, however, taken prisoners by the citizens under the leadership of Pierre Rougon.
He was assisted to escape by Madame Felicite Rougon, who promised him a sum of money on condition
that he would bring about an attack on the Town Hall by the Republicans. He did so the same
night, and an ambush having been prepared by the Rougons, a number of lives were sacrificed. He
thereafter left the country. La Fortune des Rougon. Some time afterwards he returned to France, and
bought a small house at Les Tulettes, about three leagues from Plassans.

He fitted up his establishment by degrees, and even became possessed of a horse and trap. Where the
money came from no one knew, but it was believed that his brother
Pierre Rougon was keeping him.

Notwithstanding this, he had great ill-will towards the Rougons, and
lost no opportunity of annoying them.

Partly with this object, and partly at the instigation of Abbe Fenil,
who wished to be revenged on Abbe Faujas, he contrived the escape
of Francois Mouret from the asylum at Les Tulettes; as result, Mouret
returned to Plassans, and setting fire to his house, caused the death
of Abbe Faujas, himself perishing in the flames.

La Conquete de Plassans. Macquart lived to an old age at Les Tulettes, though he increasingly
gave way to drunkenness. His relations with the Rougons were friendly, but he was hated by Felicite
on account of his knowledge of the origin of the family fortune. At eighty-four years of age he
was still healthy, but his flesh was so saturated with alcohol that it seemed to be preserved by
it. One day, as he was sitting helpless with drink and smoking his pipe, he set fire to his clothes,
and his body, soaked as it was with ardent spirits, was burned to the
last bone. Felicite Rougon chanced to enter the house just as the
conflagration began, but she did nothing to stop it, and went silently
away.

The combustion was so complete that there was nothing left to bury,
and the family had to content itself with having masses said for the
repose of the dead.

When Macquart's will was opened, it was found that he had left all his money for the erection
of a magnificent tomb for himself, with weeping angels at the head and foot. Le Docteur Pascal.
MACQUART (MADAME ANTOINE), wife of the preceding. See Josephine Gavaudan. MACQUART (GERVAISE), born
1828, was a daughter of Antoine Macquart, and was slightly lame from birth. She was apprenticed
to a laundress, but at an early age had two children to a journeyman tanner named Lantier. [*]
Soon after the death of her mother, in 1850, she ran off to Paris with Lantier and her children,
Claude, a boy of eight, and Etienne, aged four. La Fortune des Rougon. The party had only been
in the city a few weeks when Lantier ran off with a girl named Adele, leaving Gervaise and
the children unprovided for. She got work in the laundry of Madame
Fauconnier, and not long after received an offer of marriage from
Coupeau, a respectable zinc-worker, which after some hesitation she
accepted.

The marriage took place, and for a considerable time things prospered, one child, a daughter
named Nana being born. An accident to Coupeau, who fell from a roof
and was seriously injured, led to a gradual change; formerly temperate
and industrious, he became unwilling to work, and began to spend his
time in public-houses.

Gervaise had meantime taken a shop with money borrowed from the Goujets,
and had started a laundry in it.

She was at first successful, but in time grew lazy and fond of good
living, while Coupeau continued idle and became increasingly intemperate.

Business began to go, and Gervaise became more careless, even taking more drink occasionally than
she had been wont to do.

About this time Lantier, her former lover, appeared again, and made friends with Coupeau, who agreed
to take him into the house as a lodger.

After that, the descent of Gervaise was rapid. Lantier never paid anything for his support, Coupeau
drank more heavily than ever, and Gervaise, who was gradually drifting
into intemperance, resumed her old connection with her lover.

All the time work was being neglected, and debts were accumulating with alarming rapidity. Eventually
Madame Virginie Poisson took over the shop, and with it Lantier, who transferred his affections along
with the lease, and the Coupeaus removed into a small house high up in the same building. Coupeau
suffered from repeated attacks of delirium tremens, and eventually died in an asylum. Gervaise continued to
sink still lower, until no work was too menial or too repulsive for
her to undertake for the price of drink, and one day in the winter
of 1869 she was found dead in a garret of that great tenement house
where she had passed so much of her life.

L'Assommoir. Her sister, Lisa Quenu, the pork-butcher, did not come to her assistance. Lisa did
not like people who were unfortunate, and she was ashamed that Gervaise should have married a workman.
Le Ventre de Paris. Her son Etienne sent her small sums of money from time to time while he
was in a situation at Lille. Germinal. [*] These two are the only children of Gervaise and Lantier
mentioned by M. Zola in La Fortune des Rougon, L'Assommoir, L'Oeuvre, and Germinal. In La Bete
Humaine, however, the hero, Jacques Lantier, is stated to have been a child of these parents. MACQUART
(JEAN), born 1811, son of Antoine Macquart, was apprenticed to a carpenter. A quiet, industrious
lad, Jean's father took advantage of his simple nature and made him give up his whole earnings to
assist in keeping him in idleness. Like his sister Gervaise, he ran off
soon after the death of his mother. La Fortune des Rougon. He entered
the army, and, after seven years of soldiering was discharged in
1859.

When he had left the ranks he turned up at Bazoches-le-Doyen with a comrade, a joiner like himself; and
he resumed his occupation with the latter's father, a master carpenter in the village. But his
heart was no longer in his work, and having been sent to La Borderie to make some repairs, he stayed
on to assist at the harvest, and eventually became a regular farm servant. He was not popular,
however, with the peasants, who resented his having had a trade before he came back to the soil. He became
acquainted at Rognes with Mouche and his daughters, Lise and Francoise, and eventually married
the latter, in spite of the determined opposition of her brother-in-law,
Buteau.

Notwithstanding his marriage, he remained a stranger, and, after
the death of his wife, went away, leaving everything in the hands
of her relatives.

The war with Germany had just broken out, and Jean, disgusted with his life, again enlisted
in the service of his country. La Terre.

He was made corporal in the 106th Regiment of the line, commanded by Colonel Vineuil. An excellent
soldier, and invaluable by reason of his former experience, his want
of education prevented him being promoted to higher rank.

Maurice Levasseur was in his company, and between the two men there was at first deep antagonism,
caused by difference of class and education, but little by little Jean was able to gain over the
other, till the two men became close friends.

In the fierce fighting at Sedan, each in turn saved the other's life. After the battle, they
were made prisoners, but escaped, Jean receiving a severe wound during their flight. They took refuge at Remilly
in the house of Fouchard, and Jean was nursed by Henriette Weiss, Levasseur's sister. Under her
care, the wounded man came to dream of the possibility of a life
of happiness with this woman, so tender, so sweet, and so active,
whose fate had been so sad.

But the chances of war were too hard; Maxime returned to Paris, and after the conclusion of the
war took part in the Communist rising, which Jean assisted to quell. By an extraordinary chance,
the two men, loving one another as brothers, came to be fighting on opposite sides, and it
was the hand of Jean that was fated to inflict the fatal wound upon his friend. He had killed
the brother of the woman he loved, and henceforth there could be nothing between them, so he
passed from her life, returning to assist in that cultivation of the soil which was needed to rejuvenate
his country. La Debacle. He settled at Valqueyras, near Plassans, where he married Melanie Vial,
the only daughter of a peasant farmer in easy circumstances, whose land he cultivated. Calm and
sensible, always at his plough, his wife simple and strong, he raised a large and healthy family
to assist in replenishing the soil exhausted by the horrors of war. Le Docteur Pascal. MACQUART (MADAME
JEAN), first wife of the preceding. See Francoise Mouche. La Terre. MACQUART
(MADAME JEAN), second wife of Jean Macquart.

See Melanie Vial.

Le Docteur Pascal. MACQUART (LISA), born 1827, daughter of Antoine Macquart. When a child of seven
she was taken as maid-servant by the wife of the postmaster at Plassans, whom she accompanied
to Paris on her removal there in 1839. La Fortune des Rougon. The old lady became very much
attached to the girl, and when she died left her all her savings, amounting to ten thousand francs.
Gradelle, a pork-butcher, who had become acquainted with Lisa by seeing her in the shop with
her mistress, offered her a situation. She accepted, and soon the whole place seemed to belong
to her; she enslaved Gradelle, his nephew Quenu, and even the smallest
kitchen-boy.

She became a beautiful woman, with a love of ease and the determination to secure it by steady application
to duty. After the sudden death of Gradelle, she married Quenu, who had succeeded to the business,
and they had one daughter, Pauline. Soon their affairs became so prosperous that Lisa induced her
husband to remove to a larger shop. On Florent's return from exile, she received him kindly, and
at once proposed to hand over to him his share of the money and property left by Gradelle, his
uncle, which, however, he refused to accept. After a time she became tired of always seeing her
brother-in-law about the house doing nothing, and was the means of making him accept the situation
as Inspector at the Fish Market. When she heard of the Revolutionary meetings in Lebigre's wine-shop
and of the leading part taken by Florent, she became greatly alarmed, more especially as Quenu
had begun to accompany his brother occasionally.

She succeeded in frightening her husband into giving up the meetings, and made it clear to Florent that
he was no longer welcome in her house. Alarmed by the gossip of Mlle. Saget and others as to the
progress of the conspiracy, she determined, after consultation with
Abbe Roustan, to secure the safety of her husband and herself by
informing the police of the plot.

On going to the prefect, however, she learned that he had all along
known of Florent's presence in Paris, and of the meetings, and was
only waiting a favourable opportunity of arresting the plotters.

She concealed the impending arrest from her husband and from Florent.

Notwithstanding her action in this matter, Lisa was not an ill-natured
or callous woman.

She was
only determined that nothing should come between her and a life of ease. In her there was much of her
father's nature, though she did not know it. She was merely a steady, sensible Macquart with
a logical desire for comfort, and to procuring this she gave all
her time and thought.

Le Ventre de Paris. She died in 1863 from decomposition of the blood. La Joie de Vivre. MACQUART
(URSULE), born 1791, daughter of Macquart and Adelaide Fouque; married in 1810 a hatter named Mouret
and went to live at Marseilles. She died of consumption in 1840, leaving three children. La
Fortune des Rougon. MACQUERON, a grocer and tavern-keeper at Rognes. He was a municipal councillor,
and deputy Mayor. He made some money by speculating in wines, and had since become incorrigibly
lazy, spending his time in fishing and shooting. Had his wife listened to him, they would have
shut up the shop, but she was so fiercely set on money-making that she would not do so. There
was a rivalry of long standing between the Macquerons and the Lengaignes, which frequently broke out
in open quarrels. Having succeeded in undermining Hourdequin's position as Mayor, Macqueron succeeded
him, but his triumph was of short duration, for some official scandal having arisen, he was
obliged to resign. La Terre. MACQUERON (MADAME COELINA), wife of the preceding, had a true passion
for money-making. She was continually quarrelling with her neighbour, Madame Lengaigne. La Terre.
MACQUERON (BERTHE), daughter of the preceding, was educated at a boarding-school at Cloyes, and
had learned to play the piano. She tolerated the attentions of Lequeu, the schoolmaster, whom she heartily
disliked, as she felt flattered by the notice of the only man of education whom she knew. She had
a fancy for the son of a neighbouring wheelwright, whom her parents would not allow her to see, and
she ultimately compromised herself so seriously with him that they had to consent to her marriage.
La Terre. MADELEINE, a little girl of ten years of age who was an
inmate of the institute founded by Princess d'Orviedo.

Her mother was unable to look after her properly, and placed her there in the hope that she would
be well cared for. L'Argent. MADELINE (ABBE), was sent to Rognes,
when that commune decided to have a cure to itself.

He came from a mountainous district, and disheartened by the flatness of the vast plain of La Beauce,
and especially by the religious indifference of his parishioners, he soon fell into ill-health,
on one occasion fainting while he was saying Mass. At the end of two years and a half he left Rognes
in a dying state, and returned to his native mountains. La Terre. MADINIER (M.) carried on business
as a cardboard manufacturer in part of the tenement occupied by the
Coupeaus and the Lorilleux.

The business was not prosperous, as he spent all his earnings on
drink.

He was one of Coupeau's witnesses on the occasion of his marriage to Gervaise Macquart, and was present
at the wedding dinner. L'Assommoir. MAFFRE (M.), a magistrate of Plassans and honorary Canon of
Saint-Saturnin's church.

La Conquete de Plassans. MAFFRE (ALPHONSE), second son of the magistrate at Plassans, aged eighteen
years. Restrained too much by their father, the two brothers Maffre were especially intimate
with Guillaume Porquier, who frequently led them into mischief. La Conquete de Plassans. MAFFRE (AMBROISE),
elder son of the magistrate at Plassans, aged twenty. La Conquete de Plassans. MAGINOT, inspector
of woods at Mezieres. He married Gilberte de Vineuil, but died a few years afterwards. La Debacle.
MAGINOT (MADAME), see Gilberte de Vineuil. MAHEU (ALZIRE), the fourth child of Toussaint Maheu,
aged nine years. She was deformed and delicate, but of precocious intelligence, and was able
to assist her mother in many ways, sacrificing herself always for
others.

She died of cold and hunger during the strike at Montsou. Germinal. MAHEU (CATHERINE), second child of Toussaint
Maheu, worked as a putter in the Voreux pit along with the other
members of her family.

She liked Etienne Lantier, but became the mistress of Chaval, who treated her so abominably
that she eventually returned home. As a result of the terrible catastrophe brought about by
Souvarine, she was imprisoned at the bottom of the pit along with Chaval and Etienne. A struggle
between the two men ensued, and Chaval was killed.

Days elapsed before rescue arrived, but before then Catherine had died in the arms of Etienne,
whom she had really loved all along. Germinal. MAHEU (ESTELLE), seventh child of Toussaint Maheu,
aged three months.

Her constant crying disturbed the household. Germinal. MAHEU (GUILLAUME),
great-grandfather of Toussaint Maheu.

When a boy of fifteen, he found rich coal at Requillart, the Montsou Company's first pit, and the
seam he discovered was named after him.

He died of old age at sixty. Germinal. MAHEU (HENRI), sixth child of Toussaint Maheu, aged
four years. Germinal. MAHEU (JEANLIN), third child of Toussaint Maheu, aged eleven years. He was employed
at the Voreux pit, and earned twenty sous a day. His nature was vicious, and he forced his companions
Bebert Levaque and Lydie Pierron to commit petty thefts, with the
proceeds of which he concealed himself in a disused mine. His criminal
tendencies increased until he was unable to resist the inclination
to kill one of the soldiers who guarded the Voreux pit during the
strike.

He accordingly waited till night, and leaping on the shoulders of
Jules, a little soldier from Brittany, thrust a knife into his throat
and killed him.

Germinal. MAHEU (LENORE), fifth child of Toussaint Maheu, aged six years. She was always fighting
with her brother Henri, who was very like her in appearance, both having large heads with light
yellow hair.

Germinal. MAHEU (NICOLAS), grandfather of Toussaint Maheu. He was killed by a landslip in the pit,
when he was barely forty years old. Germinal.

MAHEU (TOUSSAINT), son of old Bonnemort, and husband of La Maheude. He was considered one of the
best workmen in the Voreux pit, did not drink, and was liked and
respected by all his companions.

He had been for a considerable time under the influence of the doctrines taught by Etienne Lantier
when he was selected by his comrades to place their views before the officials of the company.
In the great strike which followed he took part, and in the attack
on the troops sent to guard the pit he was driven on by his wife to
join the aggressors.

He fell, shot through the heart, after the fatal volley fired by
the soldiers.

Germinal. MAHEU (VINCENT).

See Bonnemort. MAHEU (ZACHARIE), eldest child of Toussaint Maheu. He worked in the Voreux pit
along with his father, but was lazy and seized any opportunity of
pleasure.

He was married to Philomene Levaque, by whom he already had two children.

The strike interested him very little, and he spent most of his time playing crosse with Mouquet.
But when his sister Catherine was entombed in the pit he was one
of the first to come forward to the rescue, and he worked day and
night with frantic energy.

The ninth day, in his haste, he was imprudent enough to open his
lamp, and a sudden explosion of gas reduced him to a calcined, unrecognizable
mass. Germinal.

MAHEUDE (LA), wife of Toussaint Maheu. She was at first against the miners'strike,
but moved by the hardship of her lot and the poverty in which she
was forced to bring up her family, she ultimately urged her husband
to take an active part.

Even after she had seen him killed by the bullets of the soldiers, she was furious with those
who talked of submitting. But further tragedies broke her spirit; her son Zacharie was killed in an attempt
to rescue his sister, entombed at the bottom of the Voreux pit. Out
of charity the company allowed the afflicted woman to go underground
again, though she was past the usual age, and found employment for
her in the manipulation of a small ventilator.

Germinal. MAHOUDEAU, a sculptor. The son of a stonemason at Plassans, he attained great success at
the local art competitions, and came to Paris as the laureat of his town, with an allowance of
eight hundred francs per annum for four years.

In the capital, however, he found his level, failing in his competitions
at the School of Arts, and merely spending his allowance to no purpose;
so that in order to live he was obliged at the end of his term to
enter the employment of a manufacturer of church statues.

Later, however, he met with Claude Lantier and other companions from
Plassans, and under their influence his ambitions revived.

He installed himself in a studio in Rue du Cherche-Midi, and there
set about the production of a colossal work entitled La Vendangeuse
(the Vintage Girl), for which Madame Mathilde Jabouille served as
model.

For a time Chaine, who also came from Plassans, lived with Mahoudeau, but they quarrelled over Mathilde,
and ultimately separated.

After this Mahoudeau lived alone, in considerable poverty, until
he got employment from a manufacturer of artistic bronzes.

He then began to produce work which suited the popular taste, and
his productions began to be seen on middle-class chimney-pieces.

L'Oeuvre. MAIGRAT, the principal shop-keeper in Montsou. He was originally an overseer at the Voreux
pit, but, assisted by the company, started a business which grew to such proportions that he ultimately
crushed out most of the other retail traders. He was a greedy, rapacious
man, and during the strike made the women furious by refusing credit.

For other reasons also they hated him, and his shop was one of the
first places attacked by the maddened strikers. In terror Maigrat
took refuge on the roof, but his foot slipped, and he was dashed
to the ground, being killed on the spot.

Even this did not satisfy his assailants, for the frenzied women, led by La Brule, rushed forward
and mutilated the still quivering body. Germinal.

MAIGRAT (MADAME), wife of the preceding.

She was a pitiful creature who passed all her days over a ledger without even daring to lift her
head.

On the day of the attack by the strikers she was a witness of the death of her husband and of the
terrible events which followed.

Up at the window she stood motionless; but beneath the last gleams of the setting sun the confused faults
of the window-panes deformed her white face, which looked as though it were laughing. Germinal.
MALGRAS (LE PERE), a picture-dealer with whom Claude Lantier had frequent dealings. He was a thick-set
old man, with close-cropped white hair, and wore a dirty old coat that made him look like an untidy
cabman. Beneath this disguise was concealed a keen knowledge of art, combined with a ferocious
skill in bargaining. As a superb liar, moreover, he was without an
equal.

He was satisfied with a small profit, but never purchased in the
morning without knowing where to dispose of his purchase at night.

He viewed with disdain the modern methods of picture-dealing introduced
by Naudet, and like a cautious man he retired with a modest fortune
to a little house at Bois-Colombes.

L'Oeuvre. MALIGNON (M.), a young stockbroker who was supposed to have a large fortune and accordingly
was received everywhere in society. He posed as a critic of art, literature, and the drama, and pretended
to be bored with everything. Madame Deberle, being carried away by his attentions, was foolish enough
to promise to meet him at a flat which he had taken, but Madame Helene
Grandjean having warned her that Dr. Deberle had got wind of the affair,
the intended liaison came to nothing. And if it be doing to others as we would
have them do to us, to make them work for our own good alone, Paul should be called to order
for his hard sayings against human nature, especially for that libellous matter in Ephes. v.
29, "No man ever yet hated his own flesh, but nourisheth and cherisheth it."

3. As persons became servants FROM POVERTY, we argue that they were compensated, since they
frequently owned property, and sometimes a large amount. 2 Sam. xvi. 1. The extent of his possessions
can be inferred from the fact, that though the father of fifteen sons, he still employed twenty
servants, of whom he was the master.

A case is stated in Leviticus xxv. 47-55, where a servant, reduced to poverty, sells himself;
and it is declared that afterward he may be redeemed, either by his kindred, or by HIMSELF.
As he was forced to sell himself from sheer poverty he must not only have acquired property
after he became a servant, but a considerable sum.

If it had not been common for servants to possess, and acquire property, over which they had
the exclusive control, Gehazi, the servant of Elisha, would hardly have ventured to take a
large sum of money, (nearly $3000[A]) from Naaman, (2 Kings v. 22, 23.) As it was procured
by deceit, he was anxious to conceal the means used in getting it; but if the Israelitish servants,
like our slaves, could "own nothing, nor acquire any thing," to embark in such an enterprise
would have been consummate stupidity. The fact of having in his possession two talents of silver,
would of itself convict him of theft[B]. But since the possession and use of property by servants,
was common under the Mosaic system, he might have it, and invest or use it, without attracting
special attention. And that consideration alone would have been a strong motive to the act.
His master, while he rebukes him for using such means to get the money, not only does not take
it from him, but seems to expect that he would invest it in real estate, and cattle, and would
procure servants with it. 2 Kings v. 26. In 1 Sam. ix. 8, we find the servant of Saul having
money, and relieving his master in an emergency. Arza, the servant of Elah, was the owner of
a house. That it was spacious and somewhat magnificent, would be a natural inference from the
fact that it was a resort of the king. 1 Kings xvi. 9. The case of the Gibeonites, who, after
they became servants, still occupied their cities, and remained, in many respects, a distinct
people for centuries; and that of the 150,000 Canaanites, the servants of Solomon, who worked
out their tribute of bond-service in levies, periodically relieving each other, while preparing
the materials for the temple, are additional illustrations of independence in the acquisition
and ownership of property.

[Footnote A: Though we have not sufficient data to decide with accuracy upon the relative value
of that sum, then and now, yet we have enough to warrant us in saying that two talents of silver
had far more value then than three thousand dollars have now.]

[Footnote B: Whoever heard of the slaves in our southern states stealing a large amount of
money? They "know how to take care of themselves" quite too well for that. When they steal,
they are careful to do it on such a small scale, or in the taking of such things as will make
detection difficult. No doubt they steal now and then a little, and a gaping marvel would it
be if they did not. Why should they not follow in the footsteps of their masters and mistresses?
Dull scholars indeed! if, after so many lessons from proficients in the art, who drive the
business by wholesale, they should not occasionally copy their betters, fall into the fashion,
and try their hand in a small way, at a practice which is the only permanent and universal
business carried on around them! Ignoble truly! never to feel the stirrings of high impulse,
prompting them to imitate the eminent pattern set before them in the daily vocation of "Honorables"
and "Excellencies," and to emulate the illustrious examples of Doctor of Divinity and Right
and Very Reverends! Hear President Jefferson's testimony. In his notes of Virginia, speaking
of slaves, he says, "That disposition to theft with which they (the slaves) have been branded,
must be ascribed to their situation, and not to any special depravity of the moral sense. It
is a problem which I give the master to solve, whether the religious precepts against the violation
of property were not framed for HIM as well as for his slave--and whether the slave may not
as justifiably take a little from one who has taken ALL from him, as he may slay one who would
slay him" See Jefferson's Notes on Virginia, pp. 207-8]

4. Heirship--Servants frequently inherited their master's property; especially if he had no
sons, or if they had dishonored the family. This seems to have been a general usage.

The cases of Eliezer, the servant of Abraham; Ziba, the servant of Mephibosheth, Jarha an Egyptian,
the servant of Sheshan, and the husband of his daughter; 1 Chron. ii. 34, 35, and of the husbandmen
who said of their master's son, "this is the HEIR, let us kill him, and the INHERITANCE WILL
BE OURS." Mark xii. 7, are illustrations. Also the declaration in Prov. xvii. 2--"A wise servant
shall have rule over a son that causeth shame, and SHALL HAVE PART OF THE INHERITANCE AMONG
THE BRETHREN." This passage seems to give servants precedence as heirs, even over the wives
and daughters of their masters. Did masters hold by force, and plunder of earnings, a class
of persons, from which, in frequent contingencies, they selected both heirs for their property,
and husbands for their daughters?

5. ALL were required to present offerings and sacrifices. Deut. xvi. 15, 17. 2 Chron. xv. 9-11.
Numb. ix. 13.

Servants must have had permanently, the means of acquiring property to meet these expenditures.

6. Those Hebrew servants who went out at the seventh year, were provided by law with a large
stock of provisions and cattle. Deut. xv. 11-14. If it be objected, that no mention is made
of the servants from the strangers, receiving a like bountiful supply, we answer, neither did
the most honorable class of the Israelitish servants, the free-holders; and for the same reason,
they did not go out in the seventh year, but continued until the jubilee. If the fact that
no mention is made of the Gentile servants receiving such a gratuity proves that they were
robbed of their earnings; it proves that the most valued class of Hebrew servants were robbed
of theirs also, a conclusion too stubborn for even pro-slavery masticators, however unscrupulous.

[Footnote A: The comment of Maimonides on this passage is as follows--"'Thou shalt furnish
him liberally,' &c. That is to say, 'Loading ye shall load him.' likewise every one of his
family, with as much as he can take with him in abundant benefits. And if it be avariciously
asked, How much must I give him? I say unto you, not less than thirty shekels, which is the
valuation of a servant, as declared in Exodus xxi. 32"--Maimonides, Hilcoth, Obedim, Chapter
ii. Section 3.]

7. The servants were BOUGHT. In other words, they received compensation for their services
in advance. Having shown, under a previous head, that servants sold themselves, and of course
received the compensation for themselves, (except in cases where parents hired out the time
of their children until they became of age[B],) a mere reference to the fact in this place
is all that is required for the purposes of this argument.

[Footnote B: Among the Israelites, girls became of age at twelve, and boys at thirteen years.]

8. We infer that servants were paid, because we find masters at one time having a large number
of servants, and afterwards none, without any intimation that they were sold. The wages of
servants would enable them to set up in business for themselves. Jacob, after being the servant
of Laban for twenty-one years, became thus an independent herdsman, and was the master of many
servants. Gen. xxx. 43, and xxxii. 15. But all these servants had left him before he went down
into Egypt, having doubtless acquired enough to commence business for themselves. Gen. xlv.
10, 11, and xlvi. 1-7, 32.

9. God's testimony to the character of Abraham. Genesis xviii. 19. "For I know him that he
will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep THE WAY OF THE LORD
TO DO JUSTICE AND JUDGMENT." We have here God's testimony, that Abraham taught his servants
"the way of the Lord." What was the "way of the Lord" respecting the payment of wages where
service was rendered? "Wo unto him that useth his neighbor's service without wages!" Jer. xxii.
13. "Masters, give unto your servants that which is just and equal." Col. iv. 1. "Render unto
all their DUES." ROM. xiii. 7. "The laborer is worthy of his hire." Luke x. 7. How did Abraham
teach his servants to "do justice" to others? By doing injustice to them? Did he exhort them
to "render to all their dues" by keeping back their own? Did he teach them that "the laborer
was worthy of his hire" by robbing them of theirs? Did he beget in them a reverence for the
eighth commandment by pilfering all their time and labor? Did he teach them "not to defraud"
others "in any matter" by denying them "what was just and equal?" If each of Abraham's pupils
under such a catechism did not become a very Aristides in justice, then an illustrious example,
patriarchal dignity, and practical lessons, can make but slow headway against human perverseness!

10. Specific precepts of the Mosaic law enforcing general principles. Out of many, we select
the following:

(1.) "Thou shall not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn," or literally, while he thresheth.
Deut. xxv. 4. Here is a general principle applied to a familiar case. The ox representing all
domestic animals. Isaiah xxx. 24. A particular kind of service--all kinds; and a law requiring
an abundant provision for the wants of an animal ministering to man in a certain way,--a general
principle of treatment covering all times, modes, and instrumentalities of service. The object
of the law was, not merely to enjoin tenderness towards brutes, but to inculcate the duty of
rewarding those who serve us, showing that they who labor for others, are entitled to what
is just and equal in return; and if such care is enjoined, by God, not merely for the ample
sustenance, but for the present enjoyment of a brute, what would be a meet return for the services
of man? MAN, with his varied wants, exalted nature and immortal destiny! Paul tells us expressly,
that the principle which we have named, lies at the bottom of the statute. See 1 Corinthians
ix. 9, 10--"For it is written in the law of Moses, Thou shalt not muzzle the mouth of the ox
that treadeth out the corn. Doth God take care for oxen? Or saith he it altogether for OUR
sakes? that he that ploweth should plow in HOPE, and that he that thresheth in hope should
be PARTAKER OF HIS HOPE."

(2.) "If thy brother be waxen poor, and fallen in decay with thee, then thou shalt relieve
him. YEA, THOUGH HE BE A STRANGER OR a SOJOURNER, that he may live with thee. Take thou no
usury of him, or increase, but fear thy God. Thou shalt not give him thy money upon usury,
nor lend him thy victuals for increase." Lev. xxv. 35-37. Or, in other words, "relief at your
hands is his right, and your duty--you shall not take advantage of his necessities, but cheerfully
supply them." Now, we ask, by what process of pro-slavery legerdemain, this benevolent regulation
can be made to be in keeping with the doctrine of WORK WITHOUT PAY? Did God declare the poor
stranger entitled to RELIEF, and in the same breath, authorize them to "use his services without
wages;" force him to work, and ROB HIM OF ALL HIS EARNINGS? Judge ye.

V.--WERE MASTERS THE PROPRIETORS OF SERVANTS AS THEIR LEGAL PROPERTY?

The discussion of this topic has been already somewhat anticipated under the preceding heads;
but a variety of considerations, not within the range of our previous inquiries, remain to
be noticed.

1. Servants were not subjected to the uses, nor liable to the contingencies of property.

(1.) They were never taken in payment for their masters' debts, though children were sometimes
taken (without legal authority) for the debts of a father. 2 Kings iv. 1; Job xxiv. 9; Isaiah
l. 1; Matt. xviii. 25.

Cases are recorded to which creditors took from debtors property of all kinds, to satisfy their
demands. In Job xxiv. 3, cattle are taken; in Prov. xxii 27, household furniture; in Lev. xxv.
25-28, the productions of the soil; in Lev. xxv. 27-30, houses; in Exodus xxii. 26-29, and
Deut. xxiv. 10-13, and Matt. v. 40, clothing; but servants were taken in no instance.

(2.) Servants were never given as pledges. Property of all sorts was given and held in pledge.
We find in the Bible, household furniture, clothing, cattle, money, signets, and personal ornaments,
with divers other articles of property, used as pledges for value received. Nana.

VERDIER, a lawyer who had been for a long time engaged to Hortense Josserand. The marriage was
put off from time to time, as he had got entangled with a woman from
whom he found separation difficult.

Pot-Bouille.

VERDONCK, a grocer at Montsou. His business was much affected by the competition of Maigrat,
and he gave credit during the first week of the strike in the hope of getting back some of
his old customers. Germinal.

VERLAQUE, an inspector in the fish-market at the Halles Centrales. Having fallen into bad health,
he was allowed to find a substitute to keep the place open for him in case he should recover.
Florent was appointed, and paid a considerable portion of the salary
to Verlaque. Le Ventre de Paris.

VERLAQUE
(MADAME), wife of the preceding.

Florent assisted her after the death of her husband. Le Ventre de
Paris.

VERNIER, an art critic who published an article on Fagerolles the
artist. L'Oeuvre.

VERONIQUE, maid-servant to the Chanteau family, was a tall, stout young woman of unattractive
appearance and uncertain temper. She had been in the service of the Chanteaus for twenty years,
and having become necessary to them, took advantage of her position.

From the first, Veronique resented Pauline Quenu's presence in the Chanteau household, and treated
her as an intruder. In course of time, however, she came to see that Pauline was being despoiled
of her means by Madame Chanteau, and her sense of justice made her take the young girl's part.
The death of Madame Chanteau made a deep impression on Veronique whose ill-will towards Pauline
gradually returned.

Her mind, not strong at best, became unhinged, and in a fit of temper she went into the orchard
and hanged herself. La Joie de Vivre.

VIAL (ABBE), one of the clergy of Plassans. When his appointment became vacant it was promised to Abbe
Bourrette, but was eventually given to Abbe Faujas. La Conquete de
Plassans.

VIAL (MELANIE), second wife of Jean Macquart, to whom she was married in 1871. She was the
only daughter of a peasant in easy circumstances, and was of a fine robust physique. She had three
healthy children in as many years. Le Docteur Pascal.

VIAN, a wheelwright of Plassans, to whom Silvere Mouret was apprenticed.
La Fortune des Rougon.

VICTOIRE, Madame Campardon's cook. She had been in the service of her master's father when
Campardon was a baby, and though now old, and not over clean, they were unwilling to part with
her. Pot-Bouille.

VICTOIRE (LA MERE), wife of Pecqueux, the railway stoker. She had been the nurse of Severine Aubry,
and later, as the wife of Pecqueux, who spent all his earnings on
drink, she was leading a wretched existence in Paris by the aid of
a little sewing, when, happening to meet her foster-daughter, the
former intimacy had been renewed, and President Grandmorin took her
under his protection, obtaining for her the post of attendant at the
ladies'cloakroom.

She occupied a room in the Impasse d'Amsterdam, which the Roubauds regarded as their head-quarters
when they spent a day in Paris. Having become helpless as the result of a sprain, she was obliged
to resign her post and seek admittance to a hospital. La Bete Humaine.

VICTORINE, cook in the employment of Nana. She married Francois, the
footman. Nana.

VICTORINE, a servant in the employment of the Badeuils after they retired to Rognes. She was dismissed
for misconduct, and in revenge told Elodie Vaucogne the occupation
of her parents. La Terre.

VIGOUROUX,
a coal merchant in Rue de la Goutte d'Or. He sold coke to Gervaise at the same price as the Gas
Company. L'Assommoir.

VIGOUROUX (MADAME), wife of the preceding. She was a little woman with bright eyes who liked to laugh
with the men. L'Assommoir.

VIMEUX, a miserable little sheriff officer, who was celebrated in
the Canton for the bad usage he got from the peasants when he was
obliged to serve summonses upon them.

La Terre.

VINCARD, a silk merchant, who, seeing that his business was likely to be seriously affected
by the competition of "The Ladies'Paradise," he sold it to Robineau, and took a restaurant
at Vincennes. Au Bonheur des Dames.

VINCENT, a tavern-keeper in the neighbourhood of Montsou. Germinal.

VINEUIL (COMMANDANT DE), father of Gilberte. Retired from active service on account of his wounds,
he was appointed Director of Customs at Charleville. His wife died of consumption, and he sent
his daughter, about whose health he was alarmed, to reside for a time at a farm near Chene-Populeux.
He died soon after Gilberte's marriage to Maginot, the Inspector
of State Forests. La Debacle.

VINEUIL
(COLONEL DE), brother of the preceding. In 1870 he commanded the 106th Regiment of the line, which formed
part of the Seventh Army corps. He was a man of fine appearance and character, and bore his part
bravely through the disastrous campaign, until he was severely wounded on the battlefield of
Sedan. Notwithstanding his wound, he remained on his horse till the end, when he was removed to
the house of Delaherche, the husband of his niece Gilberte. By December his wound was cured,
but crushed by his country's defeats, his mental depression was so great that he remained in
a darkened room, refusing to hear news from the outer world, and associating only with his old friend
Madame Delaherche, the mother of his niece's husband. At the end of December he died suddenly,
horror-struck by an account of the surrender of Metz, which he chanced to read in an old newspaper.
La Debacle.

VINEUIL (GILBERTE DE), daughter of Commandant de Vineuil. She was first married to Maginot, and
afterwards to Jules Delaherche. When she was nine years old, her father, alarmed at a cough she had,
sent her to live at a farm, where she came to know Henriette Levasseur. Even at that age she
was a coquette, and when at twenty she married Maginot, the Inspector of the State Forests
at Mezieres, her character had not changed. Mezieres she found dull, but her husband allowed
her full liberty, and she found all the gaiety she desired at Charleville.

There she lived solely for pleasure, and Captain Beaudoin became her lover. In 1869 she became
a widow, and in spite of the stories told about her she found a second husband, Jules Delaherche.
On the eve of the battle of Sedan she resumed for the nonce her former relations with Beaudoin.
Gay and irresponsible by nature, she flirted with Captain von Gartlauben, a Prussian officer,
who was quartered on her husband after the capitulation of Sedan, while at the same time she
carried on a liaison with Edmond Lagarde, a young soldier who had been wounded, and whom she had
assisted to nurse. La Debacle.

VIOLAINE (LOUISE), an actress at the Theatre des Varietes. She took the part in the Blonde Venus
originally played by Nana, and secured a great success. Nana.

VIRGINIE, sister of Adele, for whose sake Auguste Lantier deserted
Gervaise Macquart.

Gervaise, meeting Virginie in a public washing-house, was taunted by her on the subject of her
lover, and a terrible fight between the two women followed, Virginie being severely beaten. Gervaise did
not see her again for some years, by which time she had married M. Poisson, an ex-soldier,
who later became a policeman. She professed to have overlooked the fight with Gervaise, but
appears to have been not without hope that an opportunity of repaying
her injuries might eventually arise.

When the Coupeaus gave way to drink, Lantier, who had again established friendly relations,
suggested that Virginie should take the Coupeaus'shop and buy a stock of groceries and sweetmeats
with a legacy she had received from an aunt. Partly moved by a desire for revenge on Gervaise, she
did so, and Lantier retained with the Poissons the place as a lodger
he formerly occupied with the Coupeaus.

Soon after, he became Virginie's lover, and, by paying nothing for his support, while he gradually
ate the contents of the shop, he accomplished the downfall of the Poissons in much the same manner
as he had already ruined the Coupeaus. L'Assommoir.

VOINCOURT (COMTESSE DE), mother of Claire de Voincourt. She occupied
at Beaumont a house adjoining the bishop's palace.

Le Reve.

VOINCOURT (CLAIRE DE), the daughter of an old family of great wealth who lived at Beaumont. Monseigneur
d'Hautecoeur wished to arrange a marriage between her and Felicien, his son; his plans were assisted
by the belief of Felicien that Angelique, with whom he had fallen in love, no longer cared for
him. This belief having proved false, the proposed marriage between Felicien and Claire de
Voincourt did not take place. Le Reve.

VORIAU, a large black dog which belonged to Bambousse, the Mayor of Artaud. La Faute de l'Abbe
Mouret.

VUILLAUME (M. and MADAME), the parents of Madame Pichon, whom they visited every Sunday afternoon.
They were, later, much annoyed with the Pichons, whose family became,
they considered, too large for their means.

Pot-Bouille.

VUILLAUME (MARIE). See Madame Marie Pichon.

VUILLET, a bookseller of Plassans, who published a biweekly journal,
the Gazette de Plassans, which was devoted exclusively to the interests
of the clergy.

La Fortune des Rougon.

W WEISS, husband of Henriette Levasseur, and cousin of Otto Gunther.

He got a situation in the refinery at Chene-Populeux, almost in a menial position, but he gradually educated
himself, and by dint of hard work raised himself to the position of accountant. A clear-headed
man, he early saw the causes that were to lead to the downfall of his country, and expressed
himself strongly regarding the unprepared state of the army. Weiss lived at Sedan, but in 1870 he had
just bought a little house at Bazeilles, where he slept the night before the battle. He was frantic
at the idea that the Prussians might pillage and perhaps destroy
the dwelling so long desired and so hardly acquired, and when the
attack was made he took an active part in the fighting.

Captured by the Prussians, and being a civilian, he was at once condemned to be shot, and the
sentence was carried out before the eyes of his wife, who had come from Sedan to look for him.
La Debacle. WEISS (MADAME), wife of the preceding. See Henriette Levasseur. La Debacle. WORMS,
a famous costumier, before whom the ladies of the Second Empire
bowed the knee.

Renee Saccard was one of his customers, and when she died owed him
an account of two hundred and fifty-seven thousand francs.

La Curee. Z ZEPHIR, the horse ridden by Prosper Sambuc, who loved
it like a brother.

The animal received a mortal wound at the battle of Sedan, and fell on its rider, crushing under
it his right leg. It lay upon him for some hours, but eventually, on his speaking to it, moved
with a great effort sufficiently to allow him to escape.

La Debacle.

ZEPHYRIN, a worker on the farm of La Borderie. He laughed at the agricultural machinery introduced by
Alexandre Hourdequin. La Terre. ZIDORE, a youth of seventeen, who was an apprentice zinc-worker.
He was Coupeau's assistant at one time. L'Assommoir. ZIZI, the pet name given by Nana to Georges
Hugon. Nana.

ZOE, waiting-maid in the employment of Nana. She was entirely in Nana's confidence, and was always
ready with shrewd advice, though there is no doubt she arranged matters
so that a great deal of money came into her own hands.

She ultimately took over the establishment of La Tricon, which she had long coveted, and, having
large ideas, proposed to extend the business by renting a larger
house.

Nana.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF PRINCIPAL SCENES ARROMANCHES, a small town on the Normandy coast, not
far from Caen. It is about six miles from Bonneville, the scene of La Joie de Vivre. ARTAUD (LES),
a small village a few miles from Plassans (q. v.). Abbe Mouret was its priest during the events
related in La Faute de l'Abbe Mouret. ASSOMMOIR (Pere Colombe's) was situated at the corner of
Rue des Poissonniers and Boulevard de Rochechouart, which is a continuation
of Boulevard de Clichy, in the northern district of Paris.

L'Assommoir.

AUGUSTIN (RUE NEUVE SAINT), a street which joins the Avenue de l'Opera
a short distance from the Opera House.

It is intersected by Rue Michodiere, at the corner of which is situated
Octave Mouret's great drapery establishment, known as "Au Bonheur
des Dames."

Au Bonheur des Dames. BARENTIN, a small town on the Western Railway of France, about twelve miles
from Rouen.

It was at a point between Barentin and the previous station, Malaunay, that President Grandmorin
was murdered by Roubaud. La Bete Humaine. BAZEILLES, a village about
three miles south-east of Sedan (q. v.).

It was the scene of some of the most important events in La Debacle.

BEAUCE (LA), a fertile agricultural plain stretching between Chartres and Orleans, and intersected
by the road from the latter town to Chateaudun.

The district is the scene of La Terre. BEAUMONT, a town of about 3000 inhabitants, picturesquely
situated on a height on the left bank of the Oise about twenty-five
miles north of Paris.

Its church, the scene of some of the principal events in Le Reve, is an interesting building,
dating from the thirteenth century. Le Reve. BONCOEUR (HOTEL) was situated in the Boulevard de la Chapelle
(q. v.). L'Assommoir.

BONNEVILLE, a village on the Normandy coast, about six miles from Arromanches. It is in an extremely
exposed position, and many houses have been destroyed by the inroads
of the sea.

To prevent further damage, Lazare Chanteau constructed a breakwater, which was, however, washed away
by the first storm. The inhabitants of the village were mostly engaged
in fishing.

La Joie de Vivre. BORDERIE (LA), a farm on the plain of La Beauce, which belonged to Alexandre
Hourdequin, whose father bought it after the Revolution. La Terre. CAEN, a town of about 40,000 inhabitants,
situated on the River Orne, about nine miles from the Normandy coast.

Chanteau pere carried on business there before he retired and went
to live at Bonneville, and his son Lazare received his education at
its college.

La Joie de Vivre. CHALONS, a town of about 24,000 inhabitants, is
situated on the Marne 107 miles east of Paris.

It is the head-quarters of the Sixth Army Corps, and was occupied by the Prussians in August,
1870.

La Debacle. CHAPELLE (BOULEVARD DE LA) is a continuation of the Boulevard de Clichy, in the Montmartre
district of Paris. In it was situated the Hotel Boncoeur, where Lantier and Gervaise Macquart
found lodgings when they first came to Paris.

L'Assommoir. CHARLEVILLE, a town of about 17,000 inhabitants, situated about ten miles north-west
of Sedan.

It is close to Mezieres, of which it really forms the commercial and
industrial portion. La Debacle.

CHARTRES, an important and interesting town, situated on the left bank of the Eure, fifty-five
miles south-west of Paris.

It is the principal town in the grain-producing district of La Beauce,
and reference is frequently made to it in La Terre.

In it M. and Madame Charles Badeuil carried on business for a number of years with considerable
success. La Terre.

CHATEAUDUN, a town of 7000 inhabitants, situated on the left bank of the Loire, about eighty-four
miles south-west of Paris. It is in the district of La Beauce, and is frequently referred to
in La Terre.

CHOISEUL (RUE DE), a street which connects the Boulevard des Italiens, and Rue Neuve Saint-Augustin.
It is parallel to Avenue de l'Opera and Rue Michodiere, being slightly to the east of the latter.
Pot-Bouille.

CLOYES, a market-town in the district of La Beauce, about seven miles
from Chateaudun and ninety-one miles south-west of Paris.

It is frequently referred to in La Terre. CROIX DE MAUFRAS (LE), a level crossing on the Western Railway
of France, between Malaunay and Barentin, about nine miles west of
Rouen.

The crossing, which was looked after by Misard and his daughter Flore, was the scene of a terrible
railway accident, and it was in the same vicinity that President
Grandmorin was murdered by Roubaud.

La Bete Humaine. EAUX (PASSAGE DES), a steep lane which runs from Rue Raynouard at Passy down to
the Seine. In an old house which abutted on the passage lived Mere Fetu, and in the same building
was the room where Helene Grandjean went to meet Doctor Deberle.

Une Pate d'Amour. GOUTTE D'OR (RUE DE LA), a street in the Montmartre district of Paris. It enters from
Rue des Poissonniers and runs parallel to and behind Boulevard de la Chapelle, which is a continuation
of Boulevard de Clichy.

The Coupeaus and the Lorilleux lived in Rue de la Goutte d'Or. L'Assommoir.
HALLES CENTRALES (LES), the great provision markets of Paris, are
situated on the right bank of the river, and are directly north of
the Pont Neuf, from which they are not far distant.

Le Ventre de Paris.

HAUSSMANN (BOULEVARD) runs from east to west a short distance behind the Opera House. Its eastern
end connects with the Boulevard des Italiens. Nana. HAVRE (LE), an important seaport, which forms
the terminus of the Western Railway of France, the line upon which Jacques Lantier was employed
as an engine-driver.

The Roubauds lived at Le Havre, and many of the principal scenes in La Bete Humaine were enacted there. La
Bete Humaine. LAZARE (RUE SAINT-), is in the neighbourhood of the railway station of the
same name. In it was situated the Orviedo mansion, in which Aristide
Saccard started the Universal Bank.

L'Argent.
LILLE, an important manufacturing town in the north of France, near
the Belgian frontier. Etienne Lantier was at one time employed in the railway
workshop there. Germinal. MALAUNAY, a station on the Western Railway
of France, six miles from Rouen, and about midway between that town
and Barentin.

It is
referred to in La Bete Humaine. MARBEUF (RUE), a street which connects
the Avenue des Champs Elysees and the Avenue de l'Alma. Eugene Rougon
lived there. Son Excellence Eugene Rougon.

MARCHIENNES,
a town in the mining district of the north of France, about thirty miles
south-east of Lille. It is frequently referred to in Germinal.

METZ,
a town of 55,000 inhabitants, is situated on the Moselle, about 263
miles east of Paris and about eighty miles south-east of Sedan. It
was surrendered to the Prussians on 27th October, 1870, and is now the
capital of German Lorraine. La Debacle.

MEZIERES,
a small town of 7000 inhabitants, situated on a peninsula formed by
the Meuse about ten miles north-west of Sedan. Its situation has prevented
its extension, and the closely adjoining town of Charleville has
become its commercial and industrial quarter.

Mezieres was three
times invested during the Franco-Prussian War, and surrendered on 2nd
January, 1871, after a bombardment of three days. La Debacle. MICHODIERE
(RUE), a street which connects the Boulevard des Capucines and the
Rue Neuve Saint-Augustin.

The street is almost parallel to the Avenue de l'Opera. Au
Bonheur des Dames. MOINES (RUE DES) was situated at Batignolles, in
the extreme north-west of Paris.

Madame Lerat lived there. L'Assommoir.
MONCEAU (RUE), a street which runs northward from Rue du Faubourg St. Honore.
It is a short distance to the north-east of the Arc de Triomphe,
and in it was situated Aristide Saccard's magnificent mansion.

La Curee. MONTSOU,
a mining village in the north of France, about ten kilometres from Marchiennes
(q. v.). It is the scene of many of the chief events in Germinal.

ORLEANS,
an important town situated on the Loire, seventy-five miles south of
Paris. It is referred to in La Terre and Nana. PARADOU, the name of
a neglected demesne near Plassans (q. v.). It was the scene of a large
part of La Faute de l'Abbe Mouret.

PLASSANS, the name under
which Zola disguised his native town of Aix. It is a place of about 30,000
inhabitants, and is situated eighteen miles north of Marseilles. Aix was
at one time the capital of Provence, is the seat of an archbishop, and
contains a university and an Ecole des Art et Metiers. In the Rougon-Macquart
novels Zola made Plassans the cradle of an imaginary family, and throughout
the whole series of books the town is constantly referred to.

La Fortune des Rougon, etc.
RAUCOURT, a small town about six miles south of Sedan. It is frequently referred
to in La Debacle. REIMS, an important town of 98,000 inhabitants,
situated about 100 miles to the north-east of Paris.

In 1870-71 it was occupied by the Prussians, who laid heavy
requisitions upon it. The town is frequently referred to in La Debacle.

REMILLY,
a village about five miles south of Sedan. Old Fouchard's farm was situated
in its vicinity. La Debacle. ROUEN, an important town of over 100,000
inhabitants, situated on the Seine, about eighty-seven miles from
Paris and fifty-seven miles from Le Havre.

It was the
scene of the judicial inquiry regarding the murder of President Grandmorin.
La Bete Humaine. SEDAN, a town of 20,000 inhabitants, situated on
the Meuse, about 170 miles north-east of Paris.

It was the scene of one of the chief battles of the Franco-Prussian
War of 1870, and capitulated to the Prussian forces on 2nd September
of that year.

The town
is frequently referred to in La Debacle. VALOGNES, a small town in Normandy,
not far from Cherbourg.

It was the birthplace
of Denise Baudu and her brothers. Au Bonheur des Dames. VINEUSE (RUE
DE), a street in the Passy district of Paris, at the extreme west
end of the city. It is near the Trocadero Palace. Madame Helene Grandjean
and Doctor Deberle both lived in this street. Une Page d'Amour. VOREUX,
the name of a large coal-pit, situated about two kilometres from
Montsou, on the road between that village and Marchiennes (q. v.).

Germinal. Exod. ii. 9. Have the females entirely, and the males to a considerable extent,
the disposal of their own time? Have they the means for cultivating social refinements, for
practising the fine arts, and for intellectual and moral improvement?

THE ISRAELITES, UNDER THE BONDAGE OF EGYPT, ENJOYED ALL THESE RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES. True,
"their lives were made bitter, and all the service wherein they made them serve was with rigor."
But what was that, when compared with the incessant toil of American slaves, the robbery of
all their time and earnings, and even the "power to own any thing, or acquire any thing"--the
"quart of corn a day," the legal allowance of food[A]!--their only clothing for one half the
year, "one shirt and one pair of pantaloons[B]!"--the two hours and a half only for rest and
refreshment in the twenty-four[C]!--their dwellings, hovels, unfit for human residence, commonly
with but one apartment, where both sexes and all ages herd promiscuously at night, like the
beasts of the field. Add to this, the mental ignorance, and moral degradation; the daily separations
of kindred, the revelries of lust, the lacerations and baptisms of blood, sanctioned by the
laws of the South, and patronized by its pubic sentiment. What, we ask, was the bondage of
Egypt when compared with this? And yet for her oppression of the poor, God smote her with plagues,
and trampled her as the mire, till she passed away in his wrath, and the place that knew her
in her pride, knew her no more. Ah! "I have seen the afflictions of my people, and I have heard
their groanings, and am come down to deliver them." HE DID COME, and Egypt sank, a ruinous
heap, and her blood closed over her.

[Footnote A: The law of North Carolina. See Haywood's Manual, 524-5]

[Footnote B: The law of Louisiana. See Martin's Digest, 610.]

[Footnote C: The whole amount of time secured by the law of Louisiana. See Act of July 7, 1806.
Martin's Digest, 610-12]

If such was God's retribution for the oppression of heathen Egypt, of how much sorer punishment
shall a Christian people be thought worthy, who cloak with religion, a system, in comparison
with which the bondage of Egypt dwindles to nothing?

Let those believe who can, that God gave his people permission to hold human beings, robbed
of all their rights, while he threatened them with wrath to the uttermost, if they practised
the far lighter oppression of Egypt--which robbed its victims of only the least and cheapest
of their rights, and left the females unplundered even of these. What! Is God divided against
himself? When he had just turned Egypt into a funeral pile; while his curse yet blazed upon
her unburied dead, and his bolts still hissed amidst her slaughter, and the smoke of her torment
went upwards because she had "ROBBED THE POOR," did He license the VICTIMS of robbery to rob
the poor of ALL? As Lawgiver, did he create a system tenfold more grinding than that, for which
he had just hurled Pharaoh headlong, and cloven down his princes, and overwhelmed his hosts,
and blasted them with His thunder, till "hell was moved to meet them at their coming?"

Having touched upon the general topics which we design to include in this inquiry, we proceed
to examine various Scripture facts and passages, which will doubtless be set in array against
the foregoing conclusions.

OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED.

The advocates of slavery are always at their wits end when they try to press the Bible into
their service. Every movement shows that they are hard-pushed. Their odd conceits and ever
varying shifts, their forced constructions, lacking even plausibility, their bold assumptions,
and blind guesswork, not only proclaim their cause desperate, but themselves. Some of the Bible
defences thrown around slavery by ministers of the Gospel, do so torture common sense, Scripture,
and historical fact, that it were hard to tell whether absurdity, fatuity, ignorance, or blasphemy,
predominates, in compound. Each strives so lustily for the mastery, it may be set down a drawn
battle.

How often has it been set up in type, that the color of the negro is the Cain-mark, propagated
downward. Doubtless Cain's posterity started an opposition to the ark, and rode out the flood
with flying streamers! Why should not a miracle be wrought to point such an argument, and fill
out for slaveholders a Divine title-deed, vindicating the ways of God to men?

OBJECTION 1. "Cursed be Canaan, a servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren." Gen. i. 25.

This prophecy of Noah is the vade mecum of slaveholders, and they never venture abroad without
it. It is a pocket-piece for sudden occasion--a keepsake to dote over--a charm to spell-bind
opposition, and a magnet to attract "whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a lie." But
closely as they cling to it, "cursed be Canaan" is a poor drug to stupify a throbbing conscience--a
mocking lullaby, vainly wooing slumber to unquiet tossings, and crying "Peace, be still," where
God wakes war, and breaks his thunders.

Those who plead the curse on Canaan to justify negro slavery, assume all the points in debate.

1. That the condition prophesied was slavery, rather than the mere rendering of service to
others, and that it was the bondage of individuals rather than the condition of a nation tributary
to another, and in that sense its servant.

2. That the prediction of crime justifies it; that it grants absolution to those whose crimes
fulfil it, if it does not transform the crimes into virtues. How piously the Pharaohs might
have quoted God's prophecy to Abraham, "Thy seed shall be in bondage, and they shall afflict
them for four hundred years." And then, what saints were those that crucified the Lord of glory!

3. That the Africans are descended from Canaan. Whereas Africa was peopled from Egypt and Ethiopia,
and Mizraim settled Egypt, and Cush, Ethiopia. See Gen. x. 15-19, for the location and boundaries
of Canaan's posterity. So on the assumption that African slavery fulfils the prophecy, a curse
pronounced upon one people, is quoted to justify its infliction upon another. Perhaps it may
be argued that Canaan includes all Ham's posterity. If so, the prophecy has not been fulfilled.
The other sons of Ham settled the Egyptian and Assyrian empires, and conjointly with Shem the
Persian, and afterward, to some extent, the Grecian and Roman. The history of these nations
gives no verification of the prophecy. Whereas the history of Canaan's descendants, for more
than three thousand years, is a record of its fulfilment. First, they were made tributaries
by the Israelites. Then Canaan was the servant of Shem. Afterward, by the Medes and Persians.
Then Canaan was the servant of Shem, and in part of the other sons of Ham. Afterward, by the
Macedonians, Grecians, and Romans, successively. Then Canaan was the servant of Japhet, mainly,
and secondarily of the other sons of Ham. Finally, they were subjected by the Ottoman dynasty,
where they yet remain. Thus Canaan is now the servant of Shem and Japhet and the other sons of Ham.

But it may still be objected, that though Canaan is the only one named in the curse, yet the
22d and 23d verses show that it was pronounced upon the posterity of Ham in general. In verse
23, Shem and Japhet cover their father with a garment. Verse 24, "And Noah awoke from his wine,
and knew what his YOUNGER son had done unto him, and said," &c.

It is argued that this younger son cannot be Canaan, as he was not the son, but the grandson
of Noah, and therefore it must be Ham. We answer, whoever that "younger son" was, or whatever
he did, Canaan alone was named in the curse. Besides, the Hebrew word Ben, signifies son, grandson,
great-grandson, or any one of the posterity of an individual. Gen. xxix. 5, "And he said unto
them, Know ye Laban, the SON of Nahor?" Yet Laban was the grandson of Nahor. Gen. xxiv. 15,
29. In 2 Sam. xix. 24, it is said, "Mephibosheth, the SON of Saul, came down to meet the king."
But Mephibosheth was the son of Jonathan, and the grandson of Saul. 2 Sam. ix. 6. So Ruth iv.
17. "There is a SON born to Naomi." This was the son of Ruth, the daughter-in-law of Naomi.
Ruth iv. 13, 15. So 2 Sam. xxi. 6. "Let seven men of his (Saul's) SONS be delivered unto us,"
&c. Seven of Saul's grandsons were delivered up. 2 Sam. xxi. 8, 9. So Gen. xxi. So 2 Kings
ix. 20, "The driving of Jehu, the SON of Nimshi." So 1 Kings xix. 16. But Jehu was the grandson
of Nimshi. 2 Kings ix. 2, 14. Who will forbid the inspired writer to use the same word when
speaking of Noah's grandson?

Further, if Ham were meant what propriety in calling him the younger son? The order in which
Noah's sons are always mentioned, makes Ham the second, and not the younger son. If it be said
that Bible usage is variable, and that the order of birth is not always preserved in enumerations;
the reply is, that, enumeration in the order of birth, is the rule, in any other order the
exception. The general introduction and profitable study of this work, depend much upon a hearty
and active coöperation of teachers in the enterprise which it is intended to promote. From
all who desire to make themselves in the highest degree useful in their profession, such coöperation
is confidently anticipated.

The advantage of instructing a class in civil government, is not confined to the pupils. The
teacher will find the exercise both interesting and profitable to himself. Although pains have
been taken to adapt the work to the capacities of youth, the definition of many terms and phrases,
and the further explanation of many subjects, have necessarily been left to be supplied by teachers.
The study and investigation which may in some cases be required to qualify them for the task,
will be amply rewarded by their own advancement in political knowledge.

No intelligent teacher, it is presumed, will object to the introduction
of this study, on the ground that there is not sufficient time or
room for an additional exercise.

Useful as all the branches now taught may be justly deemed, all of them are not, as is a knowledge
of government, indispensable to the security of our liberties.

The latter is of far greater importance to an American citizen, than a knowledge of some portions
of arithmetic and the higher mathematics; and in the opinion of some distinguished educators
the time now devoted to these, in many schools, is sufficient to acquire a tolerable political education.
It is believed, however, that this study need not exclude, or essentially interfere with, any
of the studies pursued in the schools generally. By the more advanced scholars in the common schools,
the work may be used as a reading book, and thus a two-fold advantage be gained from its use.
To assist the more inexperienced teachers in conducting the exercise,
a few questions have been appended to the chapters.

Questions may be added by the teachers at pleasure, or to such extent as may be thought necessary.
And it is believed the recitations may be made more profitable to
pupils, by requiring them, so far as may be, to give answers in their
own words.

To some of the printed questions, no answers are furnished by the chapters and sections referred
to, but may be found in the Synopsis of the State Constitutions, or other parts of the work.
Occasionally questions have been inserted to which no part of the
work furnishes the answers.

Contents Principles of Government. Chapter I. Mankind fitted for Society, and for Civil Government
and Laws Chapter II. Rights and Liberty, defined Chapter III. Laws defined Chapter IV. Different
Forms of Government. Monarchy; Aristocracy; Democracy; Republic State Governments. Chapter V. The
Nature and Objects of a Constitution, and the manner in which it is made Chapter VI. Qualifications
of Electors; or, by whom Political Power is exercised in the States
of this Union Chapter VII. 10-22; Deuteronomy xi. 11, and xix. 4-6;
Leviticus xxiv. 19-22; Exodus, xxi. 18, 19, are a few, out of many cases stated, with tests
furnished by which to detect the intent, in actions brought before them. The detail gone into,
in the verses quoted, is manifestly to enable the judges to get at the motive of the action,
and find out whether the master designed to kill.

1. "If a man smite his servant with a rod."--The instrument used, gives a clue to the intent.
See Numbers xxxv. 16, 18. It was a rod, not an axe, nor a sword, nor a bludgeon, nor any other
death-weapon--hence, from the kind of instrument, no design to kill would be inferred; for
intent to kill would hardly have taken a rod for its weapon. But if the servant dies under
his hand, then the unfitness of the instrument, instead of being evidence in his favor, is
point blank against him; for, to strike him with a rod until he dies, argues a great many blows
laid on with great violence, and this kept up to the death-gasp, establishes the point of intent
to kill. Hence the sentence, "He shall surely be punished." The case is plain and strong. But
if he continued a day or two, the length of time that he lived, together with the kind of instrument
used, and the fact that the master had a pecuniary interest in his life, ("he is his money,")
all, made out a strong case of circumstantial evidence, showing that the master did not design
to kill; and required a corresponding decision and sentence. A single remark on the word "punished:"
in Exodus xxi. 20, 21, the Hebrew word here rendered punished, (Nakum,) is not so rendered
in another instance. Yet it occurs thirty-five times in the Old Testament--in almost every
instance, it is translated avenge--in a few, "to take vengeance," or "to revenge," and in this
instance ALONE, "punish." As it stands in our translation, the pronoun preceding it, refers
to the master--the master in the 21st verse, is to be punished, and in the 22d not to be punished;
whereas the preceding pronoun refers neither to the master nor to the servant, but to the crime,
and the word rendered punished, should have been rendered avenged. The meaning is this: If
a man smite his servant or his maid with a rod, and he die under his hand, IT (the death) shall
surely be avenged, or literally, by avenging it shall be avenged; that is, the death of the
servant shall be avenged by the death of the master. So in the next verse--"If he continues
a day or two," his death shall not be avenged by the death of the master, for in that case
the crime was to be adjudged manslaughter, and not murder, as in the first instance. In the
following verse, another case of personal injury is stated, not intentional, nor extending
to life or limb, a mere accidental hurt, for which the injurer is to pay a sum of money; and
yet our translators employ the same phraseology in both places. One, an instance of deliberate,
wanton, killing by piecemeal. The other and accidental, and comparatively slight injury--of
the inflicter, in both cases, they say the same thing! "He shall surely be punished." Now,
just the difference which common sense would expect to find in such cases, where GOD legislates,
is strongly marked in the original. In the case of the servant wilfully murdered, God says,
"It (the death) shall surely be avenged," (Nakum,) that is, the life of the wrong doer shall
expiate the crime. The same word is used in the Old Testament, when the greatest wrongs are
redressed, by devoting the perpetrators, whether individuals or communities, to destruction.
In the case of the unintentional injury, in the following verse, God says, "He shall surely
be" fined, (Aunash.) "He shall pay as the judges determine." The simple meaning of the word
Aunash, is to lay a fine. It is used in Deut. xxii. 19. They shall amerce him in one hundred
shekels," and in 2 Chron. xxxvi. 3--"He condemned (mulcted) the land in a hundred talents of
gold.--This is the general use of the word, and its primary signification. That avenging the
death of the servant, was neither imprisonment, nor stripes, nor amercing the master in damages,
but that it was taking the master's life we infer.

1. From the Bible usage of the word Nakam. See Genesis iv. 24; Joshua x. 13; Judges xv. 7-xvi.
28; 1 Samuel xiv. 24-xviii. 25-xxv. 31; 2 Samuel iv. 8; Judges v. 2; 1 Samuel xxv. 26-33, &c. &c.

2. From the express statute in such case provided. Leviticus xxiv. 17. "He that killeth ANY
man shall surely be put to death." Also Numbers xxxv. 30, 31. "Whoso killeth ANY person, the
murderer shall be put to death.

3. The Targum of Jonathan gives the verse thus, "Death by the sword shall assuredly be adjudged."
The Targum of Jerusalem thus, "Vengeance shall be taken for him to the uttermost." Jarchi gives
the same rendering. The Samaritan version thus, "He shall die the death."

Again, the last clause in the 21st verse ("for he is his money") is often quoted to prove that
the servant is his master's property, and therefore, if he died, the master was not to be punished.
Because, 1st. A man may dispose of his property as he pleases. 2d. If the servant died of the
injury, the master's loss was a sufficient punishment. A word about the premises, before we
notice the inferences. The assumption is, that the phrase, "HE IS HIS MONEY," proves not only
that the servant is worth money to the master, but that he is an article of property. If the
advocates of slavery will take this principle of interpretation into the Bible, and turn it
loose, let them either give bonds for its behavior, or else stand and draw in self-defence,
"lest it turn again and rend" them. If they endorse for it at one point, they must stand sponsors
all around the circle. It will be too late to cry for quarter when they find its stroke clearing
the whole table, and tilting them among the sweepings beneath. The Bible abounds with such
expressions as the following: "This (bread) is my body;" "this (wine) is my blood;" "all they
(the Israelites) are brass, and tin, and iron, and lead;" "this is life eternal, that they
might know thee;" "this (the water of the well of Bethlehem) is the blood of the men who went
in jeopardy of their lives;" "I am the lily of the valleys;" "a garden enclosed is my sister;"
"my tears have been my meat;" "the Lord God is a sun and a shield;" "God is love;" "the Lord
is my rock;" "the seven good ears are seven years, and the seven good kine are seven years;"
"the seven thin and ill-favored kine are seven years, and the seven empty ears blasted by the
east wind shall be seven years of famine;" "he shall be head, and thou shall be tail;" "the
Lord will be a wall of fire;" "they shall be one flesh;" "the tree of the field is man's life;"
"God is a consuming fire;" "he is his money," &c. A passion for the exact literalities of Bible
language is so amiable, it were hard not to gratify it in this case. The words in the original
are (Kaspo-hu,) "his silver is he." The objector's principle of interpretation is, a philosopher's
stone! Its miracle touch transmutes five feet eight inches of flesh and bones into solid silver!
Quite a permanent servant, if not so nimble with all--reasoning against "forever," is forestalled
henceforth, and, Deut. xxiii. 15, utterly outwitted.

Who in his senses believes that in the expression, "He is his money," the object was to inculcate
the doctrine that the servant was a chattel? The obvious meaning is, he is worth money to his
master, and since, if the master killed him, it would take money out of his pocket, the pecuniary
loss, the kind of instrument used, and the fact of his living some time after the injury, (as,
if the master meant to kill, he would be likely to do it while about it,) all together make
out a strong case of presumptive evidence clearing the master of intent to kill. But let us
look at the objector's inferences. One is, that as the master might dispose of his property
as he pleased, he was not to be punished, if he destroyed it. Answer. Whether the servant died
under the master's hand, or continued a day or two, he was equally his master's property, and
the objector admits that in the first case the master is to be "surely punished" for destroying
his own property! The other inference is, that since the continuance of a day or two, cleared
the master of intent to kill, the loss of the slave would be a sufficient punishment for inflicting
the injury which caused his death. This inference makes the Mosaic law false to its own principles.
A pecuniary loss, constituted no part of the claims of the law, where a person took the life
of another. In such case, the law utterly spurned money, however large the sum. God would not
so cheapen human life, as to balance it with such a weight. "Ye shall take no satisfaction
for the life of a murderer, but he shall surely be put to death." See Numb. xxxv. 31. Even
in excusable homicide, a case of death purely accidental, as where an axe slipped from the
helve and killed a man, no sum of money availed to release from confinement in the city of
refuge, until the death of the High Priest. Numbers xxxv. 32. The doctrine that the loss of
the servant would be a penalty adequate to the desert of the master, admits the master's guilt--his
desert of some punishment, and it prescribes a kind of punishment, rejected by the law, in
all cases where man took the life of man, whether with or without intent to kill. He was a man
of fifty-five, large, bony, with the huge hands of an old workman; one of his delights was to
carry off the knives and scissors of his tenants, which he sharpened himself for his own amusement.
He owned the large tenement-house on the Rue Goutte d'Or, in which
resided the Coupeaus, Lorilleux, and others, and though a fair landlord,
would brook no delay in payment of rent, turning out defaulters without
mercy.

L'Assommoir.

MAREUIL (M. DE), a retired sugar-refiner of Havre whose real name was Bonnet. After amassing a large
fortune, he married a young girl of good birth, whose name he assumed. He was ambitious and hoped
to become a member of the Corps Legislatif through the influence of his friend Saccard, whose
brother Eugene Rougon was a Minister of State. To secure this he agreed to a marriage between
his daughter and Maxime Saccard. He was a man of solemn and imposing appearance, but was absolutely
without brains. La Curee.

MAREUIL (MADAME HELENE DE), wife of the preceding. She came of a noble and wealthy family, but
lived such a fast life that she died young, worn out by pleasure.
La Curee.

MAREUIL (LOUISE DE), daughter of a retired sugar-refiner of Havre. Slightly deformed and plain-looking,
but with fascinating manners, she married Maxime Saccard, to whom she brought a large dowry.
Six months afterwards she died of consumption in Italy. La Curee.

MAREUIL (COMTESSE), employed Clara Prunaire in her house to attend to the mending of linen.
Au Bonheur des Dames.

MARGAILLAN, a great building contractor, many times a millionaire, who made his fortune out of
the great public works of Paris, running up whole boulevards on his own account. He was a man
of remarkable activity, with a great gift of administration, and an instinctive knowledge of
the streets to construct and the buildings to buy. Moved by the success of Dubuche at the School
of Art, and by the recommendations of his masters there, Margaillan took the young architect
into partnership, and agreed to his marriage with his daughter Regine.

Unfortunately, Dubuche showed deplorable incapacity in carrying into practice the theories
which he had learned at the School of Art, and Margaillan, after
losing considerable sums, returned to his original methods of construction,
thrusting his son-in-law to one side.

He possessed a magnificent estate named La Richaudiere, near Bennecourt.
L'Oeuvre.

MARGAILLAN (MADAME), wife of the preceding.

She was a girl of the middle-classes, whose family history was a bad one, and after suffering
for years from anemia, she ultimately died of phthisis. L'Oeuvre.

MARGAILLAN (REGINE), daughter of the preceding, and wife of Louis Dubuche. She was very delicate,
and suffered from a phthisical tendency derived from her mother, which in turn she handed to
her two children, Gaston and Alice. It was frequently necessary for her to leave home for the
benefit of her health, and during her absences the children were left at La Richaudiere in charge
of their father. L'Oeuvre.

MARIA, an actress at the Theatre des Varietes. Nana.

MARJOLIN, a boy who was found in a heap of cabbages at the Paris market. It was never known who
his parents were, and he became the adopted child of the place, always finding a lodging with one
or other of the market-women. Later on he lived with Madame Chantemesse, who had adopted Cadine,
another foundling, and the two children grew up together, becoming inseparable. Marjolin was
always of slow intellect, and as the result of an injury to his head
he became practically an idiot.

Gavard gave him employment in the poultry market. Le Ventre de Paris.

MARSOULLIER, proprietor of the Hotel Boncoeur, where Gervaise Macquart and Lantier put up when
they came to Paris. L'Assommoir.

MARTIN, coachman to Dr. Cazenove. He was an old man who formerly served in the navy, and had his
leg amputated by Cazenove. La Joie de Vivre.

MARTINE, the old servant of Dr. Pascal, with whom she had been for thirty years. She brought up
Clotilde Rougon, whose affection for the doctor excited her jealousy later on. Martine, who was devoted
to her master, desired to force him to be reconciled with the Church, but Clotilde, at first
her accomplice, escaped from religious influences and gave herself entirely to Pascal, leaving
Martine with no other resource but prayer. She was extremely avaricious, but when the doctor
was ruined, her devotion was such that she used some of her own money to purchase the necessaries
of life for him. Distracted at the sudden death of her master, and in the hope of saving him
from damnation, she assisted Madame Felicite Rougon to destroy his great work on heredity, which
in her narrow-minded bigotry she believed was intended to subvert true religion. The work of
destruction completed, she went away to live by herself at Sainte-Marthe, as she refused to serve
any other master than the one she had been with so many years. Le
Docteur Pascal.

MARTINEAU (M.), a notary of Coulonges, and brother of Madame Correur. He ignored his sister
for many years, but his principles would not allow him to disinherit
her, and he made a will under which his property would be divided
between her and his wife.

Soon thereafter, Madame Correur, knowing him to be in bad health, denounced him as a dangerous
Republican to Rougon, then Minister of the Interior, and his arrest
followed.

The shock, together with the unnecessary harshnesses displayed by Gilquin, the commissary
of police, caused Martineau's death, and the subsequent popular outcry had much to do with Rougon's
second resignation of office. Son Excellence Eugene Rougon.

MARTINEAU (MADAME), wife of the preceding. Son Excellence Eugene
Rougon.

MARSY (COMTE DE), Minister of the Interior before Eugene Rougon, who succeeded him on his appointment
as President of the Corps Legislatif.

Marsy, who was said to be the son of a queen, was brilliant, immoral, and unscrupulous. He was the
chief political opponent of Eugene Rougon and had great influence at the Court of Napoleon III.
Son Excellence Eugene Rougon.

MARTY (M.), a master at the Lycee Bonaparte, who was being ruined by the extravagance of his wife,
and was obliged to double his salary by giving private lessons, in order to meet the constantly
growing household expenses. Au Bonheur des Dames.

MARTY (MADAME), wife of the preceding, was a woman of about thirty-five years of age, whose
face, never beautiful, was now much marked by small-pox. She had a perfect mania for spending money
on clothes, and never visited "The Ladies'Paradise" without buying
innumerable articles for which she had no need.

As a result of her extravagance, her husband was nearly ruined, and was forced to increase his
earnings by giving private lessons. Au Bonheur des Dames.

MARTY (VALENTINE), daughter of the preceding, a young girl of fourteen
years of age, who was used by her mother as an excuse for some of
her extravagance, as she dressed her like herself, with all the fashionable
novelties of which she submitted to the irresistible seduction.

Au Bonheur des Dames.

MASCART (PERE), a blind paralytic to whom Angelique showed much kindness.
Le Reve.

MASSACRE, one of the dogs of old Soulas, the shepherd. It shared the hatred of its master of La
Cognette. La Terre.

MASSIAS, a frequenter of the Paris Bourse, where he gained a living by bringing business to
stockbrokers, from whom he received a commission on each transaction. He was employed by Saccard
after the foundation of the Universal Bank, and by speculating in the shares he made a considerable
fortune. With the downfall of the institution, he lost everything, and found himself in debt
for a large sum. By borrowing from friends, and pledging his entire life, he paid his debts
and started afresh. L'Argent.

MASSICOT, a tradesman of Plassans who was enrolled and armed by Pierre Rougon to deliver the
Town Hall from the Republicans who had occupied it. He was so excited that when he got into
the building he fired in the air without knowing he had done so.
La Fortune des Rougon.

MATHIAS, an old hunchback who worked on the farm of La Borderie.
La Terre.

MATHIEU, a large dog which belonged to the Chanteaus at Bonneville and was a great favourite of the
family. The death of this animal greatly accelerated the unreasoning
fear of inevitable mortality with which the mind of Lazare Chanteau
was becoming obsessed.

La Joie de Vivre.

MATHILDE, an actress at the Theatre des Varietes. Nana.

MATIGNON, a draper in Paris, whose shop was near that of Baudu. Au
Bonheur des Dames.

MAUDIT (ABBE), Vicar of Saint-Roch, Paris, he counted among his parishioners the Josserands
and the Duveyriers. Though well aware of the immorality that went on in his parish, he recognized
the impossibility of stopping it, and did what he could to hide it under the cloak of religion.
When the scandal arose about Madame Auguste Vabre, he was approached by her relations, and at
their request acted as intermediary between the husband and wife.
Pot-Bouille.

MAUGENDRE (M.), father of Madame Jordan; was a retired awning manufacturer
who had made a considerable fortune from his business.

He disapproved of his daughter's marriage, and refused to give her any dowry, on the pretext
that she would have his fortune intact when he was dead and gone. He was a careful man, averse from
speculation, but having on one occasion made a small venture, he gradually became imbued with
the craze. The phenomenal success of the Universal Bank induced him to purchase its shares more
and more wildly, until, when the crash came, he was so deeply committed as to be ruined. Jordan,
who by this time had met with some success in literature, came to
his assistance. L'Argent.

MAUGENDRE (MADAME), wife of the preceding, was at first bitterly opposed to the small speculations
entered into by her husband. She soon got infected with the craze, and became even more reckless
than he, urging him to involve himself more and more deeply in the fortunes of the Universal Bank.
L'Argent.

MAUGENDRE (MARCELLE). See Madame Marcelle Jordan.

MAURIAC (BARON DE), starter at the racecourse of Longchamp. Nana.

MAURIN, a hatter of Plassans, who was selected by the Republicans of that town as their candidate.
At the election he only received about fifteen hundred votes against the rival candidate. M. Delangre.
La Conquete de Plassans.

MAURIN, a notary at Tulettes, who was also Mayor of the Commune. It was he who drew up the certificate
of death of Antoine Macquart from spontaneous combustion.

MAZAUD, a broker on the Paris Bourse, who succeeded on the death of his uncle to one of the largest
businesses in the city. He was young and pleasant-looking, with such remarkable activity and
intuition that he soon came into the first rank. He was also assisted by the fact that he did
business with all the great bankers, and was reputed to have a second cousin employed at the
Havas News Agency.

After the foundation of the Universal Bank, he became the official broker of that institution, and
the great gamble in its shares resolved itself into a duel between
him and Jacoby, the one buying for Saccard and the other selling for
Gundermann.

Mazaud did not speculate on his own account, but the failure of the bank led to so many of
his clients being unable to meet their differences that he was ruined. After putting his affairs
in order so far as possible, he committed suicide. L'Argent.

MAZAUD (MADAME), wife of the preceding. She married for love, and brought to her husband a considerable
fortune. She had two children, a girl and a boy. The suicide of her husband completely overwhelmed
her with grief. L'Argent.

MAZEL, a famous master at the School of Arts, and the last rampart of elegant conventionality. The
first year that the Hanging Committee of the Salon was elected by the artists themselves, Mazel
was chosen president. In the selection of pictures he was susceptible to influence, and was guided
more by the name of the artist than by the quality of the work. L'Oeuvre.

MECHAIN, proprietor of a racing-stable. Hazard, one of his horses, ran in the Grand Prix de Paris.
Nana.

MECHAIN (MADAME), a woman in the employment of Busch, the money-lender and debt collector. She
assisted him in tracing debtors, and in the purchase of securities of bankrupt companies. She was
a cousin of Rosalie Chavaille, mother of Victor Saccard, on whose death she was left with the boy
to bring up. On discovering the paternity of Victor some years later, she and Busch attempted to blackmail
Saccard, but without success, though they had previously got a considerable sum from Caroline Hamelin,
who wished to save Saccard from annoyance. L'Argent.

MEGOT (JUSTINE), a young maid-servant of Renee Saccard. She had a son to Maxime Rougon in 1857,
and was sent to live in the country with the child on a small annuity.
La Curee.

Three years later she married Anselme Thomas, a harness-maker at Plassans. They had two children,
and would have lived happily but for the husband's dislike to her eldest child, Charles Rougon.
Her conduct after marriage was exemplary in every way. Le Docteur
Pascal.

MEHUDIN (MADAME), originally came from Rouen to Paris, where she ever afterwards remained in the
fish trade. As her two daughters, Louise and Claire, got on badly together, she ultimately
divided her business between them, Louise going to the general fish-market, while Claire installed
herself among the fresh-water fish. "From that time the old mother, although she pretended
to have retired from business altogether, would flit from one stall to the other, still interfering
in the selling of the fish, and causing her daughters continual annoyance by the foul insolence
with which she at times spoke to customers." Le Ventre de Paris.

MEHUDIN (CLAIRE), the second daughter of Madame Mehudin, was an idle, fair-complexioned girl,
with a gentle manner. She had, however, a strong will, and was invariably at loggerheads with
others. When Florent became Inspector at the Fish Market, Claire took his part against her mother
and sister, but afterwards went to the opposite extreme when his relations with Louise had
become friendly. It appeared that she had a real affection for him, however, as after his arrest
she assaulted her sister in the belief that she had given information to the police. Le Ventre de
Paris.

MEHUDIN (LOUISE), commonly called La Normande. She was a beautiful woman who had at one time
been engaged to be married to a clerk in the corn-market.

He was, however, accidentally killed, leaving Louise with a son, who was known in the market by
the nickname of Muche. When Florent was first appointed Inspector in the Fish Market, Louise,
who had quarrelled with his sister-in-law, Lisa, did everything she could to annoy him. Afterwards,
partly gratified by his kindness to her son, and partly to annoy Madame Lisa Quenu, she became
reconciled to him. Le Ventre de Paris.

MEINHOLD (MADAME DE), a lady
well-known in the Society of the Second Empire. She was a friend of
Madame de Lauwerens and of the Saccards. La Curee.

MELANIE, cook
in the employment of the Gregoires, with whom she had been for thirty
years. Germinal.

MELANIE, the servant of Denizet, the examining magistrate
at Rouen. The latter was anxious for promotion, in order that his
old servant might be better fed and consequently better tempered.
La Bete Humane.

MELIE, niece of the Fancheurs. She was a girl from
the village of Bennecourt, who waited on Claude Lantier and Christine
in their cottage there, and greatly amused them by her stupidity.
After the death of the Fancheurs, the inn came into the possession
of Melie, but soon lost favour on account of its dirt and disorder.
L'Oeuvre.

MENU (MADEMOISELLE), aunt of Fanny Menu, who lived with
her. She had been an embroideress for thirty years, but her sight
failed and she was obliged to give up work. Fortunately she received
a small legacy from a relative, and on this, added to the earnings
of her niece, she was able to live. Pot-Bouille.

MENU (FANNY), a
young girl who was protected by Narcisse Bachelard. As he on one occasion
found her with Gueulin, his nephew, under compromising circumstances,
he insisted on their marriage, and gave her a handsome dowry. Pot-Bouille.

MERLE,
usher at the Council of State. He was appointed by Eugene Rougon,
through the influence of Madame Correur. Son Excellence Eugene Rougon.

MES
BOTTES, the sobriquet of one of Coupeau's companions. He was a heavy
drinker and an enormous eater, and on account of the latter gift he
was occasionally asked by his friends to join such parties of pleasure
as paid by contract for their entertainment, in order that they might
watch the landlord's face lengthen at the rapid disappearance of food.
Chiefly for this reason, he was asked to the Coupeaus'wedding party.
L'Assommoir.

MEYER, owner of a Viennese bakery in Faubourg Poissonniere.
The Coupeaus bought their bread from him in order to please Lantier.
L'Assommoir.

MICHELIN (M.), a surveyor of the Municipal Council.
"His wife, a pretty woman, occasionally called to apologize to her
husband's chiefs for his absence, when he stayed away through ill-health.
He was often ill, but he obtained promotion at each illness." In order
to secure Saccard's influence, Michelin assisted him in getting exorbitant
prices for land sold to the city. La Curee.

MICHELIN (MADAME), wife
of the preceding. By means of her good looks and a determination to
get on at any cost, she secured the influence of her husband's superiors,
and got rapid promotion for him in the office of the Municipal Council.
La Curee.

MIETTE, the pet name of Marie Chantegreil. (q. v.).

MIETTE,
one of the peasant girls of Les Artaud who assisted to decorate the
church for the festival of the Virgin. La Faute de l'Abbe Mouret.

MIGNON,
a man who, beginning life as a bricklayer, had amassed a fortune by
speculations in building land during the early days of the Second
Empire. Along with Charrier, his partner, he had many business dealings
with Aristide Saccard. La Curee.

MIGNON, husband of an actress at
the Theatre des Varietes. When Rose married him he was leader of the
orchestra at a cafe concert where she sang. They were the best of
friends, and lived together on the earnings of the wife, who exploited
her beauty not less than her talents. Mignon was always on the best
of terms with his wife's lovers, even assisting them occasionally
to deceive her, with the view of bringing them back in penitence later
on. Nana.

MIGNON (CHARLES), younger son of the preceding. Nana.

MIGNON
(HENRI), elder son of Mignon. Along with his brother Charles he was
educated at a boarding-school. Nana.

MIGNON (ROSE), wife of Mignon,
was a star actress at the Theatre des Varietes, being a fine comedienne
and an admirable singer. She was dark and thin with that charming
ugliness which is peculiar to the gamins of Paris. It was she who,
annoyed by the rivalry of Nana, one day made Comte de Muffat aware
of the liaison between his wife and Fauchery. She was, however, a
good-hearted woman, and when she learned that Nana had contracted
small-pox she arranged for her removal to the Grand Hotel, and nursed
her there till she died. Nana.

MIGNOT, one of the salesmen in the
glove department at "The Ladies'Paradise." He entered into a conspiracy
with Albert Lhomme to defraud his employer, and this was successful
to a considerable extent before its discovery; his dismissal followed,
but there was no prosecution, as the firm preferred not to bring its
internal affairs before the public eye. Deut. xv. 12-13. (2.) The hired servant was paid in money, the
bought servant received his gratuity, at least, in grain, cattle, and the product of the vintage.
Deut. xiv. 17. (3.) The hired servant lived by himself, in his own family. The bought servant
was a part of his master's family. (4.) The hired servant supported his family out of his wages;
the bought servant and his family, were supported by the master besides his wages.

A careful investigation of the condition of "hired" and of "bought" servants, shows that the
latter were, as a class, superior to the former--were more trust-worthy, had greater privileges,
and occupied in every respect (other things being equal) a higher station in society. (1.)
They were intimately incorporated with the family of the master. They were guests at family
festivals, and social solemnities, from which hired servants were excluded. Lev. xxii. 10;
Exod. xii. 43, 45. (2) Their interests were far more identified with the general interests
of their masters' family. Bought servants were often actually, or prospectively, heirs of their
master's estate. Witness the case of Eliezer, of Ziba, of the sons of Bilhah, and Zilpah, and
others. When there were no sons to inherit the estate, or when, by unworthiness, they had forfeited
their title, bought servants were made heirs. Proverbs xvii. 2. We find traces of this usage
in the New Testament. "But when the husbandmen saw him, they reasoned among themselves, saying,
this is the heir, come let us kill him, that the inheritance may be ours." Luke xx. 14; also
Mark xii. 7. In no instance on Bible record, does a hired servant inherit his master's estate.
(3.) Marriages took place between servants and their master's daughters. 1 Chron. ii. 34, 35.
There is no instance of a hired servant forming such an alliance.

(4.) Bought servants and their descendants seem to have been regarded with the same affection
and respect as the other members of the family[A]. The treatment of Eliezer, and the other
servants in the family of Abraham, Gen. chap. 25--the intercourse between Gideon and his servant
Phurah, Judges vii. 10, 11. and Saul and his servant, in their interview with Samuel, 1 Sam.
ix. 5, 22; and Jonathan and his servant, 1 Sam. xiv. 1-14, and Elisha and his servant Gehazi,
are illustrations. No such tie seems to have existed between hired servants and their masters.
Their untrustworthiness seems to have been proverbial. See John ix. 12, 13.

None but the lowest class seem to have engaged as hired servants. No instance occurs in which
they are assigned to business demanding much knowledge or skill. Various passages show the
low repute and trifling character of the class from which they were hired. Judges ix. 4; 1
Sam. ii. 5.

The superior condition and privileges of bought servants, are manifested in the high trusts
confided to them, and in the dignity and authority with which they were clothed in their master's
household. But in no instance is a hired servant thus distinguished. In some cases, the bought
servant is manifestly the master's representative in the family--with plenipotentiary powers
over adult children, even negotiating marriage for them. Abraham besought Eliezer his servant,
to take a solemn oath, that HE would not take a wife for Isaac of the daughters of the Canaanites,
but from Abraham's kindred. The servant went accordingly, and himself selected the individual. At
the time her husband was dismissed from the pit, she already held a licence, and they subsequently
worked together to extend the business, in which they had considerable success. She was much more
radical in politics than her husband, but during the strike trouble was careful to show extreme politeness
to everyone. Germinal.

RASTOIL, a neighbour of Francois Mouret. He was a rich man about sixty years of age, who had been
president of the civil tribunal of Plassans for over twenty years. He was a Legitimist, and
his house was used as a convenient meeting-place for the party. For some time he refused to
compromise his political position with Abbe Faujas, who had all along concealed his opinions.
Ultimately, however, he supported the candidate for the representation of Plassans proposed by
Faujas, for which he was rewarded by an appointment for his son.
La Conquete de Plassans.

RASTOIL
(MADAME), wife of the preceding, was a listless and somewhat prudish woman whose old entanglement
with M. Delangre was still remembered with amusement in the cafes.

La Conquete de Plassans.

RASTOIL (ANGELINE), elder daughter of M. Rastoil, the president of the civil tribunal of Plassans.
Though twenty-six years old, and now very yellow and shrewish-looking, she still adopted the role
of a young girl, and had hopes of securing a husband. La Conquete
de Plassans.

RASTOIL (AURELIE), second daughter of M. Rastoil. Like her sister Angeline, she was plain-looking,
and posed as a girl fresh from school, in the uncertain hope of gaining a husband. La Conquete
de Plassans.

RASTOIL (SEVERIN), son of M. Rastoil, the president of the civil tribunal of Plassans. "He
was a tall young man of five and twenty, with a badly shaped skull and a dull brain, who had
been just called to the Bar, thanks to the position which his father held. The latter was anxiously
dreaming of making him a substitute, despairing of his ever succeeding in winning any practice
for himself." On the suggestion of Abbe Faujas he took a share in starting the Club for Young
Men at Plassans. After the election of M. Delangre as representative of Plassans, Rastoil received the
appointment of assistant public procurator at Faverolles. La Conquete de Plassans. A young
soldier in his company was the first of the wounded to be taken to the ambulance in Delaherche's
house on 1st September, 1870. In March, 1871, captain Ravaud was at Paris, in a regiment of recent
formation, the 124th of the line. Jean Macquart was corporal in his
company in this regiment. La Debacle.

READING
(LORD), proprietor of a racing stable. Bramah, one of his horses, once gained the Grand Prix
de Paris. Nana.

REBUFAT, a farmer whose land adjoined that inherited by Adelaide Fouque. He purchased the Fouque
property when it was sold by Pierre Rougon. After the death of his wife Rebufat and his son Justin
treated her niece Miette Chantegreil very harshly. La Fortune des
Rougon.

REBUFAT (MADAME EULALIE), wife of the preceding; "a big, dark, stubborn shrew." She was a sister of
Chantegreil, and was therefore the aunt of Miette, who lived with her after her father's conviction.
La Fortune des Rougon.
REBUFAT (JUSTIN), son of Rebufat. "A youth about twenty years old,
a sickly, squint-eyed creature, who cherished an implacable hatred
against his cousin Miette." La Fortune des Rougon.

REMANJOU (MADEMOISELLE),
an old lady who lived in the same tenement house in Rue de la Goutte
d'Or as the Coupeaus and the Lorilleux, where she made a scanty livelihood
by dressing dolls. She was one of the guests at the Coupeaus'wedding
party. L'Assommoir.

RENAUDIN, a notary at Paris, who adjusted the
Contract of Marriage between Auguste Vabre and Berthe Josserand. He
acted in concert with Duveyrier in selling some heritable property
to the loss of other members of the family. Pot-Bouille.

RENAUDIN,
a medical man at Grenelle. Josephine Dejoie was at one time cook in
his house. L'Argent.
The Israelite was to serve six years--the Stranger until the jubilee[A].

[Footnote A: Both classes may with propriety be called permanent servants; even the bought
Israelite, when his six-years' service is contrasted with the brief term of the hired servant.]

As the Strangers could not own the soil, nor even houses, except within walled towns, most
of them would choose to attach themselves permanently to Israelitish families. Those Strangers
who were wealthy, or skilled in manufactures, instead of becoming servants themselves, would
need servants for their own use, and as inducements for the Strangers to become servants to
the Israelites, were greater than persons of their own nation could hold out to them, these
wealthy Strangers would naturally procure the poorer Israelites for servants. See Levit. xxv.
47. In a word, such was the political condition of the Strangers, the Jewish polity furnished
a strong motive to them, to become servants, thus incorporating themselves with the nation,
and procuring those social and religious privileges already enumerated, and for their children
in the second generation, a permanent inheritance. If each man's earnings should go into a common
stock for the use of all, there would be nothing that any one could call his own. But if each
is to provide for himself, he must have a right to use and enjoy
the fruits of his own labor.§ 5. None but the monied aristocracy among them, would be likely to decline
such offers.

For various reasons, this class, (the servants bought from the Strangers,) would prefer a long
service. They would thus more effectually become absorbed into the national circulation, and
identify their interests with those in whose gift were all things desirable for themselves,
and brighter prospects for their children. Pot-Bouille.

BADEUIL (CHARLES), married Laure Fouan, and went to live at Chartres. He tried commerce without
much success, and, haunted by a desire for rapid fortune, acquired a maison publique which had
fallen into bad repute through mismanagement. Thanks to the firm control of Badeuil, and the extraordinary
activity of his wife, the establishment prospered, and in less than twenty-five years the couple
had saved three hundred thousand francs. They were then able to realize the dream of their life,
and to retire to the country, where they purchased a property named Roseblanche, near Madame
Badeuil's native place. M. Badeuil was a handsome man, sixty-five years of age, with a solemn face,
and the air of a retired magistrate. He was respected by his neighbours, and held the strictest
views on morality. The old couple lived in complete happiness, their only worry being that
Vaucogne, who had married their daughter Estelle and taken over the property in Chartres, was not managing
it properly. La Terre.

BADEUIL (MADAME LAURE), wife of the preceding, was the youngest daughter of Joseph Casimir Fouan.
She was the sister of La Grande, of Pere Fouan, and of Michel Fouan, known as Mouche. When
her father's estate was divided, she got no land, but received an
indemnity in money instead.

After she and her husband acquired the establishment in Chartres, she assisted ably in its management.
At the time of their retirement to the country, she was a woman of sixty-two years of age,
of respectable appearance and an air of religious seclusion. She set a good example by going
regularly to Mass, and paid great attention to the education of her granddaughter, Elodie,
whom she endeavoured to bring up in entire ignorance of life. She had, however, still a passion
for active life, and in busy seasons frequently returned to Chartres to assist her daughter,
who had taken over the establishment there. Madame Badeuil received the greatest surprise of
her life when she found that her granddaughter whom she had brought up in the innocence of ignorance,
was quite aware of the source of the family fortune, and was ready
to take up the work begun by her grandparents.

La Terre.

BADEUIL (ESTELLE), daughter of the preceding, was educated by the Sisters of the Visitation
at Chateaudun, and at eighteen was married to Hector Vaucogne, by whom she had one daughter,
Elodie. She was thirty years of age before she had any suspicion of the calling of her parents,
and at that time she took over the management of their establishment. She proved a capable manager,
and in spite of the laziness of her husband, was able to keep up the reputation of the house, though
in a few years she killed herself with hard work. La Terre.

BADINGUET, a popular nickname for Napoleon III. It was the name of the workman whose clothes he wore when
he escaped from the fortress of Ham. Son Excellence Eugene Rougon.

BAILLEHACHE, a notary at Cloyes, was born in 1805, and succeeded to several generations of lawyers.
He had a large business amongst the peasantry, in whose quarrels he mediated with professional
calmness. He arranged the division of Fouan's property between the various members of the old man's family.
La Terre.

BAILLEHACHE (MADEMOISELLE), eldest sister of the preceding, was born in 1799. She was plain-looking,
but good-natured, and at thirty-two married Alexandre Hourdequin, to whom she brought a considerable
dowry. She had two children, a son and a daughter, and died in 1855.
La Terre.

BALBI (CLORINDE), daughter of Comtesse Balbi, was a lady of great beauty, but of eccentric habits.
Her position in society being precarious, she determined to establish it by a good marriage, and used
every endeavour to induce Eugene Rougon to make her his wife. Having become fascinated by her
beauty and charm, he made overtures which she resisted in the belief that he would be the
more certain to marry her. He practically decided to do so, but reflection convinced him that marriage
with Clorinde Balbi would only injure his prospects of political success. He suggested to her that she
should marry his friend Delestang, who was a man of wealth and position, and had expressed
admiration for her. Though naturally piqued at such a suggestion
coming from Rougon, she consented, and soon after was married. She
remained on outwardly friendly terms with Rougon, who was still infatuated
by her, but was determined to make him regret the slight he had put
upon her. After Rougon's return to office, Delestang, her husband,
was, at her request, appointed Minister of Commerce and Agriculture.
She had not, however, forgiven Rougon, and privately took a leading
part in the agitation against his administration. Having become on
somewhat equivocal terms with the Emperor, she was able to secure
the acceptance of Rougon's second resignation, and the office of Minister
of the Interior for her husband. Son Excellence Eugene Rougon.

BALBI
(COMTESSE LENORA), an Italian lady who lived in Paris with her daughter
Clorinde.

Elisha "was plowing with twelve yoke of oxen" when Elijah threw his mantle upon him. 1 Kings
xix. 19. King Uzziah "loved husbandry." 2 Chron. xxvi. 10. Gideon, the deliverer of Israel,
was "threshing wheat by the wine press" when called to lead the host against the Midianites.
Judges vi. 11. The superior honorableness of agriculture, is shown by the fact, that it was
protected and supported by the fundamental law of the theocracy--God thus indicating it as
the chief prop of the government, and putting upon it peculiar honor. An inheritance of land
seems to have filled out an Israelite's idea of worldly furnishment. They were like permanent
fixtures on their soil, so did they cling to it. To be agriculturalists on their own inheritances,
was, in their notions, the basis of family consequence, and the grand claim to honorable estimation.
Agriculture being pre-eminently a Jewish employment, to assign a native Israelite to other
employments as a business, was to break up his habits, do violence to cherished predilections,
and put him to a kind of labor in which he had no skill, and which he deemed degrading. In
short, it was, in the earlier ages of the Mosaic system, practically to unjew him, a hardship
and rigor grievous to be borne, as it annihilated a visible distinction between the descendants
of Abraham and the Strangers--a distinction vital to the system, and gloried in by every Jew.

To guard this and another fundamental distinction, God instituted the regulation contained
in Leviticus xxv. 39, which stands at the head of this branch of our inquiry, "If thy brother
that dwelleth by thee be waxen poor, and be sold unto thee, thou shalt not compel him to serve
as a bond-servant." In other words, thou shalt not put him to servants' work--to the business,
and into the condition of domestics.

In the Persian version it is translated thus, "Thou shalt not assign to him the work of servitude,"
(or menial labor.) In the Septuagint thus, "He shall not serve thee with the service of a domestic
or household servant." In the Syriac thus, "Thou shalt not employ him after the manner of servants."
In the Samaritan thus, "Thou shalt not require him to serve in the service of a servant." In
the Targum of Onkelos thus, "He shall not serve thee with the service of a household servant."
In the Targum of Jonathan thus, "Thou shalt not cause him to serve according to the usages
of the servitude of servants[A]." He gave out that he had retrenched the passages which had excited
the royal disapproval, and requested that the play might be re-examined. A new censor of high
literary reputation reported to the head of the police [2] that if
one or two passages were corrected, and one or two expressions, which
were liable to be misinterpreted, were suppressed, he foresaw no danger
in allowing the representation.

Beaumarchais at once promised to make the required corrections, and one of Madame de Polignac's
friends, the Count de Vaudreuil, the very nobleman with whom that lady's name was by many discreditably
connected, obtained the king's leave to perform it at his country house, that thus an opportunity
might be afforded for judging whether or not the alterations which had been made were sufficient
to render its performance innocent.

The king was assured that the passages which he had regarded as mischievous
were suppressed or divested of their sting.

Marie Antoinette apparently had her suspicions; but Louis could never long withstand repeated
solicitations, and, as he had not, when Madame de Campan read it, formed any very high opinion of its
literary merits, he thought that, now that it was deprived of its venom, it would be looked
upon as heavy, and would fail accordingly. Some good judges, such as the Marquis de Montesquieu,
were of the same opinion. The actors thought differently. "It is my belief," said a man of fashion
to the witty Mademoiselle Arnould, using the technical language of the theatre, "that your play
will be'damned.'" "Yes," she replied, "it will, fifty nights running." But, even if Louis had
heard of her prophecy, he would have disregarded it. He gave his permission for the performance
to take place, and on the 27th April, 1784, "The Marriage of Figaro" was accordingly acted to
an audience which filled the house to the very ceiling; and which
the long uncertainty as to whether it would ever be seen or not had
disposed to applaud every scene and every repartee, and even to see
wit where none existed.

To an impartial critic, removed both by time and country from the agitation which had taken
place, it will probably seem that the play thus obtained a reception
far beyond its merits.
But it was that of the head of a family, who had lived independently on his own inheritance,
and long known better days, now reduced to poverty, forced to relinquish the loved inheritance
of his fathers, with the competence and respectful consideration its possession secured to
him, and to be indebted to a neighbor for shelter, sustenance, and employment, both for himself
and his family. Surely so sad a reverse, might well claim sympathy; but there remaineth to
him one consolation, and it cheers him in the house of his pilgrimage. He is an Israelite--Abraham
is his father, and now in his calamity he clings closer than ever, to the distinction conferred
by the immunities of his birthright. To rob him of this, were "the unkindest cut of all." To
have assigned him to a grade of service filled only by those whose permanent business was serving,
would have been to rule over him with peculiar rigor.

[Footnote A: These two latter classes are evidently referred to in Exod. xxi. 1-6, and Deut.
xv. 12]

Finally, the former part of the regulation, "Thou shalt not compel him to serve as a bond-servant,"
or more literally, thou shall not serve thyself with him, with the service of a servant, guaranties
his political privileges, and secures to him a kind and grade of service, comporting with his
character and relations as a son of Israel. Lantier, having become a lodger with the Coupeaus,
ceased doing any work, and as he never paid anything for his board, his presence not unnaturally
hastened the downfall of his hosts. Circumstances conspired to renew the old relations between
Gervaise and Lantier, and by easy stages she descended that somewhat slippery stair which leads
to ruin. The shop was given up, and she again got employment in the laundry of Madame Fauconnier,
though she was no longer the capable workwoman of former times. Nana, her daughter, vicious from
childhood, had taken to evil courses; her husband had at least one attack of delirium tremens;
and she herself was fast giving way to intemperance.

The end was rapid. Coupeau died in the asylum of Sainte-Anne after an illness the description
of which is for pure horror unparalleled in fiction; while Gervaise, after sinking to the lowest
depths of degradation and poverty, died miserably in a garret. The tragedy of it all is that Gervaise,
despite her early lapse with Lantier, was a good and naturally virtuous woman, whose ruin was wrought
by circumstances and by the operation of the relentless laws of heredity.

It may be useful to note here that though Zola states in L'Assommoir that Gervaise and Lantier had
two sons (Claude, born 1842, and Etienne, born 1846), he makes a third son (Jacques, born 1844),
not elsewhere mentioned, the hero of La Bete Humaine, a subsequent
work in the Rougon-Macquart series.

L'Oeuvre.

A
novel dealing with artistic life in Paris towards the close of the
Second Empire.

Claude Lantier, the eldest son of Auguste Lantier and Gervaise Macquart (La Fortune des Rougon
and L'Assommoir), had been educated at Plassans by an old gentleman who was interested in his childish
skill in drawing. His benefactor died, leaving him a sum which yielded an annual income of a thousand
francs, and he came to Paris to follow an artistic career. There he met Dubuche, Pierre Sandoz,
and others of his former schoolboy friends, and the little band formed a coterie of revolutionary spirits,
whose aim was to introduce new ideas and drastic changes into the
accepted canons of art.

Claude attempted to embody his theories in a picture which he called Plein Air ("Open Air")
in which he went direct to nature for inspiration, and threw aside all recognized conventions.
The picture was refused by the committee of the Salon, and when subsequently shown at a minor
exhibition was greeted with derision by the public. The artist was in despair, and left Paris
with Christine Hallegrain, a young girl between whom and himself a chance acquaintanceship had ripened
into love. They lived happily in a little cottage in the country for several years, a son being
born to them, but Claude became restless, and they returned to Paris. Here he gradually became obsessed
by an idea for a great picture, which would show the truth of his theories and cover his detractors
with confusion. What boots it to reason against such
rampant affinities!

In Exodus, chap. i. 13, 14, it is said that the Egyptians "made the children of Israel to serve
with rigor," "and all their service wherein they made them serve, was with rigor." The rigor
here spoken of, is affirmed of the amount of labor extorted from them, and the mode of the
exaction. This form of expression, "serve with rigor," is never applied to the service of servants
either under the Patriarchal, or the Mosaic systems. Nor is any other form of expression ever
used, either equivalent to it, or at all similar. The phrase, "thou shalt not RULE over him
with rigor," used in Leviticus xxv. 43, 46, does not prohibit unreasonable exactions of labor,
nor inflictions of personal cruelty. Such were provided against otherwise. But it forbids,
confounding the distinctions between a Jew and a Stranger, by assigning the former to the same
grade of service, for the same term of time, and under the same national and political disabilities
as the latter.

We are now prepared to survey at a glance, the general condition of the different classes of
servants, with the modifications peculiar to each class. I. In the possession of all fundamental
rights, all classes of servants were on an absolute equality, all were equally protected by
law in their persons, character, property and social relations. All were voluntary, all were
compensated for their labor. All were released from their regular labor nearly one half of
the days in each year, all were furnished with stated instruction; none in either class were
in any sense articles of property, all were regarded as men, with the rights, interests, hopes,
and destinies of men. In these respects the circumstances of all classes of servants among
the Israelites, were not only similar but identical, and so far forth, they formed but ONE CLASS.

II. DIFFERENT CLASSES OF SERVANTS.

1. Hired Servants.--This class consisted both of Israelites and Strangers. Their employments
were different. The Israelite, was an agricultural servant. The Stranger was a domestic and
personal servant, and in some instances mechanical; both were occasional, procured temporally
to serve an emergency. Both lived in their own families, their wages were money, and they were
paid when their work was done. As a class of servants, the hired were less loved, trusted,
honored and promoted than any other.

2. Bought Servants, (including those "born in the house.")--This class also, was composed both
of Israelites and Strangers, the same general difference obtaining in their kinds of employment
as was noticed before. Both were paid in advance[A], and neither was temporary.

[Footnote A: The payment in advance, doubtless lessened considerably the price of the purchase;
the servant thus having the use of the money from the beginning, and the master assuming all
the risks of life, and health for labor; at the expiration of the six years' contract, the
master having experienced no loss from the risk incurred at the making of it, was obliged by
law to release the servant with a liberal gratuity. The reason assigned for this is, "he hath
been worth a double hired servant unto thee in serving thee six years," as if it had been said,
he has now served out his time, and as you have experienced no loss from the risks of life,
and ability to labor which you incurred in the purchase, and which lessened the price, and
as, by being your permanent servant for six years, he has saved you all the time and trouble
of looking up and hiring laborers on emergencies, therefore, "thou shalt furnish him liberally,"
&c.]

The Israelitish servant, in most instances, was released after six years. (The freeholder continued
until the jubilee.) The Stranger, was a permanent servant, continuing until the jubilee. Besides
these distinctions between Jewish and Gentile bought servants, a marked distinction obtained
between different classes of Jewish bought servants. Au Bonheur des Dames.

COLOMBE. See Pere Colombe.

COMBELOT (M. DE), an Imperial Chamberlain whom the Department of the Landes had chosen as deputy upon
the formally expressed desire of the Emperor. He was a tall, handsome man, with a very white skin,
and an inky black beard, which had been the means of winning him great favour among the ladies.
He was married to a sister of Delestang. Son Excellence Eugene Rougon.

COMBELOT (MADAME DE), see Henriette Delestang.

COMBETTE, a chemist at Chene-Populeux.

He was assessor to the mayor, and the information which he received on the night of 27th August,
1870, satisfied him of the unhappy state of the Army of Chalons, which was then on its way to the
front. La Debacle.

COMBETTE (MADAME), wife of the preceding. It was she who on the evening of 27th August, 1870, offered
hospitality to the soldier Maurice Levasseur, who was worn out with fatigue and with the pain
of his foot, which had been injured by the long march. La Debacle.

COMBEVILLE (DUCHESSE DE), mother of Princess d'Orviedo.

L'Argent.

COMBOREL ET CIE, a firm of ship-owners who entered into the great
transport syndicate founded by Aristide Saccard.

L'Argent.

COMPAN (ABBE), vicar of the church of Saint-Saturnin at Plassans. He was on bad terms with Abbe
Fenil, and consequently the other priests were afraid to have any intercourse with him, Abbe
Bourrette alone visiting him during his last illness. La Conquete
de Plassans.

CONDAMIN (M. DE), commissioner of woods and rivers for the district
of Plassans.

He was an elderly man, whose morality was looked upon with some suspicion by the respectable
inhabitants of Plassans. He married a young wife, whom he brought from no one knew where, but who
had evidently influential friends at Paris, as it was she who got her husband and Dr. Porquier
decorated. La Conquete de Plassans.

CONDAMIN (MADAME DE), wife of the preceding. She was at first received with some suspicion at Plassans,
nothing being known of her past history, but by the charm of her manner she soon overcame prejudice.
Madame Mouret having asked her assistance in connection with the Home for Girls proposed by Abbe Faujas,
she entered heartily into the scheme and used her influence on its behalf. Acting on advice
from her influential friends at Paris, she assisted Faujas in the schemes which resulted in
the election of M. Delangre as deputy for Plassans. La Conquete de
Plassans.

CONIN, a stationer at the corner of Rue Feydeau, who supplied note-books to most members of the Bourse.
He was assisted in the business by his wife, and seldom came out
of the back shop.

L'Argent.

CONIN (MADAME), wife of the preceding. She was on too friendly terms with many of her customers, but
was so discreet that no scandal arose. L'Argent.

COQUART (LES), proprietors of the farm of Saint-Juste, which, however, they were forced by bad
times to sell. The family consisted of the father, mother, three sons and two daughters. La
Terre.

COQUETS, neighbours of the Lorilleux in Rue de la Goutte-d'Or. They took a fancy to light their cooking-stove
on the stair-landing, and, as they also owed their term's rent, they were given notice to quit.
L'Assommoir.

CORBIERE (COMTE DE), proprietor of the Paradou, an estate near Artaud. When he died, the care
of the property was confided to Jeanbernat, a foster-brother of the Comte. La Faute de l'Abbe
Mouret.

CORBREUSE (DUC DE), proprietor of a racing-stable. Nana.

CORNAILLE, the principal draper in Valognes. Denise Baudu served her apprenticeship to him.
Au Bonheur des Dames.

CORNEMUSE, a racehorse which was the prize of the City of Paris.
Nana.

CORNILLE, a member of the firm of Cornille and Jenard, who held in the eighteenth century the
mineral concession of Joiselle, which was joined in 1760 to two neighbouring concessions, those
of Comte de Cougny and of Baron Desrumaux, in order to form the Company of the Mines of Montsou.
Germinal.

CORNILLE (ABBE), one of the clergy of the cathedral of Beaumont. He accompanied Monseigneur
d'Hautecoeur when the latter came to administer the last rites of the Church to Angelique. Le
Reve.

CORREUR (MADAME MELANIE), was the daughter of a notary of Coulonges, a town in the district of
Niort. When she was twenty-four years old she eloped with a journeyman butcher, and thereafter
lived in Paris, ignored by her family. For some time she kept a boarding-house at the Hotel
Vanneau in the Rue Vanneau, where among her lodgers were Eugene Rougon,
Du Poizet, and Theodore Gilquin.

She established a claim on Rougon's gratitude, and he assisted a number of her friends in
obtaining pensions and appointments.

Having ascertained that her brother, M. Martineau, had made a will by which she would benefit,
she, knowing him to be in bad health, denounced him to Rougon as a dangerous Republican. His arrest
and sudden death followed. Son Excellence Eugene Rougon.

COSINUS, a racehorse which ran in the Grand Prix de Paris. Nana.

COSSARD (LE PERE), prompter at the Theatre des Varietes. He was a
little hunchback.

COUDELOUP (MADAME), a baker in Rue des Poissonniers. She supplied the Coupeaus until Lantier
decided that they must have finer bread from a Viennese bakery. L'Assommoir.

COUGNY (COMTE DE), owner in the eighteenth century of the mining concession of Cougny, which
in 1760 was joined to two neighbouring concessions to form the Company of the Mines of Montsou.
Germinal.

COUILLOT (LES), peasants at Rognes. Their son got the number 206 in the drawing for the conscription.
La Terre.

COUPEAU, a zinc-worker, who married Gervaise Macquart after her desertion by Lantier. He was the son
of a drunken father, but was himself steady and industrious until a serious accident caused
by a fall from a roof brought about a change. After that he became unwilling to work and began to
spend his time in public-houses; his days of work became fewer and fewer, until, a confirmed drunkard,
he lived entirely on his wife's earnings. Attacks of delirium tremens followed, and in the
end he died in the Asylum of Sainte-Anne after an attack of more
than usual violence. L'Assommoir.

COUPEAU (MADAME GERVAISE), wife of the preceding. See Gervaise Macquart.
L'Assommoir.

COUPEAU (ANNA, known as NANA), born 1852, was the only child of Coupeau and Gervaise Macquart, his
wife.

Almost from infancy she was allowed to run wild in the gutters of Paris, and even in childhood her
instincts were vicious. At thirteen years of age she was sent to learn artificial-flower making
in the establishment of Madame Titreville, whose forewoman was Madame Lerat, Nana's aunt. She had been there some
time when she began to receive attentions from an elderly gentleman who had noticed her going to work.
Meantime her father and mother had taken to drink so seriously that home life had become intolerable,
and, after one of innumerable quarrels, Nana ran away to her venerable admirer. After a few months
she tired of him and left, to spend her time amongst the low-class dancing-halls, in one of
which she was found by her father, who brought her home, where she remained for a fortnight,
and then ran off again. From time to time she returned, but her visits gradually became less
frequent till they ceased. L'Assommoir.

At sixteen years of age she had a child by an unknown father, and two years later was installed
in a flat in Boulevard Haussmann by a rich merchant of Moscow, who had come to pass the winter
in Paris. Bordenave, the director of the Theatre des Varietes, gave her a part in a play called
La Blonde Venus, and though her voice was poor and she was ignorant of acting, she was by the
sheer force of her beauty an immediate and overwhelming success.

All Paris was at her feet; Comte Muffat, Steiner, the Prince of Scots himself, came in turn to
offer homage. It seemed as if this girl, born of four or five generations of drunkards and brought up on
the pavements of Paris, was to revenge her race upon the idle rich by the wild extravagances into
which she dragged them. Muffat and Steiner were her lovers, and ruined themselves by the vast sums
which she squandered; Georges Hugon killed himself from jealousy of his brother Philippe,
who embezzled for her sake, and brought himself to imprisonment and disgrace; Vandeuvres too, after
courting dishonour, met death at his own hand; and Foucarmont, stripped bare and cast off, went
to perish in the China seas. The procession was unending; more money was always required. After
a successful appearance in a play called Melusine, Nana suddenly left Paris and went to the
East. Strange stories were told of her-- the conquest of a viceroy, a colossal fortune acquired
in Russia-- but nothing definite was known. When she returned to Paris in 1870 she found that
her son Louiset had been attacked by small-pox, and she herself contracted the disease from him.
A few days later she died in a room in the Grand Hotel, nursed only by Rose Mignon, who had come
to her in her trouble. The war with Germany had just broken out, and as she lay dying the passing
crowds were shouting ceaselessly, "A Berlin, A Berlin." Nana.

COUPEAU (LOUIS). See Louiset.

COUPEAU (MADAME), mother of Coupeau the zinc-worker. She was an old woman, and, her sight having
given way, was unable to support herself. Her daughter, Madame Lorilleux, refused anything but
the most trifling assistance, and ultimately Gervaise Coupeau took the old woman into her
own home and supported her till her death, which occurred some years
later.

L'Assommoir.

COURAJOD, a great landscape painter, whose masterpiece, the Pool at Gagny, is in the Luxembourg.
Long before his death he disappeared from the world of art, and lived in a little house at
Montmartre surrounded by his hens, ducks, rabbits, and dogs. He refused to speak of his former
fame, and when Claude Lantier called on him the old man seemed to be entering into a second childhood,
forgetful of his past. L'Oeuvre.

COUTARD, a soldier of infantry who belonged to the Second Division of the First Army Corps,
which was defeated at Wissembourg on 4th August, 1870. He and his companion Picot were slightly
wounded, and were left behind, not being able to rejoin their regiments for three weeks, most of which
they spent tramping the country through wet and mud, endeavouring to overtake the vanquished
army of France. La Debacle.

CRASSE (LA), i. e. "The Dirty." Sobriquet of a professor at the college of Plassans, so called
by the pupils as he marked by the constant rubbing of his head the back of every chair he occupied.
L'Oeuvre.

CREVECOEUR, a lace merchant in Rue Mail. Henri Deloche left his employment, and entered Octave
Mouret's shop on the same day as Denise Baudu. Au Bonheur des Dames.

CRON, a carter at Vendome. He was the father of Leonie Cron. L'Argent.

CRON (LEONIE), the girl to whom the Comte de Beauvilliers gave the document which afterwards came into
the hands of Busch, and was used by him as a means of blackmailing
the widow of the Comte. L'Argent.

CUCHE,
a family of fisher people who resided at Bonneville. They were ruined by their house being washed
away by the sea. The father and mother lived extremely dissolute lives, and their son grew
up little better than a savage. Pauline Quenu made great efforts to reform him, but he refused
all attempts to make him settle down. La Joie de Vivre.

CUDORGE (MADAME), a seller of umbrellas in the Rue Neuve de la Goutte d'Or, where she was a neighbour
of Gervaise Lantier. L'Assommoir.

CUGNOT (PAULINE), daughter of a miller at Chartres who was ruined by a lawsuit. She came to
Paris, and eventually got a situation at "The Ladies'Paradise," where she showed much kindness
to Denise Baudu, who was at first badly treated by the other employees there. Later on she
married Bauge, her lover, but was allowed to retain her situation.
Au Bonheur des Dames.

D DABADIE, chief station-master at Havre.

He was a handsome man, with the bearing of a commercial magnate engrossed in business. Indeed,
he willingly left the passenger department of the station to his assistants, in order that he might
give particular attention to the enormous transit of merchandise at the docks. It is said that
he was on friendly terms with Mademoiselle Guichon, the office-keeper at the station. La Bete
Humaine. DAGUENET (PAUL), the favoured lover of Nana.

His father who was highly esteemed by Louis Philippe, occupied a prefecture up to the time of his
death. As for himself, he had gone through three hundred thousand francs in eighteen months in the pursuit
of pleasure, and was only able to keep going by small speculations on the Stock Exchange. Attracted
by the fortune of Estelle Muffat, he decided to marry her, and with the assistance of Nana obtained
the consent of Count Muffat. Become serious after marriage, Daguenet came under the influence of Theophile
Venot, and was ruled with a rod of iron by his wife, who now exhibited a character entirely
unsuspected before. He now went to Mass, and was furious with his father-in-law,
who was ruining the family on account of Nana.

Nana. DAGUENET (MADAME). See Estelle Muffat de Beuville. DAIGREMONT, a Paris financier who was possessed
of an enormous fortune.

It was said that his fidelity was not quite reliable, and that on
one occasion at least he played his allies false and swept away the
profits.

He was approached by Saccard before the foundation of the Universal Bank, and being assured
that Eugene Rougon was to back up his brother, he agreed to become one of the directors. He supported
Saccard during the great gamble in the shares of the bank, and even on the day of the collapse
had promised to come on the market and buy so heavily as to put up the price of the shares. Having
received information through Jacoby that Gundermann was determined at any cost to break the market,
Daigremont deserted Saccard, and instead of buying, sold all the shares he had, thereby bringing
about the final collapse. L'Argent. DAIGREMONT (MADAME), wife of the preceding. She was celebrated for
her beauty and for her fine singing. L'Argent. DALICHAMP, a doctor at Raucourt, six kilometres
from Remilly. He was a man of brusque manner, but of excellent heart,
who showed much kindness to his patients.

In the middle of August, 1870, he established an ambulance at Raucourt, and after Jean Macquart, severely
wounded, had arrived at the house of Pere Fouchard, Dalichamp attended
him secretly till his recovery.

It was through him that Henriette Weiss and Jean gained their knowledge of the disasters which
were everywhere overtaking the French army. La Debacle. DAMBREVILLE, a Government official who married
in order to secure promotion through the influence of his wife. Pot-Bouille.
DAMBREVILLE (MADAME), wife of the preceding. An elderly woman with a passion
for Leon Josserand, whose appointment as Maitre des Requetes she
procured by her influence.

She promised to secure a wealthy wife for him, but delayed to do so until he insisted on a match
being arranged between him and her niece Raymonde.

Her friendly relations with him continued to subsist even after his marriage. Pot-Bouille. DAMBREVILLE
(RAYMONDE), niece of Dambreville.

See Madame Leon Josserand. DANSAERT, a head captain in the Voreux pit. He was brutal and overbearing
with the workmen, but humble in the presence of his superiors. Though it
was well known that he was the lover of La Pierronne, he was friendly
with her husband, and got information from him regarding the progress
of the strike. On the day of the accident in the pit he became mad
with fear, and leaped into one of the cages, leaving his men at the
bottom.

This action, together with the scandals
regarding him, caused the company to decide on his dismissal.

Germinal. DASTE (MADAME),
a friend of the Saccards and of Madame de Lauwerens. La Curee. DAUVERGNE,
deputy station-master for the main lines at the Gare Saint-Lazare. He
occupied with his family, Claire, Henri, and Sophie, a house belonging to
the railway company in the Impasse d'Amsterdam. La Bete Humaine. DAUVERGNE
(CLAIRE), daughter of the preceding and sister of Sophie. The two
sisters were both charming blondes, one eighteen and the other twenty,
who, amidst a constant stream of gaiety, looked after the housekeeping
with the six thousand francs earned by the two men.

The elder one would be heard
laughing, while the younger sang, and a cage full of exotic birds
rivalled one another in roulades.

La Bete Humaine.
DAUVERGNE (HENRI), a chief guard in the service of the Western Railway
Company. He was in love with Severine Roubaud, but was aware of her
liaison with Jacques Lantier.

He was injured
in the railway accident at Croix-de-Maufras, and having been removed
to a house which belonged to Severine, he was nursed by her there. In
a hallucination of illness, he believed that he heard, outside his window,
Roubaud arranging with Cabuche for the murder of Severine: his mistaken
evidence was greatly instrumental in leading to the conviction of the
two men. La Bete Humaine. DAUVERGNE (SOPHIE), the elder of the two
sisters.

La Bete Humaine.
DAVOINE, the purchaser of Chanteau's timber business at Caen. When Chanteau
became incapacitated by gout, he sold his business to Davoine for
a hundred thousand francs, of which one-half was to be paid in cash and the balance
to remain in the business. Davoine was, however, constantly launching
into speculations, and the consequence was that the profits were drained
away, and the balance sheet generally showed a loss. He ultimately
became bankrupt, and Chanteau lost all the money he had left in the business.
La Joie de Vivre.

DEBERLE (DOCTOR
HENRI), a medical man of Passy who inherited from his father a large
fortune and an excellent practice.

A chance
call to attend Jeanne Grandjean led to an intimacy with her mother,
which resulted in the fleeting love episode which forms the subject
of the novel. Deberle, deceived by the circumstances under which Helene
Grandjean prevented an assignation between his wife and M. Malignon, believed
that Helene had arranged an assignation with himself, and she found it
impossible to enlighten him without compromising his wife. The brief
liaison was terminated by the illness and death of Jeanne. Une Page
d'Amour.

DEBERLE (MADAME JULIETTE),
wife of the preceding, was the elder daughter of M. Letellier, a wealthy
silk merchant of Paris. Empty-headed and fond of gaiety, she was carried
away by the attentions of M. Malignon, an idle young man who went
everywhere in Paris society, and to whom she was foolish enough on one
occasion to grant an assignation. Madame Helene Grandjean, who was on intimate
terms with the family, warned Madame Deberle that her husband's suspicions
had been aroused, and that lady, seeing in time the folly of her action,
broke off the intrigue. Une Page d'Amour. DEBERLE (LUCIEN), the young
son of Doctor Deberle. He was a playmate of Jeanne Grandjean.

Une Page d'Amour.
DECKER (BARONNE), a friend of the Marquis de Chouard, who occasionally visited
her at Viroflay. Nana. DEJOIE, a man who was appointed by Saccard
to be attendant at the offices of the newspaper purchased in the interest
of the Universal Bank. He had a small sum of money, intended for the
dowry of his daughter, and to increase this he invested it in shares of
the bank. On the rise of the shares he gained a large sum, but, refusing
to sell, he lost everything in the final catastrophe. L'Argent. DEJOIE
(JOSEPHINE), wife of Dejoie, who first knew her when she was cook
with Madame Leveque, sister-in-law of Durieu, the brewer.

She was
afterwards with Dr. Renaudin, and then in a shop in Rue Rambuteau. The
husband and wife were never fortunate enough to get employment in
one place.

Josephine died when her daughter was fourteen
years old. L'Argent. DEJOIE (NATHALIE), daughter of the preceding.

In order
to provide a dowry for her, her father invested all his savings in
shares of the Universal Bank, losing everything after its failure.
She was a pretty girl, but absolutely heartless, and after the downfall
of the bank she ran away from home, leaving her old father in his
poverty. L'Argent. DELAHERCHE (MADAME), mother of Jules Delaherche.
Her husband's gay life rendered her unhappy, and after she became
a widow she trembled lest her son should take to the same courses
as his father; so, after marrying him to a woman who was devout and
of simple tastes, she sought to keep him in a dependent state as though
he were a mere youth.

At fifty years of age,
his wife having died, Delaherche determined to marry a young widow about
whom there had been much gossip, and did so in spite of all the remonstrances
of his mother. After that she only lived on in silent remonstrance,
spending most of her time shut up in her own room. The miseries of war
told severely on the old woman, and to these were added domestic
troubles, for she became aware of her daughter-in-law's relations
with Captain Baudoin and Edmond Lagarde.

After the occupation
of Sedan by the Prussians she devoted herself to nursing her old friend
Colonel Vineuil, who had been brought to the house severely wounded. She
remained with him till his death, shut up from the world, and refusing
to hear of the defeats daily accumulating against their unhappy country.
 We argue that this command to exterminate, did not include all the
individuals of the Canaanitish nations, but only the inhabitants of the cities, (and even those
conditionally,) for the following reasons.

I. Only the inhabitants of cities are specified,--"of the cities of these people thou shalt
save alive nothing that breatheth." The reasons for this wise discrimination were, no doubt,
(1.) Cities then, as now, were pest-houses of vice--they reeked with abominations little practiced
in the country. On this account, their influence would be far more perilous to the Israelites
than that of the country. (2.) These cities were the centres of idolatry--the residences of
the priests, with their retinues of the baser sort. There were their temples and altars, and
idols, without number. Even their buildings, streets, and public walks were so many visibilities
of idolatry. The reason assigned in the 18th verse for exterminating them, strengthens the
idea,--"that they teach you not to do after all the abominations which they have done unto
their gods." This would be a reason for exterminating all the nations and individuals around
them, as all were idolaters; but God permitted, and even commanded them, in certain cases,
to spare the inhabitants. Contact with any of them would be perilous--with the inhabitants
of the cities peculiarly, and of the Canaanitish cities preeminently so.

It will be seen from the 10th and 11th verses, that those cities which accepted the offer of
peace were to be spared. "When thou comest nigh unto a city to fight against it, then proclaim
peace unto it. And it shall be, if it make thee answer of peace and open unto thee, then it
shall be, that all the people that is found therein shall be TRIBUTARIES unto thee, and they
shall SERVE thee."--Deuteronomy xx. 10, 11. These verses contain the general rule prescribing
the method in which cities were to be summoned to surrender.

1. The offer of peace--if it was accepted, the inhabitants became tributaries--if it was rejected,
and they came out against Israel in battle, the men were to be killed, and the women and little
ones saved alive. See Deuteronomy xx. 12, 13, 14. The 15th verse restricts their lenient treatment
in saving the wives and little ones of those who fought them, to the inhabitants of the cities
afar off. The 16th verse gives directions for the disposal of the inhabitants of Canaanitish
cities, after they had taken them. Instead of sparing the women and children, they were to
save alive nothing that breathed. The common mistake has been, in taking it for granted, that
the command in the 15th verse, "Thus shalt thou do unto all the cities," &c. refers to the
whole system of directions preceding, commencing with the 10th verse, whereas it manifestly
refers only to the inflictions specified in the verses immediately preceding, viz. the 12th,
13th, and 14th, and thus make a distinction between those Canaanitish cities that fought, and
the cities afar off that fought--in one case destroying the males and females, and in the other,
the males only. The offer of peace, and the conditional preservation, were as really guarantied
to Canaanitish cities as to others. Their inhabitants were not to be exterminated unless they
came out against Israel in battle. But let us settle this question by the "law and the testimony."
Joshua xix. For it was of the Lord to harden their hearts, that they should COME OUT AGAINST
ISRAEL IN BATTLE, that he might destroy them utterly, and that they might have no favor, but
that he might destroy them, as the Lord commanded Moses." That is, if they had not come out
against Israel in battle, they would have had "favor" shown them, and would not have been "destroyed
utterly"

The great design of God seems to have been to transfer the territory of the Canaanites to the
Israelites, and along with it, absolute sovereignty in every respect; to annihilate their political
organizations, civil polity, jurisprudence, and their system of religion, with all its rights
and appendages; and to substitute therefor, a pure theocracy, administered by Jehovah, with
the Israelites as His representatives and agents. Those who resisted the execution of Jehovah's
purpose were to be killed, while those who quietly submitted to it were to be spared. All had
the choice of these alternatives, either free egress out of the land[A]; or acquiescence in
the decree, with life and residence as tributaries, under the protection of the government;
or resistance to the execution of the decree, with death.

[Footnote A: Suppose all the Canaanitish nations had abandoned their territory at the tidings
of Israel's approach, did God's command require the Israelites to chase them to the ends of
the earth, and hunt them down, until every Canaanite was destroyed? It is too preposterous
for belief, and yet it follows legitimately from that construction, which interprets the terms
"consume," "destroy," "destroy utterly," &c. to mean unconditional individual extermination.]

       *       *       *       *       *

[The preceding Inquiry is merely an outline. Whoever reads it, needs no such information. Its
original design embraced a much wider range of general topics, and subordinate heads, besides
an Inquiry into the teachings of the New Testament on the same subject. To have filled up the
outline, in conformity with the plan upon which it was sketched, would have swelled it to a
volume. Much of the foregoing has therefore been thrown into the form of a mere skeleton of
heads, or rather a series of indices, to trains of thought and classes of proof, which, however
limited or imperfect, may perhaps, afford some facilities to those who have little leisure
for minute and protracted investigation.]

No. 4.

THE

ANTI-SLAVERY EXAMINER.

THE

BIBLE AGAINST SLAVERY.

AN INQUIRY INTO THE

PATRIARCHAL AND MOSAIC SYSTEMS

ON THE SUBJECT OF

HUMAN RIGHTS.

Third Edition--Revised.

CONTENTS

    DEFINITION OF SLAVERY,

        Negative,

        Affirmative,

        Legal,

    THE MORAL LAW AGAINST SLAVERY

        "Thou shalt not steal,"

        "Thou shalt not covet,"

    MAN-STEALING--EXAMINATION OF EX. xxi. 16,

        Separation of man from brutes and things,

    IMPORT OF "BUY" AND "BOUGHT WITH MONEY,"

        Servants sold themselves,

    RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES SECURED BY LAW TO SERVANTS,

    SERVANTS WERE VOLUNTARY,

        Runaway Servants not to be delivered to their Masters,

    SERVANTS WERE PAID WAGES,

    MASTERS NOT "OWNERS,"

        Servants not subjected to the uses of property,

        Servants expressly distinguished from property,

        Examination of Gen. xii. 5.--"The souls that they had
        gotten," &c.

        Social equality of Servants and Masters,

        Condition of the Gibeonites as subjects of the Hebrew
        Commonwealth,

        Egyptian Bondage analyzed,

    OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED.

    "CURSED BE CANAAN," &c.--EXAMINATION OF GEN. ix. 25,

    "FOR HE IS HIS MONEY," &c.--EXAMINATION OF EX. xxi. 20, 21,

    EXAMINATION OF LEV. xxv. 44-46,

        "Both thy BONDMEN, &c., shall be of the heathen,"

        "They shall be your bondmen FOREVER,"

        "Ye shall take them as an INHERITANCE," &c.

    EXAMINATION OF LEV. XXV. 39, 40.--THE FREEHOLDER NOT TO "SERVE
    AS A BOND SERVANT,"

        Difference between Hired and Bought Servants,

        Bought Servants the most favored and honored class,

        Israelites and Strangers belonged to both classes,

        Israelites servants to the Strangers,

        Reasons for the release of the Israelitish Servants in
        the seventh year,

        Reasons for assigning the Strangers to a longer service,

        Reasons for calling them the Servants,

        Different kinds of service assigned to the Israelites
        and Strangers,

    REVIEW OF ALL THE CLASSES OF SERVANTS WITH THE MODIFICATIONS OF
    EACH,

        Political disabilities of the Strangers,

    EXAMINATION OF EX. xxi. 2-6.--"IF THOU BUY AN HEBREW SERVANT,"

    THE CANAANITES NOT SENTENCED TO UNCONDITIONAL EXTERMINATION,

THE BIBLE AGAINST SLAVERY.

The spirit of slavery never seeks shelter in the Bible, of its own accord. It grasps the horns
of the altar only in desperation--rushing from the terror of the avenger's arm. Like other
unclean spirits, it "hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest its deeds should be
reproved." Goaded to phrenzy in its conflicts with conscience and common sense, denied all
quarter, and hunted from every covert, it vaults over the sacred inclosure and courses up and
down the Bible, "seeking rest, and finding none." THE LAW OF LOVE, glowing on every page, flashes
around it an omnipresent anguish and despair. It shrinks from the hated light, and howls under
the consuming touch, as demons quailed before the Son of God, and shrieked, "Torment us not."
At last, it slinks away under the types of the Mosaic system, and seeks to burrow out of sight
among their shadows. Vain hope! Its asylum is its sepulchre; its city of refuge, the city of
destruction. It flies from light into the sun; from heat, into devouring fire; and from the
voice of God into the thickest of His thunders.

DEFINITION OF SLAVERY.

If we would know whether the Bible sanctions slavery, we must determine what slavery is. A
constituent element, is one thing; a relation, another; an appendage, another. Relations and
appendages presuppose other things to which they belong. Au Bonheur des Dames.

HENNEBEAU, general manager of the Montsou Mining Company, was born in the Ardennes. In his early
life he had undergone the hardships of a poor boy thrown as an orphan
on the Paris streets.

After having followed the courses of the Ecole des Mines, at the
age of twenty-four he became engineer to the Sainte-Barbe mine, and
three years later he became divisional engineer in the Pas-de-Calais,
at the Marles mines.

When there he married the daughter of the rich owner of a spinning
factory at Arras.

For fifteen years they lived in the same small provincial town, and
no event broke the monotony of existence, not even the birth of a
child.

An increasing irritation detached Madame Hennebeau, who was disdainful
of this husband who gained a small salary with such difficulty.

The misunderstandings between them became more pronounced, but with
the view of pleasing his wife Hennebeau accepted a situation in an
office in Paris.

But Paris only completed their separation, for she immediately threw herself into all the
luxurious follies of the period.

During the ten years spent there she carried on an open intrigue with a man whose desertion nearly
killed her.

It was then that her husband accepted the management of the Montsou mines, still hoping that his
wife might be changed down there in that desolate black country. When the great strike of miners
broke out he at first minimized its seriousness, thinking that it would not last a week. By his lack
of decided action he forfeited to some extent the confidence of his directors, but he regained
this by the subsequent measures taken by him for bringing the strike to an end, and ultimately
received the decoration of an officer of the Legion of Honour. His domestic life was, however,
once more embittered by the discovery of a liaison between his wife and his nephew, Paul Negrel.
Germinal.

HENNEBEAU (MADAME), wife of the preceding, was the daughter of a rich spinner at Arras. She did not
get on well with her husband, whom she despised for his small success, and after she accompanied
him to Paris she entered into a notorious liaison with a man whose subsequent desertion nearly
killed her.

For a time after their removal to Montsou she seemed more contented, but this did not last long,
and she ultimately consoled herself with her husband's nephew, Paul Negrel. She was angry at
the strikers, as they interfered with the arrival of provisions for a dinner-party which she was giving;
but she was incapable of understanding the sufferings of the miners and their families in the
hardships they were forced to undergo. Germinal.

HEQUET (CAROLINE), a well-known demi-mondaine in Paris. Her father, who was a clerk in Bordeaux,
was long since dead, and her mother, accepting the situation, looked
after Caroline's financial affairs with the strictest regularity.

She bought the estate known as La Mignotte after Nana tired of it.
Nana.

HEQUET (MADAME), mother of the preceding. She was a model of orderliness, who kept her daughter's
accounts with severe precision. She managed the whole household from some small lodgings two stories
above her daughter's, where, moreover, she had established a work-room for dressmaking and
plain sewing. Nana.

HERBELIN, a great chemist whose discoveries revolutionized that science.

Lazare Chanteau, who was for some time in his laboratory as an assistant, got from him the idea
of extracting chemicals from seaweed by a new process. La Joie de
Vivre.

HERMELINE, a student of rhetoric at the college of Plassans. He was in love with Sister Angele, and
once went the length of cutting his hands with his penknife to get
an opportunity of seeing and speaking to her while she dressed his
self-inflicted hurts.

In the end the student and the Sister ran off together. L'Oeuvre.

HIPPOLYTE, valet to Duveyrier. Pot-Bouille.

HIPPOLYTE, valet to Hennebeau, the manager of the Montsou Mining
Company. Germinal.

HOMME NOIR (L'), an apparition said to haunt the Voreux pit. It was said to take the form of
an old miner who twisted the necks of bad girls. Germinal.

HONORINE, a maid-servant with the Gregoires. She was a girl of some twenty years, who had been
taken in as a child and brought up in the house. Germinal.

HONORINE, a servant in the employment of the Badeuils. When dismissed for misconduct she became
insolent.

HORN (LEA DE), a Parisian demi-mondaine whose drawing-room was frequented by some of the old
ministers of Louis Philippe. Nana.

HORTEUR (ABBE), parish priest of Bonneville, was a thick-set man of peasant-like build whose red hair
was still unsilvered by his fifty years.

Much of his time was spent in cultivating a small plot of ground in the churchyard, which he had enclosed
as a vegetable garden. With regard to religion, he had come to be contented with the observance
of outward ceremonies, and his tolerance had degenerated into a state of indifference as to
the spiritual condition of his flock. He was on good terms with Chanteau, with whom it was
his custom to play draughts every Saturday. La Joie de Vivre.

HOTON, a sugar-refinery at Montsou. Its prosperity was greatly affected by the strike of miners.
Germinal.

HOURDEQUIN (ALEXANDRE), born 1804, was the only son of Isidore Hourdequin. He studied at the
college of Chateaudun, but made little progress, as his only interest was in farming, for which
he had an absolute passion. On the death of his father he became master of La Borderie, which he cultivated
on the latest principles of agriculture, spending large sums upon it. He married a sister of Baillehache,
the notary, who brought him a considerable sum, which also went into the land. His wife died
in a few years, leaving him with two children, a son named Leon, who to his great disappointment
became a soldier, and a daughter who died young. In spite of these misfortunes he retained all
his passion for the land, and in it he gradually sunk all his fortune, getting little from it
in return. A liaison with Jacqueline Cognet, followed, and she gradually acquired complete influence
over him. He died as the result of an accident brought about by Tron, one of his own servants,
who was also a lover of Jacqueline. La Terre.

HOURDEQUIN (MADAME), wife of the preceding. See Mademoiselle Baillehache.
La Terre.

HOURDEQUIN (ISIDORE), born 1767, was the descendant of an old peasant family of Cloyes, which
had educated and elevated itself into a middle-class position in the sixteenth century. They had
all been employed in the administration of the salt monopoly, and Isidore, who had been left
an orphan, was worth sixty thousand francs, when at twenty-six, the Revolution cost him his
post. As a speculation he bought the farm of La Borderie for a fifth of its value, but the depreciation
of real estate continued, and he was unable to resell it at the profit
of which he had dreamed.

He therefore determined to farm it himself, and about this time he married the daughter of
a neighbour, who brought him an additional hundred and twenty acres of land. He had one son,
Alexandre, and died in 1831. La Terre.

HOURDEQUIN (LEON), son of Alexandre Hourdequin. He had an intense hatred of the soil and became
a soldier, being promoted Captain after Solferino. He did not visit his home more than once
a year, and was much annoyed to discover the liaison between his father and Jacqueline Cognet.
He endeavoured to get the latter into disgrace, but the only effect was to make a complete breach
between his father and himself. La Terre.

HOURDEQUIN (MADEMOISELLE), the second child of Alexandre Hourdequin.

She was a delicate and charming girl, tenderly loved by her father. She died young, a short time after
her mother. La Terre.

HOUTELARD, a fisherman of Bonneville, whose house was washed away after the destruction by the
sea of the barricade erected by Lazare Chanteau. La Joie de Vivre.

HUBERT, a chasuble-maker who lived in a house immediately adjoining the cathedral of Beaumont.
"For four hundred years the line of Huberts, embroiderers from father to son, had lived in this
house." At twenty years of age he fell in love with a young girl of sixteen, Hubertine, and
as her mother refused to give her consent to their union they ran away and were married. On the
morning after Christmas, 1860, he found the child Angelique lying in a fainting condition in the
snow outside the cathedral door. Having taken her into his house, he and his wife soon became
attached to her, and as they had no children, ultimately adopted
her as their daughter. Le Reve.

HUBERTINE,
wife of the preceding. At the age of sixteen she fell in love with Hubert, the chasuble-maker,
and as her mother, widow of a magistrate, would not give her consent, they ran away and were
married. A year later she went to the deathbed of her mother, who, however, disinherited her
and gave her her curse. "So affected was she by the terrible scene that her infant, born soon after,
died." The Huberts had no other children, and after twenty-four years they still mourned the little
one they had lost. She warmly approved of the adoption by her husband and herself of the foundling
child Angelique, whom she treated with the greatest kindness. From the bitterness of her own
experience she had a horror of disobedience to parents, and when she found that the consent
of Monseigneur d'Hautecoeur could not be obtained to a marriage between his son Felicien and
Angelique, she did all she could to sever the lovers. In this she was successful for a time,
until the illness of Angelique, and her miraculous recovery, induced the Bishop to give his consent.
Le Reve.

HUE (M.) a retired Government official, who was a sincere lover of art. He was unfortunately not rich
enough to be always buying pictures, and could only bewail the blindness
of the public which allowed a genius to die of starvation; for he
himself, convinced, had selected Claude Lantier's crudest works, which
he hung by the side of his Delacroix, predicting an equal fortune
for them.

L'Oeuvre.

HUGON (MADAME), mother of Philippe and Georges Hugon. She was the widow of a notary, and lived
quietly at Fondettes, an old family property near Orleans, but had retained a house in Paris in
Rue de Richelieu. She had been an old friend of the Marquise de Chouard, and was on intimate
terms with her daughter, the Comtesse Sabine. A woman of high principles, she believed that
one should overlook much in others in order that something might
be pardoned in oneself.

In this she contrasted strongly with her old friend the Marquis de Chouard, who professed the most
rigorous virtue while he secretly lived a shameful life. She was, however, unable to bear with
equanimity the eccentricities of Nana, her neighbour in the country, who led Philippe Hugon into
dishonour, and his brother Georges to suicide. Nana.

HUGON (GEORGES), the younger son of Madame Hugon. At seventeen years of age he became infatuated
with Nana, and a liaison with her followed. His mother, having discovered the state of affairs,
interfered, and kept him at Fondettes for some months after Nana had returned to Paris, but he
ultimately followed her there. Though he was not affected by the knowledge that Nana had other
lovers, he was driven to frenzy when he learned that his brother Philippe had become one of the
number. He implored Nana to marry him, and when she refused to take his offer seriously he
plunged a pair of her scissors into his breast. The injury was not immediately fatal, but he
died a few months afterwards; some said as the result of the wound reopening, while others
spoke of a second and successful attempt at suicide. Nana.

HUGON (PHILIPPE), the elder son of Madame Hugon. A tall, handsome youth, he quickly attained
the rank of lieutenant in the army, and was stationed first in the garrison at Bourges, and afterwards
at Vincennes.

His mother imprudently sent him to endeavour to release Georges from the toils of Nana, with
the result that he was himself ensnared. He had little money of his own, and, as the demands
of Nana were unceasing, he began to take small sums from the regimental funds, of which he
was treasurer.

The thefts went on for a considerable time, and when discovery was made they amounted to twelve thousand
francs. Philippe was arrested, and when he was released from prison some months afterwards, dishonoured
for ever, he was only in time to join his mother at the death-bed of her other son, who was
also a victim to Nana's unhappy influence. Nana.

HUGUENIN, held a sinecure worth six thousand francs at the Ministry of the Interior. When he died
Eugene Rougon, the Minister, gave the post to Leon Bejuin. Son Excellence
Eugene Rougon.

HUPEL DE LA NOUE (M.), prefet of the district for which M. Mareuil was member. He arranged the tableaux
vivants at the great party given by Aristide Saccard. La Curee.

HURET, a member of the Chamber of Deputies who obtained his election through the influence of
Eugene Rougon. His very existence depended on the favour of the Minister of State, towards
whom he conducted himself as a sort of general servant. "By following this calling for a couple
of years he had, thanks to bribes and pickings, prudently realized, been able to increase his
estates." Having ascertained that Rougon would not oppose the foundation of the Universal Bank,
Huret became a director; later on, when the shares had risen to their highest point, he sold
out in the knowledge that Rougon had decided to abandon his brother and that a catastrophe would be
inevitable. L'Argent.

HUTIN, a salesman in the silk department of "The Ladies'Paradise." "He had managed after eighteen
months'service to become one of the principal salesmen, thanks to a natural flexibility of
character, a continual flow of caressing flattery under which was concealed a furious rage for
business." Having conspired against Robineau, the "second hand" in his department, he succeeded
him, only to be conspired against in turn by his own subordinates.

When Denise Baudu first came to "The Ladies'Paradise" Hutin showed her some kindness, for which
she was grateful, but ultimately he made statements about her which were entirely without foundation.
Au Bonheur des Dames.

HUTIN (MADAME), a woman who lived in the vicinity of the Halles Centrales, and was spied on by
Mademoiselle Saget, whose penetrating eyes allowed none of her neighbours to escape notice.
Le Ventre de Paris. Nana.

J JABOUILLE, an herbalist, whose shop was situated in Rue de Cherche-Midi.

He was a widower, and married for the second time a woman named Mathilde. His shop was at one time
prosperous, but business fell away until what was left was only that of an equivocal character.
He died of syncope induced by phthisis. L'Oeuvre. JABOUILLE (MADAME MATHILDE), wife of the preceding.
She was a woman of about thirty, plain-looking, and exceedingly thin.

From the time of her marriage to Jabouille, his business began to decrease, and this, it would appear,
was due to her reputation, which alarmed the more respectable customers. Her liaisons were numerous,
and included Mahoudeau, Chaine, and Jory, but after the death of her husband she married the last named,
settling down into respectability and ruling him with a rod of iron. L'Oeuvre. JACOBY, a Jew
from Bordeaux, between whom and Mazaud there was keen rivalry. "Though of great experience and
shrewdness, he was sorely handicapped by his passion for speculation,
and in spite of considerable profits always seemed on the eve of a
catastrophe.

His money melted away on settling days." He acted as broker for Daigremont, and also for Gundermann.
The great gamble in the shares of the Universal Bank resolved itself into a duel between Jacoby and
Mazaud, the one selling on behalf of Gundermann, and the other buying on behalf of Saccard;
and the final catastrophe was hastened by Jacoby warning Daigremont of Gundermann's determination
to crush out the bank. L'Argent. JALAGUIER (MADAME), a protegee of Madame Correur, who induced
Eugene Rougon, the Minister, to increase the old lady's pension considerably. Son Excellence Eugene
Rougon. JALAGUIER FILS, son of the preceding. Madame Correur took an interest in him, and asked
Eugene Rougon to secure a scholarship for him.

Son Excellence Eugene Rougon. JANTROU, an ex-professor of the University of Bordeaux, who in consequence
of some misconduct was obliged to leave for Paris, without caste
or position.

At the age of twenty-eight, he landed at the Bourse, where for ten years he dragged out existence as
a remisier or broker's tout.

At the time of the foundation of the Universal Bank he suggested to Saccard the purchase of a newspaper to
be employed in the interest of the company. The purchase was carried out, and Jantrou was appointed
editor. Subsequently other papers were acquired, which he manipulated so as to keep the bank
continually before the public. He gave information to Baroness Sandorff which she repeated to Gundermann,
who was induced thereby to continue his attack on the bank. L'Argent. JEANBERNAT,
the caretaker of the deserted estate of Paradou in Provence.

He lived by himself with his niece Albine in an old house on the border of the demesne. In an attic
he had found a large number of books which had been saved from a fire in the old mansion, and
these he studied for twenty years, imbibing from them the rationalistic
theories of the eighteenth century.

He had no respect for religion, and particularly disliked Brother Archangias, who insulted both him
and his niece. JENARD, a partner in the firm of Cornille and Jenard, which developed in the eighteenth
century the mineral concession of Joiselle. Germinal. JESUS CHRIST, the sobriquet of Hyacinthe
Fouan. La Terre. JEUMONT (M. AND MADAME), were well known in society during the Second Empire.
The Emperor admired Madame Jeumont, and her husband was decorated by him. L'Argent. JOBELIN
(AUGUSTE), son
of Colonel Jobelin. Contrary to regulations, Eugene Rougon took him into
the office of the Minister of the Interior without the necessary
bachelor's degree.

Son Excellence
Eugene Rougon.

JOBELIN (COLONEL),
a friend of Eugene Rougon, through whose aid he hoped to secure a
nomination as commander of the Legion of Honour, and an appointment for
his son.

He was a cousin of M. Bouchard. After Rougon's return
to office he received the appointment as commander. Son Excellence
Eugene Rougon. JOIRE (ABBE), Cure of Montsou. He pretended not to interest
himself in anything, so as not to vex either the workers or the masters.

During the strike he took his walks at night, to prevent
himself from being compromised by the miners. He obtained promotion,
and was replaced by Abbe Ranvier. Germinal. JONCQUIER, a lover of Rose Mignon,
who deserted her for a time in favour of Laure. Nana. JONCQUOY (MADAME DU),
an old friend of the Muffats.

Years ago she had met Bismarck, who struck
her as stupid; she was unable to understand his later success. Nana. JORDAN
(PAUL), a journalist, whose father, a Marseilles banker, had committed suicide
in consequence of some disastrous speculations. He married a daughter
of M. Maugendre, to whom he had been betrothed in more prosperous
days.

His wife brought him
no dowry, as her parents were against the marriage on the ground
of Jordan's occupation and want of means.

Having made
the acquaintance of Saccard, he received an appointment on the staff of the
newspaper purchased to support the policy of the Universal Bank. He did not
speculate, however, and remained in comparative poverty, until the
success of a novel which he had written put him in more comfortable
circumstances, and even enabled him to give assistance to his wife's
parents after they were ruined by the failure of the bank.

L'Argent. JORDAN (MADAME MARCELLE), wife of the preceding. She
was the only child of M. Maugendre, who was ruined by the failure of
the Universal Bank. L'Argent. JORY (EDOUARD), was the son of a magistrate
of Plassans, whom he drove crazy by his profligate conduct. In the end
he ran off with a music-hall singer under the pretext of going to
Paris to follow the literary profession. Notwithstanding the fact that
his profligacy went to even greater lengths in the city, he was successful
in journalism, and soon earned between seven and eight thousand francs
a year as a leader-writer and art critic. His first success was gained
in a series of articles in a little newspaper called Le Tambour, in
which he fell foul of the accepted canons of art, and hailed Claude
Lantier and his companions as the founders of a new school.

Later he claimed to have
made Fagerolles by his articles, in the same manner as he formerly
took credit for making Lantier.

He gradually dropped
his old friends, however, finding that the public only laughed at their
productions, and in excuse pleaded that he had not a journal in which
he could support their cause; but when, still later, he became director
of a great Art review, he preserved the same silence. After innumerable
love affairs, he ended by marrying Mathilde Jabouille. L'Oeuvre. JORY
(MADAME), wife of the preceding. See Mathilde Jabouille. JOSEPH,
a butler in the employment of Nana at La Mignotte. Nana. JOSEPH, an
old soldier who secured a situation in "The Ladies'Paradise" through
the influence of Lhomme, whose foster brother he was. He married Mlle. de
Fontenailles, a shop-girl in the establishment. Au Bonheur des Dames. JOSEPH
(MADAME), the concierge of the house on Quay Bourbon where Claude
Lantier lived. L'Oeuvre. JOSSE (MADEMOISELLE) kept a little school for
young children in Rue Polonceau. Anna Coupeau was her pupil, and made herself
such a nuisance that twice Mademoiselle Josse sent her away, taking
her back each time in order not to lose the small fees. Knowingly to treat them
otherwise is sin; and the degree of violence done to their nature, religions, and value, measures
its guilt. When things are sundered which God has indissolubly joined, or confounded in one,
which he has separated by infinite extremes; when sacred and eternal distinctions, which he
has garnished with glory, are derided and set at nought, then, if ever, sin reddens to its
"scarlet dye." The sin specified in the passage, is that of doing violence to the nature of
a man--to his intrinsic value as a rational being, and blotting out the exalted distinction
stamped upon him by his Maker. In the verse preceding, and in that which follows, the same
principle is laid down. Verse 15, "He that smiteth his father or his mother shall surely be
put to death." V. 17, "He that curseth his father or his mother, shall surely be put to death."
If a Jew smote his neighbor, the law merely smote him in return; but if the blow was given
to a parent, it struck the smiter dead. The parental relation is the centre of human society.
God guards it with peculiar care. To violate that, is to violate all. Whoever trampled on that,
showed that no relation had any sacredness in his eyes--that he was unfit to move among human
relations who had violated one so sacred and tender. Therefore, the Mosaic law uplifted his
bleeding corpse, and brandished the ghastly terror around the parental relation to guard it
from impious inroads.

Why such a difference in penalties, for the same act? Answer. (1.) The relation violated was
obvious--the distinction between parents and others manifest, dictated by natural affection--a
law of the constitution. (2.) The act was violence to nature--a suicide on constitutional susceptibilities.
(3.) The parental relation then, as now, was the focal point of the social system, and required
powerful safeguards. "Honor thy father and thy mother," stands at the head of those commands
which prescribe the duties of man to man; and, throughout the Bible, the parental state is
God's favorite illustration of his own relations to the whole human family. In this case death
was to be inflicted not for smiting a man, but a parent--a distinction cherished by God, and
around which, He threw up a bulwark of defence. In the next verse, "He that stealeth a man,"
&c., the SAME PRINCIPLE is wrought out in still stronger relief. The crime to be punished with
death was not the taking of property from its owner, but the doing violence to an immortal
nature, blotting out a sacred distinction, making MEN "chattels." The incessant pains taken
in the Old Testament to separate human beings from brutes and things, shows God's regard for
his own distinction.

"In the beginning" it was uttered in heaven, and proclaimed to the universe as it rose into
being. Creation was arrayed at the instant of its birth, to do it homage. It paused in adoration
while God ushered forth its crowning work. Why that dread pause and that creating arm held
back in mid career and that high conference in the godhead? Then while every living thing,
with land, and sea, and firmament, and marshalled worlds, waited to swell the shout of morning
stars--then "GOD CREATED MAN IN HIS OWN IMAGE; IN THE IMAGE OF GOD CREATED HE HIM." This solves
the problem, IN THE IMAGE OF GOD, CREATED HE HIM. Well might the sons of God shout, "Amen,
alleluia"--For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with
glory and honor. Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands; thou hast put
all things under his feet." Ps. viii. 5, 6. The repetition of this distinction is frequent
and solemn. In Gen. i. 26-28, it is repeated in various forms. In Gen. v. 1, we find it again,
"IN THE LIKENESS OF GOD MADE HE MAN." In Gen. ix. 6, again. After giving license to shed the
blood of "every moving thing that liveth," it is added, "Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man
shall his blood be shed, for IN THE IMAGE OF GOD MADE HE MAN." As though it had been said,
"All these creatures are your property, designed for your use--they have the likeness of earth,
they perish with the using, and their spirits go downward; but this other being, MAN, has my
own likeness: "IN THE IMAGE OF GOD made I man;" "an intelligent, moral, immortal agent, invited
to all that I can give and he can be." So in Lev. xxiv. 17, 18, 21, "He that killeth any MAN
shall surely be put to death; and he that killeth a beast shall make it good, beast for beast;
and he that killeth a man shall be put to death." So in Ps. viii. 5, 6, what an enumeration
of particulars, each separating infinitely MEN from brutes and things! (1.) "Thou hast made
him a little lower than the angels." Slavery drags him down among brutes. (2.) "And hast crowned
him with glory and honor." Slavery tears off his crown, and puts on a yoke. (3.) "Thou madest
him to have dominion OVER the works of thy hands." Slavery breaks the sceptre, and casts him
down among those works--yea beneath them. (4.) "Thou hast put all things under his feet." Slavery
puts HIM under the feet of an "owner." Who, but an impious scorner, dares thus strive with
his Maker, and mutilate HIS IMAGE, and blaspheme the Holy One, who saith, "Inasmuch as ye did
it unto one of the least of these, ye did it unto ME."

In further presenting this inquiry, the Patriarchal and Mosaic systems will be considered together,
as each reflects light upon the other, and as many regulations of the latter are mere legal
forms of Divine institutions previously existing. As a system, the latter alone is of Divine
authority. Whatever were the usages of the patriarchs, God has not made them our exemplars[A].

[Footnote A: Those who insist that the patriarchs held slaves, and sit with such delight under
their shadow, hymning the praises of "those good old patriarchs and slaveholders," might at
small cost greatly augment their numbers. A single stanza celebrating patriarchal concubinage,
winding off with a chorus in honor of patriarchal drunkenness, would be a trumpet call, summoning
from bush and brake, highway and hedge, and sheltering fence, a brotherhood of kindred affinities,
each claiming Abraham or Noah as his patron saint, and shouting, "My name is legion." What
a myriad choir and thunderous song.]

Before entering upon an analysis of the condition of servants under these two states of society,
we will consider the import of certain terms which describe the mode of procuring them.

IMPORT OF "BUY," AND "BOUGHT WITH MONEY."

As the Israelites were commanded to "buy" their servants, and as Abraham had servants "bought
with money," it is argued that servants were articles of property. The sole ground for this
belief is the terms themselves. How much might be saved, if in discussion, the thing to be
proved were always assumed. To beg the question in debate, would be vast economy of midnight
oil! and a great forestaller of wrinkles and grey hairs! Instead of protracted investigation
into Scripture usage, with painful collating of passages, to find the meaning of terms, let
every man interpret the oldest book in the world by the usages of his own time and place, and
the work is done. And then instead of one revelation, they might be multiplied as the drops
of the morning, and every man have an infallible clue to the mind of the Spirit, if he only
understood the dialect of his own neighborhood! What a Babel-jargon it would make of the Bible
to take it for granted that the sense in which words are now used is the inspired sense, David
says, "I prevented the dawning of the morning, and cried." What, stop the earth in its revolution!
Two hundred years ago, prevent was used in its strict Latin sense to come before, or anticipate.
It is always used in this sense in the Old and New Testaments. David's expression, in the English
of the nineteenth century, would be "Before the dawning of the morning I cried." In almost
every chapter of the Bible, words are used in a sense now nearly or quite obsolete, and sometimes
in a sense totally opposite to their present meaning. A few examples follow: "I purposed to
come to you, but was let (hindered) hitherto." "And the four beasts (living ones) fell down
and worshipped God,"--"Whosoever shall offend (cause to sin) one of these little ones,"--"Go
out into the highways and compel (urge) them to come in,"--"Only let your conversation (habitual
conduct) be as becometh the Gospel,"--"They that seek me early (earnestly) shall find me,"--"So
when tribulation or persecution ariseth by-and-by (immediately) they are offended." Nothing
is more mutable than language. Words, like bodies, are always throwing off some particles and
absorbing others. So long as they are mere representatives, elected by the whims of universal
suffrage, their meaning will be a perfect volatile, and to cork it up for the next century
is an employment sufficiently silly (to speak within bounds) for a modern Bible Dictionary
maker. There never was a shallower conceit than that of establishing the sense attached to
a word centuries ago, by showing what it means now. Pity that fashionable mantuamakers were
not a little quicker at taking hints from some Doctors of Divinity. How easily they might save
their pious customers all qualms of conscience about the weekly shiftings of fashion, by proving
that the last importation of Parisian indecency now flaunting on promenade, was the very style
of dress in which the pious Sarah kneaded cakes for the angels, and the modest Rebecca drew
water for the camels of Abraham's servants. Since such fashions are rife in Broadway now, they
must have been in Canaan and Padanaram four thousand years ago!

The inference that the word buy, used to describe the procuring of servants, means procuring
them as chattels, seems based upon the fallacy, that whatever costs money is money; that whatever
or whoever you pay money for, is an article of property, and the fact of your paying for it
proves it property. The children of Israel were required to purchase their first-born from
under the obligations of the priesthood, Num. xviii. 15, 16; Ex. xiii. 13; xxxiv. 20. This
custom still exists among the Jews, and the word buy is still used to describe the transaction.
Does this prove that their first-born were, or are, held as property? They were bought as really
as were servants. (2.) The Israelites were required to pay money for their own souls. This
is called sometimes a ransom, sometimes an atonement. Were their souls therefore marketable
commodities? (3.) Bible saints bought their wives. Boaz bought Ruth. Ruth iv. 10. Hosea bought
his wife. "So I bought her to me for fifteen pieces of silver, and for an homer of barley,
and an half homer of barley." Hosea iii. 2. Jacob bought his wives Rachael and Leah, and not
having money, paid for them in labor--seven years a piece. Gen. xxix. 15-29. Moses probably
bought his wife in the same way, and paid for her by his labor, as the servant of her father.
Exod. ii. 21. Shechem, when negotiating with Jacob and his sons for Dinah, says, "Ask me never
so much dowry and gift, and I will give according as ye shall say unto me." Gen. xxxiv. 11,
12. David purchased Michal, and Othniel, Achsah, by performing perilous services for their
fathers. 1 Sam. xviii. 25-27; Judg. i. 12, 13. That the purchase of wives, either with money
or by service, was the general practice, is plain from such passages as Ex. xxii. 17, and 1
Sam. xviii. 25. Among the modern Jews this usage exists, though now a mere form, there being
no real purchase. Yet among their marriage ceremonies, is one called "marrying by the penny."
The coincidences in the methods of procuring wives and servants, in the terms employed in describing
the transactions, and in the prices paid for each, are worthy of notice. The highest price
of wives (virgins) and servants was the same. Comp. Deut. xxii. 28, 29, and Ex. xxii. 17, with
Lev. xxvii. 2-8. The medium price of wives and servants was the same. Comp. Hos. iii. 2, with
Ex. xxi. 32. Hosea seems to have paid one half in money and the other half in grain. Further,
the Israelitish female bought servants were wives, their husbands and masters being the same
persons. Ex. xxi. 8, Judg. xix. 3, 27. If buying servants proves them property, buying wives
proves them property. Why not contend that the wives of the ancient fathers of the faithful
were their "chattels," and used as ready change at a pinch; and thence deduce the rights of
modern husbands? Alas! Patriarchs and prophets are followed afar off! When will pious husbands
live up to their Bible privileges, and become partakers with Old Testament worthies in the
blessedness of a husband's rightful immunities! Refusing so to do, is questioning the morality
of those "good old patriarchs and slaveholders, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob."

This use of the word buy, is not peculiar to the Hebrew. In the Syriac, the common expression
for "the espoused," is "the bought." Even so late as the 16th century, the common record of
marriages in the old German Chronicles was, "A BOUGHT B."

The word translated buy, is, like other words, modified by the nature of the subject to which
it is applied. Eve said, "I have gotten (bought) a man of the Lord." She named him Cain, that
is bought. "He that heareth reproof, getteth (buyeth) understanding," Prov. xv. 32. So in Isa.
xi. 11. "The Lord shall set his hand again to recover (to buy) the remnant of his people."
So Ps. lxxviii. 54. "He brought them to this mountain which his right hand had purchased,"
(gotten.) Jer. xiii. 4. "Take the girdle that thou hast got" (bought.) Neh. v. 8. "We of our
ability have redeemed (bought) our brethren that were sold to the heathen." Here "bought" is
not applied to persons reduced to servitude, but to those taken out of it. Prov. 8. 22. "The
Lord possessed (bought) me in the beginning of his way." Prov. xix. 8. "He that getteth (buyeth)
wisdom loveth his own soul." Finally, to buy is a secondary meaning of the Hebrew word Kana.

Even at this day the word buy is used to describe the procuring of servants, where slavery
is abolished. In the British West Indies, where slaves became apprentices in 1834, they are
still "bought." This is the current word in West India newspapers. Ten years since servants
were "bought" in New-York, as really as in Virginia, yet the different senses in which the
word was used in the two states, put no man in a quandary. Under the system of legal indenture
in Illinois, servants now are "bought."[A] Until recently immigrants to this country were "bought"
in great numbers. By voluntary contract they engaged to work a given time to pay for their
passage. This class of persons called "redemptioners," consisted at one time of thousands.
Multitudes are "bought" out of slavery by themselves or others. Under the same roof with the
writer is a "servant bought with money." A few weeks since, she was a slave; when "bought"
she was a slave no longer. Alas! for our leading politicians if "buying" men makes them "chattels."
The Whigs say that Benton and Rives are "bought" by the administration; and the other party,
that Clay and Webster are "bought" by the Bank. The histories of the revolution tell us that
Benedict Arnold was "bought" by British gold. When a northern clergyman marries a rich southern
widow, country gossip thus hits off the indecency, "The cotton bags bought him." Sir Robert
Walpole said, "Every man has his price, and whoever will pay it, can buy him," and John Randolph
said, "The northern delegation is in the market, give me money enough, and I can buy them;"
both meant just what they said. The temperance publications tell us that candidates for office
buy men with whiskey; and the oracles of street tattle that the court, district attorney, and
jury, in the late trial of Robinson were bought, yet we have no floating visions of "chattels
personal," man auctions, or coffles.

[Footnote A: The following statute is now in force in the free state of Illinois--No negro,
mulatto, or Indian shall at any time purchase any servant other than of their own complexion:
and if any of the persons aforesaid shall presume to purchase a white servant, such servant
shall immediately become free, and shall be so held, deemed and taken.]

The transaction between Joseph and the Egyptians gives a clue to the use of "buy" and "bought
with money." Gen, xlvii. 18-26. The Egyptians proposed to Joseph to become servants. When the
bargain was closed, Joseph said, "Behold I have bought you this day," and yet it is plain that
neither party regarded the persons bought as articles of property, but merely as bound to labor
on certain conditions, to pay for their support during the famine. The idea attached by both
parties to "buy us," and "behold I have bought you," was merely that of service voluntarily
offered, and secured by contract, in return for value received, and not at all that the Egyptians
were bereft of their personal ownership, and made articles of property. And this buying of
services (in this case it was but one-fifth part) is called in Scripture usage, buying the
persons. This case claims special notice, as it is the only one where the whole transaction
of buying servants is detailed--the preliminaries, the process, the mutual acquiescence, and
the permanent relation resulting therefrom. In all other instances, the mere fact is stated
without particulars. For the first time Lantier's blood lust was not aroused; the knowledge that
this woman had killed seemed to constitute her a being apart and sacred. After the murder of
Grandmorin a gradual disintegration of Roubaud's character set in, and he became in time a confirmed
gambler. His relations with his wife were ultimately so strained that she induced Lantier to
promise to murder him, in order that they might fly together to America with the proceeds of a small
legacy she had received from Grandmorin. The arrangements were made, but at the last moment
Lantier's frenzy overtook him, and it was Severine who was struck
down by the knife destined for her husband.

Lantier escaped without suspicion; but Roubaud, who was found on the scene of the crime under
circumstances considered compromising, was tried, and along with a companion equally innocent,
was sentenced to penal servitude for life. But Nemesis was not distant; Jacques had aroused the
jealous fury of his fireman, Pecqueux, who, one night in 1870, attacked him as they were driving
a train loaded with soldiers bound for the war. A fierce struggle followed, and in the end
the two men fell from the engine and were cut in pieces beneath the wheels of the train, which,
no longer under control, rushed on into the darkness with its living
freight.

Germinal.

A novel dealing with the labour question in its special relation to coal-mining. The scene of
the book is laid in the north of France at a time preceding and during a great strike; the
hero is Etienne Lantier (La Fortune des Rougon and L'Assommoir). In a moment of passion Lantier
had struck one of his superiors, and having been dismissed from his employment as an engineer,
found it difficult to get work, till, after drifting from place to place, he eventually became a
coal-miner. The hardships of the life and its miserable remuneration impressed him deeply, and he
began to indoctrinate his comrades with a spirit of revolt.

His influence grew, and he became the acknowledged leader of the strike which followed. The result
was disastrous.

After weeks of misery from cold and hunger the infuriated workmen attempted to destroy one of
the pits, and were fired upon by soldiers sent to guard it. Many were killed, and the survivors,
with their spirits crushed, returned to work. But worse was yet to come. Souvarine, an Anarchist,
disgusted with the ineffectual struggle, brought about an inundation of the pit, whereby many of
his comrades were entombed.

Among them was Lantier, who was, however, eventually rescued.

As a study of the ever-lasting struggle between capital and labour
the work has no rival in fiction; the miseries and degradation of
the mining class, their tardy revolt against their employers, and
their sufferings from hunger during its futile course, these are the
theme, and the result is a picture of gloom, horrible and without
relief.

Nana.

A novel dealing largely with theatrical life in Paris. Nana, the daughter of Coupeau and Gervaise
Macquart his wife (L'Assommoir), has been given a part in a play
produced at the Theatre des Varietes, and though she can neither sing
nor act, achieves by the sheer force of her beauty an overwhelming
success.

All Paris is at her feet, and she selects her lovers from among the
wealthiest and best born.

But her extravagance knows no bounds, and ruin invariably overtakes
those who yield to her fascination.

After squandering vast sums she goes to the East, and stories spread that she had captivated
a viceroy and gained a great fortune in Russia.

Her return to Paris is speedily followed by her death from small-pox. In this novel the life of
the courtesan class is dealt with by Zola with unhesitating frankness;
there are many vivid studies of theatrical manners; and the racecourse
also comes within its scope.

The work was intended to lay bare the canker which was eating into the social life of the Second
Empire and ultimately led to the debacle of 1870.

La Terre.

This is a novel which treats of the conditions of agricultural life
in France before the war with Prussia, and the subsequent downfall
of the Second Empire.

It is, in some respects, the most powerful of all Zola's novels, but in dealing with the subject
he unfortunately thought it necessary to introduce incidents and
expressions which, from their nature, must always render it impossible
to submit the book in its entirety to the general English reader.

Its connection with the Rougon-Macquart series is somewhat slight. Jean Macquart, son of Antoine
Macquart and brother of Gervaise (La Fortune des Rougon), having served his time in the Army,
came to the plain of La Beauce, and became an agricultural labourer on the farm of La Borderie, which
belonged to Alexandre Hourdequin. He fell in love with Lise Mouche, who, however, married Buteau,
and Macquart subsequently married her sister Francoise. Constant quarrels now arose between the
two sisters as to the division of their father's property, and in the end Francoise was murdered
by her sister. Macquart, tired of the struggle, decided to rejoin the army, which he did immediately
after the outbreak of war.

The interest of the book is, however, largely connected with the history
of the Fouans, a family of peasants, the senior member of which, having
grown old, divided his land among his three children.

The intense and brutish rapacity of these peasants, their utter lack of any feeling of morality
or duty, their perfect selfishness, not stopping short of parricide, form a picture of horror
unequalled in fiction.

It is only to be regretted that the author, in leaving nothing to the imagination, has produced
a work suitable only for the serious student of sociology.

La Debacle.

In the earlier volumes of the Rougon-Macquart series Zola had dealt with every phase of life under
the Second Empire, and in this novel he tells the story of that terrific land-slide which overwhelmed
the regime. It is a story of war, grim and terrible; of a struggle to the death between two great
nations. In it the author has put much of his finest work, and the result is one of the masterpieces
of literature. After the terrible death of his wife, as told in La Terre, Jean enlisted for the
second time in the army, and went through the campaign up to the battle of Sedan. After the capitulation
he was made prisoner, and in escaping was wounded. When he returned to active service he took
part in crushing the excesses of the Commune in Paris, and by a strange
chance it was his hand that killed his dearest friend, Maurice Levasseur,
who had joined the Communist ranks.

La Debacle has been described as "a prose epic of modern war," and vast though the subject be,
it is treated in a manner that is powerful, painful, and pathetic.

In the preface to the English translation (The Downfall.

London: Chatto& Windus) Mr. E. A. Vizetelly quotes from an interview with Zola regarding his
aim in writing the work.

A novel, he says, "contains, or may be made to contain, everything;
and it is because that is my creed that I am a novelist.

I have, to my thinking, certain contributions to make to the thought of the world on certain
subjects, and I have chosen the novel as the best way of communicating these contributions to
the world. Thus La Debacle, in the form of a very precise and accurate relation of a series of
historical facts-- in other words, in the form of a realistic historical novel-- is a document
on the psychology of France in 1870. This will explain the enormous number of characters which
figure in the book. Each character represents one etat d'ame psychologique of the France of
the day.

If my work be well done, the reader will be able to understand what was in men's minds and
what was the bent of men's minds-- what they thought and how they
thought at that period."

Le Docteur Pascal.

In this, the concluding novel of the Rougon-Macquart series, Zola gathers together the threads
of the preceding volumes and makes a vigorous defence of his theories of heredity. The story
in the book is both simple and sad. Doctor Pascal Rougon, a medical man at Plassans and a distinguished
student of heredity, had brought up his niece Clotilde (daughter of Aristide Rougon alias Saccard)
from childhood.

Years afterwards they found that they passionately loved one another, but they did not marry,
as Pascal, who had lost money, thought that by doing so she would
sacrifice her interests.

(In this connection it is right to mention that marriage between
an uncle and a niece is legal in France, and is not uncommon.) With
fine self-sacrifice Pascal persuaded Clotilde to go to Paris to live
with her brother who was wealthy and wanted her to nurse him.

Soon after her departure Pascal showed symptoms of a fatal affection
of the heart, and after some weeks of great suffering telegraphed
for Clotilde to come back.

One hour before her return he died. His mother, Madame Felicite Rougon, who feared that his researches
on heredity might bring scandal on the family, burned all his papers, and in one hour destroyed the
work of a lifetime. A child was born to Clotilde seven months after the death of Doctor Pascal; a child
which he intensely desired, in the hope that through it might come the regeneration and rejuvenation
of his race.

Zola, in an interview quoted by Mr. E. A. Vizetelly in the preface to his translation of Le
Docteur Pascal (London: Chatto& Windus), states that in this book he has been able to defend
himself against all the accusations which have been brought against him. "Pascal's works on
the members of his family," says Zola, "is, in small, what I have attempted to do on humanity,
to show all so that all may be cured. It is not a book which, like La Debacle, will stir the
passions of the mob. It is a scientific work, the logical deduction and conclusion of all my
preceding novels, and at the same time it is my speech in defence of all that I have done before
the court of public opinion."

THE ZOLA DICTIONARY A ADELE, the girl for whom Auguste Lantier deserted
Gervaise Macquart.

They lived together for seven years, a life of constant bickerings
and quarrels, accompanied, not infrequently, by blows, until the connection
was ended by Adele running away.

Her sister was Virginie, with whom Gervaise fought in the public washing-house on the day of her desertion
by Lantier. L'Assommoir. ADELE, maid-servant to the Josserands, and
one of Hector Trublot's friends. Pot-Bouille. ADELE, an assistant in the
shop of Quenu, the pork-butcher.

It was she who took charge of the shop on the sudden death of her master. And subsequently sent
Pauline Quenu to Madame Chanteau.

La Joie de Vivre. ADOLPHE, an artillery driver in the same battery
as Honore Fouchard.

In accordance with a rule of the French artillery, under which a driver and a gunner are coupled,
he messed with Louis, the gunner, whom, however, he was inclined to treat
as a servant.

At the battle of Sedan, before the Calvary d'Illy, where the French
were almost exterminated by the Prussian artillery, Adolphe fell,
killed by a wound in the chest; in a last convulsion he clasped in
his arms Louis, who had fallen at the same moment, killed by the same
shot.

La Debacle. ALBINE, niece of Jeanbernat, keeper of the Paradou, a neglected demesne in Provence. Her
father had ruined himself and committed suicide when she was nine years old, and she then
came to live with her uncle. She grew up in that vast garden of flowers, herself its fairest,
almost in ignorance of the world outside, and when Abbe Mouret came to the Paradou forgetful of his past,
she loved him unconsciously from the first. As she nursed him towards health, and his mind began
again to grow from that fresh starting-point to which it had been
thrown back, there developed an idyll as beautiful and as innocent
as that which had its place in another and an earlier garden.

The awakening of Abbe Mouret to the recollections of his priesthood ended the romance, for the
call of his training was too strong for his love. One effort Albine
made to bring him back, and it was successful in so much that one
day he returned to the Paradou.

Again there followed the struggle between the flesh and the Church, and again the Church prevailed.
Broken-hearted, Albine passed for the last time through her loved garden, gathering as she went
vast heaps of flowers. More and more she gathered, till her room was nearly full; then, closing the door
and windows, she lay down amongst the flowers, and allowed herself to be suffocated by their overpowering
perfume. La Faute de l'Abbe Mouret. ALEXANDRE, a porter at the Halles Centrales, where he became
a friend of Claude Lantier. He was involved along with Florent and Gavard in the revolutionary
meetings at Lebigre's wine-shop, and was sentenced to two years'imprisonment. Le Ventre de Paris. ALEXANDRE,
one of the warders at the asylum of Les Tulettes. He was a friend of Antoine Macquart, and at his request
allowed Francois Mouret to escape from the asylum, with disastrous results to Abbe Faujas and his
relations. La Conquete de Plassans. ALEXANDRE, a boy employed in the shop known as Au Bonheur des
Dames. Pot-Bouille. AMADIEU, a speculator on the Paris Bourse who made a fortune by a rash purchase
of mining stock. He went into the affair without calculation or knowledge,
but his success made him revered by the entire Bourse.

He placed
no more orders, however, but seemed to be satisfied with his single victory. L'Argent. AMANDA,
one of the singers at a cafe concert in Boulevard Rochechouart. L'Assommoir. AMELIE, a demi-mondaine
who lodged at the Hotel Vanneau, which was kept by Madame Correur.

Son Excellence Eugene Rougon. AMELIE, wife of a journeyman carpenter who occupied a little room at
the top of Vabre's tenement-house in Rue Choiseul. Pot-Bouille. ANDRE (LE PERE), an old countryman
at Chavanoz, the village where Miette spent her childhood.

La Fortune des Rougon. ANGELE (SISTER), a nun attached to the infirmary
of the college of Plassans.

Her Madonna-like face turned the heads of all the older pupils, and one morning she disappeared
with Hermeline, a student of rhetoric. L'Oeuvre. ANGELIQUE MARIE, born 1851, was the daughter
of Sidonie Rougon, by an unknown father. Soon after her birth she was taken to the Foundling Hospital
by a nurse, Madame Foucart, and no further inquiries were ever made
about her.

She was at first boarded with Francoise Hamelin, by whom she was
not unkindly treated, and subsequently went to Paris with Louis Franchomme
and his wife, who wished to teach her the trade of artificial-flower
making.

Franchomme having died three months later, his widow went to reside at Beaumont with her brother,
Rabier, taking Angelique with her.

Unfortunately, Madame Franchomme died a few months afterwards, leaving Angelique to the care of the Rabiers,
who used her badly, not even giving her enough to eat.

In consequence of their treatment, she ran away on Christmas Day, 1860, and the following morning
was found in a fainting condition by Hubert, the chasuble-maker,
who noticed her lying in the snow within the porch of the cathedral
of Beaumont.

Hubert and his wife took the child into their home, and, becoming attached to her, ultimately
adopted her as their daughter, teaching her the art of embroidering vestments, in which she became
very skilful.

Angelique, though an amiable girl, was at first liable to violent attacks of temper, and it was
only by the exercise of much patience and tact on the part of Madame
Hubert that this tendency was overcome.

The girl was always a dreamer, and her cloistered life with the Huberts, along with constant reading of
the lives of the saints, brought out all that was mystic in her nature. A chance meeting between Angelique
and a young man named Felicien led to their falling in love, she being in entire ignorance of
the fact that he was the son of Monseigneur d'Hautecoeur, and a member of one of the oldest and proudest
families in France. Felicien's father having refused his consent to a marriage, and a personal appeal
to him by Angelique having failed, the lovers were separated for a time. The girl gradually fell
into ill-health, and seemed at the point of death when Monseigneur himself came to administer
the last rites of the Church. Having been miraculously restored to a measure of health, Angelique
was married to Felicien d'Hautecoeur in the great cathedral of Beaumont. She was very feeble, and as
she was leaving the church on the arm of her husband she sank to the ground. In the midst of
her happiness she died; quietly and gently as she had lived. Le Reve. ANGLARS (IRMA D'), a demi-mondaine
of former times who had been celebrated under the First Empire. In her later years she retired to a
house which she owned at Chamont, where she lived a simple yet stately life, treated with the greatest
respect by all the neighbourhood. Nana. ANNOUCHKA, mistress of Souvarine, and implicated with him in
a political plot. Disguised as a countryman, she assisted in the undermining of a railway over which
an imperial train was to pass, and it was she who eventually lit the fuse. She was captured along
with others, and Souvarine, who had escaped, was present at her trial during six long days.
When she came to be executed, she looked in vain among the crowd for
her lover, till Souvarine mounted on a stone, and, their eyes having
met, remained fixed in one long gaze till the end.

Germinal. ANTONIA, waiting-maid to Clorinde Balbi, with whom she was on familiar terms. Son Excellence
Eugene Rougon.

ARCHANGLAS (BROTHER), a Christian Brother, who lived at Les Artaud, and taught children there. He was a
coarse-minded man of violent temper, whose hatred of women led him to make the gravest charges
against them. He constituted himself a spy on the actions of Abbe Mouret, and was partly the means
of calling back the priest's memory of his sacred calling.

He insulted Jeanbernat and Albine so grossly, that after the girl's death the old man attacked him
and cut off his right ear with a pocket-knife. La Faute de l'Abbe Mouret. AUBERTOT (MADAME ELIZABETH),
sister of M. Beraud du Chatel, and aunt of Renee and Christine.

She gave a large sum of money to Saccard on his marriage to Renee. La Curee. AUBRY (SEVERINE),
youngest daughter of a gardener in the employment of Grandmorin. Her mother died when she was
in infancy, and she was only thirteen when she lost her father also. President Grandmorin, who was her
godfather, took charge of her, and brought her up with his daughter
Berthe. The two girls were sent to the same school at Rouen, and spent
their holidays together at Doinville. Ignorant and facile, Severine yielded
to the designs of the old President, who subsequently arranged a
marriage for her with Roubaud, an employee of the Western Railway
Company.

For three
years the couple lived happily, but a moment of forgetfulness, a trifling
lie which she neglected to sustain, revealed everything to Roubaud.

In an accession of jealous fury he forced
his wife to become his accomplice in the murder of Grandmorin, and it was
she who threw herself across the limbs of the President while her husband
struck the fatal blow. Suspicions fell upon the Roubauds, and indeed
the truth was known to M. Camy-Lamotte, but political considerations
made it desirable that the character of President Grandmorin should
not be publicly discussed, and the inquiry into the murder was dropped.
The domestic relations between the Roubauds were becoming more and
more strained, and Severine became entirely enamoured of Jacques
Lantier.

In order
to free herself from her husband, she persuaded Lantier to murder Roubaud
and fly with her to America. The arrangements were completed when Lantier
was seized with one of the homicidal frenzies to which he was subject,
and it was Severine herself who fell under his knife instead of their
intended victim.

La Bete Humaine. AUGUSTE, keeper of an eating-house
known as Le Moulin d'Argent on Boulevard de la Chapelle.
Besides, there was neither "Constitution" nor "compact," to send back Abraham's fugitives,
nor a truckling police to pounce upon them, nor gentleman-kidnappers, suing for his patronage,
volunteering to howl on their track, boasting their blood-hound scent, and pledging their "honor"
to hunt down and "deliver up," provided they had a description of the "flesh-marks," and were
suitably stimulated by pieces of silver. Abraham seems also to have been sadly deficient in
all the auxiliaries of family government, such as stocks, hand-cuffs, foot-chains, yokes, gags,
and thumb-screws. His destitution of these patriarchal indispensables is the more afflicting,
since he faithfully trained "his household to do justice and judgment," though so deplorably
destitute of the needful aids.

VI. We infer that servants were voluntary, as there is no instance of an Israelitish master
SELLING a servant. Abraham had thousands of servants, but seems never to have sold one. Isaac
"grew until he became very great," and had "great store of servants." Jacob's youth was spent
in the family of Laban, where he lived a servant twenty-one years. Afterward he had a large
number of servants. Joseph sent for Jacob to come into Egypt, "thou and thy children, and thy
children's children, and thy flocks and thy herds, and ALL THAT THOU HAST." Jacob took his
flocks and herds but no servants. Gen xlv. 10; xlvii. 16. They doubtless, served under their
own contracts, and when Jacob went into Egypt, they chose to stay in their own country. The
government might sell thieves, if they had no property, until their services had made good
the injury, and paid the legal fine. Ex. xxii. 3. But masters seem to have had no power to
sell their servants. To give the master a right to sell his servant, would annihilate the servant's
right of choice in his own disposal; but says the objector, "to give the master a right to
buy a servant, equally annihilates the servant's right of choice." Answer. It is one thing
to have a right to buy a man, and a different thing to have a right to buy him of another man[A].

[Footnote A: There is no evidence that masters had the power to dispose even the services of
their servants, as men hire out their laborers whom they employ by the year; but whether they
had or not, affects not the argument.]

Though servants were not bought of their masters, yet young females were bought of their fathers.
But their purchase as servants was their betrothal as wives. Ex. xxi. 7, 8. "If a man sell
his daughter to be a maid-servant, she shall not go out as the men-servants do. If she please
not her master WHO HATH BETROTHED HER TO HIMSELF, he shall let her be redeemed."[B]

[Footnote B: The comment of Maimonides on this passage is as follows: "A Hebrew handmaid might
not be sold but to one who laid himself under obligations, to espouse her to himself or to
his son, when she was fit to be betrothed."--Maimonides--Hilcoth--Obedim, Ch. IV. Sec. XI.
Jarchi, on the same passage, says, "He is bound to espouse her and take her to be his wife,
for the money of her purchase is the money of her espousal."]

VII. We infer that the Hebrew servant was voluntary in COMMENCING his service, because he was
pre-eminently so IN CONTINUING it. If, at the year of release, it was the servant's choice
to remain with his master, law required his ear to be bored by the judges of the land, thus
making it impossible for him to be held against his will. Yea more, his master was compelled
to keep him, however much he might wish to get rid of him.

VIII. The method prescribed for procuring servants, was an appeal to their choice. The Israelites
were commanded to offer them a suitable inducement, and then leave them to decide. They might
neither seize them by force, nor frighten them by threats, nor wheedle them by false pretences,
nor borrow them, nor beg them; but they were commanded to buy them[A]; that is, they were to
recognize the right of the individuals to dispose of their own services, and their right to
refuse all offers, and thus oblige those who made them, to do their own work. Suppose all,
with one accord, had refused to become servants, what provision did the Mosaic law make for
such an emergency? NONE.

[Footnote A: The case of thieves, whose services were sold until they had earned enough to
make restitution to the person wronged, and to pay the legal penalty, stands by itself, and
has nothing to do with the condition of servants.]

IX. Various incidental expressions corroborate the idea that servants became such by their
own contract. Job xli. 4, is an illustration, "Will he (Leviathan) make a COVENANT with thee?
wilt thou take him for a SERVANT forever?"

X. The transaction which made the Egyptians the SERVANTS OF PHARAOH was voluntary throughout.
See Gen. xlvii. 18-26. Of their own accord they came to Joseph and said, "We have not aught
left but our bodies and our lands; buy us;" then in the 25th verse, "we will be servants to
Pharaoh."

XI. We infer the voluntariness of servants, from the fact that RICH Strangers did not become
servants. Indeed, so far were they from becoming servants themselves, that they bought and
held Jewish servants. Lev. xxv. 47.

XII. The sacrifices and offerings which ALL were required to present, were to be made VOLUNTARILY.
Lev. i. 2, 3.

XIII. Mention is often made of persons becoming servants where they were manifestly and pre-eminently
VOLUNTARY. As the Prophet Elisha. 1 Kings xix. Yet so busy were her enemies at this time, that
even this simple arrangement, devised solely for the benefit of the people who were intimately
concerned in every thing that tended to diminish the royal expenditure, gave rise to numberless
cavils. Some affirmed that the issue of such notices in the name of the queen instead of in that
of the king was an infringement on his authority.

One most able and influential counselor of the Parliament, Duval
d'Esprémesnil, who in more than one discussion in subsequent years
showed that in general he fully appreciated the principles of constitutional
government, but who at this time seems to have been animated by no
other feeling than that of hatred for the existing ministers, even
went the length of affirming that there was "something not only impolitic
but immoral in the idea of any palace belonging to a queen of France.
[2]"

But when the arrangements had once been made, Marie Antoinette not unnaturally thought her
honor concerned in not abandoning it in deference to clamor so absurd, as well as so disrespectful
to herself; and St. Cloud, to which she had always been partial,
continued hers, and for the next five years divided her attention
with the Trianon.

But though she herself disregarded all such attacks with the calm dignity which belonged to her character,
her friends were not free from serious apprehensions as to the power of persistent detraction
and calumny. It was one of the penalties which the nation had to pay for the infamies which
had stained the crown during the last three centuries, that the people had learned to think that
nothing was too bad to say and to believe of their kings; and Marie Antoinette seemed as yet a fairer
mark than usual for slanderous attack, because her position was weaker than that of a King. [3]
It depended on the life of her husband and of a single son, who was already beginning to show
signs of weakness of constitution.

It was therefore with exceeding satisfaction that in the autumn of 1784 her friends learned
that she was again about to become a mother. They prayed with inexpressible anxiety that the
expected child should prove a son; and on the 27th of March, 1785, their prayers were granted.
A son was born, whom his delighted father at once took in his arms, calling him "his little Norman,"
and, saying "that the name alone would bring him happiness," created Duke of Normandy. No prophecy
was ever so sadly falsified; no king's son had ever so miserable a lot; but no forebodings of
evil as yet disturbed his parents. Their delight was fully shared by the body of the people;
for the cabals against the queen were as yet confined to the immediate precincts of the court,
and had not descended to infect the middle classes. It was with difficulty when, after her confinement,
she paid her visit to Paris to return thanks at Notre Dame and St. Geneviève, that the citizens
could he prevented from unharnessing her horses and dragging her
coach in triumph through the streets. [4] And their exultation was
fully shared by the better-intentioned class of courtiers, and by
all Marie Antoinette's real friends, who felt assured that the birth
of this second son had given her the security which had hitherto been
wanting to her position. The fact of having in his possession two talents of silver,
would of itself convict him of theft[B]. But since it was common for servants to own property
he might have it, and invest or use it, without attracting special attention, and that consideration
alone would have been a strong motive to the act. His master, while rebuking him for using
such means to get the money, not only does not take it from him; but seems to expect that he
would invest it in real estate, and cattle, and would procure servants with it. 2 Kings v.
26. We find the servant of Saul having money, and relieving his master in an emergency. 1 Sam.
ix. 8. Arza, the servant of Elah, was the owner of a house. That it was somewhat magnificent,
would be a natural inference from it's being a resort of the king. 1 Kings xvi. 9. The case
of the Gibeonites, who after becoming servants, still occupied their cities, and remained in
many respects, a distinct people for centuries; and that of the 150,000 Canaanites, the servants
of Solomon, who worked out their "tribute of bond-service" in levies, periodically relieving
each other, are additional illustrations of independence in the acquisition and ownership of
property.

[Footnote A: Though we have not sufficient data to decide upon the relative value of that sum,
then and now, yet we have enough to warrant us in saying that two talents of silver, had far
more value then than three thousand dollars have now.]

[Footnote B: Whoever heard of the slaves in our southern states stealing a large amount of
money? They "know how to take care of themselves" quite too well for that. When they steal,
they are careful to do it on such a small scale, or in the taking of such things as will make
detection difficult. No doubt they steal now and then a little, and a gaping marvel would it
be if they did not. She was killed by the volley fired by the troops at the strikers attacking the
Voreux pit. Germinal.

PIERRONNE (LA), the second wife of Pierron, was a daughter of La Brule. She was allowed by
the Company to sell sweetmeats and biscuits, which were a considerable source of revenue. Dansaert,
the head captain of the Voreux pit, was her lover, and through him she obtained various favours,
giving him in exchange information as to the intentions of the strikers. After the strike she
was enabled to acquire the little Estaminet du Progres. Germinal.

PIFARD, an usher at the college of Plassans, whose wonderful nose kept betraying his presence
behind doors when its owner went eavesdropping. L'Oeuvre.

PILLERAULT, a speculator on the Bourse, whose guiding principle was recklessness; he declared that
he plunged into catastrophes whenever he paused to reflect.

He was ruined by the failure of the Universal Bank. L'Argent.

PIOT AND RIVOIRE, a firm of furniture-dealers, whose business was seriously affected when Octave
Mouret added a furniture department to "The Ladies'Paradise." Au
Bonheur des Dames.

PIQUETTE kept an estaminet at Montsou, where Chaval lodged. Germinal.

PLOUGUERN (M. DE) was a member of the Chamber of Deputies during the reign of Louis Philippe.
After the Revolution of February, 1848, he manifested a sudden affection
for the Republic, and later, when the Emperor granted him the refuge
of the Senate, he was a Bonapartist.

He was a man of high birth and breeding, and though a sceptic, defended religion and family life.
During a journey in Italy he met Comtesse Balbi, whose lover he remained for thirty years. According
to some, Clorinde Balbi was his daughter.

Son Excellence Eugene Rougon.

PLUCHART, a former workman who was now secretary of a branch of the International Association
of workers. He had been Etienne Lantier's foreman at Lille, and at his request came to Montsou
to address the miners there. As a result of his visit ten thousand miners joined the International
Association. Germinal.

POIRETTE (LE PERE), a countryman of Bennecourt, with small eyes and the face of a wolf. He
was the owner of an old cottage, which Claude Lantier and Christine rented from him for two
hundred and fifty francs a year. L'Oeuvre.

POISSON (M.), who was originally a cabinet-maker, served his time as a soldier, and ultimately got
a place as a policeman, which he considered more certain and respectable.
He married Virginie, who afterwards went into business as a dealer
in groceries and sweetmeats in the shop previously occupied by Gervaise
Coupeau. Auguste Lantier, who had for some time lodged with the Coupeaus,
remained with the Poissons, and lived at their expense. M. Poisson
affected not to observe the resulting liaison between his wife and
Lantier. L'Assommoir.

POISSON (MADAME), wife of the preceding. See
Virginie. L'Assommoir.

POLAND, a pet rabbit which belonged to Rasseneur,
and was a favourite of Souvarine. Germinal.

POMARE (LA REINE), a
rag-picker, who had formerly been one of the handsomest women in Paris.
Now, for the sake of a laugh, the women of the district made her drink
absinthe, after which the street boys would chase her and throw stones.
Nana.

PORQUIER (DR.) the fashionable medical man of Plassans. And if it be avariciously asked, "How
much must I give him?" I say unto you, not less than thirty shekels, which is the valuation
of a servant, as declared in Ex. xxi. 32."--Maimonides, Hilcoth Obedim, Chap. ii. Sec. 3]

VII. The servants were BOUGHT. In other words, they received compensation in advance. Having
shown, under a previous head, that servants sold themselves, and of course received the compensation
for themselves, except in cases where parents hired out the time of their children till they
became of age[B], a mere reference to the fact is all that is required for the purposes of
this argument.

[Footnote B: Among the Israelites, girls became of age at twelve, and boys at thirteen years.]

VIII. We find masters at one time having a large number of servants, and afterwards none, without
any intimation that they were sold. The wages of servants would enable them to set up in business
for themselves. Jacob, after being Laban's servant for twenty-one years, became thus an independent
herdsman, and was the master of many servants. Gen. xxx. 43, xxxii. 15. But all these servants
had left him before he went down into Egypt, having doubtless acquired enough to commence business
for themselves. Gen. xlv. 10, 11; xlvi. 1-7, 32.

IX. God's testimony to the character of Abraham. Gen. xviii. 19. "For I know him that he will
command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep, THE WAY OF THE LORD
TO DO JUSTICE AND JUDGEMENT." God here testifies that Abraham taught his servants "the way
of the Lord." What was the "way of the Lord" respecting the payment of wages where service
was rendered? "Wo unto him that useth his neighbor's service WITHOUT WAGES!" Jer. xxii. 13.
"Masters, give unto your servants that which is JUST AND EQUAL." Col. iv. 1. "Render unto all
their DUES." Rom. xiii. 7. "The laborer is WORTHY OF HIS HIRE." Luke x. 7. How did Abraham
teach his servants to "do justice" to others? By doing injustice to them? Did he exhort them
to "render to all their dues" by keeping back their own? Did he teach them that "the laborer
was worthy of his hire" by robbing them of theirs? Did he beget in them a reverence for honesty
by pilfering all their time and labor? Did he teach them "not to defraud" others "in any matter"
by denying them "what was just and equal?" If each of Abraham's pupils under such a catechism
did not become a very Aristides in justice, then illustrious examples, patriarchal dignity,
and practical lessons, can make but slow headway against human perverseness!

X. Specific precepts of the Mosaic law enforcing general principles. Out of many, we select
the following: (1.) "Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn," or literally,
while he thresheth. Deut. xxv. 4. Here is a general principle applied to a familiar case. The
ox representing all domestic animals. Isa. xxx. 24. A particular kind of service, all kinds;
and a law requiring an abundant provision for the wants of an animal ministering to man in
a certain way,--a general principle of treatment covering all times, modes, and instrumentalities
of service. The object of the law was; not merely to enjoin tenderness towards brutes, but
to inculcate the duty of rewarding those who serve us; and if such care be enjoined, by God,
both for the ample sustenance and present enjoyment of a brute, what would be a meet return
for the services of man?--MAN with his varied wants, exalted nature and immortal destiny! Paul
says expressly, that this principle lies at the bottom of the statute. 1 Cor. ix. 9, 10, "For
it is written in the law of Moses, Thou shalt not muzzle the mouth of the ox that treadeth
out the corn. Doth God take care for oxen? Or saith he it altogether for OUR SAKES? that he
that ploweth should plow in HOPE, and that he that thresheth in hope should be PARTAKER OF
HIS HOPE," (2.) "If thy brother be waxen poor, and fallen in decay with thee, then thou shalt
relieve him, YEA, THOUGH HE BE A STRANGER or a SOJOURNER that he may live with thee. Take thou
no usury of him, or increase, but fear thy God. Thou shalt not give him thy money upon usury,
nor lend him thy victuals for increase." Lev. xxv. 35-37. Now, we ask, by what process of pro-slavery
legerdemain, this regulation can be made to harmonize with the doctrine of WORK WITHOUT PAY?
Did God declare the poor stranger entitled to RELIEF, and in the same breath, authorize them
to "use his services without wages;" force him to work and ROB HIM OF HIS EARNINGS?

V.--WERE MASTERS THE PROPRIETORS OF SERVANTS AS LEGAL PROPERTY?

The discussion of this topic has already been somewhat anticipated, but a variety of additional
considerations remain to be noticed.

1. Servants were not subjected to the uses nor liable to the contingencies of property. (1.)
They were never taken in payment for their masters' debts, though children were sometimes taken
(without legal authority) for the debts of a father. 2 Kings iv. 1; Job xxiv. 9; Isa. l., 1;
Matt. xviii. 25. Creditors took from debtors property of all kinds, to satisfy their demands.
Job xxiv. 3, cattle are taken; Prov. xxii. 27, household furniture; Lev. xxv. 25-28, the productions
of the soil; Lev. xxv. 27-30, houses; Ex. xxii. 26-29, Deut. xxiv. 10-13, Matt, v. 40, clothing;
but servants were taken in no instance. (2.) Servants were never given as pledges. Property
of all sorts was given in pledge. We find household furniture, clothing, cattle, money, signets,
and personal ornaments, with divers other articles of property, used as pledges for value received;
but no servants. (3.) All lost PROPERTY was to be restored. Oxen, asses, sheep, raiment, and
"whatsoever lost things," are specified--servants not. Deut. xxii. 13. Besides, the Israelites
were forbidden to return the runaway servant. Deut. xxiii. 15. (4.) The Israelites never gave
away their servants as presents. They made costly presents, of great variety. Lands, houses,
all kinds of animals, merchandise, family utensils, precious metals, grain, armor, &c. are
among their recorded gifts. Giving presents to superiors and persons of rank, was a standing
usage. 1 Sam. x. 27; 1 Sam. xvi. 20; 2 Chron. xvii. 5. Abraham to Abimelech, Gen. xxi. 27;
Jacob to the viceroy of Egypt, Gen. xliii. 11; Joseph to his brethren and father, Gen. xlv.
22, 23; Benhadad to Elisha, 2 Kings viii. 8, 9; Ahaz to Tiglath Pilezer, 2 Kings vi. 8; Solomon
to the Queen of Sheba, 1 Kings x. 13; Jeroboam to Ahijah, 1 Kings xiv. 3; Asa to Benhadad,
1 Kings xv. 18, 19. But no servants were given as presents--though it was a prevailing fashion
in the surrounding nations. Gen. xii. 16; Gen. xx. 14. It may be objected that Laban GAVE handmaids
to his daughters, Jacob's wives. Without enlarging on the nature of the polygamy then prevalent
suffice it to say that the handmaids of wives were regarded as wives, though of inferior dignity
and authority. That Jacob so regarded his handmaids, is proved by his curse upon Reuben, Gen.
xlix. 4, and Chron. v. 1; also by the equality of their children with those of Rachel and Leah.
But had it been otherwise--had Laban given them as articles of property, then, indeed, the
example of this "good old patriarch and slaveholder," Saint Laban, would have been a forecloser
to all argument. Ah! we remember his jealousy for religion--his holy indignation when he found
that his "GODS" were stolen! How he mustered his clan, and plunged over the desert in hot pursuit,
seven days, by forced marches; how he ransacked a whole caravan, sifting the contents of every
tent, little heeding such small matters as domestic privacy, or female seclusion, for lo! the
zeal of his "IMAGES" had eaten him up! No wonder that slavery, in its Bible-navigation, drifting
dismantled before the free gusts, should scud under the lee of such a pious worthy to haul
up and refit: invoking his protection, and the benediction of his "GODS!" "Again, it may be
objected that, servants were enumerated in inventories of property. If that proves servants
property, it proves wives property. "Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house, thou shalt
not covet thy neighbor's WIFE, nor his man-servant, nor his maid-servant, nor his ox, nor his
ass, nor any thing that is thy neighbor's." Ex. xx. 17. In inventories of mere property if
servants are included, it is in such a way, as to show that they are not regarded as property.
See Eccl. ii. 7, 8. But when the design is to show not merely the wealth, but the greatness
of any personage, servants are spoken of, as well as property. In a word, if riches alone are
spoken of, no mention is made of servants; if greatness, servants and property. Gen. xiii.
2. "And Abraham was very rich in cattle, in silver and in gold." So in the fifth verse, "And
Lot also had flocks, and herds, and tents." In the seventh verse servants are mentioned, "And
there was a strife between the HERDMEN of Abraham's cattle and the HERDMEN of Lot's cattle."
See also Josh. xxii. 8; Gen. xxxiv. 23; Job xlii. 12; 2 Chron. xxi. 3; xxxii. 27-29; Job i.
3-5; Deut. viii. 12-17; Gen. xxiv. 35, xxvi. 13, xxx. 43. Jacobs's wives say to him, "All the
riches which thou hast taken from our father that is ours and our children's." Then follows
an inventory of property. "All his cattle," "all his goods," "the cattle of his getting." He
had a large number of servants at the time but they are not included with his property. Comp.
Gen. xxx. 43, with Gen. xxxi. 16-18. When he sent messengers to Esau, wishing to impress him
with an idea of his state and sway, he bade them tell him not only of his RICHES, but of his
GREATNESS; that Jacob had "oxen, and asses, and flocks, and men-servants, and maid-servants."
Gen. xxxii. 4, 5. Yet in the present which he sent, there were no servants; though he seems
to have sought as much variety as possible. Gen. xxxii. 14, 15; see also Gen. xxxvi. 6, 7;
Gen. xxxiv. 23. As flocks and herds were the staples of wealth, a large number of servants
presupposed large possessions of cattle, which would require many herdsmen. When servants are
spoken of in connection with mere property, the terms used to express the latter do not include
the former. The Hebrew word Mikne, is an illustration. It is derived from Kana, to procure,
to buy, and its meaning is, a possession, wealth, riches. The author has waited a long time in
hopes that some more able pen would be devoted to the subject, but the wants of the numerous,
and constantly increasing, class, just mentioned, induces him to
wait no longer.

All the English works on the subject-- particularly on the practical application, of Photogenic
drawing-- are deficient in many minute details, which are essential to a complete understanding
of the art. Many of their methods of operating are entirely different from, and much inferior
to, those practised in the United States: their apparatus, also, cannot compare with ours for
completeness, utility or simplicity.

I shall, therefore, confine myself principally-- so far as Photogenic drawing upon metalic plates is
concerned-- to the methods practised by the most celebrated and experienced operators, drawing upon French
and English authority only in cases where I find it essential to the purpose for which I design
my work, namely: furnishing a complete system of Photography; such an one as will enable any gentleman,
or lady, who may wish to practise the art, for profit or amusement, to do so without the trouble
and expense of seeking instruction from professors, which in many cases within my own knowledge
has prevented persons from embracing the profession.

To English authors I am principally indebted for that portion of my work relating to Photogenic drawing
on paper. To them we owe nearly all the most important improvements
in that branch of the art.

Besides, it has been but seldom attempted in the United States, and then without any decided
success. Of these attempts I shall speak further in the Historical
portion of this volume.

Every
thing essential, therefore, to a complete knowledge of the whole art, comprising all the most
recent discoveries and improvements down to the day of publication
will be found herein laid down.

CONTENTS I. A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE ART.

II.
THE THEORY ON LIGHT.-- THE PHOTOGRAPHIC PRINCIPLE III. SYNOPSIS OF MR. HUNT'S TREATISE ON "THE
INFLUENCE OF THE SOLAR RAYS ON COMPOUND BODIES, WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE TO THEIR PHOTOGRAPHIC
APPLICATION." IV. A FEW HINTS AND SUGGESTIONS TO DAGUERREOTYPISTS.

V. DAGUERREOTYPE APPARATUS. VI. THE DAGUERREOTYPE PROCESS. VII. PAPER DAGUERREOTYPES.-- ETCHING DAGUERREOTYPES.
VIII. PHOTOGENIC DRAWING ON PAPER. IX. CALOTYPE AND CHRYSOTYPE. X. CYANOTYPE-- ENERGIATYPE-- CHROMATYPE--
ANTHOTYPE-- AMPHITYPE AND "CRAYON DAGUERREOTYPE." XI. ON THE PROBABILITY OF PRODUCING COLORED
PICTURES BY THE SOLAR RADIATIONS-- PHOTOGRAPHIC DEVIATIONS-- LUNAR
PICTURES-- DRUMMOND LIGHT.

XII. ON COLORING DAGUERREOTYPES. XIII. THE PHOTOGRAPHOMETER. INDEX. INTRODUCTION New York, January 27, 1849.
E. ANTHONY, ESQ.

Dear Sir,-- In submitting the accompanying "History and Practice
of Photography" to your perusal, and for your approbation, I do so
with the utmost confidence in your ability as a practical man, long
engaged in the science of which it treats, as well as your knowledge
of the sciences generally; as well as your regard for candor.

To
you, therefore, I leave the decision whether or no I have accomplished
my purpose, and produced a work which may not only be of practical
benefit to the Daguerrean artist, but of general interest to the reading
public, and your decision will influence me in offering it for, or
withholding it from, publication.

If it meets your approbation, I would most respectfully ask permission to dedicate it to you, subscribing
myself, With esteem, Ever truly yours, HENRY H. SNELLING New York, February 1st, 1849. Mr.
H. H. SNELLING. Dear Sir-- Your note of January 27th, requesting permission to dedicate to me
your "History and Practice of Photography," I esteem a high compliment, particularly since I have
read the manuscript of your work. Such a treatise has long been needed, and the manner in
which you have handled the subject will make the book as interesting to the reading public as it is
valuable to the Daguerrean artist, or the amateur dabbler in Photography.

I have read nearly all of the many works upon this art that have emanated from the London and Paris presses,
and I think the reader will find in yours the pith of them all, with
much practical and useful information that I do not remember to have
seen communicated elsewhere.

There is much in it to arouse the reflective and inventive faculties
of our Daguerreotypists.

They have heretofore stumbled along with very little knowledge of
the true theory of their art, and yet the quality of their productions
is far in advance of those of the French and English artists, most
of whose establishments I have had the pleasure of visiting I feel
therefore, that when a sufficient amount of theoretic knowledge shall
have been added to this practical skill on the part of our operators,
and when they shall have been made fully acquainted with what has
been attained or attempted by others, a still greater advance in the
art will be manifested.

A GOOD Daguerreotypist is by no means a mere machine following a certain set of fixed rules.
Success in this art requires personal skill and artistic taste to a much greater degree than
the unthinking public generally imagine; in fact more than is imagined
by nine-tenths of the Daguerreotypists themselves.

And we see as a natural result, that while the business numbers its thousands of votaries, but
few rise to any degree of eminence. It is because they look upon their
business as a mere mechanical operation, and having no aim or pride
beyond the earning of their daily bread, they calculate what will
be a fair per centage on the cost of their plate, case, and chemicals,
leaving MIND, which is as much CAPITAL as anything else (where it
is exercised,) entirely out of the question.

The art of taking photographs on PAPER, of which your work treats at considerable length, has as yet
attracted but little attention in this country, though destined, as I fully believe, to attain
an importance far superior to that to which the Daguerreotype has
risen.

The American mind needs a waking up upon the subject, and I think your book will give a powerful
impulse in this direction. In Germany a high degree of perfection has been reached, and I hope
your countrymen will not be slow to follow. Your interesting account of the experiments of Mr. Wattles
was entirely new to me, and is another among the many evidences that when the age is fully ripe
for any great discovery, it is rare that it does not occur to more than a single mind. Trusting
that your work will meet with the encouragement which your trouble in preparing it deserves,
and with gratitude for the undeserved compliment paid to me in its
dedication, I remain, very sincerely, Your friend and well wisher,
E. ANTHONY.

PHOTOGRAPHY. CHAP. I. A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE ART. As in all cases of great and valuable inventions in
science and art the English lay claim to the honor of having first discovered that of Photogenic drawing.
But we shall see in the progress of this history, that like many other assumptions of their authors,
priority in this is no more due them, then the invention of steamboats, or the cotton gin. This
claim is founded upon the fact that in 1802 Mr. Wedgwood recorded an experiment in the Journal
of the Royal Institution of the following nature. "A piece of paper, or other convenient material,
was placed upon a frame and sponged over with a solution of nitrate of silver; it was then
placed behind a painting on glass and the light traversing the painting produced a kind of
copy upon the prepared paper, those parts in which the rays were
least intercepted being of the darkest hues.

Here, however, terminated the experiment; for although both Mr. Wedgwood and Sir Humphry Davey
experimented carefully, for the purpose of endeavoring to fix the drawings thus obtained, yet
the object could not be accomplished, and the whole ended in failure."

This, by their own showing, was the earliest attempt of the English savans. But this much of the
principle was known to the Alchemists at an early date-- although practically produced in another
way-- as the following experiment, to be found in old books, amply
proves.

"Dissolve chalk in aquafortis to the consistence of milk, and add to it a strong solution of silver;
keep this liquor in a glass bottle well stopped; then cutting out from a piece of paper the
letters you would have appear, paste it on the decanter, and lay
it in the sun's rays in such a manner that the rays may pass through
the spaces cut out of the paper and fall on the surface of the liquor
the part of the glass through which the rays pass will be turned black,
while that under the paper remains white; but particular care must
be observed that the bottle be not moved during the operation."

Had not the alchemists been so intent upon the desire to discover the far famed philosopher's
stone, as to make them unmindful of the accidental dawnings of more
valuable discoveries, this little experiment in chemistry might have
induced them to prosecute a more thorough search into the principle,
and Photogenic art would not now, as it is, be a new one.

It is even asserted that the Jugglers of India were for many ages
in possession of a secret by which they were enabled, in a brief space,
to copy the likeness of any individual by the action of light.

This fact, if fact it be, may account for the celebrated magic mirrors
said to be possessed by these jugglers, and probable cause of their
power over the people.

However, as early as 1556 the fact was established that a combination
of chloride and silver, called, from its appearance, horn silver,
was blackened by the sun's rays; and in the latter part of the last
century Mrs. Fulhame published an experiment by which a change of
color was effected in the chloride of gold by the agency of light;
and gave it as her opinion that words might be written in this way.

These incidents are considered as the first steps towards the discovery
of the Photogenic art.

Mr. Wedgwood's experiments can scarcely be said to be any improvement
on them since he failed to bring them to practical usefulness, and
his countrymen will have to be satisfied with awarding the honor
of its complete adaptation to practical purposes, to MM. Niepce and
Daguerre of France, and to Professors Draper, and Morse of New-York.

These gentlemen-- MM. Niepce and Daguerre-- pursued the subject simultaneously, without either, however
being aware of the experiments of his colleague in science. For several
years, each pursued his researches individually until chance made
them acquainted, when they entered into co-partnership, and conjointly
brought the art almost to perfection.

M. Niepce presented his first paper on the subject to the Royal Society in 1827, naming his
discovery Heliography.

What led him to the study of the principles of the art I have no means, at present, of knowing, but it was
probably owing to the facts recorded by the Alchemists, Mrs. Fulhame and others, already mentioned.
But M. Daguerre, who is a celebrated dioramic painter, being desirous of employing some of
the singularly changeable salts of silver to produce a peculiar class of effects in his paintings,
was led to pursue an investigation which resulted in the discovery of the Daguerreotype, or
Photogenic drawing on plates of copper coated with silver. To this gentleman-- to his liberality--
are we Americans indebted for the free use of his invention; and
the large and increasing class of Daguerrean artists of this country
should hold him in the most profound respect for it.

He was not willing that it should be confined to a few individuals who might monopolise the benefits
to be derived from its practice, and shut out all chance of improvement. Like a true, noble hearted
French gentleman he desired that his invention should spread freely
throughout the whole world.

With these views he opened negociations with the French government which were concluded most
favorably to both the inventors, and France has the "glory of endowing the whole world of
science and art with one of the most surprising discoveries that honor the land." Notwithstanding
this, it has been patented in England and the result is what might have been expected: English pictures
are far below the standard of excellence of those taken by American artists. I have seen some medium
portraits, for which a guinea each had been paid, and taken too, by a celebrated artist, that
our poorest Daguerreotypists would be ashamed to show to a second
person, much less suffer to leave their rooms.

CALOTYPE, the name given to one of the methods of Photogenic drawing on paper, discovered, and
perfected by Mr. Fox Talbot of England, is precisely in the same predicament, not only in that
country but in the United States, Mr. Talbot being patentee in both. He is a man of some wealth,
I believe, but he demands so high a price for a single right in this
country, that none can be found who have the temerity to purchase.

The execution of his pictures is also inferior to those taken by the German artists, and I
would remark en passant, that the Messrs. Mead exhibited at the last fair of the American Institute,
(of 1848,) four Calotypes, which one of the firm brought from Germany last Spring, that for
beauty, depth of tone and excellence of execution surpass the finest
steel engraving.

When Mr. Talbot's patent for the United States expires and our ingenious Yankee boys have the
opportunity, I have not the slightest doubt of the Calotype, in their hands, entirely superceding
the Daguerreotype. Let them, therefore, study the principles of the art as laid down in this
little work, experiment, practice and perfect themselves in it, and when that time does arrive be prepared
to produce that degree of excellence in Calotype they have already obtained in Daguerreotype. It
is to Professor Samuel F. B. Morse, the distinguished inventor of
the Magnetic Telegraph, of New York, that we are indebted for the
application of Photography, to portrait taking.

He was in Paris, for the purpose of presenting to the scientific world his Electro-Magnetic Telegraph,
at the time, (1838,) M. Daguerre announced his splendid discovery, and its astounding results
having an important bearing on the arts of design arrested his attention. In his letter to me on
the subject, the Professor gives the following interesting facts.

"The process was a secret, and negociations were then in progress, for the disclosure of it to
the public between the French government and the distinguished discoverer. M. Daguerre had
shown his results to the king, and to a few only of the distinguished savans, and by the advice of M. Arago,
had determined to wait the action of the French Chambers, before
showing them to any other persons.

I was exceedingly desirous of seeing them, but knew not how to approach M. Daguerre who was a stranger
to me. On mentioning my desire to Robert Walsh, Esq., our worthy Consul, he said to me;'state that
you are an American, the inventor of the Telegraph, request to see them, and invite him in turn
to see the Telegraph, and I know enough of the urbanity and liberal feelings of the French, to insure
you an invitation.'I was successfull in my application, and with a young friend, since deceased,
the promising son of Edward Delevan, Esq., I passed a most delightful hour with M. Daguerre, and his
enchanting sun-pictures.

My letter containing an account of this visit, and these pictures, was the first announcement in this
country of this splendid discovery." "I may here add the singular sequel to this visit. On the
succeeding day M. Daguerre paid me a visit to see the Telegraph and witness its operations. He seemed
much gratified and remained with me perhaps two hours; two melancholy hours to him, as they afterwards
proved; or while he was with me, his buildings, including his diorama, his studio, his laboratory,
with all the beautiful pictures I had seen the day before, were consumed by fire. Fortunately for
mankind, matter only was consumed, the soul and mind of the genius, and the process were still
in existence." On his return home, Professor Morse waited with impatience for the revelation
of M. Daguerre's process, and no sooner was it published than he
procured a copy of the work containing it, and at once commenced taking
Daguerreotype pictures.

At first his object was solely to furnish his studio with studies from nature; but his experiments led
him into a belief of the practicability of procuring portraits by the process, and he was undoubtedly
the first whose attempts were attended with success. Thinking, at that time, that it was necessary
to place the sitters in a very strong light, they were all taken with their eyes closed. Others
were experimenting at the same time, among them Mr. Wolcott and Prof.
Draper, and Mr. Morse, with his accustomed modesty, thinks that it
would be difficult to say to whom is due the credit of the first Daguerreotype
portrait.

At all events, so far as my knowledge serves me, Professor Morse deserves the laurel wreath, as
from him originated the first of our inumerable class of Daguerreotypists; and many of his pupils
have carried the manipulation to very great perfection.

In connection with this matter I will give the concluding paragraph of a private letter from
the Professor to me; He says.

"If mine were the first, other experimenters soon made better results,
and if there are any who dispute that I was first, I shall have no
argument with them; for I was not so anxious to be the first to produce
the result, as to produce it in any way.

I esteem it but the natural carrying out of the wonderful discovery, and that the credit was after
all due to Daguerre. I lay no claim to any improvements." Since I commenced the compilation of this
work, I have had the pleasure of making the acquaintance of an American gentleman-- James M. Wattles
Esq.-- who as early as 1828-- and it will be seen, by what I have
already stated, that this is about the same date of M. Niepce's discovery--
had his attention attracted to the subject of Photography, or as he
termed it "Solar picture drawing," while taking landscape views by
means of the camera-obscura.

When we reflect upon all the circumstances connected with his experiments,
the great disadvantages under which he labored, and his extreme youthfullness,
we cannot but feel a national pride-- yet wonder-- that a mere yankee
boy, surrounded by the deepest forests, hundred of miles from the
populous portion of our country, without the necessary materials,
or resources for procuring them, should by the force of his natural
genius make a discovery, and put it in practical use, to accomplish
which, the most learned philosophers of Europe, with every requisite
apparatus, and a profound knowledge of chemistry-- spent years of
toil to accomplish.

How much more latent talent may now be slumbering from the very same
cause which kept Mr. Wattles from publicly revealing his discoveries,
viz; want of encouragement-- ridicule! At the time when the idea of taking
pictures permanently on paper by means of the camera-obscura first
occurred to him, he was but sixteen years of age, and under the instructions
of Mr. Charles Le Seuer, (a talented artist from Paris) at the New
Harmony school, Indiana.

Drawing and painting being the natural bent of his mind, he was frequently
employed by the professors to make landscape sketches in the manner
mentioned.

The beauty of the image of these landscapes produced on the paper in the camera-obscura, caused
him to pause and admire them with all the ardor of a young artist, and wish that by some means, he could
fix them there in all their beauty. From wishing he brought himself to think that it was not
only possible but actually capable of accomplishment and from thinking
it could, he resolved it should be done.

He was, however, wholly ignorant of even the first principles of chemistry, and natural philosophy,
and all the knowledge he was enabled to obtain from his teachers was of very little service to him.
To add to this, whenever he mentioned his hopes to his parents, they laughed at him, and bade
him attend to his studies and let such moonshine thoughts alone-- still he persevered, though
secretly, and he met with the success his perseverance deserved. For
the truth of his statement, Mr. Wattles refers to some of our most
respectable citizens residing at the west, and I am in hopes that
I shall be enabled to receive in time for this publication, a confirmation
from one or more of these gentlemen.

Be that as it may, I feel confident in the integrity of Mr. Wattles,
and can give his statement to the world without a doubt of its truth.
The following sketch of his experiments and their results will, undoubtedly,
be interesting to every American reader and although some of the
profound philosophers of Europe may smile at his method of proceeding,
it will in some measure show the innate genius of American minds, and
prove that we are not far behind our trans-atlantic brethren in the
arts and sciences.

Mr. Wattles says: "In my first efforts to effect the desired object, they were feeble indeed,
and owing to my limited knowledge of chemistry-- wholly acquired
by questioning my teachers-- I met with repeated failures but following
them up with a determined spirit, I at last produced, what I thought
very fair samples-- but to proceed to my experiments."

"I first dipped a quarter sheet of thin white writing paper in a weak solution of caustic (as I then
called it) and dried it in an empty box, to keep it in the dark; when dry, I placed it in the
camera and watched it with great patience for nearly half an hour, without producing any
visible result; evidently from the solution being to weak. I then soaked the same piece of
paper in a solution of common potash, and then again in caustic water a little stronger than the first,
and when dry placed it in the camera.

In about forty-five minutes I plainly percieved the effect, in the gradual darkening of various parts of
the view, which was the old stone fort in the rear of the school garden, with the trees, fence,&
c. I then became convinced of the practicability of producing beautiful solar pictures in this
way; but, alas! my picture vanished and with it, all-- no not all-- my hopes. With renewed
determination I began again by studying the nature of the preparation, and came to the conclusion, that
if I could destroy the part not acted upon by the light without injuring that which was so
acted upon, I could save my pictures.

I then made a strong solution of sal. soda I had in the house, and soaked my paper in it, and
then washed it off in hot water, which perfectly fixed the view upon the paper. This paper was
very poor with thick spots, more absorbent than other parts, and consequently made dark shades
in the picture where they should not have been; but it was enough to convince me that I had succeeded,
and that at some future time, when I had the means and a more extensive knowledge of chemistry,
I could apply myself to it again. I have done so since, at various times, with perfect success;
but in every instance laboring under adverse circumstances."

I have very recently learned, that, under the present patent laws of the United States, every
foreign patentee is required to put his invention, or discovery, into practical use within
eighteen months after taking out his papers, or otherwise forfeit his patent. With regard to Mr.
Talbot's Calotype patent, this time has nearly, if not quite expired, and my countrymen are
now at perfect liberty to appropriate the art if they feel disposed.

From the statement of Mr. Wattles, it will be perceived that this can be done without dishonor, as in
the first instance Mr. Talbot had no positive right to his patent. Photography; or sun-painting
is divided, according to the methods adopted for producing pictures, into DAGUERREOTYPE, CHROMATYPE,
CALOTYPE, ENERGIATYPE, CHRYSOTYPE, ANTHOTYPE and CYANOTYPE, AMPHITYPE. CHAP. II. THE THEORY
ON LIGHT.-- THE PHOTOGRAPHIC PRINCIPLE Some philosophers contend that to the existence of light alone
we owe the beautiful effects produced by the Photogenic art, while others give sufficient reasons
for doubting the correctness of the assumption. That the results are effected by a principle associated
with light and not by the luminous principle itself, is the most probable conclusion. The
importance of a knowledge of this fact becomes most essential in practice, as will presently be seen.
To this principle Mr. Hunt gives the name of ENERGIA. THE NATURE of Light is not wholly known, but
it is generally believed to be matter, as in its motions it obeys
the laws regulating matter. Their ignorance of judicial proceedings, laws of
evidence, &c., made such instructions necessary. The detail gone into, in the verses quoted,
is manifestly to enable them to get at the motive and find out whether the master designed
to kill. (1.) "If a man smite his servant with a rod."--The instrument used, gives a clue to
the intent. See Num. xxxv. 16, 18. A rod, not an axe, nor a sword, nor a bludgeon, nor any
other death-weapon--hence, from the kind of instrument, no design to kill would be inferred;
for intent to kill would hardly have taken a rod for its weapon. But if the servant die under
his hand, then the unfitness of the instrument, is point blank against him; for, to strike
him with a rod until he dies, argues a great many blows and great violence, and this kept up
to the death-gasp, showed an intent to kill. Hence "He shall surely be punished." But if he
continued a day or two, the length of time that he lived, together with the kind of instrument
used, and the master's pecuniary interest in his life, ("he is his money,") all made a strong
case of circumstantial evidence, showing that the master did not design to kill. Further, the
word nakam, here rendered punished, is not so rendered in another instance. Yet it occurs thirty-five
times in the Old Testament, and in almost every place is translated "avenge," in a few, "to
take vengeance," or "to revenge," and in this instance ALONE, "punish." As it stands in our
translation, the pronoun preceding it, refers to the master, whereas it should refer to the
crime, and the word rendered punished, should have been rendered avenged. The meaning is this:
If a man smite his servant or his maid with a rod, and he die under his hand, IT (the death)
shall surely be avenged, or literally, by avenging it shall be avenged; that is, the death
of the servant shall be avenged by the death of the master. So in the next verse, "If he continue
a day or two," his death is not to be avenged by the death of the master, as in that case the
crime was to be adjudged manslaughter, and not murder. In the following verse, another case
of personal injury is stated, for which the injurer is to pay a sum of money; and yet our translators
employ the same phraseology in both places. One, an instance of deliberate, wanton, killing
by piecemeal. The other, an accidental, and comparatively slight injury--of the inflicter,
in both cases, they say the same thing! "He shall surely be punished." Now, just the discrimination
to be looked for where God legislates, is marked in the original. In the case of the servant
wilfully murdered, He says, "It (the death) shall surely be avenged," that is, the life of
the wrong doer shall expiate the crime. The same word is used in the Old Testament, when the
greatest wrongs are redressed, by devoting the perpetrators to destruction. In the case of
the unintentional injury, in the following verse, God says, "He shall surely be fined," (Aunash.)
"He shall pay as the judges determine." The simple meaning of the word anash, is to lay a fine.
It is used in Deut. xxii. 19: "They shall amerce him in one hundred shekels," and in 2 Chron.
xxxvi. 3: "He condemned (mulcted) the land in a hundred talents of gold." That avenging the
death of the servant, was neither imprisonment, nor stripes, nor a fine, but that it was taking
the master's life we infer, (1.) From the use of the word nakam. See Gen. iv. 24; Josh. x.
13; Judg. xiv. 7; xvi. 28; I Sam. xiv. 24; xviii. 25; xxv. 31; 2 Sam. iv. 8; Judg. v. 2: I
Sam. xxv. 26-33. (2.) From the express statute, Lev. xxiv. 17; "He that killeth ANY man shall
surely be put to death." Also Num. xxxv. 30, 31: "Whoso killeth ANY person, the murderer shall
be put to death. (3.) The Targum of Jonathan gives the verse thus, "Death by the sword shall
surely be adjudged." The Targum of Jerusalem. "Vengeance shall be taken for him to the uttermost."
Jarchi, the same. The Samaritan version: "He shall die the death," Again the clause "for he
is his money," is quoted to prove that the servant is his master's property, and therefore,
if he died, the master was not to be punished. The assumption is, that the phrase, "HE IS HIS
MONEY." proves not only that the servant is worth money to the master, but that he is an article
of property. If the advocates of slavery insist upon taking the principle of interpretation
into the Bible, and turning it loose, let them stand and draw in self-defence. If they endorse
for it at one point, they must stand sponsors all around the circle. It will be too late to
cry for quarter when its stroke clears the table, and tilts them among the sweepings beneath.
The Bible abounds with such expressions as the following: "This (bread) is my body;" "this
(wine) is my blood;" "all they (the Israelites) are brass and tin;" "this (water) is the blood
of the men who went in jeopardy of their lives;" "the Lord God is a sun and a shield;" "God
is love;" "the seven good ears are seven years, and the seven good kine are seven years;" "the
tree of the field is man's life;" "God is a consuming fire;" "he is his money," &c. A passion
for the exact literalities of the Bible is so amiable, it were hard not to gratify it in this
case. The words in the original are (Kaspo-hu,) "his silver is he." The objector's principle
of interpretation is a philosopher's stone! Its miracle touch transmutes five feet eight inches
of flesh and bones into solid silver! Quite a permanent servant, if not so nimble with all--reasoning
against "forever," is forestalled henceforth, and, Deut. xxiii. 15, utterly outwitted. The
obvious meaning of the phrase, "He is his money," is, he is worth money to his master, and
since, if the master had killed him, it would have taken money out of his pocket, the pecuniary
loss, the kind of instrument used, and the fact of his living some time after the injury, (if
the master meant to kill, he would be likely to do it while about it,) all together make a
strong case of presumptive evidence clearing the master of intent to kill. He and his family
are from the Ungava bay, and had been upon the watch in this place during the whole spring.
They welcomed us with shouts of joy, and firing of their pieces, and we had indeed the greatest
reason to thank God, that he had sent us this man, to conduct us on our way to an unknown
country, and through unfrequented seas.

For this service Uttakiyok was eminently qualified, and without such a steady, faithful guide, we
should have been wandering in the most painful and dangerous uncertainty in the desert regions
to the West of Cape Chudleigh, where, on a coast of 100 miles in length, we did not meet with
a single inhabitant. He was so anxiously intent upon meeting us, that he had erected signals
on all the heights surrounding his tent, to prevent our missing him. Among his countrymen he
is much respected, on account of his superior sense, and skill in all Esquimaux arts, and possesses
great influence among them.

Uttakiyok was one of the two Esquimaux, from whom, in the year 1800, we received the first distinct
information respecting the Ungava country and its inhabitants, by which the desire, excited both
at home and here in Labrador, to visit the northern Esquimaux, was greatly strengthened, and
led to a resolution, if possible, to take early steps to accomplish
this object, (See page 3).

Two
years ago, he had been on a trading voyage to Okkak, from Killinek, where he then dwelt, and
intended to return, in the summer following, to Ungava, his native country, but an illness, which
befel his son, detained him. This intelligence was received at Okkak during last winter, when
we sent him word, that as we purposed paying his countrymen a visit, we wished him to wait for
us, that he might conduct us through the straits of Killinek. But having heard nothing further
concerning him, we remained in uncertainty respecting his intentions. We were the more thankful
to God, who had disposed the heart of this man cheerfully to accept of the commission, and wait
to be our guide, an office which he performed with a degree of faithfulness and disinterested kindness,
which claims our admiration and gratitude.

While we were here waiting for a favourable opportunity to pass the straits, which were yet filled
with ice, he behaved in the kindest manner to us and our Esquimaux. Though a heathen, he regularly
attended our morning and evening worship, and declared to Jonathan, that he also intended to
be converted to Jesus, and if we would form a settlement in his country, would come and live
with us, and was sure, that many of his countrymen would do the same.

Around his tent, a considerable extent of rock was covered with seal's flesh, and in the hollows
were pools of oil.

Ten bags of blubber were standing ready for sale; and with a view to shew him our good-will,
Brother Kohlmeister bartered with him for three of them, which were hid under the stones, to take
them with us, if practicable, on our return.

26th. We put up our three tents; Uttakiyok's people had three more. Wind N. W. We were now near
the entrance into the Ikkerasak, (or straits), which separate the
island of Killinek and two or three other large islands from the
continent.

They stretch to the N. to the distance of about 12 or 15 English miles, the outer one forming
Cape Chudleigh.

To the N. W. of the cape lie some other small islands, called by the Esquimaux Tutsaets, and N. N.
E. of these, the great island Resolution, called Igloarsuk, on which, as we were informed, many Esquimaux
reside.

The Tutsaets were discernible from this place, but not the latter, which however, as the Esquimaux
say, may be seen from the Tutsaets. We guessed at its situation, from the clouds hanging over
it in the North quarter. The weather was, as might be expected on the northern coast of America,
foggy, rainy, and cold, and our small stove, which we brought into the tent, was of great use
to us during our stay in this place.

27th. Rain and wind violent, and prevented our proceeding. We caught some Pitsiolaks, (awks),
and a brace of young puffins, which, with the addition of some salt
meat, made excellent broth.

28th.
The weather was fair, but the wind still blowing hard at N. W. Brother Kmoch went to Uttakiyok's
tent, and sitting down with him at the point of Oppernavik, and looking down the coast as far
as Kakkeviak, got him to name all the bays, points, and islands, from Kakkeviak to Oppernavik,
of which he made minutes. The distance between the two points or headlands may be guessed at,
by the time of sailing with a strong leading wind, namely three hours
and a half.

Coming up from Kakkeviak, to the E. lie three islands, Kikkertorsoak, Imilialuk, rather less
in view, and Nessetservik. Having passed these, there follows a chain of small, naked islands,
not very high, stretching towards Killinek. To the W. near Kakkeviak lies Uglek; then a bay, Nulluk,
and farther to the left another bay, Tellek, (right arm). The country along these bays is called
Attanarsuk. Now follow the bay Ikkorliarsuk, the lower point of Tikkerarsuk, the bay Annivagtok,
and Kakkeviak, a high promontory, (not to be confounded with the other Kakkeviak, where we struck
on the rock. This promontory is only about four miles from Oppernavik to the S. E.). Then follow
two small bays, Anniovariktok and Sangmiyok, then the promontory Ukkuliakartok, (meaning a headland
between two bays), and the bay Tunnusuksoak. Next, the last point on the continent, forming
the south entrance to the Ikkerasak. The abovementioned chain of barren islands is called by
the Esquimaux Naviarutsit, and besides them some low rocks, Nuvurutsit. The island of Killinek
is about nine miles long, and five broad, high, and forming the north side of the straits. Another
Ikkerasak, (or strait), divides it from an island called Kikkertorsoak, (a common name for an
island), of considerable height, but not so long as Killinek: one, or perhaps more islands follow,
narrowing E. and W. and forming Cape Chudleigh.

To-day there was much ice both in the strait and at sea.

We went to the nearest island, where Brother Kohlmeister took an observation, and found our situation
to be 60° 16'.

30th. It blew a hard gale from the N. E., rained hard, and as the ice now began to enter our harbour,
we were busily engaged in keeping it off the boat.

31st. Imagining to-day that the straits would be free from ice, we resolved to attempt to pass
them, and set sail.

But it soon became evident, that there was still plenty of ice in the neighbourhood, and the
wind setting to the N. E. with fogs, we were obliged to return. Suspecting also that the easterly
wind would again drive the ice into our former harbour at Oppernavik, we ran into a short pass,
between that and a small island called Ammitok, where we anchored under shelter of the island.
The sequel proved, that we had for once acted with sound judgment and foresight, for our former
anchoring-ground was soon filled with ice; and during the night large flakes entered even into
our present place of refuge.

August 1st. At day break we found ourselves completely surrounded by floating ice, a strong
N. W. wind driving the large shoals from the W. side of the little pass in which we lay, with much
force towards us, insomuch that our boat was in the greatest danger of being crushed to pieces
by them. We were all day long hard at work with poles, boat-hooks, and hatchets, to ward off
the larger shoals, but when the tide fell, they hung upon our cables and anchors, of which
we had three out, closing in also on all sides of the boat, so that we were every moment in
fearful expectation of her being carried away, and our anchors lost, which would have reduced
us to the most distressing situation. Indeed we all cried to the Lord to help us in this dangerous
situation, and not to suffer us to perish here, but by His almighty aid, to save us and our
boat. With great and unremitting exertions we had laboured all day, from the morning early, till
seven in the evening, when the Lord heard our prayers, and sent relief. We now succeeded in
working the boat out of the ice, the rising of the tide having opened a passage through it, just
as we were almost exhausted with fatigue. It also became quite calm, and we felt as if we had passed
from death to life.

Having anchored again on the opposite side of the little pass or strait, we gave thanks to God,
for the deliverance we had experienced through His mercy, in which our Esquimaux, young and old,
most fervently joined.

During our stay at Oppernavik, our whole stock of fire-wood was expended, and we were obliged to purchase
of our companions, what they had to spare. We likewise robbed some old Esquimaux graves of the
wooden utensils, which it is the superstitious practice of the heathen to lay beside the corpses
of their owners, with old tent-poles,& c. and thus obtained fuel
sufficient for our cookery.

Wood
will not decay by mere exposure to the air in Labrador, but wastes away gradually; and after
forty or more years, the wood found at the graves is still fit for
use.

August 2d.-- Having made all needful preparations for the voyage, a gentle but favourable wind,
and occasional rowing, brought us, about nine in the morning, to the entrance of the much dreaded
Ikkerasak. The weather was pleasant and warm, not a flake of ice
was to be seen, and all our fear and anxiety had subsided.

Our minds were attuned to praise and thanksgiving for the providential preservation we had experienced
yesterday. We performed our morning devotions on deck, and all joined in a joyful hallelujah
to God our Saviour, which was sweetly repeated by echoes among the mountains and precipices on
either side. Deut. 32, 39. We rejoiced, that we were in the hands of a gracious and merciful
God and Father, who would not forsake us, but deal with us according to his wonted mercy and
favour.

The Ikkerasak, (or strait), is about ten miles in length; the land on each side high and rocky,
and in some places precipitous, but there appeared no rocks in the strait itself. The water
is deep and clear. Its mouth is wide, and soon after entering, a bay opens to the left, which by an
inlet only just wide enough to admit a boat, communicates with a lagoon of considerable magnitude,
in which lies an island on its western bank. Beyond this bay, the passage narrows and consequently
the stream, always setting from N. to S. grows more rapid. Here the mountains on both sides rise to
a great height. Having proceeded for two miles in a narrow channel, the strait opens again, but afterwards
contracts to about 1000 yards across; immediately beyond which, the left coast turns to the south.
As the tide ebbs regularly with the current from N. to S. along the whole coast of Labrador, the
current through the strait is most violent during its fall, and less, when resisted by its influx
on rising.

We were taught to expect much danger in passing certain eddies or whirlpools in the narrow
parts of the straits, and were therefore continually upon the look-out for them. When we passed
the first narrow channel, at 12 P. M. it being low water, no whirlpool was perceptible. Having
sailed on for little more than half an hour, with wind and tide in our favour, we reached the
second. Here, indeed, we discovered a whirlpool, but of no great magnitude at this state of the
tide. Near the north-shore the water was, indeed, whirled round in the manner of a boiling cauldron
of ten or twelve feet diameter, with considerable noise and much foam; but we passed without the
smallest inconvenience, within thirty or forty feet of the outer circle. Our skin-boat, however,
which we had in tow, with a man in it, was seized by the vortex, and received a rapid twist; but as
the towing-rope did not break, she was immediately rescued from danger by the swiftness of
our course, and the affair afforded us more diversion than anxiety. The motion of the water
in these eddies is so great, that they never freeze in the severest winter. The ice being
drawn towards them with great force, the largest shoals are carried under water, and thrown
up again, broken into numerous fragments. The Ikkerasak is at that season utterly impassable
for boats. The Killinek people inhabit an island to the right, after
leaving the strait.

When we quitted the Ikkerasak, and entered the ocean on the western side of Cape Chudleigh, it
seemed as if we were transported to a new world. Hitherto the coast to our left had always taken
a northerly direction. It now turned to the S. S. W. and is low, with gently sloping hills, the sea
being full of small islands, abounding in sea-fowl.

To the N. and N. W. we saw the open sea in Hudson's Straits, which, compared to the turbulent Atlantic,
seemed calm and peaceful. We sailed briskly amidst the islands, and overtook the inhabitants
of Saeglek, whom we had seen at Kakkeviak, where they had got the
start of us.

The wind being favourable, we did not hail them, but kept on our course. We now saw with pleasure
the Ungava country to the South before us, but had first to pass the low point of Uivarsuk, the bay
of Arvavik, in which the people from Saeglek had their summer stations, and the mountain Omanek,
of moderate height, and surrounded by many small islets, called by the Esquimaux Erngavinget,
(bowels). We now discovered three skin-boats full of people standing towards us from the shore.
They were inhabitants of Ungava, and welcomed our approach with loud shouts of joy and firing
their pieces, which was answered by our party. They followed us to Omanek, a round island rising
like a loaf among the rest, where they pitched their tents on shore.

Some of them had formerly dwelt in different places north of Okkak, and were known to the Missionaries
in former times, the rest were perfect strangers. They declared their intention of coming over
to the North of Okkak, to remain some time in that country, for the sake of trade. It has been mentioned,
that some of the Ungava people have come to Okkak, and carry on a trade between their countrymen
and that place. They are a kind of middle men, bring fox and bear-skins, and exchange them for European
goods. These they carry back, and sell at a very advanced price in the Ungava country. They spend
two years on such a trading voyage.

Brother Kohlmeister visited the people in their tents. They were about fifty in number, men,
women, and children. He informed them, that nothing could induce the Missionaries to come into
this country, but love to the poor heathen, and an ardent desire to make them acquainted with
their Creator and Redeemer, that through Him they might attain to happiness in time and eternity.
Some seemed to listen with great attention, but the greater part understood nothing of what was said.
This, of course, did not surprise us, as most of them were quite ignorant heathen, who had
never before seen an European. They, however, raised a shout of joy, when we informed them, that
we would come and visit them in their own country. Many were not satisfied with viewing us
on every side with marks of great astonishment, but came close up to us, and pawed us all
over.

At taking leave we presented them with a few trifles, which excited among them the greatest
pleasure and thankfulness.

We recommend these heathen to the mercy of God, and pray, that the day may soon dawn, when the
light of the saving gospel of Jesus may shine into their hearts.

3d. Several of them came on board, once more to see us, and, in their way, to express their regard
and gratitude. They also got some useful articles from our people, in exchange for their goods. We
now set sail, passed a point called Oglarvik, and the bay Takpangayok, and arrived at Tuktusiovik,
(a place where reindeer are seen), where we cast anchor for the night. Already at Omanek we
had discovered a great difference between the rise and fall of the tides there and about Killinek. In
the latter place it rose to four fathoms, but here still higher. The country looked pleasant,
with many berry-bearing plants and bushes. There was, likewise, plenty of drift-wood all along
the coast; not the large Greenland timber, but small trees and roots, evidently carried out
of the great rivers of the Ungava by the ice. We had, of course, fire-wood enough, without robbing
the graves of their superstitious furniture. Our Esquimaux pitched their tent on shore, and
we supped with them on a mess of seal's flesh and eider-ducks. The musquitoes were extremely
troublesome during our repast, after which we retired to sleep on
board the boat.

4th. Wind fair. We passed numerous low rocks; a point, by name unknown to Uttakiyok; the bay Ikpigitok,
two miles broad, and the cape called Uibvaksoak, the northern boundary of the great bay or gulf
of Abloriak. This cape is surrounded by many bare and sunken rocks, which caused us to stand out
pretty far to the westward. While we were off the point, we descried, at a very great distance
to the N. W. a large island, called by the Esquimaux Akpatok. They say, that it encloses the
whole bay or gulf towards the sea, and consists of high land: also, that it is connected with
the western continent at low water by an isthmus. The north coast of this island appears to be
the line laid down in maps and charts as the coast of America, to the south of Hudson's Straits.
But the district of Ungava is separated from the island by a large inland bay, extending southward
to the 58° N. L. North of Akpatok, the Esquimaux speak of islands well peopled by their countrymen,
who have never seen Europeans.

Having safely doubled the point or cape of Uibvaksoak, we came to an anchor near a small island
to the south, where we spent the night.

5th. Calm weather, and proceeded gently. About 9 A. M. the wind turned against us, and we ran
into a small bay, about five miles from our former anchoring-place. Here we found the Andromeda
tetragona growing in tolerable quantity, on the banks of a lagoon of fresh water. The face
of the country was unpleasant, with many steep rocks. On a precipice behind our tent we perceived
nests of birds of prey. The naked rocks had singular shapes, and presented to the imagination
the ruins of a destroyed town. In the vallies we saw many small lagoons, but little grass,
and the excrements of geese. It was about full moon, and the tide rising here five or six
fathom, occasioned the most strange alterations in the prospect towards the sea, which, being smooth
and clear of rocks at high water, exhibited, after its fall, an archipelago of rugged islands
and black flats.

August 6th.-- We crossed the bay Abloriak, which is large and wide, with many small islands and
rocks towards the sea, and high black mountains inland, called Torngaets. Uttakiyok, who was
always very eager to make us attentive to every object and its name, shewed us here a wide and deep
cavern, in shape like the gable end of an house, situated at the top of a precipice, in a black mountain,
of a very horrid and dark appearance.

This, he informed us, was the dwelling place of Torngak, the evil spirit. The scenery was, indeed,
extremely wild and terrible, and the beforementioned prospect of the rocks and islands at low
water gave to the whole country a most singularly gloomy character. Nor is this change, occasioned
by the tide in the state of the sea, merely in appearance terrific, it is so in reality: for we
never durst cast anchor in less than eight or nine fathoms water, lest at ebb-tide we should
find ourselves aground, or even high and dry.

The cavern just spoken of, connected with the chain of black mountains in which it is situated,
we called the Dragon's dwelling, but had no time to examine the place, though it did not appear
inaccessible. Whether Uttakiyok would have ventured to accompany us into it, is another question,
for he was, with all his good sense, strongly attached to the superstitious notions and ceremonies
of his countrymen. Thus, on passing dangerous places he always hung the claw of a raven to his
breast, and carried the blown paunch of a seal upon a tent-pole fixed to one side of his boat.
The latter is a common practice among the northern Esquimaux, and probably considered by them
all as a very efficient charm.

We passed Sioralik, and many small
and flat rocky islands: the bay Issorkitok, (a grassy place), a nameless
headland; and the larger bay Nappartolik, (a woody country). The wood
is said to commence at the interior point of this bay, and to continue
throughout the whole of the Ungava country, which, as we afterwards
discovered, extends to a considerable distance to the southward. Then
follows Tunnuyalik, a point, or perhaps an island, on which lies a
huge white stone, twenty or thirty feet high, by which it is distinguished
from other similar headlands. A chain of low, flat islands, runs out
into the sea to a considerable distance, and appearing at a distance
as continued land, they are mistaken for a cape. Farther on is the
bay Ittimnekoktok, where it grew dark before we found a suitable anchorage.
The wind was high, and some of our company went on shore in the skin-boat,
in order to pitch their tent, and spend the night.
(Hence the force of Paul's declaration, Gal. iv. 1, "Now I say unto you, that the heir, so
long as he is a child, DIFFERETH NOTHING FROM A SERVANT, though he be lord of all.") If this
were the hired class, the prodigal was a sorry specimen of humility. Would our Lord have put
such language upon the lips of one held up by himself, as a model of gospel humility, to illustrate
its deep sense of an ill-desert? If this is humility, put it on stilts, and set it a strutting,
while pride takes lessons, and blunders in apeing it.

Israelites and Strangers, belonged indiscriminately to each class of the servants, the bought
and the hired. That those in the former class, whether Jews or Strangers, rose to honors and
authority in the family circle, which were not conferred on hired servants, has been shown.
It should be added, however, that in the enjoyment of privileges, merely political, the hired
servants from the Israelites, were more favored than even the bought servants from the Strangers.
No one from the Strangers, however wealthy or highly endowed, was eligible to the highest office,
nor could he own the soil. This last disability seems to have been one reason for the different
periods of service required of the two classes of bought servants--the Israelites and the Strangers.
The Israelite was to serve six years--the Stranger until the jubilee. As the Strangers could
not own the soil, nor even houses, except within walled towns, most would attach themselves
to Israelitish families. Those who were wealthy, or skilled in manufactures, instead of becoming
servants would need servants for their own use, and as inducements for the Stranger's to become
servants to the Israelites, were greater than persons of their own nation could hold out to
them, these wealthy Strangers would naturally procure the poorer Israelites for servants. Lev.
xxv. 47. In a word, such was the political condition of the Strangers, that the Jewish polity
offered a virtual bounty, to such as would become permanent servants, and thus secure those
privileges already enumerated, and for their children in the second generation a permanent
inheritance. Ezek. xlvii. 21-23. None but the monied aristocracy would be likely to decline
such offers. On the other hand, the Israelites, owning all the soil, and an inheritance of
land being a sacred possession, to hold it free of incumbrance was with every Israelite, a
delicate point, both of family honor and personal character. 1 Kings xxi. 3. Hence, to forego
the control of one's inheritance, after the division of the paternal domain, or to be kept
out of it after having acceded to it, was a burden grievous to be borne. To mitigate as much
as possible such a calamity, the law released the Israelitish servant at the end of six years[A];
as, during that time--if of the first class--the partition of the patrimonial land might have
taken place; or, if of the second, enough money might have been earned to disencumber his estate,
and thus he might assume his station as a lord of the soil. If neither contingency had occurred,
then after another six years the opportunity was again offered, and so on, until the jubilee.
So while strong motives urged the Israelite to discontinue his service as soon as the exigency
had passed which made him a servant, every consideration impelled the Stranger to prolong his
term of service; and the same kindness which dictated the law of six years' service for the
Israelite, assigned as a general rule, a much longer period to the Gentile servant, who had
every inducement to protract the term. It should be borne in mind, that adult Jews ordinarily
became servants, only as a temporary expedient to relieve themselves from embarrassment, and
ceased to be such when that object was effected. The poverty that forced them to it was a calamity,
and their service was either a means of relief, or a measure of prevention; not pursued as
a permanent business, but resorted to on emergencies--a sort of episode in the main scope of
their lives. Whereas with the Strangers, it was a permanent employment, pursued both as a means
of bettering their own condition, and that of their posterity, and as an end for its own sake,
conferring on them privileges, and a social estimation not otherwise attainable.

[Footnote A: Another reason for protracting the service until the seventh year, seems to have
been the coincidence of that period with other arrangements, in the Jewish economy. Its pecuniary
responsibilities, social relations, and general internal structure, were graduated upon a septennial
scale. Besides as those Israelites who became servants through poverty, would not sell themselves,
till other expedients to recruit their finances had failed--(Lev. xxv. 35)--their becoming
servants proclaimed such a state of their affairs, as demanded the labor of a course of years
fully to reinstate them.]

We see from the foregoing, why servants purchased from the heathen, are called by way of distinction,
the servants, (not bondmen,) (1.) They followed it as a permanent business. (2.) Their term
of service was much longer than that of the other class. (3.) As a class they doubtless greatly
outnumbered the Israelitish servants. (4.) All the Strangers that dwelt in the land were tributaries,
required to pay an annual tax to the government, either in money, or in public service, (called
a "tribute of land-service;") in other words, all the Strangers were national servants to the
Israelites, and the same Hebrew word used to designate individual servants, equally designates
national servants or tributaries. 2 Sam. viii. 2, 6, 14. 2 Chron. viii. 7-9. Deut xx. 11. 2
Sam. x. 19. 1 Kings ix. 21, 22. 1 Kings iv. 21. Gen. xxvii. 29. The same word is applied to
the Israelites, when they paid tribute to other nations. 2 Kings xvii. 3. Judg. iii. 8, 14.
Gen. xlix. 15. Another distinction between the Jewish and Gentile bought servants, was in their
kinds of service. The servants from the Strangers were properly the domestics, or household
servants, employed in all family work, in offices of personal attendance, and in such mechanical
labor, as was required by increasing wants, and needed repairs. The Jewish bought servants
seem almost exclusively agricultural. Besides being better fitted for it by previous habits--agriculture,
and the tending of cattle, were regarded by the Israelites as the most honorable of all occupations.
After Saul was elected king, and escorted to Gibeah, the next report of him is, "And behold
Saul came after the herd out of the field." 1 Sam. xi. 7. Elisha "was plowing with twelve yoke
of oxen." 1 Kings xix. 19. King Uzziah "loved husbandry." 2 Chron. xxvi. 10. Gideon was "threshing
wheat" when called to lead the host against the Midianites. Judg. vi. 11. The superior honorableness
of agriculture, is shown, in that it was protected and supported by the fundamental law of
the theocracy--God indicating it as the chief prop of the government. The Israelites were like
permanent fixtures on their soil, so did they cling to it. To be agriculturalists on their
own inheritances, was with them the grand claim to honorable estimation. Agriculture being
pre-eminently a Jewish employment, to assign a native Israelite to other employments as a business,
was to break up his habits, do violence to cherished predilections, and put him to a kind of
labor in which he had no skill, and which he deemed degrading. In short, it was in the earlier
ages of the Mosaic system, practically to unjew him, a hardship and rigor grievous to be borne,
as it annihilated a visible distinction between the descendants of Abraham and the Strangers.--To
guard this and another fundamental distinction, God instituted the regulation which stands
at the head of this branch of our inquiry, "If thy brother that dwelleth by thee be waxen poor,
and be sold unto thee, thou shalt not compel him to serve as a bond-servant." In other words,
thou shalt not put him to servant's work--to the business, and into the condition of domestics.
In the Persian version it is translated thus, "Thou shalt not assign to him the work of servitude."
In the Septuagint, "He shall not serve thee with the service of a domestic." In the Syriac,
"Thou shalt not employ him after the manner of servants." In the Samaritan, "Thou shalt not
require him to serve in the service of a servant." In the Targum of Onkelos, "He shall not
serve thee with the service of a household servant." In the Targum of Jonathan, "Thou shalt
not cause him to serve according to the usages of the servitude of servants."[A] The meaning
of the passage is, thou shalt not assign him to the same grade, nor put him to the same service,
with permanent domestics. The remainder of the regulation is,--"But as an hired servant and
as a sojourner shall he be with thee." Hired servants were not incorporated into the families
of their masters: they still retained their own family organization, without the surrender
of any domestic privilege, honor, or authority; and this even though they resided under the
same roof with their master. While bought servants were associated with their master's families
at meals, at the Passover, and at other family festivals, hired servants and sojourners were
not. Ex. xii. 44, 45; Lev. xxii. 10, 11. Hired servants were not subject to the authority of
their masters in any such sense as the master's wife, children, and bought servants. Hence
the only form of oppressing hired servants spoken of in the Scriptures as practicable to masters,
is that of keeping back their wages. To have taken away such privileges in the case under consideration,
would have been pre-eminent "rigor," for it was not a servant born in the house of a master,
not a minor, whose minority had been sold by the father, neither was it one who had not yet
acceded to his inheritance: nor finally, one who had received the assignment of his inheritance,
but was working off from it an incumbrance, before entering upon its possession and control.
But it was that of the head of a family, who had known better days, now reduced to poverty,
forced to relinquish the loved inheritance of his fathers, with the competence and respectful
consideration its possession secured to him, and to be indebted to a neighbor for shelter,
sustenance, and employment. So sad a reverse, might well claim sympathy; but one consolation
cheers him in the house of his pilgrimage; he is an Israelite--Abraham is his father, and now
in his calamity he clings closer than ever, to the distinction conferred by his birth-right.
To rob him of this, were "the unkindest cut of all." To have assigned him to a grade of service
filled only by those whose permanent business was serving, would have been to "rule over him
with" peculiar "rigor." "Thou shalt not compel him to serve as a bond-servant," or literally,
thou shalt not serve thyself with him, with the service of a servant, guaranties his political
privileges, and a kind and grade of service, comporting with his character and relations as
an Israelite. And "as a hired servant, and as a sojourner shall he be with thee," secures to
him his family organization, the respect and authority due to its head, and the general consideration
resulting from such a station. Being already in possession of his inheritance, and the head
of a household, the law so arranged the conditions of his service as to alleviate as much as
possible the calamity, which had reduced him from independence and authority, to penury and
subjection. The import of the command which concludes this topic in the forty-third verse,
("Thou shalt not rule over him with rigor,") is manifestly this, you shall not disregard those
differences in previous associations, station, authority, and political privileges, upon which
this regulation is based; for to hold this class of servants irrespective of these distinctions,
and annihilating them, is to "rule with rigor." The same command is repeated in the forty-sixth
verse, and applied to the distinction between servants of Jewish, and those of Gentile extraction,
and forbids the overlooking of distinctive Jewish peculiarities, the disregard of which would
be rigorous in the extreme[B]. The construction commonly put upon the phrase "rule with rigor,"
and the inference drawn from it, have an air vastly oracular. It is interpreted to mean, "you
shall not make him a chattel, and strip him of legal protection, nor force him to work without
pay." The inference is like unto it, viz., since the command forbade such outrages upon the
Israelites, it permitted and commissioned their infliction upon the Strangers. Such impious
and shallow smattering captivates scoffers and libertines; its flippancy and blasphemy, and
the strong scent of its loose-reined license works like a charm upon them. This operation, as
well as the others, should take place in the dark closet.

[Updater's note: hipho26. gif and hipho27. gif are both captioned
Figure 27.] Sometimes, to prevent the necessity of raising the plate,
an additional cover or top is made use of.

It consists of a box fitted closely to the inner rim of the bath, and having an inclined top (a, Fig.
27.) The top is cut through and fitted with frames for each size of plate, like those already
described, and in the back is a piece of glass (b,) through which to view the progress of mercurialization,
and an additional piece (c,) on one side, colored yellow, to admit
the light. The outline only of the top is here given, in order to
show every portion of it at one view.

The picture, being fully developed, is now taken out and examined;
it must not, however, be exposed to too strong a light.

If
any glaring defects be perceived, it is better not to proceed with it, but place it on one side
to be re-polished; if, on the contrary, it appears perfect, you may advance to the FIFTH OPERATION.--
Fixing the Image so that the light can no longer act upon it.-- The following articles are required
for this purpose: Two or three porcelain or glass dishes, in form,
something like fig. 24.

A plate support, fig. 25. Few, I believe, now make use of this, although it is a very convenient
article. Hyposulphite of Soda, A pair of Plyers.

In Europe, they also use a drying apparatus, Fig. 27, but this, like
the plate support, is a matter of little consequence, and may be dispensed
with.

I will, however, describe it, for the benefit of those who may wish to use it. It must be kept perfectly
clean.

Hot distilled water is poured into it, and the temperature kept up
by a spirit lamp.

Hyposulphite of Soda.-- Having made a solution of hyposulphite of
soda, and well filtered it-- the strength is immaterial; about half
an ounce of the salt to a pint of distilled water is sufficient--
pour it into one of the porcelain dishes, put into another plain,
and into a third distilled water.

Immerse the plate with its face downwards into the hyposulphite, and the whole of the sensitive is
removed, and the light has no farther action upon it; it is then to be removed from the hyposulphite
and plunged into the plain water, or placed upon the support, fig. 25, and the water poured
over it.

It is then washed in a similar manner with the distilled water and well examined, to see that not
the slightest particle of dust rests on the surface. The next step is to dry it. This may be readily accomplished
by holding the plate with your plyers, and pouring distilled water over it-- if it is hot, so
much the better. Apply the spirit lamp to the back, at the corner held by the plyers, at the same
time facilitating the operation with the breath; pass the lamp gradually downwards, finishing at the extreme
corner. The last drop may now be removed by a little bibulous paper. A single drop, even, of distilled
water allowed to dry on any part of the surface, is certain to leave a stain which no after
process can remove.

To illustrate the necessity for having perfectly clean water, and free
from all foreign matter-- only to be avoided by using that which
is distilled-- in these processes, I will relate a little anecdote.

An operator in this city (New York) frequently made complaint to me, that his plates were occasionally
very bad; coming out all over in little black and white spots and spoiling many very good
pictures, regretting at the same time that perfect plates were not made, for he had lost many
customers in consequence of these defects. These complaints being somewhat periodical, I suggested
that the fault might be in the hyposulphite, or chloride of gold
solutions, or particles of dust floating about in the room, and not
in the plate.

A few days after he stated, that his plates having served him again in the same way, he procured a fresh
supply of hyposulphite of soda and chloride of gold, but after applying
them the result was no better.

He
then, by my advice, thoroughly cleaned his wash dishes, bottles and water pail, made fresh solutions
and had no further trouble, becoming satisfied that the plates suffered
an undue share of censure. SIXTH PROCESS.-- Gilding the Picture.--
This is an improvement the honor of which is due to M. Figeau, and may take
place either before the drying process, or at any subsequent period;
but it improves the picture so materially that it should never be
neglected.

The articles necessary for gilding are-- A Pair of Plyers; or a Gilding Stand (see fig. 19) and Chloride
of Gold; or Hyposulphite of Gold. The latter is imported by Mr. E. Anthony, 205 Broadway,
New York, and is decidedly the best article for the purpose.

One bottle simply dissolved in a quart of water will make a very strong solution, and gives a richness
to the picture impossible to be obtained from the chloride of gold. The process is precisely similar
to that described below for chloride of gold, taking care to cease the moment the bubbles are
well defined over the surface of the plate. Many Daguerreotypists, after a superficial trial,
discard the hyposulphite of gold as inferior; but I have no hesitation
in asserting that the fault lies with themselves; for in every case
within my knowledge, where its use has been persisted in until the
correct method has been ascertained and the nature of the gilding
has become familiar, it is always preferred.

In illustration of this fact I will relate an anecdote: A gentleman to whom it had been recommended,
purchased a bottle, and after making one or two trials of it, wrote to his correspondent-- "Send
me two bottles of chloride of gold, for I want no more of the hyposulphite; it is good for nothing."
A few weeks after he sent for three bottles of the condemned article,
confessing that he had found fault unnecessarily; for, that since
he had become familiar to its use, he must acknowledge its superiority,
and would use no other gilding.

The Solution of Chloride of Gold is prepared by dissolving in a pint
of distilled water, fifteen grains of chrystalized chloride of gold.

This
solution will be of a yellow tint. In another pint of distilled water dissolve fifty-five grains
of hyposulphite of soda; pour gradually, in very small quantities, the gold into the hyposulphite
of soda, stirring the solution at intervals; when finished the mixture should be nearly colorless.
Place the plate on its stand, or hold it in the plyers, in a perfectly horizontal position-- silver
surface upward-- having previously slightly turned up the edges, so that it may hold the solution.
Wet the surface with alcohol, letting any superfluous quantity drain off. The alcohol is of no farther
use than to facilitate the flowing of the gold mixture over the surface. Now pour on, carefully,
as much of the preparation of gold as will remain on the plate. The under part of the plate is then
to be heated as uniformly as possible with the spirit lamp; small bubbles will arise, and the appearance
of the portrait or view very sensibly improved.

The process must not be carried too far, but as soon as the bubbles disappear the lamp should be removed,
and the plate immersed in distilled water, and dried as before directed. 7th. COLORING THE PICTURE.--
I very much doubt the propriety of coloring the daguerreotypes, as I am of opinion, that
they are little, if any, improved by the operation, at least as it is now generally practised.
There are several things requisite in an artist to enable him to
color a head, or even a landscape effectively, and correctly, and
I must say that very few of these are possessed by our operators as
a class.

These
requirements are, a talent for drawing-- taste-- due discrimination of effect-- strict observance
of the characteristic points in the features of the subject-- quick perception of the beautiful,
and a knowledge of the art of mixing colors, and blending tints. The method now pursued, I do not hesitate
to say, and have no fears of being contradicted by those capable of critisizing is on the whole
ruinous to any daguerreotype, and to a perfect one absolutely disgusting.

The day may come when accurate coloring may be obtained in the camera. Until that day, if we cannot
lead taste into the right channel, we will endeavor to give such instructions that Daguerreotypists
may proceed with this part of his work with a better understanding of the principles involved.
For this purpose I have prepared a short chapter on the art of coloring, which may be found
in the latter part of this volume. To Preserve Daguerreotypes they must be well sealed and secured
in a case, or frame. These, of course, are selected according to the taste of the customer, the principal
requisite being good glass. Most Daguerreotypists prefer the white French plate glass-- and
many think, very erroneously, that none is good unless it is thick-- but the great desideratum
is clearness and freedom from blisters; even glass a little tinged
with green or yellow is to be preferred to the French plate when cloudy
or blistered and there is very little of it comes to this market that
is not so.

It is to be hoped that some of our glass factories will manage to manufacture an article expressly
for daguerreotypes; and I would recommend them to do so, for they would find it quite an item of
profit annually.

Before enclosing the picture in the case you should be careful to wipe the glass perfectly clean,
and blow from the picture any particles of dust which may have fallen upon it. Then take strips
of sticking paper, about half or three quarters of an inch wide, and firmly and neatly secure it to the
glass, having first placed a "mat" between them to prevent the plate being scratched by the
glass.

TO MAKE SEALING PAPER.-- Dissolve one ounce of gum arabic, and a quarter of an ounce of gum
tragicanth in a pint of water; then add a teaspoonful of benzoin. Spread this evenly on one side of good stout
tissue paper; let it dry, and then cut it up in stripes, about half or three quarters of an inch wide,
for use. If it becomes too soft for summer use, add gum arabic; if too hard and cracking, add
benzoin or gum tragicanth; if it gets too thick, add water. COLORED DAGUERREOTYPES ON COPPER.--
To effect this, take a polished plate of copper and expose it to the vapor of iodine, or bromine,
or the two substances combined; or either of them in combination
with chlorine.

This gives a sensitive coating to the surface of the plate, which may then be submitted to the action
of light in the camera. After remaining a sufficient time in the camera, the plate is taken out
and exposed to the vapor of sulphuretted hydrogen. This vapor produces various colors on the
plate, according to the intensity with which the light has acted on the different parts; consequently a
colored photographic picture is obtained. No further process is necessary as exposure to light does
not effect the picture. By this process we have an advantage over the silvered plate, both in
economy, and in the production of the picture in colors. INSTANTANEOUS PICTURES BY MEANS OF GALVANISM.-- It
will be seen by the following valuable communication that galvanism
can be successfully applied in producing pictures instantly; a process
of great importance in securing the likeness of a child, or in taking
views of animated nature.

Colonel
Whitney informs me that he once took a view of the steeple of the St. Louis Court House after sundown
by this means, and also secured the image of a man in the act of stepping into a store, and before
he had time to place his foot, raised for that purpose, on the door step. Mr. Whitney is well known as the
talented editor of the Sunday Morning news. New York, January 16,
1849. Mr. H. H. SNELLING.

Dear Sir,-- As you are about publishing a history of the Daguerreotype, and request a description of
my mode of taking pictures instantaneously by the aid of galvanism, I comply with great pleasure. In
the year 1841, while practicing the art in St. Louis, Mo., I was at times, during the summer,
much troubled with the electric influence of the atmosphere, especially on the approach of
a thunder-storm.

At such times I found the coating of my plates much more sensitive than when the atmosphere was
comparatively free from the electric fluid, and the effect was so irregular that no calculation
could counteract the difficulty. This satisfied me that electricity was in some measure an important
agent in the chemical process, and it occurred to me that the element might be turned to advantage. I determined,
therefore, to enter on a series of experiments to test my theory. Finding it impossible to obtain an
electric machine, and unwilling to abandon the examination, it occurred to me, that the galvanic
influence might answer the same purpose. I therefore proceeded to make a galvanic battery in the following
simple manner.

I obtained a piece of zinc about two inches long, one inch wide, and an eighth of an inch thick. On
this I soldered a narrow strip of copper, about six inches long,
the soldered end laid on one side of the zinc, and extending its whole
length.

The battery was completed by placing the zinc in a glass tumbler, two-thirds full of dilute sulphuric
acid, strong enough to produce a free action of the metals. The upper end of the copper slip extending above
the tumbler was sharpened to a point, and bent a little over the glass. The method of using,
was thus:-- After preparing the plate in the usual manner and placing it in the camera, in such
manner as to expose the back of the plate to view, the battery was prepared by placing the
zinc in the acid, and as soon as the galvanic fluid began to traverse (as could be known by
the effervescence of the acid, operating on the zinc and copper)
the cap of the camera was removed, and the plate exposed to the sitter;
at the same instant the point of the battery was brought quickly against
the back of the plate, and the cap replaced instantly.

If the plate is exposed more than an instant after the contact the
picture will generally be found solarized.

By this process I have taken pictures of persons in the act of walking, and in taking the pictures
of infants and young children I found it very useful. Very respectfully yours, THOMAS R. WHITNEY.
CHAP.

VII PAPER DAGUERREOTYPES.-- ETCHING DAGUERREOTYPES. Mr. Hunt describes a process, discovered by
himself by which the Daguerrean art may be applied to paper. His description is as follows:-- "Placing the
paper on some hard body, wash it over on one side-- by means of a very soft camel's hair pencil--
with a solution of sixty grains of bromide of potassium, in two fluid ounces of distilled water,
and then dry it quickly by the fire. Being dry, it is again washed over with the same solution, and
dried as before. A solution of nitrate of silver-- one hundred grains to an ounce of distilled water--
is to be applied over the same surface, and the paper quickly dried in the dark. In this state the papers
may be kept for use." When they are required, the above solution of silver is to be plentifully
applied, and the paper placed wet in the camera, the greatest care being taken that no day light--
not even the faintest gleam-- falls upon it until the moment when you are prepared, by removing
the dark slide, to permit the light, radiating from the object you wish to copy, to act in producing
the picture. After a few seconds the light must be again shut off, and the camera removed into
a dark room. "The necessity of removing the camera is now avoided by the use of the dark slide,
already described, covering the picture in the holder, which alone may be removed.-- Amer. Aut."
It will be found by taking the paper from the holder, that there
is but a very faint outline-- if any-- yet visible.

Place
it aside, in perfect darkness until quite dry; then place it in the mercurial vapor box (meaning bath)
and apply a very gentle heat to the bottom. The moment the mercury vaporizes, the picture will
begin to develope itself. The spirit lamp must now be removed for a short time, and when the
action of the mercury appears to cease, it is to be very carefully applied again, until a well defined
picture is visible. The vaporization must then be suddenly stopped, and the photograph removed
from the box. The drawing will then be very beautiful and distinct; but much detail is still clouded,
for the developement of which it is only necessary to place it in the dark and suffer it to remain undisturbed
for some hours. There is now an inexpressible charm about the pictures, equaling the delicate
beauty of the daguerreotype; but being very susceptible of change,
it must be viewed by the light of a taper only.

The nitrate of silver must now be removed from the paper, by well
washing it in soft water, to which a small quantity of salt has been
added, and it should afterwards be soaked in water only.

When the picture has been dried, wash it quickly over with a soft
brush dipped in a warm solution of hyposulphite of soda, and then
wash it for some time in distilled water, in order that all the hyposulphite
may be removed.

The drawing is now fixed and we may use it to procure positive copies,
(the original being termed a negative,) many of which may be taken
from one original.

"" The action of light on this preparation, does indeed appear to be instantaneous. The exquisite
delicacy of this preparation may be imagined, when I state that in
five seconds in the camera, I have, during sunshine, obtained perfect
pictures, and that when the sky is overcast, one minute is quite sufficient
to produce a most decided effect.

"" This very beautiful process is not without its difficulties; and the author cannot promise that,
even with the closest attention to the above directions, annoying failures will not occur. It
often happens that some accidental circumstance-- generally a projecting film or a little dust--
will occasion the mercurial vapor to act with great energy on one part of the paper, and blacken
it before the other portions are at all effected. Again, the mercury will sometimes accumulate along
the lines made by the brush, and give a streaky appearance to the
picture, although these lines are not at all evident before the mercurial
vapor was applied.

(A brush sufficiently large-- and they may be easily obtained-- will, in a measure, prevent
this difficulty.-- Amer Au.) I have stated that the paper should be placed wet in the camera; the same
paper may be used dry, which often is a great convenience. When in the dry state a little longer exposure
is required; and instead of taking a picture in four or five seconds, two or three minutes are
necessary. "The durability of daguerreotypes has been, and is still, doubted by many, but experiment
has proved that they are more permanent than oil paintings or engravings. ETCHING DAGUERREOTYPES.--
There are several methods of accomplishing this object; discovered
and applied by different individuals.

The first process was published at Vienna by Dr. Berres, and consisted in covering the plate with
the mucilage of gum arabic, and then immersing the plate in nitric acid of different strengths.
Mr. Figeau, of whom I have already spoken, likewise discovered a process for the engraving of Daguerreotypes;
and founded on the belief that the lights of a Daguerreotype plate consists of unaltered
silver, while the dark or shadows consists of mercury or an amalgam of mercury with silver. He finds that
a compound acid, consisting of a mixture of nitric, nitrous, and muriatic acids, or of nitric mixed
with nitrate of potass and common salt, has the property of attaching
the silver in presence of the mercury without acting upon the latter.
Bi-chloride of copper answers the purpose also, but less completely. The 15th verse
restricts this lenient treatment to the inhabitants of the cities afar off. The 16th directs
as to the disposal of the inhabitants of Canaanitish cities. They were to save alive "nothing
that breathed." The common mistake has been, in supposing that the command in the 15th verse
refers to the whole system of directions preceding, commencing with the 10th, whereas it manifestly
refers only to the inflictions specified in the 12th, 13th, and 14th, making a distinction
between those Canaanitish cities that fought, and the cities afar off that fought--in one case
destroying the males and females, and in the other, the males only. The offer of peace, and
the conditional preservation, were as really guarantied to Canaanitish cities as to others.
Their inhabitants were not to be exterminated unless they came out against Israel in battle.
But let us settle this question by the "law and the testimony." For it was of the Lord to harden
their hearts, that they should COME OUT AGAINST ISRAEL IN BATTLE, that he might destroy them
utterly, and that they might have no favor, but that he might destroy them, as the Lord commanded
Moses." Josh. xix. 19, 20. That is, if they had not come out against Israel in battle, they
would have had "favor" shown them, and would not have been "destroyed utterly." The great design
was to transfer the territory of the Canaanites to the Israelites, and along with it, absolute
sovereignty in every respect; to annihilate their political organizations, civil polity, and
jurisprudence and their system of religion, with all its rights and appendages; and to substitute
therefor, a pure theocracy, administered by Jehovah, with the Israelites as His representatives
and agents. In a word the people were to be denationalized, their political existence annihilated,
their idol temples, altars, images groves and heathen rites destroyed, and themselves put under
tribute. Those who resisted the execution of Jehovah's purpose were to be killed, while those
who quietly submitted to it were to be spared. All had the choice of these alternatives, either
free egress out of the land[C]; or acquiescence in the decree, with life and residence as tributaries,
under the protection of the government; or resistance to the execution of the decree, with death.

[Footnote A: Perhaps it will be objected, that the preservation of the Gibeonites, and of Rahab
and her kindred, was a violation of the command of God. We answer, if it had been, we might
expect some such intimation. If God had strictly commanded them to exterminate all the Canaanites,
their pledge to save themselves was neither a repeal of the statute, nor absolution for the
breach of it. If unconditional destruction was the import of the command, would God have permitted
such an act to pass without rebuke? Would he have established such a precedent when Israel
had hardly passed the threshold of Canaan, and was then striking the first blow of a half century
war? What if they had passed their word to Rahab and the Gibeonites? Was that more binding
than God's command? So Saul seems to have passed his word to Agag; yet Samuel hewed him in
pieces, because in saving his life, Saul had violated God's command. When Saul sought to slay
the Gibeonites in "his zeal for the children of Israel and Judah," God sent upon Israel three
years famine for it. When David inquired of them what atonement he should make, they say, "The
man that devised against us, that we should be destroyed from remaining in any of the coasts
of Israel, let seven of his sons be delivered," &c. 2 Sam. xxii. 1-6.]

[Footnote B: If the Canaanites were devoted by God to unconditional extermination, to have
employed them in the erection of the temple,--what was it but the climax of impiety? As well
might they pollute its altars with swine's flesh, or make their sons pass through the fire
to Moloch.]

[Footnote C: Suppose all the Canaanitish nations had abandoned their territory at the tidings
of Israel's approach, did God's command require the Israelites to chase them to the ends of
the earth and hunt them out, until every Canaanite was destroyed? It is too preposterous for
belief and yet it follows legitimately from that construction, which interprets the terms "consume,"
"destroy," "destroy utterly," &c. to mean unconditional, individual extermination.]

[The original design of the preceding Inquiry embraced a much wider range of topics. It was
soon found, however, that to fill up the outline would be to make a volume. Much of the foregoing
has therefore been thrown into a mere series of indices, to trains of thought and classes of
proof which, however limited or imperfect, may perhaps, afford some facilities to those who
have little leisure for protracted investigation.]

THE

ANTI-SLAVERY EXAMINER  NO 4.

THE

BIBLE AGAINST SLAVERY.

AN INQUIRY INTO THE

PATRIARCHAL AND MOSAIC SYSTEMS

ON THE SUBJECT OF

HUMAN RIGHTS.

Fourth Edition--Enlarged.

This No. contains 7 sheets:--Postage, under 100 miles, 10 1/2 cents; over 100 miles, 14 cents.

Please read and Circulate.

CONTENTS.

    DEFINITION OF SLAVERY,

        NEGATIVE,

        AFFIRMATIVE,

        LEGAL,

    THE MORAL LAW AGAINST SLAVERY

        "THOU SHALT NOT STEAL,"

        "THOU SHALT NOT COVET,"

    MAN-STEALING--EXAMINATION OF EX. xxi. 16,

        SEPARATION OF MAN FROM BRUTES AND THINGS,

    IMPORT OF "BUY" AND "BOUGHT WITH MONEY,"

        SERVANTS SOLD THEMSELVES,

    RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES SECURED BY LAW TO SERVANTS,

    SERVANTS WERE VOLUNTARY,

        RUNAWAY SERVANTS NOT TO BE DELIVERED TO THEIR MASTERS,

    SERVANTS WERE PAID WAGES,

    MASTERS NOT "OWNERS,"

        SERVANTS NOT SUBJECTED TO THE USES OF PROPERTY,

        SERVANTS EXPRESSLY DISTINGUISHED FROM PROPERTY,

        EXAMINATION OF GEN. xii. 5.--"THE SOULS THAT THEY HAD
        GOTTEN," &c.

        SOCIAL EQUALITY OF SERVANTS AND MASTERS,

        CONDITION OF THE GIBEONITES AS SUBJECTS OF THE HEBREW
        COMMONWEALTH,

        EGYPTIAN BONDAGE CONTRASTED WITH AMERICAN SLAVERY,

        CONDITION OF AMERICAN SLAVES,

        ILL FED,

        ILL CLOTHED,

        OVER-WORKED,

        THEIR DWELLING UNFIT FOR HUMAN BEINGS,

        MORAL CONDITION--"HEATHENS,"

    OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED.

    "CURSED BE CANAAN," &c.--EXAMINATION OF GEN. ix. 25,

    "FOR HE IS HIS MONEY," &c.--EXAMINATION OF EX. xxi. 20, 21,

    EXAMINATION OF LEV. xxv. 44-46,

        "BOTH THY BONDMEN, &c., SHALL BE OF THE HEATHEN,"

        "OF THEM SHALL YE BUY,"

        "THEY SHALL BE YOUR BONDMEN FOREVER,"

        "YE SHALL TAKE THEM AS AN INHERITANCE," &c.

    EXAMINATION OF LEV. xxv. 39, 40.--THE FREEHOLDER NOT TO "SERVE
    AS A BOND SERVANT,"

        DIFFERENCE BETWEEN HIRED AND BOUGHT SERVANTS,

        BOUGHT SERVANTS THE MOST FAVORED AND HONORED CLASS,

        ISRAELITES AND STRANGERS BELONGED TO BOTH CLASSES,

        ISRAELITES SERVANTS TO THE STRANGERS,

        REASONS FOR THE RELEASE OF THE ISRAELITISH SERVANTS IN
        THE SEVENTH YEAR,

        REASONS FOR ASSIGNING THE STRANGERS TO A LONGER SERVICE,

        REASONS FOR CALLING THEM THE SERVANTS,

        DIFFERENT KINDS OF SERVICE ASSIGNED TO THE ISRAELITES
        AND STRANGERS,

    REVIEW OF ALL THE CLASSES OF SERVANTS WITH THE MODIFICATIONS OF
    EACH,

        POLITICAL DISABILITIES OF THE STRANGERS,

    EXAMINATION OF EX. xxi. 2-6.--"IF THOU BUY AN HEBREW SERVANT,"

    THE CANAANITES NOT SENTENCED TO UNCONDITIONAL EXTERMINATION,

THE BIBLE AGAINST SLAVERY.

The spirit of slavery never seeks refuge in the Bible of its own accord. The horns of the altar
are its last resort--seized only in desperation, as it rushes from the terror of the avenger's
arm. Like other unclean spirits, it "hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest its
deeds should be reproved." Goaded to phrenzy in its conflicts with conscience and common sense,
denied all quarter, and hunted from every covert, it vaults over the sacred inclosure and courses
up and down the Bible, "seeking rest, and finding none." THE LAW OF LOVE, glowing on every
page, flashes around it an omnipresent anguish and despair. It shrinks from the hated light,
and howls under the consuming touch, as demons quailed before the Son of God, and shrieked,
"Torment us not." At last, it slinks away under the types of the Mosaic system, and seeks to
burrow out of sight among their shadows. Vain hope! Its asylum is its sepulchre; its city of
refuge, the city of destruction. It flies from light into the sun; from heat, into devouring
fire; and from the voice of God into the thickest of His thunders.

DEFINITION OF SLAVERY.

If we would know whether the Bible sanctions slavery, we must determine what slavery is. An
element, is one thing; a relation, another; an appendage, another. Relations and appendages
presuppose other things to which they belong. To regard them as the things themselves, or as
constituent parts of them, leads to endless fallacies. Mere political disabilities are often
confounded with slavery; so are many relations, and tenures, indispensible to the social state.
We will specify some of these.

1. PRIVATION OF SUFFRAGE. Then minors are slaves.

2. INELIGIBILITY TO OFFICE. Then females are slaves.

3. TAXATION WITHOUT REPRESENTATION. Then slaveholders in the District of Columbia are slaves.

4. PRIVATION OF ONE'S OATH IN LAW. Then atheists are slaves.

5. PRIVATION OF TRIAL BY JURY. Then all in France are slaves.

6. BEING REQUIRED TO SUPPORT A PARTICULAR RELIGION. Then the people of England are slaves.

7. APPRENTICESHIP. The rights and duties of master and apprentice are correlative. The claim
of each upon the other results from his obligation to the other. Apprenticeship is based on
the principle of equivalent for value received. The rights of the apprentice are secured, equally
with those of the master. Indeed while the law is just to the former it is benevolent to the
latter; its main design being rather to benefit the apprentice than the master. To the master
it secures a mere compensation--to the apprentice, both a compensation and a virtual gratuity
in addition, he being of the two the greatest gainer. The law not only recognizes the right
of the apprentice to a reward for his labor, but appoints the wages, and enforces the payment.
The master's claim covers only the services of the apprentice. The apprentice's claim covers
equally the services of the master. Neither can hold the other as property; but each holds
property in the services of the other, and BOTH EQUALLY. Is this slavery?

8. FILIAL SUBORDINATION AND PARENTAL CLAIMS. Both are nature's dictates, and intrinsic elements
of the social state; the natural affections which blend parent and child in one, excite each
to discharge those offices incidental to the relation, and are a shield for mutual protection.
The parent's legal claim to the child's services, is a slight return for the care and toil
of his rearing, exclusively of outlays for support and education. This provision is, with the
mass of mankind, indispensable to the preservation of the family state. The child, in helping
his parents, helps himself--increases a common stock, in which he has a share; while his most
faithful services do but acknowledge a debt that money cannot cancel.

9. CLAIMS OF GOVERNMENT ON SUBJECTS. Governments owe their subjects protection; subjects owe
just governments allegiance and support. The obligations of both are reciprocal, and the benefits
received by both are mutual, equal, and voluntarily rendered.

10. BONDAGE FOR CRIME. Must innocence be punished because guilt suffers penalties? True, the
criminal works for the government without pay; and well he may. He owes the government. A century's
work would not pay its drafts on him. He will die a public defaulter. Because laws make men
pay their debts, shall those be forced to pay who owe nothing? The law makes no criminal, PROPERTY.
It restrains his liberty, and makes him pay something, a mere penny in the pound, of his debt
to the government; but it does not make him a chattel. Test it. To own property, is to own
its product. Are children born of convicts, government property? Besides, can property be guilty?
Can chattels deserve punishment?

11. RESTRAINTS UPON FREEDOM. Children are restrained by parents, pupils, by teachers, patients,
by physicians, corporations, by charters, and legislatures, by constitutions. Embargoes, tariffs,
quarantine, and all other laws, keep men from doing as they please. Restraints are the web
of civilized society, warp and woof. Are they slavery? then a government of LAW, is the climax
of slavery!

12. INVOLUNTARY OR COMPULSORY SERVICE. A juryman is empannelled against his will, and sit he
must. A sheriff orders his posse; bystanders must turn in. Men are compelled to remove nuisances,
pay fines and taxes, support their families, and "turn to the right as the law directs," however
much against their wills. Are they therefore slaves? To confound slavery with involuntary service
is absurd. Slavery is a condition. The slave's feelings toward it cannot alter its nature.
Whether he desires or detests it, the condition remains the same. The slave's willingness to
be a slave is no palliation of the slaveholder's guilt. Suppose he should really believe himself
a chattel, and consent to be so regarded by others, would that make him a chattel, or make
those guiltless who hold him as such? I may be sick of life, and I tell the assassin so that
stabs me; is he any the less a murderer? Does my consent to his crime, atone for it? my partnership
in his guilt, blot out his part of it? The slave's willingness to be a slave, so far from lessening
the guilt of his "owner," aggravates it. If slavery has so palsied his mind that he looks upon
himself as a chattel, and consents to be one, actually to hold him as such, falls in with his
delusion, and confirms the impious falsehood. These very feelings and convictions of the slave,
(if such were possible) increase a hundred fold the guilt of the master, and call upon him
in thunder, immediately to recognize him as a MAN, and thus break the sorcery that cheats him
out of his birthright--the consciousness of his worth and destiny. 

Muriate of cobalt is of a pale pink color; a very slight heat, by removing a little moisture, changes
it to a green.

These are a few instances selected from many which might be given.

If we receive a prismatic spectrum on some papers, we have evidence that the molecular or chemical
disturbance bears some relation to the color of each ray, or, in other words, that colored
light so modifies the action of ENERGIA that the impression it makes is in proportion to the color
of the light it accompanies, and hence there results a molecular arrangement capable of reflecting
colors differently. Some instances have been given in which the rays impressed correspond
with the colors of the luminous rays in a very remarkable manner.* One of the most decided cases
is that of the paper prepared with the fluoride of soda and nitrate of silver. Sir John Herschel
was, however, the first to obtain any good specimens of photographically impressed prismatic
colorations.* See Mr. Hunt's "Researches on Light."

It was noticed by Daguerre that a red house gave a reddish image
on his iodized silver plate in the camera obscura; and Mr. Talbot
observed, very early in his researches, that the red of a colored
print was copied of a red color, on paper spread with the chloride
of silver.**** In 1842, I had shown me a picture of a house in the
Bowery, which had been repaired a few days previous, and in the wall
a red brick left.

This brick was brought out on the Daguerreotype plate of precisely the same color as the brick
itself. The same artist also exhibited to me, the full length portrait of a gentleman who were a pair
of pantaloons having a blue striped figure.

This blue stripe was fully brought out, of the same color, in the picture.-- AMER. ED. "In 1840
I communicated to Sir John Herschel some very curious results obtained
by the use of colored media, which he did me the honor of publishing
in one of his memoirs on the subject from which I again copy it."

"A paper prepared with muriate of barytes and nitrate of silver, allowed to darken whilst wet in the sunshine
to a chocolate color, was placed under a frame containing a red, a yellow, a green, and a blue
glass. After a week's exposure to diffused light, it became red under the red glass, a dirty yellow
under the yellow glass, a dark green under the green, and a light
olive under the blue."

The above paper washed with a solution of salt of iodine, is very sensitive to light, and
gives a beautiful picture. A picture thus taken was placed beneath the above glasses, and another
beneath four flat bottles containing colored fluids.

In a few days, under the red glass and fluid, the picture became a dark blue, under the yellow
a light blue, under the green it remained unchanged, whilst under the blue it became a rose
red, which in about three weeks changed into green. Many other experiments of a similar nature
have been tried since that time with like results. "In the summer
of 1843, when engaged in some experiments on papers prepared according
to the principles of Mr. Talbot's calotype, I had placed in a camera
obscura a paper prepared with the bromide of silver and gallic acid.

The camera embraced a picture of a clear blue sky, stucco-fronted houses, and a green field. The
paper was unavoidably exposed for a longer period than was intended--
about fifteen minutes,-- a very beautiful picture was impressed, which,
when held between the eye and the light, exhibited a curious order
of colors.

The sky was of a crimson hue, the houses of a slaty blue, and the green fields of a brick red tint.
Surely these results appear to encourage the hope, that we may eventually arrive at a process
by which external nature may be made to impress its images on prepared surfaces, in all the
beauty of their native coloration." PHOTOGRAPHIC DEVIATIONS. Before taking leave of the subject of photogenic
drawing, I must mention one or two facts, which may be of essential
service to operators.

It has been observed by Daguerre, and others, in Europe, and probably
by some of our own artists, that the sun two hours after it has passed
the meridian, is much less effective in the photographic process, than
it is two hours previous to its having reached that point.

This may depend upon an absorptive power of the air, which may reasonably be supposed to be more charged
with vapor two hours before noon. The fuse of the hygrometer may possibly
establish the truth or falsity of this supposition. The fact, however,
of a better result being produced before noon being established,
persons wishing their portraits taken, will see the advantage of obtaining
an early sitting, if they wish good pictures.

On the other hand, if the supposition above mentioned prove true, a too early sitting must be
avoided. If we take a considerable thickness of a dense purple fluid, as, for instance, a solution
of the ammonia-sulphate of copper, we shall find that the quantity of light is considerably
diminished, at least four-fifths of the luminous rays being absorbed,
while the chemical rays permeate it with the greatest facility, and
sensitive preparations are affected by its influence, notwithstanding
the deficiency of light, nearly as powerfully as if exposed to the
undecomposed sunbeams.

It was first imagined that under the brilliant sun and clear skies
of the south, photographic pictures would be produced with much greater
quickness than they could be in the atmosphere of Paris.

It is found, however, that a much longer time is required. Even in the clear
and beautiful light of the higher Alps, it has been proved that the
production of the photographic picture requires many minutes more,
even with the most sensitive preparations, than it does in London.

It has also been found that under the brilliant light of Mexico, twenty minutes, and half an hour,
are required to produce effects which in England would occupy but a minute; and travellers engaged
in copying the antiquities of Yucatan have on several occasions abandoned the use of the photographic
camera, and taken to their sketch books. Dr. Draper* has observed a similar difference between
the chemical action of light in New York and Virginia. This can be only explained by the supposition
that the intensity of the light and heat of these climes interferes with the action of the ENERGIC rays
on those sensitive preparations which are employed.* I would here take occasion to remark that
our country man, Dr. Draper, is very frequently quoted by Mr. Hunt in his "Researches." LUNAR
PICTURES-- DRUMMOND LIGHT.

The Roman Astronomers state that they have procured Daguerreotype impressions of the Nebula of the
sword of Orion. Signor Rondini has a secret method of receiving photographic images on lithographic
stone; on such a prepared stone they have succeeded in impressing an image of the Nebula and its stars;
"and from that stone they have been enabled to take impressions on paper, unlimited in number, of
singular beauty, and of perfect precision."

Experiments
have, however, proved that "no heating power exists in the moon's rays, and that lunar light
will not act chemically upon the iduret of silver." It was at one time supposed that terrestrial
or artificial light possessed no chemical rays, but this is incorrect-- Mr. Brande discovered that although
the concentrated light of the moon, or the light even of olefiant gas, however intense, had
no effect on chloride of silver, or on a mixture of chloride and hydrogen, yet the light emitted
by electerized charcoal blackens the salt. At the Royal Polytechnic Institution pictures have been
taken by means of sensitive paper acted upon by the Drummond Light; but it must of course
be distinctly understood, that they are inferior to those taken by the
light of the sun, or diffused daylight. If our operators could manage to
produce good pictures in this way they would put money in their pockets,
as many who cannot find time during the day would resort to their
rooms at night.

I throw out the hint in hopes some one will make the experiment. I have learned, since the above
was written, that an operator in Boston succeeded a short time since in procuring very good pictures
by the aid of the Drummond Light; but that the intensity of the light falling directly upon the sitter's
face caused great difficulty, and he abandoned it.

This may, probably, be remedied by interposing a screen of very thin tissue paper tinged slightly
of a bluish color. CHAP. XII.

ON COLORING DAGUERREOTYPES.

Nearly, if not quite all the various colors used in painting may be made from the five primitive colors,
black, white, blue, red and yellow, but for the Daguerrean artist it would be the best policy to obtain
such as are required by their art already prepared. In a majority of cases, the following will
be found sufficient, viz. Carmine. Prussian Blue. White. Chrome Yellow, Gamboge, Yellow Ochre;
or all three.** Gamboge is best for drapery; Ochre for the face. Light Red. Indigo. Burnt Sienna.
Bistre, or Burnt Umber. If, in coloring any part of a lady's or gentleman's apparel, it is found
necessary to produce other tints and shades, the following combinations
may be used: Orange-- Mix yellow with red, making it darker or lighter
by using more or less red.

Purple-- This is made with Prussian blue, or indigo and red. Carmine and Prussian
blue producing the richest color, which may be deepened in the shadows
by a slight addition of indigo or brown. Greens-- Prussian blue and
gamboge makes a very fine green, which may be varied to suit the taste
of the sitter or operator, by larger portions of either, or by adding
white, burnt sienna, indigo, and red, as the case may require.

These combinations, under different modifications, give almost endless varieties of green.
Brown-- May be made of different shades of umber, carmine and lamp-black. Neutral tint-- Is
composed of indigo and lamp-black.

Crimson-- Mix carmine and white, deepening the shaded parts of the picture with additional carmine. Flesh
Color-- The best representative of flesh color is light red, brightened in the more glowing or
warmer parts, with carmine, softened off in the lighter portions
with white, and shaded with purple and burnt sienna.

Lead Color-- Mix indigo and white in proportions to suit. Scarlet-- Carmine and light red. For Jewelry
cups of gold and silver preparations accompany each box for Daguerreotypists,
or may be procured separately. The method of laying colors on Daguerreotypes
is one of considerable difficulty, inasmuch as they are used in the
form of perfectly dry impalpable powder.

The author of this little work is now experimenting, in order, if possible, to discover some more
easy, artistic and unexceptionable method.

If successful, the result will be published in a future edition.

The rules we shall give for coloring Daguerreotypes depends, and
are founded, upon those observed in miniature painting, and are intended
more as hints to Daguerrean artists, in hopes of leading them to attempt
improvements, than as instructions wholly to be observed.

The writer is confident that some compound or ingredient may yet be discovered which, when mixed
with the colors, will give a more delicate, pleasing, and natural appearance to the picture than
is derived from the present mode of laying them on, which in his estimation is more like plastering
than coloring.

IN COLORING DAGUERREOTYPES, the principal shades of the head are to be made with bistre, mixed with
burnt sienna, touching some places with a mixture of carmine and
indigo.

The flesh tints are produced by the use of light red, deepened towards the shaded parts with
yellow ochre, blue and carmine mixed with indigo, while the warmer,
or more highly colored parts have a slight excess of carmine or lake.

Color the shades about the mouth and neck with yellow ochre, blue,
and a very little carmine, heightening the color of the lips with
carmine and light red, letting the light red predominate on the upper,
and the carmine on the lower lip; the shades in the corner of the
mouth being touched slightly with burnt sienna, mixed with carmine.

In coloring the eyes, the artist will of course be guided by nature, observing a very delicate
touch in laying on the colors, so as to preserve as much transparency
as possible.

A slight touch of
blue-- ultramarine would be best if it would adhere to the Daguerreotype plate-- in the whites
of the eye near the iris, will produce a good effect. In coloring the
heads of men it will be necessary to use the darker tints with more
freedom, according to the complexion of the sitter.

For women, the warmer tints should predominate, and in order to give
that transparency so universal with the softer sex-- and which gives
so much loveliness and beauty to the face-- a little white may be
judiciously intermingled with the red tints about the lighter portions
of the face.

In taking a picture of a lady with light or auburn hair, by the Daguerrean
process, much of the beauty of the face is destroyed, on account of
the imperfect manner in which light conveys the image of light objects
to the spectrum of the camera.

This may be obviated in some measure by proper coloring.

To do this, touch the shaded parts with burnt sienna and bistre,
filling up the lighter portions with yellow ochre, delicate touches
of burnt sienna, and in those parts which naturally have a bluish
tint, add very delicate touches of purple-- so delicate in fact as
hardly to be perceived.

The roots of the hair at the forehead should also be touched with
blue, and the eyebrows near the temples made of a pinkish tint.

The chin
of a woman is nearly of the same color as the cheeks in the most glowing parts. In men it is
stronger, and of a bluish tint, in order to produce the effect given
by the beard.

In portraits of women-- the middle tints on the side of the light,
which are perceived on the bosom and arms, are made of a slight mixture
of ochre, blue and lake, (or carmine), to which add, on the shaded
sides, ochre, bistre and purple, the latter in the darker parts.

The tints of the hands should be the same as the other parts of the
flesh, the ends of the fingers being a little pinkish and the nails
of a violet hue.

If any portion of the fleshy parts is shaded by portions of the dress, or by the position of
the hand, this shade should be colored with umber mixed with purple.

TO COLOR THE DRAPERY.-- Violet Velvet-- Use purple made of Prussian blue and carmine, touching
up the shaded parts with indigo blue. Green Velvet-- Mix Prussian blue and red-orpiment, shade
with purple, and touch up the lights with a little white. Red Velvet-- Mix a very little brown with carmine,
shading with purple, marking the lights in the strongest parts with
pure carmine, and touch the most brilliant slightly with white.

White Feathers-- May be improved by delicately touching the shaded parts with a little blue mixed
with white. White muslin, linen, lace, satin, silk, etc., may also be colored in the same way, being
careful not to lay the color on too heavily.

FURS-- Red Furs may be imitated by using light red and a little masticot, shaded with umber. Gray
Furs-- black and white mixed and shaded with bistre. Sable-- white shaded lightly with yellow ochre.
These few directions are quite sufficient for the art, and it is quite unnecessary for me to pursue
the subject further.

I would, however, remark that the Daguerreotypists would find it greatly to their advantage to
visit the studies of our best artists, our public galleries of paintings, and statuary, and wherever
else they can obtain a sight of fine paintings, and study the various styles of coloring, attitudes,
folds of drapery and other points of the art. In coloring Daguerreotypes, artists will find the
magnifying glass of much advantage in detecting any imperfections in the plate or in the image, which
may be remedied by the brush. In selecting brushes choose those most susceptible of a fine point, which
may be ascertained by wetting them between the lips, or in a glass of water. CHAP. XIII. THE PHOTOGRAPHOMETER.
The last number (for March, 1849) of the London Art-Journal, gives
the following description of a recent improvement in Photographic
Manipulation, and as I am desirous of furnishing everything new in
the art, I stop the press to add it, entire, to my work.

"Since the photographic power of the solar rays bears no direct relation to their luminous influence,
it becomes a question of considerable importance to those who practice the beautiful art of photography, to have
the means of readily measuring the ever changing activity of this force. Several plans more or
less successful, have been devised by Sir John Herschel, Messrs.
Jordan, Shaw and Hunt.

The instrument, however, which is now brought forward by Mr. Claudet, who is well known as one
of our most successful Daguerreotypists, appears admirably suited to all those purposes which the
practical man requires. The great difficulty which continually annoys the photographic amateur and artist,
is the determination of the sensibility of each tablet employed, relatively to the amount
of radiation, luminous and chemical, with which he is working.

With the photographometer of Mr. Claudet this is easily ascertained. The following woodcuts
and concise description will sufficiently indicate this useful and simple apparatus." For an instrument
of this kind it is important in the first place to have a motion always uniform, without complicated
or expensive mechanism. This is obtained by means founded upon the principle of the fall of
bodies sliding down an inclined plane. The sensitive surface is exposed to the light by the rapid
and uniform passage of a metal plate, A, B, (Fig. 31,) having openings of different length,
which follow a geometric progression. It is evident that the exposure to light will be the same for
each experiment, because the plate furnished with the proportional
openings falls always with the same rapidity, the height of the fall
being constant, and the angle of the inclined plane the same.

Each opening of this moveable plate allows the light to pass during the same space of time, and
the effect upon the sensitive surface indicates exactly the intensity
of the chemical rays.

The rapidity of the fall may be augmented or diminished by altering the inclination of the plane
by means of a graduated arc, C, D, (Fig. 30,) furnished with a screw, E, by which it may be fixed
at any angle. The same result may be obtained by modifying the height of the fall or the weight
of the moveable plate. The photogenic surface, whether it be the Daguerreotype plate, the
Talbotype paper, or any other preparation sensitive to light, is placed near the bottom of
the inclined plane, F. It is covered by a thin plate of metal, pierced with circular holes, which
correspond to the openings of the moveable plate at the moment of
the passage of the latter, during which the sensitive surface receives
the light wherever the circular holes leave it exposed.

"The part of the apparatus which contains the sensitive surface is an independent frame, and it
slides from a dark box into an opening on the side of the inclined
plane."

A covering of black cloth impermeable to light is, attached to the sides of the moveable plate,
enveloping the whole inclined plane, rolling freely over two rollers,
R, R, placed the one at the upper and the other at the lower part
of the inclined plane.

This cloth prevents the light striking the sensitive surface before and after the passage of the
moveable plate.

"It will be seen that this apparatus enables the experimentalist to ascertain with great precision
the exact length of time which is required to produce a given amount
of actinic change upon any sensitive photographic surface, whether
on metal or paper.

Although at present some calculation is necessary to determine the difference between the time which
is necessary for exposure in direct radiation, and to the action
of the secondary radiations of the camera obscura; this is, however,
a very simple matter, and it appears to us exceedingly easy to adapt
an instrument of this description to the camera itself."

By this instrument Mr. Claudet has already determined many very important points. Among others,
he has proved that on the most sensitive Daguerreotype plate an exposure of. 0001 part of a second
is sufficient to produce a decided effect.

"Regarding photography as an auxiliary aid to the artist of no mean value, we are pleased to
record a description of an instrument which, without being complicated, promises to be exceedingly
useful. In this opinion we are not singular; at a recent meeting of the Photographic Club, to
which this instrument was exhibited, it was with much real satisfaction that we learned that several
of our most eminent artists were now eager and most successful students in Photography. The
beautiful productions of the more prominent members of this club excited the admiration of all,
particularly the copies of architectural beauties, and small bits of landscape, by Messrs. Cundell
and Owen. We think that now the artist sees the advantage he may derive from the aid of science,
that both will gain by the union."

I hope the above description will induce our townsman, Mr. Roach,
to successfully produce an instrument that will meet the wants of
our artists in that part of the Daguerrean process referred to.

FINIS. INDEX.

Accelerating Liquids. 65 Amphitype. 116 Anthotype. 113 Apparatus. Daguerreotype. 43 Calotype 97
Photogenic 87 Application of Photogenic Drawing. 95 Applying the Sensitive. 64 Bringing out the
Picture. 71 Bromine Box. 51 Chloride of 68 Roach's Tripple Compound
of 67 water.

65 Bromide of Iodine. 67 of Lime. 68 Paper. 91 of silver. 35 Brushes. 88
Buff Sticks. 60 Calotype process. 97 paper. Exposure in Camera of
100 Pictures. Bringing out ib. Fixing 101 Camera. Description of the
43 Stand. 49 Woodbridge's ib. Calotype. 50 Voigtlander 45 Chloride
of Bromine.

68 of Gold. 36 to make a solution of 75 of Iodine. 66 of Silver. 31 Chromatype. 112 Chrysotype.
106 Cleaning and Polishing the plate. 61 Coating Boxes. 51 Color Boxes. 53 Colored Daguerreotypes
on Copper. 77 Coloring the Picture. 76 Daguerreotypes. 129 Concave Mirrors. 19 Convex Mirrors 19 Corchorus
Japonica. 37 Crayon Daguerreotypes. 120 Cyanotype 109 Daguerreotype Apparatus. 43 Process. 61 Plates.
62 Daguerreotypes. Crayon 77 on paper 81 Dedication. iii Definitions of terms used in optics, 15
Different methods of preparing photogenic paper. 89 Directions for use of Galvanic Battery. 58 Distilled
water 88 Drummond light. 128 Dry Sensitive. 68 Drying apparatus. 72 Effects of light on bodies
25 Energiatype 111 Etching Daguerreotypes. 83 Fifth operation.

Fixing the picture. 61 First operation. Cleaning the plate 61 Fluoric acid. 69 Fourth operation-Bringing
out the picture. 71 Funnels. 53 Galvanic Battery. 57 Solution for use of 58 Gilding stand. 53 the
picture. 74 Gold.

Chloride of 36 To make solution of 75 Hyposulphite; or Salt of 74 Preparation of. 36 Gurney's
Sensitive. 67 Head Rests. 57 Hints and Suggestions. 39 History of Photography. 3 Hungarian Liquid.
69 Hygrometers. 55 Hyposulphite of Gold. 74 of Soda. 28 Instantaneous pictures by means of
Galvanism. 77 Introduction. i Iodine, Dry 64 Chloride of 66 Bromide of 67 Box. 51 Iodide of silver.
32 Ioduret of silver. 33 Iodize the Plate. To 64 Iodized Paper for Calotypes. To prepare 98 To
prepare for the Camera ib. Lamps, Spirit 53 Light. Theory on 14
Motion of 16 Reflection of 17 Refraction of 20 on bodies. Effects
of 25 Prismatic analysis of 22 Lime, Bromide of 68 Lunar Pictures.

127 Mead's Accelerator. 68 Mercury Bath 50 Nitrate of Silver. 89 Oxide of Silver. 29 On coloring
Daguerreotypes 129 On the probability of Producing colored Photographs. 123 Paper. blotting;
or bibulous, 88 Daguerreotypes. 81 preparation of 89 suitable for
Photographs. To beg the question in debate, is vast economy of midnight oil,
and a wholesale forestaller of wrinkles and gray hairs. Instead of protracted investigation
into Scripture usage, painfully collating passages, to settle the meaning of terms, let every
man interpret the oldest book in the world by the usages of his own time and place, and the
work is done. And then instead of one revelation, they might be multiplied as the drops of
the morning, and every man have an infallible clue to the mind of the Spirit, in the dialect
of his own neighborhood! What a Babel-jargon, to take it for granted that the sense in which
words are now used, is the inspired sense. David says, "I prevented the dawning of the morning,
and cried." What, stop the earth in its revolution! Two hundred years ago, prevent was used
in its strict Latin sense, to come before, or anticipate. It is always used in this sense in
the Old and New Testaments. David's expression, in the English of the nineteenth century, would
be "Before the dawning of the morning I cried." In almost every chapter of the Bible, words
are used in a sense now nearly, or quite obsolete, and sometimes in a sense totally opposite
to their present meaning. A few examples follow: "I purposed to come to you, but was let (hindered)
hitherto." "And the four beasts (living ones) fell down and worshiped God,"--"Whosoever shall
offend (cause to sin) one of these little ones,"--Go out into the highways and compel (urge)
them to come in,"--Only let your conversation (habitual conduct) be as becometh the Gospel,"--"The
Lord Jesus Christ who shall judge the quick (living) and the dead,"--They that seek me early
(earnestly) shall find me," So when tribulation or persecution ariseth by-and-by (immediately)
they are offended." Nothing is more mutable than language. Words, like bodies, are always throwing
off some particles and absorbing others. So long as they are mere representatives, elected
by the whims of universal suffrage, their meaning will be a perfect volatile, and to cork it
up for the next century is an employment sufficiently silly (to speak within bounds) for a
modern Bible-Dictionary maker. There never was a shallower conceit than that of establishing
the sense attached to a word centuries ago, by showing what it means now. Pity that fashionable
mantuamakers were not a little quicker at taking hints from some Doctors of Divinity. How easily
they might save their pious customers all qualms of conscience about the weekly shiftings of
fashion, by proving that the last importation of Parisian indecency now "showing off" on promenade,
was the very style of dress in which the modest and pious Sarah kneaded cakes for the angels.
Since such a fashion flaunts along Broadway now, it must have trailed over Canaan four thousand
years ago!

The inference that the word buy, used to describe the procuring of servants, means procuring
them as chattels, seems based upon the fallacy, that whatever costs money is money; that whatever
or whoever you pay money for, is an article of property, and the fact of your paying for it,
proves it property. 1. The children of Israel were required to purchase their firstborn from
under the obligations of the priesthood, Num. xviii. 15, 16; iii. 45-51; Ex. xiii. 13; xxxiv.
20. This custom still exists among the Jews, and the word buy is still used to describe the
transaction. Does this prove that their firstborn were or are, held as property? They were
bought as really as were servants. 2. The Israelites were required to pay money for their own
souls. This is called sometimes a ransom, sometimes an atonement. Were their souls therefore
marketable commodities? 3. When the Israelites set apart themselves or their children to the
Lord by vow, for the performance of some service, an express statute provided that a price
should be set upon the "persons," and it prescribed the manner and terms of the "estimation"
or valuation, by the payment of which, the persons might be bought off from the service vowed.
The price for males from one month old to five years, was five shekels, for females, three;
from five years old to twenty, for males, twenty shekels, for females, ten; from twenty years
old to sixty, for males, fifty shekels, for females, thirty; above sixty years old, for males,
fifteen shekels, for females, ten, Lev. xxvii. 2-8. What egregious folly to contend that all
these descriptions of persons were goods and chattels because they were bought and their prices
regulated by law! 4. Bible saints bought their wives. Boaz bought Ruth. "Moreover Ruth the
Moabitess, the wife of Mahlon, have I purchased (bought) to be my wife." Ruth iv. 10.[A] Hosea
bought his wife. "So I bought her to me for fifteen pieces of silver, and for an homer of Barley,
and an half homer of barley." Hosea iii. 2. Jacob bought his wives Rachael and Leah, and not
having money, paid for them in labor--seven years a piece. Gen. xxix. 15-23. Moses probably
bought his wife in the same way, and paid for her by his labor, as the servant of her father.[B]
Exod. ii. 21. Shechem, when negotiating with Jacob and his sons for Dinah, says, "Ask me never
so much dowry and gift, and I will give according as ye shall say unto me." Gen. xxxiv. 11,
12. David purchased Michael, and Othniel, Achsah, by performing perilous services for the fathers
of the damsels. 1 Sam. xviii. 25-27; Judg. i. 12, 13. That the purchase of wives, either with
money or by service, was the general practice, is plain from such passages as Ex. xxii. 17,
and 1 Sam. xviii. 25. Among the modern Jews this usage exists, though now a mere form, there
being no real purchase. Yet among their marriage ceremonies, is one called "marrying by the
penny." The similarity in the methods of procuring wives and servants, in the terms employed
in describing the transactions, and in the prices paid for each, are worthy of notice. The
highest price of wives (virgins) and servants was the same. Comp. Deut, xxii. 28, 29, and Ex.
xxii. 17, with Lev. xxvii. 2-8. The medium price of wives and servants was the same. Comp.
Hos. iii. 2, with Ex. xxi. 32. Hosea seems to have paid one half in money and the other half
in grain. Further, the Israelitish female bought-servants were wives, their husbands and masters
being the same persons. Ex. xxi. 8, Judg. xix. 3, 27. If buying servants proves them property,
buying wives proves them property. Why not contend that the wives of the ancient fathers of
the faithful were their "chattels," and used as ready change at a pinch; and thence deduce
the rights of modern husbands? Alas! Patriarchs and prophets are followed afar off! When will
pious husbands live up to their Bible privileges, and become partakers with Old Testament worthies
in the blessedness of a husband's rightful immunities! Refusing so to do, is questioning the
morality of those "good old slaveholders and patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob."

[Footnote A: In the verse preceding, Boaz says, "I have bought all that was Elimelech's * *
* of the hand of Naomi." In the original, the same word (kana) is used in both verses. In the
9th, "a parcel of land" is "bought," in the 10th a "wife" is "bought." If the Israelites had
been as profound at inferences as our modern Commentators, they would have put such a fact
as this to the rack till they had tortured out of it a divine warrant for holding their wives
as property and speculating in the article whenever it happened to be scarce.]

[Footnote B: This custom still prevails in some eastern countries. Steps in the career of a journalist.
The editor. The Advertising writer. The illustrator. Designing book
covers. Patterns.

CHAPTER II THE SINGLE WOMAN Teaching.

Teaching Women in Society.

Parliamentary law. Games. Book-reviewing. Manuscript-reading for publishers. Library work. Teaching
music and painting. Home study of professional housework. The unmarried daughter at home. The woman
in business. Her relation to her employer. Securing an increase of salary. The woman of independent means.
Her civic and social duties. CHAPTER III THE WIFE Nature's intention
in marriage.

The woman's crime in marrying for support.

Her blunder in marrying an inefficient man for love.

The proper union. Mutual aid of husband and wife. Manipulating a husband. By deceit. By tact. Confidence
between man and wife. CHAPTER IV THE HOUSE Element in choice of a home. The city apartment.
Furniture for a temporary home. Couches. Rugs. Book-cases.

The suburban and country house.

Economic considerations.

Buying an old house. Building a new one. Supervising the building. The woman's wishes. CHAPTER
V THE HOUSE Essential parts of a house. Double use of rooms. Utility of piazzas. Landscape gardening.
Water supply. Water power. Illumination. Dangers from gas.

How to read a gas-meter.

How to test kerosene.

Care of lamps. Use of candles. Making the best of
the old house. CHAPTER VI FURNITURE AND DECORATION The qualities to
be sought in furniture. Home-made furniture. Semi-made furniture. Good
furniture as an investment. Furnishing and decorating the hall. The
staircase.

The parlor.

Rugs and carpets.

Oriental rugs. Floors.
Treatment of hardwood. Of other wood. How to stain a floor covering.
CHAPTER VII FURNITURE AND DECORATION The carpet square. Furniture for
the parlor. Parlor decoration. The piano. The library. Arrangement of books.
The "Den." The living-room. The dining-room. Bedrooms.

How to
make a bed.

The guest chamber.

Window shades and blinds. CHAPTER VIII
THE MOTHER Nursing the child. The mother's diet. Weaning. The nursing
bottle. Milk for the baby. The baby's table manners. His bath. Cleansing
his eyes and nose. Relief of colic. Care of the diaper.

CHAPTER
IX THE MOTHER The school child.

Breakfast, Luncheon, Supper.

Aiding the teacher at home. Manual training. Utilizing
the collecting mania. Physical exercise. Intellectual exercise. Forming
the bath habit. Teething. Forming the toothbrush habit.

Shoes for
children.

Dress. Hats.
The histories of the revolution tell us that Benedict Arnold was "bought" by British gold,
and that Williams, Paulding, and Van Wert, could not be "bought" by Major Andre. When a northern
clergyman marries a rich southern widow, country gossip thus hits off the indecency, "The cotton
bags bought him." Sir Robert Walpole said, "Every man has his price, and whoever will pay it,
can buy him," and John Randolph said, "The northern delegation is in the market; give me money
enough, and I can buy them." The temperance publications tell us that candidates for office
buy men with whiskey; and the oracles of street tattle, that the court, district attorney,
and jury, in the late trial of Robinson were bought, yet we have no floating visions of "chattels
personal," man-auctions, or coffles.

[Footnote A: The following statute is now in force in the free state of Illinois--"No negro,
mulatto, or Indian, shall at any time purchase any servant other than of their own complexion:
and if any of the persons aforesaid shall presume to purchase a white servant, such servant
shall immediately become free, and shall be so held, deemed and taken."]

In Connecticut, town paupers are "bought" by individuals, who, for a stipulated sum become
responsible to the town for their comfortable support for one year. After waiting till all sound
of their receding steps had wholly died away, she again moved forward, and soon had the satisfaction
of finding herself in the road, but a short distance from the spot
where, a few hours before, she and her attendant had been captured.

It remained now to get beyond the tory encampment. Could she be permitted to pass down the mountain,
in the road, but a half mile, she might then consider the danger mostly over, and proceed on
to the tavern in comparative safety. And, though aware that this portion of the way might
be scarcely less dangerous than any she had passed over, yet, tempted by the facility with which
it could be accomplished in the road, she resolved to make the attempt, and accordingly, with
a guarded but rapid step, began to move down the sloping way before her. But she had proceeded
but a short distance, when she was startled by the loud report of
firearms in the direction of the tory encampment, which, as already
described, were, just at that moment, being discharged at the escaping
canoe.

While pausing in doubt at the meaning of this unexpected outbreak, the random firing of Woodburn's
party which we noted as soon following that of the tories, now burst from the forest a little
before her on the left, and greatly in creased her perplexity. Suddenly conceiving the idea, from
these circumstances, that the tories had been assailed in their rear, and were now retreating towards
her, and this notion being the next moment confirmed by the glimpses she caught of a dark form
emerging from the bushes on the left, whom she mistook for a foe, she hastily turned and fled,
in agitation and alarm, into the opposite forest bordering the road on the south, having thus approached
within a few rods of the very men who were in search of her, and thus unconsciously eluded
their friendly grasp. Though intending soon to turn her course eastward, so as to come out
again into the road at such a point as should place her beyond any danger of a recapture, yet,
urged by her fears lest her foes should cross the road and overtake her, she pressed on so far
into the depths of the woods, that when she paused to change her course, she became confused
and doubtful respecting the direction she should take to regain the road in the manner she
had proposed. She had now no further knowledge of the make of the land, or the situation of
the hills, by which she could be guided. But at length, fixing on a course which she thought
most likely to be the right one, she again set forward, slowly picking her way through the
swampy and tangled tract of forest into which she seemed now to have entered. In this manner she
pursued her dubious course onward nearly an hour, every moment expecting that the next would
bring her out into the road. At length she fell in with a small stream, which she rightly judged
to be one of the brooks running into Black River, and which, from
what she knew of the course of that river, she supposed would lead
nearly in the direction she sought to go.

But on stooping down to feel the current, she, to her great surprise, found it running in a
course directly opposite from what she expected. "And there ye shall BE SOLD unto your enemies for bond-men and bond-women and NO
MAN SHALL BUY YOU." How could they "be sold" without being bought? Our translation makes it
nonsense. The word Makar rendered "be sold" is used here in Hithpael conjugation, which is
generally reflexive in its force, and like the middle voice in Greek, represents what an individual
does for himself, and should manifestly have been rendered "ye shall offer yourselves for sale,
and there shall be no purchaser." For a clue to Scripture usage on this point, see 1 Kings
xxi. 20. 25.--"Thou hast sold thyself to work evil." "There was none like unto Ahab which did
sell himself to work wickedness."--2 Kings xvii. 17. "They used divination and enchantments,
and sold themselves to do evil."--Isa. l. 1. "For your iniquities have ye sold yourselves."
Isa. lii. 3, "Ye have sold yourselves FOR NOUGHT, and ye shall be redeemed without money."
See also, Jer. xxxiv. 14; Rom. vii. 14, vi. 16; John, viii. 34, and the case of Joseph and
the Egyptians, already quoted. In the purchase of wives, though spoken of rarely, it is generally
stated that they were bought of third persons. If servants were bought of third persons, it
is strange that no instance of it is on record.

[Footnote A: Those who insist that the servants which the Israelites were commanded to buy
of "the heathen which were round about" them, were to be bought of third persons, virtually
charge God with the inconsistency of recognizing and affirming the right of those very persons
to freedom, upon whom, say they, he pronounced the doom of slavery. For they tell us, that
the sentence of death uttered against those heathen was commuted into slavery, which punishment
God denounced against them. Now if "the heathen round about" were doomed to slavery, the sellers
were doomed as well as the sold. Where, we ask, did the sellers get their right to sell? God
by commanding the Israelites to BUY, affirmed the right of somebody to sell, and that the ownership
of what was sold existed somewhere; which right and ownership he commanded them to recognize
and respect. We repeat the question, where did the heathen sellers get their right to sell,
since they were dispossessed of their right to themselves and doomed to slavery equally with
those whom they sold. Did God's decree vest in them a right to others while it annulled their
right to themselves? If, as the objector's argument assumes, one part of "the heathen round
about" were already held as slaves by the other part, such of course were not doomed to slavery,
for they were already slaves. So also, if those heathen who held them as slaves had a right
to hold them, which right God commanded the Israelites to buy out, thus requiring them to recognize
it as a right, and on no account to procure its transfer to themselves without paying to the
holders an equivalent, surely, these slaveholders were not doomed by God to be slaves, for
according to the objector, God had himself affirmed their right to hold others as slaves, and
commanded his people to respect it.]

We now proceed to inquire into the condition of servants under the patriarchal and Mosaic systems.

I. THE RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES OF SERVANTS.

The leading design of the laws defining the relations of master and servant, was the good of
both parties--more especially the good of the servants. While the master's interests were guarded
from injury, those of the servants were promoted. These laws made a merciful provision for
the poorer classes, both of the Israelites and Strangers, not laying on burdens, but lightening
them--they were a grant of privileges and favors.

I. BUYING SERVANTS WAS REGARDED AS A KINDNESS TO THE PERSONS BOUGHT, and as establishing between
them and their purchasers a bond of affection and confidence. This is plain from the frequent
use of it to illustrate the love and care of God for his chosen people. Deut. xxxii. 6; Ex.
xv. 16; Ps. lxxiv. 2; Prov. viii. 22.

II. NO STRANGER COULD JOIN THE FAMILY OF AN ISRAELITE WITHOUT BECOMING A PROSELYTE. Compliance
with this condition was the price of the privilege. Gen. xvii. 9-14, 23, 27. In other words,
to become a servant was virtually to become an Israelite.[A] In the light of this fact, look
at the relation sustained by a proselyted servant to his master. Was it a sentence consigning
to punishment, or a ticket of admission to privileges?

[Footnote A: The rites by which a stranger became a proselyte transformed him into a Jew. Compare
1 Chron. ii. 17, with 2 Sam. xvii. 25. In Esther viii. 17, it is said "Many of the people of
the land became Jews." With his keen natural sense of everything fine and poetic, he had been
struck with this passage, as so beautifully expressing an ideal womanhood, that he had in his
earlier days copied it in his private recueil. She has a strange sweetness in her mind, and
singular purity in her affections; and you could not persuade her to do anything wrong or sinful,
if you should give her all the world.

A shadowy recollection of this description crossed his mind more than once, as he looked into
those calm and candid eyes. Was there, then, a truth in that inner union of chosen souls with
God, of which his mother and her mother before her had borne meek witness,-- their souls shining
out as sacred lamps through the alabaster walls of a temple?

But then, again, had he not logically met and demonstrated, to his own satisfaction, the nullity
of the religious dogmas on which New England faith was based? There could be no such inner life,
he said to himself,-- he had demonstrated it as an absurdity. What was it, then,-- this charm,
so subtile and so strong, by which this fair child, his inferior in age, cultivation, and knowledge
of the world, held him in a certain awe, and made him feel her spirit so unapproachable? His
curiosity was piqued. He felt stimulated to employ all his powers of pleasing. He was determined,
that, sooner or later, she should feel his power.

With Mrs. Scudder his success was immediate, she was completely won
over by the deferential manner with which he constantly referred himself
to her matronly judgments, and, on returning to the house, she warmly
pressed him to stay to dinner.

Burr accepted the invitation with a frank and almost boyish abandon, declaring that he had
not seen anything, for years, that so reminded him of old times. He praised everything at table,-- the
smoking brown-bread, the baked beans steaming from the oven, where
they had been quietly simmering during the morning walk, and the Indian
pudding, with its gelatinous softness, matured by long and patient
brooding in the motherly old oven.

He declared that there was no style of living to be compared with
the simple, dignified order of a true New England home, where servants
were excluded, and everything came direct from the polished and cultured
hand of a lady.

It realized the dreams of Arcadian romance. A man, he declared, must be unworthy the name,
who did not rise to lofty sentiments and heroic deeds, when even
his animal wants were provided for by the ministrations of the most
delicate and exalted portion of the creation.

After dinner he would be taken into all the family interests. Gentle and pliable as oil, he
seemed to penetrate every joint of the ménage by a subtile and seductive sympathy. He was interested
in the spinning, in the weaving,-- and in fact, nobody knows how it
was done, but, before the afternoon shadows had turned, he was sitting
in the cracked arm-chair of Mary's garret-boudoir, gravely giving
judgment on several specimens of her spinning, which Mrs. Scudder
had presented to his notice.

With that ease with which he could at will glide into the character of the superior and elder brother,
he had, without seeming to ask questions, drawn from Mary an account
of her reading, her studies, her acquaintances.

"You read French, I presume?" he said to her, with easy negligence.

Mary colored deeply, and then, as one who recollects one's self,
answered, gravely,-- "No, Mr. Burr, I know no language but my own."

"But you should learn French, my child," said Burr, with that gentle
dictatorship which he could at times so gracefully assume.

"I should be delighted to learn," said Mary, "but have no opportunity." "Yes," said Mrs. Scudder,--
"Mary has always had a taste for study, and would be glad to improve
in any way."

"Pardon me, Madam, if I take the liberty of making a suggestion.

There is a most excellent man, the Abbé Léfon, now in Newport, driven here by the political disturbances
in France; he is anxious to obtain a few scholars, and I am interested
that he should succeed, for he is a most worthy man."

"Is he a Roman Catholic?" "He is, Madam; but there could be no manner of danger with a person so
admirably instructed as your daughter. If you please to see him, Madam, I
will call with him some time." "Mrs. Marvyn will, perhaps, join me," said
Mary.

"She has been studying French by herself for some time, in order
to read a treatise on astronomy, which she found in that language.

I will go over to-morrow and see her about it." Before Colonel Burr departed, the Doctor requested
him to step a moment with him into his study.

Burr, who had had frequent occasions during his life to experience the sort of paternal freedom which
the clergy of his country took with him in right of his clerical descent, began to summon together
his faculties of address for the avoidance of a kind of conversation
which he was not disposed to meet.

He was agreeably disappointed, however, when, taking a paper from the table,
and presenting it to him, the Doctor said,-- "I feel myself, my dear
Sir, under a burden of obligation for benefits received from your
family, so that I never see a member of it without casting about in
my own mind how I may in some measure express my good-will towards
him.

You are aware that the papers of your distinguished grandfather have fallen into my hands, and
from them I have taken the liberty to make a copy of those maxims by which he guided a life which
was a blessing to his country and to the world. May I ask the favor that you will read them with
attention? and if you find anything contrary to right reason or sober
sense, I shall be happy to hear of it on a future occasion."

"Thank you, Doctor," said Burr, bowing. "I shall always be sensible of the kindness of the
motive which has led you to take this trouble on my account.

Believe me, Sir, I am truly obliged to you for it." And thus the interview terminated. That night,
the Doctor, before retiring, offered fervent prayers for the grandson of his revered master
and friend, praying that his father's and mother's God might bless him and make him a living
stone in the Eternal Temple. Meanwhile, the object of these prayers was sitting by a table in
dressing-gown and slippers, thinking over the events of the day.
The paper which Dr. H. had handed him contained the celebrated "Resolutions"
by which his ancestor led a life nobler than any mere dogmas can possibly
be.

By its side lay a perfumed note from Madame de Frontignac,-- one of
those womanly notes, so beautiful, so sacred in themselves, but so
mournful to a right-minded person who sees whither they are tending.

Burr opened and perused it,-- laid it by,-- opened the document that the Doctor had given, and thoughtfully
read the first of the "Resolutions":-- "Resolved, That I will do whatsoever I think to be most
to God's glory, and my own good profit and pleasure in the whole
of my duration, without any consideration of time, whether now or
never so many myriad ages hence."

Resolved, To do whatever I think to be my duty and most for the good
and advantage of mankind in general.

"Resolved, To do this, whatsoever difficulties I meet with, and how many and how great soever."
Burr read the whole paper through attentively once or twice, and paused thoughtfully over many
parts of it.

He sat for some time after, lost in reflection; the paper dropped from his hand,
and then followed one of those long, deep seasons of fixed reverie,
when the soul thinks by pictures and goes over endless distances in
moments.

In him, originally, every moral fatuity and sensibility was as keenly strung as in any member of that
remarkable family from which he was descended, and which has, whether
in good or ill, borne no common stamp.

Two possible lives flashed before his mind at that moment, rapidly as when a train sweeps
by with flashing lamps in the night. The life of worldly expediency,
the life of eternal rectitude,-- the life of seventy years, and that
life eternal in which the event of death is no disturbance.

Suddenly he roused himself, picked up the paper, filed and dated it carefully, and laid it by;
and in that moment was renewed again that governing purpose which
sealed him, with all his beautiful capabilities, as the slave of the
fleeting and the temporary, which sent him at last, a shipwrecked
man, to a nameless, dishonored grave.

He took his pen and gave to a friend his own views of the events of the day. "Mr. DEAR,---- We are
still in Newport, conjugating the verb s'ennuyer, which I, for one, have put through all the
moods and tenses.

Pour passer le temps, however, I have la belle Française and my sweet little Puritan. I visited
there this morning.

She lives with her mother, a little walk out toward the seaside,
in a cottage quite prettily sequestered among blossoming apple-trees,
and the great hierarch of modern theology, Dr. H., keeps guard over
them.

No chance here for any indiscretions, you see." By-the-by, the good Doctor astonished our monde
here on Sunday last, by treating us to a solemn onslaught on slavery
and the slave-trade.

He had all the chief captains and counsellors to hear him, and smote them hip and thigh, and pursued
them even unto Shur. "He is one of those great, honest fellows, without the smallest notion
of the world we live in, who think, in dealing with men, that you must go to work and prove the
right or the wrong of a matter; just as if anybody cared for that! Supposing he is right,--
which appears very probable to me,-- what is he going to do about it? No moral argument, since
the world began, ever prevailed over twenty-five per cent. profit." However, he is the spiritual
director of la belle Puritaine, and was a resident in my grandfather's
family, so I did the agreeable with him as well as such an uncircumcised
Ishmaelite could.

I discoursed theology,-- sat with the most docile air possible while he explained to me all the
ins and outs in his system of the universe, past, present, and future,--
heard him dilate calmly on the Millennium, and expound prophetic symbols,
marching out before me his whole apocalyptic menagerie of beasts
and dragons with heads and horns innumerable, to all which I gave
edifying attention, taking occasion now and then to turn a compliment
in favor of the ladies,-- never lost, you know.

"Really, he is a worthy old soul, and actually believes all these
things with his whole heart, attaching unheard-of importance to the
most abstract ideas, and embarking his whole being in his ideal view
of a grand Millennial finale to the human race.

I look at him and at myself, and ask, Can human beings be made so unlike?" My little Mary to-day
was in a mood of'sweet austere composure'quite becoming to her style of beauty; her naive nonchalance
at times is rather stimulating. What a contrast between her and la belle Française!-- all the difference
that there is between a diamond and a flower. I find the little thing has a cultivated mind,
enriched by reading, and more by a still, quaint habit of thinking, which is new and charming. But a truce
to this.

"I have seen our friends at last. We have had three or four meetings, and are waiting to hear from
Philadelphia,-- matters are getting in train. If Messrs. T. and S. dare to repeat what they
said again, let me know; they will find in me a man not to be trifled
with.

I shall be with you in a week or ten days, at farthest. Meanwhile stand to your guns." Ever
yours, "BURR." CHAPTER XVII. The next morning, before the early dews had yet dried off the grass,
Mary started to go and see her friend Mrs. Marvyn. It was one of those charming, invigorating days,
familiar to those of Newport experience, when the sea lies shimmering and glittering in deep blue
and gold, and the sky above is firm and cloudless, and every breeze
that comes landward seems to bear health and energy upon its wings.

As Mary approached the house, she heard loud sounds of discussion from the open kitchen-door, and, looking
in, saw a rather original scene acting. Candace, armed with a long oven-shovel, stood before the open door
of the oven, whence she had just been removing an army of good things
which appeared ranged around on the dresser. Cato, in the undress of a red
flannel shirt and tow-cloth trousers, was cuddled, in a consoled and
protected attitude, in the corner of the wooden settle, with a mug of flip
in his hand, which Candace had prepared, and, calling him in from his
work, authoritatively ordered him to drink, on the showing that he
had kept her awake the night before with his cough, and she was sure
he was going to be sick.

Of course, worse things may happen to a man than to be vigorously taken care of by his wife, and
Cato had a salutary conviction of this fact, so that he resigned himself to his comfortable corner
and his flip with edifying serenity. Opposite to Candace stood a well-built, corpulent negro
man, dressed with considerable care, and with the air of a person
on excellent terms with himself.

This was no other than Digo, the house-servant and factotum of Dr. Stiles, who considered himself
as the guardian of his master's estate, his title, his honor, his literary character, his professional
position, and his religious creed. Digo was ready to assert before all the world, that one and all of
these were under his special protection, and that whoever had anything to say to the contrary
of any of these must expect to take issue with him.

Digo not only swallowed all his master's opinions whole, but seemed to have the stomach of an ostrich
in their digestion.

He believed everything, no matter what, the moment he understood that the Doctor held it. He believed
that Hebrew was the language of heaven,-- that the ten tribes of the Jews had reappeared in the
North American Indians,-- that there was no such thing as disinterested
benevolence, and that the doings of the unregenerate had some value,--
that slavery was a divine ordinance, and that Dr. H. was a radical,
who did more harm than good,-- and, finally, that there never was
so great a man as Dr. Stiles; and as Dr. Stiles belonged to him in
the capacity of master, why, he, Digo, owned the greatest man in
America.

Of course, as Candace held precisely similar opinions in regard to
Dr. H., the two never could meet without a discharge of the opposite
electricities.

Digo had, it is true, come ostensibly on a mere worldly errand from
his mistress to Mrs. Marvyn, who had promised to send her some turkeys'eggs,
but he had inly resolved with himself that he would give Candace his
opinion,-- that is, what Dr. Stiles had said at dinner the day before
about Doctor H.'s Sunday's discourse.

Dr. Stiles had not heard it, but Digo had.

He had felt it due to the responsibilities of his position to be present on so very important an
occasion. Therefore, after receiving his eggs, he opened hostilities by remarking, in a general way,
that he had attended the Doctor's preaching on Sunday, and that there was quite a crowded
house. Candace immediately began mentally to bristle her feathers like a hen who sees a hawk in the
distance, and responded with decision:-- "Den you heard sometin',
for once in your life!"

"I must say," said Digo, with suavity, "dat I can't give my'proval to such sentiments." "More
shame for you," said Candace, grimly.

"You a man, and not stan'by your color, and flunk under to mean white ways! Ef you was half a man,
your heart would'a'bounded like a cannon-ball at dat ar'sermon." "Dr. Stiles and me we talked
it over after church," said Digo,-- "and de Doctor was of my'pinion, dat Providence didn't intend"----
"Oh, you go long wid your Providence! Guess, ef white folks had let us alone, Providence wouldn't
trouble us." "Well," said Digo, "Dr. Stiles is clear dat dis yer's a-fulfillin'de prophecies and bringin'in
de fulness of de Gentiles." "Fulness of de fiddlesticks!" said Candace, irreverently. "Now
what a way dat ar'is of talkin'! Go look at one o'dem ships we come over in,-- sweatin'and groanin',--
in de dark and dirt,-- cryin'and dyin',-- howlin'for breath till de sweat run off us,-- livin'and
dead chained together,-- prayin'like de rich man in hell for a drop
o'water to cool our tongues!

Call dat ar'a-bringin'de fulness of de Gentiles, do ye? Ugh!" And Candace ended with a guttural
howl, and stood frowning and gloomy over the top of her long kitchen-shovel, like a black Bellona leaning
on her spear of battle. Digo recoiled a little, but stood too well in his own esteem to give up;
so he shifted his attack. "Well, for my part, I must say I never
was'clined to your Doctor's'pinions.

Why,
now, Dr. Stiles says, notin'couldn't be more absurd dan what he says'bout disinterested benevolence.
My Doctor says, dere a'n't no such ting!" "I should tink it's likely!" said Candace, drawing
herself up with superb disdain. "Our Doctor knows dere is,-- and why?'cause he's got it IN
HERE," said she, giving her ample chest a knock which resounded like the boom from a barrel.
"Candace," said Cato, gently, "you's gittin'too hot." "Cato, you shut up!" said Candace, turning
sharp round. "What did I make you dat ar'flip for,'cept you was so hoarse you oughtn'for to
say a word? Pootty business, you go to agitatin'yourself wid dese yer! Ef you wear out your poor
old throat talkin', you may get de'sumption; and den what'd become o'me?" Cato, thus lovingly
pitched hors-de-combat, sipped the sweetened cup in quietness of soul, while Candace returned to the
charge. "Now, I tell ye what," she said to Digo,-- "jest'cause you wear your master's old coats
and hats, you tink you must go in for all dese yer old, mean, white'pinions. A'n't ye'shamed--
you, a black man-- to have no more pluck and make cause wid de Egyptians? Now,'ta'n't what my Doctor
gives me,-- he never giv'me the snip of a finger-nail,-- but it's what he does for mine; and when
de poor critturs lands dar, tumbled out like bales on de wharves, ha'n't dey seen his great cocked
hat, like a lighthouse, and his big eyes lookin'sort o'pitiful at'em,
as ef he felt o'one blood wid'em?

Why, de very looks of de man is worth everyting; and who ever thought o'doin'anyting for deir
souls, or cared ef dey had souls, till he begun it?"

 When a body of slaves is
moved any distance in our republic, they are handcuffed and chained together, to keep them
from running away, or beating their drivers' brains out. Was this the Mosaic plan, or an improvement
introduced by Samuel, or was it left for the wisdom of Solomon? The usage, doubtless, claims
a paternity not less venerable and biblical! Perhaps they were lashed upon camels, and transported
in bundles, or caged up and trundled on wheels to and fro, and while at the Holy City, "lodged
in jail for safe keeping," the Sanhedrim appointing special religious services for their benefit,
and their "drivers" officiating at "ORAL instruction." Meanwhile, what became of the sturdy
handmaids left at home? What hindered them from stalking off in a body? Perhaps the Israelitish
matrons stood sentry in rotation round the kitchens, while the young ladies scoured the country,
as mounted rangers, picking up stragglers by day, and patrolled the streets, keeping a sharp
look-out at night!

IV. WILFUL NEGLECT OF CEREMONIAL RITES DISSOLVED THE RELATION.

Suppose the servants from the heathen had, upon entering Jewish families, refused circumcision;
if slaves, how simple the process of emancipation! Their refusal did the job. Or, suppose they
had refused to attend the annual feasts, or had eaten leavened bread during the Passover, or
compounded the ingredients of the anointing oil, or had touched a dead body, a bone, or a grave,
or in any way had contracted ceremonial uncleanness, and refused to be cleansed with the "water
of separation," they would have been "cut off from the people;" excommunicated. Ex. xii. 19;
xxx. 33; Num. xix. 16.

V. SERVANTS OF THE PATRIARCHS NECESSARILY VOLUNTARY.

Abraham's servants are an illustration. At one time he had three hundred and eighteen young
men "born in his house," and many more not born in his house. His servants of all ages were
probably MANY THOUSANDS. How did Abraham and Sarah contrive to hold fast so many thousand servants
against their wills? The most natural supposition is that the Patriarch and his wife "took
turns" in surrounding them! The neighboring tribes, instead of constituting a picket guard
to hem in his servants, would have been far more likely to sweep them and him into captivity,
as they did Lot and his household. Besides, there was neither "constitution" nor "compact,"
to send back Abraham's fugitives, nor a truckling police to pounce upon them, nor gentlemen-kidnappers,
suing for his patronage, volunteering to howl on their track, boasting their blood-hound scent,
and pledging their honour to hunt down and deliver up, provided they had a description of the
"flesh-marks," and were suitably stimulated by pieces of silver.[A] Abraham seems also to have
been sadly deficient in all the auxiliaries of family government, such as stocks, hand-cuffs,
foot-chains, yokes, gags, and thumb-screws. His destitution of these patriarchal indispensables
is the more afflicting, since he faithfully trained "his household to do justice and judgment,"
though so deplorably destitute of the needful aids.

[Footnote A: The following is a standing newspaper advertisement of one of these professional
man-catchers, a member of the New York bar, who coolly plies his trade in the commercial emporium,
sustained by the complacent greetings and courtesies of "HONORABLE MEN!" "IMPORTANT TO THE
SOUTH.--F.H. Pettis, native of Orange County, Va., being located in the city of New York, in
the practice of law, announces to his friends and the public in general, that he has been engaged
as Counsel and Adviser in General for a party whose business it is in the northern cities to
arrest and secure runaway slaves. He has been thus engaged for several years, and as the act
of Congress alone governs now in this city, in business of this sort, which renders it easy
for the recovery of such property, he invites post paid communications to him, inclosing a
fee of $20 in each case, and a power of Attorney minutely descriptive of the party absconded,
and if in the northern region, he, or she will soon be had.

"Mr. Pettis will attend promptly to all law business confided to him.

"N.B. New York City is estimated to contain 5,000 Runaway Slaves.

"PETTIS." ]

Probably Job had even more servants than Abraham. See Job. i. 3, 14-19, and xlii. 12. That
his thousands of servants staid with him entirely of their own accord, is proved by the fact
of their staying with him. Suppose they had wished to quit his service, and so the whole army
had filed off before him in full retreat, how could the patriarch have brought them to halt?
Doubtless with his wife, seven sons, and three daughters for allies, he would have soon out-flanked
the fugitive host and dragged each of them back to his wonted chain and staple.

But the impossibility of Job's servants being held against their wills, is not the only proof
of their voluntary condition. We have his own explicit testimony that he had not "withheld
from the poor their desire." Job. xxxi. 16. Of course he could hardly have made them live with
him, and forced them to work for him against their desire.

When Isaac sojourned in the country of the Philistines he "had great store of servants." And
we have his testimony that the Philistines hated him, added to that of inspiration that they
"envied" him. Of course they would hardly volunteer to organize patroles and committees of
vigilance to keep his servants from running away, and to drive back all who were found beyond
the limits of his plantation without a "pass!" If the thousands of Isaac's servants were held
against their wills, who held them?

The servants of the Jews, during the building of the wall of Jerusalem, under Nehemiah, may
be included under this head. That they remained with their masters of their own accord, we
argue from the fact, that the circumstances of the Jews made it impossible for them to compel
their residence and service. They were few in number, without resources, defensive fortifications,
or munitions of war, and surrounded withal by a host of foes, scoffing at their feebleness
and inviting desertion from their ranks. Yet so far from the Jews attempting in any way to
restrain their servants, or resorting to precautions to prevent escape, they put arms into
their hands, and enrolled them as a night-guard, for the defence of the city. By cheerfully
engaging in this service and in labor by day, when with entire ease they might all have left
their masters, marched over to the enemy, and been received with shoutings, the servants testified
that their condition was one of their own choice, and that they regarded their own interests
as inseparably identified with those of their masters. Neh. iv. 23.

VI. NO INSTANCES OF ISRAELITISH MASTERS SELLING SERVANTS. Neither Abraham nor Isaac seem ever
to have sold one, though they had "great store of servants." Jacob was himself a servant in
the family of Laban twenty-one years. He had afterward a large number of servants. Joseph invited
him to come into Egypt, and to bring all that he had with him--"thou and thy children, and
thy children's children, and thy flocks and thy herds, and ALL THAT THOU HAST." Gen. xlv. 10.
Jacob took his flocks and herds but no servants. Yet we are told that Jacob "took his journey
with all that he had." Gen. xlvi. 1. And after his arrival in Egypt, Joseph said to Pharaoh
"my father, and my brethren, and their flocks, and their herds and all that they have, are
come." Gen. xlvii. 1. The servants doubtless, served under their own contracts, and when Jacob
went into Egypt, they chose to stay in their own country.

The government might sell thieves, if they had no property, until their services had made good
the injury, and paid the legal fine. Ex. xxii. 3. But masters seem to have had no power to
sell their servants. To give the master a right to sell his servant, would annihilate the servant's
right of choice in his own disposal; but says the objector, "to give the master a right to
buy a servant, equally annihilates the servant's right of choice." Answer. It is one thing
to have a right to buy a man, and a quite another thing to have a right to buy him of another
man.[A]

[Footnote A: There is no evidence that masters had the power to dispose of even the services
of their servants, as men hire out their laborers whom they employ by the year; but whether
they had or not, affects not the argument.]

Though servants were not bought of their masters, yet young females were bought of their fathers.
But their purchase as servants was their betrothal as WIVES. Ex. xxi. 7, 8. "If a man sell
his daughter to be a maid-servant, she shall not go out as the men-servants do. If she please
not her master WHO HATH BETROTHED HER TO HIMSELF, he shall let her be redeemed."[B]

[Footnote B: The comment of Maimonides on this passage is as follows:--"A Hebrew handmaid might
not be sold but to one who laid himself under obligations, to espouse her to himself or to
his son, when she was fit to be betrothed."--Maimonides--Hilcoth--Obedim, Ch. IV. Sec. XI.
Jarchi, on the same passage, says, "He is bound to espouse her to be his wife, for the money
of her purchase is the money of her espousal."]

VII. VOLUNTARY SERVANTS FROM THE STRANGERS.

We infer that all the servants from the Strangers were voluntary in becoming such, since we
have direct testimony that some of them were so. "Thou shalt not oppress an hired servant that
is poor and needy, whether he be of thy brethren, OR OF THY STRANGERS that are in thy land
within thy gates." Deut. xxiv. 14. We learn from this that some of the servants, which the
Israelites obtained from the strangers were procured by presenting the inducement of wages
to their free choice, thus recognizing their right to sell their services to others, or not,
at their own pleasure. Did the Israelites, when they went among the heathen to procure servants,
take money in one hand and ropes in the other? Did they ask one man to engage in their service,
and drag along with them the next that they met, in spite of his struggles. Did they knock
for admission at one door and break down the next? Did they go through one village with friendly
salutations and respectful demeanor, and with the air of those soliciting favors, offer wages
to the inhabitants as an inducement to engage in their service--while they sent on their agents
to prowl through the next, with a kidnapping posse at their heels, to tear from their homes
as many as they could get within their clutches?

VIII. HEBREW SERVANTS VOLUNTARY.

We infer that the Hebrew servant was voluntary in COMMENCING his service, because he was preeminently
so IN CONTINUING it. If, at the year of release, it was the servant's choice to remain with
his master, the law required his ear to be bored by the judges of the land, thus making it
impossible for him to be held against his will. Yea more, his master was compelled to keep
him, however much he might wish to get rid of him.

IX. THE MANNER OF PROCURING SERVANTS, AN APPEAL TO CHOICE.

The Israelites were commanded to offer them a suitable inducement, and then leave them to decide. L'Oeuvre.

"After
a long disappearance from the scene, Sidonie, weary of the shady callings she had plied, and now
of a nunlike austerity, retired to the gloomy shelter of a conventual kind of establishment,
holding the purse-strings of the Oeuvre du Sacrament, an institution founded with the object of
assisting seduced girls, who had become mothers, to secure husbands."
Le Docteur Pascal.

ROUGON (VICTOR), son of Aristide Saccard and Rosaline Chavaille.

Brought up in the gutter, he was from the first incorrigibly lazy and vicious. La Mechain,
his mother's cousin, after discovering his paternity, told the facts to Caroline Hamelin, who,
to save Saccard annoyance, paid over a considerable sum and removed
the boy to L'Oeuvre du Travail, one of the institutions founded by
the Princess d'Orviedo.

Here every effort was made to reclaim him, but without success; vice and cunning had become his
nature. In the end he made a murderous attack upon Alice du Beauvilliers, who was visiting the
hospital, and having stolen her purse, made his escape. Subsequent search proved fruitless;
he had disappeared in the under-world of crime. L'Argent.

"In 1873, Victor had altogether vanished, living, no doubt, in the
shady haunts of crime-- since he was in no penitentiary-- let loose
upon the world like some brute foaming with the hereditary virus,
whose every bite would enlarge that existing evil-- free to work out
his own future, his unknown destiny, which was perchance the scaffold."

Le Docteur Pascal.

ROUGON (-----), the child of Doctor Pascal Rougon and of Clotilde Rougon, born some months after his
father's death. Pascal a few minutes before he died, drew towards him the genealogical tree of
the Rougon-Macquart family, over which he had spent so many years,
and in a vacant space wrote the words: "The unknown child, to be born
in 1874.

What will it be?" Le Docteur Pascal.

ROUSSEAU, one of the auditors of the Universal Bank, an office which he shared with Lavigniere,
under whose influence he was to a great extent. L'Argent.

ROUSSELOT (MONSEIGNEUR), Bishop of Plassans, an amiable but weak man, who was entirely under
the influence of Abbe Fenil. Having got into disfavour with the Government over the election
of a Legitimist as Deputy, he was anxious to retrieve his position, and with this object agreed to
appoint Abbe Faujas vicar of Saint-Saturnin's church. This led to a quarrel with Abbe Fenil,
who, of course, resented the appointment. The Bishop being still in some doubt as to the standing
of Abbe Faujas with the Government, went to Paris, where he interviewed Eugene Rougon, the
Minister of State. Satisfied with the information which he received, he threw himself heartily
into the political struggle then proceeding at Plassans, giving Faujas every assistance in
carrying out his schemes on behalf of the Bonapartist candidate.
La Conquete de Plassans.

ROUSSIE
(LA), a woman who had formerly worked as a putter in the Voreux pit.
Germinal.

ROUSTAN (ABBE), one of the clergy of Sainte-Eustache church. Madame Lisa Quenu consulted him as
to her proposed course of action regarding Florent. Le Ventre de
Paris.

ROUVET, an old peasant who lived in the same village as Zephyrin Lacour and Rosalie Pichon. One
of her pleasures consisted in calling to mind the sayings of the
old man. Une Page d'Amour.

ROZAN (DUC DE), was a young man of dissolute life, who, after getting
the control of his fortune, soon went through the greater part of it.

He was the lover of Renee Saccard for a time. La Curee.

ROZAN (DUCHESSE DE), mother of the preceding. She kept her son so short of money that, till he
was thirty-five, he seldom had more than a dozen louis at a time. Her death was largely occasioned
by the knowledge of the enormous amount of debts her son had incurred.
La Curee.

RUSCONI (CHEVALIER), the Sardinian Minister at Paris, a friend of Comtesse Balbi, and her daughter.
Son Excellence Eugene Rougon.

S SABATANI, a native of the Levant, who appeared in Paris after defaulting
on some foreign Stock Exchange.

He was a handsome man, and little by little gained the confidence of the Bourse "by scrupulous
correctness of behaviour and an unremitting graciousness even towards the most disreputable."
He began doing business with Mazard by depositing a small sum as "cover" in the belief that the
insignificance of the amount would in time be forgotten; and "he evinced great prudence, increasing the
orders in a stealthy gradual fashion, pending the day when, with a heavy settlement to meet, it would
be necessary for him to disappear." When Saccard founded the Universal Bank, he selected Sabatani
as the "man of straw" in whose name the shares held by the Bank itself were to be taken up. Sabatani
soon increased his speculations to an enormous extent, gaining large sums, but after the collapse
of the Universal Bank he disappeared without paying his "differences,"
thereby contributing largely to the ruin of Mazard.

L'Argent. SABOT, a vine-grower of Brinqueville. He was a renowned joker, who entered into a competition
with Hyacinthe Fouan, but was beaten by him. La Terre. SACCARD, the name assumed by Aristide
Rougon, on the suggestion of his brother Eugene.

See Rougon (Aristide). La Curee. SACCARD (VICTOR). See Victor Rougon. SAFFRE (DE), secretary
to Eugene Rougon, the Minister of State. La Curee.

SAGET (MADEMOISELLE), an old lady who had lived in the Rue Pirouette for forty years. She never spoke
about herself, but she spent her life in getting information about
her neighbours, carrying her prying curiosity so far as to listen
behind their doors and open their letters.

She went about all day pretending she was marketing, but in reality
merely spreading scandal and getting information.

By bullying little Pauline Quenu, she got a hint of Florent's past
history, which she promptly spread through the markets, even going
the length of writing an anonymous letter to the Prefect of Police.

Le Ventre de Paris.

SAINT-FIRMIN (OSCAR DE), a character in La Petite Duchesse, a play by Fauchery. The part was played by Prulliere.
Nana. SAINT-GERMAIN (MADEMOISELLE DE), was the owner of a princely house in Rue Saint-Lazare,
which after her death became the property of Princess d'Orviedo.
L'Argent.

SAINTS-ANGES (LA MERE DES), superior of the Convent of the Visitation at Clermont. She saved from
the cloister Christine Hallegrain, who had not a religious vocation, and obtained for her a situation
to Madame de Vanzade. L'Oeuvre. SALMON, a speculator on the Paris Bourse who passed for a man of extraordinary
acumen by listening to everyone and saying nothing.

He answered only by smiles, and one could never tell in what he was speculating or whether he
was speculating at all.

L'Argent. SALNEUVE (DE), a man of considerable importance in the Second Empire, whose influence was
secured for Eugene Rougon by Clorinde Balbi. Son Excellence Eugene
Rougon.

SAMBUC (GUILLAUME), one of the francs-tireurs who carried on a guerilla warfare against the Germans
in 1870. He was the worthy son of a family of scoundrels, and lived
by theft and rapine.

He furnished most valuable information to the French generals regarding
the movement of the Prussians to surprise Beaumont, but his information
was disregarded till too late.

The francs-tireurs had a particular hatred against Goliath Steinberg, the German spy, and, instigated
by Silvine Morange, Sambuc arranged for his capture, afterwards killing
him by cutting his throat.

La Debacle. SAMBUC (PROSPER), brother of the preceding. Of a nature docile and hard-working,
he hated the life of the woods, and would have liked to be a farm
labourer.

He entered the army and became one of the Chasseurs d'Afrique. Sent to France to take part in the
war against Germany, he shared in many weary marches, but saw no
fighting, till the battle of Sedan, when his horse, Zephir, which
he loved like a brother, was killed under him.

He made his escape after the battle, and having been able to change his uniform for the clothes of
a countryman, he returned to Remilly and got employment on the farm of Fouchard. La Debacle.
SANDORFF, a member of the Austrian Embassy at Paris. He married Mlle. de Ladricourt, who was much
younger than he. He was very niggardly. L'Argent. SANDORFF (BARONESS), wife of the Councillor
to the Austrian Embassy, who was thirty-five years older than herself. She was an inveterate
speculator, and, as her husband refused to assist her, she found
it necessary to have recourse to her lovers when her losses were greater
than usual.

She stopped
at nothing to gain information, and at one time was on intimate terms with Saccard. Having
quarrelled with him, she hastened the downfall of the Universal Bank, by giving information
to Gundermann which caused him to continue his attack on the Bank. L'Argent. SANDOZ (PERE), a
Spaniard who took refuge in France in consequence of a political disturbance in which he was
involved. He started near Plassans a paper mill with new machinery
of his own invention.

When he died, almost heart-broken by the petty local jealousy that had sought to hamper him in
every way, his widow found herself in a position so involved, and
burdened with so many tangled lawsuits, that the whole of her remaining
means were swallowed up.

L'Oeuvre.
SANDOZ MERE (MADAME), wife of the preceding, was a native of Burgundy. Yielding to her hatred of
the Provencals, whom she blamed for the death of her husband, and
even for the slow paralysis from which she herself was suffering,
she migrated to Paris, with her son Pierre, who then supported her
out of a clerk's small salary.

In Rue d'Enfer she occupied a single room on the same flat as her son, and there, disabled by
paralysis, lived in morose and voluntary solitude, surrounded by his tender care. Later, Pierre,
who was now married, and was making a considerable income, took a house in Rue Nollet, and there
Madame Sandoz passed her remaining years.

L'Oeuvre. SANDOZ (PIERRE), a famous novelist whose youth was spent at Plassans, where at school
he was the inseparable companion of Claude Lantier and Dubuche. The favourite amusement of the boys
was walking, and together they took long excursions, spending whole
days in the country.

After the death of his father Sandoz went to Paris, where he got employment at a small salary
at the Mairie of the fifth arrondissement, in the office for registration of births; he was chained
there by the thought of his mother, whom he had to support, and to whom he was tenderly attached.
Presently he published his first book: a series of mild sketches, brought with him from Plassans,
among which only a few rougher notes indicated the mutineer, the
lover of truth and power.

He lived at this time with his mother in a little house in Rue d'Enfer,
and there he received each Thursday evening his old friends from Plassans,
Claude Lantier and Dubuche, and with them Fagerolles, Mahoudeau, Jory,
Gagniere, now reunited at Paris, and all animated by the same passion
for art.

He was still obsessed by a desire for literary glory, and had thoughts of writing a poem on some
vast subject, but at last he hit on a scheme which soon took form in his mind. With reference
to it he said, "I am going to take a family, and I shall study its members, one by one, whence
they come, whither they go, how they react upon one another-- in short, humanity in a small compass,
the way in which humanity grows and behaves. On the other hand, I shall set my men and women
in a determined period of history, which will provide me with the necessary surroundings and
circumstances, a slice of history-- you understand, eh?

A series of fifteen or twenty books, episodes that will cling together although having each a separate
framework, a suite of novels with which I shall be able to build myself a house for my old age
if they don't crush me." The first of the novels met with some success, and Sandoz having resigned
his appointment, and put his trust entirely in literature, married a young girl named Henriette,
the daughter of middle-class parents, and removed his house to Rue Nollet. In course of time his
circumstances became still more comfortable, and he again removed to a large house in Rue de Londres.
When Claude Lantier fell into misery and despair, a gradual separation came about between him
and his friends, but Sandoz remained true to the old companionship. He was one of the few mourners
who attended the funeral of the unfortunate artist. L'Oeuvre. SANDOZ (MADAME HENRIETTE), wife of
the preceding. She was an orphan, the daughter of a small shop-keeper, without a penny, but
pretty and intelligent. She occupied herself much with the affairs of the kitchen, being specially
proud of some of her dishes. Even later, when the family was more prosperous and had removed
to a large flat in Rue de Londres, Henriette continued to take personal charge, out of affection for
her husband, whose only fault was a tendency to gluttony. L'Oeuvre. SANQUIRINO (DUCHESSE), a lady
of the Italian aristocracy, who resided at Paris. She gave Eugene Rougon very unsatisfactory information
regarding Comtesse Balbi and her daughter Clorinde. Son Excellence Eugene Rougon. SANS-POUCE,
one of the brigands of the band of Beau-Francois. La Terre. SAPIN, sergeant in Captain Beaudoin's
company of the 106th Regiment of the line. "The son of a Lyons grocer in a small way of business,
spoilt by his mother, who was dead, and unable to get on with his father, he had remained in the
regiment disgusted with everything, but unwilling to be bought out." Later he became engaged
to one of his cousins, who had a small dowry, and began to take
an interest in life. During the march to Sedan, however, he became
impressed with the idea that he would be killed, and this belief was
realized during the fighting on 1st September, 1870.

La Debacle. SAPIN (LA), a disreputable old woman at Magnolles who performed illegal operations and
pretended to work magic. SARRIET (MADAME), sister of Madame Lecoeur and of Madame Gavard; mother
of La Sarriette. Le Ventre de Paris. SARRIET, usually called La
Sarriette, was the niece of Madame Lecoeur.

She grew up in the markets and her sympathies were with the lower
ranks of the people.

At twenty
she set up in business as a fruit-dealer, and took as her lover a young man named Jules, who was employed
by her aunt as a porter. After the arrest of Gavard, her uncle by marriage, La Sarriette and her
aunt divided his money between them. Le Ventre de Paris. SARTEUR, a journeyman hatter at Plassans. He
was afflicted with homicidal mania, and was confined for a time in the asylum at Tulettes. While
there he was treated by Doctor Pascal Rougon, who affected a cure
by hypodermic injections of a substance with which he had long experimented.

Sarteur was released from the asylum, but the cure was not permanent, for a few months afterwards
the unfortunate man became conscious of a return of his homicidal mania, and, to prevent its operation,
hanged himself.

Le Docteur Pascal. SATIN, a friend of Nana from childhood, having,
like her, attended the school of Mademoiselle Josse.

She was a regular customer at Laure Piedefer's restaurant, where she met Madame Robert. She
lived for a time with Nana, of whom she was intensely jealous, and in time gained control of
the whole household. She died in the hospital of Lariboisiere. Nana. SAUCISSE (LA PERE), an old
peasant of Rognes, who owned an acre of land which he sold to Pere
Fouan for an annuity of fifteen sous a day.

In order to dupe the old man, he pretended to be in bad health. Later, terrorized by Buteau, he
cancelled the agreement, and repaid half the sums he had received.
La Terre.

SAUVAGNAT, a friend of Pluchart. He lived at Marchiennes. Germinal. SAUVAGNAT,
chief of the depot at Havre, lived in a cottage near the engine depot,
which his sister Philomene kept for him, but greatly neglected.

He was an obstinate man and a strict disciplinarian, greatly esteemed by
his superiors, but had met with the utmost vexation on account of
his sister, even to the point of being threatened with dismissal.

If the Company bore with her now on his account, he only kept her
with him because of the family tie; but this did not prevent him belabouring
her so severely with blows whenever he caught her at fault that he
frequently left her half dead on the floor.

La Bete Humaine. SAUVAGNAT (PHILOMENE), sister of the preceding, was a tall, thin woman of thirty-two,
who after numerous love-affairs had settled down with Pecqueux, whose mistress she became. She had
the reputation of drinking. A subsequent intrigue between her and Jacques Lantier excited
the jealousy of Pecqueux to the point of murder. La Bete Humaine. SAUVEUR (MADAME), a dress-maker,
who numbered Madame Desforges among her customers.

She frequented Mouret's shop, Au Bonheur des Dames, on the occasions of great sales, purchasing large
quantities of stuff which she afterwards sold to her own customers at higher prices. Au Bonheur
des Dames. SAUVIGNY (DE), judge of the race for the Grand Prix de Paris. Nana. SCHLOSSER, a speculator
on the Paris Bourse. He was secretly associated with Sabatani, with whom he carried out many schemes to their
mutual advantage. L'Argent. SCOTS (H. R. H. THE PRINCE OF). See Ecosse. SEDILLE, a native of Lyons, who
established himself in Paris, and after thirty years'toil succeeded
in making his silk business one of the best known in the city.

Unfortunately he acquired a passion for gambling, and a couple of successful ventures made him
altogether lose his head. From that time he neglected his business, and ruin lay inevitably at
the end. On the invitation of Saccard he became a Director of the Universal Bank. Like the other
Directors, he speculated largely in the shares of the Bank; but,
unlike most of them, he did not sell in time, with the result that
he was completely ruined, and his bankruptcy followed.

L'Argent. SEDILLE (GUSTAVE), son of M. Sedille, the silk merchant. To the disappointment of his
father, he despised commercial pursuits, and cared only for pleasure. In the hope that he might
take an interest in finance, he was given a situation in the office of Mazard, the stockbroker,
where, however, he did little work, and soon engaged in speculations
on his own account.

The failure of the Universal Bank
left him penniless, and deep in debt.

L'Argent. SICARDOT (COMMANDER),
the father-in-law of Aristide Rougon. He had the strongest intellect
of the politicians who met in Pierre Rougon's yellow drawing-room.
He was taken prisoner by the insurgents at the time of the Coup d'Etat.
La Fortune des Rougon. SICARDOT, the name of Aristide Rougon's wife's
family. He adopted this name when he went to Paris in 1851, using it
for considerable time before he again changed it to Saccard. L'Argent.
SICARDOT (ANGELE). See Madame Aristide Rougon. SIDONIE (MADAME), the name
by which Sidonie Rougon (q. v.) was generally known. La Curee. SIMON
(LA MERE), an old woman who assisted Severine Roubaud in her housework.

La Bete Humaine. SIMONNOT,
a grocer at Raucourt. His premises were raided by the Bavarians after
the Battle of Beaumont. La Debacle. SIMPSON, an American who was
attache at his country's Embassy at Paris. The promise of the servant to pay
the debt on condition that the time for payment should be postponed, not only proceeds upon
the fact that his time was his own, that he was constantly earning property or in circumstances
that enabled him to earn it, and that he was the proprietor of his earnings, but that his master
had full knowledge of that fact.--In a word, the supposition that the master was the owner
of the servant, would annihilate all legal claim upon him for value received, and that the
servant was the property of the master, would absolve him from all obligations of debt, or
rather would always forestall such obligations--for the relations of owner and creditor in
such case, would annihilate each other, as would those of property and debtor. The fact that
the same servant was the creditor of one of his fellow servants, who owed him a considerable
sum, and that at last he was imprisoned until he should pay all that was due to his master,
are additional corroborations of the same point.

IV. HEIRSHIP.--Servants frequently inherited their master's property; especially if he had
no sons, or if they had dishonored the family. Eliezer, the servant of Abraham, Gen. xv. 23;
Ziba, the servant of Mephibosheth; Jarha, the servant of Sheshan, who married his daughter,
and thus became his heir, he having no sons, and the husbandmen who said of their master's
son, "this is the HEIR, let us kill him, and the INHERITANCE WILL BE OURS," are illustrations;
also Prov. xxx. 23, an handmaid (or maid-servant,) that is heir to her mistress; also Prov.
xvii. 2--"A wise servant shall have rule over a son that causeth shame, and SHALL HAVE PART
OF THE INHERITANCE AMONG THE BRETHREN." This passage gives servants precedence as heirs, even
over the wives and daughters of their masters. Did masters hold by force, and plunder of earnings,
a class of persons, from which, in frequent contingencies, they selected both heirs for their
property, and husbands for their daughters?

V. ALL WERE REQUIRED TO PRESENT OFFERINGS AND SACRIFICES. Deut. xvi. 16, 17; 2 Chron. xv. 9-11;
Numb. ix. 13, 14. Beside this, "every man" from twenty years old and above, was required to
pay a tax of half a shekel at the taking of the census; this is called "an offering unto the
Lord to make an atonement for their souls." Ex. xxx. 12-16. See also Ex. xxxiv. 20. Servants
must have had permanently the means of acquiring property to meet these expenditures.

VI. SERVANTS WHO WENT OUT AT THE SEVENTH YEAR, WERE "FURNISHED LIBERALLY." Deut. xv. 10-14.
If the fact that the Gentile servants did not receive such a gratuity proves that they were
robbed of their earnings, it proves that the most valued class of Hebrew servants were robbed
of theirs also; a conclusion too stubborn for even pro-slavery masticators, however unscrupulous.

[Footnote A: The comment of Maimonides on this passage is as follows--"'Thou shalt furnish
him liberally,' &c. That is to say, 'Loading, ye shall load him,' likewise every one of his
family with as much as he can take with him--abundant benefits. And if it be avariciously asked,
'How much must I give him?' I say unto you, not less than thirty shekels, which is the valuation
of a servant, as declared in Ex. xxi. 32."--Maimonides, Hilcoth Obedim, Chap. ii. Sec. 3.]

VII. SERVANTS WERE BOUGHT. In other words, they received compensation in advance.[A] Having
shown, under a previous head, that servants sold themselves, and of course received the compensation
for themselves, except in cases where parents hired out the time of their children till they
became of age,[B] a mere reference to the fact is all that is required for the purposes of
this argument. As all the strangers in the land were required to pay an annual tribute to the
government, the Israelites might often "buy" them as family servants, by stipulating with them
to pay their annual tribute. This assumption of their obligations to the government might cover
the whole of the servant's time of service, or a part of it, at the pleasure of the parties.

[Footnote A: But, says the objector, if servants received their pay in advance, and if the
Israelites were forbidden to surrender the fugitive to his master, it would operate practically
as a bounty offered to all servants who would leave their master's service encouraging them
to make contracts, get their pay in advance and then run away, thus cheating their masters
out of their money as well as their own services.--We answer, the prohibition, Deut xxiii.
15. 16, "Thou shalt not deliver unto his master," &c., sets the servant free from his authority
and of course, from all those liabilities of injury, to which as his servant, he was subjected,
but not from the obligation of legal contracts. If the servant had received pay in advance,
and had not rendered an equivalent for this "value received," he was not absolved from his
obligation to do so, but he was absolved from all obligations to pay his master in that particular
way, that is, by working for him as his servant.]

[Footnote B: Among the Israelites, girls became of age at twelve, and boys at thirteen years.]

VIII. THE RIGHT OF SERVANTS TO COMPENSATION IS RECOGNISED IN Ex. xxi. 27. "And if he smite
out his man-servant's, or his maid-servant's tooth, he shall let him go free for his tooth's
sake." This regulation is manifestly based upon the right of the servant to the use of himself
and all this powers, faculties and personal conveniences, and consequently his just claim for
remuneration, upon him, who should however unintentionally, deprive him of the use even of
the least of them. If the servant had a right to his tooth and the use of it, upon the same
principle, he had a right to the rest of his body and the use of it. If he had a right to the
fraction, and if it was his to hold, to use, and to have pay for; he had a right to the sum
total, and it was his to hold, to use, and to have pay for.

IX. WE FIND MASTERS AT ONE TIME HAVING A LARGE NUMBER OF SERVANTS, AND AFTERWARDS NONE, WITH
NO INTIMATION IN ANY CASE THAT THEY WERE SOLD. The wages of servants would enable them to set
up in business for themselves. Jacob, after being Laban's servant for twenty-one years, became
thus an independent herdsman, and had many servants. Gen. xxx. 43; xxxii. 16. But all these
servants had left him before he went down into Egypt, having doubtless acquired enough to commence
business for themselves. Gen. xlv. 10, 11; xlvi. 1-7, 32. The case of Ziba, the servant of
Mephibosheth, who had twenty servants, has been already mentioned.

X. GOD'S TESTIMONY TO THE CHARACTER OF ABRAHAM. Gen. xviii. 19. "For I know him that he will
command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep THE WAY OF THE LORD TO
DO JUSTICE AND JUDGMENT." God here testifies that Abraham taught his servants "the way of the
Lord." What was the "way of the Lord" respecting the payment of wages where service was rendered?
"Wo unto him that useth this neighbor's service WITHOUT WAGES!" Jer. xxii. 13. "Masters, give
unto your servants that which is JUST AND EQUAL." Col. iv. 1. "Render unto all their DUES."
Rom. xiii. 7. "The laborer is WORTHY of HIS HIRE." Luke x. 7. How did Abraham teach his servants
to "do justice" to others? By doing injustice to them? Did he exhort them to "render to all
their dues" by keeping back their own? Did he teach them that "the laborer was worthy of his
hire" by robbing them of theirs? Did he beget in them a reverence for honesty by pilfering
all their time and labor? Did he teach them "not to defraud" others "in any matter" by denying
them "what was just and equal?" If each of Abraham's pupils under such a catechism did not
become a very Aristides in justice, then illustrious examples, patriarchal dignity, and practical
lessons, can make but slow headway against human perverseness!

XI. SPECIFIC PRECEPTS OF THE MOSAIC LAW ENFORCING GENERAL PRINCIPLES. Out of many, we select
the following: (1.) "Thou shalt not muzzle the ox when he treadeth out the corn." These indications
of the former presence of men appeared to grow more frequent as she went on; and at length
she came out into a small opening in the forest in the midst of which stood a roughly-constructed
log-house, or shanty, with a regularly-formed bark roof still standing. The remains of smaller
and less durable shanties were also visible in the vicinity of the former. [Footnote: Colonel
Hawks, while traversing the wilderness of Vermont, in the French wars, with a regular force, among
whom was the then Captain John Stark, once encamped near the foot of the mountain, in the south
part of Cavendish, where the incident we are narrating is supposed to have occurred. The mountain
still bears the name of Hawks's Mountain, and the traces of the encampment, it is said are still
visible.] With a cautious and hesitating step, Miss Haviland drew
near to this rude structure, and at once perceived, by the appearance
of the unguarded loop-hole window, and the open entrance, before which
the untrodden wild weeds were growing, that it was untenanted.

Approaching still nearer, and peering into the window, she discovered, in one corner of the deserted
apartment, a comfortable-looking bed, composed of branches of the hemlock, which she rightly concluded
had been collected and used by hunters, who occasionally made the place their quarters for the
night. Immediately concluding to avail herself of the advantages which this shelter and primitive couch
seemed to promise for obtaining the rest her exhausted system so much needed, she entered, and,
throwing herself down on the soft and yielding boughs, soon surrendered herself to the influence
of the grateful repose, and fell asleep. She was soon, however, awakened-- by what she knew not,
unless by the feeling of uneasiness and apprehension, by which she now found herself unaccountably
agitated. She had heard, or read, of those mysterious intimations, by which, it is said, we
sometimes instinctively become apprised of impending danger, when there is no apparent cause
for apprehension, and when reason utters no warning. If such instances ever in reality occurred, this
might be one of them; or the impression might have been unconsciously received from actual
sounds, which came from foes now secretly lurking near, and which, as it is known often to be
the case, had fallen on her slumbering ear, and disturbed and troubled, without fully awakening
her. But whatever the cause of the strange foreboding, the effect soon became too strong and exciting
to permit her longer to remain passive. And she arose to examine the apartment, and see what
precautions could be taken to render it more safe against the intrusion of enemies, whether they
should come in the shape of men or wild beasts. Did God declare the poor stranger entitled to RELIEF, and in the same
breath, authorize them to "use his service without wages;" force him to work and ROB HIM OF
HIS EARNINGS?

IV.--WERE MASTERS THE PROPRIETORS OF SERVANTS AS LEGAL PROPERTY?

This topic has been unavoidably somewhat anticipated, in the foregoing discussion, but a variety
of additional considerations remain to be noticed.

I. SERVANTS WERE NOT SUBJECTED TO THE USES NOR LIABLE TO THE CONTINGENCIES OF PROPERTY. 1 They
were never taken in payment for their masters' debts. Children were sometimes taken (without
legal authority) for the debts of a father. 2 Kings iv. 1; Job xxiv. 9; Isa. l. 1; Matt. xviii.
25. Creditors took from debtors property of all kinds, to satisfy their demands. Job xxiv.
3, cattle are taken; Prov. xxii. 27, household furniture; Lev. xxv. 25-28, the productions
of the soil; Lev. xxv. 27-30, houses; Ex. xxii. 26, 27; Deut. xxiv. 10-13; Matt. v. 40, clothing;
but servants were taken in no instance. 2. Servants were never given as pledges. Property of
all sorts was pledged for value received; household furniture, clothing, cattle, money, signets,
personal ornaments, &c., but no servants. 3. Servants were not put into the hands of others,
or consigned to their keeping. The precept giving directions how to proceed in a case where
property that has life is delivered to another "to keep," and "it die or be hurt or driven
away," enumerates oxen, asses, sheep or "any beast," but not "servants." Ex. xxii. 10. 4. All
lost property was to be restored. Oxen, asses, sheep, raiment, and "all lost things," are specified--servants
not. Deut. xxii 1-3. Besides, the Israelites were forbidden to return the runaway servant.
Deut. xxiii, 15. 5. Servants were not sold. When by flagrant misconduct, unfaithfulness or
from whatever cause, they had justly forfeited their privilege of membership in an Israelitish
family, they were not sold, but expelled from the household. Luke xvi. 2-4; 2 Kings v. 20,
27; Gen. xxi. 14. 6 The Israelites never received servants as tribute. At different times all
the nations round about them were their tributaries and paid them annually large amounts. They
received property of all kinds in payment of tribute. Gold, silver, brass, iron, precious stone,
and vessels, armor, spices, raiment, harness, horses, mules, sheep, goats, &c., are in various
places enumerated, but servants, never. 7. The Israelites never gave away their servants as
presents. They made costly presents, of great variety. Lands, houses, all kinds of domestic
animals, beds, merchandize, family utensils, precious metals, grain, honey, butter, cheese,
fruits, oil, wine, raiment, armor, &c., are among their recorded gifts. Giving presents to
superiors and persons of rank, was a standing usage. 1 Sam. x. 27; xvi. 20; 2 Chron. xvii.
5. Abraham to Abimelech, Gen. xxi. 27; Jacob to the viceroy of Egypt, Gen. xliii. 11; Joseph
to his brethren and father, Gen. xlv. 22, 23; Benhadad to Elisha, 2 Kings viii. 8, 9; Ahaz
to Tiglath Pilezer, 2 Kings vi. 8; Solomon to the Queen of Sheba, 1 Kings x. 13; Jeroboam to
Ahijah, 1 Kings xiv. 3; Asa to Benhadad, 1 Kings xv. 18, 19. Abigail the wife of Nabal to David,
1 Sam. xxv. 18. David to the elders of Judah, 1 Sam. xxx. 26. Jehoshaphat to his sons, 2. Chron.
xxi. 3. The Israelites to David, 1. Chron. xii. 39, 40. Shobi Machir and Barzillai to David,
2 Sam. xvii. 28, 29. But no servants were given as presents, though it was a prevailing fashion
in the surrounding nations. Gen. xii. 16, xx. 14. In the last passage we are told that Abimelech
king of the Philistines "took sheep and oxen and men servants and women servants and gave them
unto Abraham." Not long after this Abraham made Abimelech a present, the same kind with that
which he had received from him except that he gave him no servants. In its photographic application,
it is, alone, of very little use; but in combination with other reagents it becomes exquisitely
sensitive. With gallic acid and the ferrocyanate of potash it forms two of the most sensitive
photographic solutions with which we are acquainted. These are used
in the calotype process.

IODURET
OF SILVER.-- If upon a plate of polished silver we place a small piece of iodine, and apply the
heat of a lamp beneath the plate for a moment, a system of rings is speedily formed. The first
ring, which spreading constantly forms the exterior of the circle, is of a bright yellow color;
within this, there arises, successively, rings of green, red and blue colors, and then again
a fine yellow circle, centred by a greyish spot on the place occupied by the iodine. On exposing
these to the light, the outer yellow circle almost instantly changes color, the others slowly,
in the order of their position, the interior yellow circle resisting for a long time the solar
influence. These rings must be regarded as films of the ioduret of silver, varying, not only
in thickness, but in the more or less perfect states of combination in which the iodine and metal
are. The exterior circle is an ioduret in a very loose state of chemical agregation; the attractive
forces increase as we proceed towards the centre, where a well formed ioduret, or probably
a true iodide of silver, is formed, which is acted upon by sunlight with difficulty. The exterior and
most sensitive film constitutes the surface of Daguerreotype plates. The changes which these colored
rings undergo are remarkable; by a few minutes exposure to sunlight, an inversion of nearly
all the colors takes place, the two first rings becoming a deep olive green; and a deep blue
inclining to black.

The nature of the change which the ioduret of silver undergoes on Daguerreotype plates, through
the action of light, Mr. Hunt considers to be a decided case of decomposition, and cites several circumstances
in proof of his position. These with other facts given by Mr. Hunt in his great work on the
Photographic art, but to voluminous to include in a volume of the size to which I am obliged
to confine myself, should be thoroughly studied by all Daguerreotypists.

PRISMATIC ANALYSIS.-- The most refrangible portion of the spectrum, (on a Daguerreotype plate) appears,
after the plate has been exposed to the vapor of mercury, to have impressed its colors; the
light and delicate film of mercury, which covers that portion, assuming a fine blue tint about
the central parts, which are gradually shaded off into a pale grey; and this is again surrounded
by a very delicate rose hue, which is lost in a band of pure white. Beyond this a protecting
influence is powerfully exerted; and notwithstanding the action of the dispersed light, which
is very evident over the plate, a line is left, perfectly free from mercurial vapor, and which,
consequently, when viewed by a side light, appears quite dark. The green rays are represented by
a line of a corresponding tint, considerably less in size than the luminous green rays. The yellow
rays appear to be without action, or to act negatively, the space upon which they fall being
protected from the mercurial vapor; and it consequently is seen as a dark band. A white line
of vapor marks the place of the orange rays. The red rays effect the sensitive surface in a peculiar
manner; and we have the mercurial vapor, assuming a molecular arrangement which gives to it a fine
rose hue; this tint is surrounded by a line of white vapor, shaded at the lowest extremity with
a very soft green. Over the space occupied by the extreme red rays, a protecting influence is again
exerted; the space is retained free from mercurial vapor and the band is found to surround
the whole of the least refrangible rays, and to unite itself with the band which surrounds
the rays of greatest refrangibility. This band is not equally well defined throughout its whole extent.
It is most evident from the extreme red to the green; it fades in passing through the blue, and
increases again, as it leaves the indigo, until beyond the invisible chemical rays it is nearly
as strong as it is at the calorific end of the spectrum.

Images on Daguerreotype plates which have been completely obliterated by rubbing may be restored,
by placing it in a tolerably strong solution of iodine in water.

BROMIDE OF SILVER.-- This salt, like the iodide, does not appear to be readily changed by the action
of light; but when combined with the nitrate of silver it forms a very sensitive photographic
preparation.

Paper prepared with this salt, blackens over its whole extent with nearly equal intensity, when submitted
to the prismatic spectrum. The most characteristic peculiarity of the spectrum is its extravagant
length. Instead of terminating at the mean yellow ray, the darkened portion extends down to
the very extremity of the visible red rays. In tint it is pretty uniformly of a grey-black
over its whole extent, except that a slight fringe of redness is perceptible at the least
refracted end. Beyond the red ray, an extended space is protected from the agency of the dispersed
light, and its whiteness maintained; thus confirming the evidence of some chemical power in action,
over a space beyond the luminous spectrum, which corresponds with
the rays of the least refrangibility.

This
salt is extensively used in photographic drawing.

PREPARATIONS OF GOLD.-- Chloride of Gold, freed from an excess of acid is slowly changed under the
action of light; a regularly increasing darkness taking place until it becomes purple, the
first action of the light being to whiten the paper, which, if removed from the light at this
stage, will gradually darken and eventually develope the picture. This process may be quickened
by placing the paper in cold water.

Chloride of gold with nitrate of silver gives a precipitate of a yellow brown color. Paper impregnated
with the acetate of lead, when washed with perfectly neutral chloride of gold, acquires a brownish-yellow
hue. The first impression of light seems rather to whiten than darken the paper, by discharging
the original color, and substituting for it a pale greyish tint, which by slow degrees increases
to a dark slate color; but if arrested, while yet, not more than a moderate ash grey, and held
in a current of steam, the color of the parts acted upon by light-- and of that only-- darkens immediately
to a deep purple.

Here I must leave the subject of the action of light upon metalic compounds-- referring to Mr.
Hunts work for any further information the student may desire on the other metals-- as I find
myself going beyond my limits. I cannot, however, entirely dismiss the subject without giving
a few examples of the action of light on the juices of plants, some of which produce very good
photographic effect.

CORCHORUS JAPONICA-- The juice of the flowers of this plant impart a fine yellow color to paper,
and, so far as ascertained, is the most sensitive of any vegetable preparation; but owing to
its continuing to change color even in the dark, photographic images taken on paper prepared with
it soon fade out.

WALL FLOWER.-- This flower yields a juice, when expressed with alcohol,
from which subsides, on standing, a bright yellow finely divided faecula,
leaving a greenish-yellow transparent liquid, only slightly colored
supernatant.

The faecula spreads well on paper, and is very sensitive to light, but appears at the same time
to undergo a sort of chromatic analysis, and to comport itself as if composed of two very distinct
coloring principles, very differently affected.

The one on which the intensity and sub-orange tint of the color depends, is speedily destroyed, but
the paper is not thereby fully whitened. A paler yellow remains as a residual tint, and this on
continued exposure to the light, slowly darkens to brown. Exposed to the spectrum, the paper is
first reduced nearly to whiteness in the region of the blue and violet rays. More slowly, an insulated
solar image is whitened in the less refrangible portion of the red. Continue the exposure, and a
brown impression begins to be percieved in the midst of the white streak, which darkens slowly
over the region between the lower blue and extreme violet rays.

THE RED POPPY yields a very beautiful red color, which is entirely destroyed by light. When perfectly
dried on paper the color becomes blue. This blue color is speedily discharged by exposure to
the sun's rays, and papers prepared with it afford very interesting photographs.-- Future experiments
will undoubtedly more fully develope the photogenic properties of flowers, and practically apply
them.

Certain precautions are necessary in extracting the coloring matter of flowers. The petals of fresh
flowers, carefully selected, are crushed to a pulp in a mortar, either alone or with the addition
of a little alcohol, and the juice expressed by squeezing the pulp in a clean linen or cotton
cloth. It is then to be spread upon paper with a flat brush, and dried in the air. If alcohol be
not added, it must be applied immediately, as the air changes or
destroys the color instantly.

Most
flowers give out their coloring matter to alcohol or water-- but the former is found to weaken,
and in some cases to discharge altogether these colors; but they are in most cases restored
in drying. Paper tinged with vegetable colors must be kept perfectly
dry and in darkness.

To secure an eveness of tint on paper it should be first moistened on the back by sponging,
and blotting off with bibulous paper. It should then be pinned on a board, the moist side
downwards, so that two of its edges-- the right and lower ones-- project a little over those
of the board. Incline the board twenty or thirty degrees to the horizon, and apply the tincture with
a brush in strokes from right to left, taking care not to go over the edges which rests on the
board, but to pass clearly over those that project; and also observing to carry the tint from
below upwards by quick sweeping strokes, leaving no dry spaces between them. Cross these with
other strokes from above downwards, leaving no floating liquid on the paper. Dry as quickly as
possible, avoiding, however, such heat as may injure the tint.

CHAP. IV.

A FEW HINTS AND SUGGESTIONS TO DAGUERREOTYPISTS.

There are very few who may not be capable of practising the Photographic art, either on paper,
or metalic plates-- but, like all other professions, some are more clever in its various processes
than others.

Impatience is a great drawback to perfect success, and combined with laziness is a decided
enemy. Besides this, no one can excel in Photography who does not possess a natural taste
for the fine arts, who is not quick in discerning grace and beauty-- is regardless of the principles
of perspective, foreshortening and other rules of drawing, and who sets about it merely for
the sake of gain-- without the least ambition to rise to the first rank, both in its practice and
theory. There is no profession or trade in which a slovenly manner will not show itself, and none
where its effects will be more apparent than this.

In order to be great in any pursuit, we must be ourselves, and keep all things, in order. In
your show and reception rooms, let neatness prevail; have your specimens so placed-- leaning slightly
forward-- as to obtain the strongest light upon them, and at the same time prevent that glassiness
of appearance which detracts so materially from the effect they are intended to produce. If
possible, let the light be of a north-western aspect, mellowed by curtains of a semitransparent
hue. Your show-cases, at the door, should be kept well cleaned. I have often been disgusted
while attempting to examine portraits in the cases of our artists, at the greasy coating and marks
of dirty fingers upon the glass and frame enclosing them.

Believe it, many a good customer is lost for no other reason.

In your operating room, dust should be carefully excluded. It should be furnished with nothing
apt to collect and retain dust; a carpet is therefore not only a useless article, but very improper.
A bare floor is to be prefered; but if you must cover it use matting. There is no place about
your establishment where greater care should be taken to have order and cleanliness; for it
will prevent many failures often attributed to other causes. "A place for every thing, and
every thing in its place," should be an absolute maxim with all artists. Do not oblige the ladies,
on going away from your rooms, to say-- "That H. is a slovenly man; see how my dress is ruined by
sitting down in a chair that looked as if it had just come out of a porter house kitchen and had not
been cleaned for six months."

In choosing your operating room, obtain one with a north-western aspect, if possible; and either
with, or capable of having attached, a large skylight. Good pictures may be taken without the
sky-light, but not the most pleasing or effective.

A very important point to be observed, is to keep the camera perfectly free from dust. The operator
should be careful to see that the slightest particle be removed, for the act of inserting
the plate-holder will set it in motion, if left, and cause those
little black spots on the plate, by which an otherwise good picture
is spoiled.

The camera should be so placed as to prevent the sun shining into
the lenses.

In taking portraits, the conformation of the sitter should be minutely studied to enable you
to place her or him in a position the most graceful and easy to be obtained. The eyes should
be fixed on some object a little above the camera, and to one side-- but never into, or on the
instrument, as some direct; the latter generally gives a fixed, silly, staring, scowling or
painful expression to the face. Care should also be taken, that the hands and feet, in whatever
position, are not too forward or back ward from the face when that
is in good focus.

If any large surface of white is present, such as the shirt front,
or lady's handkerchief, a piece of dark cloth (a temporary bosom of
nankeen is best,) may be put over it, but quickly withdrawn when the
process is about two thirds finished.

A very pleasing effect is given to portraits, by introducing, behind the sitter, an engraving or other
picture-- if a painting, avoid those in which warm and glowing tints predominate. The subject of these
pictures may be applicable to the taste or occupation of the person whose portrait you are
taking. This adds much to the interest of the picture, which is otherwise frequently dull, cold
and inanimate.

Mr. J. H. Whitehurst of Richmond, Va., has introduced a revolving background, which is set
in motion during the operation, and produces a distinctness and boldness in the image not otherwise
to be obtained. The effect upon the background of the plate is equally pleasing; it having the appearance
of a beautifully clouded sky.

In practising Photographic drawing on paper, the student must bear in mind that it is positively
essential, to secure success in the various processes, to use the utmost precaution in spreading
the solutions, and washes from the combination of which the sensitive surfaces result. The same
brush should always be used for the same solution, and never used for any other, and always
washed in clean water after having been employed. Any metalic mounting on the brushes should
be avoided, as the metal precipitates the silver from its solution. The brushes should be made
of camels or badger's hair and sufficiently broad and large to cover the paper in two or three
sweeps; for if small ones be employed, many strokes must be given, which leave corresponding
streaks that will become visible when submitted to light, and spoil
the picture.

These few preliminary hints and suggestions, will, I trust, be of some service to all who adopt this
pleasing art as a profession; and will, with a due attention to the directions given in the
practical working of the Daguerreotype, Calotype, etc., ensure a corresponding measure of
success.

CHAP.

V. DAGUERREOTYPE APPARATUS.

The entire Daguerreotype process is comprised in seven distinct operations;
viz: 1.-- Cleaning and polishing the plate.

2.-- Applying the sensitive coating.

3-- Submitting the plate to the action of light in the camera.

4.-- Bringing out the picture; in other words rendering it visible.

5.-- Fixing the image, or making it permanent-- so that the light
may no longer act upon it.

6.-- Gilding: or covering the picture with a thin film of gold--
which not only protects it, but greatly improves its distinctness
and tone of color.

7.-- Coloring
the picture. For these various operations the following articles-- which make up the entire apparatus
of a Daguerrean artist-- must be procured 1.-- THE CAMERA.-- (Fig.
5.).

The Camera Obscura of the Italian philosophers, although highly appreciated,
on account of the magical character of the pictures it produced, remained
little other than a scientific toy, until the discovery of M. Daguerre.

The value of this instrument is now great, and the interest of the process which it so essentially
aids, universally admitted.

A full description of it will
therefore be interesting. The camera is a dark box (a), having a tube with lenses
(b) placed in one end of it, through which the radiations from external objects
pass, and form a diminished picture upon the ground glass (g) placed at
the proper distance in the box to receive it; the cap c covering the
lenses at b until the plate is ready to receive the image of the object
to be copied.

Thus a (fig. 6.)
representing the lens, and b the object desired to be represented, the
rays (c, c) proceeding from it fall upon the lens, and are transmitted
to a point, which varies with the curvature of the glass, where an
inverted image (d) of b is very accurately formed. At this point, termed
the focus, the sensitive photographic material is placed for the purpose
of obtaining the required picture.

The great desideratum in a photographic camera is perfect
lenses. They should be achromatic, and the utmost transparency should
be obtained; and under the closest inspection of the glass not the slightest
wavy appearance, or dark spot should be detected; and a curvature which as
much as possible prevents spherical aberration should be secured. The
effect produced by this last defect is a convergence of perpendiculars,
as for instance; two towers of any building, would be represented
as leaning towards each other; and in a portrait the features would
seem contracted, distorted and mingled together, so as to throw the
picture out of drawing and make it look more like a caricature than
a likeness.

If
the lens be not achromatic, a chromatic aberration takes place, which
produces an indistinct, hazy appearance around the edges of the picture,
arising from the blending of the rays. The diameter and focal length
of a lens must depend in a great measure on the distance of the object,
and also on the superficies of the plate or paper to be covered. For
portraits one of 1 1/ 2 inches diameter, and from 4 1/ 2 to 5 1/ 2 inches focus
may be used; but for distant views, one from 2 inches to 3 inches
diameter, and from 8 to 12 inches focal length will answer much better.
For single lenses, the aperture in front should be placed at a distance
from it, corresponding to the diameter, and of a size not more than
one third of the same. A variety of movable diaphragms or caps, to
cover the aperture in front, are very useful, as the intensity of
the light may be modified by them and more or less distinctness and
clearness of delineation obtained.

These
caps alway come with Voitlander instruments and should be secured
by the purchaser. Though the single acromatic lens answers very well
for copying engravings; taking views from nature or art, for portraits the
double should always be used. The extensive manufacture of the most
approved cameras, both in Europe and in this country, obviates all necessity
for any one attempting to construct one for their own use. Lenses are
now made so perfect by some artisans that, what is called the "quick
working camera" will take a picture in one second, while the ordinary
cameras require from eight to sixty. The camera in most general use is
that manufactured by Voitlander and Son of Germany. Their small size
consists of two seperate acromatic lenses; the first, or external one, has
a free aperture of 1 1/ 2 inches; the second, or internal, 1 5/ 8 inches;
and both have the same focus, viz: 5 3/ 4 inches.

The larger size differs from the smaller. The inner
lens is an achromatic 3 1/ 4 inches diameter, its focal length being 30
inches. The outer lens is a meniscus-- that is bounded by a concave
and convex spherical surface which meet-- having a focal length of
18 inches. For every distant view, the aperture in front is contracted
by a diaphram to 1/ 8 of an inch. By this means the light is reflected
with considerable intensity and the clearness and correctness of the
pictures are truly surprising.

THE AMERICA
instruments are constructed on the same principle and many of them
are equally perfect. 5; vi.
14. 2. They had the exclusive possession of the land of Goshen,[B] "the best part of the land"
of Egypt. Gen. xlv. 18; xlvii. 6, 11, 27; Ex. viii. 22; ix. 26; xii. 4. Goshen must have been
at a considerable distance from those parts of Egypt inhabited by the Egyptians; so far at
least as to prevent their contact with the Israelites, since the reason assigned for locating
them in Goshen was, that shepherds were "an abomination to the Egyptians;" besides, their employments
would naturally lead them out of the settled parts of Egypt to find a free range of pasturage
for their immense flocks and herds. 3. They lived in permanent dwellings. These were houses,
not tents. In Ex. xii. 7, 22, the two side posts, and the upper door posts, and the lintel
of the houses are mentioned. Each family seems to have occupied a house by itself. Acts vii.
20. Ex. xii. 4--and judging from the regulation about the eating of the Passover, they could
hardly have been small ones, Ex. xii. 4; probably contained separate apartments, as the entertainment
of sojourners seems to have been a common usage. Ex. iii. 23; and also places for concealment.
Ex. ii. 2, 3; Acts vii. 20. They appear to have been well apparelled. Ex. xii. 11. 4. They
owned "flocks and herds," and "very much cattle." Ex. xii. 4, 6, 32, 37, 38. From the fact
that "every man" was commanded to kill either a lamb or a kid, one year old, for the Passover,
before the people left Egypt, we infer that even the poorest of the Israelites owned a flock
either of sheep or goats. Further, the immense multitude of their flocks and herds may be judged
of from the expostulation of Moses with Jehovah. Num. xii. 21, 22. As these six hundred thousand
were only the men "from twenty years old and upward, that were able to go forth to war," Ex.
i. 45, 46; the whole number of the Israelites could not have been less than three millions
and a half. Flocks and herds to "suffice" all these for food, might surely be called "very
much cattle." 5. They had their own form of government, and preserved their tribe and family
divisions, and their internal organization throughout, though still a province of Egypt, and
tributary to it. Ex. ii. 1; xii. 19, 21; vi. 14, 25; v. 19; iii. 16, 18. 6. They had in a considerable
measure, the disposal of their own time. Ex. iii. 16, 18; xii. 6; ii. 9; and iv. 27, 29-31.
They seem to have practised the fine arts. Ex. xxxii. 4; xxxv. 22, 35. 7. They were all armed.
Ex. xxxii. 27. 8. They held their possessions independently, and the Egyptians seem to have
regarded them as inviolable. No intimation is given that the Egyptians dispossessed them of
their habitations, or took away their flocks, or herds, or crops, or implements of agriculture,
or any article of property. 9. All the females seem to have known something of domestic refinements.
They were familiar with instruments of music, and skilled in the working of fine fabrics. Ex.
xv. 20; xxxv. 25, 26; and both males and females were able to read and write. Deut. xi. 18-20;
xvii. 19; xxvii. 3. 10. Service seems to have been exacted from none but adult males. Nothing
is said from which the bond service of females could be inferred; the hiding of Moses three
months by his mother, and the payment of wages to her by Pharaoh's daughter, go against such
a supposition. Ex. ii. 29. 11. Their food was abundant and of great variety. So far from being
fed upon a fixed allowance of a single article, and hastily prepared, "they sat by the flesh-pots,"
and "did eat bread to the full." Ex. xvi. 3; and their bread was prepared with leaven. Ex.
xii. 15, 39. They ate "the fish freely, the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the
onions, and the garlic." Num. xi. 4, 5; xx. 5. Probably but a small portion of the people were
in the service of the Egyptians at any one time. The extent and variety of their own possessions,
together with such a cultivation of their crops as would provide them with bread, and such
care of their immense flocks and herds, as would secure their profitable increase, must have
kept at home the main body of the nation. During the plague of darkness, God informs us that
"ALL the children of Israel had light in their dwellings." We infer that they were there to
enjoy it. See also Ex. ix. 26. It seems improbable that the making of brick, the only service
named during the latter part of their sojourn in Egypt, could have furnished permanent employment
for the bulk of the nation. See also Ex. iv. 29-31. Besides, when Eastern nations employed
tributaries, it was as now, in the use of the levy, requiring them to furnish a given quota,
drafted off periodically, so that comparatively but a small portion of the nation would be
absent at any one time. The adult males of the Israelites were probably divided into companies,
which relieved each other at stated intervals of weeks or months. It might have been during
one of these periodical furloughs from service that Aaron performed the journey to Horeb. Ex.
iv. 27. At the least calculation this journey must have consumed eight weeks. Probably one-fifth
part of the proceeds of their labor was required of the Israelites in common with the Egyptians.
Gen. xlvii. 24, 26. Instead of taking it from their crops, (Goshen being better for pasturage)
they exacted it of them in brick making; and labor might have been exacted only from the poorer
Israelites, the wealthy being able to pay their tribute in money. The fact that all the elders
of Israel seem to have controlled their own time, (See Ex. iv. 29; iii. 16; v. 20,) favors
the supposition. Ex. iv. 27, 31. Contrast this bondage of Egypt with American slavery. Have
our slaves "flocks and herds even very much cattle?" Do they live in commodious houses of their
own, "sit by the flesh-pots," "eat fish freely," and "eat bread to the full"? Do they live
in a separate community, in their distinct tribes, under their own rulers, in the exclusive
occupation of an extensive tract of country for the culture of their crops, and for rearing
immense herds of their own cattle--and all these held inviolable by their masters? Are our
female slaves free from exactions of labor and liabilities of outrage? or when employed, are
they paid wages, as was the Israelitish woman by the king's daughter? Have they the disposal
of their own time, and the means for cultivating social refinements, for practising the fine
arts, and for personal improvement? THE ISRAELITES UNDER THE BONDAGE OF EGYPT, ENJOYED ALL
THESE RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES. True, "all the service wherein they made them serve was with rigor."
But what was this when compared with the incessant toil of American slaves; the robbery of
all their time and earnings, and even the "power to own any thing, or acquire any thing?" a
"quart of corn a-day," the legal allowance of food![C] their only clothing for one half the
year, "one shirt and one pair of pantaloons!"[D]two hours and a half only, for rest and refreshment
in the twenty-four![E]--their dwellings, hovels, unfit for human residence, with but one apartment,
where both sexes and all ages herd promiscuously at night, like the beasts of the field.[F]
Add to this, the ignorance, and degradation;[G] the daily sunderings of kindred, the revelries
of lust, the lacerations and baptisms of blood, sanctioned by law, and patronized by public
sentiment. What was the bondage of Egypt when compared with this? And yet for her oppression
of the poor, God smote her with plagues, and trampled her as the mire, till she passed away
in his wrath, and the place that knew her in her pride, knew her no more. Ah! "I have seen
the afflictions of my people, and I have heard their groanings, and am come down to deliver
them." HE DID COME, and Egypt sank a ruinous heap, and her blood closed over her. If such was
God's retribution for the oppression of heathen Egypt, of how much sorer punishment shall a
Christian people be thought worthy, who cloak with religion a system, in comparison with which
the bondage of Egypt dwindles to nothing? Let those believe who can, that God commissioned
his people to rob others of all their rights, while he denounced against them wrath to the
uttermost, if they practised the far lighter oppression of Egypt--which robbed its victims
of only the least and cheapest of their rights, and left the females unplundered even of these.
What! Is God divided against himself? When He had just turned Egypt into a funeral pile; while
his curse yet blazed upon her unburied dead, and his bolts still hissed amidst her slaughter,
and the smoke of her torment went upwards because she had "ROBBED THE POOR," did He license
the VICTIMS of robbery to rob the poor of ALL? As Lawgiver, did he create a system tenfold
more grinding than that for which he had just hurled Pharaoh headlong, and overwhelmed his
princes and his hosts, till "hell was moved to meet them at their coming?"

[Footnote C: See law of North Carolina, Haywood's Manual 524-5. To show that slaveholders are
not better than their laws. We give a few testimonies. Rev. Thomas Clay, of Georgia, (a slaveholder,)
in an address before the Georgia presbytery, in 1834, speaking of the slave's allowance of
food, says:--"The quantity allowed by custom is a peck of corn a week." The Maryland Journal
and Baltimore Advertiser of May 30, 1788, says, "a single peck of corn a week, or the like
measure of rice, is the ordinary quantity of provision for a hard-working slave; to which a
small quantity of meat is occasionally, though rarely, added."

The Gradual Emancipation Society of North Carolina, in their Report for 1836, signed Moses
Swaim, President, and William Swaim, Secretary, says, in describing the condition of slaves
in the Eastern part of that State, "The master puts the unfortunate wretches upon short allowances,
scarcely sufficient for their sustenance, so that a great part of them go half naked and half
starved much of the time." See Minutes of the American Convention, convened in Baltimore, Oct.
25, 1826.

Rev. John Rankin, a native of Tennessee, and for many years a preacher in slave states, says
of the food of slaves, "It often happens that what will barely keep them alive, is all that
a cruel avarice will allow them. Hence, in some instances, their allowance has been reduced
to a single pint of corn each, during the day and night. And some have no better allowance
than a small portion of cotton seed; while perhaps they are not permitted to taste meat so
much as once in the course of seven years. Thousands of them are pressed with the gnawings
of cruel hunger during their whole lives." Rankin's Letters on Slavery, pp. 57, 58.

Hon. Robert J. Turnbull, of Charleston, S.C., a slaveholder, says, "The subsistence of the
slaves consists, from March until August, of corn ground into grits, or meal, made into what
is called hominy, or baked into corn bread. The other six months, they are fed upon the sweet
potatoe. Meat, when given, is only by way of indulgence or favor." See "Refutation of the Calumnies
circulated against the Southern and Western States," by a South Carolinian. Charleston, 1822. 

It rarely has that rounded development of character which is as desirable
in a home as in a person.

In
selecting a rented home in the suburbs, the cost of the husband's transportation to and from
the city should be added to the rent to keep this within the proper ratio to income, just as
the difference in price of provisions should be considered in that portion allotted to food.
Provisions, even country produce, are often dearer in suburban communities
than in the city, and less saving can be made by close marketing,
because the farmers and gardeners find it more profitable to send
their produce to the center of greatest demand, and therefore of readiest
sale, even though it costs more for transportation than to the smaller
markets near by.

So suburban grocers and provision men are wont to buy in the city markets, and add the cost of
transportation back from the city, and an additional profit for the transaction, to the price
to the consumer.

Owing to the close competition for householders among real-estate men, it is now almost as easy
to purchase a suburban home as it is to rent one, and it is therefore advisable to do this. The
interest on purchase, and the fixed charges of taxes, insurance,
water rent, etc., should be counted as rent, but a higher percentage
of income may be safely allotted to these than to rent proper, since
the purchase is also an investment.

As a rule, the increase of land value near a growing city will considerably exceed the diminution
in the value of the improvements. Indeed, owing to the constant advance of cost of building
material in recent years, there is often enhancement rather than
depreciation in the house value.

For
these economic reasons it is advisable to buy an old house when its cost is less than the cost
of constructing a new one of the same desirability. The home-seeker, however, should curb his propensity
to make extensive alterations, for, one leading to another, he will find at the end (if he ever
reaches it) that he has virtually built a new house at a cost greater
than he could afford.

On
the other hand, he should avoid those houses built on speculation to sell. In these a showy
appearance is gained at the expense of durability of construction, and the purchaser will find
that he must pay in plumbing, coal bills, and general repairs an amount he had not calculated
upon as interest on the home, for, unless he rebuilds the house at ruinous expense, these will
be annual charges.

The most satisfactory way, and the one leading to great enjoyment
in satisfying the "nest-building" instinct which possesses newly mated
people no less than birds, is for the owners themselves to plan and
superintend the building of the home.

There is an infinite variety of architectural plans spread before the homeseeker in books and magazines.
An examination of these will be of great value to him in clarifying his hazy ideas, but he
should not settle upon any one of them without expert opinion. He should employ a local architect,
or at least a builder with practical architectural ideas, to examine every feature of the plan
selected as nearest the homeseeker's ideal, and revise it according to local conditions, cost
and availability of material, etc. Money is always well spent that relieves one of responsibility,
enabling him to say thereafter, "Well, I did every thing I could
to have the thing done properly."

The
woman's wish should be paramount in planning the building. The home is her workshop, and she
should have every convenience she requires to do her work properly. Things that appear of minor
importance to a man, the architect and builder no less than her husband,
are to her most vital.

What pockets are to a man or business woman in clothes, closets and shelves are to a woman
in her house, and yet she usually has to fight for them with the architect as the business woman does
for pockets with her dressmaker. Unless she has worked out the practicability of her ideas, however,
she will be at a great disadvantage with the experts, and therefore it is wise for her to make
herself as familiar as possible with the main principles of building and the special details
of the improvements she desires, especially as this knowledge will be of great use in seeing that
the work is done as ordered. Where she has not acquired this knowledge, and the husband is either
incompetent or not free to undertake this supervision, it is well
to employ a contractor, arranging for thorough, satisfactory work,
and holding him strictly to the contract.

The prime requisite in a house is that it be adapted for home life, be a comfortable place in
which to sleep, cook, eat, rest and read, talk and laugh, and play and pray; in a word, in
which to do all the work that enables these necessities and pleasures to be obtained. Next to
the comfort of the family comes that of the outside world.

It is desirable, though not essential, that the home contain facilities
for entertaining.

The parts that are desirable in a well-ordered house may be enumerated
as follows: Cellar, the kitchen, the storehouse, the pantry, the laundry,
the dining-room, the living or sitting-room, the lavatory, the parlor,
the hall, the library, the nursery, the sewing-room, the bedrooms,
including guest chamber, the attic, the piazzas.

Where economy of space must be practiced, storehouse and pantry may
be combined, and nursery and sewing-room; and one of the family bedrooms
may be devoted to the use of the occasional guest.

The hall may be thrown into the parlor. The parlor may be properly converted into a library and
music room, although when the father is of retiring literary tastes, he should have a "den"
of his own, where he may read and smoke in peace.

The parlor is too often wasted space in a house. As the "best room," and very often the largest
room, it is reserved for reception of guests, weddings, and funerals, and at other times shut
up in gloomy grandeur from the family, except, perhaps, as the place
of banishment for a naughty child.

Except when used as a library and music room, it should be one of the smallest in the house,
and may, indeed, be entirely dispensed with. The family living-room is not an improper place
in which to receive a guest, especially one whom it is desired should
"feel at home."

Of the rooms for the family, the nursery is the best to dispense with, the very young children
being kept under the mother's oversight in her sewing-room, or the
attic, or a loft in an out-building being fitted up for the elder
ones as a play-room.

In the case of the loft, it is well to equip it as a simple gymnasium.

It is mistaken economy to use the living-room as a dining-room, since this interferes with the orderly
work of the house, no less than with the comfort of the family. It may with propriety, however,
be made also the sewing-room, and, in general, the mother's managerial office. Here she should
keep her desk and her household account-books, and meet the tradesmen and other business callers. It
is also more suited than the parlor for use as a family reading-room and working library.
Disorder that betokens use, such as magazines on the center-table, or of papers on the desk, is
here not inappropriate.

Indeed, it gives a homelike appearance even to the social guest.

China and glassware and silver arranged in proper array in wall closets, cabinets, and sideboards
are the most appropriate decorations of the dining-room. It is not at all necessary that there
should be pictures on the wall of game, fruit and flowers, or "still life" studies of vegetables
and kitchen utensils. Indeed, these have become so expected that a change is quite a relief
to a guest, who would welcome even the death's head that was the
invariable ornament of the Egyptian feasts.

Any pictures which are lively and cheerful in suggestion are suitable. Those that have a story
to tell or a lesson to point are never out of place in a room frequented
by children.

For convenience the table-linen should be kept in drawers or lockers built beneath the shelves
containing the china. A butler's pantry is not an essential when such arrangements as these
are made.

The kitchen, pantry, storeroom, and laundry form, as it were, the "factory" of the house, with
the range as the central "engine." Accordingly they should be planned with respect to each
other to save steps. Fortunately this means also saving expense in construction. Architects have
been most ingenious as well as practical in perfecting these arrangements, and the housebuilder,
therefore, needs no advice from us.

It cannot be too much emphasized, however, that the cellar is, from the standpoints of sanitation
and comfort, the most important part of the house. There should be no attempt to save expense
by limiting its proper size, materials for walls, windows for ventilation, drainage, etc., for
money so saved will inevitably be paid out many times over in coal bills, doctor's fees, and,
perhaps, undertaker's bills.

A dry cellar must be secured at all costs, for the air from it permeates the whole house. Where
this is damp, it leads not alone to disease among the inmates, but to the disintegration of the
house itself, through what is called "dry rot," but is paradoxically
the result of dampness.

Edgar Allan Poe, in his weird story, "The Fall of the House of Usher,"
has given a mystical interpretation of the dissolution of an old homestead
which really has a scientific explanation that might be found in the
cellar.

The proper floor of a cellar is a layer of broken stones in which tile drains are laid, having
outlets into a common drain, and over which a layer of concrete is placed, The walls, of plastered
stone, brick, or concrete, should rise above the ground far enough to permit small windows,
and prevent the admission of surface water from rain or snow. These windows should open from
within, upward, and there should be hooks on the ceiling to keep
them open for ventilation.

Where a house is heated by a furnace, the style of this should be selected with great care, special
regard being had to the economy of fuel. The systems of steam-heating, hot-water heating, or
hot-air heating have each their merits, depending on the location of the house and the climate
of the region. The cellar can also be used as a storeroom for those things not affected by the
heat of the furnace, such as perishable food requiring an ice-box or a cool place, vegetables, especially
those with a penetrating odor; apples, canned fruit and goods, etc.,
should be kept here, and barrels of commodities, such as vinegar,
that are bought in large quantities.

Shelves should be built on the walls and hooks hung on the rafters to increase the facilities
for storage. Articles hung upon the hooks should be tied in paper bags. It is well to have
the cellar ceiled, to keep out the dust of the house and reduce the risk of fire. Here, of course,
is the natural place for the coal-bin, and, when there are no out-buildings, the man's workshop.
The laundry may also be placed in the cellar, and, in stormy weather,
the clothes hung there to dry.

In the country the cellar is a good place in which to build an ice-vault.

The kitchen should, of course, be airy and sunny. The sink should be placed near a south window,
if possible, to prevent freezing of pipes. An iron sink is more cleanly than a wooden one, and
cheaper than porcelain and copper. It should have a platform with room for two dishpans, and a drying
shelf, raised at one end to permit drainage. Where economy of space is essential, this shelf may
be removable, permitting the use for other things of the table beneath.

Two other tables are necessary in a proper kitchen equipment, one
covered with zinc for a work-table, set near the range, and the other
a plain table set near the dining-room, for the prepared dishes.

There should be three lights, lamps in brackets, gas-jets, or electric bulbs, near the sink, range
and food-table respectively. The refrigerator should be put outside the kitchen, in some such place
as a sheltered part of the back piazza. Commodities such as tea and coffee, not requiring ice,
should be kept in covered jars, preferably earthen, on a dresser or shelf, where the bread-box may
also stand. There should be a kitchen closet for the flour-barrel and sugar-box, which should be
covered for further protection from dust, flies, dampness, etc., and for the canned goods
in immediate requisition.

The stove or range should be selected with reference on the one hand to the amount of cooking
to be done for the family, and on the other to the saving of fuel.

Where
there is a water supply, of course there should be a boiler connected
with the range. This should be large enough to assure a sufficient supply
of hot water for the house.

There should be a shelf near the range for such articles as the pepper-box and salt-box which are
in constant use in cooking, and hooks should be near at hand for
hanging up the poker, lid-lifter, and a coarse towel for use in taking
pans from the oven.

Other shelves and hooks, of course, should be put in for the various utensils
necessary in the kitchen. The floor of the kitchen should be covered
with a good quality of linoleum. A perforated rubber mat may be placed
at the sink, although this is not necessary.

In fact, it is a better plan for the woman in the kitchen, as indeed elsewhere, to get rubber
heels for her shoes.

The Arabs have a proverb that to him who is shod it is as if the whole world were covered with
leather, and rubber heels similarly cause every floor in the house, whether bare or carpeted,
to be equally easy to the feet of the busy housewife. The laundry should be supplied with two tubs,
an ironing-table, an ironing-board, and a stove for the boiler and the irons. The ironing-board should
be supported upon two "horses" of the height of the table. The table should be supplied with an
iron-rest.

In a well-planned house there should be separate bedrooms for every inmate except the very small
children. It is quite an economy in the care of the house that each child, at as early an age
as possible, should have its own room and be taught to take care
of it.

Since the room is designed primarily for sleeping, care should be taken that the bed be placed in
such a position that the light falls from behind the sleeper's head. The dresser should be so
placed that the light falls on the face of the occupant of the room when he is looking into the mirror.
Even at the expense of space in the bedroom proper, there should be a large closet in every sleeping-room.
The deeper the closet the better, for, by using rods attached to
the back of the closet and projecting through its width, whereon clothes-hangers
may be strung, far more room will be obtained for clothes than where
hooks and nails are employed.

By the use of these clothes-hangers, too, suits and dresses may be kept in much better order.
The top of the closet may be occupied by one broad, high shelf, whereon hats and bonnets may
be kept in their proper receptacles. Shoes should be kept in a drawer at the bottom of the
closet, rather than thrown on the floor beneath the dresser. It is a mistake to substitute a curtain for
the door of the closet, since it is of the first importance to keep the clothing free from dust. Shelves
are better than closets for the keeping of the bed linen. It is a handy thing to have a separate
linen closet in the house, but this is not essential. The sewing-room of the mother is a suitable
place for keeping the linen. Shelves are preferable to closets for this purpose. There should also
be a medicine closet or locker in the mother's room which will be handy in case of sudden illness
among the children. In view of the importance of sanitation, more thought than is ordinarily allotted
to it should be given to the lavatory.

Where there is room to spare, it is best to have the bath separate from the toilet, in order
to prevent inconvenience in use. There should be a basin and toilet upon the ground floor, and
a bathroom and toilet upon the sleeping floor. The walls of the lavatory should be tiled, or, if this
is too expensive, they should be covered with water-proof paper. All toilet arrangements should
be systematically kept clean, and the necessary supplies at all times
provided.

Piazzas may be made to add no less to the utility than to the beauty and comfort of the house.
A lower back piazza, covered with vines, is the ideal place in summer for eating and such heating
labors as ironing. When thoroughly secured from intrusion, an upper balcony furnishes the best of sleeping
quarters for one wise and brave enough to scout the superstition
of the bad effects of night air. We
mean the special care of Isaac to inform Jacob that those "given to him as servants" were "HIS
BRETHREN," (twice repeated.) The deep veneration of slaveholders for every thing patriarchal,
clears them from all suspicion of designedly neglecting this authoritative precedent, and their
admirable zeal to perpetuate patriarchal fashions, proves this seeming neglect, a mere oversight:
and is an all-sufficient guarantee that henceforward they will religiously illustrate in their
own practice, the beauty of this hitherto neglected patriarchal usage. True, it would be an
odd codicil to a will, for a slaveholder, after bequeathing to some of his children, all his
slaves, to add a supplement, informing them that such and such and such of them were their
brothers and sisters. Doubtless it would be at first a sore trial also, but what pious slaveholder
would not be sustained under it by the reflection that he was humbly following in the footsteps
of his illustrious patriarchal predecessors!

Great reformers must make great sacrifices, and if the world is to be brought back to the purity
of patriarchal times, upon whom will the ends of the earth come, to whom will all trembling
hearts and failing eyes spontaneously turn as leaders to conduct the forlorn hope through the
wilderness to that promised land, if not to slaveholders, those disinterested pioneers whose
self-denying labors have founded far and wide the "patriarchal institution" of concubinage,
and through evil report and good report, have faithfully stamped their own image and superscription,
in variegated hues, upon the faces of a swarming progeny from generation to generation. ]

OBJECTION I. "Cursed be Canaan, a servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren." Gen. ix. 25.

This prophecy of Noah is the vade mecum of slaveholders, and they never venture abroad without
it; it is a pocket-piece for sudden occasion, a keepsake to dote over, a charm to spell-bind
opposition, and a magnet to draw to their standard "whatsoever worketh abomination or maketh
a lie." But "cursed be Canaan" is a poor drug to ease a throbbing conscience--a mocking lullaby
to unquiet tossings. Those who justify negro slavery by the curse on Canaan, assume as usual
all the points in debate. 1. That slavery was prophesied, rather than mere service to others,
and individual bondage rather than national subjection and tribute. 2. That the prediction
of crime justifies it; or at least absolves those whose crimes fulfil it. How piously the Pharaohs
might have quoted the prophecy, "Thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs,
and they shall afflict them four hundred years." And then, what saints were those that crucified
the Lord of glory! 3. That the Africans are descended from Canaan. Africa was peopled from
Egypt and Ethiopia, which countries were settled by Mizraim and Cush. For the location and
boundaries of Canaan's posterity, see Gen. x. 15-19. So a prophecy of evil to one people, is
quoted to justify its infliction upon another. Perhaps it may be argued that Canaan includes
all Ham's posterity. If so, the prophecy is yet unfulfilled. The other sons of Ham settled
Egypt and Assyria, and, conjointly with Shem, Persia, and afterward, to some extent, the Grecian
and Roman empires. The history of these nations gives no verification of the prophecy. Whereas,
the history of Canaan's descendants for more than three thousand years, is a record of its
fulfillment. First, they were put to tribute by the Israelites; then by the Medes and Persians;
then by the Macedonians, Grecians and Romans, successively; and finally, were subjected by
the Ottoman dynasty, where they yet remain. Thus Canaan has been for ages the servant mainly
of Shem and Japhet, and secondarily of the other sons of Ham. It may still be objected, that
though Canaan alone is named, yet the 22d and 24th verses show the posterity of Ham in general
to be meant. "And Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his YOUNGER son had done unto him,
and said," &c. It is argued that this "younger son" cannot be Canaan, as he was the grandson
of Noah, and therefore it must be Ham. We answer, whoever that "younger son" was, Canaan alone
was named in the curse. Besides, the Hebrew word Ben, signifies son, grandson, or any one of
the posterity of an individual.[A] "Know ye Laban, the SON (grandson) of Nahor?" Gen. xxix.
5. "Mephibosheth the SON (grandson) of Saul." 2 Sam. xix. 24; 2 Sam. ix. 6. "The driving of
Jehu the SON (grandson) of Nimshi." 2 Kings ix. 20. See also Ruth iv. 17; 2 Sam. xxi. 6; Gen.
xxxi. 55. Shall we forbid the inspired writer to use the same word when speaking of Noah's
grandson? Further, Ham was not the "younger son." The order of enumeration makes him the second
son. If it be said that Bible usage varies, the order of birth not always being observed in
enumerations; the reply is, that, enumeration in that order, is the rule, in any other order
the exception. Besides, if a younger member of a family takes precedence of older ones in the
family record, it is a mark of pre-eminence, either in endowments, or providential instrumentality.
Abraham, though sixty years younger than his eldest brother, stands first in the family genealogy.
Nothing in Ham's history shows him pre-eminent; besides, the Hebrew word Hakkatan rendered
"the younger," means the little, small. The same word is used in Isa. lx. 22. "A LITTLE ONE
shall become a thousand." Isa. xxii. 24. "All vessels of SMALL quantity." Ps. cxv. 13. "He
will bless them that fear the Lord both SMALL and great." Ex. xviii, 22. "But every SMALL matter
they shall judge." It would be a literal rendering of Gen. ix. 24, if it were translated thus,
"when Noah knew what his little son,"[B] or grandson (Beno Hakkatan) "had done unto him, he
said cursed be Canaan," &c. Further, even if the Africans were the descendants of Canaan, the
assumption that their enslavement fulfils this prophecy, lacks even plausibility, for, only
a fraction of the inhabitants of Africa have at any time been the slaves of other nations.
If the objector say in reply, that a large majority of the Africans have always been slaves
at home, we answer: It is false in point of fact, though zealously bruited often to serve a
turn; and if it were true, how does it help the argument? The prophecy was, "Cursed be Canaan,
a servant of servants shall he be unto his BRETHREN.," not unto himself!

[Footnote A: So av, the Hebrew word for father, signifies any ancestor, however remote. 2 Chron.
xvii. 3; xxviii. 1; xxxiv. 2; Dan. v. 2.]

[Footnote B: The French follows the same analogy; grandson being petit fils (little son.)]

OBJECTION II.--"If a man smite his servant or his maid with a rod, and he die under his hand,
he shall surely be punished. Notwithstanding, if he continue a day or two, he shall not be
punished, for he is his money." Ex. xxi. 20, 21. What was the design of this regulation? Was
it to grant masters an indulgence to beat servants with impunity, and an assurance, that if
they beat them to death, the offence should not be capital? This is substantially what commentators
tell us. What Deity do such men worship? Some blood-gorged Moloch, enthroned on human hecatombs,
and snuffing carnage for incense? Did He who thundered from Sinai's flames, "THOU SHALT NOT
KILL," offer a bounty on murder? Whoever analyzes the Mosaic system, will often find a moot
court in session, trying law points, settling definitions, or laying down rules of evidence.
Num. xxxv. 10-22; Deut. xix. 4-6; Lev. xxiv. 19-22; Ex. xxi. 18, 19, are some of the cases
stated, with tests furnished the judges by which to detect the intent, in actions brought before
them. Their ignorance of judicial proceedings, laws of evidence, &c., made such instructions
necessary. The detail gone into, in the verses quoted, is manifestly to enable them to get
at the motive and find out whether the master designed to kill. 1. "If a man smite his servant
with a rod."--The instrument used, gives a clue to the intent. See Num. xxxv. 16-18. A rod,
not an axe, nor a sword, nor a bludgeon, nor any other death-weapon--hence, from the kind of
instrument, no design to kill would be inferred; for intent to kill would hardly have taken
a rod for its weapon. But if the servant "die under his hand," then the unfitness of the instrument,
is point blank against him; for, striking with a rod so as to cause death, presupposed very
many blows and great violence, and this kept up till the death-gasp, showed an intent to kill.
Hence "He shall surely be punished." But if he continued a day or two, the length of time that
he lived, the kind of instrument used, and the master's pecuniary interest in his life, ("he
is his money,") all made a strong case of presumptive evidence, showing that the master did
not design to kill. Further, the word nakam, here rendered punished, occurs thirty-five times
in the Old Testament, and in almost every place is translated "avenge," in a few, "to take
vengeance," or "to revenge," and in this instance ALONE, "punish." As it stands in our translation,
the pronoun preceding it, refers to the master, whereas it should refer to the crime, and the
word rendered punished, should have been rendered avenged. The meaning is this: If a man smite
his servant or his maid with a rod, and he die under his hand, IT (the death) shall surely
be avenged, or literally, by avenging it shall be avenged; that is, the death of the servant
shall be avenged by the death of the master. So in the next verse, "If he continue a day or
two," his death is not to be avenged by the death of the master, as in that case the crime
was to be adjudged manslaughter, and not murder. In the following verse, another case of personal
injury is stated, for which the injurer is to pay a sum of money; and yet our translators employ
the same phraseology in both places! One, an instance of deliberate, wanton, killing by piecemeal;
the other, an accidental, and comparatively slight injury--of the inflicter, in both cases,
they say the same thing! Now, just the discrimination to be looked for where GOD legislates,
is marked in the original. In the case of the servant wilfully murdered, He says, "It (the
death) shall surely be avenged," that is, the life of the wrong doer shall expiate the crime.
The same word is used in the Old Testament, when the greatest wrongs are redressed, by devoting
the perpetrators to destruction. In the case of the unintentional injury, in the following
verse, God says, "He shall surely be fined, (anash.) "He shall pay as the judges determine."
The simple meaning of the word anash, is to lay a fine. It is used in Deut. xxii. 19: "They
shall amerce him in one hundred shekels," and in 2 Chron. xxxvi. That avenging the death of
the servant, was neither imprisonment, nor stripes, nor a fine but that it was taking the master's
life we infer, 1. From the use of the word nakam. See Gen. iv. 24; Josh. x. 13; Judg. xv. 7;
xvi. 28; 1 Sam. xiv. 24; xviii. 25; xxv. 31; 2 Sam. iv. 8; Judg. v. 2; 1 Sam. xxv. 26-33. 2.
From the express statute, Lev. xxiv. 17: "He that killeth ANY man shall surely be put to death."
Also, Num. xxxv. 30, 31: "Whoso killeth ANY person, the murderer shall be put to death. 3.
The Targum of Jonathan gives the verse thus, "Death by the sword shall surely be adjudged."
The Targum of Jerusalem, "Vengeance shall be taken for him to the uttermost." Jarchi, the same.
The Samaritan version: "He shall die the death." Again, the clause "for he is his money," is
quoted to prove that the servant is his master's property, and therefore, if he died, the master
was not to be punished. The assumption is, that the phrase, "HE IS HIS MONEY," proves not only
that the servant is worth money to the master, but that he is an article of property. If the
advocates of slavery insist upon taking this principle of interpretation into the Bible, and
turning it loose, let them stand and draw in self-defence. If they endorse for it at one point,
they must stand sponsors all around the circle. It will be too late to cry for quarter when
its stroke clears the table, and tilts them among the sweepings beneath. The Bible abounds
with such expressions as the following: "This (bread) is my body;" "all they (the Israelites)
are brass and tin;" this (water) is the blood of the men who went in jeopardy of their lives;"
"the Lord God is a sun;" "the seven good ears are seven years;" "the tree of the field is man's
life;" "God is a consuming fire;" "he is his money," &c. A passion for the exact literalities
of the Bible is too amiable, not to be gratified in this case. The words in the original are
(Káspo-hu,) "his silver is he." The objector's principle of interpretation is a philosopher's
stone! Its miracle touch transmutes five feet eight inches of flesh and bones into solid silver!
Quite a permanent servant, if not so nimble withal--reasoning against "forever," is forestalled
henceforth, and, Deut. xxiii. 15, quite outwitted. The obvious meaning of the phrase, "He is
his money," is, he is worth money to his master, and since, if the master had killed him, it
would have taken money out of his pocket, the pecuniary loss, the kind of instrument used,
and the fact of his living sometime after the injury, (if the master meant to kill, he would
be likely to do it while about it.) all together make a strong case of presumptive evidence
clearing the master from intent to kill. But let us look at the objector's inferences. One
is, that as the master might dispose of his property as he pleased, he was not to be punished,
if he destroyed it. Whether the servant died under the master's hand, or after a day or two,
he was equally his property, and the objector admits that in the first case the master is to
be "surely punished" for destroying his own property! The other inference is, that since the
continuance of a day or two, cleared the master of intent to kill, the loss of the servant
would be a sufficient punishment for inflicting the injury which caused his death. This inference
makes the Mosaic law false to its own principles. A pecuniary loss was no part of the legal
claim, where a person took the life of another. In such case, the law spurned money, whatever
the sum. God would not cheapen human life, by balancing it with such a weight. "Ye shall take
NO SATISFACTION for the life of a murderer, but he shall surely be put to death." Num. xxxv.
31. Even in excusable homicide, where an axe slipped from the helve and killed a man, no sum
of money availed to release from confinement in the city of refuge, until the death of the
High Priest. Num. xxxv. 32. The doctrine that the loss of the servant would be a penalty adequate
to the desert of the master, admits his guilt and his desert of some punishment, and it prescribes
a kind of punishment, rejected by the law, in all cases where man took the life of man, whether
with or without intent to kill. In short, the objector annuls an integral part of the system--makes
a new law, and coolly metes out such penalty as he thinks fit. Divine legislation revised and
improved! The master who struck out his servant's tooth, whether intentionally or not, was
required to set him free. The pecuniary loss to the master was the same as though he had killed
him. Look at the two cases. A master beats his servant so that he dies of his wounds; another
accidentally strikes out his servant's tooth,--the pecuniary loss of both masters is the same.
If the loss of the servant's services is punishment sufficient for the crime of killing him,
would God command the same punishment for the accidental knocking out of a tooth? Parallel rays are
such as proceed equally distant from each other through their whole
course.

Converging rays are such as approach and tend to unite at any one
point, as at b. Fig. 3.

Diverging rays are those which continue to recede from each other,
as at e. Fig. 3.

A Focus is that point at which converging rays meet.

MOTION OF LIGHT-- Rays of light are thrown off from luminous bodies in every direction, but
always in straight lines, which cross each other at every point; but the particles of which
each ray consists are so minute that the rays do not appear to be
impeded by each other.

A ray of light passing through an aperture into a dark room, proceeds in a straight line; a fact
of which any one may be convinced by going into a darkened room and admitting light only through
a small aperture.

Light also moves with great velocity, but becomes fainter as it recedes from the source from
which it eminates; in other words, diverging rays of light diminish
in intensity as the square of the distance increases.

For instance let a fig. 1, represent the luminous body from which light proceeds, and suppose
three square boards, b. c. d. severally one, four and sixteen square
inches in size be placed; b one foot, c two feet, and d four feet
from a, it will be perceived that the smallest board b will throw
c into shadow; that is, obstruct all rays of light that would otherwise
fall on c, and if b were removed c would in like manner hide the light
from d-- Now, if b recieve as much light as would fall on c whose surface
is four times as large, the light must be four times as powerful and
sixteen times as powerful as that which would fall on the second and
third boards, because the same quantity of light is diffused over
a space four and sixteen times greater.

These same rays may be collected and their intensity again increased.

Rays of light are reflected from one surface to another; Refracted, or bent, as they pass from
the surface of one transparent medium to another; and Inflected, or turned from their course,
by the attraction of opaque bodies. From the first we derive the principles on which mirrors are
constructed; to the second we are indebted for the power of the lenses, and the blessings of sight,-- for
the light acts upon the retina of the eye in the same manner as on the lens of a camera. The
latter has no important bearing upon our subject.

When a ray of light falls perpendicularly upon an opaque body, it is reflected bark in the same
line in which it proceeds; in this case the reflected ray returns in the same path the incident
ray traversed; but when a ray falls obliquely, it is reflected obliquely, that is, it is thrown
off in opposite direction, and as far from the perpendicular as was the incident ray, as shown at
Fig. 2; a representing the incident ray and b the reflected. The point, or angle c made by the
incident ray, at the surface of the reflector e f, with a line c d, perpendicular to that surface,
is called the angle of incidence, while the angle formed by the reflected ray b and the perpendicular
line d is called the angle of reflection, and these angles are always
equal.

It is by this reflection of light that objects are made visible; but unless light falls directly
upon the eye they are invisible, and are not sensibly felt until after a certain series of
operations upon the various coverings and humors of the eye. Smooth and polished surfaces reflect
light most powerfully, and send to the eye the images of the objects from which the light proceeded
before reflection. Glass, which is transparent-- transmitting light-- would be of no use to
us as a mirror, were it not first coated on one side with a metalic amalgam, which interrupts
the rays in their passage from the glass into the air, and throws them either directly in the incident
line, or in an oblique direction. The reason why trees, rocks and animals are not all mirrors, reflecting
other forms instead of their own, is, that their surfaces are uneven, and rays of light reflected
from an uneven surface are diffused in all directions.

Parallel rays falling obliquely upon a plane mirror are reflected parallel; converging rays, with
the same degree of convergence; and diverging rays equally divergent.

Stand before a mirror and your image is formed therein, and appears to be as far behind the
glass as you are before it, making the angle of reflection equal to that of incidence, as before
stated. The incident ray and the reflected ray form, together, what is called the passage of
reflection, and this will therefore make the actual distance of an image to appear as far again from
the eye as it really is. Any object which reflects light is called a radiant. The point behind
a reflecting surface, from which they appear to diverge, is called
the virtual focus.

Rays of light being reflected at the same angle at which they fall
upon a mirror, two persons can stand in such a position that each
can see the image of the other without seeing his own.

Again; you may see your whole figure in a mirror half your length, but if you stand before one
a few inches shorter the whole cannot be reflected, as the incident ray which passes from
your feet into the mirror in the former case, will in the latter fall under it. Images are always
reversed in mirrors.

Convex mirrors reflect light from a rounded surface and disperse the rays in every direction, causing
parallel rays to diverge, diverging rays to diverge more, and converging rays to converge less-- they
represent objects smaller than they really are-- because the angle formed by the reflected ray
is rendered more acute by a convex than by a plane surface, and it is the diminishing of the
visual angle, by causing rays of light to be farther extended before they meet in a point, which
produces the image of convex mirrors. The greater the convexity of a mirror, the more will the
images of the objects be diminished, and the nearer will they appear to the surface. These mirrors
furnish science with many curious and pleasing facts.

Concave mirrors are the reverse of convex; the latter being rounded outwards, the former hollowed
inwards-- they render rays of light more converging-- collect rays instead of dispersing them, and
magnify objects while the convex diminishes them.

Rays of light may be collected in the focus of a mirror to such intensity as to melt metals. The ordinary
burning glass is an illustration of this fact; although the rays of light are refracted, or passed
through the glass and concentrated into a focus beneath.

When incident rays are parallel, the reflected rays converge to a focus, but when the incident
rays proceed from a focus, or are divergent, they are reflected parallel. It is only when an object
is nearer to a concave mirror than its centre of concavity, that its image is magnified; for
when the object is farther from the mirror, this centre will appear less than the object, and
in an inverted position.

The centre of concavity in a concave mirror, is an imaginary point placed in the centre of a circle
formed by continuing the boundary of the concavity of the mirror
from any one point of the edge to another parallel to and beneath it.

REFRACTION OF LIGHT:-- I now pass to the consideration of the passage
of light through bodies.

A ray of light failing perpendicularly through the air upon a surface of glass or water passes
on in a straight line through the body; but if it, in passing from one medium to another of different
density, fall obliquely, it is bent from its direct course and recedes from it, either towards
the right or left, and this bending is called refraction; (see Fig. 3, b.) If a ray of light
passes from a rarer into a denser medium it is refracted towards a perpendicular in that medium;
but if it passes from a denser into rarer it is bent further from a perpendicular in that medium.
Owing to this bending of the rays of light the angles of refraction
and incidence are never equal.

Transparent bodies differ in their power of bending light-- as a general rule, the refractive power
is proportioned to the density-- but the chemical constitution of bodies as well as their density,
is found to effect their refracting power. Inflammable bodies possess
this power to a great degree.

The
sines of the angle of incidence and refraction (that is, the perpendicular drawn from the extremity
of an arc to the diameter of a circle,) are always in the same ratio; viz: from air into water,
the sine of the angle of refraction is nearly as four to three, whatever
be the position of the ray with respect to the refracting surface.

From air into sulphur, the sine of the angle of refraction is as two to one-- therefore the rays
of light cannot be refracted whenever the sine of the angle of refraction becomes equal to the
radius* of a circle, and light falling very obliquely upon a transparent
medium ceases to be refracted; this is termed total reflection.*
The RADIUS of a circle is a straight line passing from the centre
to the circumference.

Since the brightness of a reflected image depends upon the quantity
of light, it is quite evident that those images which arise from total
reflection are by far the most vivid, as in ordinary cases of reflection
a portion of light is absorbed.

I should be pleased to enter more fully into this branch of the science of optics, but the bounds
to which I am necessarily limited in a work of this kind will not admit of it. I will conclude this
chapter with a brief statement of the principles upon which the Photographic
art is founded.

SOLAR and Stellar light contains three kinds of rays, viz: 1. Colorific, or rays of color.
2. Calorific, or rays of heat. 3. Chemical rays, or those which produce chemical effects. On
the first and third the Photographic principle depends. In explaining
this principle the accompanying wood cuts, (figs.

3 and
4) will render it more intelligible.

If a pencil of the sun's rays fall upon a prism, it is bent in passing
through the transparent medium; and some rays being more refracted
than others, we procure an elongated image of the luminous beam, exhibiting
three distinct colors, red, yellow and blue, which are to be regarded
as primitives-- and from their interblending, seven, as recorded by
Newton, and shown in the accompanying wood cut.

These rays being absorbed, or reflected differently by various bodies,
give to nature the charm of color.

Thus to the eve is given the pleasure we derive in looking upon the
green fields and forests, the enumerable varieties of flowers, the
glowing ruby, jasper, topaz, amethist, and emerald, the brilliant
diamond, and all the rich and varied hues of nature, both animate
and inanimate.

Now, if we allow this prismatic spectrum (b. Fig. 3.) to fall upon any surface (as at c.) prepared with
a sensitive photographic compound, we shall find that the chemical
effect produced bears no relation to the intensity of the light of
any particular colored ray, but that, on the contrary, it is dispersed
over the largest portion of the spectrum, being most energetic in
the least luminous rays, and ever active over an extensive space,
where no traces of light can be detected.

Fig. 4, will give the student a better idea of this principle. It is a copy of the kind of impression
which the spectrum, spoken of, would make on a piece of paper covered with a very sensitive
photographic preparation. The white space a. corresponds with the
most luminous, or yellow ray, (5, Fig. 3) over limits of which all chemical
change is prevented.

A similar action is also produced by the lower end of the red ray c; but in the upper portion,
however we find a decided change (as at d). The most active chemical change, you will perceive,
is produced by the rays above the yellow a; viz. 4, 3, 2 and 1 (as at b) the green (4) being
the least active, and the blue (3) and violet (1) rays the most so, the action still continuing
far beyond the point b which is the end of the luminous image.

Suppose we wish to copy by the Daguerreotype, or Calotype process, any objects highly colored-- blue,
red and yellow, for instance predominating-- the last of course reflects the most light, the blue the least;
but the rays from the blue surface will make the most intense impression, whilst the red radiations
are working very slowly, and the yellow remains entirely inactive. This accounts for the difficulty
experienced in copying bright green foliage, or warmly colored portraits; a large portion of
the yellow and red rays entering into the composition of both-- and the imperfections of a Daguerreotype
portrait of a person with a freckled face depends upon the same cause. A yellow, hazy atmosphere, even when
the light is very bright, will effectually prevent any good photographic result-- and in the height
of summer, with the most sensative process, it not unfrequently happens that the most annoying
failures arise from this agency of a yellow medium. A building painted of a yellow color, which
may reflect the sun's rays directly into the operator's room will have
the same effect.

Daguerreotypists, being ignorant of these facts, are very apt to charge their want of success
to the plates, or chemicals, or any thing but the real cause; and it would be well to bear these
facts constantly in mind and as far as possible avoid them.

This, may be accomplished, in a measure, by a choice of location or by having the glass of your windows
tinged with blue; or a screen of thin blue paper may be interposed between the light and sitter.
In selecting subjects, all striking contrasts in color should be avoided, and sitters for portraits
should be cautioned not to wear anything that may produce the effect
spoken of-- dark dresses always being the best.

The action of light both combines and decomposes bodies. For instance, chlorine and hydrogen will
remain in a glass vessel without alteration if kept in the dark; but if exposed to the rays of the
sun, they immediately enter into combination, and produce hydrochloric acid. On the other hand,
if colorless nitric acid be exposed to the sun, it becomes yellow,
then changes to red, and oxygen is liberated by the partial decomposition
effected by the solar rays.

Of the organic substances none are more readily acted upon by light than the various combinations of silver.
Of these some are more, and others less sensitive. If Chloride of silver, which is a white precipitate
formed by adding chloride of sodium (common salt) to a solution of nitrate of silver, be exposed
to diffused light, it speedily assumes a violet tint, and ultimately becomes nearly black. With
iodide of silver, bromide of silver, ammonio-nitrate of silver, and other salts of this metal,
the result will be much the same. Some bodies, which under the influence of light, undergo chemical
changes, have the power of restoring themselves to their original condition in the dark. This is more
remarkably displayed in the iodide of platinum, which readily recieves a photogenic image by darkening
over the exposed surfaces, but speedily loses it by bleaching in the dark. The ioduret of Daguerre's
plate, and some other iodides, exhibit the same peculiarity-- This leads us to the striking fact,
that bodies which have undergone a change of estate under the influence of day-light have some latent
power by which they can renovate themselves.

Possibly the hours of night are as necessary to inanimate nature as they are to the animate.
During the day, an excitement which we do not heed, unless in a state of disease, is maintained
by the influence of light and the hours of repose, during which the equilibrium is restored, are
absolutely necessary to the continuance of health. Instead of a few chemical compounds of gold
and silver, which at first were alone supposed to be photographic,
we are now aware that copper, platinum, lead, nickel, and indeed,
probably all the elements, are equally liably to change under the
sun's influence.

This fact may be of benefit to engravers, for if steel can be made to take photographic impressions,
the more laborious process of etching may be dispensed with.

In fact, in the latter part of this work, a process is described for etching and taking printed impressions
from Daguerreotype plates. As yet this process has produced no decided beneficial results-- but
future experiments may accomplish some practical discovery of intrinsic
value to the art of engraving.

A very simple experiment will prove how essential light is to the coloring of the various species comprising
the vegetable and animal kingdoms.

If we transplant any shrub from the light of day into a dark cellar, we will soon see it lose
its bright green color, and become perfectly white. Another effect of light is that it appears
to impart to bodies some power by which they more readily enter into chemical combination with others.
We have already said that chlorine and hydrogen, if kept in the dark, will remain unaltered;
but if the chlorine alone be previously exposed to the sun, the
chlorine thus solarised will unite with the hydrogen in the dark.
Sulphate of iron will throw down gold or silver from their solutions
slowly in the dark; but if either solution be first exposed to sunshine,
and the mixture be then made, in the dark, the precipitation takes
place instantly.

Here is again, evidence of either an absorption of some material agent from the sunbeam, or an alteration
in the chemical constitution of the body. It was from understanding these principles and applying
them that philosophers were enabled to produce the Calotype, Daguerreotype,& c. For the effects and
action of light on the camera, see Chapter V. Some advances have
been made towards producing Photographic impressions in color-- the
impossibility of which some of our best and oldest artists have most
pertinaciously maintained.

The colored image of the spectrum has been most faithfully copied, ray for ray, on paper spread
with the juice of the Cochorus Japonica, (a species of plant) and the fluoride of silver; and
on silver plate covered with a thin film of chloride. The day may be still remote when this much to be
desired desideratum shall be accomplished in portrait taking; but I am led
to hope that future experiments may master the secret which now causes
it to be looked upon, by many, as an impossibility. That great advantages
have resulted, and that greater still will result from the discovery
of the Photographic art, few will deny. The faithful manner in which it copies
nature, even to the most minute details, renders it of much value
to the painter; but a few minutes sufficing to take a view that formerly
would have occupied several days.

Its superiority in portraits, over miniature or oil
painting has been tacitly acknowledged by the thousands who employ it to
secure their own, or a friends likeness, and by the steady increase
in the number of artists who are weekly, aye daily springing up in
every town and village in the land. The sense of the whole regulation may be given thus: "Thy permanent
domestics, which thou shalt have, shall be of the nations that are round about you, of them
shall ye buy male and female domestics." "Moreover of the children of the foreigners that do
sojourn among you, of them shall ye buy, and of their families that are with you, which they
begat in your land, and they shall be your permanent resource." "And ye shall take them as
a perpetual source of supply to whom your children after you shall resort for servants. ALWAYS,
of them shall ye serve yourselves." The design of the passage is manifest from its structure.
So far from being a permission to purchase slaves, it was a prohibition to employ Israelites
for a certain term and in a certain grade of service, and to point out the class of persons
from which they were to get their supply of servants, and the way in which they were to get
them.[A]

[Footnote A: Rabbi Leeser, who translated from the German the work entitled "Instruction in
the Mosaic Religion" by Professor Jholson of the Jewish seminary at Frankfort-on-the-Main,
in his comment on these verses, says, "It must be observed that it was prohibited to SUBJECT
a Stranger to slavery. The buying of slaves alone is permitted, but not stealing them."

Now whatever we call that condition in which servants were, whether servitude or slavery, and
whatever we call the persons in that condition, whether servants or slaves, we have at all
events, the testimony that the Israelites were prohibited to subject a Stranger to that condition,
or in other words, the free choice of the servant was not to be compelled. ]

OBJECTION IV. "If thy brother that dwelleth by thee be waxen poor, and be sold unto thee, thou
shalt not compel him to serve as a BOND-SERVANT but as an HIRED-SERVANT, and as a sojourner
shall he be with thee, and shall serve thee unto the year of jubilee." Lev. xxv. 39, 40.

As only one class is called "hired," it is inferred that servants of the other class were not
paid for their labor. At sixty-five he had saved nothing, having been eaten up by a drunken wife, "whom
at last he had the pleasure of burying." He had few friends, except his two dogs, Emperor and
Massacre, and he especially hated Jacqueline Cognet with the jealous disgust of an old servant
at her rapid advancement. He was aware of her numerous liaisons, but said nothing until she brought
about his dismissal, when he told everything to his master, Alexandre
Hourdequin. La Terre.

SOURDEAU, a bone-setter at Bazoches-le-Doyen, who was supposed to be equally good for wounds.
La Terre.

SOUVARINE, an engine-man at the Voreux pit, who lodged with the Rasteneurs. He was a Russian
of noble family, who had at first studied medicine, until, carried away by social enthusiasm, he
learned a trade in order that he might mix with the people. It was by this trade that he now
lived, after having fled in consequence of an unsuccessful attempt against the Czar's life, an attempt
which resulted in his mistress, Annouchka, and many of his friends, being hanged. His principles
were those of the most violent anarchy, and he would have nothing to do with the strike at Montsou,
which he considered a merely childish affair. Disgusted at the return of the miners to their
work, he resolved to bring about the destruction of the Voreux pit, by weakening the timbers
which kept out a vast accumulation of water. He accomplished that work of madness in a fury of
destruction in which he twenty times risked his life. And when the torrent had invaded the
mine, imprisoning the unfortunate workers, Souvarine went calmly away into the unknown without
a glance behind. Germinal.

SPIRIT, an English horse which ran in the Grand Prix de Paris. Nana.

SPONTINI, a master at the College of Plassans. He came originally from Corsica, and used to
show his knife, rusty with the blood of three cousins. L'Oeuvre.

SQUELETTE-EXTERNE (LE).

See Mimi-la-Mort. L'Oeuvre.

STEINBERG (GOLIATH), a Prussian spy who was engaged in 1867 as a farm servant by Fouchard at
Remilly. He became the lover of Silvine Morange, promising her marriage, but disappearing before
the ceremony. It was said that he served also on other farms in the neighbourhood of Beaumont
and Raucourt. During the war he was able to give important information to the German forces.
In trying to regain his former influence over Silvine, he threatened to remove their child to Germany,
and, to prevent his doing so, she betrayed him to Guillaume Sambuc and the francs-tireurs
of his band, who killed him in the house of Fouchard, in the presence of Silvine, by cutting
his throat, and bleeding him in the same manner as a pig. La Debacle.

STEINER, a banker in Paris. He was a German Jew, through whose hands had passed millions. He
spent vast sums upon Rose Mignon and Nana. Nana.

STERNICH (DUCHESSE DE), a celebrated leader of society in the Second Empire. She dominated all
her friends on the ground of a former intimacy with the Emperor.
La Curee.

STEWARD (LUCY), was the daughter of an engine-cleaner of English origin who was employed at
the Gare du Nord. She was not beautiful, but had such a charm of manner that she was considered
the smartest of the demi-mondaines in Paris. Among her lovers had been a prince of the royal blood.
She had a son, Ollivier, before whom she posed as an actress. Nana.

STEWART (OLLIVIER), son of the preceding. He was a pupil at the naval college, and had no suspicion
of the calling of his mother. Nana.

SURIN (ABBE), secretary to the Bishop of Plassans, of whom he was a great favourite. He was a constant
visitor at the home of M. Rastoil, with whose daughters he played battledore. La Conquete de
Plassans.

SYLVIA, an actress who was admired by Maxime Saccard. La Curee.

T TABOUREAU (MADAME), a baker in the Rue Turbigo.

She was a recognized authority on all subjects relating to her neighbours. Le Ventre de Paris.
TATIN (MADEMOISELLE), kept an under-linen warehouse in the Passage
Choiseul, and was so seriously affected by the competition of Octave
Mouret's great store that she became bankrupt.

Au Bonheur des Dames. TATAN NENE, a young girl of great beauty who had herded cows in Champagne before
coming to Paris. She was one of Nana's friends. Nana. TAVERNIER, an old doctor of Orleans, who
had ceased to practise.

Georges Hugon made a pretext of visiting him, in order to be able to join Nana at La Mignotte.
Nana.

TESTANIERE (MADAME), a protegee of Madame Correur, who recommended her to Eugene Rougon, the Minister
of State. Son Excellence Eugene Rougon.

TEUSE (LA), an elderly woman who acted as servant to Abbe Mouret. In addition, she cleaned the
church and kept the vestments in order; on occasion, it was said,
she had even served the Mass for the Abbe's predecessor.

She was garrulous and ill-tempered, but was devoted to Mouret, of whom she took the greatest care, and
she was also kind to his weak-minded sister, Desiree. La Faute de l'Abbe Mouret. THEODORE, a Belgian
who gave lessons on the piano to Clarisse Bocquet, and afterwards became her lover. Pot-Bouille.
THEODORE, son of a paste-board maker. He was to have married Nathalie Dejoie, but wishing
to establish himself in business, demanded a considerable dowry.

He afterwards married the daughter of a workman, who brought him nearly eight thousand francs.
L'Argent.

THERESE, a former neighbour of the Lorilleux in Rue de la Goutte d'Or. She died of consumption, and the
Lorilleux thought they saw a resemblance between Gervaise and her. L'Assommoir. THIBAUDIER
(M.), a banker at Caen.

He had a daughter, Louise, but having married again soon after the death
of his first wife, he troubled little about her, and was quite willing to
consent to her marriage with Lazare Chanteau.

La Joie de Vivre.

THIBAUDIER (LOUISE), daughter of M. Thibaudier, a banker at Caen. She was a slight, delicate girl,
with an attractive manner, and Lazare Chanteau fell in love with her, though he was at the time engaged
to Pauline Quenu.

Pauline having magnanimously released him, they were married. Lazare's morbid mania having become
more acute, and Louise being herself in poor health, their relations became strained, and
the marriage was not a happy one. They had a son who was named Paul. La Joie de Vivre. Louise
died young. Le Docteur Pascal. THOMAS, keeper of an eating-house at Montmartre. L'Assommoir. THOMAS
(ANSELME), a journeyman saddler at Plassans. He married Justine Megot, tempted by the annuity
of twelve hundred francs which she received from Saccard.

He disliked her child, the little Charles Rougon, who was degenerate
and weak-minded.

Le Docteur Pascal. THOMAS (MADAME ANSELME), wife of the preceding.

See Justine Megot. Le Docteur Pascal. TISON, keeper of a dram-shop at Montsou. Germinal. TISSOT (MADAME),
a friend of Madame Deberle. Une Page d'Amour.

TITREVILLE (MADAME) carried on the business of an artificial-flower maker, of which Madame Lerat
was forewoman, and where Nana Coupeau was a pupil.

She was a tall woman who never unbent, and the girls were all afraid
of her, pretending to be engrossed in work whenever she appeared.

L'Assommoir. TOUCHE, an Attorney's clerk at Plassans.

He married Sidonie Rougon in 1838, and went with her to Paris, where
he started business as a dealer in the products of the South.

He was not very successful, and died in 1850.

La Curee. TOURMAL (LES), a family who resided at Bonneville and lived chiefly by smuggling and stealing.
The father and grandfather were sent to prison, and the daughter, when shown kindness by Pauline
Quenu, rewarded her by attempting to steal such small articles of
value as she could conceal. La Joie de Vivre.

TOUTIN-LAROCHE
(M.), a retired candle-manufacturer; now a municipal councillor, and a director of the Credit Viticole,
the Societe Generale of the Ports of Morocco, and other companies of doubtful standing. His ambition
was to enter the Senate, and he clung to Baron Gauraud and Saccard
in the belief that they could assist him.

La Curee. TRICON (LA), a well-known procuress, who numbered Nana among her clients. She had a
passion for racing, and at the Grand Prix seemed to dominate the crowd. TROMPETTE, one of the horses
in the Voreux pit. It only lived a few months after being taken underground. Germinal. TRON,
a labourer in the farm of La Borderie.

He was one of Jacqueline Cognet's lovers, and exhibited jealousy amounting to insanity regarding
her. Having been dismissed by his master, he opened a trap-door through which Hourdequin fell
and was killed. When he found that Jacqueline would not forgive him for this stupid murder,
which ruined her prospects, he set fire to the farm buildings.

La Terre. TROUCHE (HONORE), brother-in-law of Abbe Faujas. Having been unsuccessful in business
at Besancon, he followed Faujas to Plassans, where he went with his
wife to live in rooms rented by the Abbe from Francois Mouret.

He was of bad character and quite unscrupulous, but by the influence of Faujas he was appointed Secretary
to the Girls'Home started by Madame Mouret and other ladies of Plassans.

Having got a footing in the Mourets'house, he soon began to take advantage of his position, and little
by little got possession of the whole premises. He did all he could to encourage the idea of Francois Mouret's
madness, and after the unfortunate man's removal to the asylum was able with greater ease to
carry out his schemes. Mouret having ultimately escaped from the
asylum, returned to his home and set it on fire; Trouche perished
in the flames.

La Conquete
de Plassans. TROUCHE (MADAME OLYMPE), wife of the preceding, and sister of Abbe Faujas. She accompanied
her husband to Plassans, and contributed largely to the ruin of the Mouret family. Utterly heartless,
she stopped at nothing, robbing Madame Mouret of money, clothing, everything that came within
her power. Nemesis came with the return of Francois Mouret, who set fire to his house, causing the
death of Madame Trouche as well as that of her husband. La Conquete de Plassans. TROUILLE (LA),
the nickname of Olympe Fouan. La Terre. TRUBLOT (HECTOR), a young man whom Madame Josserand
hoped at one time to secure as a husband for her daughter. He had, however, no thoughts of marriage,
and as he was averse to any risk of complications, his habit was to select his female friends
from among the maid-servants of his acquaintances. He was employed as correspondent in the office
of Monsieur Desmarquay, a money-changer.

Pot-Bouille. V VABRE, a notary of Versailles who retired to Paris with a fortune, part of which
he invested in the house in Rue de Choiseul occupied by the Duveyriers, the Josserands, and others.
He had unfortunately a hidden passion for gambling in stocks and shares, and when he died it was found that
his whole fortune had been dissipated, even his house being heavily mortgaged. Pot-Bouille. VABRE
(AUGUSTE), eldest son of M. Vabre, carried on a silk merchant's business
in part of the premises which belonged to his father.

He married Berthe Josserand, but as he suffered much from neuralgia,
and was, in addition, of a niggardly disposition, the marriage was
not a happy one.

An intrigue between Madame Vabre and Octave Mouret followed, and
on its discovery she returned to her parents.

For a considerable time Vabre refused to forgive his wife, but a reconciliation was ultimately brought about through
the intervention of Abbe Mauduit. Vabre's fortunes were adversely affected by the extension
of Madame Hedouin's business, known as "The Ladies'Paradise." Pot-Bouille. The rapid success
of Octave Mouret's business led to the ruin of Vabre, a result to
which the extravagance of his wife also contributed.

Au Bonheur des Dames.

VABRE
(MADAME AUGUSTE), wife of the preceding. See Berthe Josserand. Pot-Bouille. VABRE (CAMILLE), son of
Theophile Vabre and his wife Valerie Louhette. Pot-Bouille. VABRE (CLOTILDE), daughter of Vabre
the notary, and wife of Duveyrier. She did not get on well with her husband, whom she hated, and her only
passion was for music, which she practised to an inordinate extent.

Pot-Bouille. VABRE (THEOPHILE), second son of M. Vabre, "a little old man of twenty-eight, a
victim to coughs and toothache, who first tried all sorts of trades and then married the daughter
of a neighbouring haberdasher." His life was shadowed by suspicions of his wife, with whom he
constantly quarrelled. He was with difficulty prevented from making a scene at the marriage
of his brother Auguste to Berthe Josserand. Pot-Bouille. VABRE (MADAME VALERIE), wife of the preceding,
nee Louhette, was the daughter of a wealthy haberdasher. She did not get on well with her husband,
who accused her, not entirely without reason, of carrying on a liaison with some one whose name he
was unable to discover.

Pot-Bouille. VADON (MARGUERITE), daughter of a linen-draper at Grenoble, found it desirable to come to Paris
for a time, and got a situation at "The Ladies'Paradise."
She as a well-conducted girl, and ultimately returned to Grenoble to
take charge of her parents'shop, and marry a cousin who was waiting
for her.

Au Bonheur des Dames. VALENCAY (BARON DE), aide-de-camp
to the Emperor.

He married the eldest daughter of the
Comtesse de Bretigny. L'Assommoir. VALENCAY (MADEMOISELLE PAULE DE),
was very rich and extremely beautiful when at nineteen years old she
married the Marquis Jean XII de Hautecoeur.

She died within a
year, leaving a son named Felicien. Le Reve. VALENTIN, son of Guiraude,
and brother of Sophie. His father, a journeyman tanner, died of phthisis,
and Valentin, who had been in daily contact with him, developed the
disease. Doctor Pascal Rougon prolonged his life for some time by hypodermic
injections of a substance discovered by himself, but the respite was
only temporary, for at twenty-one years of age Valentine died of
hereditary phthisis.

Le Docteur Pascal.
VALERIO II, a horse which belonged to M. Corbreuse and ran in the
Grand Prix de Paris. Nana. VALLAGNOSC (MADAME DE), belonged to an old
family of Plassans. Left a widow with two daughters and one son, she
found life difficult on the small remains of a former fortune.

In order
to assist his mother, the son, Paul, secured an appointment at Paris in
a Government office. Au Bonheur des Dames. VALLAGNOSC (PAUL DE), an old friend
of Octave Mouret, whom he had known at Plassans. He belonged to an
old family, but, being a younger son without money, was obliged to select
a profession.

He studied law, but meeting with
no success, was obliged to accept an appointment in the Ministry
of the Interior.

He married Mademoiselle de Boves. Au Bonheur
des Dames. VALLAGNOSC (MADAME PAUL DE), wife of the preceding. See
Blanche de Boves. VALQUEYRAS (COMTE DE), a relation of Marquis de Carnavant,
who lived in his house.

La Fortune des Rougon. He was a supporter
of the Marquis de Lagrifoul, the Legitimist Deputy for Plassans,
who visited him for a fortnight before the election which was dominated
by Abbe Faujas. La Conquete de Plassans. VALQUEYRAS (MARQUISE DE),
in 1873, she was the only representative of a very old family. She was
a widow with a little daughter of six, very rich, and equally parsimonious.
When Doctor Pascal Rougon called on her to ask payment of his fees,
he allowed himself to be put off, and even gave advice regarding the
health of the child.

Le Docteur Pascal. VANDERGHAGEN, the
medical man employed by the Mining Company of Montsou.

He was so
much overworked that it was said he gave his consultations while he was
running from place to place. Germinal. VANDEUVRES (COMTE XAVIER DE), the
last member of a noble family, had gone through a large fortune in
Paris. His racing-stable was famous, as were his losses at the Imperial
Club, while his ruin was completed by the vast sums which he spent
on Nana.

His final hope was centred on the race for the Grand
Prix de Paris in which he was running two horses, Lusignan and a
filly named Nana. Lusignan was the favourite, but Vandeuvres, having arranged
his betting, caused the horse to be pulled, so that the filly might
win. The ruse was successful, and Vandeuvres gained a large sum, but suspicions
having been aroused, he was warned off the turf and expelled from
the Imperial Club.

Driven to madness, the Comte shut
himself up in his stable, and, having set it on fire, perished among
his horses.

Nana. VANDORPE, the head
stationmaster of the Western Railway Company at Paris. La Bete Humaine.
VANPOUILLE BROTHERS, a firm of furriers in Rue Neuve-des-Petits Champs,
who were practically ruined when Octave Mouret added a fur department
to "The Ladies'Paradise."

Au Bonheur des Dames. VANSKA (COMTESSE), a well-known and rich
mondaine of the Second Empire. La Curee. VANZADE (MADAME), the widow of
a general. She was an old lady, rich, nearly blind, and practically
helpless.

At Passy she
lived, in a silent old house, a life so retired and regular that
it might have been actuated by clockwork. The superior honorableness of agriculture is shown, in that it was protected
and supported by the fundamental law of the theocracy--God indicating it as the chief prop
of the government. The Israelites were like permanent fixtures on their soil, so did they cling
to it. To be agriculturists on their own patrimonial inheritances, was with them the grand
claim to honorable estimation. When Ahab proposed to Naboth that he should sell him his vineyard,
king though he was, he might well have anticipated from an Israelitish freeholder, just such
an indignant burst as that which his proposal drew forth, "And Naboth said to Ahab, the Lord
forbid it me that I should give the inheritance of my fathers unto thee." 1 Kings xxi. 2, 3.
Agriculture being pre-eminently a Jewish employment, to assign a native Israelite to other
employments as a business, was to break up his habits, do violence to cherished predilections,
and put him to a kind of labor in which he had no skill, and which he deemed degrading.[C]
In short, it was in the earlier ages of the Mosaic system, practically to unjew him, a hardship
and a rigor grievous to be borne, as it annihilated a visible distinction between the descendants
of Abraham and the Strangers. To guard this and another fundamental distinction, God instituted
the regulation, "If thy brother that dwelleth by thee be waxen poor, and be sold unto thee,
thou shalt not compel him to serve as a bond-servant." In other words, thou shalt not put him
to servant's work--to the business, and into the condition of domestics. In the Persian version
it is translated, "Thou shalt not assign to him the work of servitude." In the Septuagint,
"He shall not serve thee with the service of a domestic." In the Syriac, "Thou shalt not employ
him after the manner of servants." In the Samaritan, "Thou shalt not require him to serve in
the service of a servant." In the Targum of Onkelos, "He shall not serve thee with the service
of a household servant." In the Targum of Jonathan, "Thou shalt not cause him to serve according
to the usages of the servitude of servants."[D] The meaning of the passage is, thou shalt not
assign him to the same grade, nor put him to the same service, with permanent domestics. The
remainder of the regulation is--"But as an hired servant and as a sojourner shall he be with
thee." Hired servants were not incorporated into the families of their masters; they still
retained their own family organization, without the surrender of any domestic privilege, honor,
or authority; and this, even though they resided under the same roof with their master. The
same substantially may be said of the sojourner though he was not the owner of the land which
he cultivated, and of course had not the control of an inheritance, yet he was not in a condition
that implied subjection to him whose land he tilled, or that demanded the surrender of any
right, or exacted from him any homage, or stamped him with any inferiority; unless, it be supposed
that a degree of inferiority would naturally attach to a state of dependence however qualified.
While bought servants were associated with their master's families at meals, at the Passover,
and at other family festivals, hired servants and sojourners were not. Ex. xii. 44, 45; Lev.
xxii. 10, 11. Hired servants were not subject to the authority of their masters in any such
sense as the master's wife, children, and bought servants. Hence the only form of oppressing
hired servants spoken of in the Scriptures as practicable to masters, is that of keeping back
their wages. To have taken away such privileges in the case under consideration, would have
been pre-eminent "rigor;" for it was not a servant born in the house of a master, nor a minor,
whose minority had been sold by the father, neither was it one who had not yet acceded to his
inheritance, nor finally, one who had received the assignment of his inheritance, but was working
off from it an incumbrance, before entering upon its possession and control. But it was that
of the head of a family, who had known better days, now reduced to poverty, forced to relinquish
the loved inheritance of his fathers, with the competence and respectful consideration its
possession secured to him, and to be indebted to a neighbor for shelter, sustenance, and employment.
So sad a reverse, might well claim sympathy; but one consolation cheers him in the house of
his pilgrimage; he is an Israelite--Abraham is his father and now in his calamity he clings
closer than ever, to the distinction conferred by his birth-right. To rob him of this, were
"the unkindest cut of all." To have assigned him to a grade of service filled only by those
whose permanent business was serving, would have been to "rule over him with" peculiar "rigor."
"Thou shalt not compel him to serve as a bond-servant," or literally, thou shalt not serve
thyself with him, with the service of a servant, guaranties his political privileges, and a
kind and grade of service comporting with his character and relations as an Israelite. And
"as a hired servant, and as a sojourner shall he be with thee," secures to him his family organization,
the respect and authority due to its head, and the general consideration resulting from such
a station. Being already in possession of his inheritance, and the head of a household, the
law so arranged the conditions of his service as to alleviate as much as possible the calamity
which had reduced him from independence and authority, to penury and subjection. The import
of the command which concludes this topic in the forty-third verse, ("Thou shalt not rule over
him with rigor,") is manifestly this, you shall not disregard those differences in previous
associations, station, authority, and political privileges, upon which this regulation is based;
for to hold this class of servants irrespective of these distinctions, and annihilating them,
is to "rule with rigor." The same command is repeated in the forty-sixth verse, and applied
to the distinction between servants of Jewish, and those of Gentile extraction, and forbids
the overlooking of distinctive Jewish peculiarities, the disregard of which would be rigorous
in the extreme.[E] The construction commonly put upon the phrase "rule with rigor," and the
inference drawn from it, have an air vastly oracular. It is interpreted to mean, "you shall
not make him a chattel, and strip him of legal protection, nor force him to work without pay."
The inference is like unto it, viz., since the command forbade such outrages upon the Israelites,
it permitted and commissioned their infliction upon the Strangers. Such impious and shallow
smattering captivates scoffers and libertines; its flippancy and blasphemy, and the strong
scent of its loose-reined license works like a charm upon them. What boots it to reason against
such rampant affinities! In Ex. i. 13, it is said that the Egyptians, "made the children of
Israel to serve with rigor." This rigor is affirmed of the amount of labor extorted and the
mode of the exaction. The expression "serve with rigor," is never applied to the service of
servants under the Mosaic system. The phrase, "thou shall not RULE over him with rigor," does
not prohibit unreasonable exactions of labor, nor inflictions of cruelty. Such were provided
against otherwise. But it forbids confounding the distinctions between a Jew and a Stranger,
by assigning the former to the same grade of service, for the same term of time and under the
same political disabilities as the latter. 

Declaration of War; its Effect upon the Person and Property of the Enemy's Subjects; Stratagems in
War; Privateering Chapter LXVII.

Rights and Duties of Neutral Nations; Contraband Goods; Blockade;
Right of Search; Safe Conducts and Passports; Truces; Treaties of
Peace Synopsis of the State Constitutions.§ 1.

Mankind are social beings. They are by nature fitted for society. By this we mean that they are
naturally disposed to associate with each
other.

Indeed, such is their nature,
that they could not be happy without such association. Hence we conclude
that the Creator has designed men for society. It can not, therefore,
be true, as some say, that the savage state is the natural state of
man.§ 2. The Hebrew servant is to work with his master as a son or brother, in the business
of his farm, or other labor, until his legal release."]

[Footnote E: The disabilities of the Strangers, which were distinctions, based on a different
national descent, and important to the preservation of nation characteristics, and a national
worship, did not at all affect their social estimation. They were regarded according to their
character and worth as persons, irrespective of their foreign origin, employments and political
condition.]

We are now prepared to review at a glance, the condition of the different classes of servants,
with the modifications peculiar to each.

In the possession of all fundamental rights, all classes of servants were on an absolute equality,
all were equally protected by law in their persons, character, property and social relations;
all were voluntary, all were compensated for their labor, and released from it nearly one half
of the days in each year; all were furnished with stated instruction; none in either class
were in any sense articles of property, all were regarded as men, with the rights, interests,
hopes and destinies of men. In all these respects, all classes of servants among the Israelites,
formed but ONE CLASS. The different classes, and the differences in each class, were, 1. Hired
Servants. This class consisted both of Israelites and Strangers. Their employments were different.
The Israelite was an agricultural servant. The Stranger was a domestic and personal servant,
and in some instances mechanical; both were occasional and temporary. Both lived in their own
families, their wages were money, and they were paid when their work was done. 2. Bought Servants,
(including those "born in the house.") This class also, consisted of Israelites and Strangers,
the same difference in their kinds of employment as noticed before. Both were paid in advance,[A]
and neither was temporary. The Israelitish servant, with the exception of the freeholder, completed
his term in six years. The Stranger was a permanent servant, continuing until the jubilee.
A marked distinction obtained also between different classes of Jewish bought servants. Ordinarily,
they were merged in their master's family, and, like his wife and children, subject to his
authority; (and, like them, protected by law from its abuse.) But the freeholder was an exception;
his family relations and authority remained unaffected, nor was he subjected as an inferior
to the control of his master, though dependent on him for employment.

[Footnote A: The payment in advance, doubtless lessened the price of the purchase; the servant
thus having the use of the money, and the master assuming all the risks of life, and health
for labor; at the expiration of the six years' contract, the master having suffered no loss
from the risk incurred at the making of it, was obliged by law to release the servant with
a liberal gratuity. The reason assigned for this is, "he hath been worth a double hired servant
unto thee in serving thee six years," as if it had been said, as you have experienced no loss
from the risks of life, and ability to labor, incurred in the purchase, and which lessened
the price, and as, by being your servant for six years, he has saved you the time and trouble
of looking up and hiring laborers on emergencies, therefore, "thou shalt furnish him liberally,"
&c. This gratuity at the close of the service shews the principle of the relation; equivalent
for value received. ]

It should be kept in mind, that both classes of servants, the Israelite and the Stranger, not
only enjoyed equal, natural and religious rights, but all the civil and political privileges
enjoyed by those of their own people who were not servants. They also shared in common with
them the political disabilities which appertained to all Strangers, whether servants of Jewish
masters, or masters of Jewish servants. The paper, having been brushed over with the iodide
of potassium in solution, is washed in distilled water and dried. It is then brushed over with
nitrate of silver, and after drying is dipped for, a moment in a fresh solution of iodide of potassium
of only one-fourth the strength of the first, that is to say, one hundred and twenty-five grains
of the salt to a pint of water. After this it is again washed and dried. The advantage derived
from this method, is a more sensitive paper, and a more even distribution
of the compounds over the surface.

Another deviation from Mr. Talbot's method has been suggested, as
follows: Brush the paper over with a solution of one hundred grains
of nitrate of silver to an ounce of water.

When nearly, but not quite, dry, dip it into a solution of twenty-five grains of iodide of potassium
to one ounce of distilled water, drain it, wash it in distilled water and again drain it. Now brush
it over with aceto-nitrate of silver, made by dissolving fifty grains of nitrate of silver
in one ounce of distilled water, to which is added one sixth of its volume of strong acetic
acid. Dry it with bibulous paper, and it is ready for receiving the image. When the impression
has been received, which will require from one to five minutes according to the state of the weather,
it must be washed with a saturated solution of gallic acid to which a few drops of the aceto-nitrate
of silver, made as above, have been added. The image will thus be gradually brought out, and may
be fixed with hyposulphite of soda. To obtain the positive picture, paper must be used brushed over
with an ammonio-nitrate of silver, made thus: forty grains of nitrate of silver is to be dissolved
in one ounce of distilled water, and liquid ammonia cautiously added till it re-dissolves the precipitate.
A pleasing effect may be given to calotype, or indeed to all photographic
pictures, by waxing them at the back, and mounting them on white
paper, or if colored paper be used, various beautiful tones of color
are produced.

POSITIVE CALOTYPE. At a meeting of the British Association, Professor Grove described a process
by which positive calotype pictures could be directly obtained; and thus the necessity to transfer
by which the imperfections of the paper are shown, and which is moreover
a troublesome and tedious process, is avoided.

As light favors most chemical actions, Mr. Grove was led to believe
that a paper darkened by the sun (which darkening is supposed to result
from the precipitation of silver) might be bleached by using a solvent
which would not attack the silver in the dark, but would do so in
the light.

The plan found to be the most successful is as follows: ordinary calotype paper is darkened till
it assumes a deep brown color, almost amounting to black; it is then redipped into the ordinary solution of
iodide of potassium, and dried. When required for use it is drawn over dilute nitric acid--
one part acid to two and a half parts water. In this state, those parts exposed to the light
are rapidly bleached, while the parts not exposed remain unchanged. It is fixed by washing
in water, and subsequently in hyposulphite of soda, or bromide of potassium. Mr. Grove also describes
a process for converting a negative calotype into a positive one, which promises, when carried out,
to be of great utility. Let an ordinary calotype image or portrait be taken in the camera,
and developed by gallic acid; then drawn over iodide of potassium and dilute nitric acid and exposed
to full sunshine; while bleaching the dark parts, the light is redarkening the newly precipitated
iodide in the lighter portions and thus the negative picture is converted into a positive one.
The calotype process has been applied to the art of printing, in
England, but it possesses no advantages whatever over the method,
with type, now so gloriously brought to perfection; and I can hardly
think it will ever be made of any utility.

For the benefit of the curious, however, I will give Mr. Talbot's method. Some pages of letter-press
are taken printed on one side only; and waxed, to render them more
transparent; the letters are then cut out and sorted.

To compose a new page lines are ruled on a sheet of white paper, and the words are formed by fixing
the seperate letters in their proper order. The page being ready, a negative photograph is produced from
it, from which the requisite number of positive photogenic copies may be obtained. Another method,
which requires the use of the camera, consists in employing large
letters painted on rectangular pieces of wood, colored white.

These are arranged in lines on a tablet or board, by slipping them into grooves which keep them
steady and upright, thus forming a page on an enlarged scale. It
is now placed before a camera, and a reduced image of it of the required
size is thrown upon the sensitive paper.

The adjustments must be kept invariable, so that the consecutive
pages may not vary from one another in the size of the type.

Mr. Talbot has patented his process, but what benefit he expects to derive from it, I am at a loss to determine.
Enlarged copies of calotype or Daguerreotype portraits may be obtained by throwing magnified
images of them, by means of lenses, upon calotype paper. THE CHRYSOTYPE.
A modification of Mr. Talbot's process, to which the name of Chrysotype
was given by its discoverer, Sir John Herschel, was communicated in
June 1843 to the Royal Society, by that distinguished philosopher.

This modification would appear to unite the simplicity of photography with all the distinctness
and clearness of calotype. This preparation is as follows.

The paper is to be washed in a solution of ammonio-citrate of iron; it must then be dried, and subsequently
brushed over with a solution of the ferro-sesquicyanuret of potassium. This paper, when dried in
a perfectly dark room, is ready for use in the same manner as if otherwise prepared, the image
being subsequently brought out by any neutral solution of gold. Such was the first declaration of
his discovery, but he has since found that a neutral solution of silver is equally useful in bringing
out the picture. Photographic pictures taken on this paper are distinguished by a clearness of outline
foreign to all other methods. CHAP.

X. CYANOTYPE-- ENERGIATYPE-- CHROMATYPE-- ANTHOTYPE-- AMPHITYPE AND "CRAYON DAGUERREOTYPE." The several
processes enumerated at the head of this chapter, are all discoveries
of English philosophers, with the exception of the third and last
named.

Anthotype was first attempted by M. Ponton a French savan, although
it was reserved to Mr. Hunt to bring the process to its present state.

The "Crayon Daguerreotype" is an improvement made by J. A Whipple, Esq., of Boston. I. CYANOTYPE. So
called from the circumstance of cyanogen in its combinations with iron performing a leading
part in the process. It was discovered by Sir John Herschel. The process is a simple one, and the resulting
pictures are blue. Brush the paper over with a solution of the ammonio-citrate
of iron.

This solution should be sufficiently strong to resemble sherry wine in color. Expose the paper in the usual
way, and pass over it very sparingly and evenly a wash of the common yellow ferro-cyanate of potass. As soon
as the liquid is applied, the negative picture vanishes, and is replaced by a positive one, of a violet
blue color, on a greenish yellow ground, which at a certain time possesses a high degree of sharpness,
and singular beauty of tint. A curious process was discovered by Sir John Herschel, by which
dormant pictures are produced capable of developement by the breath, or by keeping in a moist atmosphere.
It is as follows.

If nitrate of silver, specific gravity 1.200 be added to ferro-tartaric
acid, specific gravity 1.023, a precipitate falls, which is in a great
measure redissolved by a gentle heat, leaving a black sediment, which,
being cleared by subsidence, a liquid of a pale yellow color is obtained,
in which the further addition of the nitrate causes no turbidness.

When the total quantity of the nitrated solution added amounts to
about half the bulk of the ferro-tartaric acid, it is enough.

The liquid so prepared does not alter if kept in the dark. Spread on paper, and exposed wet to the sunshine
(partly shaded) for a few seconds, no impression seems to be made, but by degrees, although
withdrawn from the action of light, it developes itself spontaneously, and at length becomes very
intense.

But if the paper be thoroughly dried in the dark, (in which state
it is of a very pale greenish yellow color,) it possesses the singular
property of receiving a dormant or invisible picture, to produce which
from thirty to sixty seconds'exposure to sunshine is requisite.

It should not be exposed too long, as not only is the ultimate effect less striking, but a picture
begins to be visibly produced, which darkens spontaneously after it is withdrawn. But if the
exposure be discontinued before this effect comes on, an invisible
impression is the result, to develope which all that is necessary
is to breathe upon it, when it immediately appears, and very speedily
acquires an extraordinary intensity and sharpness, as if by magic.

Instead of the breath, it may be subject to the regular action of aqueous vapor, by laying it in a blotting
paper book, of which some of the outer leaves on both sides have been dampened, or by holding over
warm water. II. ENERGIATYPE. Under this title a process has been brought forward by Mr. Hunt. It
consists of the application of a solution of succinic acid to paper, which is subsequently washed
over with nitrate of silver. The image is then to be taken either in the camera or otherwise, as
required, and is brought out by the application of the sulphate of
iron in solution.

Although this process has not come into general use, its exact description may be interesting
to the general reader, and we therefore subjoin it.

The solution with which the paper is first washed is to be prepared as follows: succinic acid,
two drachms; common salt, five grains; mucilage of gum arabic, half a fluid drachm; distilled
water, one fluid drachm and a half. When the paper is nearly dry, it is to be brushed over with a
solution of nitrate of silver, containing a drachm of the salt, to an ounce of distilled water. It is now
ready for exposure in the camera. To bring out the dormant picture it is necessary to wash
it with a mixture of a drachm of concentrated solution of the green sulphate of iron and two drachms
and a half of mucilage of gum arabic. Subsequently, however, it has been found that the sulphate of
iron produces upon all the salts of silver effects quite as beautiful as in the succinate. On
the iodide, bromide, acetate, and benzoate, the effects are far more pleasing and striking.
When pictures are produced, or the dormant camera image brought out, by the agency of sulphate
of iron, it is remarkable how rapidly the effect takes place. Engravings can be thus copied almost instantaneously,
and camera views obtained in one or two minutes on almost any preparation of silver. The common sulphate
of copper solution has the same property. III. CHROMATYPE. Many efforts have been made to render
chromatic acid an active agent in the production of photographs. M. Ponton used a paper saturated
with bichromate of potash, and this was one of the earliest photogenic processes. M. Becquerel improved
upon this process by sizing the paper with starch previous to the application of the bichromate of
potash solution, which enabled him to convert the negative picture into a positive one, by
the use of a solution of iodine, which combined with that portion of the starch on which the
light had not acted.

But by neither of these processes could clear and distinct pictures
be formed.

Mr. Hunt has, however, discovered a process which is so exceedingly simple, and the resulting pictures
of so pleasing a character, that, although it is not sufficiently sensitive for use in the
camera, it will be found of the greatest value for copying botanical specimens, engravings,
or the like. The paper to be prepared is washed over with a solution of sulphate of copper-- about one
drachm to an ounce of water-- and partially dried; it is then washed with a moderately strong solution
of bichromate of potash, and dried at a little distance from the
fire.

Paper thus prepared may be kept any length of time, in a portfolio, and are always ready for use.
When exposed to the sunshine for a time, varying with the intensity of the light, from five to fifteen
or twenty minutes, the result is generally a negative picture. It is now to be washed over with a solution
of nitrate of silver, which immediately produces a very beautiful deep orange picture upon a
light dim colored, or sometimes perfectly white ground. This picture must be quickly fixed, by
being washed in pure water, and dried. With regard to the strength of the solutions, it is a
remarkable fact, that, if saturated solutions be employed, a negative
picture is first produced, but if the solutions be three or four times
their bulk of water, the first action of the sun's rays darkens the
picture, and then a very bleaching effect follows, giving an exceedingly
faint positive picture, which is brought out with great delicacy by
the silver solution.

It is necessary that pure water should be used for the fixing, as the presence of any muriate
damages the picture, and here arises another pleasing variation of the Chromatype. If the
positive picture be placed in a very weak solution of common salt the image slowly fades out, leaving
a faint negative outline. If it now be removed from the saline solution, dried, and again
exposed to sunshine, a positive picture of a lilac color will be produced by a few minutes exposure.
Several other of the chromates may be used in this process, but none is so successful as the
chromate of copper. IV. ANTHOTYPE.

The expressed juice, alcoholic, or watery infusion of flowers, or
vegetable substances, may be made the media of photogenic action.

This fact was first discovered by Sir John Herschel. We have already given a few examples of this in the
third chapter. If alcohol be not added, the application on paper must be performed immediately, as the
air (even in a few minutes), irrecoverably changes or destroys their color. If alcohol be present
this change is much retarded, and in some cases is entirely prevented. Most flowers give out their
coloring matter to alcohol or water. Some, however, refuse to do so, and require the addition of
alkalies, others of acid,& c. Alcohol has, however, been found to enfeeble, and in many cases
to discharge altogether these colors; but they are, in most cases, restored upon drying, when spread
over paper. Papers tinged with vegetable colors must always be kept in the dark, and perfectly dry.
The color of a flower is by no means always, or usually, that which its expressed juice imparts
to white paper.

Sir John Herschel attributes these changes to the escape of carbonic acid in some cases; to a chemical
alteration, depending upon the absorption of oxygen, in others; and again in others, especially
where the expressed juice coagulates on standing, to a loss of vitality, or disorganization of the molecules.
To secure an eveness of tint on paper, the following manipulation
is recommended:-- The paper should be moistened on the back by sponging
and blotting off.

It should then be pinned on a board, the moist side downwards, so that two of its edges (suppose
the right-hand and lower ones) shall project a little beyond those of the board. When all is wet,
cross them by another set of strokes from above downwards, so managing the brush as to leave no floating
liquid on the paper. It must then be dried as quickly as possible over a stove, or in a warm current
of air, avoiding, however, such heat as may injure the tint. In addition to the flowers already
mentioned in my third chapter, the following are among those experimented upon and found to give tolerable
good photographic sensitives. I can only enumerate them, referring the student, for any further
information he may desire on the subject, to Mr. Hunt's work; although what I have said above is sufficient
for all practical purposes; and any one, with the ambition, can readily
experiment upon them, without further research, on any other flower
he may choose.

Viola Odorata-- or sweet sented violet, yields to alcohol a rich blue color, which it imparts
in high perfection to paper Senecio Splendens-- or double purple groundsel, yields a beautiful color to paper.
The leaves of the laurel, common cabbage, and the grasses, are found sufficiently sensitive.
Common Merrigold yields an invaluable faecula, which appears identical with that produced by
the Wall-flower, and Cochorus japonica mentioned before, and is very
sensitive, but photographs procured upon it cannot be preserved, the
color is so fugitive.

From
an examination of the researches of Sir John Herschel on the coloring
matter of plants, it will be seen that the action of the sun's rays
is to destroy the color, effecting a sort of chromatic analysis, in
which two distinct elements of color are separated, by destroying
the one and leaving the other outstanding.

The action is confined within the visible spectrum, and
thus a broad distinction is exhibited between the action of the sun's
rays on vegetable juices and on argentine compounds, the latter being
most sensibly affected by the invisible rays beyond the violet. The
10th and 11th verses contain the general rule prescribing the method in which cities were to
be summoned to surrender. They were first to receive the offer of peace--if it was accepted,
the inhabitants became tributaries--but if they came out against Israel in battle, the men
were to be killed, and the woman and little ones saved alive. The 15th verse restricts this
lenient treatment to the inhabitants of the cities afar off. The 16th directs as to the disposal
of the inhabitants of the Canaanitish cities. They were to save alive "nothing that breathed."
The common mistake has been, in supposing that the command in the 15th verse refers to the
whole system of directions preceding, commencing with the 10th, whereas it manifestly refers
only to the inflictions specified in the 12th, 13th, and, 14th, making a distinction between
those Canaanitish cities that fought, and the cities afar off that fought--in one case destroying
the males and females, and in the other, the males only. The offer of peace, and the conditional
preservation, were as really guarantied to Canaanitish cities as to others. Their inhabitants
were not to be exterminated unless they came out against Israel in battle. Whatever be the
import of the commands respecting the disposition to be made of the Canaanites, all admit the
fact that the Israelites did not utterly exterminate them. Now, if entire and unconditional
extermination was the command of God, it was never obeyed by the Israelites, consequently the
truth of God stood pledged to consign them to the same doom which he had pronounced upon the
Canaanites, but which they had refused to visit upon them. "If ye will not drive out all the
inhabitants of the land from before you, then it shall come to pass that * * I shall do unto
you as I thought to do unto them." Num. xxxiii. 55, 56. As the Israelites were not exterminated,
we infer that God did not pronounce that doom upon them; and as he did pronounce upon them
the same doom, whatever it was, which they should refuse to visit upon the Canaanites, it follows
that the doom of unconditional extermination was not pronounced against the Canaanites. But
let us settle this question by the "law and the testimony." For it was of the Lord to harden
their hearts, that they should COME OUT AGAINST ISRAEL IN BATTLE, that he might destroy them
utterly, and that they might have no favor, but that he might destroy them, as the Lord commanded
Moses." Josh. xi. 19. 20. That is, if they had not come out against Israel in battle, they
would have had "favor" shown them, and would not have been "destroyed utterly." The great design
was to transfer the territory of the Canaanites to the Israelites, and along with it, absolute
sovereignty in every respect; to annihilate their political organizations, civil polity, and
jurisprudence, and their system of religion, with all its rights and appendages; and to substitute
therefor, a pure theocracy, administered by Jehovah, with the Israelites as His representatives
and agents. In a word the people were to be denationalized, their political existence annihilated,
their idol temples, altars, groves, images, pictures, and heathen rites destroyed, and themselves
put under tribute. Those who resisted the execution of Jehovah's purpose were to be killed,
while those who quietly submitted to it were to be spared. All had the choice of these alternatives,
either free egress out of the land;[E] or acquiescence in the decree, with life and residence
as tributaries, under the protection of the government; or resistance to the execution of the
decree, with death.

[Footnote A: In the prophecy, Gen. ix. 25, the subjection of the Canaanites as a conquered
people rendering tribute to other nations, is foretold by inspiration. The fulfilment of this
prediction, seems to have commenced in the subjection of the Canaanites to the Israelites as
tributaries. The following passages are, if possible still more explicit--"The Lord shall send
upon thee cursing, vexation and rebuke in all that thou settest thine hand unto for to do,
until thou be destroyed, and until thou perish quickly." "The Lord shall make the pestilence
cleave unto thee until he have consumed thee." "They (the 'sword,' 'blasting,' &c.) shall pursue
thee until thou perish." "From heaven shall it come down upon thee until thou be destroyed."
"All these curses shall come upon thee till thou be destroyed." "He shall put a yoke of iron
upon thy neck until he have destroyed thee." "The Lord shall bring a nation against thee, a
nation of fierce countenance, which shall not regard the person of the old, nor show favor
to the young, * * until he have destroyed thee." All these, with other similar threatenings
of destruction, are contained in the twenty-eighth chapter of Deut. See verses 20-25, 45, 48,
51. In the same chapter God declares that as a punishment for the same transgressions, the
Israelites shall "be removed into all the kingdoms of the earth," thus showing that the terms
employed in the other verses, "destroy," "perish," "perish quickly," "consume," &c., instead
of signifying utter, personal destruction doubtless meant their destruction as an independent
nation. In Josh. xxiv. 8, 18, "destroyed" and "drave out," are used synonymously.]

[Footnote C: Perhaps it will be objected, that the preservation of the Gibeonites, and of Rahab
and her kindred, was a violation of the command of God. We answer, if it had been, we might
expect some such intimation. If God had straitly commanded them to exterminate all the Canaanites,
their pledge to save them alive, was neither a repeal of the statute, nor absolution for the
breach of it. If unconditional destruction was the import of the command, would God have permitted
such an act to pass without rebuke? Would he have established such a precedent when Israel
had hardly passed the threshold of Canaan, and was then striking the first blow of a half century
war? What if they had passed their word to Rahab and the Gibeonites? Was that more binding
than God's command? So Saul seems to have passed his word to Agag; yet Samuel hewed him in
pieces, because in saving his life, Saul had violated God's command. When Saul sought to slay
the Gibeonites in "his zeal for the children of Israel and Judah," God sent upon Israel a three
years' famine for it. When David inquired of them what atonement he should make, they say,
"The man that devised against us, that we should be destroyed from remaining in any of the
coast of Israel, let seven of his sons be delivered," &c. 2 Sam. xxi. The following are the best.

Bromine water-- This solution is much used in France, and, I shall therefore give its preparation,
and the method of using it, in the words of M. Figeau.

"Put into a bottle of pure water, a large excess of bromine; shake the mixture well, and before
using it, let all the bromine be taken up. An ascertained quantity of this saturated water
is then diluted in a given quantity of distilled water, which gives a solution of bromine that is
always identical." M. Figeau recommends one part of the saturated solution to thirty parts its
bulk of water; but M. Lesebour finds it more manageable if diluted
with forty times.

In case pure distilled, or rain water cannot be procured, a few drops of nitric acid-- say six
to the quart-- should be added to the common water.

       

Put into the bromine box a given quantity of this solution, sufficient to well cover the bottom;
the plate, having been iodized to a deep yellow, is placed over it; the time the plate should be exposed
must be ascertained by making a few trials; it averages from twelve
to forty seconds.

When once ascertained, it is the same for any number of plates, as the solution, which of course
would become weaker and weaker, is changed after every operation, the same quantity being always
put into the pot.

Chloride of Iodine.-- This is prepared by introducing chlorine gass into a glass vessel containing
iodine; the iodine is liquified, and the above named compound is the result. Operators need
not, however, be at the trouble and expense of preparing it, as it
can be obtained perfectly pure of Mr. Anthony, 205 Broadway, N. Y.,
as also all of the chemicals herein enumerated.

The compound is diluted with distilled water, and the plate submitted
to its action till it is of a rose color.

Chloride of iodine alone, is seldom if ever used now by American
operators, as it does not sufficiently come up to their locomotive
principle of progression.

The next is also eschewed by the majority, although many of our best
artists use no other, on account of the very fine tone it gives to
pictures.

Bromide of Iodine.-- This is a compound of bromine and chloride of iodine. In mixing it, much depends
upon the strength of the ingredients; an equal portion of each being generally used. Perhaps
the best method of preparing it, is to make a solution in alcohol of half an ounce of chloride
of iodine, and add the bromine drop by drop, until the mixture becomes of a dark red color;
then dilute with distilled water, till it assumes a bright yellow. Put about half an ounce of
this compound into the pot, and coat over it to a violet color, change the solution when it becomes
too weak to produce the desired effect.

Another.-- Mix half an ounce of bromine with one ounce of chloride of iodine, add two quarts pure
distilled water, shake it well and let it stand for twelve hours then add twenty-five drops
of muriatic acid, and let it stand another twelve hours, occasionally shaking it up well. Dilute
six parts of this solution in sixteen of water. Coat over dry iodine to a deep yellow, then
over the sensitive to a deep rose color-- approaching purple-- then back, over dry iodine from
four to eight seconds.

Roach's Tripple Compound.-- This is one of the very best sensitive solutions, and is very popular
among Daguerreotypists. To use this, take one part in weight, say one drachm, of the compound
and dilute it with twelve of water; coat over dry iodine to yellow, then over the compound to a
rosy red. The effect in the camera is quick, and produces a picture
of a fine white tone.

Gurney's Sensitive.-- This is another preparation of bromine, and gives a fine tone. To two parts of
water add one of the sensitive, and put just sufficient in the box
to cover the bottom, or enable you to coat in from eight to ten seconds.
Coat over dry iodine to a dark yellow, and over the quick till you
see a good change, then back over the dry iodine from two to three
seconds. What saith the CONSTITUTION? That is the question.
Why mock it by demanding impossibilities?

The first general Congress met in 1774. The clergy begin to bear a public testimony against
this violation of the laws of nature and christianity. Great events have been brought about
by small beginnings. May this conviction soon reach every owner of slaves in North America!
Whether men can part with their liberty, is among the questions which have exercised the ablest
writers; but it is conceded on all hands, that the right to be free CAN NEVER BE ALIENATED--still
less is it practicable for one generation to mortgage the privileges of another." This is a
strong expression, but it is just. With respect to the alarm that was apprehended, he conjectured
there was none; but there might be just cause, if the memorial was not taken into consideration.
Let us argue on principles countenanced by reason, and becoming humanity. The inconsistency
in our principles, with which we are justly charged should be done away, that we may show by
our actions the pure beneficence of the doctrine we held out to the world in our Declaration
of Independence."  *  *  *  *  *  What is to be done for compensation? Will Virginia set all
her negroes free? Will they give up the money they have cost them; and to whom? The constitution
has particularly called our attention to it. I do not wish to say any thing harsh to the hearing
of gentlemen who entertain different sentiments from me, or different sentiments from those
I represent. But if there is any one point in which it is clearly the policy of this nation,
so far as we constitutionally can, to vary the practice obtaining under some of the state governments,
it is this. But it is certain a majority of the states are opposed to this practice."--[Cong.
In America, a slave is a standing monument of the tyranny and inconsistency of human governments.
I would as soon believe the incoherent tale of a schoolboy, who should tell me he had been
frightened by a ghost, as that the grant of this permission (to emancipate) ought in any degree
to alarm us. The body of the People determined the Tea should not be landed; the determination
was deliberate, was judicious; the sacrifice of their Rights, of the Union of all the Colonies,
would have been the effect had they conducted with less resolution: On the Committee of Correspondence
they devolved the care of seeing their resolutions seasonably executed; that body, as I have been informed
by one of their members, had taken every step prudence and patriotism
could suggest, to effect the desirable purpose, but were defeated.

The Body once more assembled, I was again present; such a collection of the people was to me a novelty;
near seven thousand persons from several towns, Gentlemen, Merchants, Yeomen, and others, respectable
for their rank and abilities, and venerable for their age and character, constituted the assembly;
they decently, unanimously and firmly adhered to their former resolution, that the baleful commodity
which was to rivet and establish the duty should never be landed; to prevent the mischief they
repeated the desires of the Committee of the Towns, that the owner of the ship should apply for a
clearance; it appeared that Mr. Rotch had been managed and was still under the influence of
the opposite party; he resisted the request of the people to apply for a clearance for his ship
with an obstinacy which, in my opinion, bordered on stubbornness-- subdued
at length by the peremptory demand of the Body, he consented to apply,
a committee of ten respectable gentlemen were appointed to attend
him to the collector; the Body meeting the same morning by adjournment,
Mr. Rotch was directed to protest in form, and then apply to the Governor
for a Pass by the Castle; Mr. Rotch executed his commission with fidelity,
but a pass could not be obtained, his Excellency excusing himself
in his refusal that he should not make the precedent of granting a
pass till a clearance was obtained, which was indeed a fallacy, as
it had been usual with him in ordinary cases,-- Mr. Rotch returning
in the evening reported as above; the Body then voted his conduct
to be satisfactory, and recommending order and regularity to the People,
dissolved. But it
is certain a majority of the states are opposed to this practice."--Cong. Reg. v. 1, p. 308-12.
In America, a slave is a standing monument of the tyranny and inconsistency of human governments.
Dishonorable to the species is the idea that they would ever prove injurious to our interests--released
from the shackles of slavery, by the justice of government and the bounty of individuals--the
want of fidelity and attachment would be next to impossible." Law, in a general sense, is a rule
of action, and is applied to all kinds of action. But in its limited
and proper sense, it denotes the rules of human action prescribing
what men are to do, and forbidding what they are not to do.

By voting for this resolution, the south, by a simultaneous movement, shifted its mode of defense,
not so much by taking a position entirely new, as by attempting to refortify an old one--never
much trusted in, and abandoned mainly long ago, as being unable to hold out against assault
however unskilfully directed. They are best kept in a box in which sifted quicklime has been placed,
deep enough to admit of the blades being completely plunged into it. The lime must not touch
the handles, which should be occasionally exposed to the air, to
keep them from turning yellow.

BLACK LACE-- TO REVIVE Make some black tea, about the strength usual
for drinking, and strain it off the leaves.

Pour enough tea into a basin to cover the material, then squeeze the lace several times, but do
not rub it. Dip it frequently into the tea, which will at length assume
a dirty appearance.

Have ready some weak gum-water and press the lace gently through it;
then clap it for a quarter of an hour; after which, pin it to a towel
in any shape which you wish it to take.

The resolution, as it finally passed, is here inserted. The original Resolution, as moved by
Mr. Clay, was inserted at the head of this postscript with the impression that it was the amended
form. It will be seen however, that it underwent no material modification.

