She met him at the gate. His cheeks were suddenly flushed, his eyes bright, and the smile with
which he looked at her seemed to be joyous; yet it gave her a sense of pain and terror.

"Oh, Gilbert!" she cried; "what has happened?"

He slid slowly and wearily off the horse, whose neck he fondled a moment before answering her.

"Mother," he said at last, "you have to thank Roger that I am here tonight. I have come back
to you from the gates of death; will you be satisfied with that for a while?"

"I don't understand you, my boy! You frighten me; haven't you been at Chester?"

"No," he answered, "there was no use of going."

A presentiment of the truth came to her, but before she could question him further, he spoke again.

"Mother, let us go into the house. I'm cold and tired; I want to sit in your old rocking-chair,
where I can rest my head. Then I'll tell you everything; I wish I had an easier task!"

She noticed that his steps were weak and slow, felt that his hands were like ice, and saw his
blue lips and chattering teeth. She removed the strange cloak, placed her chair in front of
the fire, seated him in it, and then knelt upon the floor to draw off his stiff, sodden top-boots.
He was passive as a child in her hands. Her care for him overcame all other dread, and not
until she had placed his feet upon a stool, in the full warmth of the blaze, given him a glass
of hot wine and lavender, and placed a pillow under his head, did she sit down at his side
to hear the story.

"I thought of this, last night," he said, with a faint smile; "not that I ever expected to
see it. The man was right; it's a mercy of God that I ever got out alive!"

"Then be grateful to God, my boy!" she replied, "and let me be grateful, too. It will balance
misfortune,--for that there it misfortune in store for us. I see plainly."

Gilbert then spoke. The narrative was long and painful, and he told it wearily and brokenly,
yet with entire truth, disguising nothing of the evil that had come upon them. His mother sat
beside him, pale, stony, stifling the sobs that rose in her throat, until he reached the period
of his marvellous rescue, when she bent her head upon his arm and wept aloud.

"That's all, mother!" he said at the close; "it's hard to bear, but I'm more troubled on your
account than on my own."

"Oh, I feared we were over-sure!" she cried. "I claimed payment before it was ready. The Lord
chooses His own time, and punishes them that can't wait for His ways to be manifest! It's terribly
hard; and yet, while His left hand smites, His right hand gives mercy! He might ha' taken you,
my boy, but He makes a miracle to save you for me!"

When she had outwept her passionate tumult of feeling, she grew composed and serene. "Haven't
I yet learned to be patient, in all these years?" she said. "Haven't I sworn to work out with
open eyes the work I took in blindness? And after waiting twenty-five years, am I to murmur
at another year or two? No, Gilbert! It's to be done; I will deserve my justice! Keep your
courage, my boy; be brave and patient, and the sight of you will hold me from breaking down!"

She arose, felt his hands and feet, set his pillow aright, and then stooped and kissed him.
His chills had ceased; a feeling of heavy, helpless languor crept over him.

"Let Sam see to Roger, mother!" he murmured. "Tell him not to spare the oats."

"I'd feed him with my own hands, Gilbert, if I could leave you. I'd put fine wheat-bread into
his manger, and wrap him in blankets off my own bed! To think that Roger,--that I didn't want
you to buy,--Lord forgive me, I was advising your own death!"

It was fortunate for Mary Potter that she saw a mysterious Providence, which, to her mind,
warned and yet promised while it chastised, in all that had occurred. This feeling helped her
to bear a disappointment, which would otherwise have been very grievous. The idea of an atoning
ordeal, which she must endure in order to be crowned with the final justice, and so behold
her life redeemed, had become rooted in her nature. To Gilbert much of this feeling was inexplicable,
because he was ignorant of the circumstances which had called it into existence. But he saw
that his mother was not yet hopeless, that she did not seem to consider her deliverance as
materially postponed, and a glimmer of hope was added to the relief of having told his tale.

He was still feverish, dozing and muttering in uneasy dreams, as he lay back in the old rocking-chair,
and Mary Potter, with Sam's help, got him to bed, after administering a potion which she was
accustomed to use in all complaints, from mumps to typhus fever.

As for Roger, he stood knee-deep in clean litter, with half a bushel of oats before him.

The next morning Gilbert did not arise, and as he complained of great soreness in every part
of his body, Sam was dispatched for Dr. Deane.

It was the first time this gentleman had ever been summoned to the Potter farm-house. Mary
Potter felt considerable trepidation at his arrival, both on account of the awe which his imposing
presence inspired, and the knowledge of her son's love for his daughter,--a fact which, she
rightly conjectured, he did not suspect. As he brought his ivory-headed cane, his sleek drab
broadcloth, and his herbaceous fragrance into the kitchen, she was almost overpowered.

"How is thy son ailing?" he asked. "He always seemed to me to be a very healthy young man."

She described the symptoms with a conscientious minuteness.

"How was it brought on?" he asked again.

She had not intended to relate the whole story, but only so much of it as was necessary for
the Doctor's purposes; but the commencement excited his curiosity, and he knew so skilfully
how to draw one word after another, suggesting further explanations without directly asking
them, that Mary Potter was led on and on, until she had communicated all the particulars of
her son's misfortune.

"This is a wonderful tale thee tells me," said the Doctor--"wonderful! Sandy Flash, no doubt,
has reason to remember thy son, who, I'm told, faced him very boldly on Second-day morning.
It is really time the country was aroused; we shall hardly be safe in our own houses. And all
night in the Brandywine flood--I don't wonder thy son is unwell. Let me go up to him."

Dr. Deane's prescriptions usually conformed to the practice of his day,--bleeding and big doses,--and
he would undoubtedly have applied both of these in Gilbert's case, but for the latter's great
anxiety to be in the saddle and on the hunt of his enemy. He stoutly refused to be bled, and
the Doctor had learned, from long observation, that patients of a certain class must be humored
rather than coerced. So he administered a double dose of Dover's Powders, and prohibited the
drinking of cold water. His report was, on the whole, reassuring to Mary Potter. Provided his
directions were strictly followed, he said, her son would be up in two or three days; but there
might be a turn for the worse, as the shock to the system had been very great, and she ought
to have assistance.

"There's no one I can call upon," said she, "without it's Betsy Lavender, and I must ask you
to tell her for me, if you think she can come."

"I'll oblige thee, certainly," the Doctor answered. "Betsy is with us, just now, and I don't
doubt but she can spare a day or two. She may be a little headstrong in her ways, but thee'll
find her a safe nurse."

It was really not necessary, as the event proved. Rest and warmth were what Gilbert most needed.
But Dr. Deane always exaggerated his patient's condition a little, in order that the credit
of the latter's recovery might be greater. The present case was a very welcome one, not only
because it enabled him to recite a most astonishing narrative at second-hand, but also because
it suggested a condition far more dangerous than that which the patient actually suffered.
He was the first person to bear the news to Kennett Square, where it threw the village into
a state of great excitement, which rapidly spread over the neighborhood.

He related it at his own tea-table that evening, to Martha and Miss Betsy Lavender. The former
could with difficulty conceal her agitation; she turned red and pale, until the Doctor finally
remarked,--

"Why, child, thee needn't be so frightened."

"Never mind!" exclaimed Miss Betsy, promptly coming to the rescue, "it's enough to frighten
anybody. It fairly makes me shiver in my shoes. If Alf. Barton had ha' done his dooty like
a man, this wouldn't ha' happened!"

"I've no doubt Alfred did the best he could, under the circumstances," the Doctor sternly remarked.

"Fiddle-de-dee!" was Miss Betsy's contemptuous answer. "He's no more gizzard than a rabbit.
But that's neither here nor there; Mary Potter wants me to go down and help, and go I will!"

"Yes, I think thee might as well go down to-morrow morning, though I'm in hopes the young man
may be better, if he minds my directions," said the Doctor.

"To-morrow mornin'? Why not next week? When help's wanted, give it right away; don't let the
grass grow under your feet, say I! Good luck that I gev up Mendenhall's home-comin' over t'
the Lion, or I wouldn't ha' been here; so another cup o' tea, Martha, and I'm off!"

Martha left the table at the same time, and followed Miss Betsy up-stairs. Her eyes were full
of tears, but she did not tremble, and her voice came firm and clear.

"I am going with you," she said.

Miss Lavender whirled around and looked at her a minute, without saying a word.

"I see you mean it, child. Don't think me hard or cruel, for I know your feelin's as well as
if they was mine; but all the same, I've got to look ahead, and back'ards, and on this side
and that, and so lookin', and so judgin', accordin' to my light, which a'n't all tied up in
a napkin, what I've got to say is, and ag'in don't think me hard, it won't do!"

"Betsy," Martha Deane persisted, "a misfortune like this brings my duty with it. Besides, he
may be in great danger; he may have got his death,"--

"Don't begin talkin' that way," Miss Lavender interrupted, "or you'll put me out o' patience.
I'll say that for your father, he's always mortal concerned for a bad case, Gilbert Potter
or not; and I can mostly tell the heft of a sickness by the way he talks about it,--so that's
settled; and as to dooties, it's very well and right, I don't deny it, but never mind, all
the same, I said before, the whole thing's a snarl, and I say it ag'in, and unless you've got
the end o' the ravellin's in your hand, the harder you pull, the wuss you'll make it!"

There was good sense in these words, and Martha Deane felt it. Her resolution began to waver,
in spite of the tender instinct which told her that Gilbert Potter now needed precisely the
help and encouragement which she alone could give.

"Oh, Betsy," she murmured, her tears falling without restraint, "it's hard for me to seem so
strange to him, at such a time!"

"Yes," answered the spinster, setting her comb tight with a fierce thrust, "it's hard every
one of us can't have our own ways in this world! But don't take on now, Martha dear; we only
have your father's word, and not to be called a friend's, but I'll see how the land lays, and
tomorrow evenin', or next day at th' outside, you'll know everything fair and square. Neither
you nor Gilbert is inclined to do things rash, and what you both agree on, after a proper understanding
I guess'll be pretty nigh right. There! where's my knittin'-basket?"

Miss Lavender trudged off, utterly fearless of the night walk of two miles, down the lonely
road. In less than an hour she knocked at the door of the farm-house, and was received with
open arms by Mary Potter. Gilbert had slept the greater part of the day, but was now awake,
and so restless, from the desire to leave his bed, that his mother could with difficulty restrain
him.

"Set down and rest yourself, Mary!" Miss Betsy exclaimed. "I'll go up and put him to rights."

She took a lamp and mounted to the bed-room. Gilbert, drenched in perspiration, and tossing
uneasily under a huge pile of blankets, sprang up as her gaunt figure entered the door. She
placed the lamp on a table, pressed him down on the pillow by main force, and covered him up
to the chin.

"Martha?" he whispered, his face full of intense, piteous eagerness.

"Will you promise to lay still and sweat, as you're told

"Yes, yes!"

"Now let me feel your pulse. That'll do; now for your tongue! Tut, tut! the boy's not so bad.
I give you my word you may get up and dress yourself to-morrow mornin', if you'll only hold
out to-night. And as for thorough-stem tea, and what not, I guess you've had enough of 'em;
but you can't jump out of a sick-spell into downright peartness, at one jump!"

"Martha, Martha!" Gilbert urged.

"You're both of a piece, I declare! There was she, this very night, dead set on comin' down
with me, and mortal hard it was to persuade her to be reasonable!"

Miss Lavender had not a great deal to relate, but Gilbert compelled her to make up by repetition
what she lacked in quantity. And at every repetition the soreness seemed to decrease in his
body, and the weakness in his muscles, and hope and courage to increase in his heart.

"Tell her," he exclaimed, "it was enough that she wanted to come. That alone has put new life
into me!"

"I see it has," said Miss Lavender, "and now, maybe, you've got life enough to tell me all
the ups and downs o' this affair, for I can't say as I rightly understand it."

The conference was long and important. Gilbert related every circumstance of his adventure,
including the mysterious allusion to Alfred Barton, which he had concealed from his mother.
He was determined, as his first course, to call the volunteers together and organize a thorough
hunt for the highwayman. Until that had been tried, he would postpone all further plans of
action. Miss Lavender did not say much, except to encourage him in this determination. She
felt that there was grave matter for reflection in what had happened. The threads of mystery
seemed to increase, and she imagined it possible that they might all converge to one unknown point.

"Mary," she said, when she descended to the kitchen, "I don't see but what the boy's goin'
on finely. Go to bed, you, and sleep quietly; I'll take the settle, here, and I promise you
I'll go up every hour through the night, to see whether he's kicked his coverin's off."

Which promise she faithfully kept, and in the morning Gilbert came down to breakfast, a little
haggard, but apparently as sound as ever. Even the Doctor, when he arrived, was slightly surprised
at the rapid improvement.

"A fine constitution for medicines to work on," he remarked. "I wouldn't wish thee to be sick,
but when thee is, it's a pleasure to see how thy system obeys the treatment."

Martha Deane, during Miss Lavender's absence, had again discussed, in her heart, her duty to
Gilbert. Her conscience was hardly satisfied with the relinquishment of her first impulse.
She felt that there was, there must be, something for her to do in this emergency. She knew
that he had toiled, and dared, and suffered for her sake, while she had done nothing. It was
not pride,--at least not the haughty quality which bears an obligation uneasily,--but rather
the impulse, at once brave and tender, to stand side by side with him in the struggle, and
win an equal right to the final blessing.

In the afternoon Miss Lavender returned, and her first business was to give a faithful report
of Gilbert's condition and the true story of his misfortune, which she repeated, almost word
for word, as it came from his lips. It did not differ materially from that which Martha had
already heard, and the direction which her thoughts had taken, in the mean time, seemed to
be confirmed. The gentle, steady strength of purpose that looked from her clear blue eyes,
and expressed itself in the firm, sharp curve of her lip, was never more distinct than when
she said,--

"Now, Betsy, all is clear to me. You were right before, and I am right now. I must see Gilbert
when he calls the men together, and after that I shall know how to act."

Three days afterwards, there was another assemblage of the Kennett Volunteers at the Unicorn
Tavern. This time, however, Mark Deane was on hand, and Alfred Barton did not make his appearance.
That Gilbert Potter should take the command was an understood matter. The preliminary consultation
was secretly held, and when Dougherty, the Irish ostler, mixed himself, as by accident, among
the troop, Gilbert sharply ordered him away. Whatever the plan of the chase was, it was not
communicated to the crowd of country idlers; and there was, in consequence, some grumbling
at, and a great deal of respect for, the new arrangement.

Miss Betsy Lavender had managed to speak to Gilbert before the others arrived; therefore, after
they had left, to meet the next day, equipped for a possible absence of a week, he crossed
the road and entered Dr. Deane's house.

This time the two met, not so much as lovers, but rather as husband and wife might meet after
long absence and escape from imminent danger. Martha Deane knew how cruel and bitter Gilbert's
fate must seem to his own heart, and she resolved that all the cheer which lay in her buoyant,
courageous nature should be given to him. Never did a woman more sweetly blend the tones of
regret and faith, sympathy and encouragement.

"The time has come, Gilbert," she said at last, "when our love for each other must no longer
be kept a secret--at least from the few who, under other circumstances, would have a right
to know it. We must still wait, though no longer (remember that!) than we were already agreed
to wait; but we should betray ourselves, sooner or later, and then the secret, discovered by
others, would seem to hint at a sense of shame. We shall gain respect and sympathy, and perhaps
help, if we reveal it ourselves. Even if you do not take the same view, Gilbert, think of this,
that it is my place to stand beside you in your hour of difficulty and trial; that other losses,
other dangers, may come, and you could not, you must not, hold me apart when my heart tells
me we should be together!"

She laid her arms caressingly over his shoulders, and looked in his face. A wonderful softness
and tenderness touched his pale, worn countenance. "Martha," he said, "remember that my disgrace
will cover you, yet awhile."

"Gilbert!"

That one word, proud, passionate, reproachful, yet forgiving, sealed his lips.

"So be it!" he cried. "God knows, I think but of you. If I selfishly considered myself, do
you think I would hold back my own honor?"

"A poor honor," she said, "that I sit comfortably at home and love you, while you are face
to face with death!"

Martha Deane's resolution was inflexibly taken. That same evening she went into the sitting-room,
where her father was smoking a pipe before the open stove, and placed her chair opposite to his.

"Father," she said, "thee has never asked any questions concerning Alfred Barton's visit."

The Doctor started, and looked at her keenly, before replying. Her voice had its simple, natural
tone, her manner was calm and self-possessed; yet something in her firm, erect posture and
steady eye impressed him with the idea that she had determined on a full and final discussion
of the question.

