The other end of the cylinder began to rise, but at this moment Crab R, apparently by a single
effort, lifted herself a foot higher out of the sea; her pincers flashed forward, and the other
chain was grasped.

The two crabs were now placed in the most extraordinary position.  The overhang of their roofs
prevented an attack on their hulls by the Llangaron, but their unmailed hulls were so greatly
exposed that a few shot from another ship could easily have destroyed them.  But as any ship
firing at them would be very likely to hit the Llangaron, their directors felt safe on this point.

Three of the foremost ironclads, less than two miles away, were heading directly for them,
and their rams might be used with but little danger to the Llangaron; but, on the other hand,
three swift crabs were heading directly for these ironclads.

It was impossible for Crabs Q and R to operate in the usual way.  Their massive forceps, lying
flat against the top of the cylinder, could not be twisted.  The enormous chains they held
could not be severed by the greatest pressure, and if both crabs backed at once they would
probably do no more than tow the Llangaron stern foremost.  There was, moreover, no time to
waste in experiments, for other rams would be coming on, and there were not crabs enough to
attend to them all.

No time was wasted.  Q signalled to R, and R back again, and instantly the two crabs, each
still grasping a chain of the cylinder, began to sink.  On board the Llangaron an order was
shouted to let out the cylinder chains; but as these chains had only been made long enough
to allow the top of the cylinder to hang at or a little below the surface of the water, a foot
or two of length was all that could be gained.

The davits from which the cylinder hung were thick and strong, and the iron windlasses to which
the chains were attached were large and ponderous; but these were not strong enough to withstand
the weight of two crabs with steel-armoured roofs, enormous engines, and iron hull. In less
than a minute one davit snapped like a pipe-stem under the tremendous strain, and immediately
afterward the windlass to which the chain was attached was torn from its bolts, and went crashing
overboard, tearing away a portion of the stern-rail in its descent.

Crab Q instantly released the chain it had held, and in a moment the great cylinder hung almost
perpendicularly from one chain.  But only for a moment.  The nippers of Crab R still firmly
held the chain, and the tremendous leverage exerted by the falling of one end of the cylinder
wrenched it from the rigidly held end of its chain, and, in a flash, the enormous stern-guard
of the Llangaron sunk, end foremost, to the bottom of the channel.

In ten minutes afterward, the Llangaron, rudderless, and with the blades of her propellers
shivered and crushed, was slowly turning her starboard to the wind and the sea, and beginning
to roll like a log of eight thousand tons.

Besides the Llangaron, three ironclads were now drifting broadside to the sea.  But there was
no time to succour disabled vessels, for the rest of the fleet was coming on, and there was
great work for the crabs.

Against these enemies, swift of motion and sudden in action, the torpedo-boats found it almost
impossible to operate, for the British ships and the crabs were so rapidly nearing each other
that a torpedo sent out against an enemy was more than likely to run against the hull of a
friend.  Each crab sped at the top of its speed for a ship, not only to attack, but also to
protect itself.

Once only did the crabs give the torpedo-boats a chance.  A mile or two north of the scene
of action, a large cruiser was making her way rapidly toward the repeller, which was still
lying almost motionless, four miles to the westward.  As it was highly probable that this vessel
carried dynamite guns, Crab Q, which was the fastest of her class, was signalled to go after
her.  She had scarcely begun her course across the open space of sea before a torpedo-boat
was in pursuit.  Fast as was the latter, the crab was faster, and quite as easily managed.
She was in a position of great danger, and her only safety lay in keeping herself on a line
between the torpedo-boat and the gun-boat, and to shorten as quickly as possible the distance
between herself and that vessel.

If the torpedo-boat shot to one side in order to get the crab out of line, the crab, its back
sometimes hidden by the tossing waves, sped also to the same side.  When the torpedo-boat could
aim a gun at the crab and not at the gun-boat, a deadly torpedo flew into the sea; but a tossing
sea and a shifting target were unfavourable to the gunner's aim.  It was not long, however,
before the crab had run the chase which might so readily have been fatal to it, and was so
near the gun-boat that no more torpedoes could be fired at it.

Of course the officers and crew of the gun-boat had watched with most anxious interest the
chase of the crab.  The vessel was one which had been fitted out for service with dynamite
guns, of which she carried some of very long range for this class of artillery, and she had
been ordered to get astern of the repeller and to do her best to put a few dynamite bombs on
board of her.

The dynamite gun-boat therefore had kept ahead at full speed, determined to carry out her instructions
if she should be allowed to do so; but her speed was not as great as that of a crab, and when
the torpedo-boat had given up the chase, and the dreaded crab was drawing swiftly near, the
captain thought it time for bravery to give place to prudence.  With the large amount of explosive
material of the most tremendous and terrific character which he had on board, it would be the
insanity of courage for him to allow his comparatively small vessel to be racked, shaken, and
partially shivered by the powerful jaws of the on-coming foe.  As he could neither fly nor
fight, he hauled down his flag in token of surrender, the first instance of the kind which
had occurred in this war.

When the director of Crab Q, through his lookout-glass, beheld this action on the part of the
gun-boat, he was a little perplexed as to what he should next do.  To accept the surrender
of the British vessel, and to assume control of her, it was necessary to communicate with her.
The communications of the crabs were made entirely by black-smoke signals, and these the captain
of the gun-boat could not understand. The heavy hatches in the mailed roof which could be put
in use when the crab was cruising, could not be opened when she was at her fighting depth,
and in a tossing sea.

A means was soon devised of communicating with the gun-boat.  A speaking-tube was run up through
one of the air-pipes of the crab, which pipe was then elevated some distance above the surface.
Through this the director hailed the other vessel, and as the air-pipe was near the stern of
the crab, and therefore at a distance from the only visible portion of the turtle-back roof,
his voice seemed to come out of the depths of the ocean.

The surrender was accepted, and the captain of the gun-boat was ordered to stop his engines
and prepare to be towed.  When this order had been given, the crab moved round to the bow of
the gun-boat, and grasping the cut-water with its forceps, reversed its engines and began to
back rapidly toward the British fleet, taking with it the captured vessel as a protection against
torpedoes while in transit.

The crab slowed up not far from one of the foremost of the British ships, and coming round
to the quarter of the gun-boat, the astonished captain of that vessel was informed, through
the speaking-tube, that if he would give his parole to keep out of this fight, he would be
allowed to proceed to his anchorage in Portsmouth harbour.  The parole was given, and the dynamite
gun-boat, after reporting to the flag-ship, steamed away to Portsmouth.

The situation now became one which was unparalleled in the history of naval warfare.  On the
side of the British, seven war-ships were disabled and drifting slowly to the south-east. 
For half an hour no advance had been made by the British fleet, for whenever one of the large
vessels had steamed ahead, such vessel had become the victim of a crab, and the Vice-Admiral
commanding the fleet had signalled not to advance until farther orders.

The crabs were also lying-to, each to the windward of, and not far from, one of the British
ships.  They had ceased to make any attacks, and were resting quietly under protection of the
enemy.  This, with the fact that the repeller still lay four miles away, without any apparent
intention of taking part in the battle, gave the situation its peculiar character.

The British Vice-Admiral did not intend to remain in this quiescent condition.  It was, of
course, useless to order forth his ironclads, simply to see them disabled and set adrift. 
There was another arm of the service which evidently could be used with better effect upon
this peculiar foe than could the great battle-ships.

But before doing anything else, he must provide for the safety of those of his vessels which
had been rendered helpless by the crabs, and some of which were now drifting dangerously near
to each other.  Despatches had been sent to Portsmouth for tugs, but it would not do to wait
until these arrived, and a sufficient number of ironclads were detailed to tow their injured
consorts into port.

When this order had been given, the Vice-Admiral immediately prepared to renew the fight, and
this time his efforts were to be directed entirely against the repeller.  It would be useless
to devote any further attention to the crabs, especially in their present positions. But if
the chief vessel of the Syndicate's fleet, with its spring armour and its terrible earthquake
bombs, could be destroyed, it was quite possible that those sea-parasites, the crabs, could
also be disposed of.

Every torpedo-boat was now ordered to the front, and in a long line, almost abreast of each
other, these swift vessels--the light-infantry of the sea--advanced upon the solitary and distant
foe.  If one torpedo could but reach her hull, the Vice-Admiral, in spite of seven disabled
ironclads and a captured gun-boat, might yet gaze proudly at his floating flag, even if his
own ship should be drifting broadside to the sea.

The line of torpedo-boats, slightly curving inward, had advanced about a mile, when Repeller
No. 11 awoke from her seeming sleep, and began to act.  The two great guns at her bow were
trained upward, so that a bomb discharged from them would fall into the sea a mile and a half
ahead. Slowly turning her bow from side to side, so that the guns would cover a range of nearly
half a circle, the instantaneous motor-bombs of the repeller were discharged, one every half
minute.

One of the most appalling characteristics of the motor-bombs was the silence which accompanied
their discharge and action.  No noise was heard, except the flash of sound occasioned by the
removal of the particles of the object aimed at, and the subsequent roar of wind or fall of water.

As each motor-bomb dropped into the channel, a dense cloud appeared high in the air, above
a roaring, seething cauldron, hollowed out of the waters and out of the very bottom of the
channel.  Into this chasm the cloud quickly came down, condensed into a vast body of water,
which fell, with the roar of a cyclone, into the dreadful abyss from which it had been torn,
before the hissing walls of the great hollow had half filled it with their sweeping surges.
The piled-up mass of the redundant water was still sending its maddened billows tossing and
writhing in every direction toward their normal level, when another bomb was discharged; another
surging abyss appeared, another roar of wind and water was heard, and another mountain of furious
billows uplifted itself in a storm of spray and foam, raging that it had found its place usurped.

Slowly turning, the repeller discharged bomb after bomb, building up out of the very sea itself
a barrier against its enemies.  Under these thundering cataracts, born in an instant, and coming
down all at once in a plunging storm; into these abysses, with walls of water and floors of
cleft and shivered rocks; through this wide belt of raging turmoil, thrown into new frenzy
after the discharge of every bomb,--no vessel, no torpedo, could pass.

The air driven off in every direction by tremendous and successive concussions came rushing
back in shrieking gales, which tore up the waves into blinding foam.  For miles in every direction
the sea swelled and upheaved into great peaked waves, the repeller rising upon these almost
high enough to look down into the awful chasms which her bombs were making.  A torpedo-boat
caught in one of the returning gales was hurled forward almost on her beam ends until she was
under the edge of one of the vast masses of descending water.  The flood which, from even the
outer limits of this falling-sea, poured upon and into the unlucky vessel nearly swamped her,
and when she was swept back by the rushing waves into less stormy waters, her officers and
crew leaped into their boats and deserted her.  By rare good-fortune their boats were kept
afloat in the turbulent sea until they reached the nearest torpedo-vessel.

Five minutes afterward a small but carefully aimed motor-bomb struck the nearly swamped vessel,
and with the roar of all her own torpedoes she passed into nothing.

The British Vice-Admiral had carefully watched the repeller through his glass, and he noticed
that simultaneously with the appearance of the cloud in the air produced by the action of the
motor-bombs there were two puffs of black smoke from the repeller.  These were signals to the
crabs to notify them that a motor-gun had been discharged, and thus to provide against accidents
in case a bomb should fail to act.  One puff signified that a bomb had been discharged to the
north; two, that it had gone eastward; and so on.  If, therefore, a crab should see a signal
of this kind, and perceive no signs of the action of a bomb, it would be careful not to approach
the repeller from the quarter indicated.  It is true that in case of the failure of a bomb
to act, another bomb would be dropped upon the same spot, but the instructions of the War Syndicate
provided that every possible precaution should be taken against accidents.

Of course the Vice-Admiral did not understand these signals, nor did he know that they were
signals, but he knew that they accompanied the discharge of a motor-gun.  Once he noticed that
there was a short cessation in the hitherto constant succession of water avalanches, and during
this lull he had seen two puffs from the repeller, and the destruction, at the same moment,
of the deserted torpedo-boat.  It was, therefore, plain enough to him that if a motor-bomb
could be placed so accurately upon one torpedo-boat, and with such terrible result, other bombs
could quite as easily be discharged upon the other torpedo-boats which formed the advanced
line of the fleet.  When the barrier of storm and cataract again began to stretch itself in
front of the repeller, he knew that not only was it impossible for the torpedo-boats to send
their missives through this raging turmoil, but that each of these vessels was itself in danger
of instantaneous destruction.

Unwilling, therefore, to expose his vessels to profitless danger, the Vice-Admiral ordered
the torpedo-boats to retire from the front, and the whole line of them proceeded to a point
north of the fleet, where they lay to.

When this had been done, the repeller ceased the discharge of bombs; but the sea was still
heaving and tossing after the storm, when a despatch-boat brought orders from the British Admiralty
to the flagship.  Communication between the British fleet and the shore, and consequently London,
had been constant, and all that had occurred had been quickly made known to the Admiralty and
the Government.  The orders now received by the Vice-Admiral were to the effect that it was
considered judicious to discontinue the conflict for the day, and that he and his whole fleet
should return to Portsmouth to receive further orders.

In issuing these commands the British Government was actuated simply by motives of humanity
and common sense.  The British fleet was thoroughly prepared for ordinary naval warfare, but
an enemy had inaugurated another kind of naval warfare, for which it was not prepared.  It
was, therefore, decided to withdraw the ships until they should be prepared for the new kind
of warfare.  To allow ironclad after ironclad to be disabled and set adrift, to subject every
ship in the fleet to the danger of instantaneous destruction, and all this without the possibility
of inflicting injury upon the enemy, would not be bravery; it would be stupidity.  It was surely
possible to devise a means for destroying the seven hostile ships now in British waters.  Until
action for this end could be taken, it was the part of wisdom for the British navy to confine
itself to the protection of British ports.

When the fleet began to move toward the Isle of Wight, the six crabs, which had been lying
quietly among and under the protection of their enemies, withdrew southward, and, making a
slight circuit, joined the repeller.

Each of the disabled ironclads was now in tow of a sister vessel, or of tugs, except the Llangaron.
This great ship had been disabled so early in the contest, and her broadside had presented
such a vast surface to the north-west wind, that she had drifted much farther to the south
than any other vessel.  Consequently, before the arrival of the tugs which had been sent for
to tow her into harbour, the Llangaron was well on her way across the channel.  A foggy night
came on, and the next morning she was ashore on the coast of France, with a mile of water between
her and dry land.  Fast-rooted in a great sand-bank, she lay week after week, with the storms
that came in from the Atlantic, and the storms that came in from the German Ocean, beating
upon her tall side of solid iron, with no more effect than if it had been a precipice of rock.
Against waves and winds she formed a massive breakwater, with a wide stretch of smooth sea
between her and the land.  There she lay, proof against all the artillery of Europe, and all
the artillery of the sea and the storm, until a fleet of small vessels had taken from her her
ponderous armament, her coal and stores, and she had been lightened enough to float upon a
high tide, and to follow three tugs to Portsmouth.

When night came on, Repeller No. 11 and the crabs dropped down with the tide, and lay to some
miles west of the scene of battle.  The fog shut them in fairly well, but, fearful that torpedoes
might be sent out against them, they showed no lights.  There was little danger, of collision
with passing merchantmen, for the English Channel, at present, was deserted by this class of
vessels.

The next morning the repeller, preceded by two crabs, bearing between them a submerged net
similar to that used at the Canadian port, appeared off the eastern end of the Isle of Wight.
The anchors of the net were dropped, and behind it the repeller took her place, and shortly
afterward she sent a flag-of-truce boat to Portsmouth harbour. This boat carried a note from
the American War Syndicate to the British Government.

In this note it was stated that it was now the intention of the Syndicate to utterly destroy,
by means of the instantaneous motor, a fortified post upon the British coast.  As this would
be done solely for the purpose of demonstrating the irresistible destructive power of the motor-bombs,
it was immaterial to the Syndicate what fortified post should be destroyed, provided it should
answer the requirements of the proposed demonstration.  Consequently the British Government
was offered the opportunity of naming the fortified place which should be destroyed.  If said
Government should decline to do this, or delay the selection for twenty-four hours, the Syndicate
would itself decide upon the place to be operated upon.

Every one in every branch of the British Government, and, in fact, nearly every thinking person
in the British islands, had been racking his brains, or her brains, that night, over the astounding
situation; and the note of the Syndicate only added to the perturbation of the Government.
There was a strong feeling in official circles that the insolent little enemy must be crushed,
if the whole British navy should have to rush upon it, and all sink together in a common grave.

But there were cooler and more prudent brains at the head of affairs; and these had already
decided that the contest between the old engines of war and the new ones was entirely one-sided.
The instincts of good government dictated to them that they should be extremely wary and circumspect
during the further continuance of this unexampled war. Therefore, when the note of the Syndicate
was considered, it was agreed that the time had come when good statesmanship and wise diplomacy
would be more valuable to the nation than torpedoes, armoured ships, or heavy guns.

There was not the slightest doubt that the country would disagree with the Government, but
on the latter lay the responsibility of the country's safety.  There was nothing, in the opinion
of the ablest naval officers, to prevent the Syndicate's fleet from coming up the Thames. 
Instantaneous motor-bombs could sweep away all forts and citadels, and explode and destroy
all torpedo defences, and London might lie under the guns of the repeller.

In consequence of this view of the state of affairs, an answer was sent to the Syndicate's
note, asking that further time be given for the consideration of the situation, and suggesting
that an exhibition of the power of the motor-bomb was not necessary, as sufficient proof of
this had been given in the destruction of the Canadian forts, the annihilation of the Craglevin,
and the extraordinary results of the discharge of said bombs on the preceding day.

