As evidence of the statement that it does not matter how rare an element may be it will come
into common use if it is found to be commonly useful, we may refer to radium. A good rich specimen
of radium ore, pitchblende, may contain as much, as one part in 4,000,000. Madame Curie, the
brilliant Polish Parisian, had to work for years before she could prove to the world that such
an element existed and for years afterwards before she could get the metal out. Yet now we
can all afford a bit of radium to light up our watch dials in the dark. The amount needed for
this is infinitesimal. If it were more it would scorch our skins, for radium is an element
in eruption. The atom throws off corpuscles at intervals as a Roman candle throws off blazing
balls. Some of these particles, the alpha rays, are atoms of another element, helium, charged
with positive electricity and are ejected with a velocity of 18,000 miles a second. Some of
them, the beta rays, are negative electrons, only about one seven-thousandth the size of the
others, but are ejected with almost the speed of light, 186,000 miles a second. If one of the
alpha projectiles strikes a slice of zinc sulfide it makes a splash of light big enough to
be seen with a microscope, so we can now follow the flight of a single atom. The luminous watch
dials consist of a coating of zinc sulfide under continual bombardment by the radium projectiles.
Sir William Crookes invented this radium light apparatus and called it a "spinthariscope,"
which is Greek for "spark-seer."

Evidently if radium is so wasteful of its substance it cannot last forever nor could it have
forever existed. The elements then ate not necessarily eternal and immutable, as used to be
supposed. They have a natural length of life; they are born and die and propagate, at least
some of them do. Radium, for instance, is the offspring of ionium, which is the great-great-grandson
of uranium, the heaviest of known elements. Putting this chemical genealogy into biblical language
we might say: Uranium lived 5,000,000,000 years and begot Uranium X1, which lived 24.6 days
and begot Uranium X2, which lived 69 seconds and begot Uranium 2, which lived 2,000,000 years
and begot Ionium, which lived 200,000 years and begot Radium, which lived 1850 years and begot
Niton, which lived 3.85 days and begot Radium A, which lived 3 minutes and begot Radium B,
which lived 26.8 minutes and begot Radium C, which lived 19.5 minutes and begot Radium D, which
lived 12 years and begot Radium E, which lived 5 days and begot Polonium, which lived 136 days
and begot Lead.

The figures I have given are the times when half the parent substance has gone over into the
next generation. It will be seen that the chemist is even more liberal in his allowance of
longevity than was Moses with the patriarchs. It appears from the above that half of the radium
in any given specimen will be transformed in about 2000 years. Half of what is left will disappear
in the next 2000 years, half of that in the next 2000 and so on. The reader can figure out
for himself when it will all be gone. He will then have the answer to the old Eleatic conundrum
of when Achilles will overtake the tortoise. But we may say that after 100,000 years there
would not be left any radium worth mentioning, or in other words practically all the radium
now in existence is younger than the human race. The lead that is found in uranium and has
presumably descended from uranium, behaves like other lead but is lighter. Its atomic weight
is only 206, while ordinary lead weighs 207. It appears then that the same chemical element
may have different atomic weights according to its ancestry, while on the other hand different
chemical elements may have the same atomic weight. This would have seemed shocking heresy to
the chemists of the last century, who prided themselves on the immutability of the elements
and did not take into consideration their past life or heredity. The study of these radioactive
elements has led to a new atomic theory. I suppose most of us in our youth used to imagine
the atom as a little round hard ball, but now it is conceived as a sort of solar system with
an electropositive nucleus acting as the sun and negative electrons revolving around it like
the planets. The number of free positive electrons in the nucleus varies from one in hydrogen
to 92 in uranium. This leaves room for 92 possible elements and of these all but six are more
or less certainly known and definitely placed in the scheme. The atom of uranium, weighing
238 times the atom of hydrogen, is the heaviest known and therefore the ultimate limit of the
elements, though it is possible that elements may be found beyond it just as the planet Neptune
was discovered outside the orbit of Uranus. Considering the position of uranium and its numerous
progeny as mentioned above, it is quite appropriate that this element should bear the name
of the father of all the gods.

In these radioactive elements we have come upon sources of energy such as was never dreamed
of in our philosophy. The most striking peculiarity of radium is that it is always a little
warmer than its surroundings, no matter how warm these may be. Slowly, spontaneously and continuously,
it decomposes and we know no way of hastening or of checking it. Whether it is cooled in liquefied
air or heated to its melting point the change goes on just the same. An ounce of radium salt
will give out enough heat in one hour to melt an ounce of ice and in the next hour will raise
this water to the boiling point, and so on again and again without cessation for years, a fire
without fuel, a realization of the philosopher's lamp that the alchemists sought in vain. The
total energy so emitted is millions of times greater than that produced by any chemical combination
such as the union of oxygen and hydrogen to form water. From the heavy white salt there is
continually rising a faint fire-mist like the will-o'-the-wisp over a swamp. This gas is known
as the emanation or niton, "the shining one." A pound of niton would give off energy at the
rate of 23,000 horsepower; fine stuff to run a steamer, one would think, but we must remember
that it does not last. By the sixth day the power would have fallen off by half. Besides, no
one would dare to serve as engineer, for the radiation will rot away the flesh of a living
man who comes near it, causing gnawing ulcers or curing them. It will not only break down the
complex and delicate molecules of organic matter but will attack the atom itself, changing,
it is believed, one element into another, again the fulfilment of a dream of the alchemists.
And its rays, unseen and unfelt by us, are yet strong enough to penetrate an armorplate and
photograph what is behind it.

But radium is not the most mysterious of the elements but the least so. It is giving out the
secret that the other elements have kept. It suggests to us that all the other elements in
proportion to their weight have concealed within them similar stores of energy. Astronomers
have long dazzled our imaginations by calculating the horsepower of the world, making us feel
cheap in talking about our steam engines and dynamos when a minutest fraction of the waste
dynamic energy of the solar system would make us all as rich as millionaires. But the heavenly
bodies are too big for us to utilize in this practical fashion.

And now the chemists have become as exasperating as the astronomers, for they give us a glimpse
of incalculable wealth in the meanest substance. For wealth is measured by the available energy
of the world, and if a few ounces of anything would drive an engine or manufacture nitrogenous
fertilizer from the air all our troubles would be over. Kipling in his sketch, "With the Night
Mail," and Wells in his novel, "The World Set Free," stretched their imaginations in trying
to tell us what it would mean to have command of this power, but they are a little hazy in
their descriptions of the machinery by which it is utilized. The atom is as much beyond our
reach as the moon. We cannot rob its vault of the treasure.

READING REFERENCES

The foregoing pages will not have achieved their aim unless their readers have become sufficiently
interested in the developments of industrial chemistry to desire to pursue the subject further
in some of its branches. Assuming such interest has been aroused, I am giving below a few references
to books and articles which may serve to set the reader upon the right track for additional
information. To follow the rapid progress of applied science it is necessary to read continuously
such periodicals as the Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry (New York), Metallurgical
and Chemical Engineering (New York), Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry (London),
Chemical Abstracts (published by the American Chemical Society, Easton, Pa.), and the various
journals devoted to special trades. The reader may need to be reminded that the United States
Government publishes for free distribution or at low price annual volumes or special reports
dealing with science and industry. Among these may be mentioned "Yearbook of the Department
of Agriculture"; "Mineral Resources of the United States," published by the United States Geological
Survey in two annual volumes, Vol. I on the metals and Vol. II on the non-metals; the "Annual
Report of the Smithsonian Institution," containing selected articles on pure and applied science;
the daily "Commerce Reports" and special bulletins of Department of Commerce. Write for lists
of publications of these departments.

The following books on industrial chemistry in general are recommended for reading and reference:
"The Chemistry of Commerce" and "Some Chemical Problems of To-Day" by Robert Kennedy Duncan
(Harpers, N.Y.), "Modern Chemistry and Its Wonders" by Martin (Van Nostrand), "Chemical Discovery
and Invention in the Twentieth Century" by Sir William A. Tilden (Dutton, N.Y.), "Discoveries
and Inventions of the Twentieth Century" by Edward Cressy (Dutton), "Industrial Chemistry"
by Allen Rogers (Van Nostrand).

"Everyman's Chemistry" by Ellwood Hendrick (Harpers, Modern Science Series) is written in a
lively style and assumes no previous knowledge of chemistry from the reader. The chapters on
cellulose, gums, sugars and oils are particularly interesting. "Chemistry of Familiar Things"
by S.S. Sadtler (Lippincott) is both comprehensive and comprehensible.

The following are intended for young readers but are not to be despised by their elders who
may wish to start in on an easy up-grade: "Chemistry of Common Things" (Allyn & Bacon, Boston)
is a popular high school text-book but differing from most text-books in being readable and
attractive. Its descriptions of industrial processes are brief but clear. The "Achievements
of Chemical Science" by James C. Philip (Macmillan) is a handy little book, easy reading for
pupils. "Introduction to the Study of Science" by W.P. Smith and E.G. Jewett (Macmillan) touches
upon chemical topics in a simple way.

On the history of commerce and the effect of inventions on society the following titles may
be suggested: "Outlines of Industrial History" by E. Cressy (Macmillan); "The Origin of Invention,"
a study of primitive industry, by O.T. Mason (Scribner); "The Romance of Commerce" by Gordon
Selbridge (Lane); "Industrial and Commercial Geography" or "Commerce and Industry" by J. Russell
Smith (Holt); "Handbook of Commercial Geography" by G.G. Chisholm (Longmans).

The newer theories of chemistry and the constitution of the atom are explained in "The Realities
of Modern Science" by John Mills (Macmillan), and "The Electron" by R.A. Millikan (University
of Chicago Press), but both require a knowledge of mathematics. The little book on "Matter
and Energy" by Frederick Soddy (Holt) is better adapted to the general reader. The most recent
text-book is the "Introduction to General Chemistry" by H.N. McCoy and E.M. Terry. (Chicago, 1919.)

CHAPTER II

The reader who may be interested in following up this subject will find references to all the
literature in the summary by Helen R. Hosmer, of the Research Laboratory of the General Electric
Company, in the Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, New York, for April, 1917.
Bucher's paper may be found in the same journal for March, and the issue for September contains
a full report of the action of U.S. Government and a comparison of the various processes. Send
fifteen cents to the U.S. Department of Commerce (or to the nearest custom house) for Bulletin
No. 52, Special Agents Series on "Utilization of Atmospheric Nitrogen" by T.H. Norton. The
Smithsonian Institution of Washington has issued a pamphlet on "Sources of Nitrogen Compounds
in the United States." In the 1913 report of the Smithsonian Institution there are two fine
articles on this subject: "The Manufacture of Nitrates from the Atmosphere" and "The Distribution
of Mankind," which discusses Sir William Crookes' prediction of the exhaustion of wheat land.
The D. Van Nostrand Co., New York, publishes a monograph on "Fixation of Atmospheric Nitrogen"
by J. Knox, also "TNT and Other Nitrotoluenes" by G.C. Smith. The American Cyanamid Company,
New York, gives out some attractive literature on their process.

"American Munitions 1917-1918," the report of Benedict Crowell, Director of Munitions, to the
Secretary of War, gives a fully illustrated account of the manufacture of arms, explosives
and toxic gases. Our war experience in the "Oxidation of Ammonia" is told by C.L. Parsons in
Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, June, 1919, and various other articles on
the government munition work appeared in the same journal in the first half of 1919. "The Muscle
Shoals Nitrate Plant" in Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering, January, 1919.

CHAPTER III

The Department of Agriculture or your congressman will send you literature on the production
and use of fertilizers. From your state agricultural experiment station you can procure information
as to local needs and products. Consult the articles on potash salts and phosphate rock in
the latest volume of "Mineral Resources of the United States," Part II Non-Metals (published
free by the U.S. Geological Survey). Also consult the latest Yearbook of the Department of
Agriculture. For self-instruction, problems and experiments get "Extension Course in Soils,"
Bulletin No. 355, U.S. Dept. of Agric. A list of all government publications on "Soil and Fertilizers"
is sent free by Superintendent of Documents, Washington. The Journal of Industrial and Engineering
Chemistry for July, 1917, publishes an article by W.C. Ebaugh on "Potash and a World Emergency,"
and various articles on American sources of potash appeared in the same Journal October, 1918,
and February, 1918. Bulletin 102, Part 2, of the United States National Museum contains an
interpretation of the fertilizer situation in 1917 by J.E. Poque. On new potash deposits in
Alsace and elsewhere see Scientific American Supplement, September 14, 1918.

CHAPTER IV

Send ten cents to the Department of Commerce, Washington, for "Dyestuffs for American Textile
and Other Industries," by Thomas H. Norton, Special Agents' Series, No. 96. A more technical
bulletin by the same author is "Artificial Dyestuffs Used in the United States," Special Agents'
Series, No. 121, thirty cents. "Dyestuff Situation in U.S.," Special Agents' Series, No. 111,
five cents. "Coal-Tar Products," by H.G. Porter, Technical Paper 89, Bureau of Mines, Department
of the Interior, five cents. "Wealth in Waste," by Waldemar Kaempfert, McClure's, April, 1917.
"The Evolution of Artificial Dyestuffs," by Thomas H. Norton, Scientific American, July 21,
1917. "Germany's Commercial Preparedness for Peace," by James Armstrong, Scientific American,
January 29, 1916. "The Conquest of Commerce" and "American Made," by Edwin E. Slosson in The
Independent of September 6 and October 11, 1915. The H. Koppers Company, Pittsburgh, give out
an illustrated pamphlet on their "By-Product Coke and Gas Ovens." The addresses delivered during
the war on "The Aniline Color, Dyestuff and Chemical Conditions," by I.F. Stone, president
of the National Aniline and Chemical Company, have been collected in a volume by the author.
For "Dyestuffs as Medicinal Agents" by G. Heyl, see Color Trade Journal, vol. 4, p. 73, 1919.
"The Chemistry of Synthetic Drugs" by Percy May, and "Color in Relation to Chemical Constitution"
by E.R. Watson are published in Longmans' "Monographs on Industrial Chemistry." "Enemy Property
in the United States" by A. Mitchell Palmer in Saturday Evening Post, July 19, 1919, tells
of how Germany monopolized chemical industry. "The Carbonization of Coal" by V.B. Lewis (Van
Nostrand, 1912). "Research in the Tar Dye Industry" by B.C. Hesse in Journal of Industrial
and Engineering Chemistry, September, 1916.

Kekulé tells how he discovered the constitution of benzene in the Berichte der Deutschen chemischen
Gesellschaft, V. XXIII, I, p. 1306. I have quoted it with some other instances of dream discoveries
in The Independent of Jan. 26, 1918. Even this innocent scientific vision has not escaped the
foul touch of the Freudians. Dr. Alfred Robitsek in "Symbolisches Denken in der chemischen
Forschung," Imago, V. I, p. 83, has deduced from it that Kekulé was morally guilty of the crime
of OEdipus as well as minor misdemeanors.

CHAPTER V

Read up on the methods of extracting perfumes from flowers in any encyclopedia or in Duncan's
"Chemistry of Commerce" or Tilden's "Chemical Discovery in the Twentieth Century" or Rogers'
"Industrial Chemistry."

The pamphlet containing a synopsis of the lectures by the late Alois von Isakovics on "Synthetic
Perfumes and Flavors," published by the Synfleur Scientific Laboratories, Monticello, New York,
is immensely interesting. Van Dyk & Co., New York, issue a pamphlet on the composition of oil
of rose. Gildemeister's "The Volatile Oils" is excellent on the history of the subject. Walter's
"Manual for the Essence Industry" (Wiley) gives methods and recipes. Parry's "Chemistry of
Essential Oils and Artificial Perfumes," 1918 edition. "Chemistry and Odoriferous Bodies Since
1914" by G. Satie in Chemie et Industrie, vol. II, p. 271, 393. "Odor and Chemical Constitution,"
Chemical Abstracts, 1917, p. 3171 and Journal of Society for Chemical Industry, v. 36, p. 942.

CHAPTER VI

The bulletin on "By-Products of the Lumber Industry" by H.K. Benson (published by Department
of Commerce, Washington, 10 cents) contains a description of paper-making and wood distillation.
There is a good article on cellulose products by H.S. Mork in Journal of the Franklin Institute,
September, 1917, and in Paper, September 26, 1917. The Government Forest Products Laboratory
at Madison, Wisconsin, publishes technical papers on distillation of wood, etc. The Forest
Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture is the chief source of information on forestry.
The standard authority is Cross and Bevans' "Cellulose." For the acetates see the eighth volume
of Worden's "Technology of the Cellulose Esters."

CHAPTER VII

The speeches made when Hyatt was awarded the Perkin medal by the American Chemical Society
for the discovery of celluloid may be found in the Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry
for 1914, p. 225. In 1916 Baekeland received the same medal, and the proceedings are reported
in the same Journal, v. 35, p. 285.

A comprehensive technical paper with bibliography on "Synthetic Resins" by L.V. Redman appeared
in the Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, January, 1914. The controversy over
patent rights may be followed in the same Journal, v. 8 (1915), p. 1171, and v. 9 (1916), p.
207. The "Effects of Heat on Celluloid" have been examined by the Bureau of Standards, Washington
(Technological Paper No. 98), abstract in Scientific American Supplement, June 29, 1918.

For casein see Tague's article in Rogers' "Industrial Chemistry" (Van Nostrand). See also Worden's
"Nitrocellulose Industry" and "Technology of the Cellulose Esters" (Van Nostrand); Hodgson's
"Celluloid" and Cross and Bevan's "Cellulose."

For references to recent research and new patent specifications on artificial plastics, resins,
rubber, leather, wood, etc., see the current numbers of Chemical Abstracts (Easton, Pa.) and
such journals as the India Rubber Journal, Paper, Textile World, Leather World and Journal
of American Leather Chemical Association.

The General Bakelite Company, New York, the Redmanol Products Company, Chicago, the Condensite
Company, Bloomfield, N.J., the Arlington Company, New York (handling pyralin), give out advertising
literature regarding their respective products.

CHAPTER VIII

Sir William Tilden's "Chemical Discovery and Invention in the Twentieth Century" (E.P. Dutton
& Co.) contains a readable chapter on rubber with references to his own discovery. The "Wonder
Book of Rubber," issued by the B.F. Goodrich Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio, gives an interesting
account of their industry. Iles: "Leading American Inventors" (Henry Holt & Co.) contains a
life of Goodyear, the discoverer of vulcanization. Potts: "Chemistry of the Rubber Industry,
1912." The Rubber Industry: Report of the International Rubber Congress, 1914. Pond: "Review
of Pioneer Work in Rubber Synthesis" in Journal of the American Chemical Society, 1914. Bang:
"Synthetic Rubber" in Metallurgical and Chemical Engineering, May 1, 1917. Castellan: "L'Industrie
caoutchoucière," doctor's thesis, University of Paris, 1915. The India Rubber World, New York,
all numbers, especially "What I Saw in the Philippines," by the Editor, 1917. Pearson: "Production
of Guayule Rubber," Commerce Reports, 1918, and India Rubber World, 1919. "Historical Sketch
of Chemistry of Rubber" by S.C. Bradford in Science Progress, v. II, p. 1.

CHAPTER IX

"The Cane Sugar Industry" (Bulletin No. 53, Miscellaneous Series, Department of Commerce, 50
cents) gives agricultural and manufacturing costs in Hawaii, Porto Rico, Louisiana and Cuba.

"Sugar and Its Value as Food," by Mary Hinman Abel. (Farmer's Bulletin No. 535, Department
of Agriculture, free.)

"Production of Sugar in the United States and Foreign Countries," by Perry Elliott. (Department
of Agriculture, 10 cents.)

"Conditions in the Sugar Market January to October, 1917," a pamphlet published by the American
Sugar Refining Company, 117 Wall Street, New York, gives an admirable survey of the present
situation as seen by the refiners.

"Cuban Cane Sugar," by Robert Wiles, 1916 (Indianapolis: Bobbs-Merrill Co., 75 cents), an attractive
little book in simple language.

"The World's Cane Sugar Industry, Past and Present," by H.C.P. Geering.

"The Story of Sugar," by Prof. G.T. Surface of Yale (Appleton, 1910). A very interesting and
reliable book.

The "Digestibility of Glucose" is discussed in Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry,
August, 1917. "Utilization of Beet Molasses" in Metallurgical and Chemical Engineering, April
5, 1917.

CHAPTER X

"Maize," by Edward Alber (Bulletin of the Pan-American Union, January, 1915).

