"Now, tyrant! behold the completion of woe fulfilled on thy impious and devoted head!  The
blood of Alfonso cried to heaven for vengeance; and heaven has permitted its altar to be polluted
by assassination, that thou mightest shed thy own blood at the foot of that Prince's sepulchre!"

"Cruel man!" cried Matilda, "to aggravate the woes of a parent; may heaven bless my father,
and forgive him as I do!  My Lord, my gracious Sire, dost thou forgive thy child?  Indeed,
I came not hither to meet Theodore.  I found him praying at this tomb, whither my mother sent
me to intercede for thee, for her--dearest father, bless your child, and say you forgive her."

"Forgive thee!  Murderous monster!" cried Manfred, "can assassins forgive?  I took thee for
Isabella; but heaven directed my bloody hand to the heart of my child.  Oh, Matilda!--I cannot
utter it-- canst thou forgive the blindness of my rage?"

"I can, I do; and may heaven confirm it!" said Matilda; "but while I have life to ask it--oh!
my mother! what will she feel?  Will you comfort her, my Lord?  Will you not put her away?
Indeed she loves you!  Oh, I am faint! bear me to the castle.  Can I live to have her close
my eyes?"

Theodore and the monks besought her earnestly to suffer herself to be borne into the convent;
but her instances were so pressing to be carried to the castle, that placing her on a litter,
they conveyed her thither as she requested.  Theodore, supporting her head with his arm, and
hanging over her in an agony of despairing love, still endeavoured to inspire her with hopes
of life.  Jerome, on the other side, comforted her with discourses of heaven, and holding a
crucifix before her, which she bathed with innocent tears, prepared her for her passage to
immortality.  Manfred, plunged in the deepest affliction, followed the litter in despair.

Ere they reached the castle, Hippolita, informed of the dreadful catastrophe, had flown to
meet her murdered child; but when she saw the afflicted procession, the mightiness of her grief
deprived her of her senses, and she fell lifeless to the earth in a swoon. Isabella and Frederic,
who attended her, were overwhelmed in almost equal sorrow.  Matilda alone seemed insensible
to her own situation:  every thought was lost in tenderness for her mother.

Ordering the litter to stop, as soon as Hippolita was brought to herself, she asked for her
father.  He approached, unable to speak. Matilda, seizing his hand and her mother's, locked
them in her own, and then clasped them to her heart.  Manfred could not support this act of
pathetic piety.  He dashed himself on the ground, and cursed the day he was born.  Isabella,
apprehensive that these struggles of passion were more than Matilda could support, took upon
herself to order Manfred to be borne to his apartment, while she caused Matilda to be conveyed
to the nearest chamber.  Hippolita, scarce more alive than her daughter, was regardless of
everything but her; but when the tender Isabella's care would have likewise removed her, while
the surgeons examined Matilda's wound, she cried,

"Remove me! never, never!  I lived but in her, and will expire with her."

Matilda raised her eyes at her mother's voice, but closed them again without speaking.  Her
sinking pulse and the damp coldness of her hand soon dispelled all hopes of recovery.  Theodore
followed the surgeons into the outer chamber, and heard them pronounce the fatal sentence with
a transport equal to frenzy.

"Since she cannot live mine," cried he, "at least she shall be mine in death!  Father!  Jerome!
will you not join our hands?" cried he to the Friar, who, with the Marquis, had accompanied
the surgeons.

"What means thy distracted rashness?" said Jerome.  "Is this an hour for marriage?"

"It is, it is," cried Theodore.  "Alas! there is no other!"

"Young man, thou art too unadvised," said Frederic.  "Dost thou think we are to listen to thy
fond transports in this hour of fate? What pretensions hast thou to the Princess?"

"Those of a Prince," said Theodore; "of the sovereign of Otranto. This reverend man, my father,
has informed me who I am."

"Thou ravest," said the Marquis.  "There is no Prince of Otranto but myself, now Manfred, by
murder, by sacrilegious murder, has forfeited all pretensions."

"My Lord," said Jerome, assuming an air of command, "he tells you true.  It was not my purpose
the secret should have been divulged so soon, but fate presses onward to its work.  What his
hot-headed passion has revealed, my tongue confirms.  Know, Prince, that when Alfonso set sail
for the Holy Land--"

"Is this a season for explanations?" cried Theodore.  "Father, come and unite me to the Princess;
she shall be mine!  In every other thing I will dutifully obey you.  My life! my adored Matilda!"
continued Theodore, rushing back into the inner chamber, "will you not be mine?  Will you not
bless your--"

Isabella made signs to him to be silent, apprehending the Princess was near her end.

"What, is she dead?" cried Theodore; "is it possible!"

The violence of his exclamations brought Matilda to herself. Lifting up her eyes, she looked
round for her mother.

"Life of my soul, I am here!" cried Hippolita; "think not I will quit thee!"

"Oh! you are too good," said Matilda.  "But weep not for me, my mother!  I am going where sorrow
never dwells--Isabella, thou hast loved me; wouldst thou not supply my fondness to this dear,
dear woman?  Indeed I am faint!"

"Oh! my child! my child!" said Hippolita in a flood of tears, "can I not withhold thee a moment?"

"It will not be," said Matilda; "commend me to heaven--Where is my father? forgive him, dearest
mother--forgive him my death; it was an error.  Oh!  I had forgotten--dearest mother, I vowed
never to see Theodore more--perhaps that has drawn down this calamity--but it was not intentional--can
you pardon me?"

"Oh! wound not my agonising soul!" said Hippolita; "thou never couldst offend me--Alas! she
faints! help! help!"

"I would say something more," said Matilda, struggling, "but it cannot be--Isabella--Theodore--for
my sake--Oh!--" she expired.

Isabella and her women tore Hippolita from the corse; but Theodore threatened destruction to
all who attempted to remove him from it. He printed a thousand kisses on her clay-cold hands,
and uttered every expression that despairing love could dictate.

Isabella, in the meantime, was accompanying the afflicted Hippolita to her apartment; but,
in the middle of the court, they were met by Manfred, who, distracted with his own thoughts,
and anxious once more to behold his daughter, was advancing to the chamber where she lay. 
As the moon was now at its height, he read in the countenances of this unhappy company the
event he dreaded.

"What! is she dead?" cried he in wild confusion.  A clap of thunder at that instant shook the
castle to its foundations; the earth rocked, and the clank of more than mortal armour was heard
behind. Frederic and Jerome thought the last day was at hand.  The latter, forcing Theodore
along with them, rushed into the court.  The moment Theodore appeared, the walls of the castle
behind Manfred were thrown down with a mighty force, and the form of Alfonso, dilated to an
immense magnitude, appeared in the centre of the ruins.

"Behold in Theodore the true heir of Alfonso!" said the vision: And having pronounced those
words, accompanied by a clap of thunder, it ascended solemnly towards heaven, where the clouds
parting asunder, the form of St. Nicholas was seen, and receiving Alfonso's shade, they were
soon wrapt from mortal eyes in a blaze of glory.

The beholders fell prostrate on their faces, acknowledging the divine will.  The first that
broke silence was Hippolita.

"My Lord," said she to the desponding Manfred, "behold the vanity of human greatness!  Conrad
is gone!  Matilda is no more!  In Theodore we view the true Prince of Otranto.  By what miracle
he is so I know not--suffice it to us, our doom is pronounced! shall we not, can we but dedicate
the few deplorable hours we have to live, in deprecating the further wrath of heaven? heaven
ejects us-- whither can we fly, but to yon holy cells that yet offer us a retreat."

"Thou guiltless but unhappy woman! unhappy by my crimes!" replied Manfred, "my heart at last
is open to thy devout admonitions.  Oh! could--but it cannot be--ye are lost in wonder--let
me at last do justice on myself!  To heap shame on my own head is all the satisfaction I have
left to offer to offended heaven.  My story has drawn down these judgments:  Let my confession
atone--but, ah! what can atone for usurpation and a murdered child? a child murdered in a consecrated
place?  List, sirs, and may this bloody record be a warning to future tyrants!"

"Alfonso, ye all know, died in the Holy Land--ye would interrupt me; ye would say he came not
fairly to his end--it is most true-- why else this bitter cup which Manfred must drink to the
dregs. Ricardo, my grandfather, was his chamberlain--I would draw a veil over my ancestor's
crimes--but it is in vain!  Alfonso died by poison.  A fictitious will declared Ricardo his
heir.  His crimes pursued him--yet he lost no Conrad, no Matilda!  I pay the price of usurpation
for all!  A storm overtook him.  Haunted by his guilt he vowed to St. Nicholas to found a church
and two convents, if he lived to reach Otranto.  I have done--the woes of these three days
speak the rest.  How this young man can be Alfonso's heir I know not--yet I do not doubt it.
His are these dominions; I resign them--yet I knew not Alfonso had an heir--I question not
the will of heaven--poverty and prayer must fill up the woeful space, until Manfred shall be
summoned to Ricardo."

"What remains is my part to declare," said Jerome.  "When Alfonso set sail for the Holy Land
he was driven by a storm to the coast of Sicily.  The other vessel, which bore Ricardo and
his train, as your Lordship must have heard, was separated from him."

"It is most true," said Manfred; "and the title you give me is more than an outcast can claim--well!
be it so--proceed."

Jerome blushed, and continued.  "For three months Lord Alfonso was wind-bound in Sicily.  There
he became enamoured of a fair virgin named Victoria.  He was too pious to tempt her to forbidden
pleasures.  They were married.  Yet deeming this amour incongruous with the holy vow of arms
by which he was bound, he determined to conceal their nuptials until his return from the Crusade,
when he purposed to seek and acknowledge her for his lawful wife.  He left her pregnant.  During
his absence she was delivered of a daughter. But scarce had she felt a mother's pangs ere she
heard the fatal rumour of her Lord's death, and the succession of Ricardo.  What could a friendless,
helpless woman do?  Would her testimony avail?- -yet, my lord, I have an authentic writing--"

"It needs not," said Manfred; "the horrors of these days, the vision we have but now seen,
all corroborate thy evidence beyond a thousand parchments.  Matilda's death and my expulsion--"

"Be composed, my Lord," said Hippolita; "this holy man did not mean to recall your griefs."
Jerome proceeded.

"I shall not dwell on what is needless.  The daughter of which Victoria was delivered, was
at her maturity bestowed in marriage on me.  Victoria died; and the secret remained locked
in my breast. Theodore's narrative has told the rest."

The Friar ceased.  The disconsolate company retired to the remaining part of the castle.  In
the morning Manfred signed his abdication of the principality, with the approbation of Hippolita,
and each took on them the habit of religion in the neighbouring convents.  Frederic offered
his daughter to the new Prince, which Hippolita's tenderness for Isabella concurred to promote.
But Theodore's grief was too fresh to admit the thought of another love; and it was not until
after frequent discourses with Isabella of his dear Matilda, that he was persuaded he could
know no happiness but in the society of one with whom he could for ever indulge the melancholy
that had taken possession of his soul.