Then again a political combat with tongues and arguments seldom conveys the impression that
through it irrevocable Fate gives its decision to the same extent that a contest by swords
and volleys does. Political campaigns are a competition of parties and only the immediate partisans
who direct and carry on the fight, grow very hot. The great majority of a party is not fanatical,
and a citizen who has witnessed many elections, some for and some against him, comes instinctively
to feel that whoever wins the country is safe. He discounts the cries of alarm and the abuse
by opponents. And only in his most expansive moments does he flatter himself that his party
really represents the State. The Republican Party, through which President Roosevelt had to
work, was by no means an ideal instrument. He believed in Republicanism, with a faith only
less devoted than that with which he embraced the fundamental duties and spiritual facts of
life. But the Republicanism which he revered must be interpreted by himself; and the party
which bore the name Republican was split into several sections, mutually discordant if not
actually hostile. It seems no exaggeration to say that the underlying motive of the majority
of the Republican Party during Roosevelt's Presidency was to uphold Privilege, just as much
as the underlying purpose of the great Whig Party in England in the eighteenth century was
to uphold Aristocracy. Roosevelt's purpose, on the contrary, was to clip the arrogance of Privilege
based on Plutocracy. To achieve this he must, in some measure, compel the party of Plutocracy
to help him. I speak, so far as possible, as a historian,--and not as a partisan,--who recognizes
that the rise of a Plutocracy was the inevitable result of the amassing, during a generation,
of unprecedented wealth, and that, in a Republic governed by parties, the all-dominant Plutocracy
would naturally see to it that the all dominant party which governed the country and made its
laws should be plutocratic. If the spheres in which Plutocracy made most of its money had been
Democratic, then the Democratic Party would have served the Plutocracy. As it was, in the practical
relation between the parties, the Democrats got their share of the spoils, and the methods
of a Democratic Boss, like Senator Gorman, did not differ from those of a Republican Boss,
like Senator Aldrich. Roosevelt relied implicitly on justice and common sense. He held, as
firmly as Lincoln had held, to the inherent rightmindedness of the "plain people." And however
fierce and formidable the opposition to his policies might be in Congress, he trusted that,
if he could make clear to the average voters of the country what he was aiming at, they would
support him. And they did support him. Time after time, when the Interests appeared to be on
the point of crushing his reform, the people rose and coerced Congress into adopting it. I
would not imply that Roosevelt assumed an autocratic manner in this warfare. He left no doubt
of his intention, still less could he disguise the fact of his tremendous personal vigor; but
rather than threaten he tried to persuade; he was good-natured to everybody, he explained the
reasonableness of his measures; and only when the satraps of Plutocracy so far lost their discretion
as to threaten him, did he bluntly challenge them to do their worst.

The Interests had undeniably reached such proportions that unless they were chastened and controlled,
the freedom of the Republic could not survive. And yet, in justice, we must recall that when
they grew up in the day of small things, they were beneficial; their founders had no idea of
their becoming a menace to the Nation. The man who built the first cotton-mill in his section,
or started the first iron-furnace, or laid the first stretch of railroad, was rightly hailed
as a benefactor; and he could not foresee that the time would come when his mill, entering
into a business combination with a hundred other mills in different parts of the country, would
be merged. in a monopoly to strangle competition in cotton manufacture. Likewise, the first
stretch of railroad joined another, and this a third, and so on, until there had arisen a vast
railway system under a single management from New York to San Francisco. Now, while these colossal
monopolies had grown up so naturally, responding to the wonderful expansion of the population
they served, the laws and regulations which applied to them, having been framed in the days
when they were young and small and harmless, still obtained. The clothes made for the little
boy would not do for the giant man. I have heard a lawyer complain that statutes, which barely
sufficed when travel and transportation went by stage-coach, were stretched to fit the needs
of the public in its relation with transcontinental railroads. This is an exaggeration, no
doubt, but it points towards truth. The Big Interests were so swollen that they went ahead
on their own affairs and paid little attention to the community on which they were battening.
They saw to it that if any laws concerning them had to be made by the State Legislatures or
by Congress, their agents in those bodies should make them. A certain Mr. Vanderbilt, the president
of one of the largest railroad systems in America, a person whose other gems of wit and wisdom
have not been recorded, achieved such immortality, as it is, by remarking, "The public be damned."
Probably the president and directors of a score of other monopolies would have heartily echoed
that impolitic and petulant display of arrogance. Impolitic the exclamation was, because the
American public had already begun to feel that the Big Interests were putting its freedom in
jeopardy, and it was beginning to call for laws which should reduce the power of those interests.

As early as 1887 the Interstate Commerce Act was passed, the earliest considerable attempt
to regulate rates and traffic. Then followed anti-trust laws which aimed at the suppression
of "pools," in which many large producers or manufacturers combined to sell their staples at
a uniform price, a practice which inevitably set up monopolies. The "Trusts" were to these
what the elephant is to a colt. When the United States Steel Corporation was formed by uniting
eleven large steel plants, with an aggregate capital of $11100,000,000, the American people
had an inkling of the magnitude to which Trusts might swell. In like fashion when the Northern
Pacific and the Great Northern Railroads found a legal impediment to their being run by one
management, they got round the law by organizing the Northern Securities Company, which was
to hold the stocks and bonds of both railroads. And so of many other important industrial and
transportation mergers. The most powerful financial promoters of the country, led by Mr. J.
Pierpont Morgan, were busy setting up these combinations on a large scale and the keenest corporation
lawyers spent their energy and wits in framing charters which obeyed the letter of the laws,
but wholly denied their spirit.

President Roosevelt worked openly, with a definite purpose. First, he would enforce every law
on the statute book, without exception in favor of any individual or company; next, he suggested
to Congress the need of new legislation to resist further encroachments by capitalists in the
fields where they had already been checked; finally, he pointed out that Congress must begin
at once to protect the national resources which had been allowed to go to waste, or to be seized
and exploited by private concerns.

I do not intend to take up in chronological sequence, or in detail, Roosevelt's battles to
secure proper legislation. To do so would require the discussion of legal and constitutional
questions, which would scarcely fit a sketch like the present. The main things to know are
the general nature of his reforms and his own attitude in conducting the fight. He aimed directly
at stopping abuses which gave a privileged few undue advantage in amassing and distributing
wealth. The practical result of the laws was to spread justice, and equality throughout the
country and to restore thereby the true spirit of Democracy on which the Founders created the
Republic. He fought fairly, but warily, never letting slip a point that would tell against
his opponents, who, it must be said, did not always attack him honorably.

At first, they regarded the President as a headstrong young man-- he was the youngest who had
ever sat in the Presidential chair-- who wished to have his own way in order to show the country
that he was its leader. They did not see that ideals which dated back to his childhood were
really shaping his acts. He had seen law in the making out West; he had seen law, and especially
corporation law, in the making when he was in the New York Assembly and Governor of New York;
he knew the devices by which the Interests caused laws to be made and passed for their special
benefit, or evaded inconvenient laws. But he suffered no disillusion as to the ideal of Law,
the embodiment and organ of Justice. Legal quibbles, behind which designing and wicked men
dodged, nauseated him, and he made no pretense of wishing to uphold them.

The champions of the Interests found out before long that the young President was neither headstrong
nor a mere creature of impulse, but that he followed a thoroughly rational system of principles;
and so they had to abandon the notion that the next gust of impulse might blow him over to
their side. They must take him as he was, and make the best of it. Now, I must repeat, that,
for these gentlemen, the very idea that anybody could propose to run the American Government,
or to organize American Society, on any other standard than theirs, seemed to them preposterous.
The Bourbon nobles in France and in Italy were not more amazed. when the Revolutionists proposed
to sweep them away than were the American Plutocrats of the Rooseveltian era when he promoted
laws to regulate them. The Bourbon thinks the earth will perish unless Bourbonism governs it;
the American Plutocrat thought that America existed simply to enrich him. He clung to his rights
and privileges with the tenacity of a drowning man clinging to a plank, and he deceived himself
into thinking that, in desperately trying to save himself and his order, he was saving Society.

Most tragic of all, to one who regards history as the revelation of the unfolding of the moral
nature of mankind, was the fact that these men had not the slightest idea that they were living
in a moral world, or that a new influx of moral inspiration had begun to permeate Society in
its politics, its business, and its daily conduct. The great ship Privilege, on which they
had voyaged with pomp and satisfaction, was going down and they knew it not.

CHAPTER XIII. THE TWO ROOSEVELTS

I do not wish to paint Roosevelt in one light only, and that the most favorable. Had no other
been shed upon him, his Administration would have been too bland for human belief, and life
for him would have palled. For his inexhaustible energy hungered for action. As soon as his
judgment convinced him that a thing ought to be done he set about doing it. Recently, I asked
one of the most perspicacious members of his Cabinet, "What do you consider Theodore's dominant
trait" He thought for a while, and then replied, "Combativeness." No doubt the public also,
at least while Roosevelt was in office, thought of him first as a fighter. The idea that he
was truculent or pugnacious, that he went about with a chip on his shoulder, that he loved
fighting for the sake of fighting, was, however, a mistake. During the eight years he was President
he kept the United States out of war; not only that, he settled long-standing causes of irritation,
such as the dispute over the Alaskan Boundary, which might, under provocation, have led to
war. Even more than this, without striking a blow, he repelled the persistent attempts of the
German Emperor to gain a foothold on this continent; he repelled those snakelike attacks and
forced the Imperial Bully, not merely to retreat ignominiously but to arbitrate. And in foreign
affairs, Roosevelt shone as a peacemaker. He succeeded in persuading the Russian Czar to come
to terms with the Mikado of Japan. And soon after, when the German Emperor threatened to make
war on France, a letter from Roosevelt to him caused William to reconsider his brutal plan,
and to submit the Moroccan dispute to a conference of the Powers at Algeciras.

He himself summed up this part of his philosophy in a phrase which has become a proverb: "Speak
softly, but carry a big stick." More than once in his later years he quoted this to me, adding,
that it was precisely because this or that Power knew that he carried a big stick, that he
was enabled to speak softly with effect.

No man of our time better deserved the Nobel Peace Prize than did he. The fallacy that Roosevelt,
like the proverbial Irishman at Donnybrook Fair, had rather fight than eat, spread through
the country, and indeed throughout the world, and had its influence in determining whether
men voted for him or not. His enemies used it as proof that he was not a safe President, but
they took means much more malignant than this to discredit and destroy him. When the Big Interests
discovered that they could not silence him, they circulated stories of all kinds that would
have rendered even the archangel Gabriel suspect to some worthy dupes.

They threw doubts, for instance, on his sanity, and one heard that the "Wall Street magnates"
employed the best alienists in the country to analyze everything the President did and said,
in the hope of accumulating evidence to show that he was too unbalanced to be President. Not
content with stealing away his reputation for mental competence, they shot into the dark the
gravest charges against his honor. A single story, still believed, as I know, by persons of
eminence in their professions, will illustrate this. When one of the great contests between
the President and the Interests was on, he remembered that one of their representatives in
New York had damaging, confidential letters from him. Hearing that these might be produced,
Roosevelt telephoned one of his trusty agents to break open the desk of the Captain of Industry
where they were kept, and to bring them to the White House, before ten o'clock the following
morning. This was done. To believe that the President of the United States would engage in
a vulgar robbery of the jimmy and black-mask sort indicates a degree of credulity which even
the alienists could hardly have expected to encounter outside of their asylums. It suggests
also, that Baron Munchausen, like the Wandering Jew Ahasuerus, has never died. Does any one
suppose that the person whose desk was rifled would have kept quiet? Or that, if the Interests
had had even reasonably sure evidence of the President's guilt, they would not have published
it? To set spies and detectives upon him with orders to trail him night and day was, according
to rumor, an obvious expedient for his enemies to employ.

I repeat these stories, not because I believe them, but because many persons did, and such
gossip, like the cruel slanders whispered against President Cleveland years before, gained
some credence. Roosevelt was so natural, so unguarded, in his speech and ways, that he laid
himself open to calumny. The delight he took in establishing the Ananias Club, and the rapidity
with which he found new members for it, seemed to justify strong doubts as to his temper and
taste, if not as to his judgment. The vehemence of his public speaking, which was caused in
part by a physical difficulty of utterance--the sequel of his early asthmatic trouble--and
in part by his extraordinary vigor, created among some of the hearers who did not know him
the impression that he must be a hard drinker, or that he drank to stimulate his eloquence.
After he retired from office, his enemies, in order to undermine his further political influence,
sowed the falsehood that he was a drunkard. I do not recall that they ever suggested that he
used his office for his private profit--there are some things too absurd for even malice to
suggest--but he had reason enough many times to calm himself by reflecting that his Uncle Jimmy
Bulloch, the best of men, believed just such lies, and the most atrocious insinuations, against
Mr. Gladstone.

Of course, nearly all public men have to undergo similar virulent defamation. I have heard
a well-known publicist, a lawyer of ability, argue that both George Washington and Abraham
Lincoln did not escape from what seems now incredible abuse, and that they were, nevertheless,
the noblest of men and peerless patriots; and then he went on to argue that President Woodrow
Wilson has been the target of similar malignity, and to leave you to conclude that consequently
Wilson is in the same class with Washington and Lincoln. If he had put his thesis in a different
form, the publicist might have seen himself, as his hearers did, the absurdity of it. Suppose
he had said, for instance: "In spite of the fact that Washington and Lincoln each kept a cow,
they were both peerless patriots, therefore, as President Wilson keeps a cow, he must be a
peerless patriot." One fears that logic is somewhat neglected even in the training of lawyers
in our day.

The commonest charge against Roosevelt, and the one which seemed, on the surface at least,
to be most plausible, was that he was devoured by insatiable ambition. The critical remarked
that wherever he went he was always the central figure. The truth is, that he could no more
help being the central figure than a lion could in any gathering of lesser creatures; the fact
that he was Roosevelt decided that. He did use the personal pronoun "I," and the possessive
pronoun "My," with such frequency as to irritate good persons who were quite as egotistical
as he--if that be egotism--but who used such modest circumlocutions as "the present writer,"
or "one," to camouflage their self-conceit. Roosevelt enjoyed almost all his experiences with
equal zest, and he expressed his enjoyment without reserve. He was quite as well aware of his
foibles as his critics were, and he made merry over them. Probably nobody laughed more heartily
than he at the pleasantly humorous remark of one of his boys: "Father never likes to go to
a wedding or a funeral, because he can't be the bride at the wedding or the corpse at the funeral."

Ambition he had, the ambition which every healthy-minded man ought to have to deserve the good-will
and approbation of his fellows. This he admitted over and over again, and he made no pretense
of not taking satisfaction from the popularity his countrymen showered upon him. In writing
to a friend that he wished to be a candidate in 1904, he distinguished between the case of
Lincoln in 1864 and that of himself and other Presidential candidates for renomination. In
1864, the crisis was so tremendous that Lincoln must have considered that chiefly, irrespective
of his own hopes: whereas Roosevelt in 1904, like Jackson, Grant, Cleveland, and the other
two-term Presidents, might, without impropriety, look upon reelection as, in a measure, a personal
tribute.

One of my purposes in writing this sketch will have failed, if I have not made clear the character
of Roosevelt's ambition. He could not be happy unless he were busily at work. If that work
were in a public office he was all the happier. But the way in which he accepted one office
after another, each unrelated to the preceding, was so desultory as to prove that he did not
begin life with a deep-laid design on the Presidency. He got valuable political notoriety as
an Assemblyman, but that was, as I have so often said, because he could not be inconspicuous
anywhere. He took the office of Civil Service Commissioner, although everybody regarded that
as a commonplace field bounded on three sides by political oblivion; and only a dreamer could
have supposed that his service as Chief Police Commissioner of New York City could lead to
the White House. Only when he became Assistant Secretary of the Navy can he be said to have
come within striking distance of the great target. In enlisting in the Spanish War and organizing
the Rough Riders, he may well have reflected that military prowess has often favored a Presidential
candidacy; but even here, his sense of patriotic duty and his desire to experience the soldier's
life were almost indisputably his chief motives. As Governor of New York, however, he could
not disguise from himself the fact that that position might prove again, as it had proved in
the case of Cleveland, the stepping-stone to the Presidency. On finding, however, that Platt
and the Bosses, exasperated by him as Governor, wished to get rid of him by making him Vice-President,
and knowing that in the normal course of events a Vice-President never became President, he
tried to refuse nomination to the lower office. And only when he perceived that the masses
of the people, the country over, and not merely the Bosses, insisted on nominating him, did
he accept. This brief summary of his political progress assuredly does not bear out the charge
that he was the victim of uncontrollable ambition.

Roosevelt's Ananias Club caught the imagination of the country, but not always favorably. Those
whom he elected into it, for instance, did not relish the notoriety. Others thought that it
betokened irritation in him, and that a man in his high position ought not to punish persons
who were presumably trustworthy by branding them so conspicuously. In fact, I suppose, he sometimes
applied the brand too hastily, under the spur of sudden resentment. The most-open of men himself,
he had no hesitation in commenting on anybody or any topic with the greatest indiscretion.
For he took it for granted that even the strangers who heard him would hold his remarks as
confidential. When, therefore, one of his hearers went outside and reported in public what
the President had said, Roosevelt disavowed it, and put the babbler in the Ananias class. What
a President wishes the public to know, he tells it himself. What he utters in private should,
in honor, be held as confidential.

When I say that Roosevelt was astonishingly open, I do not mean that he blurted out everything,
for he always knew the company with whom he talked, and if there were any among them with whom
it would be imprudent to risk an indiscretion, he took care to talk "for safety." With him,
a secret was a secret, and he could be as silent as an unopened Egyptian tomb. Certain diplomatic
affairs he did not lisp, even to his Secretary of State. So far as appears, John Hay knew nothing
about the President's interviews with the German Ambassador Holleben, which forced William
II to arbitrate. And he sometimes prepared a bill for Congress with out consulting his Cabinet,
for fear that the stock jobbers might get wind of it and bull or bear the market with the news.

Before passing on, I must remark that some cases of apparent mendacity or inaccuracy on the
part of a President--especially if he were as voluble and busy as Roosevelt--must be attributed
to forgetfulness or misunderstanding and not to wilful lying. A person coming from an interview
with him might construe as a promise the kindly remarks with which the President wished to
soften a refusal. The promise, which was no promise, not being kept, the suppliant accused
the President of faithlessness or falsehood. McKinley, it was said, could say no to three different
seekers for the same office so balmily that each of them went away convinced that he was the
successful applicant. Yet McKinley escaped the charge of mendacity and Roosevelt, who deserved
it far less, did not.

In his writings and speeches, Roosevelt uttered his opinions so candidly that we need not fall
back on breaches of confidence to explain why his opponents were maddened by them. Plutocrats
and monopolists might well wince at being called "malefactors of great wealth," "the wealthy
criminal class." Such expressions had the virtue, from the point of view of rhetoric, of being
so descriptive that any body could visualize them. They stung; they shed indefinable odium
on a whole class; and, no doubt, this was just what Roosevelt intended. To many critics they
seemed cruel, because, instead of allowing for exceptions, they huddled all plutocrats together,
the virtuous and the vicious alike. And so with the victims of his phrase, "undesirable citizens."
I marvel rather, however, that Roosevelt, given his extraordinary talent of flashing epithets
and the rush of his indignation when he was doing battle for a good cause, displayed as much
moderation as he did. Had he been a demagogue, he would have roused the masses against the
capitalists and have goaded them to such a pitch of hatred that they would have looked to violence,
bloodshed, and injustice, as the remedy they must apply.

But Roosevelt was farthest removed from the Revolutionists of the vulgar, red-handed class.
He consecrated his life to prevent Revolution. All his action in the conflict between Labor
and Capital aimed at conciliation. He told the plutocrats their defects with brutal frankness,
and if he promoted laws to curb them, it was because he realized, as they did not, that, unless
they mended their ways, they would bring down upon themselves a Socialist avalanche which they
could not withstand. What set the seal of consecration on his work was his treatment of Labor
with equal justice. Unlike the demagogue, he did not flatter the "horny-handed sons of toil"
or obsequiously do the bidding of railroad brotherhoods, or pretend that the capitalist had
no rights, and that all workingmen were good merely because they worked. On the contrary, he
told them that no class was above the law; he warned them that if Labor attempted to get its
demands by violence, he would put it down. He ridiculed the idea that honest citizenship depends
on the more or less money a man has in his pocket. "A man who is good enough to shed his blood
for his country," Roosevelt said in a Fourth-of-July speech at Springfield, Illinois, in 1903,
"is good enough to be given a square deal afterward. More than that no man is entitled to,
and less than that no man shall have."

That phrase, "a square deal," stuck in the hearts of the American people. It summed up what
they regarded as Roosevelt's most characteristic trait. He was the man of the square deal,
who instinctively resented injustice done to those who could not protect themselves; the friend
of the underdog, the companion of the self-reliant and the self-respecting. It is under this
aspect that Roosevelt seems most likely to live in popular history.

So, from the time he became President, the public was divided into believing that there were
two Roosevelts. His enemies made almost a monster of him, denouncing and fearing him as violent,
rash, pugnacious, egotistical, ogreish in his mad, hatred of Capital, and Capitalists condemned
him as hypocritical, cruel, lying, and vindictive. The other side, however, insisted on his
courage; he was a fighter, but he always fought to defend the weak and to uphold the right;
he was equally unmoved by Bosses and by demagogues; in his human relations he regarded only
what a man was, not his class or condition; he had a great hearted, jovial simplicity; a far-seeing
and steadfast patriotism; he preached the Square Deal and he practiced it; even more than Lincoln
he was accessible to every one.

CHAPTER XIV. THE PRESIDENT AND THE KAISER

During the first years of Roosevelt's Administration he had to encounter many conditions which
existed rather from the momentum they had from the past than from any living vigor of their
own. It was a time of transition. The group of politicians dating from the Civil War was nearly
extinct, and the leaders who had come to the front after 1870 were also much thinned in number,
and fast dropping off. Washington itself was becoming one of the most beautiful cities in the
world, with its broad avenues, seldom thronged, its circles and squares, whose frequenters
seemed never busy, its spirit of leisure, its suggestion of opulence and amplitude, and of
a not too zealous or disturbing hold on reality. You still saw occasionally a tiny cottage
inhabited by a colored family cuddled up against a new and imposing palace, just as you might
pass a colored mammy on the same sidewalk with a millionaire Senator, for the residential section
had not yet been socially standardized.

Only a few years before, under President Cleveland, a single telephone sufficed for the White
House, and as the telephone operator stopped work at six o'clock, the President himself or
some member of his family had to answer calls during the evening. A single secretary wrote
in long hand most of the Presidential correspondence. Examples of similar primitiveness might
be found almost everywhere, and the older generation seemed to imagine that a certain slipshod
and dozing quality belonged to the very idea of Democracy. If you were neatly dressed and wide
awake, you would inevitably be remarked among your fellows; such remark would imply superiority;
and to be superior was supposedly to be undemocratic.

Nevertheless this was a time of transition, and the vigor which emanated from the young President
passed like electricity through all lines and hastened the change. He caused the White House
to be remodeled and fitted on the one hand for social purposes which required much more spacious
accommodation, and on the other for offices in which he could conduct the largely increased
Presidential business. Instead of one telephone there were many working night and day, and
instead of a single longhand secretary, there were a score of stenographers and typists. Before
he left Washington he saw a vast Union Station erected instead of the over-grown shanties at
Sixth Street, and he had encouraged the laying-out of the waste places beyond the Capitol,
thus adding to the city another and imposing section. His interest did not stop at politics,
nor at carrying through the reforms he had at heart. He attended with equal keenness and solicitude
to external improvements.

Now at first, as I have suggested, his chief duty was to continue President McKinley's policies,
which concerned mostly the establishment of our insular dependencies, and the readjustment
of our diplomatic relations. I have described how he closed the dispute over the Alaskan Boundary,
over our joint control with England over the Isthmus of Panama, and how he circumvented the
attempt of the Colombian blackmailers to block our construction of the Canal.

We must now glance at a matter of almost equal importance--our relations with Germany. The
German attack on civilization, which was openly delivered in 194, revealed to the world that
for twenty years before the German Emperor had been secretly preparing his mad project of Universal
Conquest. We see now that he used all sorts of base tools German exchange professors, spies,
bribers, conventional insinuators and corrupters, organizers of pro-German sentiment, and of
societies of German Americans. So little did he and his lackeys understand the American spirit
that they assumed that at the given signal the people of the United States would gladly go
over to them. He counted on securing North and South America by commerce and corruption, and
not by armed force. The reaffirmation of the Monroe Doctrine by President Cleveland in 1895
seriously troubled him; for he contemplated planting German colonies in Central and South America
without resistance, but the Monroe Doctrine in its latest interpretation forbade him or any
foreign government from establishing dominion in either American continent. Still, two things
comforted him: the Americans were, he thought, a loose, happy-go-lucky people, without any
consecutive or deep-laid policy, as foolish republicans must be; and next, he knew that he
had the most powerful army in the world, which, if put to the test, would crush the undisciplined
American militia at the first onset. He adopted, therefore, a double policy: he pretended openly
to be most friendly to the Americans; he flattered all of them whom he could reach in Berlin,
and he directed an effusive propaganda in the United States. In secret, how ever, he lost no
occasion to harm this country. When the Spanish War came in 1898, he tried to form a naval
coalition of his fleet with those of France and England, and it was only the refusal of England
to- join in it which saved this country from disaster. The United States owe Mr. Balfour, who
at that time controlled the British Foreign Office, an eternal debt of gratitude, because it
was he who replied to the Kaiser's secret temptation: "No: if the British fleet takes any part
in this war, it will be to put itself between the American fleet and those of your coalition."

The Kaiser expressed his real sentiment towards the United States in a remark which he made
later, not expecting that it would reach American ears. "If I had had ships enough," he said,
"I would have taken the Americans by the scruff of the neck." As it was, he showed his purpose
to those who had eyes to see it, by ordering the German Squadron under Diederichs to go to
Manila and take what he could there. Fortunately before he could take Manila or the Philippines
he had to take the American Commodore, George Dewey, and when he discovered what sort of a
sea-fighter the mountains of Vermont had produced in Dewey, he decided not to attack him. Perhaps
also the fact that the English commander at Manila, Captain Chichester, stood ready to back
up Dewey caused Diederichs to back down. The true Prussian truculence always oozes out when
it has not a safe margin of superiority in strength on its side.

The Kaiser was not to be foiled, however, in his determination to get a foothold in America.
As the likelihood that the Panama Canal would be constructed became a certainty, he redoubled
his efforts. He tried to buy from a Mexican Land Company two large ports in Lower California
for "his personal use." These would have given him, of course, control over the approach to
the Canal from the Pacific. Simultaneously he sent a surveying expedition to the Caribbean
Sea, which found a spacious harbor, that might serve as a naval base, on an unoccupied island
near the main line of vessels approaching the Canal from the east, but before he could plant
a force there; the presence of his surveyors was discovered, and they sailed away.

He now resorted to a more cunning ruse. The people of Venezuela owed considerable sums to merchants
and bankers in Germany, England, and Italy, and the creditors could recover neither their capital
nor the interest on it. The Kaiser bethought him self of the simple plan of making a naval
demonstration against the Venezuelans if they did not pay up; he would send his troops ashore,
occupy the chief harbors, and take in the customs. To disguise his ulterior motive, he persuaded
England and Italy to join him in collecting their bill against Venezuela. So warships of the
three nations appeared off the Venezuelan coast, and for some time they maintained what they
called "A peaceful blockade." After a while Secretary Hay pointed out that there could be no
such thing as a peaceful blockade; that a blockade was, by its very nature, an act of war;
accordingly the blockaders declared a state of belligerency between themselves and Venezuela,
and Germany threatened to bombard the seacoast towns unless the debt was settled without further
delay. President Roosevelt had no illusions as to what bombardment and occupation by German
troops would mean. If a regiment or two of Germans once went into garrison at Caracas or Porto
Cabello, the Kaiser would secure the foothold he craved on the American Coast within striking
distance of the projected Canal, and Venezuela, unable to ward off his aggression, would certainly
be helpless to drive him out. Mr. Roosevelt allowed Mr. Herbert W. Bowen, the American Minister
to Venezuela, to serve as Special Commissioner for Venezuela in conducting her negotiations
with. Germany. He, himself, however, took the matter into his own hands at Washington. Having
sounded England and Italy, and learned that they were willing to arbitrate, and knowing also
that neither of them schemed to take territorial payment for their bills, he directed his diplomatic
attack straight at the Kaiser. When the German Ambassador, Dr. von Holleben, one of the pompous
and ponderous professorial sort of German officials, was calling on him at the White House,
the President told him to warn the Kaiser that unless he consented, within a given time--about
ten days--to arbitrate the Venezuelan dispute, the American fleet under Admiral Dewey would
appear off the Venezuelan coast and defend it from any attack which the German Squadron might
attempt to make. Holleben displayed consternation; he protested that since his Imperial Master
had refused to arbitrate, there could be no arbitration. His Imperial Master could not change
his Imperial Mind, and the dutiful servant asked the President whether he realized what such
a demand meant. The President replied calmly that he knew it meant war. A week passed, but
brought no reply from Berlin; then Holleben called again at the White House on some unimportant
matters; as he turned to go the President inquired, "Have you heard from Berlin?" "No," said
Holleben. "Of course His Imperial Majesty cannot arbitrate." "Very well, " said Roosevelt,
"you may think it worth while to cable to Berlin that I have changed my mind. I am sending
instructions to Admiral Dewey to take our fleet to Venezuela next Monday instead of Tuesday."
Holleben brought the interview to a close at once and departed with evident signs of alarm.
He returned in less than thirty-six hours with relief and satisfaction written on his face,
as he informed the President, "His Imperial Majesty consents to arbitrate."

In order to screen the Kaiser's mortification from the world, Roosevelt declared that his transaction--which
only he, the Kaiser, and Holleben knew about--should not be made public at the time; and he
even went so far, a little later, in speaking on the matter as to refer to the German Emperor
as a good friend and practicer of arbitration.

Many years later, when Roosevelt and I discussed this episode we cast about for reasons to
account for the Kaiser's sudden back-down. We concluded that after the first interview Holleben
either did not cable to Berlin at all, or he gave the message with his own comment that it
was all a bluff. After the second interview, he consulted Buenz, the German Consul-General
at New York, who knew Roosevelt well and knew also the powerfulness of Dewey's fleet. He assured
Holleben that the President was not bluffing, and that Dewey could blow all the German Navy,
then in existence, out of the water in half an hour. So Holleben sent a hot cablegram to Berlin,
and Berlin understood that only an immediate answer would do.

Poor, servile, old bureaucrat Holleben! The Kaiser soon treated him as he was in the habit
of treating any of his servile creatures, high or low, who made a fiasco. Deceived by the glowing
reports which his agents in the United States sent to him, the Kaiser believed that the time
was ripe for a visit by a Hohenzollern, to let off the pent-up enthusiasm of the German-Americans
and to stimulate the pro-German conspiracy here. Accordingly Prince Henry of Prussia came over
and made a whirlwind trip, as far as Chicago; but it was in no sense a royal progress. Multitudes
flocked to see him out of curiosity, but Prince Henry realized, and so did the German kin here,
that his mission had failed. A scapegoat must be found, and apparently Holleben was the chosen
victim.

The Kaiser cabled him to resign and take the next day's steamer home, alleging "chronic illness"
as an excuse. He sailed from Hoboken obediently, and there were none so poor as to do him reverence.
The sycophants who had fawned upon him while he was enjoying the Imperial favor as Ambassador
took care not to be seen waving a farewell to him from the pier. Instead of that, they were
busy telling over his blunders. He had served French instead of German champagne at a banquet
for Prince Henry, and he had allowed the Kaiser's yacht to be christened in French champagne.
How could such a blunderer satisfy the diplomatic requirements of the vain and petty Kaiser?
And yet! Holleben was utterly devoted and willing to grovel in the mud. He even suggested to
President Roosevelt that at the State Banquet at the White House, Prince Henry, as a Hohenzollern,
and the representative of the Almightiest Kaiser, should walk out to dinner first; but there
was no discussion, for the President replied curtly, "No person living precedes the President
of the United States in the White House."

Henceforth the Kaiser understood that the United States Government, at least as long as Roosevelt
was President, would repel any attempt by foreigners to violate the Monroe Doctrine, and set
up a nucleus of foreign power in either North or South America. He devoted himself all the
more earnestly to pushing the sly work of peaceful penetration, that work of spying and lying
in which the German people proved itself easily first. The diabolical propaganda, aimed not
only at undermining the United States, at seducing the Irish and other hyphenate groups of
Americans, but at polluting the Mexicans and several of the South American States; and later
there was a thoroughly organized conspiracy to stir up animosity between this country and Japan
by making the Japanese hate and suspect the Americans, and by making the Americans hate and
suspect the Japanese. I alluded just now to the fact that German intrigue was working in Bogota,
and influenced the Colombian blackmailers in refusing to sign the Hay Herran Canal Treaty with
the United States, and peered about in the hope of snapping up the Canal rights for Germany.

Outwardly, during the first decade of the twentieth century, the Kaiser seemed to be most active
in interfering in European politics, including those of Morocco, in which the French were entangled.
In 1904 the war between Russia and Japan broke out. Roosevelt remained strictly neutral towards
both belligerents, making it evident, however, that either or both of them could count on his
friendly offices if they sought mediation. At the beginning of the war, it was generally assumed
that the German Kaiser shed no tears over the Russian reverses, for the weaker Russia became,
the less Germany needed to fear her as a neighbor. At length, however, when it looked as if
the Japanese might actually shatter the Russian Empire, Germany and the other European Powers
seemed to have had a common feeling that a decided victory by an Asiatic nation like Japan
would certainly require a readjustment of world politics, and might not only put in jeopardy
European interests and control in Asia, but also raise up against Europe what the Kaiser had
already advertised as the Yellow Peril. I have no evidence that President Roosevelt shared
this anxiety; on the contrary, I think that he was not unwilling that a strong Japan should
exist to prevent the dismemberment of Eastern Asia by European land-grabbers.

By the spring of 1905, both Russia and Japan had fought almost to exhaustion. The probability
was that Russia with her vast population could continue to replenish her army. Japan, with
great pluck, after winning amazing victories, which left her weaker and weaker, made no sign
of wishing for an armistice. Roosevelt, however, on his own motion wrote a private letter to
the Czar, Nicholas II, and sent George Meyer, Ambassador to Italy, with it on a special mission
to Petrograd. The President urged the Czar to consider making peace, since both the Russians
and the Japanese had nearly fought them selves out, and further warfare would add to the losses
and burdens, already tremendous, of both people. Probably he hinted also that another disaster
in the field might cause an outbreak by the Russian Revolutionists. I have not seen his letter--perhaps
a copy of it has escaped, in the Czar's secret archives, the violence of the Bolshevists--but
I have heard him speak about it. I have reason to suppose also that he wrote privately to the
Kaiser to use his influence with the Czar. At any rate, the Czar listened to the President's
advice, and by one of those diplomatic devices by which both parties saved their dignity, an
armistice was arranged and, in the summer of 1905, the Peace was signed. The following year,
the Trustees of the Nobel Peace Prize recognized Roosevelt's large part in stopping the war,
by giving the Prize to him.

Meanwhile, the irritation between France and Germany had increased to the point where open
rupture was feared. For years Germany had been waiting for a propitious moment to swoop down
on France and overwhelm her. The French intrigues in Morocco, which were leading visibly to
a French Protectorate over that country, aroused German resentment, for the Germans coveted
Morocco themselves. The Kaiser went so far as to invite Roosevelt to interfere with him in
Morocco, but this, the President replied, was impossible. Probably he was not unwilling to
have the German Emperor understand that, while the United States would interfere with all their
might to prevent a foreign attack on the Monroe Doctrine, they meant to keep their hands off
in European quarrels. That he also had a clear idea of William II's temperament appears from
the following opinion which I find in a private letter of his at this time: "The Kaiser had
weekly pipe dreams."

The situation grew very angry, and von Billow, the German Chancellor, did not hide his purpose
of upholding the German pretensions, even at the cost of war. President Roosevelt then wrote--privately--to
the Kaiser impressing it upon him that for Germany to make war on France would be a crime against
civilization, and he suggested that a Conference of Powers be held to discuss the Moroccan
difficulty, and to agree upon terms for a peaceful adjustment. The Kaiser finally accepted
Roosevelt's advice, and after a long debate over the preliminaries, the Conference was held
at Algeciras, Spain.

That Roosevelt understood, or even suspected, the great German conspiracy which the Kaiser's
hire lings were weaving over the United States is wholly improbable. Had he known of any plot
he would have been the first to hunt it down and crush it. He knew in general of the extravagant
vaporings of the Pan-Germans; but, like most of us, he supposed that there was still enough
sanity, not to say common sense, left in Germany to laugh such follies away. Through his intimate
friend, Spring-Rice, subsequently the British Ambassador, he had early and sound information
of the conditions of Germany. He watched with curiosity the abnormal expansion of the German
Fleet. All these things simply confirmed his belief that the United States must attend seriously
to the business of making military and naval preparations.

Secretary Hay had already secured the recognition by the European Powers of the policy of the
Open Door in China, the year before Roosevelt became President, but the struggle to maintain
that policy had to be kept up for several years.

By an adroit move similar to that by which Hay had secured the unwilling adherence of the Powers
to his original proposal of the Open Door, he, with Roosevelt's sanction, prevented the German
Emperor from carrying out a plan to cut up China and divide the slices among the Europeans.

Equally adroit was Roosevelt's method of dealing with the Czar in 1903. Russian mobs ran amuck
and massacred many Jews in the city of Kishineff. The news of this atrocity reached the outside
world slowly: when it came, the Jews of western Europe, and especially those of the United
States, cried out in horror, held meetings, drew up protests, and framed petitions, asking
the Czar to punish the criminals. Leading American Jews besought Roosevelt to plead their cause
before the Czar. As it was well known that the Czar would refuse to receive such petitions,
and would regard himself as insulted by whatever nation should lay them before him by official
diplomatic means, the world wondered what Roosevelt would do. He took one of his short cuts,
and chose a way which everybody saw was most obvious and most simple, as soon as he had chosen
it. He sent the petitions to our Ambassador at Petrograd, accompanying them with a letter which
recited the atrocities and grievances. In this letter, which was handed to the Russian Secretary
of State, our Government asked whether His Majesty the Czar would condescend to receive the
petitions. Of course the reply was no, but the letter was published in all countries, so that
the Czar also knew of the petitions, and of the horrors which called them out. In this fashion
the former Ranchman and Rough Rider outwitted, by what I may call his straightforward guile,
the crafty diplomats of the Romanoffs.

CHAPTER XV. ROOSEVELT AND CONGRESS

In a previous chapter I glanced at three or four of the principal measures in internal policy
which Roosevelt took up and fought through, until he finally saw them passed by Congress. No
other President, as has been often remarked, kept Congress so busy; and, we may add, none of
his predecessors (unless it were Lincoln with the legislation required by the Civil War) put
so many new laws on the national statute book. Mr. Charles G. Washburn enumerates these acts
credited to Roosevelt's seven and a half years' administration: "The Elkins Anti-Rebate Law
applying to railroads; the creation of the Department of Commerce and Labor and the Bureau
of Corporations; the law authorizing the building of the Panama Canal; the Hepburn Bill amending
and vitalizing the Interstate Commerce Act; the Pure Food and Meat Inspection laws; the law
creating the Bureau of Immigration; the Employers' Liability and Safety Appliance Laws, that
limited the working hours of employees; the law making the Government liable for injuries to
its employees; the law forbidding child labor in the District of Columbia; the reformation
of the Consular Service; prohibition of campaign contributions from corporations; the Emergency
Currency Law, which also provided for the creation of the Monetary Commission." *

* C. G. Washburn, 128, 129.

Although the list is by no means complete, it shows that Roosevelt's receptive and sleepless
mind fastened on the full circle of questions which interested American life, so far as that
is controlled or directed by national legislation. Some of the laws passed were simply readjustments--new
statutes on old matters. Other laws were new, embodying the first attempt to define the attitude
which the courts should hold towards new questions which had grown suddenly into great importance.
The decade which had favored the springing-up and amazing expansion of the Big Interests, had
to be followed by the decade which framed legislation for regulating and curbing these interests.
Quite naturally, the monopolists affected did not like to be harnessed or controlled, and,
to put it mildly, they resented the interference of the formidable young President whom they
could neither frighten, inveigle, nor cajole.

And yet it is as evident to all Americans now, as it was to some Americans at the time, that
that legislation had to be passed; because if the monopolists had been allowed to go on unrestrained,
they would either have perverted this Republic into an open Plutocracy, in which individual
liberty and equality before the law would have disappeared, or they would have hurried on the
Social Revolution, the Armageddon of Labor and Capital, the merciless conflict of class with
class, which many persons already vaguely dreaded, or thought they saw looming like an ominous
cloud on the horizon. It seems astounding that any one should have questioned the necessity
of setting up regulations. And will not posterity wonder, when it learns that only in the first
decade of the twentieth century did we provide laws against the cruel and killing labor of
little children, and against impure foods and drugs?

Year after year, the railroads furnished unending causes for legislative control. There were
the old laws which the railroad men tried to evade and which the President, as was his duty,
insisted on enforcing; and still more insistent and spectacular were the new problems. Just
as three or four hundred years ago the most active and vigorous Frenchmen and English men tried
to get possession of large tracts of land, or even of provinces, and became counts and dukes,
so the Americans of our generation, who aspired to lead the pushing financier class, worked
day and night to own a railroad. Naturally one railroad did not satisfy a man who was bitten
by this ambition; he reached out for several, or even for a transcontinental system. The war
for railroad ownership or monopoly was waged intensely, and in 1901 it nearly plunged the country
into a disastrous financial panic. Edward H. Harriman, who had only recently been regarded
as a great power in the struggle for railroad supremacy, clashed with James J. Hill, of Minnesota,
and J. P. Morgan, a New York banker, over the Northern Pacific Railroad. Their battle was nominally
a draw, because Wall Street rushed in and, to avert a nation-wide calamity, demanded a truce.
But Harriman remained, until his death in 1909, the railroad czar of the United States, and
when he died, he was master of twenty-five thousand miles of road, chief influencer of fifty
thousand more miles, besides steamboat companies, banks, and other financial institutions.
He controlled more money than any other American. I summarize these statistics, in order to
show the reader what sort of a Colossus the President of the United States had to do battle
with when he undertook to secure new laws adequate to the control of the enormously expanded
railway problems. And he did succeed, in large measure, in bringing the giant corporations
to recognize the authority of the Nation. The decision of the Supreme Court in the Northern
Securities case, by which the merger of two or more competing roads was declared illegal, put
a stop to the practice of consolidation, which might have resulted in the ownership of all
the railroads in the United States by a single person. Then followed the process of "unscrambling
the omelet," to use J. P. Morgan's phrase, in order to bring the companies already illegally
merged within the letter of the law. Probably a lynx-eyed investigator might discover that
in some of the efforts to legalize operations in the future, "the voice was Jacob's, but the
hands were the hands of Esau."

The laws aimed at regulating transportation, rates, and rebates, certainly made for justice,
and helped to enlighten great corporations as to their place in the community and their duties
towards it. Roosevelt showed that his fearlessness had apparently no bounds, when in 1907 he
caused suit to be brought against the Standard Oil Company in Indiana--a branch of a monopoly
which was popularly supposed to be above the law--for receiving a rebate from a railroad on
the petroleum shipped by the Company. The judge who tried the case gave a verdict in favor
of the Government, but another judge, to whom appeal was made, reversed the decision, and finally
at a re-trial, a third judge dismissed the indictment. "Thus," says Mr. Ogg, "a good case was
lost through judicial blundering." *

* Ogg, 50.

But the greatest of Roosevelt's works as a legislator were those which he carried through in
the fields of conservation and reclamation. He did not invent these issues; he was only one
of many persons who understood their vast importance. He gives full credit to Mr. Gifford Pinchot
and Mr. F. H. Newell, who first laid these subjects before him as matters which he as President
ought to consider. He had himself during his days in the West seen the need of irrigating the
waste tracts.

The public lands saved mounted to millions of acres. The long-standing practice of stealing
these lands was checked and put a stop to as rapidly as possible. Individuals and private companies
had bought for a song great tracts of national property, getting thereby, it might be, the
title to mineral deposits worth fabulous sums; and these persons were naturally angry at being
deprived of the immense fortunes which they had counted on for themselves. A company would
buy up an entire watershed, and control, for its private profit, the water-supply of a region.
Roosevelt insisted with indisputable logic that the States and Counties ought them selves to
own such natural resources and derive an income from them. So, too, were the areas restored
to man's habitation, and to agriculture, by irrigation, and by reforesting. A company, having
no object but its own enrichment, would ruthlessly cut down a thousand square miles of timber
in order to convert it into wood pulp for paper, or into lumber for building; and the region
thus devastated, as if a German army had been over it, would be left without regard to the
effect on the climate and the water supply of the surrounding country. Surely this was wrong.

It seems to me as needless now to argue in behalf of Roosevelt's legislation for the conservation
of national resources as to argue against cannibalism as a practice fit for civilized men.
That lawyers of repute and Congressmen of reputation should have done their utmost, as late
as 1906, to obstruct and defeat the passage of the Meat Inspection Bill must seem incredible
to persons of average sanity and conscience. If any of those obstructionists still live, they
do not boast of their performance, nor is it likely that their children will exult over this
part of the paternal record.

In order not to exaggerate Roosevelt's importance in these fundamental reforms, I would repeat
that he did not originate the idea of many of them. He gladly took his cue for conservation
from Gifford Pinchot, and for reclamation from F. H. Newell, as I have said; the need of inspecting
the packing-houses which exported meat, from Senator A. J. Beveridge, and so on. The vital
fact is that these projects got form and vigor and publicity, and were pushed through Congress,
only after Roosevelt took them up. His opponents, the packers, the land-robbers, the mine-grabbers,
the wood-pulp pirates, fought him at every point. They appealed to the old law to discredit
and damn the new. They gave him no quarter, and he asked for none because he was bent on securing
justice, irrespective of persons or private interests. It followed, of course, that they watched
eagerly for any slip which might wreck him, and they thought they had found their chance in 1907.

That was a year of financial upheaval, almost of panic, the blame for which the Big Interests
tried to fasten on the President. It resulted, they said, from his attack on Capital and the
Corporations. A special incident gave plausibility to some of their bitter criticism. Messrs.
Gary and Frick, of the United States Steel Corporation, called on the President, and told him
that the Tennessee Coal and Iron Company was on the verge of bankruptcy, and that, if it went
under, a general panic would probably ensue. To prevent this financial disaster, their Corporation
was willing to buy up enough of the Tennessee Company to save it, but they wished to know whether
the President would allow the purchase. He told them that he could not officially advise them
to take the action proposed, but that he did not regard it as a public duty of his to raise
any objection. They made the purchase, and the total amount of their holdings in the Tennessee
Company did not equal in value what they had originally held, for the stock had greatly shrunk.
The Attorney-General subsequently informed the President that he saw no reason to prosecute
the United States Steel Corporation. But the President's enemies did not spare their criticism.
They circulated grave suspicions; they hinted that, if the whole truth were known, Roosevelt
would be embarrassed, to say the least. What had become of his pretended impartiality when
he allowed one of the great Trusts to do, with impunity, that which others were prosecuted
for? The public, which seldom has the knowledge, or the information, necessary for understanding
business or financial complexities, usually remarks, with the archaic sapience of a Greek chorus,
"There must be some fire where there is so much smoke." But the public interest was never seriously
roused over the Tennessee Coal and Iron affair, and, six years later, when a United States
District Court handed down a verdict in which this matter was referred to, the public had almost
forgotten what it was all about.

The great result from Roosevelt's battle for conservation, which I believe will glorify him,
in the future, to heroic proportions as a statesman, is that where he found wide stretches
of desert he left fertile States, that he saved from destruction, that he seized from the hands
of the spoilers rivers and valleys which belonged to the people, and that he kept for the people
mineral lands of untold value. Nor did he work for material and sanitary prosperity alone;
but he worked also for Beauty. He reserved as National Parks for the use and delight of men
and women forever some of the most beautiful regions in the United States, and the support
he gave to these causes urged them forward after he ceased to be President.

CHAPTER XVI. THE SQUARE DEAL IN ACTION

Having seen briefly how President Roosevelt dealt with Capital, let us look even more briefly
at his dealings with Labor. I think that he took the deepest personal satisfaction in fighting
the criminal rich and the soulless corporations, because he regarded them not only as lawbreakers,
malefactors of great wealth, but as despicably mean, in that they used their power to oppress
the poor and helpless classes. The Labor groups when they burst out into violence merely responded
to the passion which men naturally feel at injustice and at suffering; to their violence they
did not add slyness or legal deceits. But Roosevelt had no toleration for the Labor demagogue,
for the walking delegate, and all similar parasites, who preyed upon the working classes for
their own profit, and fomented the irritation of Labor and Capital.

Stronger, however, than his sympathy for any individual, and especially for those who suffered
without redress, was his love of justice. This he put in a phrase which he invented and made
current, a phrase which everybody could understand: "the labor unions shall have a square deal,
and the corporations shall have a square deal." At another time he expressed the same idea,
by saying that the rich man should have justice, and that the poor man should have justice,
and that no man should have more or less.

Time soon brought a test for his devotion to social justice. In the summer of 1902 the coal-miners
of Pennsylvania stopped working. Early in September the public awoke with a start to the realization
that a coal famine threatened the country. In the Eastern States, in New York, and Pennsylvania,
and in some of the Middle Western States, a calamity threatened, which would be quite as terrible
as the invasion of an enemy's army. For not only would lack of fuel cause incalculable hardship
and distress from cold, but it would stop transportation, and all manufacturing by machinery
run by coal. The mine operators and the miners were at a deadlock. The President invited the
leaders on both sides to confer with him at the White House. They came and found him stretched
out on an invalid's chair, with one of his legs much bandaged, from an accident he had received
in a collision at Pittsfield a few weeks before, but his mental vigor was unsubdued. John Mitchell
spoke for the miners. The President urged the quarrelers to come to terms. But the big coal
operators would not yield. They knew that the distress among the mining population was great,
and they believed that if the authorities would only maintain peace, the miners would soon
be forced to give in. So the meeting broke up and the "coal barons," as the newspapers dubbed
the operators, quitted with evident satisfaction. They felt that they had not only repelled
the miners again, but virtually put down the President for interfering in a matter in which
he had no legal jurisdiction.

And, in truth, the laws gave the President of the United States no authority to play the role
of arbiter in a strike. His plain duty was to keep the peace. If a strike resulted in violent
disorders he could send United States troops to quell them, but only in case the Governor of
the State in which the riots occurred declared himself unable, by the State force at his command,
to keep the peace, and requested assistance from the President. In the coal strike the Governor
of Pennsylvania, for reasons which I need not discuss here, refused to call for United States
troops, and so did the Pennsylvania Legislature. Roosevelt acted as a patriotic citizen might
act, but being the President, his interference had immensely greater weight than that of any
private citizen could have. He knew the law in the matter, but he believed that the popular
opinion of the American people would back him up.

In spite of the first rebuff, therefore, he persuaded the miners and the operators to agree
to the appointment of an arbitration commission, and this suggested a settlement which both
contestants accepted. It ended the great coal strike of 1902, but it left behind it much indignation
among the American people, who realized for the first time that one of the three or four great
industries essential to the welfare and even to the life itself of the Nation, was in the hands
of men who preferred their selfish interests to those of the Nation. It taught several other
lessons also; it taught, for instance, that great combinations of Labor may be as dangerous
as those of Capital, and as heedless of everything except their own selfish control. It taught
that the people of the States and of the Nation could not go on forever without taking steps
to put an end to the already dangerous hostility between Capital and Labor, and that that end
must be the establishment of justice for all. An apologist of the "coal barons" might have
pleaded that they held out not merely for their private gain on that occasion, but in order
to defeat the growing menace of Labor. Their stubbornness might turn back the rising flood
of socialism.

Respecters of legal precedent, on the other hand, criticised the President. They acknowledged
his good intentions, but they pointed out that his extra-legal interference set an ominously
bad example. And some of them would have preferred to go cold all winter, and even to have
had the quarrel sink into civil war, rather than to have had the constitutional ideals of the
Nation distorted or obscured by the President's good-natured endeavor. Roosevelt himself, however,
never held this opinion. In 1915, he wrote to Mr. Washburn: "I think the settlement of the
coal strike was much the most important thing I did about Labor, from every standpoint."

I find an intimate letter of his which dates from the time of the conflict itself and gives
frankly his motives and apology, if we should call it that. He admits that his action was not
strictly legal, but he asks that, if the President of the United States may not intervene to
prevent a widespread calamity, what is his authority worth? If it had been a national strike
of iron-workers or miners, he would have held himself aloof, but the coal strike affected a
product necessary to the life and health of the people. It was easy enough for well-to-do gentlemen
to say that they had rather go cold and see the fight carried. through until the strikers submitted,
than to have legal precedence ignored; for these gentlemen had money enough to buy fuel at
even an exorbitant price, and they would be warm anyway, while the great mass of the population
froze. I may add that it seems more legal than sensible that any official chosen to preserve
the public welfare and health should not be allowed to interpose against persons who would
destroy both, and may stir only after the destroyers have caused the catastrophe they aimed at.

Roosevelt's action in the great coal strike not only averted the danger, but it also gave Labor
means of judging him fairly. Every demagogue, from the days of Cleon down, has talked glibly
in behalf of the downtrodden or unjustly treated working-men, and we might suppose that the
demagogue has acquired enlargement of the heart, owing to his overpowering sympathy with Labor.
But the questions we have to ask about demagogues are two: Is he sincere? Is he wise?

Sincerity alone has been rather too much exalted as an excuse for the follies and crimes of
fanatics and zealots, blatherskites and cranks. Some of our "lunatic fringe" of reformers have
been heard to palliate the Huns' atrocities in Belgium, by the plea: "Ah, but they were so
perfectly sincere!" Sincerity alone, therefore, is not enough; it must be wise or it may be
diabolical. Now Roosevelt was both sincere and wise. He left no doubt in the strikers' minds
that he sympathized with their sufferings and grievances and with their attempts to better
their condition, so far as this could be achieved without violence, and without leaving a permanent
state of war between Labor and Capital. In a word, he did not aim at merely patching up a temporary
peace, but at finding, and when found, applying, a remedy to the deep-rooted causes of the quarrel.

By his settlement of the coal strike, Roosevelt showed the workers that he would practice towards
them the justice which he preached, but this did not mean that he would be unjust towards the
capitalists. They, too, should have justice, and they had it. He never intended to coddle laborers
or to make them feel that, having a grievance, as they alleged, they must be specially favored.
Since Labor is, or should be, common to all men, Roosevelt believed that every laborer, whether
farmer or mechanic, employer or employee, merchant or financier, should stand erect and look
every other man straight in the eyes, and neither look up nor down, but with level gaze, fearless,
uncringing, uncondescending. The laws he proposed, the adjustments he arranged, had the self-respect,
the dignity, of the individual, for their aim. He knew that nothing could be more dangerous
to the public, or more harmful to the laboring class itself, than to make of it a privileged
class, absolved from the obligations, and even from the laws, which bound the rest of the community.
By this ideal he set a great gulf between himself and the demagogues who fawned upon Labor
and corrupted it by granting its unjust demands.

He had always present before him a vision of the sacred Oneness of the body politic. This made
him the greatest of modern Democrats, and the chief interpreter, as it seems to me, of the
highest ideal of American Democracy. The ideal of Oneness can never be realized in a State
which permits a single class to enjoy privileges of its own at the expense of all other classes;
and it makes no difference whether this class belongs to the Proletariat or to the Plutocracy.
Equality before the law, and justice, are the two eternal instruments for establishing the
true Democracy. And I do not recall that in any of the measures which Roosevelt supported these
two vital principles were violated.

Any one can profess a creed; Theodore Roosevelt lived his.

Nothing better tested his impartiality than the strike of the Federation of Western Miners
in 1907. Many murders and much violence were attributed to this organization and they were
charged with assassinating Governor Steunenberg of Idaho. Their leaders, Moyer and Haywood,
were anarchists like themselves, and although they professed contempt for law, as soon as they
were arrested and brought up for trial, they clutched at every quibble of the law, as drowning
men clutch at straws to save them; and, be it said to the glory or shame of the law, it furnished
enough quibbles, not only to save them from the gallows, but to let them loose again on society
with the legal whitewash "not guilty" stamped upon them.

Roosevelt understood the great importance of punishing these men, and he committed the indiscretion
of classing them with certain big capitalists as "undesirable citizens." Members of the Federation
then wrote him denouncing his attempt to prejudice the courts against Moyer and Haywood, and
they resented that their leaders should be coupled with Harriman and other big capitalists
as "undesirable citizens." This gave the President the opportunity to reply that such criticism
did not come appropriately from the Federation; for they and their supporters had got up parades,
mass-meetings, and petitions in favor of Moyer and Haywood and for the direct purpose of intimidating
the court and jury. "You want," he said in substance, "the square deal for the defendants only. *

* Autobiography, 531.

But Moyer and Haywood, as I have said, escaped punishment, and before long Haywood reappeared
as leader of the Industrial Workers of the World, an anarchistic body with a comically inappropriate
name for its members objected to nothing so much as to industry and work. The I.W.W., as they
have been known for short, have consistently preached violence and "action," by which they
might take for themselves the savings and wealth of others as a means to enable them to do
no work. And some of the recent strikes which have brought the greatest misery upon the laborers
whom they misled, have been directed by I. W. W. leaders. It is not rendered one whit better
by the allegation that it is committed on behalf of a cause." * I need hardly state that the
President was as consistently vigilant to prevent labor unions from persecuting non-union men
as he was in upholding the just rights of the union.

* Autobiography, 532.

Consider what this record of his with Capital and Labor really means. The social conditions
in the United States, owing to the immense expansion in the production of wealth--an expansion
which included the invention of innumerable machines and the application, largely made possible
by immigration, of millions of laborers--had changed rapidly, and had brought pressingly to
the front novel and gigantic industrial and financial problems. In the solution of these problems
Justice and Equality must not only be regarded, but must play the determining part. Now, Justice
and Equality were beautiful abstractions which could be praised by every demagogue without
laying upon him any obligation except that of dulcet lip service. Every American, young or
old, had heard them lauded so unlimitedly that he did not trouble himself to inquire whether
they were facts or not; they were words, sonorous and pleasing words, which made his heart
throb, and himself feel a worthier creature. And then came along a young zealot, mighty in
physical vigor and moral energy, who believed that Justice and Equality were not mere abstractions,
were not mere words for politicians and parsons to thrill their audiences by, but were realities,
duties, which every man in a Democracy was bound to revere and to make prevail. And he urged
them with such power of persuasion, such tirelessness, such titanic zeal, that he not only
converted the masses of the people to believe in them, too, but he also made the legislators
of the country understand that they must embody these principles in the national statute book.
He did not originate, as I have said, all or most of the reforms, but he gave ear to those
who first suggested them, and his enthusiasm and support were essential to their adoption.
In order to measure the magnitude of Roosevelt's contribution in marking deeply the main principles
which should govern the New Age, we need only remember how little his predecessor, President
McKinley, a good man with the best intentions, either realized that the New Age was at hand,
or thought it necessary even to outline the principles which should guide it; and how little
his successor, President Taft, a most amiable man, understood that the New Age, with the Rooseveltian
reforms, had come to stay, and could not be swept back by actively opposing it or by allowing
the Rooseveltian ideals to lapse.

CHAPTER XVII. ROOSEVELT AT HOME

Although Theodore Roosevelt was personally known to more people of the United States than any
other President has been, and his manners and quick responsive cordiality made multitudes feel,
after a brief sight of him, or after shaking his hand, that they were old acquaintances, he
maintained during his life a dignified reticence regarding his home and family. But now that
he is dead and the world craves eagerly, but not irreverently, to know as much as it can about
his many sides, I feel that it is not improper to say something about that intimate side which
was in some respects the most characteristic of all.

Early in the eighties he bought a country place at Oyster Bay, Long Island, and on the top
of a hill he built a spacious house. There was a legend that in old times Indian Chiefs used
to gather there to hold their powwows; at any rate, the name, the Sagamores' Hill, survived
them, and this shortened to Sagamore Hill he gave to his home. That part of Long Island on
the north coast overlooking the Sound is very attractive; it is a country of hills and hollows,
with groves of tall trees, and open fields for farming, and lawns near the house. You look
down on Oyster Bay which seems to be a small lake shut in by the curving shore at the farther
end. From the house you see the Sound and the hills of Connecticut along the horizon.

After the death of his first wife in January, 1884, Roosevelt went West to the Bad Lands of
North Dakota where he lived two years at Medora, on a ranch which he owned, and there he endured
the hardships and excitements of ranch life at that time; acting as cow-puncher, ranchman,
deputy sheriff, or hunting big and little game, or writing books and articles. In the autumn
of 1886, however, having been urged to run as candidate for Mayor of New York City, he came
East again. He made a vigorous campaign, but having two opponents against him he was beaten.
Then he took a trip to Europe where he married Miss Edith Kermit Carow, whom he had known in
New York since childhood, and on their return to this country, they settled at Sagamore Hill.
Two years later, when President Harrison appointed Roosevelt a Civil Service Commissioner,
they moved to Washington. There they lived in a rather small house at 1720 Jefferson Place--"modest,"
one might call it, in comparison with the modern palaces which had begun to spring up in the
National Capital; but people go to a house for the sake of its occupants and not for its size
and upholstery.

So for almost six years pretty nearly everybody worth knowing crossed the Roosevelts' threshold,
and they themselves quickly took their place in Washington society. Roosevelt's humor, his
charm, his intensity, his approachableness, attracted even those who rejected his politics
and his party. Bright sayings cannot be stifled, and his added to the gayety of more than one
group. He was too discreet to give utterance to them all, but his private letters at that time,
and always, glistened with his remarks on public characters. He said, for instance, of Senator
X, whom he knew in Washington: He "looks like Judas, but unlike that gentleman, he has no capacity
for remorse."

When the Roosevelts returned to New York, where he became Police Commissioner in 1895, they
made their home again at Oyster Bay. This was thirty miles by rail from the city, near enough
to be easily accessible, but far enough away to deter the visits of random, curious, undesired
callers. Later, when automobiles came in, Roosevelt motored to and from town. Mrs. Roosevelt
looked after the place itself; she supervised the farming, and the flower gardens were her
especial care. The children were now growing up, and from the time when they could toddle they
took their place--a very large place--in the life of the home. Roosevelt described the intense
satisfaction he had in teaching the boys what his father had taught him. As soon as they were
large enough, they rode their horses, they sailed on the Cove and out into the Sound. They
played boys' games, and through him they learned very young to observe nature. In his college
days he had intended to be a naturalist, and natural history remained his strong est avocation.
And so he taught his children to know the birds and animals, the trees, plants, and flowers
of Oyster Bay and its neighborhood. They had their pets--Kermit, one of the boys, carried a
pet rat in his pocket.

Three things Roosevelt required of them all; obedience, manliness, and truthfulness. And I
imagine that all these virtues were taught by affection and example, rather than by constant
correction. For the family was wholly united, they did everything together; the children had
no better fun than to accompany their father and mother, and there were a dozen or more young
cousins and neighbors who went out with them too, forming a large, delighted family for whom
"Uncle" or "Cousin Theodore " was leader and idol. And just as formerly, in the long winter
nights on his ranch at Medora, he used to read aloud to the cowboys and hunters of what was
then the Western Wilderness, so at Sagamore Hill, in the days of their childhood, he read or
told stories to the circle of boys and girls.

In 1901, Mr. Roosevelt became President, and for seven years and a half his official residence
was the White House, where he was obliged to spend most of the year. But whenever he could
steal away for a few days he sought rest and recreation at Oyster Bay, and there, during the
summers, his family lived. So far as the changed conditions permitted, he did not allow his
official duties to interfere with his family life. "One of the most wearing things about being
President," a President once said to me, "is the incessant publicity of it. For four years
you have not a moment to yourself, not a moment of privacy." And yet Roosevelt, masterful in
so many other things, was masterful in this also. Nothing interfered with the seclusion of
the family breakfast. There were no guests, only Mrs. Roosevelt and the children, and the simplest
of food. At Oyster Bay he would often chop trees in the early morning, and sometimes, while
he was President, he would ride before breakfast, but the meal itself was quiet, private, uninterrupted.
Then each member of the family would go about his or her work, for idleness had no place with
them. The President spent his morning in attending to his correspondence and dictating letters,
then in receiving persons by appointment, and he always reserved time when any American, rich
or poor, young or old, could speak to him freely. He liked to see them all and many were the
odd experiences which he had. He asked one old lady what he could do for her. She replied:
"Nothing; I came all the way from Jacksonville, Florida, just to see what a live President
looked like. I never saw one before."

"That's very kind of you," the President replied; "persons from up here go all the way to Florida
just to see a live alligator"--and so he put the visitor at her ease.

Luncheon was a varied meal; sometimes there were only two or three guests at it; at other times
there might be a dozen. It afforded the President an opportunity for talking informally with
visitors whom he wished to see, and not infrequently it brought together round the table a
strange, not to say a motley, company.

After luncheon followed more work in his office for the President, looking over the letters
he had dictated and signing them, signing documents and holding interviews. Later in the afternoon
he always reserved two hours for a walk or drive with Mrs. Roosevelt. Nothing interfered with
that. In the season he played tennis with some of the large group of companions whom he gathered
round him, officials high and low, foreign Ambassadors and Cabinet Ministers and younger under-secretaries
who were popularly known as the "Tennis Cabinet." There were fifty or more of them, and that
so many should have kept their athletic vigor into middle age, and even beyond it, spoke well
for the physique of the men of official Washington at that time.

At Oyster Bay Roosevelt had instituted "hiking." He and the young people and such of the neighbors
as chose would start from Sagamore Hill and walk in a bee-line to a point four or five miles
off. The rule was that no natural impediment should cause them to digress or to stop. So they
went through the fields and over the fences, across ditches and pools, and even clambered up
and down a haystack, if one happened to be in the way, or through a barnyard. Of course they
often reached home spattered with mud or even drenched to the skin from a plunge into the water,
but with much fun, a livelier circulation, and a hearty appetite to their credit.

In Washington the President continued this practice of hiking, but in a somewhat modified form.
His favorite resort was Rock Creek, then a wild stream, with a good deal of water in it, and
here and there steep, rocky banks. To be invited by the President to go on one of those hikes
was regarded as a mark of special favor. He indulged in them to test a man's bodily vigor and
endurance, and there were many amusing incidents and perhaps more amusing stories about them.
M. Tardieu, who at that time was paying a short visit to this country and was connected with
the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs, told me that the dispatches which the new French Ambassador,
M. Jusserand, sent to Paris were full of reports on President Roosevelt's personality. The
Europeans had no definite conception of him at that time, and so the sympathetic and much-esteemed
Ambassador, who still represents France at Washington, tried to give his Government information
by which it could judge for itself what sort of a person the President was. What must have
been the surprise in the French Foreign Office when it received the following dispatch: (I
give the substance, of course, because I have not seen the original.):

'Yesterday,' wrote Ambassador Jusserand, 'President Roosevelt invited me to take a promenade
with him this afternoon at three. I arrived at the White House punctually, in afternoon dress
and silk hat, as if we were to stroll in the Tuileries Garden or in the Champs Elysees. To
my surprise, the President soon joined me in a tramping suit, with knickerbockers and thick
boots, and soft felt hat, much worn. Two or three other gentlemen came, and we started off
at what seemed to me a breakneck pace, which soon brought us out of the city. On reaching the
country, the President went pell-mell over the fields, following neither road nor path, always
on, on, straight ahead! I was much winded, but I would not give in, nor ask him to slow up,
because I had the honor of La belle France in my heart. At last we came to the bank of a stream,
rather wide and too deep to be forded. I sighed relief, because I thought that now we had reached
our goal and would rest a moment and catch our breath, before turning homeward. But judge of
my horror when I saw the President unbutton his clothes and heard him say, "We had better strip,
so as not to wet our things in the Creek." Then I, too, for the honor of France, removed my
apparel, everything except my lavender kid gloves. The President cast an inquiring look at
these as if they, too, must come off, but I quickly forestalled any remark by saying, "With
your permission, Mr. President, I will keep these on, otherwise it would be embarrassing if
we should meet ladies." And so we jumped into the water and swam across.'

M. Jusserand has a fine sense of humor and doubtless he has laughed often over this episode,
although he must have been astonished and irritated when it occurred. But it gave Roosevelt
exactly what he wanted by showing him that the plucky little French man was "game" for anything,
and they remained firm friends for life.

Occasionally, one of the guests invited on a hike relucted from taking the plunge, and then
he was allowed to go up stream or down and find a crossing at a bridge; but I suspect that
his host and the habitual hikers instinctively felt a little less regard for him after that.
General Leonard Wood was one of Roosevelt's boon companions on these excursions, and, speaking
of him, I am reminded of one of the President's orders which caused a great flurry among Army
officers in Washington.

The President learned that many of these officers had become soft, physically, through their
long residence in the city, where an unmilitary life did not tend to keep their muscles hard.
As a consequence these great men of war became easy-going, indolent even, better suited to
loaf in the armchairs of the Metropolitan Club and discuss campaigns and battles long ago than
to lead troops in the field. After consulting Generals Wood and Bell, who were themselves real
soldiers at the top of condition, the President issued orders that the infantry should march
fifty miles, and the cavalry one hundred, in three days. There was an outcry. The newspapers
denounced Roosevelt as a tyrant who followed his mere caprices. Some of the officers intrigued
with Congressmen to nullify the order. But when the President himself, accompanied by Surgeon-General
Rixey and two officers, rode more than one hundred miles in a single day over the frozen and
rutty Virginia roads, the objectors could not keep up open opposition. Roosevelt adds, ironically,
that three naval officers who walked the fifty miles in a day, were censured for not obeying
instructions, and were compelled to do the test over again in three days.

Dinner in the White House was usually a formal affair, to which most, if not all the guests,
at least, were invited some time in advance. There were, of course, the official dinners to
the foreign diplomats, to the justices of the Supreme Court, to the members of the Cabinet;
ordinarily, they might be described as general. The President never forgot those who had been
his friends at any period of his life. It might happen that Bill Sewall, his earliest guide
from Maine, or a Dakota ranchman, or a New York policeman, or one of his trusted enthusiasts
in a hard- fought political campaign, turned up at the White House. He was sure to be asked
to luncheon or to dinner, by the President. And these former chums must have felt somewhat
embarrassed, if they were capable of feeling embarrassment, when they found themselves seated
beside some of the great ladies of Washington. Perhaps Roosevelt himself felt a little trepidation
as to how the unmixables would mix. He is reported to have said to one Western cowboy of whom
he was fond: "Now, Jimmy, don't bring your gun along to-night. The British Ambassador is going
to dine too, and it wouldn't do for you to pepper the floor round his feet with bullets, in
order to see a tenderfoot dance."

But those dinners were mainly memorable occasions, and the guests who attended them heard some
of the best talk in America at that time, and came away with increased wonder for the variety
of knowledge and interest, and for the unceasing charm and courtesy of their host, the President.
Contrary to the opinion of persons who heard him only as a political speaker shouting in the
open air from the back platform of his train or in a public square, Roosevelt was not only
a speaker, he was also a most courteous listener. I watched him at little dinners listen not
only patiently, but with an astonishing simulation of interest, to very dull persons who usurped
the conversation and imagined that they were winning his admiration. Mr. John Morley, who was
a guest at the White House at election time in 1904, said: "The two things in America which
seem to me most extraordinary are Niagara Falls and President Roosevelt."

Jacob Riis, the most devoted personal follower of Roosevelt, gives this as the finest compliment
he ever heard of him. A lady said that she had always been looking for some living embodiment
of the high ideals she had as to what a hero ought to be. "I always wanted to make Roosevelt
out that," she declared, "but somehow every time he did something that seemed really great
it turned out, upon looking at it closely, that it was ONLY JUST THE RIGHT THING TO DO." *

* Riis, 268-69.

But at home Roosevelt had affection, not compliments, whether these were unintentional and
sincere, like that of the lady just quoted, or were thinly disguised flattery. And affection
was what he most craved from his family and nearest friends, and what he gave to them without
stint. As I have said, he allowed nothing to interrupt the hours set apart for his wife and
children while he was at the White House; and at Oyster Bay there was always time for them.
A typical story is told of the boys coming in upon him during a conference with some important
visitor, and saying reproachfully, "It's long after four o'clock, and you promised to go with
us at four." "So I did," said Roosevelt. And he quickly finished his business with the visitor
and went. When the children were young, he usually saw them at supper and into bed, and he
talked of the famous pillow fights they had with him. House guests at the White House some
times unexpectedly caught sight of him crawling in the entry near the children's rooms, with
two or three children riding on his back. Roosevelt's days were seldom less than fifteen hours
long, and we can guess how he regarded the laboring men of today who clamor for eight and six,
and even fewer hours, as the normal period for a day's work. He got up at half-past seven and
always finished breakfast by nine, when what many might call the real work of his day began.

The unimaginative laborer probably supposes that most of the duties which fall to an industrious
President are not strictly work at all; but if any one had to meet for an hour and a half every
forenoon such Congressmen and Senators as chose to call on him, he would understand that that
was a job involving real work, hard work. They came every day with a grievance, or an appeal,
or a suggestion, or a favor to ask, and he had to treat each one, not only politely, but more
or less deferently. Early in his Administration I heard it said that he offended some Congressmen
by denying their requests in so loud a voice that others in the room could hear him, and this
seemed to some a humiliation. President McKinley, on the other hand, they said, lowered his
voice, and spoke so softly and sweetly that even his refusal did not jar on his visitor, and
was not heard at all by the bystanders. If this happened, I suspect it was because Roosevelt
spoke rather explosively and had a habit of emphasis, and not because he wished in any way
to send his petitioner's rebuff through the room.

Nor was the hour which followed this, when he received general callers, less wearing. As these
persons came from all parts of the Union, so they were of all sorts and temperaments. Here
was a worthy citizen from Colorado who, on the strength of having once heard the President
make a public speech in Denver, claimed immediate friendship with him. Then might come an old
lady from Georgia, who remembered his mother's people there, or the lady from Jacksonville,
Florida, of whom I have already spoken. Once a little boy, who was almost lost in the crush
of grown-up visitors, managed to reach the President. "What can I do for you?" the President
asked; and the boy told how his father had died leaving his mother with a large family and
no money, and how he was selling typewriters to help support her. His mother, he said, would
be most grateful if the President would accept a typewriter from her as a gift. So the President
told the little fellow to go and sit down until the other visitors had passed, and then he
would attend to him. No doubt, the boy left the White House well contented--and richer.

Roosevelt's official day ended at half-past nine or ten in the evening, and then, after the
family had gone to bed, he sat down to read or write, and it was long after midnight, sometimes
one o'clock, some times much later, before he turned in himself. He regarded the preservation
of health as a duty; and well he might so regard it, because in childhood he had been a sickly
boy, with apparently only a life of invalidism to look forward to. But by sheer will, and by
going through physical exercises with indomitable perseverance, he had built up his body until
he was strong enough to engage in all sports and in the hardships of Western life and hunting.
After he became President, he allowed nothing to interfere with his physical exercise. I have
spoken of his long hikes and of his vigorous games with members of the Tennis Cabinet. On many
afternoons he would ride for two hours or more with Mrs. Roosevelt or some friend, and it is
a sad commentary on the perpetual publicity to which the American people condemn their Presidents,
that he sometimes was obliged to ride off into the country with one of his Cabinet Ministers
in order to be able to discuss public matters in private with him. Roosevelt took care to provide
means for exercise indoors in very stormy weather. He had a professional boxer and wrestler
come to him, and when jiu-jitsu, the Japanese system of physical training, was in vogue, he
learned some of its introductory mysteries from one of its foremost professors.

It was in a boxing bout at the White House with his teacher that he lost the sight of an eye
from a blow which injured his eyeball. But he kept this loss secret for many years. He had
a wide acquaintance among professional boxers and even prize-fighters. Jeffries, who had been
a blacksmith before he entered the ring, hammered a penholder out of a horseshoe and gave it
to the President, a gift which Roosevelt greatly prized and showed among his trophies at Oyster
Bay. John L. Sullivan, perhaps the most notorious of the champion prize-fighters of America,
held Roosevelt in such great esteem that when he died his family invited the ex-President to
be one of the pall-bearers. But Mr. Roosevelt was then too sick himself to be able to travel
to Boston and serve.

At Oyster Bay in summer, the President found plenty of exercise on the place. It contained
some eighty acres, part of which was woodland, and there were always trees to be chopped. Hay-making,
also, was an equally severe test of bodily strength, and to pitch hay brought every muscle
into use. There, too, he had water sports, but he always preferred rowing to sailing, which
was too slow and inactive an exercise for him. In old times, rowing used to be the penalty
to which galley-slaves were condemned, but now it is commended by athletes as the best of all
forms of exercise for developing the body and for furnishing stimulating competition.

No President ever lived on better terms with the newspaper men than Roosevelt did. He treated
them all with perfect fairness, according no special favors, no "beats," or "scoops to any
one. So they regarded him as "square"; and further they knew that he was a man of his word,
not to be trifled with. "It is generally supposed," Roosevelt remarked, "that newspaper men
have no sense of honor, but that is not true. If you treat them fairly, they will treat you
fairly; and they will keep a secret if you impress upon them that it must be kept."

The great paradox of Roosevelt's character was the contrast between its fundamental simplicity
and its apparent spectacular quality. His acts seemed to be unusual, striking, and some uncharitable
critics thought that he aimed at effect; in truth, however, he acted at the moment as the impulse
or propriety of the moment suggested. There was no premeditation, no swagger. Dwellers in Berlin
noticed that after William the Crown Prince became the Kaiser William II, he thrust out his
chest and adopted a rather pompous walk, but there was nothing like this in Roosevelt's manner
or carriage. In his public speaking, he gesticulated incessantly, and in the difficulty he
had in pouring out his words as rapidly as the thoughts came to him, he seemed sometimes almost
to grimace; but this was natural, not studied. And so I can easily understand what some one
tells me who saw him almost daily as President in the White House. "Roosevelt," he said, "had
an immense reverence for the Presidential office. He did not feel cocky or conceited at being
himself President; he felt rather the responsibility for dignity which the office carried with
it, and he was humble. You might be as intimate with him as possible, but there was a certain
line which no one ever crossed. That was the line which the office itself drew."

Roosevelt had that reverence for the great men of the past which should stir every heart with
a capacity for noble things. In the White House he never forgot the Presidents who had dwelt
there before him. "I like to see in my mind's eye," he said to Mr. Rhodes, the American historian,
"the gaunt form of Lincoln stalking through these halls." During a visit at the White House,
Mr. Rhodes watched the President at work throughout an entire day and set down the points which
chiefly struck him. Foremost among these was the lack of leisure which we allow our Presidents.
They have work to do which is more important than that of a railroad manager, or the president
of the largest business corporation, or of the leader of the American Bar. They are expected
to know the pros and cons of each bill brought before them to sign so that they can sign it
not only intelligently but justly, and yet thanks to the constant intrusion which Americans
deem it their right to force on the President, he has no time for deliberation, and, as I have
said, Mr. Roosevelt was often obliged, when he wished to have an undisturbed consultation with
one of his Cabinet Secretaries, to take him off on a long ride.

"I chanced to be in the President's room," Mr. Rhodes continues, "when he dictated the rough
draft of his famous dispatch to General Chaffee respecting torture in the Philippines. While
he was dictating, two or three cards were brought in, also some books with a request for the
President's autograph, and there were some other interruptions. While the dispatch as it went
out in its revised form could not be improved, a President cannot expect to be always so happy
in dictating dispatches in the midst of distractions. Office work of far-reaching importance
should be done in the closet. Certainly no monarch or minister in Europe does administrative
work under such unfavorable conditions; indeed, this public which exacts so much of the President's
time should in all fairness be considerate in its criticism." *

* Rhodes: Historical Essays, 238-39.

To cope in some measure with the vast amount of business thrust upon him, Roosevelt had unique
endowments. Other Presidents had been indolent and let affairs drift; he cleared his desk every
day. Other Presidents felt that they had done their duty if they merely dispatched the important
business which came to them; Roosevelt was always initiating, either new legislation or new
methods in matters which did not concern the Government. One autumn, when there was unusual
excitement, with recriminations in disputes in the college football world, I was surprised
to receive a large four-page typewritten letter, giving his views as to what ought to be done.

He reorganized the service in the White House, and not only that, he had the Executive Mansion
itself remodeled somewhat according to the original plans so as to furnish adequate space for
the crowds who thronged the official receptions, and, at the other end of the building, proper
quarters for the stenographers, typewriters, and telegraphers required to file and dispatch
his correspondence. Promptness was his watchword, and in cases where it was expected, I never
knew twenty-four hours to elapse before he dictated his reply to a letter.

The orderliness which he introduced into the White House should also be recorded. When I first
went there in 1882 with a party of Philadelphia junketers who had an appointment to shake hands
with President Arthur, as a preliminary to securing a fat appropriation to the River and Harbor
Bill of that year, the White House was treated by the public very much as a common resort.
The country owned it: therefore, why shouldn't any American make himself at home in it? I remember
that on one of the staircases, Dr. Mary Walker (recently dead), dressed in what she was pleased
to regard as a masculine costume, was haranguing a group of five or six strangers, and here
and there in the corridors we met other random visitors. Mr. Roosevelt established a strict
but simple regimen. No one got past the Civil War veteran who acted as doorkeeper without proper
credentials; and it was impossible to reach the President himself without first encountering
his Secretary, Mr. Loeb.

To the President some persons were, of course, privileged. If an old pal from the West, or
a Rough Rider came, the President did not look at the clock, or speed him away. The story goes
that one morning Senator Cullom came on a matter of business and indeed rather in a hurry.
On asking who was "in there," and being told that a Rough Rider had been with the President
for a half-hour, the Senator said, "Then there's no hope for me," took his hat, and departed.

Although, as I have said, Roosevelt might be as intimate and cordial as possible with any visitor,
he never forgot the dignity which belonged to his office. Nor did he forget that as President
he was socially as well as officially the first person in the Republic. In speaking of these
social affairs, I must not pass over without mention the unfailing help which his two sisters
gave him at all times. The elder, the wife of Admiral William S. Cowles, lived in Washington
when Roosevelt was Civil Service Commissioner, and her house was always in readiness for his use.

His younger sister, Mrs. Douglas Robinson, lived in New York City, and first at No. 422 Madison
Avenue and later at No. 9 East Sixty-third Street, she dispensed hospitality for him and his
friends. Nothing could have been more convenient. If he were at Oyster Bay, it was often impossible
to make an appointment to meet there persons whom he wished to see, but he had merely to telephone
to Mrs. Robinson, the appointment was made, and the interview was held. It was at her house
that many of the breakfasts with Senator Platt--those meetings which caused so much alarm and
suspicion among over-righteous reformers--took place while Roosevelt was Governor. Mr. Odell
nearly always accompanied the Senator, as if he felt afraid to trust the astute Boss with the
very persuasive young Governor. Having Mrs. Robinson's house as a shelter, Theodore could screen
himself from the newspaper men. There he could hold private consultations which, if they had
been referred to in the papers, would have caused wild guesses, surmises, and embarrassing
remarks. His sisters always rejoiced that, with his wonderful generosity of nature, he took
them often into his political confidence, and listened with unfeigned respect to their point
of view on subjects on which they might even have a slight difference of opinion.

Mr. Charles G. Washburn tells the following story to illustrate Roosevelt's faculty of getting
to the heart of every one whom he knew. When he was hunting in Colorado, "he met a cowboy who
had been with him with the Rough Riders in Cuba. The man came up to speak to Roosevelt, and
said, 'Mr. President, I have been in jail a year for killing a gentleman.' 'How did you do
it?' asked the President, meaning to inquire as to the circumstances. 'Thirty-eight on a forty-five
frame,' replied the man, thinking that the only interest the President had was that of a comrade
who wanted to know with what kind of a tool the trick was done. Now, I will venture to say
that to no other President, from Washington down to and including Wilson, would the man-killer
have made that response." *

* Washburn, 202-03.

I think that all of us will agree with Mr. Washburn, who adds another story of the same purport,
and told by Roosevelt himself. Another old comrade wrote him from jail in Arizona: "Dear Colonel:
I am in trouble. I shot a lady in the eye, but I did not intend to hit the lady; I was shooting
at my wife." Roosevelt had large charity for sinners of this type, but he would not tolerate
deceit or lying. Thus, when a Congressman made charges to him against one of the Wild Western
appointees whom he accused of drinking and of gambling, the President remarked that he had
to take into consideration the moral standards of the section, where a man who gambled or who
drank was not necessarily an evil person. Then the Congressman pressed his charges and said
that the fellow had been in prison for a crime a good many years before. This roused Roosevelt,
who said, "He never told me about that," and he immediately telegraphed the accused for an
explanation. The man replied that the charge was true, whereupon the President at once dismissed
him, not for gambling or for drinking, but for trying to hide the fact that he had once been
in jail.

In these days of upheaval, when the most ancient institutions and laws are put in question,
and anarchists and Bolshevists, blind like Samson, wish to throw down the very pillars on which
Civilization rests, the Family, the fundamental element of civilized life, is also violently
attacked. All the more precious, therefore, will Theodore Roosevelt's example be, as an upholder
of the Family. He showed how essential it is for the development of the individual and as a
pattern for Society. Only through the Family can come the deepest joys of life and can the
most intimate duties be transmuted into joys. As son, as husband, as father, as brother, he
fulfilled the ideals of each of those relations, and, so strong was his family affection, that,
while still a comparatively young man, he drew to him as a patriarch might, not only his own
children, but his kindred in many degrees. With utter truth he wrote, "I have had the happiest
home life of any man I have ever known." And that, as we who were his friends understood, was
to him the highest and dearest prize which life could bestow.

CHAPTER XVIII. Hits And Misses

In this sketch I do not attempt to follow chronological order, except in so far as this is
necessary to make clear the connection between lines of policy, or to define the structural
growth of character. But in Roosevelt's life, as in the lives of all of us, many events, sometimes
important events, occurred and had much notice at the moment and then faded away and left no
lasting mark. Let us take up a few of these which reveal the President from different angles.

Since the close of the Civil War the Negro Question had brooded over the South. The war emancipated
the Southern negroes and then politics came to embitter the question. Partly to gain a political
advantage, partly as some visionaries believed, to do justice, and partly to punish the Southerners,
the Northern Republicans gave the Southern negroes equal political rights with the whites.
They even handed over the government of some of the States to wholly incompetent blacks. In
self-defense the whites terrorized the blacks through such secret organizations as the Ku-Klux
Klan, and recovered their ascendancy in governing. Later, by such specious devices as the Grandfathers'
Law, they prevented most of the blacks from voting, and relieved themselves of the trouble
of maintaining a system of intimidation. The real difficulty being social and racial, to mix
politics with it was to envenom it.

Roosevelt took a man for what he was without regard to race, creed, or color. He held that
a negro of good manners and education ought to be treated as a white man would be treated.
He felt keenly the sting of ostracism and he believed that if the Southern whites would think
as he did on this matter; they might the quicker solve the Negro Question and establish human
if not friendly relations with the blacks.

The negro race at that time had a fine spokesman in Booker T. Washington, a man who had been
born a slave, was educated at the Hampton Institute, served as teacher there, and then founded
the Tuskegee Institute for teaching negroes. He wisely saw that the first thing to be done
was to teach them trades and farming, by which they could earn a living and make themselves
useful if not indispensable to the communities in which they settled. He did not propose to
start off to lift his race by letting them imagine that they could blossom into black Shakespeares
and dusky Raphaels in a single generation. He himself was a man of tact, prudence, and sagacity
with trained intelligence and a natural gift of speaking.

To him President Roosevelt turned for some suggestions as to appointing colored persons to
offices in the South. It happened that on the day appointed for a meeting Washington reached
the White House shortly before luncheon time, and that, as they had not finished their conference,
Roosevelt asked him to stay to luncheon. Washington hesitated politely. Roosevelt insisted.
They lunched, finished their business, and Washington went away. When this perfectly insignificant
fact was published in the papers the next morning, the South burst into a storm of indignation
and abuse. Some of the Southern journals saw, in what was a mere routine incident, a terrible
portent, foreboding that Roosevelt planned to put the negroes back to control the Southern
whites. Others alleged the milder motive that he was fishing for negro votes. The common type
of fire-eaters saw in it one of Roosevelt's unpleasant ways of having fun by insulting the
South. And Southern cartoonists took an ignoble, feeble retaliation by caricaturing even Mrs.
Roosevelt.

The President did not reply publicly. As his invitation to Booker Washington was wholly unpremeditated,
he was surprised by the rage which it caused among Southerners. But he was clear-sighted enough
to understand that, without intending it, he had made a mistake, and this he never repeated.
Nothing is more elusive than racial antipathy, and we need not wonder that a man like Roosevelt
who, although he was most solicitous not to hurt persons' feelings and usually acted, unless
he had proof to the contrary, on the assumption that everybody was blessed with a modicum of
good-will and common sense, should not always be able to foresee the strange inconsistencies
into which the antipathy of the white Southerners for the blacks might lead. A little while
later there was a religious gathering in Washington of Protestant-Episcopal ministers. They
had a reception at the White House. Their own managers made out a list of ministers to be invited,
and among the guests were a negro archdeacon and his wife, and the negro rector of a Maryland
parish. Although these persons attended the reception, the Southern whites burst into no frenzy
of indignation against the President. Who could steer safely amid such shoals? * The truth
is that no President since Lincoln had a kindlier feeling towards the South than Roosevelt
had. He often referred proudly to the fact that his mother came from Georgia, and that his
two Bulloch uncles fought in the Confederate Navy. He wished to bring back complete friendship
between the sections. But he understood the difficulties, as his explanation to Mr. James Ford
Rhodes, the historian, in 1905, amply proved. He agreed fully as to the folly of the Congressional
scheme of reconstruction based on universal negro suffrage, but he begged Mr. Rhodes not to
forget that the initial folly lay with the Southerners themselves. The latter said, quite properly,
that he did not wonder that much bitterness still remained in the breasts of the Southern people
about the carpet-bag negro regime. So it was not to be wondered at that in the late sixties
much bitterness should have remained in the hearts of the Northerners over the remembrance
of the senseless folly and wickedness of the Southerners in the early sixties. Roosevelt felt
that those persons who most heartily agreed that as it was the presence of the negro which
made the problem, and that slavery was merely the worst possible method of solving it, we must
therefore hold up to reprobation, as guilty of doing one of the worst deeds which history records,
those men who tried to break up this Union because they were not allowed to bring slavery and
the negro into our new territory. Every step which followed, from freeing the slave to enfranchising
him, was due only to the North being slowly and reluctantly forced to act by the South's persistence
in its folly and wickedness.

* Leupp,231.

The President could not say these things in public because they tended, when coming from a
man in public place, to embitter people. But Rhodes was writing what Roosevelt hoped would
prove the great permanent history of the period, and he said that it would be a misfortune
for the country, and especially a misfortune for the South, if they were allowed to confuse
right and wrong in perspective. He added that his difficulties with the Southern people had
come not from the North, but from the South. He had never done anything that was not for their
interest. At present, he added, they were, as a whole, speaking well of him. When they would
begin again to speak ill, he did not know, but in either case his duty was equally clear. *

* February 20, 1905.

Inviting Booker Washington to the White House was a counsel of perfection which we must consider
one of Roosevelt's misses. Quite different was the voyage of the Great Fleet, planned by him
and carried out without hitch or delay.

We have seen that from his interest in American naval history, which began before he left Harvard,
he came to take a very deep interest in the Navy itself, and when he was Assistant Secretary,
he worked night and day to complete its preparation for entering the Spanish War. From the
time he became President, he urged upon Congress and the country the need of maintaining a
fleet adequate to ward off any dangers to which we might be exposed. In season and out of season
he preached, with the ardor of a propagandist, his gospel that the Navy is the surest guarantor
of peace which this country possesses. By dint of urging he persuaded Congress to consent to
lay down one battleship of the newest type a year. Congress was not so much reluctant as indifferent.
Even the lesson of the Spanish War failed to teach the Nation's law-makers, or the Nation itself,
that we must have a Navy to protect us if we intended to play the role of a World Power. The
American people instinctively dreaded militarism, and so they resisted consenting to naval
or military preparations which might expand into a great evil such as they saw controlling
the nations of Europe.

Nevertheless Roosevelt, as usual, could not be deterred by opposition; and when the Hague Conference
in 1907, through the veto of Germany, refused to limit armaments by sea and land, he warned
Congress that one new battleship a year would not do, that they must build four. Meanwhile,
he had pushed to completion a really formidable American Fleet, which assembled in Hampton
Roads on December 1, 1907, and ten days later weighed anchor for parts unknown. There were
sixteen battleships, commanded by Rear Admiral Robley D. Evans. Every ship was new, having
been built since the Spanish War. The President and Mrs. Roosevelt and many notables reviewed
the Fleet from the President's yacht Mayflower, as it passed out to sea. Later, the country
learned that the Fleet was to sail round Cape Horn, to New Zealand and Australia, up the Pacific
to San Francisco, then across to Japan, and so steer homeward through the Indian Ocean, the
Suez Canal, and the Mediterranean to Gibraltar, across the Atlantic, and back to Hampton Roads.

The American public did not quite know what to make of this dramatic gesture. Roosevelt's critics
said, of course, that it was the first overt display of his combativeness, and that from this
he would go on to create a great army and be ready, at the slightest provocation, to attack
any foreign Power. In fact, however, the sending of the Great Fleet, which was wholly his project,
was designed by him to strengthen the prospect of peace for the United States. Through it,
he gave a concrete illustration of his maxim: "Speak softly, but carry a big stick." The Panama
Canal was then half dug and would be finished in a few years. Distant nations thought of this
country as of a land peopled by dollar-chasers, too absorbed in getting rich to think of providing
defense for themselves. The fame of Dewey's exploit at Manila Bay had ceased to strike wonder
among foreign peoples, after they heard how small and almost contemptible, judging by the new
standards, the Squadron was by which he won his victory. Japan, the rising young giant of the
Orient, felt already strong enough to resent any supposed insult from the United States. Germany
had embarked on her wild naval policy of creating a fleet which would soon be able to cope
with that of England.

When, however, the Great Fleet steamed into Yokohama or Bombay or any other port, it furnished
a visible evidence of the power of the country from which it came. We could not send an army
to furnish the same object-lesson. But the Fleet must have opened the eyes of any foreign jingoes
who supposed that they might send over with impunity their battleships and attack our ports.
In this way it served directly to discourage war against us, and accordingly it was a powerful
agent for peace. Spectacular the voyage was without question, like so many of Roosevelt's acts,
but if you analyze it soberly, do you not admit that it was the one obvious, simple way by
which to impress upon an uncertain and rapacious world the fact that the United States had
manpower as well as money-power, and that they were prepared to repel all enemies?

On February 22, 1909, the White Fleet steamed back to Hampton Roads and was received by President
Roosevelt. It had performed a great moral achievement. It had also raised the efficiency of
its officers and the discipline of its crews to the highest point. There had been no accident;
not a scratch on any ship.

"Isn't it magnificent?" said Roosevelt, as he toasted the Admirals and Captains in the cabin
of the Mayflower. "Nobody after this will forget that the American coast is on the Pacific
as well as on the Atlantic." Ten days later he left the White House, and after he left, the
prestige of the American Fleet was slowly frittered away.

So important is it, if we would form a just estimate of Roosevelt, to understand his attitude
towards war, that I must refer to the subject briefly here. One of the most authoritative observers
of international politics now living, a man who has also had the best opportunity for studying
the chief statesmen of our age, wrote me after Roosevelt's death: "I deeply grieve with you
in the loss of our friend. He was an extraordinary man. The only point in which I ever found
myself seriously differing from him was in the value he set upon war. He did not seem to realize
how great an evil it is, and in how many ways, fascinated as he was by the virtues which it
sometimes called out; but in this respect, also, I think his views expanded and mellowed as
time went on. His mind was so capacious as to take in Old-World affairs in a sense which very
few people outside Europe, since Hamilton, have been able to do."

Now the truth is that neither the eminent person who wrote this letter, nor many others among
us, saw as clearly during the first decade of this century as Roosevelt saw that war was not
a remote possibility, but a very real danger. I think that he was almost the first in the United
States to feel the menace of Germany to the entire world. He knew the strength of her army,
and when she began to build rapidly a powerful navy, he understood that the likelihood of her
breaking the peace was more than doubled; for with the fleet she could at pleasure go up and
down the seas, picking quarrels as she went. If war came on a great scale in Europe, our Republic
would probably be involved; we should either take sides and so have to furnish a contingent,
or we should restrict our operations to self-defense. In either case we must be prepared.

But Roosevelt recognized also that on the completion of the Panama Canal we might be exposed
to much international friction, and unless we were ready to defend the Canal and its approaches,
a Foreign Power might easily do it great damage or wrest it from us, at least for a time. Here,
too, was another motive for facing the possibility of war. We were growing up in almost childish
trust in a world filled with warlike nations, which regarded war not only as the obvious way
in which to settle disputes, but as the easiest way to seize the territory and the wealth of
rich neighbors who could not defend themselves.

This being the condition of life as our country had to lead it, we were criminally remiss in
not taking precautions. But Roosevelt went farther than this; he believed that, war or no war,
a nation must be able to defend itself; so must every individual be. Every youth should have
sufficient military training to fit him to take his place at a moment's notice in the national
armament. This did not mean the maintenance of a large standing army, or the adoption of a
soul and character-killing system of militarism like the German. It meant giving training to
every youth who was physically sound which would develop and strengthen his body, teach him
obedience, and impress upon him his patriotic duty to his country.

I was among those who, twenty years ago, feared that Roosevelt's projects were inspired by
innate pugnacity which he could not outgrow. Now, in this year of his death, I recognize that
he was right, and I believe that there is no one, on whom the lesson of the Atrocious War has
not been lost, who does not believe in his gospel of military training, both for its value
in promoting physical fitness and health and in providing the country with competent defenders.
Roosevelt detested as much as anyone the horrors of war, but, as he had too much reason to
remind the American people shortly before his death, there are things worse than war. And when
in 1919 President Charles W. Eliot becomes the chief advocate of universal military training,
we need not fear that it is synonymous with militarism.

On one subject--a protective tariff--I think that Roosevelt was less satisfactory than on any
other. At Harvard, in our college days, John Stuart Mill's ideas on economics prevailed, and
they were ably expounded by Charles F. Dunbar, who then stood first among American economists.
Being a consistent Individualist, and believing that liberty is a principle which applies to
commerce, not less than to intellectual and moral freedom, Mill, of course, insisted on Free
Trade. But after Roosevelt joined the Republican Party--in the straw vote for President, in
1880, he had voted like a large majority of undergraduates for Bayard, a Democrat--he adopted
Protection as the right principle in theory and in practice. The teachings of Alexander Hamilton,
the wonderful spokesman of Federalism, the champion of a strong Government which should be
beneficent because it was unselfish and enlightened, captivated and filled him. In 1886, in
his Life of Benton, he wrote: "Free traders are apt to look at the tariff from a sentimental
standpoint; but it is in reality a purely business matter and should be decided solely on grounds
of expediency. Political economists have pretty generally agreed that protection is vicious
in theory and harmful in practice; but if the majority of the people in interest wish it, and
it affects only themselves, there is no earthly reason why they should not be allowed to try
the experiment to their heart's content." *

* Roosevelt: Thomas H. Benton, 67. American Statesmen Series.

Perhaps we ought to infer from this extract that Roosevelt, as an historical critic, strove
to preserve an open mind; as an ardent Republican, however, he never wavered in his support
of the tariff. Even his sense of humor permitted him to swallow with out a smile the demagogue's
cant about "infant industries," or the raising of the tariff after election by the Republicans
who had promised to reduce it. To those of us who for many years regarded the tariff as the
dividing line between the parties, his stand was most disappointing. And when the head of one
of the chief Trusts in America cynically blurted out, "The Tariff is the mother of Trusts,"
we hoped that Roosevelt, who had then begun his stupendous battle with the Trusts, would deal
them a staggering blow by shattering the tariff. But, greatly to our chagrin, he did nothing.

His enemies tried to explain his callousness to this reform by hinting that he had some personal
interest at stake, or that he was under obligations to tariff magnates. Nothing could be more
absurd than these innuendoes; from the first of his career to the last, no man ever brought
proof that he had directly or indirectly secured Roosevelt's backing by question able means.
And there were times enough when passions ran so high that any one who could produce an iota
of such testimony would have done so. The simple fact is, that in looking over the field of
important questions which Roosevelt believed must be met by new legislation, he looked on the
tariff as unimportant in comparison with railroads, and conservation, and the measures for
public health. I think, also, that he never studied the question thoroughly; he threw over
Mill's Individualism early in his public career and with it went Mill's political economy.
As late as December, 1912, after the affronting Payne Aldrich Tariff Act had been passed under
his Republican successor, I reminded Roosevelt that I had never voted for him because I did
not approve of his tariff policy. To which he replied, almost in the words of the Benton extract
in 1886, "My dear boy, the tariff is only a question of expediency."

In this field also I fear that we must score a miss against him.

Cavour used to say that he did not need to resort to craft, which was supposed to be a statesman's
favorite instrument, he simply told the truth and everybody was deceived. Roosevelt might have
said the same thing. His critics were always on the look out for some ulterior motive, some
trick, or cunning thrust, in what he did; consequently they misjudged him, for he usually did
the most direct thing in the most direct way.

The Brownsville Affair proved this. On the night of August 13, 1906, several colored soldiers
stationed at Fort Brown, Texas, stole from their quarters into the near-by town of Brownsville
and shot up the inhabitants, against whom they had a grudge. As soon as the news of the outbreak
reached the fort, the rest of the colored garrison was called out to quell it, and the guilty
soldiers, under cover of darkness, joined their companions and were undiscovered. Next day
the commander began an investigation, but as none of the culprits confessed, the President
discharged nearly all of the three companies. There upon his critics insinuated that Roosevelt
had indulged his race hatred of the blacks; a few years before, many of these same critics
had accused him of wishing to insult the Southern whites by inviting Booker Washington to lunch.
The reason for his action with the Brownsville criminals was so clear that it did not need
to be stated. He intended that every soldier or sailor who wore the uniform of the United States,
be he white, yellow, or black, should not be allowed to sully that uniform and go unpunished.
He felt the stain on the service keenly; in spite of denunciation he trusted that the common
sense of the Nation would eventually uphold him, as it did.

A few months later he came to Cambridge to make his famous "Mollycoddle Speech," and in greeting
him, three or four of us asked him jokingly, "How about Brownsville?" "Brownsville?" he replied,
laughing; "Brownsville will soon be forgotten, but 'Dear Maria' will stick to me all my life."
This referred to another annoyance which had recently bothered him. He had always been used
to talk among friends about public matters and persons with amazing unreserve. He took it for
granted that those to whom he spoke would regard his frank remarks as confidential; being honorable
himself, he assumed a similar sense of honor in his listeners. In one instance, however, he
was deceived. Among the guests at the White House were a gentleman and his wife. The latter
was a convert to Roman Catholicism, and she had not only all the proverbial zeal of a convert,
but an amount of indiscretion which seems incredible in any one. She often led the conversation
to Roman Catholic subjects, and especially to the discussion of who was likely to be the next
American Cardinal. President Roosevelt had great respect for Archbishop Ireland, and he said,
frankly, that he should be glad to see the red hat go to him. The lady's husband was appointed
to a foreign Embassy, and they were both soon thrown into an Ultramontane atmosphere, where
clerical intrigues had long furnished one of the chief amusements of a vapid and corrupt Court.
The lady, who, of course, could not have realized the impropriety, made known the President's
regard for Archbishop Ireland. She even had letters to herself beginning "Dear Maria," to prove
the intimate terms on which she and her husband stood with Mr. Roosevelt, and to suggest how
important a personage she was in his estimation. Assured, as she thought, of her influence
in Washington, she seems also to have aspired to equal influence in the Vatican. That would
not be the first occasion on which Cardinals' hats had been bestowed through the benign feminine
intercession. Reports from Rome were favorable; Archbishop Ireland's prospects looked rosy.

But the post of Cardinal is so eminent that there are always several candidates for each vacancy.
I do not know whether or not it came about through one of Archbishop Ireland's rivals, or through
"Dear Maria's" own indiscretion, but the fact leaked out that President Roosevelt was personally
interested in Archbishop Ireland's success. That settled the Archbishop. The Hierarchy would
never consent to be influenced by an American President, who was also a Protestant. It might
take instructions from the Emperor of Austria or the King of Spain; it had even allowed the
German Kaiser, also a Protestant, indirectly but effectually to block the election of Cardinal
Rampolla to be Pope in 1903; but the hint that the Archbishop of St. Paul, Minnesota, might
be made Cardinal because the American President respected him, could not be tolerated. The
President's letters beginning "Dear Maria" went gayly through the newspapers of the world,
and the man in the street everywhere wondered how Roosevelt could have been so indiscreet as
to have trusted so imprudent a zealot. "Dear Maria" and her husband were recalled from their
Embassy and put out of reach of committing further indiscretions of that sort. Archbishop Ireland
never became Cardinal. In spite of the President's forebodings, the "Dear Maria" incident did
not cling to him all his life, but sank into oblivion, while the world, busied with matters
of real importance, rushed on towards a great catastrophe. Proofs that a man or a woman can
do very foolish things are so common that "Dear Maria" could not win lasting fame by hers.
I do not think, however, that this experience taught Roosevelt reticence. He did not lose his
faith that a sense of honor was widespread, and would silence the tongues of the persons whom
he talked to in confidence.

No President ever spoke so openly to newspaper men as he did. He told them many a secret with
only the warning, "Mind, this is private," and none of them betrayed him. When he entered the
White House he gathered all the newspaper men round him, and said that no mention was to be
made of Mrs. Roosevelt, or of any detail of their family life, while they lived there. If this
rule were broken, he would refuse for the rest of his term to allow the representative of the
paper which published the unwarranted report to enter the White House, or to receive any of
the President's communications. This rule also was religiously observed, with the result that
Mrs. Roosevelt was spared the disgust and indignity of a vulgar publicity, which had thrown
its lurid light on more than one "First Lady of the Land" in previous administrations, and
even on the innocent Baby McKee, President Harrison's grand-child.

We cannot too often bear in mind that Theodore Roosevelt never forgot the Oneness of Society.
If he aimed at correcting an industrial or financial abuse by special laws. he knew that this
work could be partial only. It might promote the health of the entire body, but it was not
equivalent to sanifying that entire body. There was no general remedy. A plaster applied to
a skin cut does not cure an internal disease. But he watched the unexpected effects of laws
and saw how that influence spread from one field to another.

Roosevelt traced closely the course of Law and Custom to their ultimate objects, the family
and the individual. In discussing the matter with Mr. Rhodes he cordially agreed with what
the historian said about our American rich men. He insisted that the same thing held true of
our politicians, even the worst: that the average Roman rich man, like the average Roman public
man, of the end of the Republic and of the beginning of the Empire, makes the corresponding
man of our own time look like a self-denying, conscientious Puritan. He did not think very
highly of the American multi-millionaire, nor of his wife, sons, and daughters when compared
with some other types of our citizens; even in ability the plutocrat did not seem to Roosevelt
to show up very strongly save in his own narrowly limited field; and he and his womanhood,
and those of less fortune who modeled their lives upon his and upon the lives of his wife and
children, struck Roosevelt as taking very little advantage of their opportunities. But to denounce
them with hysterical exaggeration as resembling the unspeakable tyrants and debauchees of classic
times, was simple nonsense. Roosevelt hoped he had been of some assistance in moving our people
along the line Mr. Rhodes mentioned; that is, along the line of a sane, moderate purpose to
supervise the business use of wealth and to curb its excesses, while keeping as far aloof from
the policy of the visionary and demagogue as from the policy of the wealthy corruptionist.

CHAPTER XIX. CHOOSING HIS SUCCESSOR

Critics frequently remark that Roosevelt was the most masterful politician of his time, and
what we have already seen of his career should justify this assertion. We need, however, to
define what we mean by "politician." Boss Platt, of New York, was a politician, but far removed
from Roosevelt. Platt and all similar dishonest manipulators of voters--and the dishonesty
took many forms--held their power, not by principles, but by exerting an unprincipled influence
over the masses who supported them. Roosevelt, on the other hand, was a great politician because
he saw earlier than most men certain fundamental principles which he resolved to carry through
whether the Bosses or their supporters liked it or not. In a word he believed in principles
rather than in men. He was a statesman, and like the statesman he understood that half a loaf
is often better than no bread and that, though he must often compromise and conciliate, he
must surrender nothing essential.

As a result, his career as Assemblyman, as Civil Service Commissioner, as Police Commissioner
of New York City, as Governor of New York State, and as President, seems a continuous rising
scale of success. We see the achievement which swallows up the baffling difficulties and the
stubborn opposition. These we must always remember if we would measure the extent of the victory.
It was Roosevelt's persistence and his refusal to be baffled or turned aside which really made
him seem to triumph in all his work.

He never doubted, as I have often said, the necessity of party organization in our political
system, although he recognized the tendency to corruption in it, the unreasoning loyalty which
it bred and its substitution of Party for Country in its teaching. He had known something of
political machine methods at Albany. After he became President, he knew them through and through
as they were practiced on national proportions at Washington. The Machine had hoped to shelve
him by making him Vice President, and in spite of it he suddenly emerged as President. This
confrontation would have been embarrassing on both sides if Roosevelt had not displayed unexpected
tact. He avowed his purpose of carrying out McKinley's policies and he kept it faithfully,
thus relieving the Machine of much anxiety. By his straightforwardness he even won the approval
of Boss Quay, the lifelong political bandit from Pennsylvania, who went to him and said in
substance: 'I believe that you are square and I will stand by you until you prove otherwise.'
Roosevelt made no bargain, but like a sensible man he did not forbid Quay from voting on his
side. Personally, also, Quay's lack of hypocrisy attracted him; for Quay never pretended that
he was in politics to promote the Golden Rule and he had skirted so close to the Penal Code
that he knew how it looked and how he could evade it. Senator Hanna, the Ohio political Boss,
who had made McKinley President by ways which cannot all be documented except by persons who
have examined the Recording Angel's book (and research students of that original source never
return), was another towering figure whom Roosevelt had to get along with. He found out how
to do it, and to do it so amicably that it was reported that he breakfasted often with the
Ohio Senator and that they even ate griddle-cakes and scrapple together. The Senator evidently
no more understood the alert and fascinating young President than we under stand what is going
on in the brain of a playful young tiger, but instinct warned him that this mysterious young
creature, electrified by a thousand talents, was dangerous and must be held down. And so with
the other members of the Republican Machine which ran both Houses of Congress and expected
to run the undisciplined President too. Roosevelt studied them all and discovered how to deal
with each.

At the beginning of the year 1904, everybody began to discuss the next Presidential campaign.
Who should be the Republican candidate? The President, naturally, wished to be elected and
thereby to hold the office in his own right and not by the chance of assassination. Senator
Hanna surprised many of the politicians by bagging a good many delegates for himself. He probably
did not desire to be President; like Warwick he preferred the glory of king-maker to that of
king; but he was a shrewd business man who knew the value of having goods which, although he
did not care for them himself, he might exchange for others. I doubt whether he deluded himself
into supposing that the American people would elect so conspicuous a representative of the
Big Interests as he was, to be President, but he knew that the fortunes of candidates in political
conventions are uncertain, and that if he had a considerable body of delegates to swing from
one man to another, he might, if his choice won, become the power behind the new throne as
he had been behind McKinley's. And if we could suspect him of humor he may have enjoyed fun
to a mild degree in keeping the irrepressible Roosevelt in a state of suspense.

Senator Hanna's death, however, in March, 1904, removed the only competitor whom Roosevelt
could have regarded as dangerous. Thenceforth he held the field, and yet, farseeing politician
though he was, he did not feel sure. The Convention at Chicago nominated him, virtually, by
acclamation. In the following months of a rather slow campaign he had fits of depression, although
all signs pointed to his success. Talking with Hay as late as October 30, he said: "It seems
a cheap sort of thing to say, and I would not say it to other people, but laying aside my own
great personal interests and hopes,-- for of course I desire intensely to succeed,--I have
the greatest pride that in this fight we are not only making it on clearly avowed principles,
but we have the principles and the record to avow. How can I help being a little proud when
I contrast the men and the considerations by which I am attacked, and those by which I am defended?"
*

* W. R. Thayer: John Hay, II, 356, 357.

Just at the end, the campaign was enlivened by the attack which the Democratic candidate, Judge
Alton B. Parker, made upon his opponent. He charged that Mr. Cortelyou, the manager of the
Republican campaign, had received great sums of money from the Big Interests, and that he had,
indeed, been appointed manager because, from his previous experience as Secretary of the Department
of Commerce, he had special information in regard to malefactors of great wealth which would
enable him to coerce them to good purpose for the Republican Corruption Fund. President Roosevelt
published a letter denying Judge Parker's statements as "unqualifiedly and atrociously false."
If Judge Parker's attack had any effect on the election it was to reduce his own votes. Later,
Edward H. Harriman, the railroad magnate, tried to smirch Roosevelt by accusing him of seeking
Harriman's help in 1904, but this charge also was never sustained.

At the election on November 8, Roosevelt had a majority of nearly two million and a half votes
out of thirteen million and a half cast, thus securing by large odds the greatest popular majority
any President has had. The Electoral College gave him 336 votes and Parker 140. Those who heard
this statement, or who had talked the matter over with Roosevelt, under stood that he had in
mind a renomination in 1908, but many persons regarded it as his final renunciation of ever
being a candidate for the Presidency. And later, when circumstances quite altered the situation,
this "promise" was revived to plague him.

>From March 4, 1905, he was President "in his own right." Behind him stood the American people,
and he was justified in regarding himself, at that time, as the most popular President since
Washington. The unprecedented majority of votes he had received at the election proved that,
and proved also that the country believed in "his policies." So he might go ahead to carry
out and to extend the general reforms which he had embarked on against much opposition. No
one could question that he had a mandate from the people, and during his second term he was
still more aggressive.

Now, however, came the little rift which widened and widened and at last opened a great chasm
between Roosevelt and the people on one side and the Machine dominators of the Republican Party
on the other. For although Roosevelt was the choice of the Republicans and of migratory voters
from other parties, although he was, in fact, the idol of millions who supported him, the Republican
Machine insisted on ruling. Before an election, the Machine consents to a candidate who can
win, but after he has been elected the. Machine instinctively acts as his master. A strong
man, like President Cleveland, may hold out against the Bosses of his party, but the penalty
he has to pay is to find himself bereft of support and his party shattered. This might have
happened in Roosevelt's case also, if he had not been more tactful than Cleveland was in dealing
with his enemies.

He now had to learn the bitter knowledge of the trials which beset a President whose vision
outsoars that of the practical rulers of his party. In the House of Representatives there was
a little group led by the Speaker, Joseph G. Cannon, of Illinois, who controlled that part
of Congress with despotic arrogance. In the Senate there was a similar group of political oligarchs,
called the Steering Committee, which decided what questions should be discussed, what bills
should be killed, and what others should be passed. Aldrich, of Rhode Island, headed this.
A multi-millionaire himself, he was the particular advocate of the Big Interests. Next came
Allison, of Iowa, an original Republican, who entered Congress in 1863 and remained there for
the rest of his life, a hide-bound party man, personally honest and sufficiently prominent
to be "talked of" for Vice President on several occasions. He was rather the peacemaker of
the Steering Committee, having the art of reconciling antagonists and of smoothing annoying
angles. A little older, was Orville H. Platt, the Senator from Connecticut who died in 1905,
and was esteemed a model of virtue among the Senators of his time. As an offset to the men
of threescore and ten and over was Albert J. Beveridge, the young Senator from Indiana, vigorous,
eloquent, fearless, and radical, whose mind and heart were consecrated to Roosevelt. Beveridge,
at least, had no ties, secret or open, with the Trusts, or the Interests, or Wall Street; on
the contrary, he attacked them fiercely, and among other Anti-Trust legislation he drove through
the Meat Inspection Bill. How he managed to get on with the gray wolves of the Committee it
would be interesting to hear; but we must rid ourselves of the notion that those gray wolves
sought personal profit in money by their steering. None of them was charged with using his
position for the benefit of his purse. Power was what those politicians desired; Power, which
gave them the opportunity to make the political tenets of their party prevail. Orville Platt,
or Allison, regarded Republicanism with al most religious fanaticism; and we need not search
far in history to find fanatics who were personally very good and tender-hearted men, but who
would put heretics to death with a smile of pious satisfaction.

Roosevelt's task was to persuade the Steering Committee to support him in as many of his Radical
measures as he could. They had done this during his first Administration, partly because they
did not see whither he was leading. Senator Hanna, then a member of the Steering Committee,
attempted to steady all Republicans who seemed likely to be seduced by Roosevelt's subversive
novelties by telling them to "stand pat," and, as we look back now, the Senator from Ohio with
his stand-pattism broom reminds us of the portly Mrs. Partington trying to sweep back the inflowing
Atlantic Ocean. During the second Administration, however, no one could plead ignorance or
surprise when Roosevelt urged on new projects. He made no secret of his policies, and he could
not have disguised, if he would, the fact that he was thorough. By a natural tendency the "Stand-Patters"
drew closer together. Similarly the various elements which followed Roosevelt tended to combine.
Already some of these were beginning to be called "Insurgents," but this name did not frighten
them nor did it shame them back into the fold of the orthodox Republicans. As Roosevelt continued
his fight for reclamation, conservation, health, and pure foods, and governmental control of
the great monopolies, the opposition to him, on the part of the capitalists affected, grew
more intense. What wonder that these men, realizing at last that their unlimited privileges
would be taken away from them, resented their deprivation. The privileged classes in England
have not welcomed the suggestion that their great landed estates shall be cut up, nor can we
expect that the American dukes and marquises of oil and steel and copper and transportation
should look forward with meek acquiescence to their own extinction.

Nevertheless, there is no politics in politics, and so the gray wolves who ran the Republican
Party, knowing that Roosevelt, and not themselves, had the determining popular support of the
country, were too wary to block him entirely as the Democrats had done under Cleveland. They
let his bills go through, but with more evident reluctance, only after bitter fighting. And
as they were nearly all church members in good standing, we can imagine that they prayed the
Lord to hasten the day when this pestilent marplot in the White House should retire from office.
Trusting Roosevelt so far as to believe that he would stand by his pledge not to be a candidate
in 1908, they cast about for a person of their own stripe whom they could make the country accept.

But Roosevelt himself felt too deeply involved in the cause of Reform, which he had been pushing
for seven years, to allow his successor to be dictated by the Stand-Patters. So he sought among
his associates in the Cabinet for the member who, judging by their work together, would most
loyally carry on his policies, and at length he decided upon William H. Taft, his Secretary
of War. "Root would make the better President, but Taft would be the better candidate," Theodore
wrote to an intimate, and that opinion was generally held in Washington and elsewhere. Mr.
Root had so conducted the Department of State, since the death of John Hay, that many good
judges regarded him as the ablest of all the Secretaries of that Department, and Roosevelt
himself went even farther. "Root," he said to me, "is the greatest intellectual force in American
public life since Lincoln." But in his career as lawyer, which brought him to the head of the
American Bar, he had been attorney for powerful corporations, and that being the time when
the Government was fighting the Corporations, it was not supposed that his candidacy would
be popular. So Taft was preferred to him.

The Republican Machine accepted Taft as a candidate with composure, if not with enthusiasm.
Anyone would be better than Roosevelt in the eyes of the Machine and its supporters, and perhaps
they perceived in Secretary Taft qualities not wholly unsympathetic. They were probably thankful,
also, that Roosevelt had not demanded more. He allowed the "regulars" to choose the nominee
for Vice-President, and he did not meddle with the make-up of the Republican National Committee.
One of his critics, Dean Lewis, marks this as Roosevelt's chief political blunder, because
by leaving the Republican National Committee in command he virtually predetermined the policy
of the next four years. Only a very strong President with equal zeal and fighting quality could
win against the Committee. In 1908 he had them so docile that he might have changed their membership,
and changed the rules by which elections were governed if he had so willed, but, just as before
the election of 1904, Roosevelt had doubted his own popularity in the country, so now he missed
his chance because he did not wish to seem to wrest from the unwilling Machine powers which
it lost no time in using against him.

The campaign never reached a dramatic crisis. Mr. Bryan, the Democratic candidate, who still
posed as the Boy Orator of the Platte, although he had passed forty-eight years of age, made
a spirited canvass, and when the votes were counted he gained more than a million and a third
over the total for Judge Parker in 1904. But Mr. Taft won easily by a million and a quarter votes.

Between election and inauguration an ominous disillusion set in. The Rooseveltians had taken
it for granted that the new President would carry on the policies of the old; more than that,
the impression prevailed among them that the high officials of the Roosevelt Administration,
including some members of his Cabinet, would be retained, but when Inauguration Day came, it
appeared that Mr. Taft had chosen a new set of advisers, and he denied that he had given any
one reason to believe that he would do otherwise.

March 4, 1909, was a wintry day in Washington. A snowstorm and high winds prevented holding
the inaugural exercises out of doors as usual on the East Front of the Capitol. President Roosevelt
and President-elect Taft drove in state down Pennsylvania Avenue, and Mr. Taft, having taken
the oath of office, delivered his inaugural address in the Senate Chamber. The ceremonies being
over, Mr. Roosevelt, instead of accompanying the new President to the White House, went to
the railway station and took the train for New York. This innovation had been planned some
time before, because Mr. Roosevelt had arranged to sail for Europe in a few days, and needed
to reach Oyster Bay as soon as possible to complete his preparations.

Many an eye-witness who watched him leave, as a simple civilian, the Hall of Congress, must
have felt that with his going there closed one of the most memorable administrations this country
had ever known. Roosevelt departed, but his invisible presence still filled the capital city
and frequented every quarter of the Nation.

CHAPTER XX. WORLD HONORS

What to do with ex-Presidents is a problem which worries those happy Americans who have nothing
else to worry over. They think of an ex-President as of a sacred white elephant, who must not
work, although he has probably too little money to keep him alive in proper ease and dignity.
In fact, however, these gentlemen have managed, at least during the past half-century, to sink
back into the civilian mass from which they emerged without suffering want themselves or dimming
the lustre which radiates from the office. Roosevelt little thought that in quitting the Presidency
he was not going into political obscurity.

Roosevelt had two objects in view when he left the White House. He sought long and complete
rest, and to place himself beyond the reach of politicians. In fairness, he wished to give
Mr. Taft a free field, which would hardly have been possible if Roosevelt had remained in Washington
or New York, where politicians might have had access to him.

Accordingly, he planned to hunt big game in Africa for a year, and in order to have a definite
purpose, which might give his expedition lasting usefulness, he arranged to collect specimens
for the Smithsonian Institution in Washington. His second son, Kermit, then twenty years of
age, besides several naturalists and hunters, accompanied him. His expedition sailed from New
York on March 23d, touched at the Azores and at Gibraltar, where the English Commander showed
him the fortifications, and transshipped at Naples into an East-African liner. He found his
stateroom filled with flowers sent by his admiring friend, Kaiser William II, with a telegram
of effusive greeting, and with messages and tokens from minor potentates. More important to
him than these tributes, however, was the presence of Frederick C. Selous, the most famous
hunter of big game in Africa, who joined the ship and proved a congenial fellow passenger.
They reached Mombasa on April 23rd, and after the caravan had been made ready, they started
for the interior.

We need not follow in detail the year which Roosevelt and his party spent in his African hunting.
The railroad took them to Lake Victoria Nyanza, but they stopped at many places on the way,
and made long excursions into the country. Then from the Lake they proceeded to the Albert
Nyanza and steamed down the Nile to Gondokoro, which they reached on February 26, 1910. On
March 14th at Khartoum, where Mrs. Roosevelt and their daughter Ethel awaited them, Roosevelt
emerged into civilization again. He and Kermit had shot 512 beasts and birds, of which they
kept about a dozen for trophies, the rest going to the Smithsonian Institution and to the museums.
A few of their specimens were unique, and the total product of the expedition was the most
important which had ever reached America from Africa.

After spending a few days in visiting Omdurman and other scenes connected with the British
conquest of the Mahdists, less than a dozen years before, the Roosevelts went down the river
to Cairo, where the ex-President addressed the Egyptian students. These were the backbone of
the so-called Nationalist Party, which aimed at driving out the British and had killed the
Prime Minister a month before. They warned Roosevelt that if he dared to touch on this subject
he, too, would be assassinated. But such threats did not move him then or ever. Roosevelt reproved
them point-blank for killing Boutros Pasha, and told them that a party which sought freedom
must show its capacity for living by law and order, before it could expect to deserve freedom.

>From Egypt, Roosevelt crossed to Naples, and then began what must be described as a triumphal
progress through Central and Western Europe. Only General Grant, after his Presidency, had
made a similar tour, but he did not excite a tenth of the popular interest and enthusiasm which
Roosevelt excited. Although Grant had the prestige of being the successful general of the most
tremendous war ever fought in America, he had nothing picturesque or magnetic in his personality.
The peasants in the remote regions had heard of Roosevelt; persons of every class in the cities
knew about him a little more definitely; and all were keen to see him. Except Garibaldi, no
modern ever set multitudes on fire as Roosevelt did, and Garibaldi was the hero of a much narrower
sphere and had the advantage of being the hero of the then downtrodden masses. Roosevelt, on
the other hand, belonged to the ruling class in America, had served nearly eight years as President
of the United States, and was equally the popular idol without class distinction. And he had
just come from a very remarkable exploit, having led his scientific and hunting expedition
for twelve months through the perils and hardships of tropical Africa. We Americans may well
thrill with satisfaction to remember that it was this most typical of Americans who received
the honors and homage of the world precisely because he was most typically American and strikingly
individual.

Before he reached Italy on his way back, he had invitations from most of the sovereigns of
Europe to visit them, and universities and learned bodies requested him to address them. At
Rome, as guest of King Victor Emanuel II, he received ovations of the exuberant and throbbing
kind, which only the Italians can give. But here also occurred what might have been, but for
his common sense and courage, a hitch in his triumphal progress. The intriguers of the Vatican,
always on the alert to edify the Roman Catholics in the United States, thought they saw a chance
to exalt themselves and humble the Protestants by stipulating that Colonel Roosevelt, who had
accepted an invitation to call upon the Pope, should not visit any Protestant organization
while he was in that city. Some time before, Vice-President Fairbanks had incensed Cardinal
Merry del Val, the Papal Secretary, and his group, by remarks at the Methodist College in Rome.
Here was a dazzling opportunity for not only getting even, but for coming out victorious. If
the Vatican schemers could force Colonel Roosevelt, who, at the moment, was the greatest figure
in the world, to obey their orders, they might exult in the sight of all the nations. Should
he balk, he would draw down upon himself a hostile Catholic vote at home. Probably the good-natured
Pope himself understood little about the intrigue and took little part in it, for Pius X was
rather a kindly and a genuinely pious pontiff. But Cardinal Merry del Val, apt pupil of the
Jesuits, made an egregious blunder if he expected to catch Theodore Roosevelt in a Papal trap.
The Rector of the American Catholic College in Rome wrote: " 'The Holy Father will be delighted
to grant audience to Mr. Roosevelt on April 5th, and hopes nothing will arise to prevent it,
such as the much-regretted incident which made the reception of Mr. Fairbanks impossible.'
Roosevelt replied to our Ambassador as follows: 'On the other hand, I in my turn must decline
to have any stipulations made or submit to any conditions which in any way limit my freedom
of conduct.' To this the Vatican replied. through our Ambassador: 'In view of the circumstances
for which neither His Holiness nor Mr. Roosevelt is responsible, an audience could not occur
except on the understanding expressed in the former message.'" *

* Washburn, 164.

Ex-President Roosevelt did not, by calling upon the Pope, furnish Cardinal Merry del Val with
cause to gloat. A good while afterward in talking over the matter with me, Roosevelt dismissed
it with "No self-respecting American could allow his actions or his going and coming to be
dictated to him by any Pope or King." That, to him, was so self-evident a fact that it required
no discussion; and the American people, including probably a large majority of Roman Catholics,
agreed with him.

>From Rome he went to Austria, to Vienna first, where the aged Emperor, Francis Joseph, welcomed
him; and then to Budapest, where the Hungarians, eager for their independence, shouted themselves
hoarse at sight of the representative of American independence. Wherever he went the masses
in the cities crowded round him and the people in the country flocked to cheer him as he passed.
Since Norway had conferred on him the Nobel Peace Prize after the Russo-Japanese War, he journeyed
to Christiania to pay his respects to the Nobel Committee, and there he delivered an address
on the conditions necessary for a universal peace in which he foreshadowed many of the terms
which have since been preached by the advocates of a League of Nations. In Berlin, the Kaiser
received him with ostentatious friendliness. He addressed him as "Friend Roosevelt." Since
the Colonel was not a monarch the Kaiser could not address him as "Brother" or as "Cousin,"
and the word "Friend "disguised whatever condescension he may have felt. There was a grand
military review of twelve thousand troops, which the Kaiser and his "Friend" inspected, and
he took care to inform Roosevelt that he was the first civilian to whom this honor had ever
been paid. An Imperial photographer made snapshots of the Colonel and the Kaiser, and these
were subsequently given to the Colonel with superscriptions and comments written by the Kaiser
on the negatives. Roosevelt's impression of his Imperial host was, on the whole, favorable.
I do not think he regarded him as very solid, personally, but he recognized the results of
the power which William's inherited position as Emperor conferred on him.

Paris did not fall behind any of the other European capitals in the enthusiasm of its welcome.
There, Roosevelt was received in solemn session by the Sorbonne, before which he spoke on citizenship
in a Republic, and, with prophetic vision, he warned against the seductions of phrase-makers
as among the insidious dangers to which Republics were exposed.

His most conspicuous triumph, however, was in England. On May 6th, King Edward VII died, and
President Taft appointed Colonel Roosevelt special envoy, to represent the United States at
the royal funeral. This drew together crowned heads from all parts of Europe, so that at one
of the State functions at Buckingham Palace there were no fewer than thirteen monarchs at table.
The Colonel stayed at Dorchester House with the American Ambassador, Mr. Whitelaw Reid, and
was beset by calls and invitations from the crowned personages. I have heard him give a most
amusing account of that experience, but it is too soon to repeat it. Then, as always, he could
tell a bore at sight, and the bore could not deceive him by any disguise of ermine cloak or
Imperial title. The German Kaiser seems to have taken pains to pose as the preferred intimate
of "Friend Roosevelt," but the "Friend" remained unwaveringly Democratic. One day William telephoned
to ask Roosevelt to lunch with him, but the Colonel diplomatically pleaded a sore throat, and
declined. At another time when the Kaiser wished him to come and chat, Roosevelt replied that
he would with pleasure, but that he had only twenty minutes at the Kaiser's disposal, as he
had already arranged to call on Mrs. Humphry Ward at three-thirty. These reminiscences may
seem trifling, unless you take them as illustrating the truly Democratic simplicity with which
the First Citizen of the American Republic met the scions of the Hapsburgs and the Hohenzollerns
on equal terms as gentleman with gentlemen.

Some of his backbiters and revilers at home whispered that his head was turned by all these
pageants and courtesies of kings, and that he regretted that our system provided for no monarch.
This afforded him infinite amusement. "Think of it!" he said to me after his return. "They
even say that I want to be a prince myself! Not I! I've seen too many of them! Do you know
what a prince is? He's a cross between Ward McAllister and Vice-President Fairbanks. How can
any one suppose I should like to be that?" It may be necessary to inform the later generation
that Mr. Ward McAllister was by profession a decayed gentleman in New York City who achieved
fame by compiling a list of the Four Hundred persons whom he condescended to regard as belonging
to New York Society. Vice-President Fairbanks was an Indiana politician, tall and thin and
oppressively taciturn, who seemed to be stricken dumb by the weight of an immemorial ancestry
or by the sense of his own importance; and who was not less cold than dumb, so that irreverent
jokers reported that persons might freeze to death in his presence if they came too near or
stayed too long.

All this was only the froth on the stream of Roosevelt's experience in England. He took deep
enjoyment in meeting the statesmen and the authors and the learned men there. The City of London
bestowed the freedom of the city upon him. The Universities of Cambridge and Oxford gave him
their highest honorary degrees. At the London Guildhall he made a memorable address, in which
he warned the British nation to see to it that the grievances of the Egyptian people were not
allowed to fester. Critics at the moment chided this advice as an exhibition of bad taste;
an intrusion, if not an impertinence, on the part of a foreigner. They did not know, however,
that before speaking, Roosevelt submitted his remarks to high officers in the Government and
had their approval; for apparently they were well pleased that this burning topic should be
brought under discussion by means of Roosevelt's warning.

At Cambridge University he exhorted the students not to be satisfied with a life of sterile
athleticism. "I never was an athlete," said he, "although I have always led an outdoor life,
and have accomplished something in it, simply because my theory is that almost any man can
do a great deal, if he will, by getting the utmost possible service out of the qualities that
he actually possesses . . . . The average man who is successful--the average statesman, the
average public servant, the average soldier, who wins what we call great success--is not a
genius. He is a man who has merely the ordinary qualities that he shares with his fellows,
but who has developed those ordinary qualities to a more than ordinary degree."

The culmination of his addresses abroad was his Romanes Lecture, delivered at the Convocation
at Oxford University on June 7, 1910. Lord Curzon, the Chancellor, presided. Roosevelt took
for his theme, "Biological Analogies in History," a subject which his lifelong interest in
natural history and his considerable reading in scientific theory made appropriate. He afterwards
said that in order not to commit shocking blunders he consulted freely his old friend Dr. Henry
Fairfield Osborn, head of the Museum of Natural History in New York City, but the substance
and ideas were unquestionably his own.

Dr. Henry Goudy, "the public orator" at Cambridge, in a Presentation Speech, eulogized Roosevelt's
manifold activities and achievements, declaring, among other things, that he had "acquired
a title to be ranked with his great predecessor Abraham Lincoln--'of whom one conquered slavery,
and the other corruption.'" Lord Curzon addressed him as, "peer of the most august kings, queller
of wars, destroyer of monsters wherever found, yet the most human of mankind, deeming nothing
indifferent to you, not even the blackest of the black."

This cluster of foreign addresses is not the least remarkable of Roosevelt's intellectual feats.
No doubt among those who listened to him in each place there were carping critics, scholars
who did not find his words scholarly enough, dilettanti made tepid by over-culture, intellectual
cormorants made heavy by too much information, who found no novelty in what he said, and were
insensible to the rush and freshness of his style. But in spite of these he did plant in each
audience thoughts which they remembered, and he touched upon a range of interests which no
other man then alive could have made to seem equally vital.

On June 18th Mr. and Mrs. Roosevelt reached New York. All the way up the harbor from Sandy
Hook, he was escorted by a vast concourse of vessels, large and small, tugs, steamboats, and
battleships. At the Narrows, Fort Wadsworth greeted him with the Presidential salute of twenty-one
guns. The revenue-cutter, Androscoggin, took him from the Kaiserin Auguste Victoria, on which
he had crossed the ocean, and landed him at the Battery. There an immense multitude awaited
him. Mayor Gaynor bade him welcome, to which he replied briefly in affectionate words to his
fellow countrymen. Then began a triumphal procession up Broadway, and up Fifth Avenue, surpassing
any other which New York had seen. No other person in America had ever been so welcomed. The
million or more who shouted and cheered and waved, were proud of him because of his great reception
in Europe, but they admired him still more for his imperishable work at home, and loved him
most of all, because they knew him as their friend and fellow, Theodore Roosevelt, their ideal
American. A group of Rough Riders and two regiments of Spanish War Veterans formed his immediate
escort, than whom none could have pleased him better.

His head was not turned, but his heart must have overflowed with gratitude.

Later, when the crowds had dispersed, he went into a bookstore, and some one in the street
having recognized him, the word passed, and a great crowd cheered him as he came out. Telling
his sister of the occurrence, he said, "And they soon will be throwing rotten apples at me!"

CHAPTER XXI. WHICH WAS THE REPUBLICAN PARTY?

Did those words of Roosevelt spring from his sense of humor--humor which recognizes the topsy-turvy
of life and its swift changes, and still laughs--or from the instinct which knows that even
in the sweetest of all experiences there must be a drop of bitterness? Whatever their cause,
they proved to be a true foreboding. He had not been home twenty four hours before he perceived,
on talking with his friends, that the Republican Party during his absence had drifted far from
the course he had charted. "His policies" had vanished with his control, and the men who now
managed the Administration and the party regarded him, not merely with suspicion, but with
aversion.

To tell the story of this conflict is the disagreeable duty of the historian of. that period,
especially if he have friends and acquaintances on both sides of the feud. There are some facts
not yet known; there are others which must be touched upon very delicately if at all; and,
in the main, so much of the episode grew out of personal likes and dislikes that it is hard
to base one's account of it on documents. In trying to get at the truth, I have been puzzled
by the point-blank contradictions of antagonistic witnesses, whose veracity has not been questioned.
Equally perplexing are the lapses of memory in cases where I happen to have seen letters or
documents written at the time and giving real facts. The country would assuredly have been
alarmed if it had suspected that, during the years from 1909 to 1912, the statesmen who had
charge of it, were as liable to attacks of amnesia as they proved to be later.

The head and front of the quarrel which wrecked the Republican Party must be sought in Roosevelt's
thoroughly patriotic desire to have a successor who should carry on the principles which he
had fought for and had embodied in national laws during the nearly eight years of his Presidency.
He felt more passionately than anybody else the need of continuing the work he had begun, not
because it was his work, but because on it alone, as he thought, the reconciliation between
Capital and Labor in the United States could be brought about, and the impending war of classes
could be prevented. So he chose Judge Taft as the person who, he believed, would follow his
lead in this undertaking. But the experience of a hundred and ten years, since Washington was
succeeded by John Adams, might have taught him that no President can quite reproduce the qualities
of his predecessor and that the establishment of a Presidential dynasty is not congenial to
the spirit of the American people. Jefferson did, indeed, hand on his mantle to Madison, and
the experiment partially succeeded. But Madison was much nearer Jefferson in ability and influence
than Judge Taft was near Roosevelt.

During the campaign of 1908, and immediately after the election, we can imagine that Mr. Taft
was sincerely open to Roosevelt's suggestions, and that he quite naturally gave Roosevelt the
impression that he intended to follow them, not because they were Roosevelt's, but because
they were his own also. As soon as he began to realize that he was President, and that a President
has a right to speak and act on his own motion, Mr. Taft saw other views rising within him,
other preferences, other resolves. From the bosom of his family he may have heard the exhortation,
"Be your own President; don't be any body's man or rubber stamp." No doubt intimate friends
strengthened this advice. The desire to be free and independent, which lies at the bottom of
every normal heart, took possession of him also; further, was it not the strict duty of a President
to give the country the benefit of his best judgment instead of following the rules laid down
by another, or to parrot another's doctrines?

Whatever may have been the process by which the change came, it had come before Taft's inauguration.
He chose a new Cabinet, although Roosevelt supposed that several of the members of his Cabinet
would be retained. Before the Colonel started for Africa he felt that a change had come, but
he went away with the hope that things would turn out better than he feared. His long absence
under the Equator would relieve any anxiety Taft might have as to Roosevelt's intention to
dictate or interfere.

Very little political news reached the Colonel while he was hunting. On reaching Italy, on
his return journey, he met Mr. Gifford Pinchot, who had come post-haste from New York, and
conveyed to him the latest account of the political situation at home. It was clear that the
Republican Party had split into two factions-the Regulars, who regarded President Taft as their
standard-bearer, and the Insurgents, who rallied round Roosevelt, and longed desperately for
his return. To the enemies of the Administration, it seemed that Mr. Taft had turned away from
the Rooseveltian policies. In his appointments he had replaced Roosevelt men by Regulars. His
Secretary of the Interior, Mr. Ballinger, came into conflict with Mr. Pinchot over conservation,
and the public assumed that the President was not only unconcerned to uphold conservation,
but was willing that the natural resources of the Nation should fall again into the hands of
greedy private corporations. This assumption proved to be false, and Secretary Ballinger was
exonerated by a public investigation; but for two years, at least, the cloud hung over Mr.
Taft's reputation, and, as always happens, the correction being far less nimble than the accusation,
took a much longer time in remedying the harm that it had done.

When, therefore, Roosevelt landed at the Battery on June 18, 1910, the day of his apotheosis,
he knew that a factional fight was raging in the Republican Party. His trusty followers, and
every one who bore a grudge against the Administration, urged him to unfurl his flag and check
any further disintegration; but prudence controlled him and he announced that he should not
speak on political matters for at least two months. He was sincere; but a few days later at
the Harvard Commencement exercises he met Governor Hughes, of New York State, who was waging
a fierce struggle against the Machine to put through a bill on primary elections. The Governor
begged the Colonel as a patriotic boss-hating citizen, to help him, and Roosevelt hastily wrote
and dispatched to Albany a telegram urging Republicans to support Hughes. In the result, his
advice was not heeded, a straw which indicated that the Machine no longer feared to disregard him.

For several weeks Roosevelt waited and watched, and found out by personal investigation how
the Republican Party stood. It took little inspection to show him that the Taft Administration
was not carrying out his policies, and that the elements against which he had striven for eight
years were creeping back. Indeed, they had crept back. It would be unjust to Mr. Taft to assert
that he had not continued the war on Trusts. Under his able Attorney-General, Mr. George W.
Wickersham, many prosecutions were going forward, and in some cases the legislation begun by
Roosevelt was extended and made more effective. I speak now as to the general course of Mr.
Taft's Administration and not specially of the events of 1910. In spite of this continuation
of the battle with the Octopus--as the Big Interests, Wall Street, and Trusts were indiscriminately
nicknamed--the public did not believe that Mr. Taft and his assistants pushed the fight with
their whole heart. Perhaps they were misjudged. Mr. Taft being in no sense a spectacular person,
whatever he did would lack the spectacular quality which radiated from all Roosevelt's actions.
Then, too, the pioneer has deservedly a unique reward. Just as none of the navigators who followed
Columbus on the voyage to the Western Continent could win credit like his, so the prestige
which Roosevelt gained from being the first to grapple with the great monopolies could not
be shared by any successor of his, who simply carried on the work of "trust-busting," as it
was called, which had be come commonplace.

Nevertheless, although nobody doubted Mr. Wickersham's legal ability, the country felt that
during the Taft Administration zeal had gone out of the campaign of the Administration against
the Interests. Roosevelt had plunged into the fray with the enthusiasm of a Crusader. Taft
followed him from afar, but without feeling the Crusader's consecration or his terrible sincerity.
And during the first six months of his Administration, President Taft had unwittingly given
the country the measure of himself.

The Republican platform adopted at Chicago declared "unequivocally for a revision of the tariff
by a special session of Congress, immediately following the inauguration of the next President
.... In all tariff legislation the true principle of protection is best maintained by the imposition
of such duties as will equal the difference between the cost of production at home and abroad,
together with a reasonable profit to American industries. We favor the establishment of maximum
and minimum rates to be administered by the President under limitations fixed in the law, the
maximum to be available to meet discriminations by foreign countries against American goods
entering their markets, and the minimum to represent the normal measure of protection at home."
The American public, regardless of party, assumed that the "revision" referred to in this plank
of the Republican platform meant a revision downward; and it supposed, from sayings and opinions
of Mr. Taft, that he put the same construction upon it. He at once called a special session
of Congress, and a new tariff bill was framed under the direction of Sereno E. Payne, a Stand-Pat
Republican member of Congress, Chairman of the Committee on Ways and Means, and Nelson W. Aldrich,
Senator from Rhode Island, and guardian angel and factotum for the Big Interests. For several
months these gentlemen conducted the preparation of the new bill. Payne had already had experience
in putting through the McKinley Tariff in 1890, and the Dingley Tariff in 1897. Again the committee-room
was packed by greedy protectionists who, for a consideration, got from the Government whatever
profit they paid for. Neither Payne nor Aldrich had the slightest idea that to fix tariff rates
to enrich special individuals and firms was a most corrupt practice. When a Republican Senator,
who honestly supposed that the revision would be downward, privately remonstrated, the reply
he heard was, "Where shall we get our campaign funds?" Finally, after some discussion between
the House and the Senate--a discussion which did not lessen the enormities of the measure--the
Payne-Aldrich Bill was passed by Congress and signed by President Taft, and it enjoyed the
bad eminence of being worse than the McKinley and the Dingley tariffs which had preceded it.

The public, which had seen more clearly than on former occasions, how such charters to legalize
industrial piracy were devised, was somewhat dashed--by President Taft's approval. Perhaps
it still hoped that the creation of a non-partisan Tariff Commission of experts would put an
end to this indecent purchase and sale of privileges and would establish rates after the scientific
investigation of each case. Soon, however, these hopes were swept away; for on September 17,
1909, the President delivered at Winona, Minnesota, a laudatory speech on the new tariff. He
admitted that some points in Schedule K--that comprising wool and woolen goods--were too high.
But, he said solemnly that this was "the best tariff law the Republicans ever made, and, therefore,
the best the country ever had." In that Winona speech, Mr. Taft hung a millstone round his
own neck. His critics and his friends alike had thrust upon them this dilemma: either he knew
that the Payne-Aldrich Tariff had been arrived at by corrupt ways and was not a revision downward--in
spite of which he pronounced it the "best ever"; or he did not know its nature and the means
used in framing it. In the latter case, he could not be considered a person sufficiently informed
on great financial questions, or on the practices of some of the politicians who made laws
for him to sign, to be qualified to sit in the President's chair. If, on the other hand, knowing
the measure to be bad he declared it the "best ever," he was neither sincere nor honest, and
in this case also he was not a President whom the country could respect.

I would not imply that the American public went through this process of reasoning at once,
or arrived at such clear-cut conclusions; Demos seldom indulges in the luxury of logic; but
the shock caused by the Winona speech vibrated through the country and never after that did
the public fully trust Mr. Taft. It knew that the Interests had crawled back and dictated the
Payne-Aldrich Tariff, and it surmised that, although he prosecuted the Trusts diligently, they
did not feel greatly terrified. But nobody whispered or suspected that he was not honest.

While President Taft slowly lost his hold on the American people, he gained proportionately
with the Republican Machine. That Machine was composed of the Regulars of the party, or the
Conservatives, as they preferred to be called, and it was losing its hold on the country. In
politics when this process of petrifaction is reached, we call it Bourbonism, and the sure
sign of the Bourbon is that, being unconscious that he is the victim of sclerosis, he sees
no reason for seeking a cure. Unable to adjust himself to change and new conditions he falls
back into the past, as an old man drops into his worn-out armchair.

Now Roosevelt had been, of course, the negation of Bourbonism. He had led the Republican Party
into new fields and set it to do new work, and far off, shining clearly, its goal beckoned
it on. His followers were mostly young men; they saw that the world had changed, and would
change still further, and they went forward valiantly to meet it and, if possible, to shape
its changes. For ten years past, these Radicals, as the Regulars named them some what reproachfully,
and who were better defined as "Insurgents," had played an increasingly important part in Congress.
They would not submit to the Bosses and the Machine, but voted independently, and, although
they were not all of them avowed Rooseveltians, they all were going in his direction. In the
second year of Mr. Taft's Administration, they rebelled against the rigid dictatorship of Joseph
G. Cannon, the Speaker of the House. "Uncle Joe," as the public nicknamed him, dated from before
the Civil War, and entered Congress in 1863, forty-seven years before 1910. It was as if a
rigid Bourbon, who had served under Louis XV in France in 1763, had been chief law-maker under
Napoleon I in 1810. Mr. Cannon, however, had never learned that the Civil War was over, whereas
every Frenchman who survived the Revolution knew that it had taken place. So the Insurgents
rose up against him, in his old age, deprived him of his dictatorial power, and, at the next
election, Democrats and Republicans combined to sweep him out of office altogether.

The Jews who ridiculed Noah when he began to build the Ark were, it proved, Bourbons, but they
had some excuse, for when Noah was working there was no portent of a flood and not even a black
cloud with a shower wrapped up in it hung on the horizon. But the Republican Regulars, under
Mr. Taft, could not complain that no sign had been vouchsafed to them. The amazing rise in
power and popularity of Roosevelt during the decade, the surging unrest of Labor throughout
the world, the obviously altered conditions which immense fortunes and the amassing of wealth
by a few corporations had produced, and such special symptoms as the chafing at the Payne Aldrich
Tariff, the defeat of Speaker Cannon, and the election of a Democratic House of Representatives
ought to have warned even the dullest Republican. For good, or for ill, a social and industrial
revolution was under way, and, instead of trimming their sails to meet it, they had not even
taken ship. Roosevelt and the Insurgents had long understood the revolution of which they were
a part, and had taken measures to control it. Roosevelt's first achievement, as we have seen,
was to bring the Big Interests under the power of the law. The hawks and vultures whose wings
he clipped naturally did not like it or him, but the laws had force behind them, and they submitted.
The leaders of the popular movement, however, declared that this was not enough. They preached
the right of the people to rule. The people, they urged, must have a real share in electing
the men who were to make the laws and to administer and interpret them.

Every one knew that the system of party government resulted in a Machine, consisting of a few
men who controlled the preliminary steps which led to the nomination of candidates and then
decided the election, so far as their control of the regular party members could do this. It
would be idle, said the advocates of these popular rights, to make the best of laws in behalf
of the people and allow them to be enforced by representatives and judges chosen, under whatever
disguise, by the great capitalists. And so these Progressives, bent on trusting implicitly
the intelligence, the unselfishness, and the honesty of the People, proposed three novel political
instruments for obtaining the pure Democracy they dreamed of. First, the Initiative, by which
a certain number of voters could suggest new laws; second, the Referendum, by which a vote
should be taken to decide whether the People approved or not of a law that was in operation;
and third, the judicial Recall, by which a majority of the voters could nullify a decision
handed down by a judge. This last was often misnamed and misconstrued, the "Recall of Judges,"
but so far as I know very few of the Progressive leaders, certainly not Colonel Roosevelt,
proposed to put the tenure of office of a judge at the mercy of a sudden popular vote.

When Roosevelt returned from Africa, he found that the Progressive movement had developed rapidly,
and the more he thought over its principles, the more they appealed to him. To arrive at Social
Justice was his life-long endeavor. In a speech delivered on August 31, 1910, at Ossawatomie,
Kansas, he discoursed on the "New Nationalism." Let not him who is houseless pull down the
house of another, but let him work diligently and build one for him self, thus, by example,
showing that his own shall be safe from violence when built."

Not all those who cry "Plato! Plato!" are Platonists. So, not all those who now appeal to Lincoln's
mighty name for sanction of their own petty caprices and crazy creeds, have learned the first
letter of the alphabet which Lincoln used; but Roosevelt, I believe, knew Lincoln better, knew
the spirit of Lincoln better, than any other President has known it. And Lincoln would have
approved of most, if not of all, of the measures which, in that Ossawatomie speech, Roosevelt
declared must be adopted. Whenever he spoke or wrote after that, he repeated his arguments
in defense of the "New Nationalism," and they sank deep into the public conscience. He took
no active part in politics, as he thought, but the country knew better than he did that, wherever
he was, politics was active. Every one consulted him; his occasional speeches roused a storm
of criticism; a dozen would-be candidates in each party sat on the anxious seat and waited
for his decision. So he watched the year 1910 draw to its close and 1911 wheel by, without
his giving the final word. Although he was very really the centre of attention, he nevertheless
felt lonely, and a friend tells me of going to Oyster Bay, late in the autumn, and finding
Roosevelt in fact alone, as his family were away, and depressed by the thought that he was
cut off, probably forever, from throwing himself into work which would be of public benefit.
But Roosevelt was a fighter, not a sulker, and he was too healthy in spirit to give way to
disappointment.

That he resented the purpose, as he supposed, of the Taft Administration to throw over his
policies, I do not doubt, although there are letters in existence which indicate that he still
had courteous if not friendly relations with President Taft. But what ate into him more than
any personal resentment was his chagrin at seeing the Great Cause, for which he had spent his
life, neglected and denied by the Republican Party. Progressivism seemed to be slowly in process
of suffocation by the Big Interests which it had come into being to protest against, to curb,
and to control.

There were other leaders in this Cause, the most prominent being Senator La Follette, of Wisconsin.
He had caught up very early some of Bryan's demagogic doctrines, which he had softened a good
deal and made palatable to the Republicans of his State. Then he had stood out as a Liberal
in Congress, and from Liberal he became Insurgent, and now that the Insurgents were being defined
as Progressives, he led the Progressives in Congress. The same spirit was permeating the Democrats;
only the hide-bound Regular Republicans appeared not to notice that a new day had dawned. "Uncle
Joe" Cannon, their Speaker of the House, reveled in his Bourbonism, made it as obnoxious as
he could, and then was swept away by the enraged Liberals.

By the summer of 1911 the discussion of possible candidates grew more heated. Roosevelt still
kept silent, but he told his intimates that he would not run. He did not wish to be President
again, especially at the cost of an internecine struggle. I believe that he was sincere; so
is the consummate actor or the prima donna, whom the world applauds, sincere in bidding farewell
to the stage forever. Nevertheless, which of them is conscious of the strength of the passion,
which long habit, and supremacy, and the intoxication of success have evoked, dwells in them?
Given the moment and the lure, they forget their promise of farewell.

By this time the politicians began to foresee that the dissension in the Republican Party would
make it difficult to choose a candidate who could win. Every President desires to be reelected
if he can be, not necessarily because he is greedy of power, but because reelection is equivalent
to public approval of his first term. Mr. Taft, therefore, stood out as the logical candidate
of the Conservatives. The great majority of the Progressives desired Roosevelt, but, since
he would say neither yes nor no, they naturally turned to Senator La Follette. And La Follette
launched a vigorous campaign for the nomination and was undoubtedly gaining ground except in
the East, where some of his views had been regarded as too extreme even for the Liberals. To
his great misfortune, in a speech at Philadelphia on February 2, 1912, he showed signs of a
temporary mental collapse and, although his friends protested that this mishap was not serious,
much less permanent, he never got back into the running.

Meanwhile, Roosevelt's nearest zealots not only urged upon him the duty of coming out squarely
as the Progressive aspirant, but they set up throughout the country their propaganda for him.
He received letters by the bushel and every letter appealed to his patriotism and to his sense
of duty. The Progressives were in dead earnest. They believed that the country, if not civilization,
had reached a crisis on the outcome of which would depend the future health and peace of Society.
They had a crusade, not a mere political campaign, ahead of them, and they could not believe
that Roosevelt, their peerless champion, would fail them.

The average person, who calmly sits back in his easy-chair and passes his verdict on the acts
of great men, does not always allow for the play of emotions which may have influenced them.
What sort of reaction must appeals like these have stimulated? How can the unimaginative man,
who has never been urged by his fellow townspeople to be even Trustee of the Town library or
graveyard, put himself in the place of a Leader, who is told by millions of persons, possibly
fanatics but not flatterers, that the destiny of the Nation depends upon his listening to their
entreaties?

Everything conspired to win Roosevelt over: La Follette being eliminated, there was no other
Progressive whom the majority would agree upon. The party spoke with only one voice, and uttered
only one name. And, presently, the Governors of seven States--Bass of New Hampshire, Hadley
of Missouri, Osborn of Michigan, Glasscock of West Virginia, Carey of Wyoming, Aldrich of Nebraska,
and Stubbs of Kansas--issued an appeal to him which seemed to give an official stamp to the
popular entreaties. Roosevelt's enemies insinuated that the seven Governors had been moved
to act at his own instigation, and they tried to belittle the entire movement as a "frame-up,"
in the common phrase of the day. No doubt he was consulted in the general direction of the
campaign; no doubt, being a very alert student of political effects, he suggested many things;
but the rush of enthusiasts to him was genuine and spontaneous.

I happened to spend the evening of February 25, 1912, with him at the house of Judge Robert
Grant in Boston. Judge Grant and I were not politicians, and I, at least, had never voted for
a Republican Presidential candidate. But both of us were very old personal friends of the Colonel,
and for five hours we three talked with the utmost frankness. He knew that he could trust us,
and, I think, he planned to get the views of non-partisan friends before announcing his final
decision. Three days earlier, at Columbus, Ohio, he gave a great speech, in which he proclaimed
a new charter for Democracy and vigorously advocated the Initiative, Referendum, and Recall.
We discussed these from every side; he got the Outlook in which his speech was printed and
read to us passages which he thought corrected popular misunderstanding of it. When I objected
to the platform in general, because it would tend to destroy representative government and
substitute therefor the whims of the populace at the moment, he replied that we had no representative
government. "I can name forty-six Senators," he said, "who secured their seats and hold them
by the favor of a Wall Street magnate and his associates, in all parts of the country. Do you
call that popular, representative government?" he asked.

The evening wore on, and in similar fashion he parried all our criticism. We urged him not
to be a candidate, because, we said, we thought that the public ought to be reined in and disciplined,
instead of being encouraged to be more lawless and self-willed. I defended our judiciary system
and said that the American people needed most of all to be taught respect for the Courts. He
explained that his Recall of Judicial Decisions did not mean, as the Opposition alleged, the
Recall of Judges. Then we urged him, for the sake of his own future, not to engage in a factional
strife which might end his usefulness to the country, but he brushed aside every argument based
on his selfish advantage. "I wish," he said to me, "to draw into one dominant stream all the
intelligent and patriotic elements, in order to prepare against the social upheaval which will
other wise overwhelm us." "A great Central Party, such as Cavour founded for the liberation
of Italy?" said I. "Exactly," said he.

The thing which mainly struck me at the time, and which I still vividly remember, was the Colonel's
composure throughout all this debate. Vehement he was--because he could not describe even a
butterfly without vividness which easily passed into vehemence- -but he was in no sense mentally
overwrought; nor did he continually return to one subject like a man with an obsession. His
humor flashed out, even at his own expense, but he had throughout the underlying gravity of
one who knows that he is about to make a very important decision. I mention these facts because
at the time, and afterward, Roosevelt's enemies circulated the assertion that his mind was
unbalanced, and that this fact accounted for his break with the regular Republicans. I have
in my hand a printed circular, issued by a Chicago lawyer, offering five thousand dollars apiece
to each of several hospitals and other charitable institutions, if Roosevelt would allow himself
to be examined by competent alienists and they did not pronounce him to be a "madman"! No!
he was not mad, but he had the fervor, the courage, the impatience of a Crusader about to undergo
ordeal by battle.

>From notes of the conversation Judge Grant made at the time I quote the following. Judge Grant
asked:

"Will any of the party leaders support you?"

"No," he said, "none of them; not even Lodge, I think. I don't see how he can. My support will
come from the people, officered by a few lieutenants--young men principally like Governor Bass,
of New Hampshire." He said that he realized that the probabilities were all against his nomination;
that a President in office had all the machinery on his side; but that of course it wouldn't
do to admit outside that he expected to lose; that if he could reach the popular vote through
direct primaries, he could hope to win. It was manifest that he believed that it was indispensable
for the future good of the Republican Party that he should make the breach. When he said as
much, I asked, "But the situation is complex, I suppose? You would like to be President?" "You
are right," he replied. "It is complex. I like power; but I care nothing to be President as
President. I am interested in these ideas of mine and I want to carry them through, and feel
that I am the one to carry them through." He said that he believed the most important questions
today were the humanitarian and economic problems, and intimated that the will of the people
had been thwarted in these ways, especially by the courts on constitutional grounds, and that
reforms were urgent.

As I went out into the midnight, I felt sad, as one might after bidding farewell to a friend
who has volunteered to lead a forlorn hope. I did not realize then the moral depth from which
Roosevelt's resolve came, or that he would rather die for that cause than be victorious in
any other.

The next day, Monday, February 26th, he announced to the country that he was a candidate for
the Republican nomination.

CHAPTER XXII. THE TWO CONVENTIONS

During the weeks while Roosevelt had been deliberating over "throwing his hat into the ring,"
his opponents had been busily gathering delegates. By this delay they gained a strategic advantage.
According to the unholy custom which gave to the Republicans in the Southern States a quota
of delegates proportioned to the population and not to the number of Republican voters, a large
Southern delegation was pledged for Mr. Taft very early. Most of the few Southern Republicans
were either office-holders or negroes; the former naturally supported the Administration on
which their living depended; the latter, whose votes were not counted, also supported the President
from whom alone they might expect favors. The former slave States elected 216 delegates, nearly
all of whom went to President Taft, making a very good start for him. In the Northern, Western,
and Pacific States, however, Roosevelt secured a large proportion of the delegates. In the
system of direct primaries, by which the people indicated their preference instead of having
the candidates chosen in the State Conventions, which were controlled by the Machine, the Progressives
came out far ahead. Thus, in North Dakota, President Taft had less than 4000 votes out of 48,000
cast, the rest going to Roosevelt and La Follette. In several of the great States he carried
everything before him. In Illinois, his majority was 139,000 over Taft's; in Pennsylvania,
67 of the 76 delegates went to him. In Ohio, the President's own State, the Taft forces were
"snowed under"; in California, a stronghold of Progressivism, Roosevelt had a large plurality.
Nevertheless, wherever the Regulars controlled the voting, they usually brought President Taft
to the front. Even when they could not produce the votes, they managed to send out contesting
delegations.

On looking back, it appears indisputable that if the Republicans could then have cast their
ballots they would have been overwhelmingly for Roosevelt; and if the Roosevelt delegates to
the Convention had not been hampered in voting, they too would have nominated him. But the
elections had been so artfully manipulated that, when the Convention met, there were 220 contests.
Everybody understood that the final result hung on the way in which these should be decided.

The Convention assembled in the great Coliseum Hall at Chicago on June 18, 1912. But for ten
days the hosts had been coming in, one delegation after another; the hotels were packed; each
committee had its special quarters; crowds of sight-seers, shouters, and supporters swelled
the multitude. The Republican National Committee met; the managers of each candidate met. The
committees, which had not yet an official standing, conferred unofficially. Rumors floated
from every room; there were secret conferences, attempts to win over delegates, promises to
trade votes, and even efforts at conciliation. Night and day this wild torrent of excitement
rushed on.

A spectator from Mars might have remarked: "But for so important a business as the choice of
a candidate who may become President of the United States, you ought to have quiet, deliberation,
free play, not for those who can shout loudest, but for those who can speak wisest." And to
this remark, the howling and whirling dervishes who attended the Convention would have replied,
if they had waited long enough to hear it through, by yelling,

"Hail! Hail! the gang's all here! What the hell do we care? What the hell do we care?"

and would have darted off to catch up with their fellow Bacchanals. A smell of cocktails and
of whiskey was ubiquitous; a dense pall of tobacco smoke pervaded the committee-rooms; and
out of doors the clang of brass bands drowned even the incessant noise of the throngs. There
was no night, for the myriads of electric lights made shadows but no darkness, and you wondered
when these strange creatures slept.

Such Saturnalia did not begin with the Convention of 1912. Most of those who took part in them
hardly thought it a paradox that these should be the conditions under which the Americans nominated
their candidates for President.

Roosevelt had not intended to appear at the Convention, but when he discovered that the long
distance telephone from Chicago to Oyster Bay, by which his managers conferred with him, was
being tapped, he changed his mind. He perceived, also, that there was a lack of vigorous leadership
among those managers which demanded his presence. By going, he would call down much adverse
criticism, even from some of those persons whose support he needed. On the other hand, he would
immensely strengthen his cause in Chicago, where the mere sight of him would stimulate enthusiasm.

So he and Mrs. Roosevelt took the five-thirty afternoon train to Chicago, on Friday, June 14th,
leaving as privately as possible, and accompanied by seven or eight of their children and cousins.
Late on Saturday, the train, having narrowly escaped being wrecked by an accident, reached
Chicago. At the station there was an enormous crowd. Roosevelt's young kinsmen kept very close
to him and wedged their way to an automobile. With the greatest difficulty his car slowly proceeded
to the Congress Hotel. Never was there such a furor of welcome. Everybody wore a Roosevelt
button. Everybody cheered for "Teddy." Here and there they passed State delegations bearing
banners and mottoes. Rough Riders, who had come in their well-worn uniforms, added to the Rooseveltian
exultation. Whoever judged by this demonstration must think it impossible that the Colonel
could be defeated.

After he and his party had been shown to the suites reserved for them, he went out on the balcony
of a second-floor room and spoke a few words to the immense multitude waiting below. He said,
in substance, that he was glad to find from their cheers that Chicago did not believe in the
thieves who stole delegates. Some who saw him say that his face was red with anger; others
aver that he was no more vehement than usual, and simply strained himself to the utmost to
make his voice carry throughout his audience. Still, if he said what they report, he was not
politic.

Then followed days and nights of incessant strain.

The Colonel and Mrs. Roosevelt had their personal apartment in the northeast corner of the
hotel, at some distance from the Florentine Room, which served as the official headquarters
for the Progressives. He had, besides, a private office with a reception-room, and Tyree, one
of the devoted detectives who had served under him in old times, carefully guarded the entrance.
There was hardly a moment when one or two persons were not closeted with him. Occasionally,
he would come out into the reception room and speak to the throng waiting there. No matter
what the news, no matter how early or late the hour, he was always cheerful, and the mere sight
of him brought joy and confidence to his followers.

The young kinsmen went everywhere and brought back reports of what they had seen or heard.
One of them kept a diary of the events as they whirled past, hour by hour, and in this one
can note many of the fleeting but vivid touches, which recall to the reader now the reality
of those feverish days. He attended a big Taft rally at the Taft headquarters. Bell-boys ran
up and down the hotel corridors announcing it. "After each announcement," writes the young
cousin, "a group of Roosevelt men would cry out, 'All postmasters attend!'" Two Taftites spoke
briefly and "were greeted by a couple of hand claps apiece; and then the star performer of
the evening was announced in the most glowing terms as a model of political propriety, and
the foremost and most upright citizen of the United States--William Barnes, Jr., of Albany."
Mr. Barnes was supposed, at that time, to lead the New York Republican Machine. "We have got
to save the country," he said, " save the constitution, save our liberty. We are in danger
of monarchy. The country must be saved!!" The Roosevelt cousin thought that he spoke "without
fervor to a listless, sedate, and very polite audience. It was made all the more preposterous
by the fact that a very ancient colored gentleman stood back of Barnes, and whenever Barnes
paused, would point to the crowd and feebly begin clapping his hands. They would then slowly
and very politely take up the applause, in every case waiting for his signal. It was almost
pathetic." At one time the Roosevelt scouts alleged that "Timothy Woodruff is wavering, with
four other delegates, and will soon fall to us," and told "of delegates flopping over, here
and there." A still more extraordinary piece of news came from Hooker to the effect that he
had in some way intercepted a telegram "from Murray Crane to his nephew saying that Crane and
Barnes would 'fight or ruin' and that it was now 'use any means and sacrifice the Republican
Party.' Had it not been for the way he told us, I couldn't have believed such a thing possible."

Rumors like these were not verified at the time, and they are assuredly unverifiable now. I
repeat them merely to show how suspense and excitement were constantly fed before the Convention
met. Remembering how long ex-Senator Crane and Mr. Barnes had had their hands on the throttle
of the Republican Machine, we are not surprised at the young Rooseveltian's statement: "The
Taft forces control anything that has to do with machinery, but all the feeling is for Roosevelt,
and the Congress Hotel, at any rate, favors the 'Big Noise,' as you will sometimes hear him
called in the lobbies or in the streets." Apparently, stump speeches were made at any moment,
and without provocation, in any hall; room, or lobby of the hotel, by any one who felt the
spirit move him; and, lest silence should settle down and soothe the jaded nerves, a band would
strike up unexpectedly. The marching to and fro of unrestrained gangs, shouting, "We-want-Teddy!"
completed the pandemonium.

Monday came. The young scouts were as busy as ever in following the trails which led to Taft
activities. The news they had to tell was always very cheering. They found little enthusiasm
among the President's supporters. They heard, from the most trustworthy sources, that this
or that Taft leader or delegation was coming over. And, in truth, the Taft body probably did
not let off a tenth of the noise which their opponents indulged in. The shallows murmur, but
the deeps are dumb, does not exactly apply to the two opposing hosts. The Taft men resorted
very little to shouting, because they knew that if they were to win at all it must be by other
means. The Rooseveltians, on the other hand, really felt a compelling surge of enthusiasm which
they must uncork.

Meanwhile Colonel Roosevelt and his lieutenants knew that the enemy was perfecting his plan
to defeat them. On Monday evening his zealots packed the Auditorium and he poured himself out
to them in one of his torrential speeches calculated to rouse the passions rather than the
minds of his hearers. But it fitly symbolized the situation. He, the daunt less leader, stood
there, the soul of sincerity and courage, impressing upon them all that they were engaged in
a most solemn cause and defying the opposition as if it were a legion of evil spirits. His
closing words--" We stand at Armageddon and we battle for the Lord"--summed it all up so completely
that the audience burst into a roar of approval, and never doubted that he spoke the truth.

Tuesday at noon, a crowd of fifteen thousand persons, delegates and visitors, packed the vast
Convention Hall of the Coliseum. Mr. Victor Rosewater, of Nebraska, presided at the opening.
As it was known that the Republican National Committee intended to place on the temporary roll
of delegates seventy-two names of persons whose seats were contested, Governor Hadley, of Missouri,
made a motion that only those delegates, whose right was not contested, should sit and vote
during the preliminary proceedings. Had he been successful, the Regulars would have lost the
battle from the beginning. But he was ruled out of order on the ground that the only business
before the Convention was the election of a Temporary Chairman. This took place, and Senator
Root, from New York, was elected by 558 votes; McGovern, the Roosevelt candidate, received
501 votes; there were 14 scattering, and 5 persons did not vote. Senator Root, therefore, won
his election by 38 votes over the combined opposition, but his plurality was secured by the
votes of the 72 whose seats were contested.

During the three following days the Roosevelt men fought desperately to secure what they believed
to be justice. They challenged every delegate, they demanded a roll-call on the slightest excuse,
they deluged the Regulars with alternate showers of sarcasm and anger. But it availed them
nothing. They soon perceived that victory lay with the Republican National Committee, which
had the organization of the Convention and the framing of the rules of procedure. The Taft
people, the Regulars, controlled the National Committee, and they knew that the rules would
do the rest, especially since, the Chairman of the Convention, Senator Root, was the interpreter
of the rules.

At no other National Convention in American history did a Chairman keep his head and his temper
so admirably as did Mr. Root on this occasion. His intellect, burning with a cold, white light,illumined
every point, but betrayed no heat of passion. He applied the rules as impartially as if they
were theorems of algebra. Time after time the Rooseveltians protested against the holders of
contested seats to vote, but he was unmoved because the rule prescribed that the person had
a right to vote. When the contests were taken up, the Taft men always won, the Roosevelt men
always lost. The Machine went as if by clock-work or like the guillotine. More than once some
Rooseveltian leader, like Governor Hadley, stung by a particularly shocking display of overbearing
injustice, taunted the majority with shouts of "Robbers" and "Theft." Roars of passion swept
through the hall. The derision of the minority was countered by the majority with equal vigor,
but the majority did not always feel, in spite of its truculent manner, confident of the outcome.

By what now seems shameless theft, the Credentials Committee approved the seating of two Taft
delegates from California, in spite of the fact that the proper officials of that State had
certified that its twenty-six delegates were all for Roosevelt, and had been elected by a majority
of 76,000 votes. Chairman Root put the question to the Convention, however, and those two discredited
delegates were admitted for Taft by a vote of 542 to 529. This indicates how close the Convention
then stood, when a change of seven votes would have given Roosevelt a majority of one and have
added to his list the two California delegates who were counted out. Had such a change taken
place, those who watched the Convention believed there would have been a "landslide" to Roosevelt.
But the Republican Committee's sorely tested rules held. After that, the Rooseveltians saw
no gleam of hope. The last were all Roosevelt men, but they had been requested by Roosevelt
to refuse to vote. If these fraudulent votes had not thus been cast and counted the Convention
would have been purged of their presence. This action makes the Convention in no proper sense
any longer a Republican Convention representing the real Republican Party. Therefore, I hope
the men elected as Roosevelt delegates will now decline to vote on any matter before the Convention.
I do not release any delegate from his honorable obligation to vote for me if he votes at all,
but under the actual conditions I hope that he will not vote at all. The Convention as now
composed has no claim to represent the voters of the Republican Party. We merely insist that
you, not we, are making the record. And we refuse to be bound by it. We have pleaded with you
ten days. We have fought with you five days for a square deal. We fight no more, we plead no
longer. We shall sit in protest and the people who sent us here shall judge us.

'Gentlemen, you accuse us of being radical. Let me tell you that no radical in the ranks of
radicalism ever did so radical a thing as to come to a National Convention of the great Republican
Party and secure through fraud the nomination of a man whom they knew could not be elected.'*

* Fifteenth Republican National Convention (New York, 1912), 333, 335.

Every night during that momentous week the Roosevelt delegates met in the Congress Hotel, talked
over the day's proceedings, gave vent to their indignation, confirmed each other's resolution,
and took a decision as to their future action. The powerful Hiram Johnson, Governor of California,
led them, and through his eloquence he persuaded all but 107 of them to stand by Roosevelt
whether he were nominated by the Convention or not.

And this they did. For when the vote for the nomination was taken at the Convention only 107
of the Roosevelt men cast their ballots. They favored Roosevelt, but they were not prepared
to quit the Republican Party. During the roll-call the Roosevelt delegates from Massachusetts
refused to vote. Thereupon, Mr. Root, the Chairman, ruled that they must vote, to which Frederick
Fosdick replied, when his name was read again, "Present, and not voting. I defy the Convention
to make me vote for any man"; and seventeen other Roosevelt delegates refrained. Mr. Root then
called up the alternates of these abstainers and three of them recorded their votes for Taft,
but there was such a demonstration against this ruling that Mr. Root thought better of it and
proceeded in it no farther. Many of his Republican associates at the time thought this action
high-handed and unjustified, and many more agree in this opinion today.

Except for this grave error, Mr. Root's rulings were strictly according to the precedents and
directions of the Republican National Committee, and we may believe that even he saw the sardonic
humor of his unvarying application of them at the expense of the Rooseveltians. Before the
first day's session was over, the process was popularly called the "steam roller." Late in
the week, a delegate rose to a point of order, and on being recognized by the Chairman, he
shouted that he wished to call the attention of the Chairman to the fact that the steam roller
was exceeding its speed limit, at which Mr. Root replied, "The Chairman rules that the gentleman's
point of order is well taken." And everybody laughed. There was one dramatic moment which,
as Dean Lewis remarks, has had no counterpart in a National Convention. When the Machine had
succeeded, in spite of protests and evidence, in stealing the two delegates from California,
the friends of Mr. Taft gave triumphant cheers. Then the Roosevelt men rose up as one man and
sent forth a mighty cheer which astonished their opponents. It was a cheer in which were mingled
indignation and scorn, and, above all, relief. Strictly interpreted, it meant that those men
who had sat for four days and seen their wishes thwarted, by what they regarded as fraud, and
had held on in the belief that this fraud could not continue to the end, that a sense of fairness
would return and rule the Regulars, now realized that Fraud would concede nothing and that
their Cause was lost. And they felt a great load lifted. No obligation bound them any longer
to the Republican Party which had renounced honesty in its principles and fair play in its
practice. Henceforth they could go out and take any step they chose to promote their Progressive
doctrines. *

* Lewis, 363.

Shortly after the Convention adjourned, having, by these methods, nominated Mr. Taft and James
S. Sherman for President and Vice-President, the Rooseveltians held a great meeting in Orchestra
Hall. Governor Johnson presided and apparently a majority of the Rooseveltians wished, then
and there, to organize a new party and to nominate Roosevelt as its candidate. Several men
made brief but earnest addresses. Then Roosevelt himself spoke, and although he lacked nothing
of his usual vehemence, he seemed to be controlled by a sense of the solemnity of their purpose.
He told them that it was no more a question of Progressivism, which he ardently believed in,
but a question of fundamental honesty and right, which everybody ought to believe in and uphold.
He advised them to go to their homes, to discuss the crisis with their friends; to gain what
adherence and support they could, and to return in two months and formally organize their party
and nominate their candidate for President. And he added: "If you wish me to make the fight,
I will make it, even if only one State should support me. The only condition I impose is that
you shall feel entirely free, when you come together, to substitute any other man in my place,
if you deem it better for the movement, and in such case, I will give him my heartiest support."

And so the defeated majority of the Republicans at Chicago, Republicans no longer, broke up.
There were many earnest hand-shakings, many pledges to meet again in August, and to take up
the great work. Those who intended to stay by the Republican Party, not less than those who
cast their lot with the Progressives, bade farewell, with deep emotion, to the Leader whom
they had wished to see at the head of the Republican Party. Chief among these was Governor
Hadley, of Missouri, who at one moment, during the Convention, seemed likely to be brought
forward by the Regulars as a compromise candidate. Some of the Progressives resented his defection
from them; not so Roosevelt, who said: "He will not be with us, but we must not blame him."

Six weeks later, the Progressives returned to Chicago. Again, Roosevelt had his headquarters
at the Congress Hotel. Again, the delegates, among whom were several women, met at the Coliseum.
Crowds of enthusiastic supporters and larger crowds of curiosity- seekers swarmed into the
vast building. On Monday, August 5, the first session of the Progressive Party's Convention
was held. Senator Albert J. Beveridge, of Indiana, made the opening address, in which he defined
the principles of their party and the objects it hoped to obtain. Throughout the proceedings
there was much enthusiasm, but no battle. It was rather the gathering of several thousand very
earnest men and women bent on consecrating themselves to a new Cause, which they believed to
be the paramount Cause for the political, economic, and social welfare of. their country. Nearly
all of them were Idealists, eager to secure the victory of some special reform. And, no doubt,
an impartial observer might have detected among them traces of that "lunatic fringe," which
Roosevelt himself had long ago humorously remarked clung to the skirts of every reform. But
the whole body, judged without prejudice, probably contained the largest number of disinterested,
public-spirited, and devoted persons, who had ever met for a national and political object
since the group which formed the Republican Party in 1854.

The professional politician who usually preponderates in such Conventions, and, in the last,
had usurped control both of the proceedings and decisions, had little place here. The chief
topic of discussion turned on the admission of negro delegates from the South. Roosevelt believed
that an attempt to create a negro Progressive Party, as such, would alienate the Southern whites
and would certainly sharpen their hostility towards the blacks. Therefore, he advised that
the negro delegates ought to be approved by the White Progressives in their several districts.
In other words, the Progressive Party in the South should be a white party with such colored
members as the whites found acceptable.

On Monday and Tuesday the work done in the Convention was much less important than that done
by the Committee on Resolutions and by the Committee on Credentials. On Wednesday the Convention
heard and adopted the Platform and then nominated Roosevelt by acclamation. Miss Jane Addams,
of Hull House, Chicago, seconded the nomination, praising Roosevelt as "one of the few men
in our public life who has been responsive to modern movement." "The program," she said, "will
need a leader of invincible courage, of open mind, of democratic sympathies--one endowed with
power to interpret the common man, and to identify himself with the common lot." Governor Hiram
Johnson, from California, was nominated for Vice-President.

Portraits of Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln, Jackson, and Hamilton, a sufficiently inclusive
group of patriots, looked down upon them. After Roosevelt and Johnson addressed the audience,
the trombones sounded "Old Hundred" and the great meeting closed to the words--

"Praise God from whom all blessings flow."

The Progressive Platform contained many planks which have since been made laws by the Democratic
Party, which read the signs of the times more quickly than did the Republicans. Especially
many of the suggestions relating to Labor, the improvement of the currency, the control of
corporate wealth, and oversight over public hygiene, should be commended. In general, it promised
to bring the Government nearer to the people by giving the people a more and more direct right
over the Government. It declared for a rational tariff and the creation of a non-partisan Tariff
Commission of experts, and it denounced alike the Republicans for the Payne-Aldrich Bill, which
dishonestly revised upwards, and the Democrats, who wished to abolish protection altogether.
It urged proper military and naval preparation and the building of two battleships a year--a
plank which we can imagine Roosevelt wrote in with peculiar satisfaction. It advocated direct
primaries; the conservation of natural resources; woman suffrage.

So rapidly has the country progressed in seven years that most of the recommendations have
already been adopted, and are among the common places which nobody disputes any longer. But
the Initiative, the Referendum, and the Recall of Judicial Decisions were the points, as I
remarked above, over which the country debated most hotly. The Recall, in particular, created
a widespread alarm, and just as Roosevelt's demand for it in his Columbus speech prevented,
as I believe, his nomination by the Republican Convention in June, so it deprived the Progressives
at the election in November of scores of thousands of votes. The people of the United States--every
person who owned a bit of property, a stock or a bond, or who had ten dollars or more in the
savings bank--looked upon it almost with consternation. For they knew that they were living
in a time of flux, when old standards were melting away like snow images in the sun, when new
ideals, untried and based on the negation of some of the oldest principles in our civilization,
were being pushed forward. They instinctively rallied to uphold Law, the slow product of centuries
of growth, the sheet anchor of Society in a time of change. Where could we look for solidity,
or permanence, if judicial decisions could be recalled at the caprice of the mob--the hysterical,
the uninstructed, the fickle mob? The opinion of one trained and honest judge outweighs the
whims of ten thousand of the social dregs.

The Recall of Judicial Decisions, therefore, caused many of Roosevelt's friends, and even Republicans
who would otherwise have supported him, to balk. They not only rejected the proposal itself,
but they feared that he, by making it, indicated that he had lost his judgment and was being
swept into the vortex of revolution. Judges and courts and respect for law, like lighthouses
on granite foundations, must be kept safe from the fluctuations of tides and the crash of tempests.

The campaign which followed is chiefly remarkable for Roosevelt's amazing activity. He felt
that the success of the Progressive Party at the polls depended upon him as its Leader. The
desire for personal success in any contest into which he plunged would have been a great incentive,
but this was a cause which dwarfed any personal considerations of his. Senator Joseph M. Dixon,
of Montana, managed the campaign; Roosevelt himself gave it a dynamic impulse which never flagged.
He went to the Pacific Coast, speaking at every important centre on the way, and returning
through the Southern States to New York City. In September he swept through New England, and
he was making a final tour through the Middle West, when, on October 14th, just as he was leaving
his hotel to make a speech in the Auditorium in Milwaukee, a lunatic named John Schranck shot
him with a revolver. The bullet entered his body about an inch below the right nipple and would
probably have been fatal but for an eye glass-case and a roll of manuscript he had in his pocket.
Before the assassin could shoot again, his hand was caught and deflected by the Colonel's secretary.
"Don't hurt the poor creature," Roosevelt said, when Schranck was overpowered and brought before
him. Not knowing the extent of his wound, and waiting only long enough to return to his hotel
room and change his white shirt, as the bosom of the one he had on was soaked with blood, and
disregarding the entreaties of his companions to stay quiet, he went to the Auditorium and
spoke for more than an hour. Only towards the end did the audience perceive that he showed
signs of fatigue. This extraordinary performance was most foolhardy, and some of his carping
critics said that, as usual, Roosevelt wanted to be theatrical. But there was no such purpose
in him. He felt to the depths of his soul that neither his safety nor that of any other individual
counted in comparison with the triumph of the Cause he was fighting for.

After a brief examination the surgeons stated that he had better be removed to the Mercy Hospital
in Chicago. They put him on his special car and by an incredible negligence they sent him off
to make the night journey without any surgical attendant. On reaching the Mercy Hospital, Dr.
Ryan made a further examination and reported that there seemed to be no immediate danger, although
he could not be sure whether the Colonel would live or not. Roosevelt, who was advertised to
make a great speech in Louisville, Kentucky, that evening, summoned Senator Beveridge and sent
him off with the manuscript of the address to take his place. Mrs. Roosevelt reached Chicago
by the first train possible, and stayed with him while he underwent, impatiently, nearly a
fortnight's convalescence. Then, much sooner than the surgeons thought wise, although his wound
had healed with remarkable speed, he returned to Oyster Bay, and on October 30th he closed
his campaign by addressing sixteen thousand persons in the Madison Square Garden. He spoke
with unwonted calm and judicial poise; and so earnestly that the conviction which he felt carried
conviction to many who heard him. "I am glad beyond measure," he said, "that I am one of the
many who in this fight have stood ready to spend and be spent, pledged to fight, while life
lasts, the great fight for righteousness and for brotherhood and for the welfare of mankind."

President Taft and the members of his Cabinet took little or no active part in the campaign.
Indeed, the Republicans seemed unable to arouse enthusiasm. They relied upon their past victories
and the robust campaign fund, which the Interests gladly furnished. The Democratic candidate
was Woodrow Wilson, Governor of New Jersey, who had been professor at Princeton University,
and then its president. As Governor, he had commended himself by fighting the Machine, and
by advocating radical measures. As candidate, he asserted his independence by declaring that
"a party platform is not a program." He spoke effectively, and both he and his party had the
self-complacency that comes to persons who believe that they are sure to win. And how could
their victory be in doubt since the united Democrats had for opponents the divided Republicans?
When Colonel Roosevelt was shot, Governor Wilson magnanimously announced that he would make
no more speeches. Roosevelt objected to this, believing that a chance accident to him, personally,
ought not to stop any one from criticising him politically. "What ever could with truth and
propriety have been said against me and my cause before I was shot, can," he urged, "with equal
truth and equal propriety, be said against me now, and it should so be said; and the things
that cannot be said now are merely the things that ought not to have been said before. This
is not a contest about any man; it is a contest concerning principles."

At the election on November 5th, Wilson was elected by 6,286,000 votes out of 15,310,000 votes,
thus being a minority President by two million and a half votes. Roosevelt received 4,126,000
and Taft 3,483,000 votes. The combined vote of what had been the Republican Party amounted
to 7,609,000 votes, or 1,323,000 more than those received by Mr. Wilson. When it came to the
Electoral College, the result was even more significant. Wilson had 435, Roosevelt 88, and
Taft, thanks to Vermont and Utah, secured 8 votes. Roosevelt carried Pennsylvania the rock-bound
Republican State, Missouri which was usually Democratic, South Dakota, Washington, Michigan,
and eleven out of the thirteen votes of California. These figures, analyzed calmly, after the
issues and passions have cooled into history, indicate two things. First, the amazing personal
popularity of Roosevelt, who, against the opposition of the Republican Machine and all its
ramifications, had so easily defeated President Taft, the candidate of that Machine. And secondly,
it proved that Roosevelt, and not Taft, really represented a large majority of what had been
the Republican Party. Therefore, it was the Taft faction which, in spite of the plain evidence
given at the choice of the delegates, and at the Convention itself--evidence which the Machine
tried to ignore and suppress--it was the Taft faction and not Roosevelt which split the Republican
Party in 1912.

Had it allowed the preference of the majority to express itself by the nomination of Roosevelt,
there is every reason to believe that he would have been elected. For we must remember that
the Democratic Platform was hardly less progressive than that of the Progressives themselves.
Counting the Wilson and the Roosevelt vote together, we find 10,412,000 votes were cast for
Progressive principles against 3,483,000 votes for the reactionary Conservatives. And yet the
gray wolves of the Republican Party, and its Old Guard, and its Machine, proclaimed to the
country that its obsolescent doctrines represented the desires and the ideals of the United
States in 1912!

Although the campaign, as conducted by the Republicans, seemed listless, it did not lack venom.
Being a family fight between the Taft men and the Roosevelt men, it had the bitterness which
family quarrels develop. Mr. Taft and most of his Secretaries had known the methods of Mr.
Roosevelt and his Ministers. They could counter, therefore, charges of incompetence and indifference
by recalling the inconsistencies, or worse, of Roosevelt's regime. When the Progressives charged
the Taft Administration with being easy on the Big Interests, Attorney-General Wickersham resorted
to a simple sum in arithmetic in order to contradict them, showing that whereas Roosevelt began
forty-four Anti-Trust suits, and concluded only four important cases during his seven and a
half years in office, under Taft sixty-six new suits were begun and many of the old ones were
successfully concluded. Some great cases, like that of the Standard Oil and of the Railroad
Rates, had been settled, which equaled in importance any that Roosevelt had taken up. In the
course of debate on the stump, each side made virulent accusations against the other, and things
were said which were not true then and have long since been regretted by the sayers. That happens
in all political contests.

Roosevelt himself, being the incarnation, if not indeed the cause, of the Progressive Party,
had to endure an incessant volley of personal attack. They charged him with inordinate ambition.
We heard how Mr. William Barnes, Jr., the would-be savior of the country, implied that Roosevelt
must be defeated in order to prevent the establishment of monarchy in the United States. Probably
Mr. Barnes, in his moments of reflection, admitted to himself that he did not really mean that,
but many campaign orators and editors repeated the insinuation and besought free-born Americans
not to elect a candidate who would assume the title of King Theodore. Many of his critics could
account for his leaving the Republican Party and heading another, only on the theory that he
was moved by a desire for revenge. If he could not rule he would ruin. The old allegation that
he must be crazy was of course revived.

After the election, the Republican Regulars, who had stubbornly refused, to read the handwriting
on the wall during the previous four years, heaped new abuse upon him. They said that he had
betrayed the Party. They said that he had shown himself an ingrate towards Taft, whose achievements
in the Presidency awoke his envy. And more recently, many persons who have loathed the Administration
of President Wilson, blame Roosevelt for having brought down this curse upon the country.

These various opinions and charges seem to me to be mistaken; and in the foregoing chapters,
if I have truly divined Theodore Roosevelt's character, every reader should see that his action
in entering the field for the Republican nomination in 1912, and then in founding the Progressive
Party, was the perfectly natural culmination of his career. Some one said that he went off
at a tangent in 1912. Some one else has said better that this tangent was a straight line leading
back to 1882, when he sat in the New York Assembly. Remember that the love of Justice was from
boyhood his leading principle. Remember that, after he succeeded in having a law passed relieving
the miserably poor cigar-makers from the hideous conditions under which they had to work, a
judge declared the law unconstitutional, thereby proving to Roosevelt that the courts, which
should be the citadels of justice, might and did, in this case, care more for the financial
interests of landowners than for the health, life, and soul of human beings. That example of
injustice was branded on his heart, and he resolved to combat the judicial league with in humanity,
wherever he met it. Exactly thirty years later, Abraham Lincoln, as President, was hitting
that thing--slavery--so hard that it perished. Roosevelt's experience as Assemblyman, as Civil
Service Commissioner, as Police Commissioner, as Governor, and as President, had confirmed
his belief that the decisions of the courts often stood between the People and Justice.

Especially in his war on the Interests was he angered at finding corporate abuses, and even
criminal methods, comfortably protected by an upholstery of favoring laws. With that tact and
willingness to compromise on non-essentials in order to gain his essential object, which mark
him as a statesman, he used the Republican Party, naturally the party of the plutocrats who
controlled the Interests, just as long as he could. Then, when the Republican Machine rose
against him, he quitted it and founded the Progressive Party, to be the instrument for carrying
on and completing the great reforms he had at heart. Here was no desertion, no betrayal; here
was, first of all, common sense; if the road no longer leads towards your goal, you leave it
and take an other. No one believed more sincerely than Roosevelt did, in fealty to party. In
1884 he would not bolt, because he hoped that the good which the Republican principles would
accomplish would more than offset the harm which the nomination of Blaine would inflict. But
in 1912, the Republicans cynically rejected his cause which he had tried to make the Republican
cause, and then, as in 1884, he held that the cause was more important than the individual,
and he followed this idea loyally, lead where it might.

In trying thus to state Roosevelt's position fairly, I do not mean to imply that I should agree
with his conclusions in regard to the Recall of the Judicial Decisions; and the experiments
which have already been made with the Referendum and Initiative and Direct Primaries are so
unsatisfactory that Roosevelt himself would probably have recognized that the doubts, which
many of us felt when he first proposed those measures, have been justified. But I wish to emphasize
my admiration for the large consistency of his career, and my conviction that, with out his
crowning action in 1912, he would have failed to be the moral force which he was. If ambition,
if envy, if a selfish desire to rule, had been the motives which guided him, he would have
lain low in 1912; for all his friends and the managers of the Republican Party assured him
that if he would stand aside then, he would be unanimously nominated by the Republicans in
1916. But he could not be tempted.

CHAPTER XXIII. THE BRAZILIAN ORDEAL

"They will be throwing rotten apples at me soon," Theodore had said to his sister, on the day
when New York went frantic in placing him among the gods. His treatment, after he championed
Progressivism, showed him to be clairvoyant. Not only did his political opponents belabor him--that
was quite natural--but his friends, having failed to persuade him not to take the fatal leap,
let him see plainly that, while he still had their affection, they had lost their respect for
his judgment. He himself bore the defeat of 1912 with the same valiant cheerfulness with which
he took every disappointment and thwarting. But he was not stolid, much less indifferent. "
It is all very well to talk with the Crusading spirit," he said after the election, "and of
the duty to spend and be spent; and I feel it absolutely as regards myself; but I hate to see
my Crusading lieutenants suffer for the cause." He was thinking of the eager young men, including
some of his kinsmen, who had gone into the campaign because they believed in him.

His close friends did not follow him, but they still loved him. And it was a sign of his open-mindedness
that he would listen to their opinions and even consult them, although he knew that they entirely
rejected his Progressivism. General Luke E. Wright, who remained a devoted friend but did not
become a Progressive, used to explain what the others called the Colonel's aberration, as being
really a very subtle piece of wisdom. Experienced ranchmen, he would say, when their herds
stampede in a sudden alarm, spur their horses through the rushing cattle, fire their revolvers
into the air, and gradually, by making the herds suppose that men and beasts are all together
in their wild dash, work their way to the front. Then they cleverly make the leaders swing
round, and after a long stampede the herd comes panting back to the place it started from.
This, General Wright said, is what Roosevelt was doing with the multitudes of Radicals who
seemed to be headed for perdition.

Just as he had absented himself in Africa for a year, after retiring from the Presidency, so
Roosevelt decided to make one more trip for hunting and exploration. As he could not go to
the North Pole, he said, because that would be poaching on Peary's field, he selected South
America. He had long wished to visit the Southern Continent, and invitations to speak at Rio
Janeiro and at Buenos Aires gave him an excuse for setting out. As before, he started with
the distinct purpose of collecting animal and botanical specimens; this time for the American
Museum of Natural History in New York, which provided two trained naturalists to accompany
him. His son Kermit, toughened by the previous adventure, went also.

Having paid his visits and seen the civilized parts of Brazil, Uruguay, and Argentina, he ascended
the Paraguay River and then struck across the plateau which divides its watershed from that
of the tributaries of the Amazon; for he proposed to make his way through an unexplored region
in Central Brazil and reach the outposts of civilization on the Great River. Dr. Osborn had
dissuaded him from going through a tract where the climate was known to be most pernicious.
The Brazilian Government had informed him that, by the route he had chosen, he would meet a
large river--the Rio da Duvido, the River of Doubt--by which he could descend to the Amazon.
Roosevelt's account of this exploration, given in his "The Brazilian Wilderness," belongs among
the masterpieces of explorers' records.

There were some twenty persons, including a dozen or fifteen native rowers and pack-bearers,
in his party. They had canoes and dugouts, supplies of food for about forty days, and a carefully
chosen outfit. With high hopes they put their craft into the water and moved downstream. But
on the fourth day they found rapids ahead, and from that time on they were constantly obliged
to land and carry their dugouts and stores round a cataract. The peril of being swept over
the falls was always imminent, and as the trail which constituted their portages had to be
cut through the matted forest, their labors were increased. In the first eleven days, they
progressed only sixty miles. No one knew the distance they would have to traverse nor how long
the river would be broken by falls and cataracts before it came down into the plain of the
Amazon. Some of their canoes were smashed on the rocks; two of the natives were drowned. They
watched their provisions shrink. Contrary to their expectations, the forest had almost no animals.
If they could shoot a monkey or a monster lizard, they rejoiced at having a little fresh meat.
Tropical insects--of which the pium seems to have been the worst--bit them day and night and
caused inflammation and even infection. Man-eating fish lived in the river, making it dangerous
for the men when they tried to cool their inflamed bodies by a swim. Most of the party had
malaria, and could be kept going only by large doses of quinine. Roosevelt, while in the water,
wounded his leg on a rock, inflammation set in, and prevented him from walking, so that he
had to be carried across the portages. The physical strength of the party, sapped by sickness
and fatigue, was visibly waning. Still the cataracts continued to impede their progress and
to add terribly to their toil. The supply of food had shrunk so much that the rations were
restricted and amounted to little more than enough to keep the men able to go forward slowly.
Then fever attacked Roosevelt, and they had to wait for a few days because he was too weak
to be moved. He besought them to leave him and hurry along to safety, because every day they
delayed consumed their diminishing store of food, and they might all die of starvation. They
refused to leave him, however, and he secretly determined to shoot himself unless a change
for the better in his condition came soon. It came; they moved forward. At last, they left
the rapids behind them and could drift and paddle on the unobstructed river. Roosevelt lay
in the bottom of a dugout, shaded by a bit of canvas put up over his head, and too weak from
sickness, he told me, even to splash water on his face, for he was almost fainting from the
muggy heat and the tropical sunshine.

On April 15th, forty-eight days after they began their voyage on the River of Doubt, they saw
a peasant, a rubber-gatherer, the first human being they had met. Thenceforward they journeyed
without incident. The River of Doubt flowed into the larger river Madeira where they found
a steamer which took them to Manaos on the Amazon. A regular line of steamers connects Manaos
with New York, where Roosevelt and Kermit and Cherrie, one of the naturalists, landed on May
19, 1914. During the homeward voyage Roosevelt slowly recovered his strength, but he had never
again the iron physique with which he had embarked the year before. His friends had urged him
not to go, warning him that a man of fifty four was already too old to waste his reserve force
on unnecessary enterprises. But his love of adventure, his passion for testing his endurance
and pluck by facing the grimmest dangers, and his wish to keep out of American political turmoil
for a time, prevailed against wiser counsel. The Brazilian Wilderness stole away ten years
of his life.

I do not know whether later, when he found himself checked by recurrent illness, he regretted
having chosen to encounter that ordeal in Brazil. He was a man who wasted no time over regrets.
The past for him was done. The material out of which he wove his life was the present or the
future. Days gone were as water that has flowed under the mill. Acting always from what he
regarded as the best motives of the present, he faced with equal heart whatever result they
brought. So when he found on his return home that some geographers and South American explorers
laughed at his story of the River of Doubt, he laughed, too, at their incredulity, and presently
the Brazilian Government, having established the truth of his exploration and named the river
after him, Rio Teodoro, his laughter prevailed. He took real satisfaction in having placed
on the map of Central Brazil a river six hundred miles long.

New York made no festival for him on this second homecoming. The city and the country welcomed
him, but not effusively. The American people, how ever, felt a void without Roosevelt. Whether
they always agreed with him or not, they found him perpetually interesting, and during the
ten or eleven weeks when he went into the Brazilian silence and they did not know whether he
was alive or dead, they learned how much his presence and his ready speech had meant to them.
And so they rejoiced to know that he was safe and at home again at Sagamore Hill.

