TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                         PAGE

  Struggle                                                  9
  Success                                                  19
  Satires and Epistles                                     30
  Odes and Epodes                                          51
  Swan-Song                                                74
  The Wines of Horace                                      82
  Chronology                                               85
  Index                                                    87

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

                                                 TO FACE PAGE

  Horace, from a Bronze Medallion              Frontispiece
  Brutus                                                   12
  Maecenas                                                 16
  The Site of Horace's Villa                               22
  The Roman Forum                                          26
  Augustus                                                 46
  Virgil                                                   64
  The Forum Restored, as in A.D. 80                        74

THE LIFE OF HORACE

STRUGGLE

Quintus Horatius Flaccus, the "old popular Horace" of Tennyson, petted and loved, by Frenchmen
and Englishmen especially, above all the poets of antiquity, was born on 8th December, B.C.
65. He calls himself in his poems by the three names indifferently, but to us he is known only
by the affectionate diminutive of his second or gentile name, borne by his father, according
to the fashion of the time, as slave to some member of the noble Horatian family. A slave the
father unquestionably had been: meanness of origin was a taunt often levelled against his son,
and encountered by him with magnanimous indifference; but long before Horace's birth the older
Horatius had obtained his freedom, had gained sufficient money to retire from business, and
to become owner of the small estate at Venusia on the borders of Apulia, where the poet was
born and spent his childhood. He repeatedly alludes to this loved early home, speaks affectionately
of its surrounding scenery, of the dashing river Aufidus, now Ofanto, of the neighbouring towns,
Acherontia, Bantia, Forentum, discoverable in modern maps as Acerenza, Vanzi, Forenza, of the
crystal Bandusian spring, at whose identity we can only guess. Here he tells us how, wandering
in the forest when a child and falling asleep under the trees, he woke to find himself covered
up by woodpigeons with leaves, and alludes to a prevailing rural belief that he was specially
favoured by the gods. Long afterwards, too, when travelling across Italy with Maecenas, he
records with delight his passing glimpse of the familiar wind-swept Apulian hills.

Of his father he speaks ever with deep respect. "Ashamed of him?" he says, "because he was
a freedman? whatever moral virtue, whatever charm of character, is mine, that I owe to him.
Poor man though he was, he would not send me to the village school frequented by peasant children,
but carried me to Rome, that I might be educated with sons of knights and senators. He pinched
himself to dress me well, himself attended me to all my lecture-rooms, preserved me pure and
modest, fenced me from evil knowledge and from dangerous contact. Of such a sire how should
I be ashamed? how say, as I have heard some say, that the fault of a man's low birth is Nature's,
not his own? Why, were I to begin my life again, with permission from the gods to select my
parents from the greatest of mankind, I would be content, and more than content, with those
I had." The whole self-respect and nobleness of the man shines out in these generous lines.
(Sat. I, vi, 89.)

Twice in his old age Horace alludes rather disparagingly to his schooldays in Rome: he was
taught, he says, out of a translation from Homer by an inferior Latin writer (Ep. II, i, 62,
69), and his master, a retired soldier, one Orbilius, was "fond of the rod" (Ep. II, i, 71).
I observe that the sympathies of Horatian editors and commentators, themselves mostly schoolmasters,
are with Orbilius as a much enduring paedagogue rather than with his exasperated pupil. We
know from other sources that the teacher was a good scholar and a noted teacher, and that,
dying in his hundredth year, he was honoured by a marble statue in his native town of Beneventum;
but like our English Orbilius, Dr. Busby, he is known to most men only through Horace's resentful
epithet;--"a great man," said Sir Roger de Coverley, "a great man; he whipped my grandfather,
a very great man!"

The young Englishman on leaving school goes to Oxford or to Cambridge: the young Roman went
to Athens. There we find Horace at about nineteen years of age, learning Greek, and attending
the schools of the philosophers; those same Stoics and Epicureans whom a few years later the
first great Christian Sophist was to harangue on Mars' Hill. These taught from their several
points of view the basis of happiness and the aim of life. Each in turn impressed him: for
a time he agreed with Stoic Zeno that active duty is the highest good; then lapsed into the
easy doctrine of Epicurean Aristippus that subjective pleasure is the only happiness. His philosophy
was never very strenuous, always more practical than speculative; he played with his teachers'
systems, mocked at their fallacies, assimilated their serious lessons.

 [Palace of the Conservators, Rome.

BRUTUS.]

Then into his life at this time came an influence which helped to shape his character, but
had nearly wrecked his fortunes. Brutus, fresh from Caesar's murder, was at Athens, residing,
as we should say, in his old University, and drawing to himself the passionate admiration of
its most brilliant undergraduates; among the rest, of the younger Cicero and of Horace. Few
characters in history are more pathetically interesting than his. High born, yet disdainful
of ambitious aims, irreproachable in an age of almost universal profligacy, the one pure member
of a grossly licentious family, modest and unobtrusive although steeped in all the learning
of old Greece, strong of will yet tolerant and gentle, his austerity so tempered by humanism
that he won not only respect but love; he had been adored by the gay young patricians, who
paid homage to the virtue which they did not rouse themselves to imitate, honoured as an equal
by men far older than himself, by Cicero, by Atticus, by Caesar.

Quitting Athens after a time to take command of the army which had been raised against Antony,
Brutus carried Horace in his company with the rank of military tribune. He followed his patron
into Asia; one of his early poems humorously describes a scene which he witnessed in the law
courts at Clazomenae. (Sat. I, vii, 5.) He was several times in action; served finally at Philippi,
sharing the headlong rout which followed on Brutus' death; returned to Rome "humbled and with
clipped wings." (Od. II, vii, 10; Ep. II, ii, 50.) His father was dead, his property confiscated
in the proscription following on the defeat, he had to begin the world again at twenty-four
years old. He obtained some sort of clerkship in a public office, and to eke out its slender
emoluments he began to write. What were his earliest efforts we cannot certainly say, or whether
any of them survive among the poems recognized as his. He tells us that his first literary
model was Archilochus (Ep. I, xix, 24), a Greek poet of 700 B.C., believed to have been the
inventor of personal satire, whose stinging pen is said to have sometimes driven its victims
to suicide. For a time also he imitated a much more recent satirist, Lucilius, whom he rejected
later, as disliking both the harshness of his style and the scurrilous character of his verses.
(Sat. I, x.) It has been conjectured therefore that his earliest compositions were severe personal
lampoons, written for money and to order, which his maturer taste destroyed. In any case his
writings found admirers. About three years after his return to Rome his friends Varius and
Virgil praised him to Maecenas; the great man read the young poet's verses, and desired to
see him. (Sat. I, vi, 54.)

It is as an enlightened and munificent patron of letters that Maecenas holds his place in popular
estimation, but he was much more than this. He had been since Caesar's death the trusty agent
and the intimate adviser of Augustus; a hidden hand, directing the most delicate manoeuvres
of his master. In adroit resource and suppleness no diplomatist could match him. His acute
prevision of events and his penetrating insight into character enabled him to create the circumstances
and to mould the men whose combination was necessary to his aims. By the tact and moderation
of his address, the honied words which averted anger, the dexterous reticence which disarmed
suspicion, he reconciled opposing factions, veiled arbitrary measures, impressed alike on nobles
and on populace the beneficence of imperial despotism, while he kept its harshness out of sight.
Far from parading his extensive powers, he masked them by ostentatious humility, refusing official
promotion, contented with the inferior rank of "Knight," sitting in theatre and circus below
men whom his own hand had raised to station higher than his own. Absorbed in unsleeping political
toil, he wore the outward garb of a careless, trifling voluptuary. It was difficult to believe
that this apparently effeminate lounger, foppish in dress, with curled and scented hair, luxuriating
in the novel refinement of the warm bath, an epicure in food and drink, patronizing actors,
lolling in his litter amid a train of parasites, could be the man on whom, as Horace tells
us, civic anxieties and foreign dangers pressed a ceaseless load. He had built himself a palace
and laid out noble gardens, the remains of which still exist, at the foot of the Esquiline
hill. It had been the foulest and most disreputable slum in Rome, given up to the burial of
paupers, the execution of criminals, the obscene rites of witches, a haunt of dogs and vultures.
He made it healthy and beautiful; Horace celebrates its salubrity, and Augustus, when an invalid,
came thither to breathe its air. (Sat. I, viii, 8, 14.) There Maecenas set out his books and
his gems and his Etruscan ware, entertained his literary and high born friends, poured forth
his priceless Caecuban and Chian wines. There were drops of bitter in these cups. His beautiful
wife Terentia tormented him by her temper and her infidelities; he put her away repeatedly,
as often received her back. It was said of him that he had been married a hundred times, though
only to a single wife: "What is the latest conjugal news?" men asked as his sumptuous litter
passed by, "is it a marriage or a divorce?" And he was haunted by terror of death. "Prolong
my life," was his prayer, in words which Seneca has ridiculed and La Fontaine translated finely,
yet missing the terseness of the original, "life amid tortures, life even on a cross, only life!"

His patronage of intellectual men was due to policy as well as inclination. Himself a cultured
literary critic, foreseeing the full-winged soar of writers still half-fledged--the "Aeneid"
in Virgil's "Eclogues," the "Odes" of Horace in his "Epodes"--he would not only gather round
his board the men whom we know to have been his equals, whose wit and wisdom Horace has embalmed
in an epithet, a line, an ode; Varius, and Sulpicius, and Plotius, and Fonteius Capito, and
Viscus; but he saw also and utilized for himself and for his master the social influence which
a rising poet might wield, the effect with which a bold epigram might catch the public ear,
a well-conceived eulogy minister to imperial popularity, an eloquent sermon, as in the noble
opening odes of Horace's third book, put vice out of countenance and raise the tone of a decadent
community.

 [Palace of the Conservators, Rome.

MAECENAS.]

To Horace, then, now twenty-seven years old, these imposing doors were opened. The first interview
was unsatisfactory; the young poet was tongue-tied and stammering, the great man reserved and
haughty: they parted mutually dissatisfied. Nine months later Maecenas sent for him again,
received him warmly, enrolled him formally amongst his friends. (Sat. I, vi, 61.) Horace himself
tells the story: he explains neither the first coldness, the long pause, nor the later cordiality.
But he rose rapidly in his patron's favour; a year afterwards we find him invited to join Maecenas
on a journey to Brundusium, of which he has left us an amusing journal (Sat. I, v); and about
three years later still was presented by him with a country house and farm amongst the Sabine
hills, a few miles to the east of Tibur, or, as it is now called, Tivoli.

With this a new chapter in his life begins. During six years he had lived in Rome, first as
an impecunious clerk, then as a client of Maecenas. To all Roman homes of quality and consequence
clients were a necessary adjunct: men for the most part humble and needy, who attended to welcome
the patron when issuing from his chamber in the morning, preceded and surrounded his litter
in the streets, clearing a way for it through the crowd; formed, in short, his court, rewarded
by a daily basket of victuals or a small sum of money. If a client was involved in litigation,
his patron would plead his cause in person or by deputy; he was sometimes asked to dinner,
where his solecisms in good breeding and his unfashionable dress, the rustic cut of his beard,
thick shoes, gown clumsily draped, made him the butt of the higher guests. Juvenal, in a biting
satire, describes the humiliation of a poor client at a rich man's table. "The host," he says,
"drinks old beeswinged Setian wine, served to him in a gold goblet by a beautiful boy; to you
a coarse black slave brings in a cracked cup wine too foul even to foment a bruise. His bread
is pure and white, yours brown and mouldy; before him is a huge lobster, before you a lean
shore-crab; his fish is a barbel or a lamprey, yours an eel:--and, if you choose to put up
with it, you are rightly served." The relation, though not held to be disgraceful, involved
sometimes bitter mortifications, and seems to us inconsistent with self-respect. We remember
how it was resented in modern times, though in a much milder form, by Edmund Spenser, Dr. Johnson,
and the poet Crabbe. Even between a Horace and a Maecenas it must have caused occasional embarrassment:
we find the former, for instance, dedicating poems to men whose character he could not respect,
but to whom, as his patron's associates, he was bound to render homage; while his supposed
intimacy with the all-powerful minister exposed him to tedious solicitants, who waylaid him
in his daily walks. He had become sick of "the smoke and the grandeur and the roar of Rome"
(Od. III, 29, 12); his Sabine retreat would be an asylum and a haven; would "give him back
to himself"; would endow him with competence, leisure, freedom; he hailed it as the mouse in
his delightful apologue craved refuge in the country from the splendour and the perils of the town:

  Give me again my hollow tree,
  A crust of bread--and liberty.

  (Sat. II, 6, fin.)

SUCCESS

Horace's Sabine farm ranks high among the holy places of the classic world; and through the
labours of successive travellers, guided by the scattered indications in his poems, its site
is tolerably certain. It was about thirty-two miles from Rome, reached in a couple of hours
by pilgrims of the present time; to Horace, who never allowed himself to be hurried, the journey
of a full day, or of a leisurely day and a half. Let us follow him as he rides thither on his
bob-tailed mule (Sat. I, vi, 104), the heavy saddlebags across its loins stored with scrolls
of Plato, of the philosopher Menander, Eupolis the comedian, Archilochus the lyric poet. His
road lies along the Valerian Way, portions of whose ancient pavement still remain, beside the
swift waters of the Anio, amid steep hills crowned with small villages whose inmates, like
the Kenites of Balaam's rhapsody, put their nests in rocks. A ride of twenty-seven miles would
bring him to Tivoli, or Tibur, where he stopped to rest, sometimes to pass the night, possessing
very probably a cottage in the little town. No place outside his home appealed to him like
this. Nine times he mentions it, nearly always with a caressing epithet. It is green Tibur,
dew-fed Tibur, Tibur never arid, leisurely Tibur, breezy Tibur, Tibur sloping to the sun. He
bids his friend Varus plant vines in the moist soil of his own Tiburtine patrimony there; prays
that when the sands of his life run low, he may there end his days; enumerates, in a noble
ode (Od. I, 7), the loveliest spots on earth, preferring before them all the headlong Anio,
Tibur's groves, its orchards saturated with shifting streams.

  The dark pine waves on Tibur's classic steep,
  From rock to rock the headlong waters leap,
  Tossing their foam on high, till leaf and flower
  Glitter like emeralds in the sparkling shower.
  Lovely--but lovelier from the charms that glow
  Where Latium spreads her purple vales below;
  The olive, smiling on the sunny hill,
  The golden orchard, and the ductile rill,
  The spring clear-bubbling in its rocky fount,
  The mossgrown cave, the Naiad's fabled haunt,
  And, far as eye can strain, yon shadowy dome,
  The glory of the earth, Eternal Rome.

No picture of the spot can be more graphic than are these noble lines. They open a Newdigate
Prize Poem of just eighty years ago, written, says tradition, by its brilliant author in a
single night. (R. C. Sewell, Magdalen College, 1825.) Tivoli he had never visited; but those
who stand to-day beside the Temple of the Sibyl on the edge of its ravine, who enjoy the fair
beauty of the headlong Anio and the lesser Cascatelle, of the ruined Temple of Tiburtus, the
Grottos of the Sirens and of Neptune, understand how a poet's genius can, as Shakespeare tells
us, shadow forth things unseen, and give them local habitation.

From Tibur, still beside the Anio, we drive for about seven miles, until we reach the ancient
Varia, now Vico Varo, mentioned by Horace as the small market town to which his five tenant-farmers
were wont to repair for agricultural or municipal business. (Ep. I, xiv, 3.) Here, then, we
are in the poet's country, and must be guided by the landmarks in his verse. Just beyond Vico
Varo the Anio is joined by the Licenza. This is Horace's Digentia, the stream he calls it whose
icy waters freshen him, the stream of which Mandela drinks. (Ep. I, xviii, 104-105.) And there,
on its opposite bank, is the modern village Bardela, identified with Mandela by a sepulchral
inscription recently dug up. We turn northward, following the stream; the road becomes distressingly
steep, recalling a line in which the poet speaks of returning homeward "to his mountain stronghold."
(Sat. II, vi, 16.) Soon we reach a village, Roccagiovine, whose central square is named Piazza
Vacuna. Vacuna was the ancient name for the goddess Victory; and against the wall is fixed
an exhumed tablet telling how the Emperor Vespasian here restored an ancient Temple of Victory.
One more echo this name wakes in Horatian ears--he dates a letter to his friend Aristius Fuscus
as written "behind the crumbling shrine of Vacuna." (Ep. I, x, 49.) Clearly we are near him
now; he would not carry his writing tablets far away from his door. Yet another verification
we require. He speaks of a spring just beside his home, cool and fine, medicinal to head and
stomach. (Ep. I, xvi, 12.) Here it is, hard by, called to-day Fonte d'Oratini, a survival,
we should like to believe, of the name Horatius. Somewhere close at hand must have been the
villa, on one side or the other of a small hill now called Monte Rotondo. We may take our Horace
from our pocket, and feel, as with our Wordsworth at Dove Cottage, with our Scott at Ashestiel,
that we are gazing on the hills, the streams, and valleys, which received the primal outpourings
of their muse, and are for ever vocal with its memories.

From M. Rotondo, eastward to the Licenza, and southward to the high ground of Roccogiovine,
stretched apparently the poet's not inconsiderable demesne. Part of it he let off to five peasants
on the métayage system; the rest he cultivated himself, employing eight slaves superintended
by a bailiff. The house, he tells us, was simple, with no marble pillars or gilded cornices
(Od. II, xviii), but spacious enough to receive and entertain a guest from town, and to welcome
occasionally his neighbours to a cheerful evening meal--"nights and suppers as of gods" (Sat.
II, vi, 65), he calls them; where the talk was unfashionably clean and sensible, the fare beans
and bacon, garden stuff and chicory and mallows. Around the villa was a garden, not filled
with flowers, of which in one of his odes he expresses dislike as unremunerative (Od. II, xv,
6), but laid out in small parallelograms of grass, edged with box and planted with clipped
hornbeam. The house was shaded from above by a grove of ilexes and oaks; lower down were orchards
of olives, wild plums, cornels, apples. In the richer soil of the valley he grew corn, whose
harvests never failed him, and, like Eve in Eden, led the vine to wed her elm. Against this
last experiment his bailiff grumbled, saying that the soil would grow spice and pepper as soon
as ripen grapes (Ep. I, xiv, 23); but his master persisted, and succeeded. Inviting Maecenas
to supper, he offers Sabine wine from his own estate (Od. I, xx, 1); and visitors to-day, drinking
the juice of the native grape at the little Roccogiovine inn, will be of opinion with M. de
Florac, that "this little wine of the country has a most agreeable smack." Here he sauntered
day by day, watched his labourers, working sometimes, like Ruskin at Hincksey, awkwardly to
their amusement with his own hands; strayed now and then into the lichened rocks and forest
wilds beyond his farm, surprised there one day by a huge wolf, who luckily fled from his presence
(Od. I, xxii, 9); or--most enjoyable of all--lay beside spring or river with a book or friend
of either sex.

  A book of verses underneath the bough,
  A loaf of bread, a jug of wine, and thou
  Beside me singing in the wilderness,
  Oh, wilderness were Paradise enow!

So roll to each other across the ages and the continents echoes of the Persian and the Roman bards.

Of the beauty of his home he speaks always modestly; it may not compare with Praeneste, Tarentum,
Baiae; its charm he is never weary of extolling. Nowhere, he says, is the air sweeter and more
balmy, in summer temperate, warm in winter; but beyond all this it yielded calm, tranquillity,
repose, making, as Wordsworth says, the very thought of country life a thought of refuge; and
that was what, so long in populous city pent, he longed to find, and found. It was his home,
where he could possess his soul, could be self-centred and serene. "This," says Ruskin, "is
the true nature of Home; it is the Place of Peace."

He loved the country, yet he was no hermit. When sickened of town life he could apostrophize
the country in the beautiful lines which many a jaded Londoner has echoed (Sat. II, vi, 60);
but after some months of its placid joys the active social side of him would re-assert itself:
the welcoming friends of the great city, its brilliant talk, its rush of busy life, recovered
their attractiveness, and for short intervals, in the healthy season of the year, he would
return to Rome. There it is less easy to image him than in his rustic home. Nature, if spared
by man, remains unaltered; the heights and recesses of the Digentian valley meet our eye to-day
scarce changed in twenty centuries, but the busy, crowded Rome of Horace is now only a desolate
excavation. We stand upon the "Rock of Triumph," the Capitoline Hill, looking down upon the
Forum: it lies like a stonemason's yard: stumps of pillars, fragments of brick or marble, overthrown
entablatures, pillars, altars, tangles of staircases and enclosures, interspersed with poppies,
wild oats, trefoils, confuse and crowd it:

  Cypress and ivy, weed and wallflower grow
  Matted and massed together, hillocks heaped
  On what were chambers; arch crushed, columns strown
  In fragments; choked up vaults, where the owl peeped,
  Deeming it midnight.

But patient, daily survey, educated by the restorations of a Lanciani, enables us to piece
together these encumbering ruins, until with tolerable clearness we can follow Horace in his
walk along the Via Sacra towards Caesar's gardens, and can fairly reconstruct the objects which
must have met his view. Everywhere is haunted ground: there is the bronze wolf of the Capitol,
"thunder-stricken nurse of Rome," and the Tarpeian rock, from which "the Traitor's leap cured
all ambition." There is the mythical gulf of Curtius, and the Mamertine prison where the Catiline
conspirators were strangled, with its vault into which Jugurtha, after gracing the triumph
of Marius, was hurled to die. Maiden-hair fern grows profusely in the crevices of Juturna's
well, hard by the spring where the great twin brethren gave their horses drink after the battle
of the Lake Regillus. Half covered with a mass of green acanthus is the base of Vesta's Temple,
adjoining the atrium of the Virgins' house surrounded with their portrait statues: their names
are engraved on each pedestal, but one is carefully erased, its original having, it is supposed,
violated her vestal vow. We pause upon the spot where Caesar's body was burned, and beside
the rostra whence Cicero thundered, and Antony spoke his "Friends, Romans, countrymen"; return
finally to the Capitoline Museum, nucleus and centre of the ancient mistress of the world,
to gaze upon gods, senators, emperors, shining still in undiminished majesty; on the Antinous,
the Amazon, the Juno, the Dying Gladiator, and the Grecian masterpiece of Praxiteles.

