After his return from the campaign, M. de Vendome continued to be paid like a general serving
in winter, and to enjoy many other advantages. From all this, people inferred that he would
serve during the following campaign; nobody dared to doubt as much, and the cabal derived new
strength therefrom.  But their little triumph was not of long continuance.  M. de Vendome came
to Versailles for the ceremony of the Order on Candlemas-Day.  He then learned that he was
not to serve, and that he was no longer to receive general's pay.  The blow was violent, and
he felt it to its fullest extent; but, with a prudence that equalled his former imprudence,
he swallowed the pill without making a face, because he feared other more bitter ones, which
he felt he had deserved. This it was that, for the first time in his life, made him moderate.
He did not affect to conceal what had taken place, but did not say whether it was in consequence
of any request of his, or whether he was glad or sorry,--giving it out as an indifferent piece
of news; and changed nothing but his language, the audacity of which he diminished as no longer
suited to the times.  He sold his equipages.

M. le Prince de Conti died February 22, aged not quite forty-five.  His face had been charming;
even the defects of his body and mind had infinite graces.  His shoulders were too high; his
head was a little on one side; his laugh would have seemed a bray in any one else; his mind
was strangely absent.  He was gallant with the women, in love with many, well treated by several;
he was even coquettish with men.  He endeavoured to please the cobbler, the lackey, the porter,
as well as the Minister of State, the Grand Seigneur, the General, all so naturally that success
was certain.  He was consequently the constant delight of every one, of the Court, the armies;
the divinity of the people, the idol of the soldiers, the hero of the officers, the hope of
whatever was most distinguished, the love of the Parliament, the friend of the learned, and
often the admiration of the historian, of jurisconsults, of astronomers, and mathematicians,
the most profound.  He was especially learned in genealogies, and knew their chimeras and their
realities.  With him the useful and the polite, the agreeable and the deep, all was distinct
and in its place.  He had friends, knew how to choose them, cultivate them, visit them, live
with them, put himself on their level without haughtiness or baseness.  But this man, so amiable,
so charming, so delicious, loved nothing.  He had and desired friends, as other people have
and desire articles of furniture.  Although with much self-respect he was a humble courtier,
and showed too much how greatly he was in want of support and assistance from all sides; he
was avaricious, greedy of fortune, ardent and unjust.  The King could not bear him, and was
grieved with the respect he was obliged to show him, and which he was careful never to trespass
over by a single jot.  Certain intercepted letters had excited a hatred against him in Madame
de Maintenon, and an indignation in the King which nothing could efface.  The riches, the talents,
the agreeable qualities, the great reputation which this Prince had acquired, the general love
of all, became crimes in him.  The contrast with M. du Maine excited daily irritation and jealousy.
The very purity of his blood was a reproach to him.  Even his friends were odious, and felt
that this was so.  At last, however, various causes made him to be chosen, in the midst of
a very marked disgrace, to command the army in Flanders.  He was delighted, and gave himself
up to the most agreeable hopes.  But it was no longer time: he had sought to drown his sorrow
at wearing out his life unoccupied in wine and other pleasures, for which his age and his already
enfeebled body were no longer suited.  His health gave way.  He felt it soon.  The tardy return
to favour which he had enjoyed made him regret life more.  He perished slowly, regretting to
have been brought to death's door by disgrace, and the impossibility of being restored by the
unexpected opening of a brilliant career.

The Prince, against the custom of those of his rank, had been very well educated.  He was full
of instruction.  The disorders of his life had clouded his knowledge but not extinguished it,
and he often read to brush up his learning.  He chose M. de la Tour to prepare him, and help
him to die well.  He was so attached to life that all his courage was required. For three months
crowds of visitors filled his palace, and the people even collected in the place before it.
The churches echoed with prayers for his life.  The members of his family often went to pay
for masses for him; and found that others had already done so.  All questions were about his
health.  People stopped each other in the street to inquire; passers- by were called to by
shopmen, anxious to know whether the Prince de Conti was to live or to die.  Amidst all this,
Monseigneur never visited him; and, to the indignation of all Paris, passed along the quay
near the Louvre going to the Opera, whilst the sacraments were being carried to the Prince
on the other side.  He was compelled by public opinion to make a short visit after this.  The
Prince died at last in his arm-chair, surrounded by a few worthy people.  Regrets were universal;
but perhaps he gained by his disgrace.  His heart was firmer than his head.  He might have
been timid at the head of an army or in the Council of the King if he had entered it.  The
King was much relieved by his death; Madame de Maintenon also; M. le Duc much more; for M.
du Maine it was a deliverance, and for M. de Vendome a consolation.  Monseigneur learned it
at Meudon as he was going out to hunt, and showed no feeling of any kind.

The death of M. le Prince de Conti seemed to the Duc de Vendome a considerable advantage, because
he was thus delivered from a rival most embarrassing by the superiority of his birth, just
when he was about to be placed in a high military position.  I have already mentioned Vendome's
exclusion from command.  The fall of this Prince of the Proud had been begun we have now reached
the second step, between which and the third there was a space of between two and three months;
but as the third had no connection with any other event, I will relate it at once.

Whatever reasons existed to induce the King to take from M. de Vendome the command of his armies,
I know not if all the art and credit of Madame de Maintenon would not have been employed in
vain, together with the intrigues of M. du Maine, without an adventure, which I must at once
explain, to set before the reader's eyes the issue of the terrible struggle, pushed to such
extremes, between Vendome, seconded by his formidable cabal, and the necessary, heir of the
Crown, supported by his wife, the favourite of the King, and Madame de Maintenon, which last;
to speak clearly, as all the Court saw, for thirty years governed him completely.

When M. de Vendome returned from Flanders, he had a short interview with the King, in which
he made many bitter complaints against Pursegur, one of his lieutenant-generals, whose sole
offence was that he was much attached to M. de Bourgogne.  Pursegur was a great favourite with
the King, and often, on account of the business of the infantry regiment, of which the thought
himself the private colonel, had private interviews with him, and was held in high estimation
for his capacity and virtue. He, in his turn, came back from Flanders, and had a private audience
of the King.  The complaints that had been made against him by M. de Vendome were repeated
to him by the King, who, however, did not mention from whom they came.  Pursegur defended himself
so well, that the King in his surprise mentioned this latter fact.  At the name of Vendome,
Pursegur lost all patience.  He described, to the King all the faults, the impertinences; the
obstinacy, the insolence of M. de Vendome, with a precision and clearness which made his listener
very attentive and very fruitful in questions.  Pursegur, seeing that he might go on, gave
himself rein, unmasked M. de Vendome from top to toe, described his ordinary life at the army,
the incapacity of his body, the incapacity of his judgment, the prejudice of his mind, the
absurdity and crudity of his maxims, his utter ignorance of the art of war, and showed to demonstration,
that it was only by a profusion of miracles France had not been ruined by him--lost a hundred
times over.

The conversation lasted more than two hours.  The' King, long since convinced of the capacity,
fidelity, and truthfulness of Pursegur, at last opened his eyes to the truth respecting this
Vendome, hidden with so much art until then, and regarded as a hero and the tutelary genius
of France.  He was vexed and ashamed of his credulity, and from the date of this conversation
Vendome fell at once from his favour.

Pursegur, naturally humble, gentle, and modest, but truthful, and on this occasion piqued,
went out into the gallery after his conversation, and made a general report of it to all, virtuously,
braving Vendome and all his cabal.  This cabal trembled with rage; Vendome still more so. 
They answered by miserable reasonings, which nobody cared for.  This was what led to the suppression
of his pay, and his retirement to Anet, where he affected a philosophical indifference.

Crestfallen as he was, he continued to sustain at Meudon and Marly the grand manners he had
usurped at the time of his prosperity.  After having got over the first embarrassment, he put
on again his haughty air, and ruled the roast.  To see him at Meudon you would have said he
was certainly the master of the saloon, and by his free and easy manner to Monseigneur, and,
when he dared, to the King, he would have been thought the principal person there.  Monseigneur
de Bourgogne supported this--his piety made him do so--but Madame de Bourgogne was grievously
offended, and watched her opportunity to get rid of M. de Vendome altogether.

It came, the first journey the King made to Marly after Easter.  'Brelan' was then the fashion.
Monseigneur, playing at it one day with Madame de Bourgogne and others, and being in want of
a fifth player, sent for M. de Vendome from the other end of the saloon, to come and join the
party. That instant Madame de Bourgogne said modestly, but very intelligibly, to Monseigneur,
that the presence of M. de Vendome at Marly was sufficiently painful to her, without having
him at play with her, and that she begged he might be dispensed with.  Monseigneur, who had
sent for Vendome without the slightest reflection, looked round the room, and sent for somebody
else.  When Vendome arrived, his place was taken, and he had to suffer this annoyance before
all the company.  It may be imagined to what an extent this superb gentleman was stung by the
affront.  He served no longer; he commanded no longer; he was no longer the adored idol; he
found himself in the paternal mansion of the Prince he had so cruelly offended, and the outraged
wife of that Prince was more than a match for him.  He turned upon his heel, absented himself
from the room as soon as he could, and retired to his own chamber, there to storm at his leisure.

Other and more cruel annoyances were yet in store for him, however. Madame de Bourgogne reflected
on what had just taken place.  The facility with which she had succeeded in one respect encouraged
her, but she was a little troubled to know how the King would take what she had done, and accordingly,
whilst playing, she resolved to push matters still further, both to ruin her guest utterly
and to get out of her embarrassment; for, despite her extreme familiarity, she was easily embarrassed,
being gentle and timid.  The 'brelan' over, she ran to Madame de Maintenon; told her what had
just occurred; said that the presence of M. de Vendome at Marly was a continual insult to her;
and begged her to solicit the King to forbid M. de Vendome to come there.  Madame de Maintenon,
only too glad. to have an opportunity of revenging herself upon an enemy who had set her at
defiance, and against whom all her batteries had at one time failed, consented to this request.
She spoke out to the King, who, completely weary of M. de Vendome, and troubled to have under
his eyes a man whom he could not doubt was discontented, at once granted what was asked.  Before
going to bed, he charged one of his valets to tell M. de Vendome the next morning, that henceforth
he was to absent himself from Marly, his presence there being disagreeable to Madame de Bourgogne.

It may be imagined into what an excess of despair M. de Vendome fell, at a message so unexpected,
and which sapped the foundations of all his hopes.  He kept silent, however, for fear of making
matters worse, did not venture attempting, to speak to the King, and hastily retired to Clichy
to hide his rage and shame.  The news of his banishment from Marly soon spread abroad, and
made so much stir, that to show it was not worth attention, he returned two days before the
end of the visit, and stopped until the end in a continual shame and embarrassment.  He set
out for Anet at the same time that the King set out for Versailles, and has never since put
his foot in Marly.

But another bitter draught was to be mixed for him.  Banished from Marly, he had yet the privilege
of going to Meudon.  He did not fail to avail himself of this every time Monseigneur was there,
and stopped as long as he stopped, although in the times of his splendour he had never stayed
more than one or two days.  It was seldom that Monseigneur visited Meudon without Madame la
Duchesse de Bourgogne going to see him.  And yet M. de Vendome never failed audaciously to
present himself before her, as if to make her feel that at all events in Monseigneur's house
he was a match for her.  Guided by former experience, the Princess gently suffered this in
silence, and watched her opportunity.  It soon came.

Two months afterwards it happened that, while Monseigneur was at Meudon, the King, Madame de
Maintenon; and Madame de Bourgogne, came to dine with him.  Madame de Maintenon wished to talk
with Mademoiselle Choin without sending for her to Versailles, and the King, as may be believed,
was in the secret.  I mention this to account for the King's visit. M. de Vendome;: who was
at Meudon as usual, was stupid enough to present himself at the coach door as the King and
his companions descended. Madame de Bourgogne was much offended, constrained herself less than
usual, and turned away her head with affectation, after a sort of sham salute.  He felt the
sting, but had the folly to approach her again after dinner, while she was playing.  He experienced
the same treatment, but this time in a still more marked manner.  Stung to the quick and out
of countenance, he went up to his chamber, and did not descend until very late.  During this
time Madame de Bourgogne spoke to Monseigneur of the conduct of M. de Vendorne, and the same
evening she addressed herself to Madame de Maintenon, and openly complained to the King.  She
represented to him how hard it was to her to be treated by Monseigneur with less respect than
by the King: for while the latter had banished M. de Vendome from Marly, the former continued
to grant him an asylum at Meudon.

M. de Vendome, on his side, complained bitterly to Monseigneur of the strange persecution that
he suffered everywhere from Madame de Bourgogne; but Monseigneur replied to him so coldly that
he withdrew with tears in his eyes, determined, however, not to give up until he had obtained
some sort of satisfaction.  He set his friends to work to speak to Monseigneur; all they could
draw from him was, that M. de Vendome must avoid Madame de Bourgogne whenever she came to Meudon,
and that it was the smallest respect he owed her until she was reconciled to him.  A reply
so dry and so precise was cruelly felt; but M. de Vendome was not at the end of the chastisement
he had more than merited.  The next day put an end to all discussion upon the matter.

He was card-playing after dinner in a private cabinet, when D'Antin arrived from Versailles.
He approached the players, and asked what was the position of the game, with an eagerness which
made M. de Vendome inquire the reason.  D'Antin said he had to render an account to him of
the matter he had entrusted him with.

"I!" exclaimed Vendome, with surprise, "I have entrusted you with nothing."

"Pardon me," replied D'Antin; "you do not recollect, then, that I have an answer to make to you?"

From this perseverance M. de Vendome comprehended that something was amiss, quitted his game,
and went into an obscure wardrobe with D'Antin, who told him that he had been ordered by the
King to beg Monseigneur not to invite M. de Vendome to Meudon any more; that his presence there
was as unpleasant to Madame de Bourgogne as it had been at Marly.  Upon this, Vendome, transported
with fury, vomited forth all that his rage inspired him with.  He spoke to Monseigneur in the
evening, but was listened to as coldly as before.  Vendome passed the rest of his visit in
a rage and embarrassment easy to conceive, and on the day Monseigneur returned to Versailles
he hurried straight to Anet.

But he was unable to remain quiet anywhere; so went off with his dogs, under pretence of going
a hunting, to pass a month in his estate of La Ferme-Aleps, where he had no proper lodging
and no society, and gave there free vent to his rage.  Thence he returned again to Anet, where
he remained abandoned by every one.  Into this solitude, into this startling and public seclusion,
incapable of sustaining a fall so complete, after a long habit of attaining everything, and
doing everything he pleased, of being the idol of the world, of the Court, of the armies, of
making his very vices adored, and his greatest faults admired, his defects commended, so that
he dared to conceive the prodigious design of ruining and destroying the necessary heir of
the Crown, though he had never received anything but evidences of tenderness from him, and
triumphed over him for eight months with the most scandalous success; it was, I say, thus that
this Colossus was overthrown by the breath of a prudent and courageous princess, who earned
by this act merited applause.  All who were concerned with her, were charmed to see of what
she was capable; and all who were opposed to her and her husband trembled.  The cabal, so formidable,
so lofty, so accredited, so closely united to overthrow them, and reign, after the King, under
Monseigneur in their place--these chiefs, male and female, so enterprising and audacious, fell
now into mortal discouragement and fear.  It was a pleasure to see them work their way back
with art and extreme humility, and turn round those of the opposite party who remained influential,
and whom they had hitherto despised; and especially to see with what embarrassment, what fear,
what terror, they began to crawl before the young Princess, and wretchedly court the Duc de
Bourgogne and his friends, and bend to them in the most extraordinary manner.

As for M. de Vendome, without any resource, save what he found in his vices and his valets,
he did not refrain from bragging among them of the friendship of Monseigneur for him, of which
he said he was well assured. Violence had been done to Monseigneur's feelings.  He was reduced
to this misery of hoping that his words would be spread about by these valets, and would procure
him some consideration from those who thought of the future.  But the present was insupportable
to him.  To escape from it, he thought of serving in Spain, and wrote to Madame des Ursins
asking employment.  The King was annoyed at this step, and flatly refused to let him go to
Spain.  His intrigue, therefore, came to an end at once.

Nobody gained more by the fall of M. de Vendome than Madame de Maintenon. Besides the joy she
felt in overthrowing a man who, through M. du Maine, owed everything to her, and yet dared
to resist her so long and successfully, she felt, also, that her credit became still more the
terror of the Court; for no one doubted that what had occurred was a great example of her power.
We shall presently see how she furnished another, which startled no less.

CHAPTER XLVI.

It is time now to retrace my steps to the point from which I have been led away in relating
all the incidents which arose out of the terrible winter and the scarcity it caused.

The Court at that time beheld the renewal of a ministry; which from the time it had lasted
was worn down to its very roots, and which was on that account only the more agreeable to the
King.  On the 20th of January, the Pere La Chaise, the confessor of the King, died at a very
advanced age.  He was of good family, and his father would have been rich had he not had a
dozen children.  Pere La Chaise succeeded in 1675 to Pere Ferrier as confessor of the King,
and occupied that post thirty-two years.  The festival of Easter often caused him politic absences
during the attachment of the King for Madame de Montespan.  On one occasion he sent in his
place the Pere Deschamps, who bravely refused absolution. The Pere La Chaise was of mediocre
mind but of good character, just, upright, sensible, prudent, gentle, and moderate, an enemy
of informers, and of violence of every kind. He kept clear of many scandalous transactions,
befriended the Archbishop of Cambrai as much as he could, refused to push the Port Royal des
Champs to its destruction, and always had on his table a copy of the New Testament of Pere
Quesnel, saying that he liked what was good wherever he found it.  When near his eightieth
year, with his head and his health still good, he wished to retire, but the King would not
hear of it.  Soon after, his faculties became worn out, and feeling this, he repeated his wish.
The Jesuits, who perceived his failing more than he did himself, and felt the diminution of
his credit, exhorted him to make way for another who should have the grace and zeal of novelty.
For his part he sincerely desired repose, and he pressed the King to allow him to take it,
but all in vain.  He was obliged to bear his burthen to the very end.  Even the infirmities
and the decrepitude that afflicted could not deliver him.  Decaying legs, memory extinguished,
judgment collapsed, all his faculties confused, strange inconveniences for a confessor--nothing
could disgust the King, and he persisted in having this corpse brought to him and carrying
on customary business with it.  At last, two days after a return from Versailles, he grew much
weaker, received the sacrament, wrote with his own hand a long letter to the King, received
a very rapid and hurried one in reply, and soon after died at five o'clock in the morning very
peaceably.  His confessor asked him two things, whether he had acted according to his conscience,
and whether he had thought of the interests and honour of the company of Jesuits; and to both
these questions he answered satisfactorily.

The news was brought to the King as he came out of his cabinet.  He received it like a Prince
accustomed to losses, praised the Pere La Chaise for his goodness, and then said smilingly,
before all the courtiers, and quite aloud, to the two fathers who had come to announce the
death: "He was so good that I sometimes reproached him for it, and he used to reply to me:
'It is not I who am good; it is you who are hard.'"

Truly the fathers and all the auditors were so surprised at this that they lowered their eyes.
The remark spread directly; nobody was able to blame the Pere La Chaise.  He was generally
regretted, for he had done much good and never harm except in self-defence.  Marechal, first
surgeon of the King, and possessed of his confidence, related once to me and Madame de Saint-Simon,
a very important anecdote referring to this time. He said that the King, talking to him privately
of the Pere La Chaise, and praising him for his attachment, related one of the great proofs
he had given of it.  A few years before his death the Pere said that he felt getting old, and
that the King might soon have to choose a new confessor; he begged that that confessor might
be chosen from among the Jesuits, that he knew them well, that they were far from deserving
all that had been said against them, but still--he knew them well--and that attachment for
the King and desire for his safety induced him to conjure him to act as he requested; because
the company contained many sorts of minds and characters which could not be answered for, and
must not be reduced to despair, and that the King must not incur a risk--that in fact an unlucky
blow is soon given, and had been given before then.  Marechal turned pale at this recital of
the King, and concealed as well as he could the disorder it caused in him.  We must remember
that Henry IV. recalled the Jesuits, and loaded them with gifts merely from fear of them. 
The King was not superior to Henry IV.  He took care not to forget the communication of the
Pere La Chaise, or expose himself to the vengeance of the company by choosing a confessor out
of their limits.  He wanted to live, and to live in safety.  He requested the Ducs de Chevreuse
and de Beauvilliers to make secret inquiries for a proper person.  They fell into a trap made,
were dupes themselves, and the Church and State the victims.

The Pere Tellier, in fact, was chosen as successor of Pere La Chaise, and a terrible successor
he made.  Harsh, exact, laborious, enemy of all dissipation, of all amusement, of all society,
incapable of associating even with his colleagues, he demanded no leniency for himself and
accorded none to others.  His brain and his health were of iron; his conduct was so also; his
nature was savage and cruel.  He was profoundly false, deceitful, hidden under a thousand folds;
and when he could show himself and make himself feared, he yielded nothing, laughed at the
most express promises when he no longer cared to keep to them, and pursued with fury those
who had trusted to them.  He was the terror even of the Jesuits, and was so violent to them
that they scarcely dared approach him.  His exterior kept faith with his interior.  He would
have been terrible to meet in a dark lane.  His physiognomy was cloudy, false, terrible; his
eyes were burning, evil, extremely squinting; his aspect struck all with dismay.  The whole
aim of his life was to advance the interests of his Society; that was his god; his life had
been absorbed in that study: surprisingly ignorant, insolent, impudent, impetuous, without
measure and without discretion, all means were good that furthered his designs.

The first time Pere Tellier saw the King in his cabinet, after having been presented to him,
there was nobody but Bloin and Fagon in a corner. Fagon, bent double and leaning on his stick,
watched the interview and studied the physiognomy of this new personage his duckings, and scrapings,
and his words.  The King asked him if he were a relation of MM. le Tellier.  The good father
humbled himself in the dust.  "I, Sire!" answered he, "a relative of MM. le Tellier!  I am
very different from that.  I am a poor peasant of Lower Normandy, where my father was a farmer."
Fagon, who watched him in every movement, twisted himself up to look at Bloin, and said, pointing
to the Jesuit: "Monsieur, what a cursed --------!"  Then shrugging his shoulders, he curved
over his stick again.

It turned out that he was not mistaken in his strange judgment of a confessor.  This Tellier
made all the grimaces, not to say the hypocritical monkey-tricks of a man who was afraid of
his place, and only took it out of, deference to his company.

I have dwelt thus upon this new confessor, because from him have come the incredible tempests
under, which the Church, the State, knowledge, and doctrine, and many good people of all kinds,
are still groaning; and, because I had a more intimate acquaintance with this terrible personage
than had any man at the Court.  He introduced himself to me in fact, to my surprise; and although
I did all in my power to shun his acquaintance, I could not succeed.  He was too dangerous
a man to be treated with anything but great prudence.

During the autumn of this year, he gave a sample of his quality in the part he took in the
destruction of the celebrated monastery of Port Royal des Champs.  I need not dwell at any
great length upon the origin and progress of the two religious parties, the Jansenists and
the Molinists; enough has been written on both sides to form a whole library.  It is enough
for me to say that the Molinists were so called because they adopted the views expounded by,
the Pere Molina in a book he wrote against the doctrines of St. Augustine and of the Church
of Rome, upon the subject of spiritual grace.  The Pere Molina was a Jesuit, and it was by
the Jesuits his book was brought forward and supported.  Finding, however, that the views it
expounded met with general opposition, not only throughout France, but at Rome, they had recourse
to their usual artifices on feeling themselves embarrassed, turned themselves into accusers
instead of defendants, and invented a heresy that had neither author nor follower, which they
attributed to Cornelius Jansenius, Bishop of Ypres.  Many and long were the discussions at
Rome upon this ideal heresy, invented by the Jesuits solely for the purpose of weakening the
adversaries of Molina.  To oppose his doctrines was to be a Jansenist. That in substance was
what was meant by Jansenism.

At the monastery of Port Royal des Champs, a number of holy and learned personages lived in
retirement.  Some wrote, some gathered youths around them, and instructed them in science and
piety.  The finest moral works, works which have thrown the most light upon the science and
practice, of religion, and have been found so by everybody, issued from their hands. These
men entered into the quarrel against Molinism.  This was enough to excite against them the
hatred of the Jesuits and to determine that body to attempt their destruction.

They were accused of Jansenism, and defended themselves perfectly; but at the same time they
carried the war into the enemy's camp, especially by the ingenious "Provincial Letters" of
the famous Pascal.

