But Peter has left a hole in our lives. I keep feeling that he's merely out on the land and
will be coming in with that quiet and remote smile of his and talking like mad through a meal
that I always had an incentive for making a little more tempting than the ordinary grub-rustling
of a clodhopper.

The only person about Alabama Ranch who seems undisturbed by Peter's departure is Whinstane
Sandy. He reminds me of a decrepit but robustious old rooster repossessing himself of a chicken-run
after the decapitation of an arrogant and envied rival. He has with a dour sort of blitheness
connected up the windmill pump, in his spare time, and run a pipe in through the kitchen wall
and rigged up a sink, out of a galvanized pig-trough. It may not be lovely to the eye, but
it will save many a step about this shack of ours. And the steps count, now that the season's
work is breaking over us like a Jersey surf!

                     Thursday the Twenty-sixth

I've got Struthers in jumpers, and she's learning how to handle a team. Whinnie laughed at
her legs, and said they made him think a-muckle o' a heron. But men are scarce in this section,
and it looks as though Alabama Ranch was going to have a real wheat crop. Whinnie boasts that
we're three weeks ahead of Casa Grande, which, they tell me, is taking on a neglected look.

I've had no message from my Dinky-Dunk, and no news of him. All day long, at the back of my
brain, a nervous little mouse of anxiety keeps nibbling and nibbling away. Last night, when
she was helping me get the Twins ready for bed, Struthers confided to me that she felt sure
Lady Alicia and my husband had been playmates together in England at one time, for she's heard
them talking, and laughing about things that had happened long ago. But it's not the things
that happened long ago that are worrying me. It's the things that may be happening now.

I wonder what the fair Lady Alicia intends doing about getting her crop off. Sing Lo will scarcely
be the man to master that problem.... The Lord knows I'm busy enough, but I seem to be eternally
waiting for something. I wonder if every woman's life has a larval period like this? I've my
children and Bobs. Over my heart, all day long, should flow a deep and steady current of love.
But it's not the kind I've a craving for. There's something missing. I've been wondering if
Dinky-Dunk, even though he were here at my side, would still find any "kick" in my kisses.
I can't understand why he never revealed to me the fact that he and Lady Allie were playmates
as children. In that case, she must be considerably older than she looks. But old or young,
I wish she'd stayed in England with her croquet and pat-tennis and broom-stick-cricket, instead
of coming out here and majestically announcing that nothing was to be expected of a country
which had no railway porters!

                        Wednesday the First

The departed Peter has sent back to us a Victrola and a neatly packed box of records. Surely
that was kind of him. I suppose he felt that I needed something more than a banjo to keep my
melodious soul alive. He may be right, for sometimes during these long and hot and tiring days
I feel as though my spirit had been vitrified and macadamized. But I haven't yet had time to
unpack the music-box and get it in working-order, though I've had a look through the records.
There are quite a number of my old favorites. I notice among them a song from The Bohemian
Girl. It bears the title of Then You'll Remember Me. Poor old Peter! For when I play it, I
know I'll always be thinking of another man.

                          Sunday the Fifth

Life is a club from which Cupid can never be blackballed. I notice that Struthers, who seems
intent on the capture of a soul-mate, has taken to darning Whinstane Sandy's socks for him.
And Whinnie, who is a bit of a cobbler as well as being a bit of renegade to the ranks of the
misogynists, has put new heels and soles on the number sevens which Struthers wears at the
extremities of her heron-like limbs. Thus romance, beginning at the metatarsus, slowly but
surely ascends to the diastolic region!

                        Wednesday the Eighth

I've just had a nice little note from Peter, written from the Aldine Club in Philadelphia,
saying he'd neglected to mention something which had been on his mind for some time. He has
a slightly rundown place in the suburbs of Pasadena, he went on to explain, and as his lazy
summer would mean he'd have to remain in the East and be an ink-coolie all winter, the place
was at my disposal if it so turned out that a winter in California seemed desirable for me
and my kiddies. It would, in fact, be a God-send--so he protested--to have somebody dependable
lodged in that empty house, to keep the cobwebs out of the corners and the mildew off his books
and save the whole disintegrating shebang from the general rack and ruin which usually overtakes
empty mansions of that type. He gave me the name and address of the caretaker, on Euclid Avenue,
and concluded by saying it wasn't very much of a place, but might be endured for a winter for
the sake of the climate, if I happened to be looking for a sunnier corner of the world than
Alabama Ranch. He further announced that he'd give an arm to see little Dinkie's face when
that young outlaw stole his first ripe orange from the big Valencia tree in the patio. And
Peter, in a post-script, averred that he could vouch for the flavor of the aforementioned Valencias.

                       Tuesday the Fourteenth

Whinstane Sandy about the middle of last week brought home the startling information that Sing
Lo had sold Lady Allie's heavy work-team to Bud O'Malley for the paltry sum of sixty dollars.
He further reported that Sing Lo had decamped, taking with him as rich a haul as he could carry.

I was in doubt on what to do, for a while. But I eventually decided to go in to Buckhorn and
send a telegram to the owner of Casa Grande. I felt sure, if Lady Allie was in Banff, that
she'd be at the C. P. R. hotel there, and that even if she had gone on to the Anglesey Ranch
my telegram would be forwarded to Wallachie. So I wired her: "Chinaman left in charge has been
selling ranch property. Advise me what action you wish taken."

A two-day wait brought no reply to this, so I then telegraphed to the hotel-manager asking
for information as to her ladyship. I was anxious for that information, I'll confess, for more
personal reasons than those arising out of the activities of Sing Lo.

When I went in for my house supplies on Friday there was a message there from the Banff hotel-manager
stating that Lady Newland had left, ten days before, for the Empress Hotel in Victoria. So
I promptly wired that hotel, only to learn that my titled wanderer might be found in San Francisco,
at the Hotel St. Francis. So I repeated my message; and yesterday morning Hy Teetzel, homeward
bound from Buckhorn in his tin Lizzie, brought the long-expected reply out to me. It read:

"Would advise consulting my ranch manager on the matter mentioned in your wire," and was signed
"Alicia Newland."

There was a sense of satisfaction in having located the lady, but there was a distinctly nettling
note in the tenor of that little message. I decided, accordingly, to give her the retort courteous
by wiring back to her: "Kindly advise me of ranch manager's present whereabouts," and at the
bottom of that message inscribed, "Mrs. Duncan Argyll McKail."

And I've been smiling a little at the telegram which has just been sent on to me, for now that
I come to review our electric intercourse in a cooler frame of mind it looks suspiciously like
back-biting over a thousand miles of telegraph-wire. This second message from San Francisco
said: "Have no knowledge whatever of the gentleman's movements or whereabouts."

It was, I found, both a pleasant and a puzzling bit of information, and my earlier regrets
at wasting time that I could ill spare betrayed a tendency to evaporate. It was satisfying,
and yet it was not satisfying, for morose little doubts as to the veracity of the lady in question
kept creeping back into my mind. It also left everything pretty much up in the air, so I've
decided to take things in my own hand and go to Casa Grande and look things over.

                       Thursday the Sixteenth

I didn't go over to Casa Grande, after all. For this morning the news came to me that Duncan
had been back since day before yesterday. And he is undoubtedly doing anything that needs to
be done.

But the lady lied, after all. That fact now is only too apparent. And her equerry has been
hurried back to look after her harried estate. The live stock, I hear, went without water for
three whole days, and the poultry would all have been in kingdom-come if Sing Lo, in choosing
a few choice birds for his private consumption, hadn't happened to leave the run-door unlatched....

I was foolish enough to expect, of course, that Duncan might nurse some slight curiosity as
to his family and its welfare. This will be his third day back, and he has neither put in an
appearance nor sent a word. He's busy, of course, with that tangle to unravel--but where there's
a will there's usually a way. And hope dies hard. Yet day by day I find less bitterness in
my heart. Those earlier hot tides of resentment have been succeeded, not by tranquillity or
even indifference, but by a colder and more judicial attitude toward things in general. I've
got a home and a family to fight for--not to mention a baby with prickly-heat--and they must
not be forgotten. I have the consolation, too, of knowing that the fight doesn't promise to
be a losing one. I've banked on wheat, and old Mother Earth is not going to betray me. My grain
has ripened miraculously during these last few weeks of hot dry weather. It's too hot, in fact,
for my harvest threatens to come on with a rush. But we'll scramble through it, in some way.

                       Sunday the Nineteenth

It's only three days since I wrote those last lines. But it seems a long time back to last
Thursday. So many, many things have happened since then.

Friday morning broke very hot, and without a breath of wind. By noon it was stifling. By mid-afternoon
I felt strangely tired, and even more strangely depressed. I even attempted to shake myself
together, arguing that my condition was purely mental, for I had remembered that it was unmistakably
Friday, a day of ill-omen to the superstitious.

I was surprised, between four and five, to see Whinstane Sandy come in from his work and busy
himself about the stables. When I asked him the reason for this premature withdrawal he pointed
toward a low and meek-looking bank of clouds just above the southwest sky-line and announced
that we were going to have a "blow," as he called it.

I was inclined to doubt this, for the sun was still shining, there was no trace of a breeze,
and the sky straight over my head was a pellucid pale azure. But, when I came to notice it,
there was an unusual, small stir among my chickens, the cattle were restless, and one would
occasionally hold its nose high in the air and then indulge in a lowing sound. Even Bobs moved
peevishly from place to place, plainly disturbed by more than the flies and the heat. I had
a feeling, myself, of not being able to get enough air into my lungs, a depressed and disturbed
feeling which was nothing more than the barometer of my body trying to tell me that the glass
was falling, and falling forebodingly.

By this time I could see Whinnie's cloud-bank rising higher above the horizon and becoming
more ragged as it mushroomed into anvil-shaped turrets. Then a sigh or two of hot air, hotter
even than the air about us, disturbed the quietness and made the level floor of my yellowing
wheat undulate a little, like a breast that has taken a quiet breath or two. Then faint and
far-off came a sound like the leisurely firing of big guns, becoming quicker and louder as
the ragged arch of the storm crept over the sun and marched down on us with strange twistings
and writhings and up-boilings of its tawny mane.

"Ye'd best be makin' things ready!" Whinnie called out to me. But even before I had my windows
down little eddies of dust were circling about the shack. Then came a long and sucking sigh
of wind, followed by a hot calm too horrible to be endured, a hot calm from the stifling center
of which your spirit cried out for whatever was destined to happen to happen at once. The next
moment brought its answer to that foolish prayer, a whining and whistling of wind that shook
our little shell of a house on its foundations, a lurid flash or two, and then the tumult of
the storm itself.

The room where I stood with my children grew suddenly and uncannily dark. I could hear Struthers
calling thinly from the kitchen door to Whinnie, who apparently was making a belated effort
to get my chicken-run gate open and my fowls under cover. I could hear a scattering drive of
big rain-drops on the roof, solemn and soft, like the fall of plump frogs. But by the time
Whinnie was in through the kitchen door this had changed. It had changed into a passionate
and pulsing beat of rain, whipped and lashed by the wind that shook the timbers about us. The
air, however, was cooler by this time, and it was easier to breathe. So I found it hard to
understand why Whinnie, as he stood in the half-light by one of the windows, should wear such
a look of protest on his morose old face which was the color of a pigskin saddle just under
the stirrup-flap.

Even when I heard one solitary thump on the roof over my head, as distinct as the thump of
a hammer, I failed to understand what was worrying my hired man. Then, after a momentary pause
in the rain, the thumps were repeated. They were repeated in a rattle which became a clatter
and soon grew into one continuous stream of sound, like a thousand machine-guns all going off
at once.

I realized then what it meant, what it was. It was hail. And it meant that we were being "hailed
out."

We were being cannonaded with shrapnel from the skies. We were being deluged with blocks of
ice almost the size of duck-eggs. So thunderous was the noise that I had no remembrance when
the window-panes on the west side of the house were broken. It wasn't, in fact, until I beheld
the wind and water blowing in through the broken sashes that I awakened to what had happened.
But I did nothing to stop the flood. I merely sat there with my two babes in my arms and my
Dinkie pressed in close between my knees, in a foolishly crouching and uncomfortable position,
as though I wanted to shield their tender little bodies with my own. I remember seeing Struthers
run gabbing and screaming about the room and then try to bury herself under her mattress, like
the silly old she-ostrich she was, with her number sevens sticking out from under the bedding.
I remember seeing Whinnie picking up one of the white things that had rolled in through the
broken window. It was oblong, and about as big as a pullet's egg, but more irregular in shape.
It was clear on the outside but milky at the center, making me think of a half-cooked globe
of tapioca. But it was a stone of solid ice. And thousands and thousands of stones like that,
millions of them, were descending on my wheat, were thrashing down my half-ripened oats, were
flailing the world and beating the life and beauty out of my crops.

The storm ended almost as abruptly as it had begun. The hammers of Thor that were trying to
pound my lonely little prairie-house to pieces were withdrawn, the tumult stopped, and the
light grew stronger. Whinstane Sandy even roused himself and moved toward the door, which he
opened with the hand of a sleep-walker, and stood staring out. I could see reflected in that
seamed old face the desolation which for a minute or two I didn't have the heart to look upon.
I knew, even before I got slowly up and followed him toward the door, that our crop was gone,
that we had lost everything.

I stood in the doorway, staring out at what, only that morning, had been a world golden with
promise, rich and bountiful and beautiful to the eye and blessed in the sight of God. And now,
at one stroke, it was all wiped out. As far as the eye could see I beheld only flattened and
shredded ruin. Every acre of my crop was gone. My year's work had been for nothing, my blind
planning, my petty scheming and contriving, my foolish little hopes and dreams, all, all were
there, beaten down into the mud.

Yet, oddly enough, it did not stir in me any quick and angry passion of protest. It merely
left me mute and stunned, staring at it with the eyes of the ox, with a dull wonder in my heart
and a duller sense of deprivation away off at the back of my brain. I scarcely noticed when
little Dinkie toddled out and possessed himself of a number of the larger hailstones, which
he promptly proceeded to suck. When a smaller one melted in the warmth of his hand, he stared
down at the emptiness between his little brown fingers, wondering where his pretty pebble had
vanished to, just as I wondered where my crop had gone.

But it's gone. There's no doubt of that. The hail went from southwest to northeast, in a streak
about three miles wide, like a conquering army, licking up everything as it went. Whinnie says
that it's the will of God. Struthers, resurrected from her mattress, proclaims that it's Fate
punishing us for our sins. My head tells me that it's barometric laws, operating along their
own ineluctable lines. But that doesn't salve the sore.

For the rest of the afternoon we stood about like Italian peasants after an earthquake, possessed
of a sort of collective mutism, doing nothing, saying nothing, thinking nothing. Even my seven
dead pullets, which had been battered to death by the hail, were left to lie where they had
fallen. I noticed a canvas carrier for a binder which Whinnie had been mending. It was riddled
like a sieve. If this worried me, it worried me only vaguely. It wasn't until I remembered
that there would be no wheat for that binder to cut and no sheaves for that carrier to bear,
that the extent of what had befallen Alabama Ranch once more came fully home to me. It takes
time to digest such things, just as it takes time to reorganize your world. The McKails, for
the second time, have been cleaned to the bones. We ought to be getting used to it, for it's
the second time we've gone bust in a year!

It wasn't until yesterday morning that any kind of perspective came back to us. I went to bed
the night before wondering about Dinky-Dunk and hoping against hope that he'd come galloping
over to make sure his family were still in the land of the living. But he didn't come. And
before noon I learned that Casa Grande had not been touched by the hail. That at least was
a relief, for it meant that Duncan was safe and sound.

In a way, yesterday, there was nothing to do, and yet there was a great deal to do. It reminded
me of the righting up after a funeral. But I refused to think of anything beyond the immediate
tasks in hand. I just did what had to be done, and went to bed again dog-tired. But I had nightmare,
and woke up in the middle of the night crying for all I was worth. I seemed alone in an empty
world, a world without meaning or mercy, and there in the blackness of the night when the tides
of life run lowest, I lay with my hand pressed against my heart, with the feeling that there
was nothing whatever left in existence to make it worth while. Then Pee-Wee stirred and whimpered,
and when I lifted him into my bed and held him against my breast, the nearness of his body
brought warmth and consolation to mine, and I remembered that I was still a mother....

It was this morning (Sunday) that Dinky-Dunk appeared at Alabama Ranch. I had looked for him
and longed for him, in secret, and my heart should have leapt up with gladness at the sight
of him. But it didn't. It couldn't. It was like asking a millstone to pirouette.

In the first place, everything seemed wrong. I had a cold in the head from the sudden drop
in the temperature, and I was arrayed in that drab old gingham wrapper which Dinkie had cut
holes in with Struthers' scissors, for I hadn't cared much that morning when I dressed whether
I looked like a totem-pole or a Stoney squaw. And the dregs of what I'd been through during
the last two days were still sour in the bottom of my heart. I was a Job in petticoats, a mutineer
against man and God, a nihilist and an I. W. W. all in one. And Dinky-Dunk appeared in Lady
Alicia's car, in her car, carefully togged out in his Sunday best, with that strangely alien
aspect which citified clothes can give to the rural toiler when he emerges from the costume
of his kind.

But it wasn't merely that he came arrayed in this outer shell of affluence and prosperity.
It was more that there was a sense of triumph in his heart which he couldn't possibly conceal.
And I wasn't slow to realize what it meant. I was a down-and-outer now, and at his mercy. He
could have his way with me, without any promise of protest. And whatever he might have done,
or might yet do, it was ordained that I in my meekness should bow to the yoke. All that I must
remember was that he stood my lord and master. I had made my foolish little struggle to be
mistress of my own destiny, and now that I had failed, and failed utterly, I must bend to whatever
might be given to me.

"It's hard luck, Chaddie," he said, with a pretense at being sympathetic. But there was no
real sorrow in his eye as he stood there surveying my devastated ranch.

"Nix on that King Cophetua stuff!" I curtly and vulgarly proclaimed.

"Just what do you mean?" he asked, studying my face.

"Kindly can the condescension stuff!" I repeated, taking a wayward satisfaction out of shocking
him with the paraded vulgarity of my phrasing.

"That doesn't sound like you," he said, naturally surprised, I suppose, that I didn't melt
into his arms.

"Why not?" I inquired, noticing that he no longer cared to meet my eye.

"It sounds hard," he said.

"Well, some man has said that a hard soil makes a hard race," I retorted, with a glance about
at my ruined wheatlands. "Did you have a pleasant time in Chicago?"

He looked up quickly.

"I wasn't in Chicago," he promptly protested.

"Then that woman lied, after all," I remarked, with a lump of Scotch granite where my heart
ought to have been. For I could see by his face that he knew, without hesitation, the woman
I meant.

"Isn't that an unnecessarily harsh word?" he asked, trying, of course, to shield her to the
last. And if he had not exactly winced, he had done the next thing to it.

"What would you call it?" I countered. It wouldn't have taken a microphone, I suppose, to discover
the hostility in my tone. "And would it be going too far to inquire just where you were?" I
continued as I saw he had no intention of answering my first question.

"I was at the Coast," he said, compelling himself to meet my glance.

"I'm sorry that I cut your holiday short," I told him.

"It was scarcely a holiday," he remonstrated.

"What would you call it then?" I asked.

"It was purely a business trip," he retorted.

There had, I remembered, been a great deal of that business during the past few months. And
an ice-cold hand squeezed the last hope of hope out of my heart. She had been at the Coast.

"And this belated visit to your wife and children, I presume, is also for business purposes?"
I inquired. But he was able to smile at that, for all my iciness.

"Is it belated?" he asked.

"Wouldn't you call it that?" I quietly inquired.

"But I had to clear up that case of the stolen horses," he protested, "that Sing Lo thievery."

"Which naturally comes before one's family," I ironically reminded him.

"But courts are courts, Chaddie," he maintained, with a pretense of patience.

"And consideration is consideration," I rather wearily amended.

"We can't always do what we want to," he next remarked, apparently intent on being genially
axiomatic.

"Then to what must the humble family attribute this visit?" I inquired, despising that tone
of mockery into which I had fallen yet seeming unable to drag myself out of its muck-bottom depths.

"To announce that I intend to return to them," he asserted, though it didn't seem an easy statement
to make.

It rather took my breath away, for a moment. But Reason remained on her throne. It was too
much like sticking spurs into a dead horse. There was too much that could not be forgotten.
And I calmly reminded Dinky-Dunk that the lightest of heads can sometimes have the longest
of memories.

"Then you don't want me back?" he demanded, apparently embarrassed by my lack of hospitality.

"It all depends on what you mean by that word," I answered, speaking as judicially as I was
able. "If by coming back you mean coming back to this house, I suppose you have a legal right
to do so. But if it means anything more, I'm afraid it can't be done. You see, Dinky-Dunk,
I've got rather used to single harness again, and I've learned to think and act for myself,
and there's a time when continued unfairness can kill the last little spark of friendliness
in any woman's heart. It's not merely that I'm tired of it all. But I'm tired of being tired,
if you know what that means. I don't even know what I'm going to do. Just at present, in fact,
I don't want to think about it. But I'd much prefer being alone until I am able to straighten
things out to my own satisfaction."

"I'm sorry," said Dinky-Dunk, looking so crestfallen that for a moment I in turn felt almost
sorry for him.

"Isn't it rather late for that?" I reminded him.

"Yes, I suppose it is," he admitted, with a disturbing new note of humility. Then he looked
up at me, almost defiantly. "But you need my help."

It was masterful man, once more asserting himself. It was a trivial misstep, but a fatal one.
It betrayed, at a flash, his entire misjudgment of me, of my feelings, of what I was and what
I intended to be.

"I'm afraid I've rather outlived that period of Bashi-Bazookism," I coolly and quietly explained
to my lord and master. "You may have the good luck to be confronting me when I seem to be floored.
I've been hailed out, it's true. But that has happened to other people, and they seem to have
survived. And there are worse calamities, I find, than the loss of a crop."

"Are you referring to anything that I have done?" asked Dinky-Dunk, with a slightly belligerent
look in his eye.

"If the shoe fits, put it on," I observed.

"But there are certain things I want to explain," he tried to argue, with the look of a man
confronted by an overdraft on his patience.

"Somebody has said that a friend," I reminded him, "is a person to whom one need never explain.
And any necessity for explanation, you see, removes us even from the realm of friendship."

"But, hang it all, I'm your husband," protested my obtuse and somewhat indignant interlocutor.

"We all have our misfortunes," I found the heart, or rather the absence of heart, to remark.

"I'm afraid this isn't a very good beginning," said Dinky-Dunk, his dignity more ruffled than ever.

"It's not a beginning at all," I reminded him. "It's more like an ending."

That kept him silent for quite a long while.

"I suppose you despise me," he finally remarked.

"It's scarcely so active an emotion," I tried to punish him by retorting.

"But I at least insist on explaining what took me to the Coast," he contended.

"That is scarcely necessary," I told him.

"Then you know?" he asked.

"I imagine the whole country-side does," I observed.

He made a movement of mixed anger and protest.

"I went to Vancouver because the government had agreed to take over my Vancouver Island water-front
for their new shipbuilding yards. If you've forgotten just what that means, I'd like to remind
you that there's----"

"I don't happen to have forgotten," I interrupted, wondering why news which at one time would
have set me on fire could now leave me quite cold. "But what caused the government to change
its mind?"

"Allie!" he said, after a moment's hesitation, fixing a slightly combative eye on mine.

"She seems to have almost unlimited powers," I observed as coolly as I could, making an effort
to get my scattered thoughts into line again.

"On the contrary," Dinky-Dunk explained with quite painful politeness, "it was merely the accident
that she happened to know the naval officer on the Imperial Board. She was at Banff the week
the board was there, and she was able to put in a good word for the Vancouver Island site.
And the Imperial verdict swung our own government officials over."

"You were lucky to have such an attractive wirepuller," I frigidly announced.

"The luck wasn't altogether on my side," Dinky-Dunk almost as frigidly retorted, "when you
remember that it was giving her a chance to get rid of a ranch she was tired of!"

I did my best to hide my surprise, but it wasn't altogether a success. The dimensions of the
movement, apparently, were much greater than my poor little brain had been able to grasp.

"Do you mean it's going to let you take Casa Grande off her ladyship's hands?" I diffidently
inquired.

"That's already arranged for," Dinky-Dunk quite casually informed me. We were a couple of play-actors,
I felt, each deep in a rôle of his own, each stirred much deeper than he was ready to admit,
and each a little afraid of the other.

"You are to be congratulated," I told Dinky-Dunk, chilled in spite of myself, never for a moment
quite able to forget the sinister shadow of Lady Alicia which lay across our trodden little
path of everyday life.

"It was you and the kiddies I was thinking of," said my husband, in a slightly remote voice.
And the mockery of that statement, knowing what I knew, was too much for me.

"I'm sorry you didn't think of us a little sooner," I observed. And I had the bitter-sweet
reward of seeing a stricken light creep up into Dinky-Dunk's eyes.

"Why do you say that?" he asked.

But I didn't answer that question of his. Instead, I asked him another.

"Did you know that Lady Alicia came here and announced that she was in love with you?" I demanded,
resolved to let the light in to that tangled mess which was fermenting in the silo of my soul.

"Yes, I know," he quietly affirmed, as he hung his head. "She told me about it. And it was
awful. It should never have happened. It made me ashamed even--even to face you!"

"That was natural," I agreed, with my heart still steeled against him.

"It makes a fool of a man," he protested, "a situation like that."

"Then the right sort of man wouldn't encourage it," I reminded him, "wouldn't even permit it."
And still again I caught that quick movement of impatience from him.

"What's that sort of thing to a man of my age?" he demanded. "When you get to where I am you
don't find love looming so large on the horizon. What--"

"No, it clearly doesn't loom so large," I interrupted.

"What you want then," went on Dinky-Dunk, ignoring me, "is power, success, the consolation
of knowing you're not a failure in life. That's the big issue, and that's the stake men play
big for, and play hard for."

It was, I remembered in my bitterness of soul, what I myself had been playing hard for--but
I had lost. And it had left my heart dry. It had left my heart so dry that my own Dinky-Dunk,
standing there before me in the open sunlight, seemed millions of miles removed from me, mysteriously
depersonalized, as remote in spirit as a stranger from Mars come to converse about an inter-stellar
telephone-system.

"Then you've really achieved your ambition," I reminded my husband, as he stood studying a
face which I tried to keep tranquil under his inspection.

"Oh, no," he corrected, "only a small part of it."

"What's the rest?" I indifferently inquired, wondering why most of life's victories, after
all, were mere Pyrrhic victories.

"You," declared Dinky-Dunk, with a reckless light in his eyes, "You, and the children, now
that I'm in a position to give them what they want."

"But are you?" I queried.

"Well, that's what I'm coming back to demonstrate," he found the courage to assert.

"To them?" I asked.

"To all of you!" he said with a valiant air of finality.

I told him it was useless, but he retorted that he didn't propose to have that stop him. I
explained to him that it would be embarrassing, but he parried that claim by protesting that
sacrifice was good for the soul. I asserted that it would be a good deal of a theatricality,
under the circumstances, but he attempted to brush this aside by stating that what he had endured
for years might be repeated by patience.

So Dinky-Dunk is coming back to Alabama Ranch! It sounds momentous, and yet, I know in my heart,
that it doesn't mean so very much. He will sleep under the same roof with me as remote as though
he were reposing a thousand miles away. He will breakfast and go forth to his work, and my
thoughts will not be able to go with him. He will return with the day's weariness in his bones,
but a weariness which I can neither fathom nor explain in my own will keep my blood from warming
at the sound of his voice through the door. Being still his wife, I shall have to sew and mend
and cook for him. That is the penalty of prairie life; there is no escape from propinquity.

But that life can go on in this way, indefinitely, is unthinkable. What will happen, I don't
know. But there will have to be a change, somewhere. There will have to be a change, but I
am too tired to worry over what it will be. I'm too tired even to think of it. That's something
which lies in the lap of Time.

                     Saturday the Twenty-fifth

Dinky-Dunk is back. At least he sleeps and breakfasts at home, but the rest of the time he
is over at Casa Grande getting his crop cut. He's too busy, I fancy, to pay much attention
to our mutual lack of attention. But the compact was made, and he seems willing to comply with
it. The only ones who fail to regard it are the children. I hadn't counted on them. There are
times, accordingly, when they somewhat complicate the situation. It didn't take them long to
get re-acquainted with their daddy. I could see, from the first, that he intended to be very
considerate and kind with them, for I'm beginning to realize that he gets a lot of fun out
of the kiddies. Pee-Wee will go to him, now, from anybody. He goes with an unmistakable expression
of "Us-men-have-got-to-stick-together" satisfaction on his little face.

But Dinky-Dunk's intimacies, I'm glad to say, do not extend beyond the children. Three days
ago, though, he asked me about turning his hogs in on my land. It doesn't sound disturbingly
emotional. But if what's left of my crop, of course, is any use to Duncan, he's welcome to it....

I looked for that letter which I wrote to Dinky-Dunk several weeks ago, looked for it for an
hour and more this morning, but haven't succeeded in finding it. I was sure that I'd put it
between the pages of the old ranch journal. But it's not there.

Last night before I turned in I read all of Meredith's Modern Love. It was nice to remember
that once, at Box Hill, I'd felt the living clasp of the hand which had written that wonderful
series of poems. But never before did I quite understand that elaborated essay in love-moods.
It came like a friendly voice, like an understanding comrade who knows the world better than
I do, and brought me comfort, even though the sweetness of it was slightly acidulated, like
a lemon-drop. And as for myself, I suppose I'll continue to

                  "............sit contentedly
               And eat my pot of honey on the grave."

                         Sunday the Second

I have written to Uncle Carlton again, asking him about my Chilean Nitrate shares. If the company's
reorganized and the mines opened again, surely my stock ought to be worth something.

The days are getting shorter, and the hot weather is over for good, I hope. I usually like
autumn on the prairie, but the thought of fall, this year, doesn't fill me with any inordinate
joy. I'm unsettled and atonic, and it's just as well, I fancy, that I'm weaning the Twins.

It's not the simple operation I'd expected, but the worst is already over. Pee-Wee is betraying
unmistakable serpentine powers, and it's no longer safe to leave him on a bed. Poppsy is a
fastidious little lady, and apparently a bit of a philosopher. She is her father's favorite.
Whinstane Sandy is loyal to little Dinkie, and, now that the evenings are longer, regales him
on stories, stories which the little tot can only half understand. But they must always be
about animals, and Whinnie seems to run to wolves. He's told the story of the skater and the
wolves, with personal embellishments, and Little Red Riding-Hood in a version all his own,
and last night, I noticed, he recounted the tale of the woman in the sleigh with her children
when the pack of wolves pursued her. And first, to save herself and her family, she threw her
little baby out to the brutes. And when they had gained on her once more, she threw out her
little girl, and then her little boy, and then her biggest boy of ten. And when she reached
a settlement and told of her deliverance, the Oldest Settler took a wood-ax and clove her head
clear down to the shoulder-blades--the same, of course, being a punishment for saving herself
at the expense of her little ones.

My Dinkie sat wriggling his toes with delight, the tale being of that gruesome nature which
appeals to him. It must have been tried on countless other children, for, despite Whinnie's
autobiographical interjections, the yarn is an old and venerable one, a primitive Russian folk-tale
which even Browning worked over in his Ivan Ivanovitch.

Dinky-Dunk, wandering in on the tail end of it, remarked: "That's a fine story, that is, with
all those coyotes singing out there!"

"The chief objection to it," I added, "is that the lady didn't drop her husband over first."

Dinky-Dunk looked down at me as he filled his pipe.

"But the husband, as I remember the story, had been left behind to do what a mere husband could
to save their home," my spouse quietly reminded me.

                          Monday the Tenth

There was a heavy frost last night. It makes me feel that summer is over. Dinky-Dunk asked
me yesterday why I disliked Casa Grande and never ventured over into that neighborhood. I evaded
any answer by announcing that there were very few things I liked nowadays....

Only once, lately, have we spoken of Lady Allie. It was Dinky-Dunk, in fact, who first brought
up her name in speaking of the signing of the transfer-papers.

"Is it true," I found the courage to ask, "that you knew your cousin quite intimately as a girl?"

Dinky-Dunk laughed as he tamped down his pipe.

"Yes, it must have been quite intimately," he acknowledged. "For when she was seven and I was
nine we went all the way down Teignmouth Hill together in an empty apple-barrel--than which
nothing that I know of could possibly be more intimate!"

I couldn't join him in his mirth over that incident, for I happened to remember the look on
Lady Alicia's face when she once watched Dinky-Dunk mount his mustang and ride away. "Aren't
men lawds of creation?" she had dreamily inquired. "Not after you've lived with them for a
couple of years," I had been heartless enough to retort, just to let her know that I didn't
happen to have a skin like a Douglas pine.

                        Sunday the Sixteenth

I've just had a letter from Uncle Carlton. It's a very long and businesslike letter, in which
he goes into details as to how our company has been incorporated in La Association de Productores
de Salitre de Chile, with headquarters at Valparaiso. It's a new and rather unexpected arrangement,
but he prophesies that with nitrate at ten shillings per Spanish quintal the returns on the
investment, under the newer conditions, should be quite satisfactory. He goes on to explain
how nitrate is shipped in bags of one hundred kilos, and the price includes the bags, but the
weight is taken on the nitrate only, involving a deduction from the gross weight of seven-tenths
per cent. Then he ambles off into a long discussion of how the fixation method from the air
may eventually threaten the stability of our entire amalgamated mines, but probably not during
his life-time or even my own. And I had to read the letter over for the third time before I
winnowed from it the obscure but essential kernel that my shares from this year forward should
bring me in an annual dividend of at least two thousand, but more probably three, and possibly
even four, once the transportation situation is normalized, but depending largely, of course,
on the labor conditions obtaining in Latin America--and much more along the same lines.

That news of my long-forgotten and long-neglected nest-egg should have made me happy. But it
didn't. I couldn't quite react to it. As usual, I thought of the children first, and from their
standpoint it did bring a sort of relief. It was consoling, of course, to know that, whatever
happened, they could have woolens on their little tummies and shoe-leather on their little
piggies. But the news didn't come with sufficient force to shock the dull gray emptiness out
of existence. I've even been wondering if there's any news that could. For the one thing that
seems always to face me is the absence of intensity from life. Can it be, I found myself asking
to-day, that it's youth, golden youth, that is slipping away from me?

It startled me a little, to have to face that question. But I shake my fist in the teeth of
Time. I refuse to surrender. I shall not allow myself to become antiquated. I'm on the wrong
track, in some way, but before I dry up into a winter apple I'm going to find out where the
trouble is, and correct it. I never was much of a sleep-walker. I want life, Life--and oodles
of it....

Among other things, by the way, which I've been missing are books. They at least are to be
had for the buying, and I've decided there's no excuse for letting the channels of my mind
get moss-grown. I've had a "serious but not fatal wound," as the newspapers say, to my personal
vanity, but there's no use in letting go of things, at my time of life. Pee-Wee, I'm sure,
will never be satisfied with an empty-headed old frump for a mother, and Dinkie is already
asking questions that are slightly disturbing. Yesterday, in his bath, he held his hand over
his heart. He held it there for quite a long time, and then he looked at me with widening eyes.
"Mummy," he called out, "I've got a m'sheen inside me!" And Whinnie's explorations are surely
worth emulating. I too have a machine inside me which some day I'll be compelled to rediscover.
It is a machine which, at present, is merely a pump, though the ancients, I believe, regarded
it as the seat of the emotions.

                     Saturday the Twenty-ninth

Dinky-Dunk is quite subtle. He is ignoring me, as a modern army of assault ignores a fortress
by simply circling about its forbidding walls and leaving it in the rear. But I can see that
he is deliberately and patiently making love to my children. He is entrenching himself in their
affection.

He is, of course, their father, and it is not for me to interfere. Last night, in fact, when
Pee-Wee cried for his dad, poor old Dinky-Dunk's face looked almost radiumized. He has announced
that on Tuesday, when he will have to go in to Buckhorn, he intends to carry along the three
kiddies and have their photograph taken. It reminded me that I had no picture whatever of the
Twins. And that reminded me, in turn, of what a difference there is between your first child
and the tots who come later. Little Dinkie, being a novelty, was followed by a phosphorescent
wake of diaries and snap-shots and weigh-scales and growth-records, with his birthdays duly
reckoned, not by the year, but by the month.

It's not that I love the Twins less. It's only that the novelty has passed. And in one way
it's a good thing, for over your second and third baby you worry less. You know what is needed,
and how to do it. You blaze your trail, as a mother, with your first-born. You build your road,
and after that you are no longer a pioneer. You know the way you have to go, henceforth, and
you follow it. It is less a Great Adventure, perhaps, but, on the other hand, the double-pointed
tooth of Anxiety does not rowel quite so often at the core of your heart.... I've been wondering
if, with the coming of the children, there is not something which slips away from the relationship
between husband and wife. That there is a difference is not to be denied. There was a time
when I resented this and tried to fight against it. But I wasn't big enough, I suppose, to
block the course of Nature. And it was Nature, you have to admit when you come to look it honestly
in the face, Nature in her inexorable economy working out her inexorable ends. If I hadn't
loved Dinky-Dunk, fondly, foolishly, abandonedly, there would have been no little Dinkie and
Poppsy and Pee-Wee. They would have been left to wander like disconsolate little ghosts through
that lonely and twilit No-Man's Land of barren love and unwanted babes. And the only thing
that keeps me human, nowadays, that keeps me from being a woman with a dead soul, a she-being
of untenanted hide and bones and dehydrated ham-strings, is my kiddies. The thought of them,
at any time of the day, can put a cedilla under my heart to soften it....

Struthers, who is to go in to Buckhorn with the children when they have their picture taken,
is already deep in elaborating preparations for that expedition. She is improvising an English
nurse's uniform and has asked if there might be one picture of her and the children.

                       Tuesday the Fifteenth

The children have been away for a whole day, the first time in family history. And oh, what
a difference it makes in this lonely little prairie home of ours! The quietness, the emptiness,
the desolation of it all was something quite beyond my imagination. I know now that I could
never live apart from them. Whatever happens, I shall not be separated from my kiddies....

I spent my idle time in getting Peter's music-box in working order. Dinky-Dunk, who despises
it, thoughtlessly sat on the package of records and broke three of them. I've been trying over
the others. They sound tinny and flat, and I'm beginning to suspect I haven't my sound-box
adjusted right. I've a hunger to hear good music. And without quite knowing it, I've been craving
for city life again, for at least a taste of it, for even a chocolate cream-soda at a Huyler
counter. Dinky-Dunk yesterday said that I was a cloudy creature, and accused me of having a
mutinous mouth. Men seem to think that love should be like an eight-day clock, with a moment
or two of industrious winding-up rewarded by a long week of undeviating devotion.

                     Sunday the Twenty-seventh

The thrashing outfits are over at Casa Grande, and my being a mere spectator of the big and
busy final act of the season's drama reminds me of three years ago, just before Dinkie arrived.
Struthers, however, is at Casa Grande and in her glory, the one and only woman in a circle
of nine active-bodied men.

I begin to see that it's true what Dinky-Dunk said about business looming bigger in men's lives
than women are apt to remember. He's working hard, and his neck's so thin that his Adam's apple
sticks out like a push-button, but he gets his reward in finding his crop running much higher
than he had figured. He's as keen as ever he was for power and prosperity. He wants success,
and night and day he's scheming for it. Sometimes I wonder if he didn't deliberately use his
cousin Allie in this juggling back of Casa Grande into his own hands. Yet Dinky-Dunk, with
all his faults, is not, and could not be, circuitous. I feel sure of that.

He became philosophical, the other day when I complained about the howling of the coyotes,
and protested it was these horizon-singers that kept the prairie clean. He even argued that
the flies which seem such a pest to the cattle in summer-time are a blessing in disguise, since
the unmolested animals over-eat when feed is plentiful and get black-rot. So out of suffering
comes wisdom and out of endurance comes fortitude!

                         Thursday the Sixth

On Tuesday morning we had our first snow of the season, or, rather, before the season. It wasn't
much of a snow-storm, but Dinkie was greatly worked up at the sight of it and I finally put
on his little reefer and his waders and let him go out in it. But the weather had moderated,
the snow turned to slush, and when I rescued Dinkie from rolling in what looked to him like
a world of ice-cream he was a very wet boy.

On Tuesday night Dinkie, usually so sturdy and strong, woke up with a tight little chest-cough
that rather frightened me. I went over to his crib and covered him up. But when he wakened
me again, a couple of hours later, the cough had grown tighter. It turned into a sort of sharp
bark. And this time I found Dinkie hot and feverish. So I got busy, rubbing his chest with
sweet oil and turpentine until the skin was pink and giving him a sip or two of cherry pectoral
which I still had on the upper shelf of the cupboard.

When morning came he was no better. He seemed in a stupor, rousing only to bark into his pillow.
I called Dinky-Dunk in, before he left in the pouring rain for Casa Grande, and he said, almost
indifferently, "Yes, the boy's got a cold all right." But that was all.

When breakfast was over I tried Dinkie with hot gruel, but he declined it. He refused to eat,
in fact, and remembering what Peter had once said about my first-born being pantophagous, I
began to suspect that I had a very sick boy on my hands.

At noon, when he seemed no better, I made a mild mustard-plaster and put it on the upper part
of his little chest. I let it burn there until he began to cry with the discomfort of it. Then
I tucked a double fold of soft flannel above his thorax.

As night came on he was more flushed and feverish than ever, and I wished to heaven that I'd
a clinic thermometer in the house. For by this time I was more than worried: I was panicky.
Yet Duncan, when he came in, and got out of his oil-skins, didn't seem very sympathetic. He
flatly refused to share my fears. The child, he acknowledged, had a croupy little chest-cold,
but all he wanted was keeping warm and as much water as he could drink. Nature, he largely
protested, would attend to a case like that.

I was ready to turn on him like a she-tiger, but I held myself in, though it took an effort.
I saw Duncan go off to bed, dog-tired, of course, but I felt that to go to sleep, under the
circumstances, would be criminal. Dinkie, in the meantime, was waking every now and then and
barking like a baby-coyote. I could have stood it, I suppose, if that old Bobs of ours hadn't
started howling outside, in long-drawn and dreary howls of unutterable woe. I remembered about
a dog always howling that way when somebody was going to die in the house. And I concluded,
with an icy heart, that it was the death-howl. I tried to count Dinkie's pulse, but it was
so rapid and I was so nervous that I lost track of the beats. So I decided to call Dinky-Dunk.

He came in to us kind of sleepy-eyed and with his hair rumpled up, and asked, without thinking,
what I wanted.

And I told him, with a somewhat shaky voice, what I wanted. I said I wanted antiphlogistine,
and a pneumonia-jacket, and a doctor, and a trained nurse, and just a few of the comforts of
civilization.

Dinky-Dunk, staring at me as though I were a madwoman, went over to Dinkie's crib, and felt
his forehead and the back of his neck, and held an ear against the boy's chest, and then against
his shoulder-blades. He said it was all right, and that I myself ought to be in bed. As though
in answer to that Dinkie barked out his croupy protest, tight and hard, barked as I'd never
heard a child bark before. And I began to fuss, for it tore my heart to think of that little
body burning up with fever and being denied its breath.

"You might just as well get back to bed," repeated Dinky-Dunk, rather impatiently. And that
was the spark which set off the mine, which pushed me clear over the edge of reason. I'd held
myself in for so long, during weeks and weeks of placid-eyed self-repression, that when the
explosion did come I went off like a Big Bertha. I turned on my husband with a red light dancing
before my face and told him he was a beast and a heartless brute. He tried to stop me, but
it was no use. I even said that this was a hell of a country, where a white woman had to live
like a Cree squaw and a child had to die like a sick hound in a coulée. And I said a number
of other things, which must have cut to the raw, for even in the uncertain lamplight I could
see that Dinky-Dunk's face had become a kind of lemon-color, which is the nearest to white
a sunburned man seems able to turn.

"I'll get a doctor, if you want one," he said, with an over-tried-patience look in his eyes.

"I don't want a doctor," I told him, a little shrill-voiced with indignation. "It's the child
who wants one."

"I'll get your doctor," he repeated as he began dressing, none too quickly. And it took him
an interminable time to get off, for it was raining cats and dogs, a cold, sleety rain from
the northeast, and the shafts had to be taken off the buckboard and a pole put in, for it would
require a team to haul anything on wheels to Buckhorn, on such a night.

It occurred to me, as I stood at the window and saw Dinky-Dunk's lantern wavering about in
the rain while he was getting the team and hooking them on to the buckboard, that it would
be only the decent thing to send him off with a cup of hot coffee, now that I had the kettle
boiling. But he'd martyrize himself, I knew, by refusing it, even though I made it. And he
was already sufficiently warmed by the fires of martyrdom.

Yet it was an awful night, I realized when I stood in the open door and stared after him as
he swung out into the muddy trail with the stable lantern lashed to one end of his dashboard.
And I felt sorry, and a little guilty, about the neglected cup of coffee.

I went back to little Dinkie, and found him asleep. So I sat down beside him. I sat there wrapped
up in one of Dinky-Dunk's four-point Hudson-Bays, deciding that if the child's cough grew tighter
I'd rig up a croup-tent, as I'd once seen Chinkie's doctor do with little Gimlets. But Dinkie
failed to waken. And I fell asleep myself, and didn't open an eye until I half-tumbled out
of the chair, well on toward morning.

By the time Dinky-Dunk got back with the doctor, who most unmistakably smelt of Scotch whisky,
I had breakfast over and the house in order and the Twins fed and bathed and off for their
morning nap. I had a fresh nightie on little Dinkie, who rather upset me by announcing that
he wanted to get up and play with his Noah's Ark, for his fever seemed to have slipped away
from him and the tightness had gone from his cough. But I said nothing as that red-faced and
sweet-scented doctor looked the child over. His stethoscope, apparently, tickled Dinkie's ribs,
for after trying to wriggle away a couple of times he laughed out loud. The doctor also laughed.
But Dinky-Dunk's eye happened to meet mine.

It would be hard to describe his expression. All I know is that it brought a disagreeable little
sense of shame to my hypocritical old heart, though I wouldn't have acknowledged it, for worlds.

"Why, those lungs are clear," I heard the man of medicine saying to my husband. "It's been
a nasty little cold, of course, but nothing to worry over."

His optimism struck me as being rather unprofessional, for if you travel half a night to a
case, it seems to me, it ought not to be brushed aside with a laugh. And I was rather sorry
that I had such a good breakfast waiting for them. Duncan, it's true, did not eat a great deal,
but the way that red-faced doctor lapped up my coffee with clotted cream and devoured bacon
and eggs and hot muffins should have disturbed any man with an elementary knowledge of dietetics.
And by noon Dinkie was pretty much his old self again. I half expected that Duncan would rub
it in a little. But he has remained discreetly silent.

Next time, of course, I'll have a better idea of what to do. But I've been thinking that this
exquisite and beautiful animalism known as the maternal instinct can sometimes emerge from
its exquisiteness. Children are a joy and a glory, but you pay for that joy and glory when
you see them stretched out on a bed of pain, with the shadow of Death hovering over them.

When I tried to express something like this to Dunkie last night, somewhat apologetically,
he looked at me with an odd light in his somber old Scotch Canadian eye.

"Wait until you see him really ill," he remarked, man-like, stubbornly intent on justifying
himself. But I was too busy saying a little prayer, demanding of Heaven that such a day might
never come, to bother about delivering myself of the many laboriously concocted truths which
I'd assembled for my bone-headed lord and master. I was grateful enough for things as they
were, and I could afford to be generous.

                          Sunday the Ninth

For the first time since I came out on the prairie, I dread the thought of winter. Yet it's
really something more than the winter I dread, since snow and cold have no terrors for me.
I need only to look back about ten short months and think of those crystal-clear winter days
of ours, with the sleigh piled up with its warm bear-robes, the low sun on the endless sea
of white, the air like champagne, the spanking team frosted with their own breath, the caroling
sleigh-bells, and the man who still meant so much to me at my side. Then the homeward drive
at night, under violet clear skies, over drifts of diamond-dust, to the warmth and peace and
coziness of one's own hearth! It was often razor-edge weather, away below zero, but we had
furs enough to defy any threat of frost-nip.

We still have the furs, it's true, but there's the promise of a different kind of frost in
the air now, a black frost that creeps into the heart which no furs can keep warm....

We still have the furs, as I've already said, and I've been looking them over. They're so plentiful
in this country that I've rather lost my respect for them. Back in the old days I used to invade
those mirrored and carpeted salons where a trained and deferential saleswoman would slip sleazy
and satin-lined moleskin coats over my arms and adjust baby-bear and otter and ermine and Hudson-seal
next to my skin. It always gave me a very luxurious and Empressy sort of feeling to see myself
arrayed, if only experimentally, in silver-fox and plucked beaver and fisher, to feel the soft
pelts and observe how well one's skin looked above seal-brown or shaggy bear.

But I never knew what it cost. I never even considered where they came from, or what they grew
on, and it was to me merely a vague and unconfirmed legend that they were all torn from the
carcasses of far-away animals. Prairie life has brought me a little closer to that legend,
and now that I know what I do, it makes a difference.

For with the coming of the cold weather, last winter, Francois and Whinstane Sandy took to
trapping, to fill in the farm-work hiatus. They made it a campaign, and prepared for it carefully,
concocting stretching-rings and cutting-boards and fashioning rabbit-snares and overhauling
wicked-looking iron traps, which were quite ugly enough even before they became stained and
clotted and rusted with blood.

They had a very successful season, but even at the first it struck me as odd to see two men,
not outwardly debased, so soberly intent on their game of killing. And in the end I got sick
of the big blood-rusted traps and the stretching-rings and the blood-smeared cutting-boards
and the smell of pelts being cured. For every pelt, I began to see, meant pain and death. In
one trap Francois found only the foot of a young red fox: it had gnawed its leg off to gain
freedom from those vicious iron jaws that had bitten so suddenly into its flesh and bone and
sinew. He also told me of finding a young bear which had broken the anchor-chain of a twelve-pound
trap and dragged it over one hundred miles. All the fight, naturally, was gone out of the little
creature. It was whimpering like a woman when Francois came up with it--poor little tortured
broken-hearted thing! And some empty-headed heiress goes mincing into the Metropolitan, on
a Caruso night, very proud and peacocky over her new ermine coat, without ever dreaming it's
a patchwork of animal sufferings that is keeping her fat body warm, and that she's trying to
make herself beautiful in a hundred tragedies of the wild.

If women only thought of these things! But we women have a very convenient hand-made imagination
all our own, and what upsets us as perfect ladies we graciously avoid. Yet if the petticoated
Vandal in that ermine coat were compelled to behold from her box-chair in the Metropolitan,
not a musty old love-affair set to music, but the spectacle of how each little animal whose
skin she has appropriated had been made to suffer, the hours and sometimes days of torture
it had endured, and how, if still alive when the trapper made the rounds of his sets, it had
been carefully strangled to death by that frugal harvester, to the end that the pelt might
not be bloodied and reckoned only as a "second"--if the weasel-decked lady, I repeat, had to
witness all this with her own beaded eyes, our wilderness would not be growing into quite such
a lonely wilderness.

Or some day, let's put it, as one of these beaver-clad ladies tripped through the Ramble in
Central Park, supposing a steel-toothed trap suddenly and quite unexpectedly snapped shut on
her silk-stockinged ankle and she writhed and moaned there in public, over the week-end. Then
possibly her cries of suffering might make her sisters see a little more light. But the beaver,
they tell me, is trapped under the ice, always in running water. A mud-ball is placed a little
above the waiting trap, to leave the water opaque, and when the angry iron jaws have snapped
shut on their victim, that victim drowns, a prisoner. Francois used to contend shruggingly
that it was an easy death. It may be easy compared with some of the other deaths imposed on
his furry captives. But it's not my idea of bliss, drowning under a foot or two of ice with
a steel trap mangling your ankle for full measure!

"We live forward, but we understand backward." I don't know who first said it. But the older
I grow the more I realize how true it is.

                        Sunday the Umptieth

I've written to Peter, reminding him of his promise, and asking about the Pasadena bungalow.

It seems the one way out. I'm tired of living like an Alpine ibex, all day long above the snow-line.
I'm tired of this blind alley of inaction. I'm tired of decisions deferred and threats evaded.
I want to get away to think things over, to step back and regain a perspective on the over-smudged
canvas of life.

To remain at Alabama Ranch during the winter can mean only a winter of discontent and drifting--and
drifting closer and closer to uncharted rocky ledges. There's no ease for the mouth where one
tooth aches, as the Chinese say.

Dinky-Dunk, I think, has an inkling of how I feel. He is very thoughtful and kind in small
things, and sometimes looks at me with the eyes of a boy's dog which has been forbidden to
follow the village gang a-field. And it's not that I dislike him, or that he grates on me,
or that I'm not thankful enough for the thousand and one little kind things he does. But it's
rubbing on the wrong side of the glass. It can't bring back the past. My husband of to-day
is not the Dinky-Dunk I once knew and loved and laughed with. To go back to dogs, it reminds
me of Chinkie's St. Bernard, "Father Tom," whom Chinkie petted and trained and loved almost
to adoration. And when poor old Father Tom was killed Chinkie in his madness insisted that
a taxidermist should stuff and mount that dead dog, which stood, thereafter, not a quick and
living companion but a rather gruesome monument of a vanished friendship. It was, of course,
the shape and color of the thing he had once loved; but you can't feed a hungry heart by staring
at a pair of glass eyes and a wired tail without any wag in it.

                         Saturday the Ninth

Struthers and I have been busy making clothes, during the absence of Dinky-Dunk, who has been
off duck-shooting for the last three days. He complained of being a bit tuckered out and having
stood the gaff too long and needing a change. The outing will do him good. The children miss
him, of course, but he's promised to bring Dinkie home an Indian bow-and-arrow. I can see death
and destruction hanging over the glassware of this household.... The weather has been stormy,
and yesterday Whinnie and Struthers put up the stove in the bunk-house. They were a long time
about it, but I was reluctant to stop the flutterings of Cupid's wings.

                        Tuesday the Twelfth

I had a brief message from Peter stating the Pasadena house is entirely at my disposal....
Dinky-Dunk came back with a real pot-hunter's harvest of wild ducks, which we'll pick and dress
and freeze for winter use. I'm taking the breast-feathers for my pillows and Whinstane Sandy
is taking what's left for a sleeping-bag--from which I am led to infer that he's still reconciled
to a winter of solitude. Struthers, I know, could tell him of a warmer bag than that, lined
with downier feathers from the pinions of Eros. But, as I've said before, Fate, being blind,
weaves badly.

                        Friday the Fifteenth

I've just told Dinky-Dunk of my decision to take the kiddies to California for the winter months.
He rather surprised me by agreeing with everything I suggested. He feels, I think, as I do,
that there's danger in going aimlessly on and on as we have been doing. And it's really a commonplace
for the prairie rancher--when he can afford it--to slip down to California for the winter.
They go by the thousand, by the train-load.

                          Friday the Sixth

It's three long weeks since I've had time for either ink or retrospect. But at last I'm settled,
though I feel as though I'd died and ascended into Heaven, or at least changed my world, as
the Chinks say, so different is Pasadena to the prairie and Alabama Ranch. For as I sit here
on the loggia of Peter's house I'm bathed in a soft breeze that is heavy with a fragrance of
flowers, the air is the air of our balmiest midsummer, and in a pepper-tree not thirty feet
away a mocking-bird is singing for all it's worth. It seems a poignantly beautiful world. And
everything suggests peace. But it was not an easy peace to attain.

In the first place, the trip down was rather a nightmare. It brought home to me the fact that
I had three young barbarians to break and subjugate, three untrained young outlaws who went
wild with their first plunge into train-travel and united in defiance of Struthers and her
foolishly impressive English uniform which always makes me think of Regent Park. I have a suspicion
that Dinky-Dunk all the while knew of the time I'd have, but sagely held his peace.

I had intended, when I left home, to take the boat at Victoria and go down to San Pedro, for
I was hungry for salt water and the feel of a rolling deck under my feet again. But the antics
of my three little outlaws persuaded me, before we pulled into Calgary, that it would be as
well to make the trip south as short a one as possible. Dinkie disgraced me in the dining-car
by insisting on "drinking" his mashed potatoes, and made daily and not always ineffectual efforts
to appropriate all the fruit on the table, and on the last day, when I'd sagaciously handed
him over to the tender mercies of Struthers, I overheard this dialogue:

"I want shooder in my soup!"

"But little boys don't eat sugar in their soup."

"I want shooder in my soup!"

"But, darling, mommie doesn't eat sugar in her soup!"

"Shooder! Dinkie wants shooder, shooder in his soup!"

"Daddy never eats shooder in his soup, Sweetness."

"I want shooder!"

"But really nice little boys don't ask for sugar in their soup," argued the patient-eyed Struthers.

"Shooder!" insisted the implacable tyrant. And he got it.

There was an exceptional number of babies and small children on board and my unfraternal little
prairie-waifs did not see why every rattle and doll and automatic toy of their little fellow
travelers and sister tourists shouldn't promptly become their own private property. And traveling
with twins not yet a year old is scarcely conducive to rest.

And yet, for all the worry and tumult, I found a new peace creeping into my soul. It was the
first sight of the Rockies, I think, which brought the change. I'd grown tired of living on
a billiard-table, without quite knowing it, tired of the trimly circumscribed monotony of material
life, of the isolating flat contention against hunger and want. But the mountains took me out
of myself. They were Peter's windmill, raised to the Nth power. They loomed above me, seeming
to say: "We are timeless. You, puny one, can live but a day." They stood there as they had
stood from the moment God first whispered: "Let there be light"--and there was light. But no,
I'm wrong there, as Peter would very promptly have told me, for it was only in the Cambrian
Period that the cornerstone of the Rockies was laid. The geologic clock ticked out its centuries
until the swamps of the Coal Period were full of Peter's Oldest Inhabitants in the form of
Dinosaurs and then came the Cretaceous Period and the Great Architect looked down and bade
the Rockies arise, and tooled them into beauty with His blue-green glaciers and His singing
rivers, and touched the lordliest peaks with wine-glow and filled the azure valleys with music
and peace. And we threaded along those valley-sides on our little ribbons of steel, skirted
the shouting rivers and plunged into tiny twisted tubes of darkness, emerging again into the
light and once more hearing the timeless giants, with their snow-white heads against the sunset,
repeat their whisper: "We live and are eternal. Ye, who fret about our feet, dream for a day,
and are forgotten!"

But we seemed to be stepping out into a new world, by the time we got to Pasadena. It was a
summery and flowery and holiday world, and it impressed me as being solely and scrupulously
organized for pleasure. Yet all minor surprises were submerged in the biggest surprise of Peter's
bungalow, which is really more like a château, and strikes me as being singularly like Peter
himself, not amazingly impressive to look at, perhaps, but hiding from the world a startingly
rich and luxurious interior. The house itself, half hidden in shrubbery, is of weather-stained
stucco, and looks at first sight a little gloomy, with the patina of time upon it. But it is
a restful change from the spick-and-spanness of the near-by millionaire colony, so eloquent
of the paint-brush and the lawn-valet's shears, so smug and new and strident in its paraded
opulence. Peter's gardens, in fact, are a rather careless riot of color and line, a sort of
achieved genteel roughness, like certain phases of his house, as though the wave of refinement
driven too high had broken and tumbled over on itself.

The house, which is the shape of an "E" without the middle stroke, has a green-sodded patio
between the two wings, with a small fountain and a stained marble basin at the center. There
are shade-trees and date-palms and shrubs and Romanesque-looking stone seats about narrow walks,
for this is the only really formalized portion of the entire property. This leads off into
a grove and garden, a confusion of flowers and trees where I've already been able to spot out
a number of orange trees, some of them well fruited, several lemon and fig trees, a row of
banana trees, or plants, whichever they should be called, besides pepper and palm and acacia
and a long-legged double-file of eucalyptus at the rear. And in between is a pergola and a
mixture of mimosa and wistaria and tamarisk and poppies and trellised roses and one woody old
geranium with a stalk like a crab-apple trunk and growth enough to cover half a dozen prairie
hay-stacks.

But, as I've already implied, it was the inside of the house that astonished me. It is much
bigger than it looks and is crowded with the most gorgeous old things in copper and brass and
leather and mahogany that I ever saw under one roof. It has three open fireplaces, a huge one
of stone in the huge living-room, and rough-beamed ceilings of redwood, and Spanish tiled floors,
and chairs upholstered with cowhide with the ranch-brand still showing in the tanned leather,
and tables of Mexican mahogany set in redwood frames, and several convenient little electric
heaters which can be carried from room to room as they are needed.

Pinshaw, Peter's gardener and care-taker, had before our arrival picked several clumps of violets,
with perfume like the English violets, and the house was aired and everything waiting and ready
when we came, even to two bottles of certified milk in the icebox for the babies and half a
dozen Casaba melons for their elders. My one disturbing thought is that it will be a hard house
to live up to. But Struthers, who is not untouched with her folie de grandeur, has the slightly
flurried satisfaction of an exile who has at last come into her own. One of the first things
I must do, however, is to teach my kiddies to respect Peter's belongings. In one cabinet of
books, which is locked, I have noticed several which are by "Peter Ketley" himself. Yet that
name meant nothing to me, when I met it out on the prairie and humiliated its owner by converting
him into one of my hired hands. Ce monde est plein de fous.

                        Monday the Sixteenth

This is a great climate for meditation. And I have been meditating. Back at Alabama Ranch,
I suppose, there's twenty degrees of frost and a northwest wind like a search-warrant. Here
there's a pellucid blue sky, just enough breeze to rustle the bamboo-fronds behind me, and
a tall girl in white lawn, holding a pale green parasol over her head and meandering slowly
along the sun-steeped boulevard, which smells of hot tar.

I've been sitting here staring down that boulevard, with the strong light making me squint
a little. I've been watching the two rows of date-palms along the curb, with their willow-plume
head-dress stirring lazily in the morning breeze. Well back from the smooth and shining asphalt,
as polished as ebony with its oil-drip and tire-wear, is a row of houses, some shingled and
awninged, some Colonial-Spanish, and stuccoed and bone-white in the sun, some dark-wooded and
vine-draped and rose-grown, but all immaculate and finished and opulent. The street is very
quiet, but half-way down the block I can see a Jap gardener in brown denim sedately watering
a well-barbered terrace. Still farther away, somebody, in one of the deep-shadowed porches,
is tinkling a ukelele, and somebody that I can't see is somewhere beating a rug. I can see
a little rivulet of water that flows sparkling down the asphalted runnel of the curb. Then
the clump of bamboos back by Peter's bedroom window rustles crisply again and is quiet and
the silence is broken by a nurse-maid calling to a child sitting in a toy motor-wagon. Then
a touring-car purrs past, with the sun flashing on its polished metal equipment, and the toy
motor child being led reluctantly homeward by the maid cries shrilly, and in the silence that
ensues I can hear the faint hiss of a spray-nozzle that builds a transient small rainbow just
beyond the trellis of Cherokee roses from which a languid white petal falls, from time to time.

It's a dolce-far-niente day, as all the days seem to be here, and the best that I can do is
sit and brood like a Plymouth Rock with a full crop. But I've been thinking things over. And
I've come to several conclusions.

One is that I'm not so contented as I thought I was going to be. I am oppressed by a shadowy
feeling of in some way sailing under false colors. I am also hounded by an equally shadowy
impression that I'm a convalescent. Yet I find myself vulgarly healthy, my kiddies have all
acquired a fine coat of tan, and only Struthers is slightly off her feed, having acquired a
not unmerited attack of cholera morbus from over-indulgence in Casaba melon. But I keep wondering
if Dinky-Dunk is getting the right sort of things to eat, if he's lonely, and what he does
in his spare time.

And another conclusion I've come to is that men, much as I hate to admit it, are built of a
stronger fiber than women. They seem able to stand shock better than the weaker sex. They are
not so apt to go down under defeat, to take the full count, as I have done. For I still have
to face the fact that I was a failure. Then I turned tail and fled from the scene of my collapse.
That flight, it is true, has brought me a certain brand of peace, but it is not an enduring
peace, for you can't run away from what's in your own heart. And already I'm restless and ill-at-ease.
It's not so much that I'm dissatisfied; it's more that I'm unsatisfied. There still seems to
be something momentous left out of the plan of things. I have the teasing feeling of confronting
something which is still impending, which is being withheld, which I can not reach out for,
no matter how I try, until the time is ripe.... Those rustling bamboos so close to the room
where I sleep have begun to bother me so much that I'm migrating to a new bedroom to-night.
"There's never anything without something!"

                     Tuesday the Twenty-fourth

Little Dinky-Dunk has adventured into illicit knowledge of his first orange from the bough.
It was one of Peter's low-hanging Valencias, and seems to have left no ill-effects, though
I prefer that all inside matter be carefully edited before consumption by that small Red. So
Struthers hereafter must stand the angel with the flaming sword and guard the gates that open
upon that tree of forbidden fruit. Her own colic, by the way, is a thing of the past, and at
present she's extremely interested in Pinshaw, who, she tells me, was once a cabinet-maker
in England, and came out to California for his health. Struthers, as usual, is attempting to
reach the heart of her new victim by way of the stomach, and Pinshaw, apparently, is not unappreciative,
since he appears a little more punctually at his watering and raking and gardening and has
his ears up like a rabbit for the first inkling of his lady-love's matutinal hand-out. And
poor old Whinstane Sandy, back at Alabama Ranch, is still making sheep's eyes at the patches
which Struthers once sewed on his breeks, like as not, and staring with a moonish smile at
the atrabilious photograph which the one camera-artist of Buckhorn made of Struthers and my
three pop-eyed kiddies....

These are, without exception, the friendliest people I have ever known. The old millionaire
lumberman from Bay City, who lives next door to me, pushes through the hedge with platefuls
of green figs and tid-bits from his gardens, and delightful girls whose names I don't even
know come in big cars and ask to take little Dinkie off for one of their lawn fêtes. It even
happened that a movie-actor--who, I later discovered, was a drug-addict--insisted on accompanying
me home and informed me on the way that I had a dream of a face for camera-work. It quite set
me up, for all its impertinence, until I learned to my sorrow that it had flowered out of nothing
more than an extra shot in the arm.

They are a friendly and companionable folk, and they'd keep me on the go all the time if I'd
let 'em. But I've only had energy enough to run over to Los Angeles twice, though there are
a dozen or two people I must look up in that more frolicsome suburb. But I can't get away from
the feeling, the truly rural feeling, that I'm among strangers. I can't rid myself of the extremely
parochial impression that these people are not my people. And there's a valetudinarian aspect
to the place which I find slightly depressing. For this seems to be the one particular point
where the worn-out old money-maker comes to die, and the antique ladies with asthma struggle
for an extra year or two of the veranda rocking-chair, and rickety old beaux sit about in Panamas
and white flannels and listen to the hardening of their arteries. And I haven't quite finished
with life yet--not if I know it--not by a long shot!

But one has to be educated for idleness, I find, almost as much as for industry. I knew the
trick once, but I've lost the hang of it. The one thing that impresses me, on coming straight
from prairie life to a city like this, is how much women-folk can have done for them without
quite knowing it. The machinery of life here is so intricate and yet so adequate that it denudes
them of all the normal and primitive activities of their grandmothers, so they have to invent
troubles and contrive quite unnecessary activities to keep from being bored to extinction.
Everything seems to come to them ready-made and duly prepared, their bread, their light and
fuel and water, their meat and milk. All that, and the daily drudgery it implies, is made ready
and performed beyond their vision, and they have no balky pumps to prime and no fires to build,
and they'd probably be quite disturbed to think that their roasts came from a slaughter-house
with bloody floors and that their breakfast rolls, instead of coming ready-made into the world,
are mixed and molded in bake-rooms where men work sweating by night, stripped to the waist,
like stokers.

                        Wednesday the Second

Dinky-Dunk's letter, which reached me Monday, was very short and almost curt. It depressed
me for a day. I tried to fight against that feeling, when it threatened to return yesterday,
and was at Peter's piano shouting to the kiddies:

           "Coon, Coon, Coon, I wish my color'd fade!
           Coon, Coon, Coon, I'd like a different shade!"

when Struthers carried in to me, with a sort of triumphant and tight-lipped I-told-you-so air,
a copy of the morning's Los Angeles Examiner. She had it folded so that I found myself confronting
a picture of Lady Alicia Newland, Lady Alicia in the "Teddy-Bear" suit of an aviator, with
a fur-lined leather jacket and helmet and heavy gauntlets and leggings and the same old audacious
look out of the quietly smiling eyes, which were squinting a little because of the sunlight.

Lady Allie, I found on perusing the letter-press, had been flying with some of the North Island
officers down in San Diego Bay. And now she and the Right Honorable Lieutenant-Colonel Brereton
Ainsley-Brook, of the British Imperial Commission to Canada, were to attempt a flight to Kelly
Field Number Two, at San Antonio, in Texas, in a De Haviland machine. She had told the Examiner
reporter who had caught her as she stood beside a naval sea-plane, that she "loved" flying
and loved taking a chance and that her worst trouble was with nose-bleed, which she'd get over
in time, she felt sure. And if the Texas flight was a success she would try to arrange for
a flight down to the Canal at the same time that the Pacific fleet comes through from Colon.

"Isn't that 'er, all over?" demanded Struthers, forgetting her place and her position and even
her aspirate in the excitement of the moment. But I handed back the paper without comment.
For a day, however, Lady Allie has loomed large in my thoughts.

                       Sunday the Thirteenth

It will be two weeks to-morrow since I've had a line from Dinky-Dunk. The world about me is
a world of beauty, but I'm worried and restless and Edna Millay's lines keep running through
my head:

               "...East and West will pinch the heart
               That can not keep them pushed apart;
               And he whose soul is flat--the sky
               Will cave in on him by and by!"

                      Wednesday the Sixteenth

Peter has written to me saying that unless he hears from me to the contrary he thinks he can
arrange to "run through" to the Coast in time for the Rose Tournament here on New Year's Day.
He takes the trouble to explain that he'll stay at the Alexandria in Los Angeles, so there'll
be no possible disturbance to me and my family routine.

That's so like Peter!

But there's been no word from Dinky-Dunk. The conviction is growing in my mind that he's not
at Alabama Ranch.

                      Monday the Twenty-first

A letter has just come to me this morning from Whinstane Sandy, written in lead-pencil. It
said, with an orthography all its own, that Duncan had been in bed for two weeks with what
they thought was pneumonia, but was up again and able to eat something, and not to worry. It
seemed a confident and cheerful message at first, but the oftener I read it the more worried
I became. So one load was taken off my heart only to make room for another. My first decision
was to start north at once, to get back to Alabama Ranch and my Dinky-Dunk as fast as steam
could take me. I was still the sharer of his joys and sorrows, and ought to be with him when
things were at their worst. But on second thought it didn't seem quite fair to the kiddies,
to dump them from midsummer into shack-life and a sub-zero climate. And always, always, always,
there were the children to be considered. So I wired Ed Sherman, the station-agent at Buckhorn,
asking him to send out a message to Duncan, saying I was waiting for him in Pasadena and to
come at once....

I wonder what his answer will be? It's surrender, on my part. It's capitulation, and Dinky-Dunk,
of course, will recognize that fact. Or he ought to. But it's not this I'm worrying over. It's
Duncan himself, and his health. It gives me a guilty feeling.... I once thought that I was
made to heal hearts. But about all I can do, I find, is to bruise them.

                     Thursday the Twenty-fourth

A telegram of just one word has come from Duncan, dated at Calgary. It said: "Coming." I could
feel a little tremble in my knees as I read it. He must be better, or he'd never be able to
travel. To-morrow will be Christmas Day, but we've decided to postpone all celebration until
the kiddies' daddy is on the scene. It will never seem much like Christmas to us Eskimos, at
eighty-five in the shade. And we're temporarily subduing that red-ink day to the eyes of the
children by carefully secreting in one of Peter's clothes-closets each and every present that
has come for them.

                     Sunday the Twenty-seventh

Dinky-Dunk is here. He arrived this morning, and we were all at the station in our best bib-and-tucker
and making a fine show of being offhanded and light-hearted. But when I saw the porter helping
down my Diddums, so white-faced and weak and tired-looking, something swelled up and burst
just under my floating ribs and for a moment I thought my heart had had a blow-out like a tire
and stopped working for ever and ever. Heaven knows I held my hands tight, and tried to be
cheerful, but in spite of everything I could do, on the way home, I couldn't stop the tears
from running slowly down my cheeks. They kept running and running, as though I had nothing
to do with it, exactly as a wound bleeds. The poor man, of course, was done out by the long
trip. He was just blooey, and saved himself from being pitiful by shrinking back into a shell
of chalky-faced self-sufficiency. He has said very little, and has eaten nothing, but had a
sleep this afternoon for a couple of hours, out in the patio on a chaise-longue. It hurt him,
I think, to find his own children look at him with such cold and speculative eyes. But he has
changed shockingly since they last saw him. And they have so much to fill up their little lives.
They haven't yet reached the age when life teaches them they'd better stick to what's given
them, even though there's a bitter tang to its sweetness!

                      Wednesday the Thirtieth

It is incredible, what three days of rest and forced feeding at my implacable hands, have done
for Dinky-Dunk. He is still a little shaky on his pins, if he walks far, and the noonday sun
makes him dizzy, but his eyes don't look so much like saucers and I haven't heard the trace
of a cough from him all to-day. Illness, of course, is not romantic, but it plays its altogether
too important part in life, and has to be faced. And there is something so disturbingly immuring
and depersonalizing about it! Dinky-Dunk appears rather in a world by himself. Only once, so
far, has he seemed to step back to our every-day old world. That was when he wandered into
the Blue Room in the East Wing where little Dinkie has been sleeping. I was seated beside his
little lordship's bed singing:

         "The little pigs sleep with their tails curled up,"

and when that had been exhausted, rambling on to

                "The sailor being both tall and slim,
                The lady fell in love with him,"

when pater familias wandered in and inquired, "Whyfore the cabaret?"

I explained that Dinkie, since coming south, had seemed to demand an even-song or two before
slipping off.

"I see that I'll have to take our son in hand," announced Dinky-Dunk--but there was just the
shadow of a smile about his lips as he went slowly out and closed the door after him.

To-night, when I told Dinky-Dunk that Peter would in all likelihood be here to-morrow, he listened
without batting an eyelash. But he asked if I'd mind handing him a cigarette, and he studied
my face long and intently. I don't know what he saw there, or what he concluded, for I did
my best to keep it as noncommittal as possible. If there is any move, it must be from him.
That sour-inked Irishman called Shaw has said that women are the wooers in this world. A lot
he knows about it!... Yet something has happened, in the last half-hour, which both disturbs
and puzzles me. When I was unpacking Dinky-Dunk's second trunk, which had stood neglected for
almost four long days, I came across the letter which I thought I'd put away in the back of
the ranch ledger and had failed to find.... And he had it, all the time!

The redoubtable Struthers, it must be recorded, to-day handed me another paper, and almost
as triumphantly as the first one. She'd picked it up on her way home from the druggist's, where
she went for aspirin for Dinky-Dunk. On what was labeled its "Woman's Page" was yet another
photographic reproduction of the fair Lady Allie in aviation togs and a head-line which read:
"Insists On Tea Above The Clouds." But I plainly disappointed the expectant Struthers by promptly
handing the paper back to her and by declining to make any comment.

                     Thursday the Thirty-first

Peter walked in on us to-day, a little less spick and span, I'm compelled to admit, than I
had expected of one in his position, but as easy and unconcerned as though he had dropped in
from across the way for a cigarette and a cup of tea. And I played up to that pose by having
Struthers wheel the tea-wagon out into the patio, where we gathered about it in a semicircle,
as decorously as though we were sitting in a curate's garden to talk over the program for the
next meeting of the Ladies' Auxiliary.

There we sat, Dinky-Dunk, my husband who was in love with another woman; Peter, my friend,
who was in love with me, and myself, who was too busy bringing up a family to be in love with
anybody. There we sat in that beautiful garden, in that balmy and beautiful afternoon sunlight,
with the bamboos whispering and a mocking-bird singing from its place on the pepper-tree, stirring
our small cups and saying "Lemon, please," or "Just one lump, thank you." It may not be often,
but life does occasionally surprise us by being theatrical. For I could not banish from my
bones an impression of tremendous reservations, of guarded waiting and watching from every
point of that sedate and quiet-mannered little triangle. Yet for only one moment had I seen
it come to the front. That was during the moment when Dinky-Dunk and Peter first shook hands.
On both faces, for that moment, I caught the look with which two knights measure each other.
Peter, as he lounged back in his wicker chair and produced his familiar little briar pipe,
began to remind me rather acutely of that pensive old picador in Zuloaga's The Victim of The
Fête, the placid and plaintive and only vaguely hopeful knight on his bony old Rosinante, not
quite ignorant of the fact that he must forage on to other fields and look for better luck
in newer ventures, yet not quite forgetful that life, after all, is rather a blithe adventure
and that the man who refuses to surrender his courage, no matter what whimsical turns the adventure
may take, is still to be reckoned the conqueror. But later on he was jolly enough and direct
enough, when he got to showing Dinky-Dunk his books and curios. I suppose, at heart, he was
about as interested in those things as an aquarium angel-fish is in a Sunday afternoon visitor.
But if it was pretense, and nothing more, there was very actual kindliness in it. And there
was nothing left for me but to sit tight, and refill the little lacquered gold cups when necessary,
and smile non-committally when Dinky-Dunk explained that my idea of Heaven was a place where
husbands were served en brochette, and emulate the Priest and the Levite by passing by on the
other side when Peter asked me if I'd ever heard that the West was good for mules and men but
hard on horses and women. And it suddenly struck me as odd, the timidities and reticences which
nature imposes on our souls. It seemed so ridiculous that the three of us couldn't sit there
and unbosom our hearts of what was hidden away in them, that we couldn't be open and honest
and aboveboard and say just what we felt and thought, that we couldn't quietly talk things
out to an end and find where each and all of us stood. But men and women are not made that
way. Otherwise, I suppose, life would be too Edenic, and we'd part company with a very old
and venerable interest in Paradise!

                        Saturday the Second

Peter had arranged to come for us with a motor-car and carry us all off to the Rose Tournament
yesterday morning, "for I do want to be sitting right next to that little tike of yours," he
explained, meaning Dinkie, "when he bumps into his first brass band!"

But little Dinkie didn't hear his brass band, and we didn't go to the Rose Tournament, although
it was almost at our doors and some eighty thousand crowded automobiles foregathered here from
the rest of the state to get a glimpse of it. For Peter, who is staying at the Greene here
instead of at the Alexandria over in Los Angeles, presented himself before I'd even sat down
to breakfast and before lazy old Dinky-Dunk was even out of bed.

Peter, I noticed, had a somewhat hollow look about the eye, but I accepted it as nothing more
than the after-effects of his long trip, and blithely commanded him to sit down and partake
of my coffee.

Peter, however, wasn't thinking about coffee.

"I'm afraid," he began, "that I'm bringing you rather--rather bad news."

We stood for a moment with our gazes locked. He seemed appraising me, speculating on just what
effect this message of his might have on me.

"What is it?" I asked, with that forlorn tug at inner reserves which life teaches us to send
over the wire as we grow older.

"I've come," explained Peter, "simply because this thing would have reached you a little later
in your morning paper--and I hated the thought of having it spring out at you that way. So
you won't mind, will you? You'll understand the motive behind the message?"

"But what is it?" I repeated, a little astonished by this obliquity in a man customarily so direct.

"It's about Lady Newland," he finally said. And the solemnity of his face rather frightened me.

"She's not dead?" I asked in a breath.

Peter shook his head from side to side.

"She's been rather badly hurt," he said, after several moments of silence. "Her plane was winged
yesterday afternoon by a navy flier over San Diego Bay. She didn't fall, but it was a forced
landing and her machine had taken fire before they could get her out of her seat."

"You mean she was burnt?" I cried, chilled by the horror of it.

And, inapposite as it seemed, my thoughts flashed back to that lithe and buoyant figure, and
then to the picture of it charred and scorched and suffering.

"Only her face," was Peter's quiet and very deliberate reply.

"Only her face," I repeated, not quite understanding him.

"The men from the North Bay field had her out a minute or two after she landed. But practically
the whole plane was afire. Her heavy flying coat and gauntlets saved her body and hands. But
her face was unprotected. She--"

"Do you mean she'll be disfigured?" I asked, remembering the loveliness of that face with its
red and wilful lips and its ever-changing tourmaline eyes.

"I'm afraid so," was Peter's answer. "But I've been wiring, and you'll be quite safe in telling
your husband that she's in no actual danger. The Marine Hospital officials have acknowledged
that no flame was inhaled, that it's merely temporary shock, and, of course, the face-burn."

"But what can they do?" I asked, in little more than a whisper.

"They're trying the new ambersine treatment, and later on, I suppose, they can rely on skin-grafting
and facial surgery," Peter explained to me.

"Is it that bad?" I asked, sitting down in one of the empty chairs, for the mere effort to
vision any such disfigurement had brought a Channel-crossing and Calais-packet feeling to me.

"It's very sad," said Peter, more ill-at-ease than I'd ever seen him before, "But there's positively
no danger, remember. It won't be so bad as your morning paper will try to make it out. They've
sensationalized it, of course. That's why I wanted to be here first, and give you the facts.
They are distressing enough, God knows, without those yellow reporters working them over for
wire consumption."

I was glad that Peter didn't offer to stay, didn't even seem to wish to stay. I wanted quietness
and time to think the thing over. Dinky-Dunk, I realized, would have to be told, and told at
once. It would, of course, be a shock to him. And it would be something more. It would be a
sudden crowding to some final issue of all those possibilities which lay like spring-traps
beneath the under-brush of our indifference. I had no way of knowing what it was that had attracted
him to Lady Alicia. Beauty of face, of course, must have been a factor in it. And that beauty
was now gone. But love, according to the Prophets and the Poets, overcometh all things. And
in her very helplessness, it was only too plain to me, his Cousin Allie might appeal to him
in a more personal and more perilous way. My Diddums himself, of late, had appealed more to
me in his weakness and his unhappiness than in his earlier strength and triumph. There was
a time, in fact, when I had almost grown to hate his successes. And yet he was my husband.
He was mine. And it was a human enough instinct to fight for what was one's own. But that wild-bird
part of man known as his will could never be caged and chained. If somewhere far off it beheld
beauty and nobility it must be free to wing its way where it wished. The only bond that held
it was the bond of free-giving and goodness. And if it abjured such things as that, the sooner
the flight took place and the colors were shown, the better. If on the home-bough beside him
nested neither beauty nor nobility, it was only natural that he should wander a-field for what
I had failed to give him. And now, in this final test, I must not altogether fail him. For
once in my life, I concluded, I had to be generous.

So I waited until Dinky-Dunk emerged. I waited, deep in thought, while he splashed like a sea-lion
in his bath, and called out to Struthers almost gaily for his glass of orange-juice, and shaved,
and opened and closed drawers, and finished dressing and came out in his cool-looking suit
of cricketer's flannel, so immaculate and freshly-pressed that one would never dream it had
been bought in England and packed in mothballs for four long years.

I heard him asking for the kiddies while I was still out in the patio putting the finishing
touches to his breakfast-table, and his grunt that was half a sigh when he learned that they'd
been sent off before he'd had a glimpse of them. And I could see him inhale a lungful of the
balmy morning air as he stood in the open doorway and stared, not without approval, at me and
the new-minted day.

"Why the clouded brow, Lady-Bird?" he demanded as he joined me at the little wicker table.

"I've had some rather disturbing news," I told him, wondering just how to begin.

"The kiddies?" he asked, stopping short.

I stared at him closely as I shook my head in answer to that question. He looked leaner and
frailer and less robustious than of old. But in my heart of hearts I liked him that way. It
left him the helpless and unprotesting victim of that run-over maternal instinct of mine which
took wayward joy in mothering what it couldn't master. It had brought him a little closer to
me. But that contact, I remembered, was perhaps to be only something of the moment.

"Dinky-Dunk," I told him as quietly as I could, "I want you to go down to San Diego and see
Lady Allie."

It was a less surprised look than a barricaded one that came into his eyes.

"Why?" he asked as he slowly seated himself across the table from me.

"Because I think she needs you," I found the courage to tell him.

"Why?" he asked still again.

"There has been an accident," I told him.

"What sort of accident?" he quickly inquired, with one hand arrested as he went to shake out
his table-napkin.

"It was an air-ship accident. And Lady Allie's been hurt."

"Badly?" he asked, as our glances met.

"Not badly, in one way," I explained to him. "She's not in any danger, I mean. But her plane
caught fire, and she's been burned about the face."

His lips parted slightly, as he sat staring at me. And slowly up into his colorless face crept
a blighted look, a look which brought a vague yet vast unhappiness to me as I sat contemplating it.

"Do you mean she's disfigured," he asked, "that it's something she'll always--"

"I'm afraid so," I said, when he did not finish his sentence.

He sat looking down at his empty plate for a long time.

"And you want me to go?" he finally said.

"Yes," I told him.

He was silent for still another ponderable space of time.

"But do you understand--" he began. And for the second time he didn't finish his sentence.

"I understand," I told him, doing my best to sit steady under his inquisitorial eye. Then he
looked down at the empty plate again.

"All right," he said at last. He spoke in a quite flat and colorless tone. But it masked a
decision which we both must have recognized as being momentous. And I knew, without saying
anything further, that he would go.

                          Sunday the Third

Dinky-Dunk left Friday night and got back early this morning before I was up. This naturally
surprised me. But what surprised me more was the way he looked. He was white and shaken and
drawn about the eyes. He seemed so wretched that I couldn't help feeling sorry for him.

"She wouldn't see me!" was all he said as I stopped him on the way to his room.

But he rather startled me, fifteen minutes later, by calling up the Greene and asking for Peter.
And before half an hour had dragged past Peter appeared in person. He ignored the children,
and apparently avoided me, and went straight out to the pergola, where he and Dinky-Dunk fell
to pacing slowly up and down, with the shadows dappling their white-clad shoulders like leopards
as they walked up and down, up and down, as serious and solemn as two ministers of state in
a national crisis. And something, I scarcely knew what, kept me from going out and joining them.

It was Peter himself who finally came in to me. He surprised me, in the first place, by shaking
hands. He did it with that wistful wandering-picador smile of his on his rather Zuloagaish face.

"I've got to say good-by," I found him saying to me.

"Peter!" I called out in startled protest, trying to draw back so I could see him better. But
he kept my hand.

"I'm going east to-night," he quite casually announced. "But above all things I want you and
your Dinky-Dunk to hang on here as long as you can. He needs it. I'm stepping out. No, I don't
mean that, exactly, for I'd never stepped in. But it's a fine thing, in this world, for men
and women to be real friends. And I know, until we shuffle off, that we're going to be that!"

"Peter!" I cried again, trying not to choke up with the sudden sense of deprivation that was
battering my heart to pieces. And the light in faithful old Peter's eyes didn't make it any easier.

But he dropped my hand, of a sudden, and went stumbling rather awkwardly over the Spanish tiling
as he passed out to the waiting car. I watched him as he climbed into it, stiffly yet with
a show of careless bravado, for all the world like the lean-jowled knight of the vanished fête
mounting his bony old Rosinante.

It was nearly half an hour later that Dinky-Dunk came into the cool-shadowed living-room where
I was making a pretense of being busy at cutting down some of Dinkie's rompers for Pee-Wee,
who most assuredly must soon bid farewell to skirts.

"Will you sit down, please?" he said with an abstracted sort of formality. For he'd caught
me on the wing, half-way back from the open window, where I'd been glancing out to make sure
Struthers was on guard with the children.

My face was a question, I suppose, even when I didn't speak.

"There's something I want you to be very quiet and courageous about," was my husband's none
too tranquillizing beginning. And I could feel my pulse quicken.

"What is it?" I asked, wondering just what women should do to make themselves quiet and courageous.

"It's about Allie," answered my husband, speaking so slowly and deliberately that it sounded
unnatural. "She shot herself last night. She--she killed herself, with an army revolver she'd
borrowed from a young officer down there."

I couldn't quite understand, at first. The words seemed like half-drowned things my mind had
to work over and resuscitate and coax, back into life.

"This is terrible!" I said at last, feebly, foolishly, as the meaning of it all filtered through
my none too active brain.

"It's terrible for me," acknowledged Dinky-Dunk, with a self-pity which I wasn't slow to resent.

"But why aren't you there?" I demanded. "Why aren't you there to keep a little decency about
the thing? Why aren't you looking after what's left of her?"

Dinky-Dunk's eye evaded mine, but only for a moment.

"Colonel Ainsley-Brook is coming back from Washington to take possession of the remains," he
explained with a sort of dry-lipped patience, "and take them home."

"But why should an outsider like--"

Dinky-Dunk stopped me with a gesture.

"He and Allie were married, a little over three weeks ago," my husband quietly informed me.
And for the second time I had to work life into what seemed limp and sodden words.

"Did you know about that?" I asked.

"Yes, Allie wrote to me about it, at the time," he replied with a sort of coerced candor. "She
said it seemed about the only thing left to do."

"Why should she say that?"

Dinky-Dunk stared at me with something strangely like a pleading look in his haggard eye.

"Wouldn't it be better to keep away from all that, at a time like this?" he finally asked.

"No," I told him, "this is the time we can't keep away from it. She wrote you that because
she was in love with you. Isn't that the truth?"

Dinky-Dunk raised his hand, as though he were attempting a movement of protest, and then dropped
it again. His eyes, I noticed, were luminous with a sort of inward-burning misery. But I had
no intention of being merciful. I had no chance of being merciful. It was like an operation
without ether, but it had to be gone through with. It had to be cut out, in some way, that
whole cancerous growth of hate and distrust.

"Isn't that the truth?" I repeated.

"Oh, Tabby, don't turn the knife in the wound!" cried Dinky-Dunk, with his face more than ever
pinched with misery.

"Then it is a wound!" I proclaimed in dolorous enough triumph. "But there's still another question,
Dinky-Dunk, you must answer," I went on, speaking as slowly and precisely as I could, as though
deliberation in speech might in some way make clearer a matter recognized as only too dark
in spirit. "And it must be answered honestly, without any quibble as to the meaning of words.
Were you in love with Lady Allie?"

His gesture of repugnance, of seeming self-hate, was both a prompt and a puzzling one.

"That's the hideous, the simply hideous part of it all," he cried out in a sort of listless
desperation.

"Why hideous?" I demanded, quite clear-headed, and quite determined that now or never the overscored
slate of suspicion should be wiped clean. I still forlornly and foolishly felt, I suppose,
that he might yet usher before me some miraculously simple explanation that would wipe his
scutcheon clean, that would put everything back to the older and happier order. But as I heard
his deep-wrung cry of "Oh, what's the good of all this?" I knew that life wasn't so romantic
as we're always trying to make it.

"I've got to know," I said, as steel-cold as a surgeon.

"But can't you see that it's--that it's worse than revolting to me?" he contended, with the
look of a man harried beyond endurance.

"Why should it be?" I exacted.

He sank down in the low chair with the ranch-brand on its leather back. It was an oddly child-like
movement of collapse. But I daren't let myself feel sorry for him.

"Because it's all so rottenly ignoble," he said, without looking at me.

"For whom?" I asked, trying to speak calmly.

"For me--for you," he cried out, with his head in his hands. "For you to have been faced with,
I mean. It's awful, to think that you've had to stand it!" He reached out for me, but I was
too far away for him to touch. "Oh, Tabby, I've been such an awful rotter. And this thing that's
happened has just brought it home to me."

"Then you cared, that much?" I demanded, feeling the bottom of my heart fall out, for all the
world like the floor of a dump-cart.

"No, no; that's the unforgivable part of it," he cried in quick protest. "It's not only that
I did you a great wrong, Tabby, but I did her a worse one. I coolly exploited something that
I should have at least respected. I manipulated and used a woman I should have been more generous
with. There wasn't even bigness in it, from my side of the game. I traded on that dead woman's
weakness. And my hands would be cleaner if I could come to you with the claim that I'd really
cared for her, that I'd been swept off my feet, that passion had blinded me to the things I
should have remembered." He let his hands fall between his knees. Knowing him as the man of
reticence that he was, it seemed an indescribably tragic gesture. And it struck me as odd,
the next moment, that he should be actually sobbing. "Oh, my dear, my dear, the one thing I
was blind to was your bigness, was your goodness. The one thing I forgot was how true blue
you could be."

I sat there staring at his still heaving shoulders, turning over what he had said, turning
it over and over, like a park-squirrel with a nut. I found a great deal to think about, but
little to say.

"I don't blame you for despising me," Dinky-Dunk said, out of the silence, once more in control
of himself.

"I was thinking of her," I explained. And then I found the courage to look into my husband's
face. "No, Dinky-Dunk, I don't despise you," I told him, remembering that he was still a weak
and shaken man. "But I pity you. I do indeed pity you. For it's selfishness, it seems to me,
which costs us so much, in the end."

He seemed to agree with me, by a slow movement of the head.

"That's the only glimmer of hope I have," he surprised me by saying.

"But why hope from that?" I asked.

"Because you're so utterly without selfishness," that deluded man cried out to me. "You were
always that way, but I didn't have the brains to see it. I never quite saw it until you sent
me down to--to her." He came to a stop, and sat staring at the terra-cotta Spanish floor-tiles.
"I knew it was useless, tragically useless. You didn't. But you were brave enough to let my
weakness do its worst, if it had to. And that makes me feel that I'm not fit to touch you,
that I'm not even fit to walk on the same ground with you!"

I tried my best to remain judicial.

"But this, Dinky-Dunk, isn't being quite fair to either of us," I protested, turning away to
push in a hair-pin so that he wouldn't see the tremble that I could feel in my lower lip. For
an unreasonable and illogical and absurdly big wave of compassion for my poor old Dinky-Dunk
was welling up through my tired body, threatening to leave me and all my make-believe dignity
as wobbly as a street-procession Queen of Sheba on her circus-float. I was hearing, I knew,
the words that I'd waited for, this many a month. I was at last facing the scene I'd again
and again dramatized on the narrow stage of my woman's imagination. But instead of bringing
me release, it brought me heart-ache; instead of spelling victory, it came involved with the
thin humiliations of compromise. For things could never be the same again. The blot was there
on the scutcheon, and could never be argued away. The man I loved had let the grit get into
the bearings of his soul, had let that grit grind away life's delicate surfaces without even
knowing the wine of abandoned speed. He had been nothing better than the passive agent, the
fretful and neutral factor, the cheated one without even the glory of conquest or the tang
of triumph. But he had been saved for me. He was there within arm's reach of me, battered,
but with the wine-glow of utter contrition on his face.

"Take me back, Babushka," I could hear his shaken voice imploring. "I don't deserve it--but
I can't go on without you. I can't! I've had enough of hell. And I need you more than anything
else in this world!"

That, I had intended telling him, wasn't playing quite fair. But when he reached out his hands
toward me, exactly as I've seen his own Dinky do at nightfall when a darkening room left his
little spirit hungry for companionship, something melted like an overlooked chocolate mousse
in my crazy old maternal heart, and before I was altogether aware of it I'd let my hands slip
over his shoulders as he knelt with his bowed head in my lap. The sight of his colorless and
unhappy face with that indescribable homeless-dog look in his eyes was too much for me. I gave
up. I hugged his head to my breast-bone as though it were my only life-buoy in an empty and
endless Atlantic and only stopped when I had to rub the end of my nose, which I couldn't keep
a collection of several big tears from tickling.

"I'm a fool, Dinky-Dunk, a most awful fool," I tried to tell him, when he gave me a chance
to breathe again. "And I've got a temper like a bob-cat!"

"No, no, Beloved," he protested, "it's not foolishness--it's nobility!"

I couldn't answer him, for his arms had closed about me again. "And I love you, Tabbie, I love
you with every inch of my body!"

Women are weak. And there is no such thing, so far as I know, as an altogether and utterly
perfect man. So we must winnow strength out of our weakness, make the best of a bad bargain,
and over-scroll the walls of our life-cell with the illusions which may come to mean as much
as the stone and iron that imprison us. All we can do, we who are older and wiser, is wistfully
to overlook the wobble where the meshed perfection of youth has been bruised and abused and
loosened, tighten up the bearings, and keep as blithely as we can to the worn old road. For
life, after all, is a turn-pike of concession deep-bedded with compromise. And our To-morrows
are only our To-days over again.... So Dinky-Dunk, who keeps saying in unexpected and intriguing
ways that he can't live without me, is trying to make love to me as he did in the old days
before he got salt-and-peppery above the ears. And I'm blockhead enough to believe him. I'm
like an old shoe, I suppose, comfortable but not showy. Yet it's the children we really have
to think of. Our crazy old patch-work of the Past may be our own, but the Future belongs to
them. There's a heap of good, though, in my humble-eyed old Dinky-Dunk, too much good ever
to lose him, whatever may have happened in the days that are over.

                      Sunday the Twenty-fourth

Dinky-Dunk, whom I actually heard singing as he took his bath this morning, is exercising his
paternal prerogative of training little Dinkie to go to bed without a light. He has peremptorily
taken the matter out of my hands, and is, of course, prodigiously solemn about it all.

"I'll show that young Turk who's boss around this house!" he magisterially proclaims almost
every night when the youthful wails of protest start to come from the Blue Room in the East Wing.

And off he goes, with his Holbein's Astronomer mouth set firm and the fiercest of frowns on
his face.

It had a tendency to terrify me, at first. But now I know what a colossal old fraud and humbug
this same soft-hearted and granite-crusted specimen of humanity can be. For last night, after
the usual demonstration, I slipped out to the Blue Room and found big Dunkie kneeling down
beside little Dinkie's bed, with Dinkie's small hand softly enclosed in his dad's big paw,
and Dinkie's yellow head nestled close against his dad's salt-and-peppery pate.

It made me gulp a little, for some reason or other. So I tiptoed away, without letting my lord
and master know I'd discovered the secret of that stern mastery of his. And later on Dinky-Dunk
himself tiptoed into Peter's study, farther down the same wing, so that he could, with a shadow
of truth, explain that he'd been looking over some of the Spanish manuscripts there, when I
happened to ask him, on his return, just what had kept him away so long!

                               THE END

page  49: changed typo calmy into calmly

page  89: changed Kaikabad to Kaikobad

page 153: changed typo is into it

page 348: changed typo awkardly into awkwardly