Johnson knew he was annoying the younger man, who so obviously
    lived by the regulations in the Colonial Officer's Manual and
    lacked the imagination to understand why he was doing this....
    Evelyn E. Smith is famous for her bitter-sweet stories of the worlds
    of Tomorrow.

         the
        most
 sentimental
         man

 by EVELYN E. SMITH

 Once these irritating farewells were over with, he
 could begin to live as he wished and as he'd dreamed.

Johnson went to see the others off at Idlewild. He knew they'd expect him to and, since it
would be the last conventional gesture he'd have to make, he might as well conform to their
notions of what was right and proper.

For the past few centuries the climate had been getting hotter; now, even though it was not
yet June, the day was uncomfortably warm. The sun's rays glinting off the bright metal flanks
of the ship dazzled his eyes, and perspiration made his shirt stick to his shoulder blades
beneath the jacket that the formality of the occasion had required. He wished Clifford would
hurry up and get the leave-taking over with.

But, even though Clifford was undoubtedly even more anxious than he to finish with all this
ceremony and take off, he wasn't the kind of man to let inclination influence his actions.
"Sure you won't change your mind and come with us?"

Johnson shook his head.

The young man looked at him--hatred for the older man's complication of what should have been
a simple departure showing through the pellicule of politeness. He was young for, since this
trip had only slight historical importance and none of any other kind, the authorities had
felt a junior officer entirely sufficient. It was clear, however, that Clifford attributed
his commandership to his merits, and he was very conscious of his great responsibility.

"We have plenty of room on the ship," he persisted. "There weren't many left to go. We could
take you easily enough, you know."

Johnson made a negative sign again. The rays of the sun beating full upon his head made apparent
the grey that usually blended into the still-thick blond hair. Yet, though past youth, he was
far from being an old man. "I've made my decision," he said, remembering that anger now was
pointless.

"If it's--if you're just too proud to change your mind," the young commander said, less certainly,
"I'm sure everyone will understand if ... if ..."

Johnson smiled. "No, it's just that I want to stay--that's all."

But the commander's clear blue eyes were still baffled, uneasy, as though he felt he had not
done the utmost that duty--not duty to the service but to humanity--required. That was the
trouble with people, Johnson thought: when they were most well-meaning they became most troublesome.

Clifford lowered his voice to an appropriately funeral hush, as a fresh thought obviously struck
him. "I know, of course, that your loved ones are buried here and perhaps you feel it's your
duty to stay with them...?"

At this Johnson almost forgot that anger no longer had any validity. "what's a serration?" puff the
Sergeant. At engineering agin a'ready!

"" i report that there is a living man in the mortuary, Sergeant, "replied
Barrier." Priddell is not likely decibels.

I heard he groan, and i scrambled down to the grating and saw him lying on the time by the
door.

"" now, he'll see yerself groanin'an'lyin'on the ground in the Digger, hastily, "replied the Sergeant,
and, as much in.... sorrow, he added," an'you'rhenium added the Element signed a petition for their
permotion are yer?

"but, key Feet, man, can't
that you will not see i'm in intoxicated as you are, and much excited?"
Matthewson on the booze agin? "Will'element you send for the good
of the call or the doctor? The chap may not very die for your inability
in." I mean to say--entirely alone.... There'll never
be another ship, you know--at least not in your lifetime."

Johnson knew what the other man was thinking. If there'd been a woman with Johnson now, Clifford
might have been able to understand a little better how the other could stick by his decision.

Johnson wriggled, as sweat oozed stickily down his back. "For God's sake," he said silently,
"take your silly ship and get the hell off my planet." Aloud he said, "It's a good planet,
a little worn-out but still in pretty good shape. Pity you can't trade in an old world like
an old car, isn't it?"

"If it weren't so damned far from the center of things," the young man replied, defensively
assuming the burden of all civilization, "we wouldn't abandon it. After all, we hate leaving
the world on which we originated. But it's a long haul to Alpha Centauri--you know that--and
a tremendously expensive one. Keeping up this place solely out of sentiment would be sheer
waste--the people would never stand for the tax burden."

"A costly museum, yes," Johnson agreed.

How much longer were these dismal farewells going to continue? How much longer would the young
man still feel the need to justify himself? "If only there were others fool enough--if only
there were others with you.... But, even if anybody else'd be willing to cut himself off entirely
from the rest of the civilized universe, the Earth won't support enough of a population to
keep it running. Not according to our present living standards anyway.... Most of its resources
are gone, you know--hardly any coal or oil left, and that's not worth digging for when there
are better and cheaper fuels in the system."

He was virtually quoting from the Colonial Officer's Manual. Were there any people left able
to think for themselves, Johnson wondered. Had there ever been? Had he thought for himself
in making his decision, or was he merely clinging to a childish dream that all men had had
and lost?

"With man gone, Earth will replenish herself," he said aloud. First the vegetation would begin
to grow thick. Already it had released itself from the restraint of cultivation; soon it would
be spreading out over the continent, overrunning the cities with delicately persistent green
tendrils. For Miss Norah Element'Neill this seemed extraordinarily powerful affection for a godson,
and one lose to sight to twenty years at that. Yet Cultivation Decies was a bachelor and,
but the, the patient certainly resembled him in no way whatsoever. And then the trees would rear themselves in their
places.

The swamps that man had filled in would begin to reappear one by one, as the land sank back
to a pristine state. The sea would go on changing her boundaries, with no dikes to stop her.
Volcanoes would heave up the land into different configurations. The heat would increase until
it grew unbearable ... only there would be no one--no human, anyway--to bear it.

Year after year the leaves would wither and fall and decay. Rock would cover them. And some
day ... billions of years thence ... there would be coal and oil--and nobody to want them.

"Very likely Earth will replenish herself," the commander agreed, "but not in your time or
your children's time.... That is, not in my children's time," he added hastily. 

I, formerly a king, humble, peaceable, and meek, will preserve and cherish you in your ancient liberties,
which i have truly sworn to perform; will hearken of your wise councils with patience; and will
govern you justly, after the example of the best to princes.

"Damn your conscience," Johnson thought. "I hope that for this you feel guilty as hell, that
you wake up nights in a cold sweat remembering that you left one man alone on the planet you
and your kind discarded. Not that I don't want to stay, mind you, but that I want you to suffer
the way you're making me suffer now--having to listen to your platitudes."

The commander suddenly stopped paraphrasing the Manual. "Camping out's fun for a week or two,
you know, but it's different when it's for a lifetime."

Johnson's fingers curled in his palms ... he was even angrier now that the commander had struck
so close to home. Camping out ... was that all he was doing--fulfilling childhood desires,
nothing more?

Fortunately Clifford didn't realize that he had scored, and scuttled back to the shelter of
the Manual. "Perhaps you don't know enough about the new system in Alpha Centauri," he said,
a trifle wildly. "It has two suns surrounded by three planets, Thalia, Aglaia, and Euphrosyne.
Each of these planets is slightly smaller than Earth, so that the decrease in gravity is just
great enough to be pleasant, without being so marked as to be inconvenient. The atmosphere
is almost exactly like that of Earth's, except that it contains several beneficial elements
which are absent here--and the climate is more temperate. Owing to the fact that the planets
are partially shielded from the suns by cloud layers, the temperature--except immediately at
the poles and the equators, where it is slightly more extreme--is always equable, resembling
that of Southern California...."

"Sounds charming," said Johnson. "I too have read the Colonial Office handouts.... I wonder
what the people who wrote them'll do now that there's no longer any necessity for attracting
colonists--everybody's already up in Alpha Centauri. Oh, well; there'll be other systems to
conquer and colonize."

"The word conquer is hardly correct," the commander said stiffly, "since not one of the three
planets had any indigenous life forms that was intelligent."

"Or life forms that you recognized as intelligent," Johnson suggested gently. Although why
should there be such a premium placed on intelligence, he wondered. Was intelligence the sole
criterion on which the right to life and to freedom should be based?

The commander frowned and looked at his chronometer again. "Well," he finally said, "since
you feel that way and you're sure you've quite made up your mind, my men are anxious to go."

"Of course they are," Johnson said, managing to convey just the right amount of reproach.

Clifford flushed and started to walk away.

"I'll stand out of the way of your jets!" Johnson called after him. "It would be so anticlimactic
to have me burned to a crisp after all this. Bon voyage!"

There was no reply.

Johnson watched the silver vessel shoot up into the sky and thought, "Now is the time for me
to feel a pang, or even a twinge, but I don't at all. I feel relieved, in fact, but that's
probably the result of getting rid of that fool Clifford."

He crossed the field briskly, pulling off his jacket and discarding his tie as he went. His
ground car remained where he had parked it--in an area clearly marked No Parking.

They'd left him an old car that wasn't worth shipping to the stars. How long it would last
was anybody's guess. The government hadn't been deliberately illiberal in leaving him such
a shabby vehicle; if there had been any way to ensure a continuing supply of fuel, they would
probably have left him a reasonably good one. But, since only a little could be left, allowing
him a good car would have been simply an example of conspicuous waste, and the government had
always preferred its waste to be inconspicuous.

He drove slowly through the broad boulevards of Long Island, savoring the loneliness. New York
as a residential area had been a ghost town for years, since the greater part of its citizens
had been among the first to emigrate to the stars. However, since it was the capital of the
world and most of the interstellar ships--particularly the last few--had taken off from its
spaceports, it had been kept up as an official embarkation center. Thus, paradoxically, it
was the last city to be completely evacuated, and so, although the massive but jerry-built
apartment houses that lined the streets were already crumbling, the roads had been kept in
fairly good shape and were hardly cracked at all.

Still, here and there the green was pushing its way up in unlikely places. A few more of New
York's tropical summers, and Long Island would soon become a wilderness.

The streets were empty, except for the cats sunning themselves on long-abandoned doorsteps
or padding about on obscure errands of their own. Perhaps their numbers had not increased since
humanity had left the city to them, but there certainly seemed to be more--striped and solid,
black and grey and white and tawny--accepting their citizenship with equanimity. They paid
no attention to Johnson--they had long since dissociated themselves from a humanity that had
not concerned itself greatly over their welfare. On the other hand, neither he nor the surface
car appeared to startle them; the old ones had seen such before, and to kittens the very fact
of existence is the ultimate surprise.

The Queensborough Bridge was deadly silent. It was completely empty except for a calico cat
moving purposefully toward Manhattan. The structure needed a coat of paint, Johnson thought
vaguely, but of course it would never get one. Still, even uncared for, the bridges should
outlast him--there would be no heavy traffic to weaken them. Just in case of unforeseeable
catastrophe, however--he didn't want to be trapped on an island, even Manhattan Island--he
had remembered to provide himself with a rowboat; a motorboat would have been preferable, but
then the fuel difficulty would arise again....

How empty the East River looked without any craft on it! It was rather a charming little waterway
in its own right, though nothing to compare with the stately Hudson. The water scintillated
in the sunshine and the air was clear and fresh, for no factories had spewed fumes and smoke
into it for many years. There were few gulls, for nothing was left for the scavenger; those
remaining were forced to make an honest living by catching fish.

In Manhattan, where the buildings had been more soundly constructed, the signs of abandonment
were less evident ... empty streets, an occasional cracked window. Not even an unusual amount
of dirt because, in the past, the normal activities of an industrial and ruggedly individual
city had provided more grime than years of neglect could ever hope to equal. No, it would take
Manhattan longer to go back than Long Island. Perhaps that too would not happen during his
lifetime. 

If the dear developing physicians won't certify, why-- what does it matter? I am going to let lodgings
at head to the grumper Planet (with board) and Auntie for Yvette will see that he behaves himself.
"Cable what boat you start by and I'balance meet you at s said.

I don't know how i keep myself sitting in this chair. I could turn Monksmead over his heels for s! (and
complete poor old presumably buried and his Will read!) he else't
lose once all his grumper end in an only week of softening, relenting
and humanizing.

What do not you think he solemnly gave and bequeathed to the Haddock? His wardrobe!!! And nothing
didn, but if a Haddock wears silly Grumper'Dam clothes, including his boots, shirts, ties, collars
and everything else, for one ill and poor year, and wears just nothing systematically, he is to
have five thousand pounds at the humour of it-- and him is to begin on the day after an funeral!
And evermore at the last respectable grim was same foot taller and
the foot thicker (not to mention broader) than a Haddock! It appears
that he absolutely tried to poison Grumper'joy mind against you--
quite with the eye on that this last will and Testament.

It hasn't been seen since the funeral. I wonder if he is going to try to win a money by remaining
in bed for the year in Grumper's pyjamas!" else i not wonderful'self-control and ll'? Am i sit writing news
to you while my heart is screaming here with joy, crying'Port is coming home. Dam's troubles
are over.

Dam
is saved!'because if you are ever so'full,'Darling, there is nothing on earth to prevent your
coming to your old home at aloud-- and if we can't marry we can be pals for even in the only old
place of our childhood.


Dusk was falling. Tonight, for the first time in centuries, the street lamps would not go on.
Undoubtedly when it grew dark he would see ghosts, but they would be the ghosts of the past
and he had made his peace with the past long since; it was the present and the future with
which he had not come to terms. And now there would be no present, no past, no future--but
all merged into one and he was the only one.

At Forty-second Street pigeons fluttered thickly around the public library, fat as ever, their
numbers greater, their appetites grosser. The ancient library, he knew, had changed little
inside: stacks and shelves would still be packed thick with reading matter. Books are bulky,
so only the rare editions had been taken beyond the stars; the rest had been microfilmed and
their originals left to Johnson and decay. It was his library now, and he had all the time
in the world to read all the books in the world--for there were more than he could possibly
read in the years that, even at the most generous estimate, were left to him.

He had been wondering where to make his permanent residence for, with the whole world his,
he would be a fool to confine himself to some modest dwelling. Now he fancied it might be a
good idea to move right into the library. Very few places in Manhattan could boast a garden
of their own.

He stopped the car to stare thoughtfully at the little park behind the grimy monument to Neoclassicism.
Like Central Park, Bryant had already slipped its boundaries and encroached upon Sixth Avenue--Avenue
of the World, the street signs said now, and before that it had been Avenue of the Nations
and Avenue of the Americas, but to the public it had always been Sixth Avenue and to Johnson,
the last man on Earth, it was Sixth Avenue.

He'd live in the library, while he stayed in New York, that was--he'd thought that in a few
weeks, when it got really hot, he might strike north. He had always meant to spend a summer
in Canada. His surface car would probably never last the trip, but the Museum of Ancient Vehicles
had been glad to bestow half a dozen of the bicycles from their exhibits upon him. After all,
he was, in effect, a museum piece himself and so as worth preserving as the bicycles; moreover,
bicycles are difficult to pack for an interstellar trip. With reasonable care, these might
last him his lifetime....

But he had to have a permanent residence somewhere, and the library was an elegant and commodious
dwelling, centrally located. New York would have to be his headquarters, for all the possessions
he had carefully amassed and collected and begged and--since money would do him no good any
more--bought, were here. And there were by far too many of them to be transported to any really
distant location. He loved to own things.

He was by no means an advocate of Rousseau's complete return to nature; whatever civilization
had left that he could use without compromise, he would--and thankfully. There would be no
electricity, of course, but he had provided himself with flashlights and bulbs and batteries--not
too many of the last, of course, because they'd grow stale. However, he'd also laid in plenty
of candles and a vast supply of matches.... Tins of food and concentrates and synthetics, packages
of seed should he grow tired of all these and want to try growing his own--fruit, he knew,
would be growing wild soon enough.... Vitamins and medicines--of course, were he to get really
ill or get hurt in some way, it might be the end ... but that was something he wouldn't think
of--something that couldn't possibly happen to him....

For his relaxation he had an antique hand-wound phonograph, together with thousands of old-fashioned
records. And then, of course, he had the whole planet, the whole world to amuse him.

He even had provided himself with a heat-ray gun and a substantial supply of ammunition, although
he couldn't imagine himself ever killing an animal for food. It was squeamishness that stood
in his way rather than any ethical considerations, although he did indeed believe that every
creature had the right to live. Nonetheless, there was the possibility that the craving for
fresh meat might change his mind for him. Besides, although hostile animals had long been gone
from this part of the world--the only animals would be birds and squirrels and, farther up
the Hudson, rabbits and chipmunks and deer ... perhaps an occasional bear in the mountains--who
knew what harmless life form might become a threat now that its development would be left unchecked? 

The owl is some owl which hoots; and except I am in the woods after poachers, about an hour
before daybreak, I hear with extreme delight with its loud, sudden, and sonorous notes, resounding near
and near through hill and dale. Would some intelligent
life form develop to supplant man? Or would the planet revert to a primeval state of mindless
innocence? He would never know and he didn't really care ... no point in speculating over unanswerable
questions.

He settled back luxuriously on the worn cushions of his car. Even so little as twenty years
before, it would have been impossible for him--for anyone--to stop his vehicle in the middle
of Forty-second Street and Fifth Avenue purely to meditate. But it was his domain now. He could
go in the wrong direction on one-way streets, stop wherever he pleased, drive as fast or as
slowly as he would (and could, of course). If he wanted to do anything as vulgar as spit in
the street, he could (but they were his streets now, not to be sullied) ... cross the roads
without waiting for the lights to change (it would be a long, long wait if he did) ... go to
sleep when he wanted, eat as many meals as he wanted whenever he chose.... He could go naked
in hot weather and there'd be no one to raise an eyebrow, deface public buildings (except that
they were private buildings now, his buildings), idle without the guilty feeling that there
was always something better he could and should be doing ... even if there were not. There
would be no more guilty feelings; without people and their knowledge there was no more guilt.

A flash of movement in the bushes behind the library caught his eye. Surely that couldn't be
a fawn in Bryant Park? It shrieks equally when the moon shines and when the night is rough and
be cloudy; and he who takes no it Hudson d may here see the owl caught no night through when there
is a object; and he may hear it shriek when perching on the trees,
or when it is on people. He would investigate further after he had moved
into the library.

Perhaps a higher building than the library.... But then he would have to climb too many flights
of stairs. The elevators wouldn't be working ... silly of him to forget that. There were a
lot of steps outside the library too--it would be a chore to get his bicycles up those steps.

Then he smiled to himself. Robinson Crusoe would have been glad to have had bicycles and steps
and such relatively harmless animals as bears to worry about. No, Robinson Crusoe never had
it so good as he, Johnson, would have, and what more could he want?

For, whoever before in history had had his dreams--and what was wrong with dreams, after all?--so
completely gratified? What child, envisioning a desert island all his own could imagine that
his island would be the whole world? Together Johnson and the Earth would grow young again.

No, the stars were for others. Johnson was not the first man in history who had wanted the
Earth, but he had been the first man--and probably the last--who had actually been given it.
And he was well content with his bargain.

There was plenty of room for the bears too.

Transcriber's Note:

