With the terrestrial globe in hand, the student can readily construct an image which will represent,
at least in outline, the appearance which the sphere he inhabits would present when seen from
a distance of about a quarter of a million miles away. The continent of Europe-Asia would of
itself appear larger than all the lunar surface which is visible to us. Every continent and
all the greater islands would be clearly indicated. The snow covering which in the winter of
the northern hemisphere wraps so much of the land would be seen to come and go in the changes
of the seasons; even the permanent ice about either pole, and the greater regions of glaciers,
such as those of the Alps and the Himalayas, would appear as brilliant patches of white amid
fields of darker hue. Even the changes in the aspect of the vegetation which at one season
clothes the wide land with a green mantle, and at another assumes the dun hue of winter, would
be, to the unaided eye, very distinct. It is probable that all the greater rivers would be
traceable as lines of light across the relatively dark surface of the continents. By such exercises
of the constructive imagination--indeed, in no other way--the student can acquire the habit
of considering the earth as a vast whole. From time to time as he studies the earth from near
by he should endeavour to assemble the phenomena in the general way which we have indicated.

The reader has doubtless already learned that the earth is a slightly flattened sphere, having
an average diameter of about eight thousand miles, the average section at the equator being
about twenty-six miles greater than that from pole to pole. In a body of such large proportions
this difference in measurement appears not important; it is, however, most significant, for
it throws light upon the history of the earth's mass. Computation shows that the measure of
flattening at the poles is just what would occur if the earth were or had been at the time
when it assumed its present form in a fluid condition. We readily conceive that a soft body
revolving in space, while all its particles by gravitation tended to the centre, would in turning
around, as our earth does upon its axis, tend to bulge out in those parts which were remote
from the line upon which the turning took place. Thus the flattening of our sphere at the poles
corroborates the opinion that its mass was once molten--in a word, that its ancient history
was such as the nebular theory suggests.

Although we have for convenience termed the earth a flattened spheroid, it is only such in
a very general sense. It has an infinite number of minor irregularities which it is the province
of the geographer to trace and that of the geologist to account for. In the first place, its
surface is occupied by a great array of ridges and hollows. The larger of these, the oceans
and continents, first deserve our attention. The difference in altitude of the earth's surface
from the height of the continents to the deepest part of the sea is probably between ten and
eleven miles, thus amounting to about two fifths of the polar flattening before noted. The
average difference between the ocean floor and the summits of the neighbouring continents is
probably rather less than four miles. It happens, most fortunately for the history of the earth,
that the water upon its surface fills its great concavities on the average to about four fifths
of their total depth, leaving only about one fifth of the relief projecting above the ocean
level. We have termed this arrangement fortunate, for it insures that rainfall visits almost
all the land areas, and thereby makes those realms fit for the uses of life. If the ocean had
only half its existing area, the lands would be so wide that only their fringes would be fertile.
If it were one fifth greater than it is, the dry areas would be reduced to a few scattered islands.

From all points of view the most important feature of the earth's surface arises from its division
into land and water areas, and this for the reason that the physical and vital work of our
sphere is inevitably determined by this distribution. The shape of the seas and lands is fixed
by the positions at which the upper level of the great water comes against the ridges which
fret the earth's surface. These elevations are so disposed that about two thirds of the hard
mass is at the present time covered with water, and only one third exposed to the atmosphere.
This proportion is inconstant. Owing to the endless up-and-down goings of the earth's surface,
the place of the shore lines varies from year to year, and in the geological ages great revolutions
in the forms and relative area of water and land are brought about.

Noting the greater divisions of land and water as they are shown on a globe, we readily perceive
that those parts of the continental ridges which rise above the sea level are mainly accumulated
in the northern hemisphere--in fact, far more than half the dry realm is in that part of the
world. We furthermore perceive that all the continents more or less distinctly point to the
southward; they are, in a word, triangles, with their bases to the northward, and their apices,
usually rather acute, directed to the southward. This form is very well indicated in three
of the great lands, North and South America and Africa; it is more indistinctly shown in Asia
and in Australia. As yet we do not clearly understand the reason why the continents are triangular,
why they point toward the south pole, or why they are mainly accumulated in the northern hemisphere.
As stated in the chapter on astronomy, some trace of the triangular form appears in the land
masses of the planet Mars. There, too, these triangles appear to point toward one pole.

Besides the greater lands, the seas are fretted by a host of smaller dry areas, termed islands.
These, as inquiry has shown, are of two very diverse natures. Near the continents, practically
never more than a thousand miles from their shores, we find isles, often of great size, such
as Madagascar, which in their structure are essentially like the continents--that is, they
are built in part or in whole of non-volcanic rocks, sandstones, limestones, etc. In most cases
these islands, to which we may apply the term continental, have at some time been connected
with the neighbouring mainland, and afterward separated from it by a depression of the surface
which permitted the sea to flow over the lowlands. Geologists have traced many cases where
in the past elevations which are now parts of a continent were once islands next its shore.
In the deeper seas far removed from the margins of the continents the islands are made up of
volcanic ejections of lava, pumice, and dust, which has been thrown up from craters and fallen
around their margin or are formed of coral and other organic remains.

Next after this general statement as to the division of sea and land we should note the peculiarities
which the earth's surface exhibits where it is bathed by the air, and where it is covered by
the water. Beginning with the best-known region, that of the dry land, we observe that the
surface is normally made up of continuous slopes of varying declivity, which lead down from
the high points to the sea. Here and there, though rarely, these slopes centre in a basin which
is occupied by a lake or a dead sea. On the deeper ocean floors, so far as we may judge with
the defective information which the plumb line gives us, there is no such continuity in the
downward sloping of the surface, the area being cast into numerous basins, each of great extent.

When we examine in some detail the shape of the land surface, we readily perceive that the
continuous down slopes are due to the cutting action of rivers. In the basin of a stream the
waters act to wear away the original heights, filling them into the hollows, until the whole
area has a continuous down grade to the point where the waters discharge into the ocean or
perhaps into a lake. On the bottom of the sea, except near the margin of the continent, where
the floor may in recent geological times have been elevated into the air, and thus exposed
to river action, there is no such agent working to produce continuous down grades.

Looking upon a map of a continent which shows the differences in altitude of the land, we readily
perceive that the area is rather clearly divided into two kinds of surface, mountains and plains,
each kind being sharply distinguished from the other by many important peculiarities. Mountains
are characteristically made up of distinct, more or less parallel ridges and valleys, which
are grouped in very elongated belts, which, in the case of the American Cordilleras, extend
from the Arctic to the Antarctic Circle. Only in rare instances do we find mountains occupying
an area which is not very distinctly elongated, and in such cases the elevations are usually
of no great height. Plains, on the other hand, commonly occupy the larger part of the continent,
and are distributed around the flanks of the mountain systems. There is no rule as to their
shape; they normally grade away from the bases of the mountains toward the sea, and are often
prolonged below the level of the water for a considerable distance beyond the shore, forming
what is commonly known as the continental shelf or belt of shallows along the coast line. We
will now consider some details concerning the form and structure of mountains.

In almost any mountain region a glance over the surface of the country will give the reader
a clew to the principal factor which has determined the existence of these elevations. Wherever
the bed rocks are revealed he will recognise the fact that they have been much disturbed. Almost
everywhere the strata are turned at high angles; often their slopes are steeper than those
of house roofs, and not infrequently they stand in attitudes where they appear vertical. Under
the surface of plains bedded rocks generally retain the nearly horizontal position in which
all such deposits are most likely to be found. If the observer will attentively study the details
of position of these tilted rocks of mountainous districts, he will in most cases be able to
perceive that the beds have been flexed or folded in the manner indicated by the diagram. Sometimes,
though rarely, the tops of these foldings or arches have been preserved, so that the nature
of the movement can be clearly discerned. More commonly the upper parts of the upward-arching
strata have been cut off by the action of the decay-bringing forces--frost, flowing water,
or creeping ice in glaciers--so that only the downward pointing folds which were formed in
the mountain-making are well preserved, and these are almost invariably hidden within the earth.

