It is said that Dickens held aloof from Punch on account of Thackeray's success in it. If so,
the jealousy must have been all on Dickens' side; for Thackeray's well-known exclamation, when
he hurried into the Punch office and slapped down before Lemon the latest number of "Dombey
and Son" containing Paul Dombey's death, "It's stupendous! unsurpassed! There's no writing
against such power as this!" was that of a generous and magnanimous man. Bryan Proctor ("Barry
Cornwall"), writing to E. Fitzgerald in 1870, said, "I saw a good deal of Thackeray until his
death.... I did not observe much jealousy in Thackeray towards Dickens, nor vice versâ. They
travelled pretty comfortably on their dusty road together. Each had a quantity of good-nature,
and each could afford to be liberal to the other." The probable explanation is that Dickens
simply did not care to interrupt his triumphant career of novelist in order to write occasional
articles in a paper in which anonymity was the rule and rejection so painfully possible.

Once, however, by the hand of Leech, Dickens made an appearance in Punch, and, curiously enough,
only once. This was in the drawing of the awful appearance of a "wopps" at a picnic (p. 76,
Vol. XVII.), where the novelist appears as the handsome, but not very striking, youth attendant
on the young lady who is overcome at the distressing situation. It must be admitted that the
portrait is hardly recognisable.

But a serious quarrel broke out between Dickens and the Punch men, publishers and Editor alike--a
quarrel wholly on Dickens's side. So great had been his intimacy and his influence that he
could cause the insertion of a cartoon and even bring about the alteration of the Dinner day.
But now, on the unhappy differences between himself and his wife, trouble arose between old
friends. Mark Lemon had naturally leaned towards the wife, from chivalry and sense of right,
and the publishers preferred to take no share in a quarrel in which they certainly had no concern.
On May 28, 1859, the whole of the back page of Punch was given to an advertisement of "Once
a Week," which was to follow "Household Words," and to an explanation of the position of affairs
between "Mr. Charles Dickens and his late Publishers." The following paragraphs are all that
it is needful to quote from the statement:--

     "So far as 1836, Bradbury and Evans had business relations with Mr.
     Dickens, and, in 1844, an agreement was entered into by which they
     acquired an interest in all the works he might write, or in any
     periodical he might originate, during a term of seven years. Under
     this agreement Bradbury and Evans became possessed of a joint,
     though unequal, interest with Mr. Dickens in 'Household Words,'
     commenced in 1850. Friendly relations had simultaneously sprung up
     between them, and they were on terms of close intimacy in 1858,
     when circumstances led to Mr. Dickens's publication of a statement,
     on the subject of his conjugal differences, in various newspapers,
     including 'Household Words' of June 12th.

