The next point is offered by the foliage. The leaves of O. biennis are broad, those of O. muricata
narrow. The hybrid has the broad leaves of O. biennis during most of its life and at the time
of flowering. Yet small deviations in the [259] direction of the other parent are not wanting,
and in winter the leaves of the hybrid rosettes are often much narrower than those of O. biennis,
and easily distinguishable from both parents. A third distinction consists in the density of
the spike. The distance between the insertion of the flowers of O. biennis is great when compared
with that of O. muricata. Hence the flowers of the latter species are more crowded and those
of O. biennis more dispersed, the spikes of the first being densely crowned with flowers and
flower-buds while those of O. biennis are more elongated and slender. As a further consequence
the O. biennis opens on the same evening only one, two or three flowers on the same spike,
whereas O. muricata bears often eight or ten or more flowers at a time. In this respect the
hybrid is similar to the pistil-parent, and the crowding of the broad flowers at the top of
the spikes causes the hybrids to be much more showy than either of the parent types.

Other distinguishing marks are not recorded by the systematists, or are not so sharply separated
as to allow of the corresponding qualities of the hybrids being compared with them.

This hybrid remains true to the description given. In some years I cultivated two generations
[260] so as to be able to compare them with one another, but did not find any difference. The
most interesting point however, is the likeness between the first generation, which obviously
must combine in its internal structure the units of both parents, and the second and later
generations which are only of a derivative nature. Next to this stands the fact that in each
generation all individuals are alike. No reversion to the parental forms either in the whole
type or in the single characteristics has ever been observed, though the leaves of some hundreds,
and the spikes and flowers of some 150 individual plants have been carefully examined. No segregation
or splitting up takes place.

Here we have a clear, undoubted and relatively simple, case of a true and pure species hybrid.
No occurrence of possible varietal characteristics obscures the result, and in this respect
this hybrid stands out much more clearly than all those between garden-plants, where varietal
marks nearly always play a most important part.

From the breeder's point of view our hybrid Oenothera would be a distinct gain, were it not
for the difficulty of its propagation. But to enlarge the range of the varieties this simple
and stable form would need to be treated anew, by [261] crossing it with the parent-types.
Such experiments however, have miscarried owing to the too stable nature of the unit-characters.

This stability and this absence of the splitting shown by varietal marks in the offspring of
hybrids is one of the best proofs of unisexual unions. It is often obscured by the accompanying
varietal marks, or overlooked for this reason. Only in rare cases it is to be met with in a
pure state and some examples are given of this below.

Before doing so, I must call your attention to another feature of the unbalanced unions. This
is the diminution of the fertility, a phenomenon universally known as occurring in hybridizations.
It has two phases. First, the diminished chance of the crosses themselves of giving full crops
of seed, as compared with the pure fertilization of either parent. And, secondly, the fertility
of the hybrids themselves. Seemingly, all grades of diminished fertility occur and the oldest
authors on hybrids have pointed out that a very definite relation exists between the differences
of the parents and the degree of sterility, both of the cross and of the hybrid offspring.
In a broad sense these two factors are proportionate to each other, the sterility being the
greater, the lesser the affinity between the parents. Many writers have [262] tried to trace
this rule in the single cases, but have met with nearly unsurmountable difficulties, owing
chiefly to our ignorance of the units which form the differences between the parents in the
observed cases.

In the case of Oenothera muricata x biennis the differentiating units reduce the fertility
to a low degree, threatening the offspring with almost complete infertility and extinction.
But then we do not know whether these characters are really units, or perhaps only seemingly
so and are in reality composed of smaller entities which as yet we are not able to segregate.
And as long as we are devoid of empirical means of deciding such questions, it seems useless
to go farther into the details of the question of the sterility. It should be stated here however,
that pure varietal crosses, when not accompanied by unbalanced characters, have never showed
any tendency to diminished fertility. Hence there can be little doubt that the unpaired units
are the cause of this decrease in reproductive power.

The genus Oenothera is to a large degree devoid of varietal characteristics, especially in
the subgenus Onagra, to which biennis, muricata, lamarckiana and some others belong. On the
other hand it seems to be rich in elementary species, but an adequate study of [263] them has
as yet not been made. Unfortunately many of the better systematists are in the habit of throwing
all these interesting forms together, and of omitting their descriptive study. I have made
a large number of crosses between such undescribed types and as a rule got constant hybrid
races. Only one or two exceptions could be quoted, as for instance the Oenothera brevistylis,
which in its crosses always behaves as a pure retrogressive variety. Instead of giving an exhaustive
survey of hybrids, I simply cite my crosses between lamarckiana and biennis, as having nearly
the aspect of the last named species, and remaining true to this in the second generation without
any sign of reversion or of splitting. I have crossed another elementary species, the Oenothera
hirtella with some of my new and with some older Linnean species, and got several constant
hybrid races. Among these the offspring of a cross between muricata and hirtella is still in
cultivation. The cross was made in the summer of 1897 and last year (1903) I grew the fourth
generation of the hybrids. These had the characters of the muricata in their narrow leaves,
but the elongated spikes and relatively large flowers of the hirtella parent, and remained
true to this type, showing only slight fluctuations and never reverting or segregating [264]
the mixed characters. Both parents bear large capsules with an abundance of seed, but in the
hybrids the capsules remain narrow and weak, ripening not more than one-tenth the usual quantity
of seed. Both parents are easily cultivated in annual generations and the same holds good for
the hybrid. But whereas the hybrid of muricata and biennis is a stout plant, this type is weak
with badly developed foliage, and very long strict spikes. Perhaps it was not able to withstand
the bad weather of the last few years.

A goodly number of constant hybrids are described in literature, or cultivated in fields and
gardens. In such cases the essential question is not whether they are now constant, but whether
they have been so from the beginning, or whether they prove to be constant whenever the original
cross is repeated. For constant hybrids may also be the issue of incipient splittings, as we
shall soon see.

Among other examples we may begin with the hybrid alfalfa or hybrid lucerne (Medicago media).
It often originates spontaneously between the common purple lucerne or alfalfa and its wild
ally with yellow flowers and procumbent stems, the Medicago falcata. This hybrid is cultivated
in some parts of Germany on a large scale, as it is more productive than [265] the ordinary
lucerne. It always comes true from seed and may be seen in a wild state in parks and on lawns.
It is one of the oldest hybrids with a pure and known lineage. The original cross has been
repeated by Urban, who found the hybrid race to be constant from the beginning.

Another very notorious constant hybrid race is the Aegilops speltaeformis. It has been cultivated
in botanic gardens for more than half a century, mostly in annual or biennial generations.
It is sufficiently fertile and always comes true. Numerous records have been made of it, since
formerly it was believed by Fabre and others to be a spontaneous transition from some wild
species of grass to the ordinary wheat, not a cross. Godron, however, showed that it can be
produced artificially, and how it has probably sprung into existence wherever it is found wild.
The hybrid between Aegilops ovata, a small weed, and the common wheat is of itself sterile,
producing no good pollen. But it may be fertilized by the pollen of wheat and then gives rise
to a secondary hybrid, which is no other than the Aegilops speltaeformis. This remained constant
in Godron's experiments during a number of generations, and has been constant up to the present
time.

[266] Constant hybrids have been raised by Millardet between several species of strawberries.
He combined the old cultivated forms with newly discovered types from American localities.
They ordinarily showed only the characteristics of one of their parents and did not exhibit
any new combination of qualities, but they came true to this type in the second and later generations.

In the genus Anemone, Janczewski obtained the same results. Some characters of course may split,
but others remain constant, and when only such are present, hybrid races result with new combinations
of characters, which are as constant as the best species of the same genus. The hybrids of
Janczewski were quite fertile, and he points out that there is no good reason why they should
not be considered as good new species. If they had not been produced artificially, but found
in the wild state, their origin would have been unknown, and there can be no doubt that they
would have been described by the best systematists as species of the same value as their parents.
Such is especially the case with a hybrid between Anemone magellanica and the common Anemone
sylvestris.

Starting from similar considerations Kerner von Marilaun pointed out the fact long ago that
many so-called species, of rare occurrence, [267] standing between two allied types, may be
considered to have originated by a cross. Surely a wide field for abuse is opened by such an
assertion, and it is quite a common habit to consider intermediate forms as hybrids, on the
grounds afforded by their external characters alone, and without any exact knowledge of their
real origin and often without knowing anything as to their constancy from seed. All such apparent
explanations are now slowly becoming antiquated and obsolete, but the cases adduced by Kerner
seem to stand this test.

Kerner designates a willow, Salix ehrhartiana as a constant hybrid between Salix alba and S.
pentandra. Rhododendron intermedium is an intermediate form between the hairy and the rusty
species from the Swiss Alps, R. hirsutum and R. ferrugineum, the former growing on chalky,
and the other on silicious soils. Wherever both these types of soil occur in the same valley
and these two species approach one another, the hybrid R. intermedium is produced, and is often
seen to be propagating itself abundantly. As is indicated by the name, it combines the essential
characters of both parents.

