The summer and fall of 1879 Muir always referred to as the most interesting period of his adventurous
life. From about the tenth of July to the twentieth of November he was in southeastern Alaska.
Very little of this time did he spend indoors. Until steamboat navigation of the Stickeen River
was closed by the forming ice, he made frequent trips to the Great Glacier--thirty miles up
the river, to the Hot Springs, the Mud Glacier and the interior lakes, ranges, forests and
flower pastures. Always upon his return (for my house was his home the most of that time) he
would be full to intoxication of what he had seen, and dinners would grow cold and lamps burn
out while he held us entranced with his impassioned stories. Although his books are all masterpieces
of lucid and glowing English, Muir was one of those rare souls who talk better than they write;
and he made the trees, the animals, and especially the glaciers, live before us. Somehow a
glacier never seemed cold when John Muir was talking about it.

On September nineteenth a little stranger whose expected advent was keeping me at home arrived
in the person of our first-born daughter. For two or three weeks preceding and following this
event Muir was busy writing his summer notes and finishing his pencil sketches, and also studying
the flora of the islands. It was a season of constant rains when the saanah, the southeast
rain-wind, blew a gale. But these stormy days and nights, which kept ordinary people indoors,
always lured him out into the woods or up the mountains.

One wild night, dark as Erebus, the rain dashing in sheets and the wind blowing a hurricane,
Muir came from his room into ours about ten o'clock with his long, gray overcoat and his Scotch
cap on.

"Where now?" I asked.

"Oh, to the top of the mountain," he replied. "It is a rare chance to study this fine storm."

My expostulations were in vain. He rejected with scorn the proffered lantern: "It would spoil
the effect." I retired at my usual time, for I had long since learned not to worry about Muir.
At two o'clock in the morning there came a hammering at the front door. I opened it and there
stood a group of our Indians, rain-soaked and trembling--Chief Tow-a-att, Moses, Aaron, Matthew,
Thomas.

"Why, men," I cried, "what's wrong? What brings you here?"

"We want you play (pray)," answered Matthew.

I brought them into the house, and, putting on my clothes and lighting the lamp, I set about
to find out the trouble. It was not easy. They were greatly excited and frightened.

"We scare. All Stickeen scare; plenty cly. We want you play God; plenty play."

By dint of much questioning I gathered at last that the whole tribe were frightened by a mysterious
light waving and flickering from the top of the little mountain that overlooked Wrangell; and
they wished me to pray to the white man's God and avert dire calamity.

"Some miner has camped there," I ventured.

An eager chorus protested; it was not like the light of a camp-fire in the least; it waved
in the air like the wings of a spirit. Besides, there was no gold on the top of a hill like
that; and no human being would be so foolish as to camp up there on such a night, when there
were plenty of comfortable houses at the foot of the hill. It was a spirit, a malignant spirit.

Suddenly the true explanation flashed into my brain, and I shocked my Indians by bursting into
a roar of laughter. In imagination I could see him so plainly--John Muir, wet but happy, feeding
his fire with spruce sticks, studying and enjoying the storm! But I explained to my natives,
who ever afterwards eyed Muir askance, as a mysterious being whose ways and motives were beyond
all conjecture.

"Why does this strange man go into the wet woods and up the mountains on stormy nights?" they
asked. "Why does he wander alone on barren peaks or on dangerous ice-mountains? There is no
gold up there and he never takes a gun with him or a pick. Icta mamook--what make? Why--why?"

The first week in October saw the culmination of plans long and eagerly discussed. Almost the
whole of the Alexandrian Archipelago, that great group of eleven hundred wooded islands that
forms the southeastern cup-handle of Alaska, was at that time a terra incognita. The only seaman's
chart of the region in existence was that made by the great English navigator, Vancouver, in
1807. It was a wonderful chart, considering what an absurd little sailing vessel he had in
which to explore those intricate waters with their treacherous winds and tides.

But Vancouver's chart was hastily made, after all, in a land of fog and rain and snow. He had
not the modern surveyor's instruments, boats or other helps. And, besides, this region was
changing more rapidly than, perhaps, any other part of the globe. Volcanic islands were being
born out of the depths of the ocean; landslides were filling up channels between the islands;
tides and rivers were opening new passages and closing old ones; and, more than all, those
mightiest tools of the great Engineer, the glaciers, were furrowing valleys, dumping millions
of tons of silt into the sea, forming islands, promontories and isthmuses, and by their recession
letting the sea into deep and long fiords, forming great bays, inlets and passages, many of
which did not exist in Vancouver's time. In certain localities the living glacier stream was
breaking off bergs so fast that the resultant bays were lengthening a mile or more each year.
Where Vancouver saw only a great crystal wall across the sea, we were to paddle for days up
a long and sinuous fiord; and where he saw one glacier, we were to find a dozen.

My mission in the proposed voyage of discovery was to locate and visit the tribes and villages
of Thlingets to the north and west of Wrangell, to take their census, confer with their chiefs
and report upon their condition, with a view to establishing schools and churches among them.
The most of these tribes had never had a visit from a missionary, and I felt the eager zeal
an Eliot or a Martin at the prospect of telling them for the first time the Good News. Muir's
mission was to find and study the forests, mountains and glaciers. I also was eager to see
these and learn about them, and Muir was glad to study the natives with me--so our plans fitted
into each other well.

"We are going to write some history, my boy," Muir would say to me. "Think of the honor! We
have been chosen to put some interesting people and some of Nature's grandest scenes on the
page of human record and on the map. Hurry! We are daily losing the most important news of
all the world."

In many respects we were most congenial companions. We both loved the same poets and could
repeat, verse about, many poems of Tennyson, Keats, Shelley and Burns. He took with him a volume
of Thoreau, and I one of Emerson, and we enjoyed them together. I had my printed Bible with
me, and he had his in his head--the result of a Scotch father's discipline. Our studies supplemented
each other and our tastes were similar. We had both lived clean lives and our conversation
together was sweet and high, while we both had a sense of humor and a large fund of stories.

But Muir's knowledge of Nature and his insight into her plans and methods were so far beyond
mine that, while I was organizer and commander of the expedition, he was my teacher and guide
into the inner recesses and meanings of the islands, bays and mountains we explored together.

Our ship for this voyage of discovery, while not so large as Vancouver's, was much more shapely
and manageable--a kladushu etlan (six fathom) red-cedar canoe. It belonged to our captain,
old Chief Tow-a-att, a chief who had lately embraced Christianity with his whole heart--one
of the simplest, most faithful, dignified and brave souls I ever knew. He fully expected to
meet a martyr's death among his heathen enemies of the northern islands; yet he did not shrink
from the voyage on that account.

His crew numbered three. First in importance was Kadishan, also a chief of the Stickeens, chosen
because of his powers of oratory, his kinship with Chief Shathitch of the Chilcat tribe, and
his friendly relations with other chiefs. He was a born courtier, learned in Indian lore, songs
and customs, and able to instruct me in the proper Thlinget etiquette to suit all occasions.
The other two were sturdy young men--Stickeen John, our interpreter, and Sitka Charley. They
were to act as cooks, camp-makers, oarsmen, hunters and general utility men.

We stowed our baggage, which was not burdensome, in one end of the canoe, taking a simple store
of provisions--flour, beans, bacon, sugar, salt and a little dried fruit. We were to depend
upon our guns, fishhooks, spears and clamsticks for other diet. As a preliminary to our palaver
with the natives we followed the old Hudson Bay custom, then firmly established in the North.
We took materials for a potlatch,--leaf-tobacco, rice and sugar. Our Indian crew laid in their
own stock of provisions, chiefly dried salmon and seal-grease, while our table was to be separate,
set out with the white man's viands.

We did not get off without trouble. Kadishan's mother, who looked but little older than himself,
strongly objected to my taking her son on so perilous a voyage and so late in the fall, and
when her scoldings and entreaties did not avail she said: "If anything happens to my son, I
will take your baby as mine in payment."

One sunny October day we set our prow to the unknown northwest. Our hearts beat high with anticipation.
Every passage between the islands was a corridor leading into a new and more enchanting room
of Nature's great gallery. The lapping waves whispered enticing secrets, while the seabirds
screaming overhead and the eagles shrilling from the sky promised wonderful adventures.

The voyage naturally divides itself into the human interest and the study of nature; yet the
two constantly blended throughout the whole voyage. I can only select a few instances from
that trip of six weeks whose every hour was new and strange.

Our captain, taciturn and self-reliant, commanded Muir's admiration from the first. His paddle
was sure in the stern, his knowledge of the wind and tide unfailing. Whenever we landed the
crew would begin to dispute concerning the best place to make camp. But old Tow-a-att, with
the mast in his hand, would march straight as an arrow to the likeliest spot of all, stick
down his mast as a tent-pole and begin to set up the tent, the others invariably acquiescing
in his decision as the best possible choice.

At our first meal Muir's sense of humor cost us one-third of a roll of butter. We invited our
captain to take dinner with us. I got out the bread and other viands, and set the two-pound
roll of butter beside the bread and placed both by Tow-a-att. He glanced at the roll of butter
and at the three who were to eat, measured with his eye one-third of the roll, cut it off with
his hunting knife and began to cut it into squares and eat it with great gusto. I was about
to interfere and show him the use we made of butter, but Muir stopped me with a wink. The old
chief calmly devoured his third of the roll, and rubbing his stomach with great satisfaction
pronounced it "hyas klosh (very good) glease."

Of necessity we had chosen the rainiest season of the year in that dampest climate of North
America, where there are two hundred and twenty-five rainy days out of the three hundred and
sixty-five. During our voyage it did not rain every day, but the periods of sunshine were so
rare as to make us hail them with joyous acclamation.

