"All right, sir," said the other, pushing aside the volume he had been consulting. "We'll find
the man for you from the hotel books, and what is more, we can see those two Keswicks that
I found last. Perhaps they were relations of his, and he was staying with them. If you put
the matter in our hands, we'll give you the address to-morrow night, provided it's an ordinary
case. But if he has gone to Australia or Japan, of course, it'll take longer. Is it crime or
relationship?"

"Neither," replied Lawrence.

"It is generally one of them," said the man, "and if it's crime we carry it on to a certain
point, and then put it into the hands of the detectives, for we've nothing to do with police
business, private or otherwise. But if it's relationship, we'll go right through with it to
the end. Any kind of information you may want we'll give you here; scientific, biographical,
business, healthfulness of localities, genuineness of antiquities, age and standing of individuals,
purity of liquors or teas from sample, Bible items localized, china verified; in fact, anything
you want to know we can tell you. Of course we don't pretend that we know all these things,
but we know the people who do know, or who can find them out. By coming to us, and paying a
small sum, the most valuable information, which it would take you years to find out, can be
secured with certainty, and generally in a few days. We know what to do, and where to go, and
that's the point. If it's a new bug, or a microscope insect we put it into the hands of a man
who knows just what high scientific authority to apply to; if it's the middle name of your
next door neighbor we'll give it to you from his baptismal record. I'm getting up a pamphlet-circular
which will be ready in about a week, and which will fully explain our methods of business,
with the charges for the different items, etc."

"Well," said Lawrence, taking out his pocket-book, "I want the address of Junius Keswick, and
I think I will let you look it up for me. What is your charge?"

"It will be two dollars," said the man, "ordinary; and if we find inquiries run into other
countries we will make special terms. And then there's seven cents, one for your look, and
two threes for ours. You shall hear from us to-morrow night at your hotel or residence, unless
you prefer to call here."

"I will call the day after to-morrow," said Lawrence, producing a five-dollar note.

"Very good," replied the proprietor. "Will you please pay the cashier?" pointing at the same
time to a desk behind Lawrence which the latter had not noticed.

Approaching this desk, the top of which, except for a small space in front, was surrounded
by short curtains, he saw a young girl busily engaged in reading a book. He proffered her the
note, the proprietor at the same time calling out: "Two, seven."

The girl turned the book down to keep the place; then she took the note, and opened a small
drawer, in which she fumbled for some moments. Closing the drawer, she rose to her feet and
waved the note over the curtain to her right. "Haven't any change, eh?" said the man, coming
from behind the counter, and putting on his hat. "As the boy's not here, I'll step out and get it."

The girl turned up her book, and began to read again, and Lawrence stood and looked at her,
wondering what need there was of a cashier in a place like this. She appeared to be under twenty,
rather thin-faced, and was plainly dressed. In a few moments she raised her eyes from her book,
and said: "Won't you sit down, sir? I am sorry you have to wait, but we are short of change
to-day, and sometimes it is hard to get it in this neighborhood."

Lawrence declined to be seated, but was very willing to talk. "Was it the proprietor of this
establishment," he asked, "who went out to get the money changed??"

"Yes, sir," she answered. "That is Mr Candy."

"A queer name," said Lawrence, smiling.

The girl looked up at him, and smiled in return. There was a very perceptible twinkle in her
eyes, which seemed to be eyes that would like to be merry ones, and a slight movement of the
corners of her mouth which indicated a desire to say something in reply, but, restrained probably
by loyalty to her employer, or by prudent discretion regarding conversation with strangers,
she was silent.

Lawrence, however, continued his remarks. "The whole business seems to me very odd. Suppose
I were to come here and ask for information as to where I could get a five-dollar note changed;
would Mr Candy be able to tell me?"

"He would do in that case just as he does in all others," she said; "first, he would go and
find out, and then he would let you know. Giving information is only half the business; finding
things out is the other half. That's what he's doing now."

"So, when he comes back," said Lawrence, "he'll have a new bit of information to add to his
stock on hand, which must be a very peculiar one, I fancy."

The cashier smiled. "Yes," she said, "and a very useful one, too, if people only knew it."

"Don't they know it?" asked Lawrence. "Don't you have plenty of custom?"

At this moment the door opened, Mr Candy entered, and the conversation stopped.

"Sorry to keep you waiting, sir," said the proprietor, passing some money to the cashier over
the curtain, who, thereupon, handed two dollars and ninety-three cents to Lawrence through
the little opening in front.

"If you call the day after to-morrow, the information will be ready for you," said Mr Candy,
as the gentleman departed.

On the appointed day, Lawrence came again, and found nobody in the place but the cashier, who
handed him a note.

"Mr Candy left this for you, in case he should not be in when you called," she said.

The note stated that the search for the address of Junius Keswick had opened very encouragingly,
but as it was quite evident that said person was not now in the city, the investigations would
have to be carried on on a more extended scale, and a deposit of three dollars would be necessary
to meet expenses.

Lawrence looked from the note to the cashier, who had been watching him as he read. "Does Mr
Candy want me to leave three dollars with you?" he asked.

"That's what he said, sir."

"Well," said Lawrence, "I don't care about paying for unlimited investigation in this way.
If the gentleman I am in search of has left the city, and Mr Candy has been able to find out
to what place he went, he should have told me that, and I would have decided whether or not
I wanted him to do anything more."

The face of the cashier appeared troubled. "I think, sir," she said, "that if you leave the
money, Mr Candy will do all he can to discover what you wish to know, and that it will not
be very long before you have the address of the person you are seeking."

"Do you really think he has any clew?" asked Lawrence.

This question did not seem to please the cashier, and she answered gravely, though without
any show of resentment: "That is a strange question after I advised you to leave the money."

Lawrence had a kind heart, and it reproached him. "I beg your pardon," said he. "I will leave
the money with you, but I desire that Mr Candy will, in his next communication, give me all
the information he has acquired up to the moment of writing, and then I will decide whether
it is worth while to go on with the matter, or not."

He, thereupon, took out his pocket-book and handed three dollars to the cashier, who, with
an air of deliberate thoughtfulness, smoothed out the two notes, and placed them in her drawer.
Then she said: "If you will leave your address, sir, I will see that you receive your information
as soon as possible. That will be better than for you to call, because I can't tell you when
to come."

"Very well," said Lawrence, "and I will be obliged to you if you will hurry up Mr Candy as
much as you can." And, handing her his card, he went his way.

The way of Lawrence Croft was generally a very pleasant one, for the fortunate conditions of
his life made it possible for him to go around most of the rough places which might lie in
it. His family was an old one, and a good one, but there was very little of it left, and of
its scattered remnants he was the most important member. But although circumstances did not
force him to do anything in particular, he liked to believe that he was a rigid master to himself,
and whatever he did was always done with a purpose. When he travelled he had an object in view;
when he stayed at home the case was the same.

His present purpose was the most serious one of his life: he wished to marry; and, if she should
prove to be the proper person, he wished to marry Roberta March; and as a preliminary step
in the carrying out of his purpose, he wanted very much to know what sort of man Miss March
had once been willing to marry.

When five days had elapsed without his hearing from Mr Candy, he became impatient and betook
himself to the green door with the tin sign. Entering, he found only the boy and the cashier.
Addressing himself to the latter, he asked if anything had been done in his business.

"Yes, sir," she said, "and I hoped Mr Candy would write you a letter this morning before he
went out, but he didn't. He traced the gentleman to Niagara Falls, and I think you'll hear
something very soon."

"If inquiries have to be carried on outside of the city," said Lawrence, "they will probably
cost a good deal, and come to nothing. I think I will drop the matter as far as Mr Candy is
concerned."

"I wish you would give us a little more time," said the girl. "I am sure you will hear something
in a few days, and you need not be afraid there will be anything more to pay unless you are
satisfied that you have received the full worth of the money."

Lawrence reflected for a few moments, and then concluded to let the matter go on. "Tell Mr
Candy to keep me frequently informed of the progress of the affair," said he, "and if he is
really of any service to me I am willing to pay him, but not otherwise."

"That will be all right," said the cashier, "and if Mr Candy is--is prevented from doing it,
I'll write to you myself, and keep you posted."

As soon as the customer had gone, the boy, who had been sitting on the counter, thus spoke
to the cashier: "You know very well that old Mintstick has given that thing up!"

"I know he has," said the girl, "but I have not."

"You haven't anything to do with it," said the boy.

"Yes, I have," she answered. "I advised that gentleman to pay his money, and I'm not going
to see him cheated out of it. Of course, Mr Candy doesn't mean to cheat him, but he has gone
into that business about the origin of the tame blackberry, and there's no knowing when he'll
get back to this thing, which is not in his line, anyway."

"I should say it wasn't!" exclaimed the boy with a loud laugh. "Sendin' me to look up them
two Keswicks, who was both put down as cordwainers in year before last's directory, and askin'
'em if there was any Juniuses in their families."

"Junius Keswick, did you say? Is that the name of the gentleman Mr Candy was looking for?"

"Yes," said the boy.

Presently the cashier remarked: "I am going to look at the books." And she betook herself to
the desk at the back part of the shop.

In about half an hour she returned and handed to the boy a memorandum upon a scrap of paper.
"You go out now to your lunch," she said, "and while you are out, stop at the St. Winifred
Hotel, where Mr Candy found the name of Junius Keswick, and see if it is not down again not
long after the date which I have put on this slip of paper. I think if a person went to Niagara
Falls he'd be just as likely to make a little trip of it and come back again as to keep travelling
on, which Mr Candy supposes he did. If you find the name again, put down the date of arrival
on this, and see if there was any memorandum about forwarding letters."

"All right," said the boy. "But I'll be gone an hour and a half. Can't cut into my lunch time."

In the course of a few days Lawrence Croft received a note signed Candy & Co. "per" some illegible
initials, which stated that Mr Junius Keswick had been traced to a boarding-house in the city,
but as the establishment had been broken up for some time, endeavors were now being made to
find the lady who had kept the house, and when this was done it would most likely be possible
to discover from her where Mr Keswick had gone.

Lawrence waited a few days and then called at the Information Shop. Again was Mr Candy absent;
and so was the boy. The cashier informed him that she had found--that is, that the lady who
kept the boarding-house had been found--and she thought she remembered the gentlemen in question,
and promised, as soon as she could, to look through a book, in which she used to keep directions
for the forwarding of letters, and in this way another clew might soon be expected.

"This seems to be going on better," said Lawrence, "but Mr Candy doesn't show much in the affair.
Who is managing it? You?"

The girl blushed and then laughed, a little confusedly. "I am only the cashier," she said.

"And the laborious duties of your position would, of course, give you no time for anything
else," remarked Lawrence.

"Oh, well," said the girl, "of course it is easy enough for any one to see that I haven't much
to do as cashier, but the boy and Mr Candy are nearly always out, looking up things, and I
have to do other business besides attending to cash."

"If you are attending to my business," said Lawrence, "I am very glad, especially now that
it has reached the boarding-house stage, where I think a woman will be better able to work
than a man. Are you doing this entirely independent of Mr Candy?"

"Well, sir," said the cashier, with an honest, straightforward look from her gray eyes that
pleased Lawrence, "I may as well confess that I am. But there's nothing mean about it. He has
all the same as given it up, for he's waiting to hear from a man at Niagara, who will never
write to him, and probably hasn't any thing to write, and as I advised you to pay the money
I feel bound in honor to see that the business is done, if it can be done."

"Have you a brother or a husband to help you in these investigations and searches?" asked Lawrence.

"No," said the cashier with a smile. "Sometimes I send our boy, and as to boarding houses,
I can go to them myself after we shut up here."

"I wish," said Lawrence, "that you were married, and that you had a husband who would not interfere
in this matter at all, but who would go about with you, and so enable you to follow up your
clew thoroughly. You take up the business in the right spirit, and I believe you would succeed
in finding Mr Keswick, but I don't like the idea of sending you about by yourself."

"I won't deny," said the cashier, "that since I have begun this affair I would like very much
to carry it out; so, if you don't object, I won't give it up just yet, and as soon as anything
happens I'll let you know."

CHAPTER III.

