THE BRIDE OF LAMMERMOOR

by Sir Walter Scott

INTRODUCTION TO THE BRIDE OF LAMMERMOOR

THE Author, on a former occasion, declined giving the real source from which he drew the tragic
subject of this history, because, though occurring at a distant period, it might possibly be
unpleasing to the feelings of the descendants of the parties. But as he finds an account of
the circumstances given in the Notes to Law's Memorials, by his ingenious friend, Charles Kirkpatrick
Sharpe, Esq., and also indicated in his reprint of the Rev. Mr. Symson's poems appended to
the Large Description of Galloway, as the original of the Bride of Lammermoor, the Author feels
himself now at liberty to tell the tale as he had it from connexions of his own, who lived
very near the period, and were closely related to the family of the bride.

He married Margaret, daughter to Ross of Balneel, with whom he obtained a considerable estate.
She was an able, politic, and high-minded woman, so successful in what she undertook, that
the vulgar, no way partial to her husband or her family, imputed her success to necromancy.
According to the popular belief, this Dame Margaret purchased the temporal prosperity of her
family from the Master whom she served under a singular condition, which is thus narrated by
the historian of her grandson, the great Earl of Stair: "She lived to a great age, and at her
death desired that she might not be put under ground, but that her coffin should stand upright
on one end of it, promising that while she remained in that situation the Dalrymples should
continue to flourish. What was the old lady's motive for the request, or whether she really
made such a promise, I shall not take upon me to determine; but it's certain her coffin stands
upright in the isle of the church of Kirklistown, the burial-place belonging to the family."
The talents of this accomplished race were sufficient to have accounted for the dignities which
many members of the family attained, without any supernatural assistance. But their extraordinary
prosperity was attended by some equally singular family misfortunes, of which that which befell
their eldest daughter was at once unaccountable and melancholy. Shortly after, a suitor who
was favoured by Lord Stair, and still more so by his lady, paid his addresses to Miss Dalrymple.
The young lady refused the proposal, and being pressed on the subject, confessed her secret
engagement. The first lover, a man of very high spirit, then interfered by letter, and insisted
on the right he had acquired by his troth plighted with the young lady.

The lover, in return, declined positively to receive such an answer from any one but his mistress
in person; and as she had to deal with a man who was both of a most determined character and
of too high condition to be trifled with, Lady Stair was obliged to consent to an interview
between Lord Rutherford and her daughter. But she took care to be present in person, and argued
the point with the disappointed and incensed lover with pertinacity equal to his own. 2-5.

While the mother insisted on these topics, the lover in vain conjured the daughter to declare
her own opinion and feelings. On this he burst forth into a tremendous passion, took leave
of the mother with maledictions, and as he left the apartment, turned back to say to his weak,
if not fickle, mistresss: "For you, madam, you will be a world's wonder"; a phrase by which
some remarkable degree of calamity is usually implied. He went abroad, and returned not again.
If the last Lord Rutherford was the unfortunate party, he must have been the third who bore
that title, and who died in 1685.

The marriage betwixt Janet Dalrymple and David Dunbar of Baldoon now went forward, the bride
showing no repugnance, but being absolutely passive in everything her mother commanded or advised.
On the day of the marriage, which, as was then usual, was celebrated by a great assemblage
of friends and relations, she was the same--sad, silent, and resigned, as it seemed, to her
destiny. A lady, very nearly connected with the family, told the Author that she had conversed
on the subject with one of the brothers of the bride, a mere lad at the time, who had ridden
before his sister to church. He said her hand, which lay on his as she held her arm around
his waist, was as cold and damp as marble. But, full of his new dress and the part he acted
in the procession, the circumstance, which he long afterwards remembered with bitter sorrow
and compunction, made no impression on him at the time.

The bridal feast was followed by dancing. The bride and bridegroom retired as usual, when of
a sudden the most wild and piercing cries were heard from the nuptial chamber. It was then
the custom, to prevent any coarse pleasantry which old times perhaps admitted, that the key
of the nuptial chamber should be entrusted to the bridesman. He was called upon, but refused
at first to give it up, till the shrieks became so hideous that he was compelled to hasten
with others to learn the cause. On opening the door, they found the bridegroom lying across
the threshold, dreadfully wounded, and streaming with blood. The bride was then sought for.
She was found in the corner of the large chimney, having no covering save her shift, and that
dabbled in gore. There she sat grinning at them, mopping and mowing, as I heard the expression
used; in a word, absolutely insane. The only words she spoke were, "Tak up your bonny bridegroom."
She survived this horrible scene little more than a fortnight, having been married on the 24th
of August, and dying on the 12th of September 1669.

The unfortunate Baldoon recovered from his wounds, but sternly prohibited all inquiries respecting
the manner in which he had received them. "If a lady," he said, "asked him any question upon
the subject, he would neither answer her nor speak to her again while he lived; if a gentleman,
he would consider it as a mortal affront, and demand satisfaction as having received such."
He did not very long survive the dreadful catastrophe, having met with a fatal injury by a
fall from his horse, as he rode between Leith and Holyrood House, of which he died the next
day, 28th March 1682. Thus a few years removed all the principal actors in this frightful tragedy.

Various reports went abroad on this mysterious affair, many of them very inaccurate, though
they could hardly be said to be exaggerated. It was difficult at that time to become acquainted
with the history of a Scottish family above the lower rank; and strange things sometimes took
place there, into which even the law did not scrupulously inquire.

The credulous Mr. Law says, generally, that the Lord President Stair had a daughter, who, "being
married, the night she was bride in, was taken from her bridegroom and harled through the house
(by spirits, we are given to understand) and afterward died. Another daughter," he says, "was
supposed to be possessed with an evil spirit."

My friend, Mr. Sharpe, gives another edition of the tale. According to his information, ti
was the bridegroom who wounded the bride. The marriage, according to this account, had been
against her mother's inclination, who had given her consent in these ominous words: "Weel,
you may marry him, but sair shall you repent it."

