The fort of Detroit was originally constructed to overawe the neighbouring Indian nations,
and its military importance as the key of the upper lakes appears to have been well known to
them. But, neither possessing battering cannon nor understanding the art of attacking fortified
places, they could only reduce them by stratagem or famine, and Detroit could always be supplied
with provisions by water. In the year 1763, the Indian chief, Pontiac, whose name has already
appeared, (page 164), formed a powerful confederacy of the different tribes, for the purpose
of revenging their past wrongs and of preventing their total extirpation, which they were erroneously
led to believe was contemplated. In a sudden, general, and simultaneous irruption on the British
frontier, they obtained possession, chiefly by stratagem, of Michilimakinack,[77] Presqu'île,
and several smaller posts; but there still remained three fortresses formidable alike by their
strength and position, which it was necessary the Indians should subdue before they could reap
any permanent advantage from their successes. These were Detroit, Niagara, and Pittsburg; and
the first and last, although so remote from each other, were invested almost at the same moment.
The consummate address, which the Indians displayed in this alarming war, was supported by
a proportionate degree of courage, determination, and perseverance; nor ever did they approve
themselves a more stubborn and formidable enemy than in this final stand against the encroachments
of European dominion and civilization in North America. General Amherst, sensible of the danger,
sent immediate succours to those two western garrisons, and thus prevented their fall. Captain
Dalzell, after conducting, in July, a strong reinforcement to Detroit, was induced to think
that he could surprise the Indian force encamped about three miles from the fort, and he sat
out at night with 270 men, adopting the most judicious precautions for the secrecy and good
order of his march. But the Indians, apprized of his design, were prepared to defeat it, and
every step from the fort only conducted the English troops further into the jaws of destruction.
Their advance was suddenly arrested by a sharp fire on their front, which was presently followed
by a similar discharge on their rear, and then succeeded by destructive vollies from every
side. In the darkness neither the position nor the numbers of the Indians could be ascertained.
Dalzell was slain early, and his whole detachment was on the brink of irretrievable confusion
and ruin when Captain Grant, the next in command, perceiving that a retreat, now the only resource,
could only be accomplished by a resolute attack, promptly rallied the survivors, who, steadily
obeying his orders, charged the Indians with so much spirit and success as to repulse them
on all sides to some distance. Having thus extricated themselves from immediate peril, the
British hastily regained the shelter of the fort, with the loss of 70 killed and 40 wounded;
and the Indians, unable to reduce the fort by a regular siege, and pausing long enough to ascertain
that the garrison was completely on its guard against stratagem and surprise, broke up their
camp and abandoned the vicinity of Detroit.

The Indians, thus grievously disappointed in their designs on Detroit and Pittsburg, now closely
beleaguered Niagara, which they justly considered as not less important. They hoped to reduce
it by famine, and on the 14th of September, surrounding a convoy of provisions which had nearly
reached its destination, they succeeded in making it their prey by a sudden attack, in which
70 of the British soldiers were slain. Shortly after, as a schooner was crossing Lake Erie
with supplies for Detroit, she was attacked by a numerous fleet of canoes, in which were nearly
400 Indians. But this attempt was less successful, and, after a warm engagement, the Indian
flotilla was repulsed with considerable loss, as, in a conflict with an armed vessel, they
were exposed to the same disadvantages which attended their operations against fortified places.
Niagara having at length been powerfully reinforced and well supplied, the Indians abandoned
all hope of reducing it, and thenceforth confined themselves to their wonted predatory hostility.
In the spring and summer of the following year, the British troops attacked them with such
vigour and success, that they were compelled to propose, in Indian phrase, to bury the hatchet;
and in September a treaty of peace was concluded, the conditions of which were dictated by
the English.[78]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 61: The captain of the spies was killed and scalped on the march. "Thus fell the
brave, generous, and patriotic McCulloch, captain of the spies,"--and in a foot note a few
pages before--"Captain McCulloch, of the spies, scalped an Indian, whom he killed in the engagement,"
in Upper Canada! We quote from Brown's-American History, so it appears that at least one patriotic
American could scalp as well as the Indians!]

[Footnote 62: Christie's Memoirs.]

[Footnote 63: Christie's Memoirs.]

[Footnote 64: The American historian, Brown, observes: "In the meanwhile, Michilimakinack surrendered
to the British without resistance. The indefatigable Brock, with a reinforcement of 400 regulars,
arrived at Maiden; and several Indian tribes, before hesitating in the choice of sides, began
to take their ground and array themselves under the British standard." Vol. i, page 64.--100
regulars!]

[Footnote 65: Now Colonel Glegg, of Thursteston Hall, Cheshire.]

[Footnote 66: His age was then about forty.]

[Footnote 67: The American historian, Thomson, in his "Sketches of the War," says that General
Hull surrendered "to a body of troops inferior in quality as well as number!" and he adds:
"When General Brock said that the force at his disposal authorized him to require the surrender,
he must have had a very exalted opinion of the prowess of his own soldiers, or a very mistaken
one of those who were commanded by the American general."]

[Footnote 68: Including four brass field pieces, captured with General Burgoyne, at Saratoga,
in 1777, and which were retaken by the Americans, at the battle of the Thames, in October, 1813.]

[Footnote 69: Afterwards named the Detroit.]

[Footnote 70: Appendix A, Section 2, No. 1. Jefferson's Correspondence.]

[Footnote 71: Christie's Memoirs.]

[Footnote 72: Doubtless an error for 1330, the entire British force.]

[Footnote 73: There is a tradition in the editor's family, that one of its members removed
from Guernsey to England early in the seventeenth century, and that a son of his, a clergyman,
settled in the island of Barbadoes, whence he or his family emigrated to the then British provinces
of North America, now the United States.]

[Footnote 74: James' Military Occurrences.]

[Footnote 75: For his revolutionary services, see Appendix A, Section 2, No. 2.]

[Footnote 76: Howison's Upper Canada. London, 1821.]

[Footnote 77: The British garrison was surprised, not being aware of the war, and the Indians
butchered nearly all the whites, in number about 100. An English trader, concealed in the house
of one of the French inhabitants, beheld the massacre from an aperture which afforded him a
view of the area of the fort. He describes it as follows: "I beheld, in shapes the foulest
and most terrible, the ferocious triumphs of barbarian conquerors. The dead were scalped and
mangled; the dying were writhing and shrieking under the insatiated knife and tomahawk, and
from the bodies of some, ripped open, their butchers were drinking the blood scooped up in
the hollows of joined hands, and quaffed amid shouts of rage and victory."]

