After all, if the intention is no more than to wash the skin, I am convinced that simple element
is more effectual than any water impregnated with salt and iron; which, being astringent, will
certainly contract the pores, and leave a kind of crust upon the surface of the body. But I
am now as much afraid of drinking, as of bathing; for, after a long conversation with the Doctor,
about the construction of the pump and the cistern, it is very far from being clear with me,
that the patients in the Pump-room don't swallow the scourings of the bathers. I can't help
suspecting, that there is, or may be, some regurgitation from the bath into the cistern of
the pump. In that case, what a delicate beveridge is every day quaffed by the drinkers; medicated
with the sweat and dirt, and dandriff; and the abominable discharges of various kinds, from
twenty different diseased bodies, parboiling in the kettle below. In order to avoid this filthy
composition, I had recourse to the spring that supplies the private baths on the Abbey-green;
but I at once perceived something extraordinary in the taste and smell; and, upon inquiry,
I find that the Roman baths in this quarter, were found covered by an old burying ground, belonging
to the Abbey; through which, in all probability, the water drains in its passage; so that as
we drink the decoction of living bodies at the Pump-room, we swallow the strainings of rotten
bones and carcasses at the private bath. I vow to God, the very idea turns my stomach! Determined,
as I am, against any farther use of the Bath waters, this consideration would give me little
disturbance, if I could find any thing more pure, or less pernicious, to quench my thirst;
but, although the natural springs of excellent water are seen gushing spontaneous on every
side, from the hills that surround us, the inhabitants, in general, make use of well-water,
so impregnated with nitre, or alum, or some other villainous mineral, that it is equally ungrateful
to the taste, and mischievous to the constitution. It must be owned, indeed, that here, in
Milsham-street, we have a precarious and scanty supply from the hill; which is collected in
an open bason in the Circus, liable to be defiled with dead dogs, cats, rats, and every species
of nastiness, which the rascally populace may throw into it, from mere wantonness and brutality.
Well, there is no nation that drinks so hoggishly as the English.

What passes for wine among us, is not the juice of the grape. It is an adulterous mixture,
brewed up of nauseous ingredients, by dunces, who are bunglers in the art of poison-making;
and yet we, and our forefathers, are and have been poisoned by this cursed drench, without
taste or flavour -- The only genuine and wholesome beveridge in England, is London porter,
and Dorchester table-beer; but as for your ale and your gin, your cyder and your perry, and
all the trashy family of made wines, I detest them as infernal compositions, contrived for
the destruction of the human species -- But what have I to do with the human species? except
a very few friends, I care not if the whole was --.

Heark ye, Lewis, my misanthropy increases every day -- The longer I live, I find the folly
and the fraud of mankind grow more and more intolerable -- I wish I had not come from Brambletonhall;
after having lived in solitude so long, I cannot bear the hurry and impertinence of the multitude;
besides, every thing is sophisticated in these crowded places. Snares are laid for our lives
in every thing we cat or drink: the very air we breathe, is loaded with contagion. We cannot
even sleep, without risque of infection. I say, infection -- This place is the rendezvous of
the diseased -- You won't deny, that many diseases are infectious; even the consumption itself,
is highly infectious. When a person dies of it in Italy, the bed and bedding are destroyed;
the other furniture is exposed to the weather and the apartment white-washed, before it is
occupied by any other living soul. You'll allow, that nothing receives infection sooner, or
retains it longer, than blankets, feather-beds, and matrasses -- 'Sdeath! how do I know what
miserable objects have been stewing in the bed where I now lie! -- I wonder, Dick, you did
not put me in mind of sending for my own matrasses -- But, if I had not been an ass, I should
not have needed a remembrancer -- There is always some plaguy reflection that rises up in judgment
against me, and ruffles my spirits -- Therefore, let us change the subject.

I have other reasons for abridging my stay at Bath -- You know sister Tabby's complexion --
If Mrs Tabitha Bramble had been of any other race, I should certainly have considered her as
the most --. But, the truth is, she has found means to interest my affection; or, rather, she
is beholden to the force of prejudice, commonly called the ties of blood. Well, this amiable
maiden has actually commenced a flirting correspondence with an Irish baronet of sixty-five.
His name is Sir Ulic Mackilligut. He is said to be much out at elbows; and, I believe, has
received false intelligence with respect to her fortune. Be that as it may, the connexion is
exceedingly ridiculous, and begins already to excite whispers. For my part, I have no intention
to dispute her free-agency; though I shall fall upon some expedient to undeceive her paramour,
as to the point which he has principally in view. But I don't think her conduct is a proper
example for Liddy, who has also attracted the notice of some coxcombs in the Rooms; and Jery
tells me, he suspects a strapping fellow, the knight's nephew, of some design upon the girl's
heart. I shall, therefore, keep a strict eye over her aunt and her, and even shift the scene,
if I find the matter grow more serious -- You perceive what an agreeable task it must be, to
a man of my kidney, to have the cure of such souls as these. -- But, hold, You shall not have
another peevish word (till the next occasion) from

Yours, MATT. BRAMBLE BATH, April 28.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, of Jesus college, Oxon.

DEAR KNIGHT,

I think those people are unreasonable, who complain that Bath is a contracted circle, in which
the same dull scenes perpetually revolve, without variation -- I am, on the contrary, amazed
to find so small a place so crowded with entertainment and variety. London itself can hardly
exhibit one species of diversion, to which we have not something analogous at Bath, over and
above those singular advantages that are peculiar to the place. Here, for example, a man has
daily opportunities of seeing the most remarkable characters of the community. He sees them
in their natural attitudes and true colours; descended from their pedestals, and divested of
their formal draperies, undisguised by art and affectation -- Here we have ministers of state,
judges, generals, bishops, projectors, philosophers, wits, poets, players, chemists, fiddlers,
and buffoons. If he makes any considerable stay in the place, he is sure of meeting with some
particular friend, whom he did not expect to see; and to me there is nothing more agreeable
than such casual reencounters. Another entertainment, peculiar to Bath, arises from the general
mixture of all degrees assembled in our public rooms, without distinction of rank or fortune.
This is what my uncle reprobates, as a monstrous jumble of heterogeneous principles; a vile
mob of noise and impertinence, without decency or subordination. But this chaos is to me a
source of infinite amusement.

I was extremely diverted last ball-night to see the Master of the Ceremonies leading, with
great solemnity, to the upper end of the room, an antiquated Abigail, dressed in her lady's
cast-clothes; whom he (I suppose) mistook for some countess just arrived at the Bath. The ball
was opened by a Scotch lord, with a mulatto heiress from St Christopher's; and the gay colonel
Tinsel danced all the evening with the daughter of an eminent tinman from the borough of Southwark.
Yesterday morning, at the Pump-room, I saw a broken-winded Wapping landlady squeeze through
a circle of peers, to salute her brandy-merchant, who stood by the window, propped upon crutches;
and a paralytic attorney of Shoe-lane, in shuffling up to the bar, kicked the shins of the
chancellor of England, while his lordship, in a cut bob, drank a glass of water at the pump.
I cannot account for my being pleased with these incidents, any other way, than by saying they
are truly ridiculous in their own nature, and serve to heighten the humour in the farce of
life, which I am determined to enjoy as long as I can.

Those follies, that move my uncle's spleen, excite my laughter. He is as tender as a man without
a skin; who cannot bear the slightest touch without flinching. What tickles another would give
him torment; and yet he has what we may call lucid intervals, when he is remarkably facetious
-- Indeed, I never knew a hypochondriac so apt to be infected with good-humour. He is the most
risible misanthrope I ever met with. A lucky joke, or any ludicrous incident, will set him
a-laughing immoderately, even in one of his most gloomy paroxysms; and, when the laugh is over,
he will curse his own imbecility. In conversing with strangers, he betrays no marks of disquiet
-- He is splenetic with his familiars only; and not even with them, while they keep his attention
employed; but when his spirits are not exerted externally, they seem to recoil and prey upon
himself -- He has renounced the waters with execration; but he begins to find a more efficacious,
and, certainly, a much more palatable remedy in the pleasures of society. He has discovered
some old friends, among the invalids of Bath; and, in particular, renewed his acquaintance
with the celebrated James Quin, who certainly did not come here to drink water. You cannot
doubt, but that I had the strongest curiosity to know this original; and it was gratified by
Mr Bramble, who has had him twice at our house to dinner.

So far as I am able to judge, Quin's character is rather more respectable than it has been
generally represented. His bon mots are in every witling's mouth; but many of them have a rank
flavour, which one would be apt to think was derived from a natural grossness of idea. I suspect,
however, that justice has not been done the author, by the collectors of those Quiniana; who
have let the best of them slip through their fingers, and only retained such as were suited
to the taste and organs of the multitude. How far he may relax in his hours of jollity, I cannot
pretend to say; but his general conversation is conducted by the nicest rules of Propriety;
and Mr James Quin is, certainly, one of the best bred men in the kingdom. He is not only a
most agreeable companion but (as I am credibly informed) a very honest man; highly susceptible
of friendship, warm, steady, and even generous in his attachments, disdaining flattery, and
incapable of meanness and dissimulation. Were I to judge, however, from Quin's eye alone, I
should take him to be proud, insolent, and cruel. There is something remarkably severe and
forbidding in his aspect; and, I have been told, he was ever disposed to insult his inferiors
and dependants. -- Perhaps that report has influenced my opinion of his looks -- You know we
are the fools of prejudice. Howsoever that may be, I have as yet seen nothing but his favourable
side, and my uncle, who frequently confers with him, in a corner, declares he is one of the
most sensible men he ever knew -- He seems to have a reciprocal regard for old Squaretoes,
whom he calls by the familiar name of Matthew, and often reminds of their old tavern-adventures:
on the other hand, Matthew's eyes sparkle whenever Quin makes his appearance -- Let him be
never so jarring and discordant, Quin puts him in tune; and, like treble and bass in the same
concert, they make excellent music together --. T'other day, the conversation turning upon
Shakespeare, I could not help saying, with some emotion, that I would give an hundred guineas
to see Mr Quin act the part of Falstaff; upon which, turning to me with a smile, 'And I would
give a thousand, young gentleman (said he) that I could gratify your longing.' My uncle and
he are perfectly agreed in their estimate of life; which Quin says, would stink in his nostrils,
if he did not steep it in claret.

I want to see this phenomenon in his cups; and have almost prevailed upon uncle to give him
a small turtle at the Bear. In the mean time, I must entertain you with an incident, that seems
to confirm the judgment of those two cynic philosophers. I took the liberty to differ in opinion
from Mr Bramble, when he observed, that the mixture of people in the entertainments of this
place was destructive of all order and urbanity; that it rendered the plebeians insufferably
arrogant and troublesome, and vulgarized the deportment and sentiments of those who moved in
the upper spheres of life. He said such a preposterous coalition would bring us into contempt
with all our neighbours; and was worse, in fact, than debasing the gold coin of the nation.
I argued, on the contrary, that those plebeians who discovered such eagerness to imitate the
dress and equipage of their superiors, would likewise, in time, adopt their maxims and their
manners, be polished by their conversation, and refined by their example; but when I appealed
to Mr Quin, and asked if he did not think that such an unreserved mixture would improve the
whole mass? 'Yes (said he) as a plate of marmalade would improve a pan of sirreverence.'

I owned I was not much conversant in high-life, but I had seen what were called polite assemblies
in London and elsewhere; that those of Bath seemed to be as decent as any; and that, upon the
whole, the individuals that composed it, would not be found deficient in good manners and decorum.
'But let us have recourse to experience (said I) -- Jack Holder, who was intended for a parson,
has succeeded to an estate of two thousand a year, by the death of his elder brother. He is
now at the Bath, driving about in a phaeton and four, with French horns. He has treated with
turtle and claret at all the taverns in Bath and Bristol, till his guests are gorged with good
chear: he has bought a dozen suits of fine clothes, by the advice of the Master of the Ceremonies,
under whose tuition he has entered himself. He has lost hundreds at billiards to sharpers,
and taken one of the nymphs of Avon-street into keeping; but, finding all these channels insufficient
to drain him of his current cash, his counsellor has engaged him to give a general tea-drinking
to-morrow at Wiltshire's room. In order to give it the more eclat, every table is to be furnished
with sweet-meats and nosegays; which, however, are not to be touched till notice is given by
the ringing of a bell, and then the ladies may help themselves without restriction. This will
be no bad way of trying the company's breeding.'

'I will abide by that experiment (cried my uncle) and if I could find a place to stand secure,
without the vortex of the tumult, which I know will ensue, I would certainly go thither and
enjoy the scene.' Quin proposed that we should take our station in the music-gallery, and we
took his advice. Holder had got thither before us, with his horns perdue, but we were admitted.
The tea-drinking passed as usual, and the company having risen from the tables, were sauntering
in groupes, in expectation of the signal for attack, when the bell beginning to ring, they
flew with eagerness to the dessert, and the whole place was instantly in commotion. There was
nothing but justling, scrambling, pulling, snatching, struggling, scolding, and screaming.
The nosegays were torn from one another's hands and bosoms; the glasses and china went to wreck;
the tables and floors were strewed with comfits. Some cried; some swore; and the tropes and
figures of Billingsgate were used without reserve in all their native zest and flavour; nor
were those flowers of rhetoric unattended with significant gesticulation. Some snapped their
fingers; some forked them out; some clapped their hands, and some their back-sides; at length,
they fairly proceeded to pulling caps, and every thing seemed to presage a general battle;
when Holder ordered his horns to sound a charge, with a view to animate the combatants, and
inflame the contest; but this manoeuvre produced an effect quite contrary to what he expected.
It was a note of reproach that roused them to an immediate sense of their disgraceful situation.
They were ashamed of their absurd deportment, and suddenly desisted. They gathered up their
caps, ruffles, and handkerchiefs; and great part of them retired in silent mortification.

Quin laughed at this adventure; but my uncle's delicacy was hurt. He hung his head in manifest
chagrin, and seemed to repine at the triumph of his judgment -- Indeed, his victory was more
complete than he imagined; for, as we afterwards learned, the two amazons who singularized
themselves most in the action, did not come from the purlieus of Puddle-dock, but from the
courtly neighbourhood of St James's palace. One was a baroness, and the other, a wealthy knight's
dowager -- My uncle spoke not a word, till we had made our retreat good to the coffee-house;
where, taking off his hat and wiping his forehead, 'I bless God (said he) that Mrs Tabitha
Bramble did not take the field today!' 'I would pit her for a cool hundred (cried Quin) against
the best shake-bag of the whole main.' The truth is, nothing could have kept her at home but
the accident of her having taken physic before she knew the nature of the entertainment. She
has been for some days furbishing up an old suit of black velvet, to make her appearance as
Sir Ulic's partner at the next ball.

