But Harry Blount had no wish to be silent. If the wound, in prudence, required rest, the correspondent
of the Daily Telegraph was not a man to indulge himself.

"M. Jolivet," he asked, "do you think that our last dispatches have been able to pass the Russian
frontier?"

"Why not?" answered Alcide. "By this time you may be sure that my beloved cousin knows all
about the affair at Kolyvan."

"How many copies does your cousin work off of her dispatches?" asked Blount, for the first
time putting his question direct to his companion.

"Well," answered Alcide, laughing, "my cousin is a very discreet person, who does not like
to be talked about, and who would be in despair if she troubled the sleep of which you are
in need."

"I don't wish to sleep," replied the Englishman. "What will your cousin think of the affairs
of Russia?"

"That they seem for the time in a bad way. But, bah! the Muscovite government is powerful;
it cannot be really uneasy at an invasion of barbarians."

"Too much ambition has lost the greatest empires," answered Blount, who was not exempt from
a certain English jealousy with regard to Russian pretensions in Central Asia.

"Oh, do not let us talk politics," cried Jolivet. "It is forbidden by the faculty. Nothing
can be worse for wounds in the shoulder--unless it was to put you to sleep."

"Let us, then, talk of what we ought to do," replied Blount. "M. Jolivet, I have no intention
at all of remaining a prisoner to these Tartars for an indefinite time."

"Nor I, either, by Jove!"

"We will escape on the first opportunity?"

"Yes, if there is no other way of regaining our liberty."

"Do you know of any other?" asked Blount, looking at his companion.

"Certainly. We are not belligerents; we are neutral, and we will claim our freedom."

"From that brute of a Feofar-Khan?"

"No; he would not understand," answered Jolivet; "but from his lieutenant, Ivan Ogareff."

"He is a villain."

"No doubt; but the villain is a Russian. He knows that it does not do to trifle with the rights
of men, and he has no interest to retain us; on the contrary. But to ask a favor of that gentleman
does not quite suit my taste."

"But that gentleman is not in the camp, or at least I have not seen him here," observed Blount.

"He will come. He will not fail to do that. He must join the Emir. Siberia is cut in two now,
and very certainly Feofar's army is only waiting for him to advance on Irkutsk."

"And once free, what shall we do?"

"Once free, we will continue our campaign, and follow the Tartars, until the time comes when
we can make our way into the Russian camp. We must not give up the game. No, indeed; we have
only just begun. You, friend, have already had the honor of being wounded in the service of
the Daily Telegraph, whilst I--I have as yet suffered nothing in my cousin's service. Well,
well! Good," murmured Alcide Jolivet; "there he is asleep. A few hours' sleep and a few cold
water compresses are all that are required to set an Englishman on his legs again. These fellows
are made of cast iron."

And whilst Harry Blount rested, Alcide watched near him, after having drawn out his note book,
which he loaded with notes, determined besides to share them with his companion, for the greater
satisfaction of the readers of the Daily Telegraph. Events had united them one with the other.
They were no longer jealous of each other. Such a one must be an ass, and good for nothing, or is it's
not even possible to have it so happened it was like to be treated. This he hit the From breathing.
He meant, even if he come not as fast and loose all the time that he now up here have passed,
would have driven, so could not even the physical shame and disgrace , And justify it? If he had
not always been a bit of trouble? He at least knew it that he had worked occasionally with love
and joy and with all his powers, if the forces are not always, he must admit that it is compliant,
just requirements would can. Whether one as it happened, the attempts to be efficient and honest
with and , Treat Me?

He cried.

Mrs. Tobler said coldly: "My husband is sick, as you know, and a failure will not make just be
welcome. But if you like, and if you believe it to us up here now suddenly no longer able to
endure, so you just go up to him and say him what you have on your heart. I think you will be befitting
to you and your conduct, short and concise will know.

"

The assistant remained seated. Then he got up and said. "I am going quickly to the Post"

"So you do not want to go up to my husband?"

No, Mr. Tobler was sick, "said Joseph, we must not disturb him. He did, however now nor the
inclination to take a walk.

Outside, it received a clear, cold world. Something high and curved from one world. It was become cold.
The feet were banging on rocks and ice chunks. An icy wind blew through the trees. Shone through
the branches of the same stars. His heart was full, he went like
possessed.

No, he did not go away. He was afraid, Mrs. Tobler would become their Man divulge everything go.
Following this idea, he accelerated and drove his steps.

His salary he had received and paid also still not final. Item. The main thing was: stay in the house.
"How rude to have me so deplored," he cried in the winter night out. He decided to kiss Mrs. Tobler
knees to his hands.

They sat in the living room when he entered it again.

He started in the door, which he did Carefully zuschloß to talk about:

"I'll
have to say, Mrs. Tobler, as well that you are still sitting here
that I fully in the wrong feel, therefore, that I have made against
my chief complaints.

I am too hasty been, and I ask that you forgive me. I have behaved foolishly, and Mr Tobler,
in the excitement he threw the unfortunate letter lawyer. Have you been at your Man? Did you
tell him to? "

"No, I have not said anything to him," replied the woman.

"I'm glad," said the assistant, and he sat down.

He continued: "And I come here to come jump in light of the fear that it would have been him
to have said. It everything I'm sorry for what I said. They say the storm of feelings, ma'am,
so very some things should not be expressed. I am so glad that you said anything yet. "

This was talked sensible, "said Mrs. Tobler.

"I have decided to plunge your feet and knees do apologize," stammered the assistant.

So be not needed anything, ugh, she said.

They were silent for a while. It was so beautiful to the employee in the room. That was something that
was like a home. And how often was in earlier times by the moving and deserted Streets have gone
with the cold and evil and throwing down leaving feeling in my heart.

He was so old in his youth.

As it was conscious, never at home be crippling, and can choke inside. How nice it was to belong to
someone, into hatred or in impatience, discontent, or in devotion,
in love or sadness.

This magic man in such homes, as was Joseph have always felt charmed sad when he made any window
left open to themselves, the lonely and tossed and Homeless down reflect, looked to the standing down
on the cold street. As fragrant Easter, Christmas or Pentecost or the New Year to those windows
out, and how poor expected at the thought of this ancient and beautiful golden only the barren,
hardly be sensed mitgenießen reflection to be allowed. This beautiful prerogative of the bourgeoisie.
This quality in the Faces. This peaceful weaving and let live! He said:

"It's so stupid to believe the same is so offended."

He was right when he said that meant the woman, as she went quiet in a sub-jackets for Dora to knit
or crochet. She added:

"And I have to, his wife, not even tolerate all kinds endured by him and? He is now just once
the master of the house, and that is a responsible position, and the rest of the residents and
challenge members toleration and respect. Of course he should not offend, but can he always kept
in check? Can he tell his anger is reasonable? The rage and Irritability are just not reasonable.
And the rest of us who have the obvious advantage his orders, the draft plan and work hard if he
might obey his nod, their wisdom, we see almost always be followed, we do it in times of unrest
and The insurgents understand just a little out of the way to go. We should have learned to treat
him as a lord and master will also in a certain way be treated. We should be clever and charming
in moments when he's calm and security forces not more, as usual, is aware of where we him incapable
of still, as before, to dominate, see. And if we are plump, and, according to our conditions
expected, full of mistakes have been, we must not be overly offended if his Voice and the incredible
amount of his worries and distress andonnern us. Marti! Believe me, I am often full of anger
was the same man who today has wronged you, you should offended, and in the most degrading
manner is said to have offended. Well, we just set ourselves the dignity and forgive a little
down, because - you have to his master, and superiors .

                   Forgive What would become of enterprises, from households, shops
of all kinds, from homes so, what should the world itself, if the
laws henceforth not all at once likely to have a tweak and push a
little and hurt?

Did you all year long so the blessing of obedience and imitation enjoyed that one will occur one
day or evening was allowed and was allowed to throw in the proud chest and was allowed to say:
do not insult me? No, the Offended If one is yes but not there, but not to anger-reason-giving.
When confusion can not help it that they were stupid acts, it is not the anger as quickly for
her snorting and raging to blame. And there is always the question of where you are and who you
are. I am so pleased with you, Joseph. Give me the Hand. You can talk to you, and we go to
bed now. "

* * * * *

Christmas approached.

Tobler also had to come into the house the festive period so, the hard time that was something
inescapable, that was something-like flight, that was a thought that is all People told that
penetrated all the feelings, why would he, this idea to the Villa are to make a detour around evening
star? How this was possible? If a House before, and in addition so beautiful, so striking as
the Toblersche, was standing in the world, there was indeed no rational
or natural causes, why it from anything that in this world of bestund
view and scent, should have been spared.

And then also the question: would like Tobler's like to be spared?

No, they were looking forward to it. Tobler said if it'm bad with him, my but he, therefore,
need not even Christmas without celebrating, and pull over at his house. Such a thing would have him
still missing.

The surrounding area itself seemed even in their own way to the nice hard look at. She had
become covered with thick down comfortably and quietly falling snow, holding so still were, the big,
wide, old and large hand is to record what fell down as hard-working, that almost all people
said, "Look! It will know it weißelt in the world. That's right, because it is becoming to Christmas.
"

Soon the whole lake and mountain country lay in a thick, solid snow veil. The rapidly something
fancy heads have already heard the ringing of meaning rapidly moving carriages, even though
none were sailing. The Christmas tables were already covered, because the whole country was
like a neat white-coated Christmas table.

And the silence and lowness and heat of such a landscape! You could hear all the sounds only half
as if their Schlosser Hammers, and the carpenters their beams, and the factory wheels their shovels,
and the locomotives would have wrapped up their shrill whistles with cotton or woolen blankets.
We saw only the next thing, what could be measured with ten steps, the distance was an impenetrable
Geschneie and a busy painting over with gray and white. The people were therefore knows mashed, and you
could see under-five people are one of the snow shook off the clothes. It was a peace there,
things that one can not help everybody as satisfied and had to take care and soothes.

And there must now go Tobler, by such a winter wonderland through,
by rail to the city to a dialogue with the attorney Bintsch to hold.

But in his Page was at least his wife, who were riding, a few gift items in the main urban department
store shopping for the impending feast.

In the evening there was again a train station scene, but this time a snowy and therefore a little
merrier. Pauline's laughter and joyful barking threw Leo in the snow darker tone stains although
usually a laugh and a habit of barking bright color, but what happened against the sparkling
white snow of brightness and shimmer to? They took back packets received, and a lady in furs
had got out and looked like the true, rich and gracious wife Christmas himself, and yet it
was only Mrs. Tobler, the wife of a businessman, and, moreover, a ruined. But she smiled, and
such a smile can from the poor and oppressed Woman to make a half princess, because a smile always
reminded of something respectable and high Respectability.

The snow lay there until the actual day, clean and tight, because
there were cold nights, the white ceiling made freeze grinding.

Joseph went to on Christmas morning the famous mountain. The small paths meandered through the
shimmering light yellow white meadows, the branches of a thousand trees were überglitzert with frost:
a sweet to play! The hours of farmhouses as in this fine, white, branched superb, such as jewelry
or Decorative houses, built for sight and for the innocent understanding of a child. The whole
neighborhood seemed to expect a high princess as pretty and clean dressed saw them out. She seemed
to be a girl, a shy and a bit sickly, a infinitely delicate predisposed. Joseph walked up higher,
and there stood out at once the gray veil, which occupied the lower ground, fraying on, pierced
by the most ardent Blue sky and a sun so warm as in summer, made the stroller at an idle tale . Believe
Hohe Tannen stood there, loaded in a proud, powerful stance, with snow in the the sun melted
and fell from the large branches.

When Joseph came to the night already begun home burned, even in guest rooms, a Corner room, we
walked almost never, the Christmas tree. Tobler woman led the children to the same in and showed
them the presents. Pauline also was gifted, and Joseph was given
a Box of cigars under the observation that although the little but
it was from the heart.

Tobler was trying to give the set a comfortable, wirtshäuselnden paint, he smoked the usual Pipe,
and blinked his eyes with the Christmas tree, around the lovely beamed. Mrs. Tobler smiled
and said a few decorous words, for example, how beautiful yet so a tree was. But she did not quite
come out the mouth. In general all faltered a bit, and there is no particular joy spread devotion
to the few people standing there, but it is put to all melancholy. Also, it was cold in the
guest room and find Christmas cheer ought to prevail, not because it could be cold. It was therefore
always to the living room over, to get there to get a little heat, and then came back to the
tree.

Each Christmas tree is beautiful and each has forced emotion. Even the Toblersche was beautiful,
just the people standing around him, could no longer soar, and deep emotion and joy.

"Because you had to have been here last year, those were the Christmas! Come on. Drink a glass
of wine, "Tobler said to the assistants and led him to the living room connect the heat. The latter
made an unhappy face, as if the cigars because was upset that he himself did not know exactly.
One is holding this year, said with a sigh the woman, not in the mood for something. It proposed tentatively,
one more to make "Jasso". Have you done it all year long, so they could once on Christmas
Eve access to the cards, then maybe it would a little funny in the room. Sun was one to the playing
cards refuge.

The tree was now shine and become lichterlos. The children were allowed half an Hours dealing
with the presents, after which they were sent to bed. After and after the air in the living
room Christmas verwirtshäuselte entirely. The laughter and behavior of three lonely people who
drank wine because, partly smoked cigars, ate some candy each other and playing cards, lost all
shyness and special peculiarity which still had about Hard to remember a hint. It was the
usual manner and the allerunfeierlichste Laugh. The mood, which is now dominated these players,
but was not even the familiar, cozy, because - but it was just Christmas,
and the finer and more beautiful thought that here and there flash
did warned, flitting over the sin, the party and the contents thereof
in such a way as happened to have spoiled and canceled.

Yes, alone, these three people, the loneliest of the assistant, because he felt that he, as one flown
down a house member was a member, stopped the slow, to be such; because
he is not allowed to say as Mr Tobler, he had the right to do in this
house and to prevent or circumvent what he pleased, because it was
not his own, because he had want to celebrate Christmas and have since
it is but even in such a house, and in such a middle class family
was, because he had the faith in recent years, he lacked much of having
to miss such things and the bad temper because he of all three Card
players was great and this must have felt as an injustice.

"Is this now holy evening," he thought.

The woman said, among other things once, but it was not quite right, Christmas cards to play.
With them at home there would have been nothing like this ever. It was still really no way you
because today wirtshäusele night again.

This offset in Unlaune, Tobler said: "We just heard on"!

He threw the cards on the table and exclaimed:

"Yes, it is not right, then something to do on Christmas Eve. But what kind of a circle, we
here? What are we?

We can sweep the wind out of the house tomorrow. Yes, where money is there is pleasure, parties,
and, moreover, sacred to celebrate.

                   Where wealth is where happiness, success and general, domestic joy.

Those who have three or more months through unnatural must toil to the success of the business
life, success, and will then all of a sudden Celebrate gay? Is such a thing possible? Am I
right or not, Marti? He? "

"Not quite, Mr. Tobler," said the assistant.

There was a long-lasting silence that lasted longer, no one dared
to interrupt.

Tobler wanted something from the advertising Clock, the woman something of Dora, Joseph and
some of Christmas say, but all expressed their thoughts. It was as if his mouth was all sewn
up would be. Suddenly shouted Tobler:

"So doing it on your bills and say something soon. This is too boring, there goes one yes wiser
to the inn. "

I'm going to bed, "said Joseph and said goodbye. The others were soon to above, and that was Christmas.

*
* * * *

The New Year's week was strangely quiet and sentimental, the shops were down, it was little
to do but to a strange man, the inventor of an engine, in Office from time to time to receive.
This semi-rural, semi-cosmopolitan-inspired Owl visited this week
the House Tobler almost daily by the chief drive of the same, he wants
to work for the genius, whose designs he had left lying in the office,
be active.

They laughed about the man, whose cause could not be taken seriously, but Tobler once said over
lunch so "but do not laugh: to the rest. The man is not stupid. "

The enthusiasm with which the turbine Creator championed the child of his mind and lifted in almost
sky-high importance, was much talking and not provided in a bad way for entertainment in the
quiet and sluggish previous week. The strange man had no precise and elegant form, he said
the one hand as a young dreamer and Bauer, and unlike some we could have him as a swindler or
fair stall holders, because one day he struck Mr Tobler public and under paid admission be visited
before display of the Selbstkrafterzeugmaschine in towns and cities, in places where quite
a lot of people to care romp over which idea is not enough thought to have to laugh.

As should now Tobler once again an apparently very talented people on their feet To help so
that the same is not in a locksmith workshop contracts to workers as mentally to wane and needed,
but he, Tobler, himself, how was it for him, and where were the hülfsbereiten
people who helped him then?

"All come to him," said Mrs. Tobler, "all they think of him when looking for a willing, all they
have desire to exploit him and his gregarious nature, and he helps
everyone.

So is he. "

The assistant made this week shorter and more walks in the cold but beautiful Winter landscape
areas and pictures inside.

Since there were cars furrows on the road on the feet struck.

Since there were stiff frozen meadows, which started at the mountain, and cold, red hands that
you held before his mouth to hineinzublasen. Dickbemäntelte people treated him, surprised him and
nights in an unfamiliar area. Or was there an ice rink on a what has been formerly grand park
pond, moving and falling over people of all ages and of both sexes out with the sounds, such
prizes to the skating rinks to paint and maintain. And then he suddenly stood before Tobler's
house, looked from the bottom up to him and saw how the cold moon is enchanted, while the half-dark
Night clouds around it were flying, large, mournful, but lovely women similar to it seems to
pull up, so that it does dissolve in a beautiful way.

At home, everything was so strangely silent, not even the Silvi more could be heard. The Virtues and
vices of the house Tobler seemed to be content on both sides and brotherhood have silently. sat in the living
room as the woman in the rocking chair, worked something or read something, or they Dora was on her
lap and did nothing.

"Like me in the summer outside in the garden have gereitschaukelt, Marti," she once said. They
long for the garden, she did not know how. As the already seems so
long ago. Joseph Now half a year is here, and it was there when he
was already so much more around them. How they take so much into such
a feeling come.

She looked at the lamp. The look, which she did seemed
to sigh. She said:

"You, Marti, have it actually quite good, much
better than my husband and I, but me I will not talk at all. You can
go away from here, you simply pack up your few things sit in the train
and travel to wherever you want. You will find anywhere position because
you are young, and it is believed, when you see before you, you were
working, and you are there, too. You have with anyone in the world,
with no one's individuality and needs, expected, it attracts no one
off, hinauszuschweifen into the distance and the uncertainty. This
is perhaps often bitter, but how beautiful and how free it can be.
If it suits you, and if you do the few small, do not allow very much
enjoy in power relations, then march You, and if you believe to be
allowed to have a rest at some fixed point and place back from, and
who wanted, and what you wanted and could prevent it? They may sometimes
unfortunate, but who is not, sometimes desperate, but whose soul spare
the trouble? To nothing permanent you are bound to nothing and nothing
too caught retardant Loving handcuffed and chained. You must sometimes
outrageous running bio and air springer severally felt be that you
see so full of motion may permit. And healthy you are too, and your
heart may already sitting in the right place, I can imagine, but you
themselves often have behaved so timid. Maybe I'm ungrateful. It was an instinctive sympathy for that part of her misery which
Marfa did not show which first drew Nadia towards her. This way of bearing her sorrow went
to the proud heart of the young girl. She did not offer her services; she gave them. Marfa
had neither to refuse nor accept them. In the difficult parts of the journey, the girl was
there to support her. When the provisions were given out, the old woman would not have moved,
but Nadia shared her small portion with her; and thus this painful journey was performed. Thanks
to her companion, Marfa was able to follow the soldiers who guarded the prisoners without being
fastened to a saddle-bow, as were many other unfortunate wretches, and thus dragged along this
road of sorrow.

"May God reward you, my daughter, for what you have done for my old age!" said Marfa Strogoff
once, and for some time these were the only words exchanged between the two unfortunate beings.

During these few days, which to them appeared like centuries, it would seem that the old woman
and the girl would have been led to speak of their situation. But Marfa Strogoff, from a caution
which may be easily understood, never spoke about herself except with the greatest brevity. To what degree these operations by Democritus * so * superscript * * Harpedonapten or cable clamps
were concerned, Cantor has * * (39), most ingenious way to light tried, and it also seems likely
to us that the ancient Egyptians construct the right angle, and the cases of the normal to the field,
the fact served to one angle in one, the side lengths three, four and five triangles possessing,
a right must be angle. Yes but this rate had since time immemorial and the Chinese be known, as
we it in with them so famous writing Chiu-pi find that several G. centuries BC were on the
Kaiser Chiu-kung * * So in the year 1100 BC G. is about returned. (40) others were able to direct
measurement tests on diagonal lines in the proportional Maas rods to both the above and still
other rectangular Three corners have led to rational side lengths, and seems to us the possibility
ruled that the famous and infamous sentence of Pythagoras * * over the squares of the Hypotenuse
and the hypotenuse of a thorough investigation of such proportional Maas bars is sprung.

When we say on the one hand, that the ancient Egyptians, not only the area of ​​the circle,
of the square, the rectangle, the rectangular and the oblique triangle,
and using decompositions of the surfaces of arbitrary polygons to
accurately determine theoretically able were, except for us, such
a forming circle, so must the other, but be admitted that it was content
with practical applications to approximations, which during the times
so degenerated, that the use was wrong, a general rules.

On the left bank of the Nile in the middle between * * Thebes and Aswan * * * Edfu is * that *
old Appollinopolis Magna * with a stately temple from the times of the Ptolemies. The temple, mainly
* dedicated to the god Horus *, is surrounded with a free-standing enclosure, (41) the east side
between the fountain gate and the eastern wing pylon with an inscription
on us eight fields and in one hundred sixty-four Column (42) a deed
of King Ptolemy * XI.

Alexander I. * (with the nickname * * Philometor) announced. The gift, which here * * Horus and the
other gods of Edfu * * is given, consists of a number of mostly square lands, whose four side
lengths specified along with content area appear.

Since each of the occurring surface content is the same as the product of the arithmetic Mean of the
two pairs of opposite side, it was * after * Lepsius the presumption established, the did
the ancient Egyptians to treat squares determination of the area nearly as rectangles looking
to the difference of the opposite sides thereby compensate for that
the arithmetic Medium subjected to the same charge.

For very many of the * in Edfu * deed occurring squares is the difference each of two opposite
sides of either zero or relatively so small that the relevant Four corners of the rectangles may settle
a little different shape, and the results obtained should thus represent
a considerable approximation to the correct surface value, after the
one with regard to the case of * * Sesostris observed division of
the country require in rectangles may, just this or their first coming
was the shape of the fields even then been popular.

 There was no doubt that the young girl's companion was Michael
Strogoff, and that a secret mission in the invaded country obliged him to conceal his quality
of the Czar's courier.

"Ah, my brave boy!" thought Marfa. "No, I will not betray you, and tortures shall not wrest
from me the avowal that it was you whom I saw at Omsk." All the world, not just the state. What the State against the Low German and High German r fu ͤ could
do, he has done by those banished from the Church and the Court excluded.

Any person engaged in this work, they or their ideas of who it attacks o ͤ publicly or defended,
new factors adding or who you ͤ gt, that it gives so many who are the already established
modified rektificirt, which helps, he likes it or not, for he helps one form o ͤ Public opinion.
Illuminates this mindless monster, Hanoverian Platt, Platt and Mecklenburg, as it is called u ͤ
everywhere, from the back or front, the best or the worst side illuminated by it only, and believe
me, every light ͤ u bt a chemical destruction ͤ tion to its volume from. Discuss it, it only
Discuss and be u ͤ convinced, sen each word for good or Bo ͤ is a magic spell that his one foot
of its territory narrowed.

This is the Scholars ͤ ne with good cause, and the o ͤ public opinion and the new time, and if
Once the three are on the move and seek not, they miss each other not.

Yes, I have no doubt that ͤ o Public opinion is formed and they will resent, as I, with the
Low German and the rumble is over the co u ͤ ͤ heads go of our farmers
and will - be contagious.

The infection is the main force of public opinion and o ͤ the most wonderful thing about her.

The
main executors of the legislative power o ͤ public opinion but in our Undoubtedly the case,
school teachers, especially in the countryside. At the level of the share the realization
of the good will of this great, well ͤ useful, secretly acting class
Citi ͤ rgern, whose influence on the formation of the country people
is significantly large ͤ SSSR, when the Pastoral influence comes infinitely
much.

Take this as it belongs to them and to be expected, the cause of civilization with zeal penetrate
to them from the necessity of a continuous Attak on the Low German, they are, as is their
custom, persevere in their study ͤ ck, so I want to see what Vera
ͤ this miraculous change ratios as early as the end of ten years in
a negotiat ͤ of to produce high plate.

Their main task ͤ wa re, meaning to strive, the High German confidential and cordial to make
- a way of mmertheit only by the skill and Unbeku ͤ the tongue passes. Her work is in school,
in families, ne before the communication ͤ. What betrift the school so wu rde ͤ I give the advice
in the early school years, children do not have to write to Read to stop, just to talk. It stands
to why. The elder mu ͤ ßten ha ͤ more often with speech and Denku ͤ environments Bescha ͤ
be ftigt - what an opportunity both to the intellect and to contribute
through this to the Low German language in which the boy from home
from all the fru ͤ are here eingepropft prejudices and stupidities. There was no cultivation, for there was no water;
and it was water that the prisoners, parched by their painful march, most needed. To find a
stream they must have diverged fifty versts eastward, to the very foot of the mountains.

There flows the Tom, a little affluent of the Obi, which passes near Tomsk before losing itself
in one of the great northern arteries. There water would have been abundant, the steppe less
arid, the heat less severe. But the strictest orders had been given to the commanders of the
convoy to reach Tomsk by the shortest way, for the Emir was much afraid of being taken in the
flank and cut off by some Russian column descending from the northern provinces. 

Engaging done by mutual bow. When the dance ended, out of Lord, the lady back to her place,
bows before her, takes a few steps by it still turned towards the face, back and only then
goes back to the society.

About smoking.

Before entering foreign apartments neglect a young man not to take the cigar, rarely a window
sill or other place of storage are missing from the corridors, where he deposited can. Cautious
people cause a cigar with her killer. Only in intimate circles, it is allowed to bring with
the cigar in the room. They avoid at all as much as possible smoke in the company of ladies, at least
you do not miss, first for permission to . Ask It is hardly necessary, the young ladies in front
of a fatal, have come to us from France, but fortunately, not yet naturalized custom to warn
on this occasion. If find the Parisians enjoy doing so, to smoke cigarettes, Turkish and Russian,
so no reason to acceptance by our ladies this bad habit or custom. It makes a very uncomfortable
and repulsive impression on the most part not only of women but also
the men to see a woman smoke.

  

  To each his own!

  

  Command of the Française + +.

The same is danced in columns lineup.

I.
Tour. (+ Pantalon. +)

Bow. BPM. They had to! If I think so - oh, what I have, with a Word, feeling,
Joseph, that you leave us now, soon, soon. No, you say. Share You better not. Some days we will
surely remain so even still together or not? Boats, requisitioned at Zabediero, were brought
up to the Tom and formed a line of obstacles impossible to pass. Or, as they
had spoken about having a brother, or how it could have been there when Wirsich been a sedate,
the world experienced and good-natured old gentleman would. Would have laughed at you, and a serious,
but quiet word would have hingesprochen nice on. But if you Wirsich looked, you had to secretly
angry with the circumstances and fortunes of the world and anger for Wirsich offered no beautiful
sight dar.

Joseph thought of Tobler and his heart beat softly. How he came to the whole half Day of business
and house to stay away, without asking for permission?

He made uncomfortable accusations.

And in between it was almost
his remendy sacred.

Ivan Ogareff left the Emir at Tomsk, where both had arrived the evening before, and returned
to the camp at Zabediero. From here he was to start the next day with the rear-guard of the
Tartar army. Come, Dora, give
Joseph's hand. Come on. .

Yes, "-

She paused a moment and then continued:

"It will certainly go well, I hope and wish for it, and I almost white. Always be a little
humble, not too much, your husband, you will always have to make. But you rush to never let
the first words of ill-will remain unanswered; to a violent first word yes as soon follows a demure,
soft. Get used to because sensitivity to defeat in silence. What
women have to do every day is to the man do not entirely ignore. The
life of the world so subject to the same laws such as domestic life,
only bigger and wider. Just never stormy!.