It was not to be expected that this summary mode of proceeding would much increase the favour
of the parties with the Emperor, but this was the very position to which Count Thurn wished
to bring them.  If, from the fear of uncertain danger, they had permitted themselves such an
act of violence, the certain expectation of punishment, and the now urgent necessity of making
themselves secure, would plunge them still deeper into guilt.  By this brutal act of self-redress,
no room was left for irresolution or repentance, and it seemed as if a single crime could be
absolved only by a series of violences.  As the deed itself could not be undone, nothing was
left but to disarm the hand of punishment.  Thirty directors were appointed to organise a regular
insurrection.  They seized upon all the offices of state, and all the imperial revenues, took
into their own service the royal functionaries and the soldiers, and summoned the whole Bohemian
nation to avenge the common cause.  The Jesuits, whom the common hatred accused as the instigators
of every previous oppression, were banished the kingdom, and this harsh measure the Estates
found it necessary to justify in a formal manifesto.  These various steps were taken for the
preservation of the royal authority and the laws--the language of all rebels till fortune has
decided in their favour.

The emotion which the news of the Bohemian insurrection excited at the imperial court, was
much less lively than such intelligence deserved. The Emperor Matthias was no longer the resolute
spirit that formerly sought out his king and master in the very bosom of his people, and hurled
him from three thrones.  The confidence and courage which had animated him in an usurpation,
deserted him in a legitimate self-defence.  The Bohemian rebels had first taken up arms, and
the nature of circumstances drove him to join them.  But he could not hope to confine such
a war to Bohemia.  In all the territories under his dominion, the Protestants were united by
a dangerous sympathy--the common danger of their religion might suddenly combine them all into
a formidable republic.  What could he oppose to such an enemy, if the Protestant portion of
his subjects deserted him? And would not both parties exhaust themselves in so ruinous a civil
war? How much was at stake if he lost; and if he won, whom else would he destroy but his own
subjects?

Considerations such as these inclined the Emperor and his council to concessions and pacific
measures, but it was in this very spirit of concession that, as others would have it, lay the
origin of the evil. The Archduke Ferdinand of Gratz congratulated the Emperor upon an event,
which would justify in the eyes of all Europe the severest measures against the Bohemian Protestants.
"Disobedience, lawlessness, and insurrection," he said, "went always hand-in-hand with Protestantism.
Every privilege which had been conceded to the Estates by himself and his predecessor, had
had no other effect than to raise their demands. All the measures of the heretics were aimed
against the imperial authority.  Step by step had they advanced from defiance to defiance up
to this last aggression; in a short time they would assail all that remained to be assailed,
in the person of the Emperor.  In arms alone was there any safety against such an enemy--peace
and subordination could be only established upon the ruins of their dangerous privileges; security
for the Catholic belief was to be found only in the total destruction of this sect.  Uncertain,
it was true, might be the event of the war, but inevitable was the ruin if it were pretermitted.
The confiscation of the lands of the rebels would richly indemnify them for its expenses, while
the terror of punishment would teach the other states the wisdom of a prompt obedience in future."
Were the Bohemian Protestants to blame, if they armed themselves in time against the enforcement
of such maxims?  The insurrection in Bohemia, besides, was directed only against the successor
of the Emperor, not against himself, who had done nothing to justify the alarm of the Protestants.
To exclude this prince from the Bohemian throne, arms had before been taken up under Matthias,
though as long as this Emperor lived, his subjects had kept within the bounds of an apparent
submission.

But Bohemia was in arms, and unarmed, the Emperor dared not even offer them peace.  For this
purpose, Spain supplied gold, and promised to send troops from Italy and the Netherlands. 
Count Bucquoi, a native of the Netherlands, was named generalissimo, because no native could
be trusted, and Count Dampierre, another foreigner, commanded under him. Before the army took
the field, the Emperor endeavoured to bring about an amicable arrangement, by the publication
of a manifesto.  In this he assured the Bohemians, "that he held sacred the Letter of Majesty--that
he had not formed any resolutions inimical to their religion or their privileges, and that
his present preparations were forced upon him by their own.  As soon as the nation laid down
their arms, he also would disband his army." But this gracious letter failed of its effect,
because the leaders of the insurrection contrived to hide from the people the Emperor's good
intentions.  Instead of this, they circulated the most alarming reports from the pulpit, and
by pamphlets, and terrified the deluded populace with threatened horrors of another Saint Bartholomew's
that existed only in their own imagination.  All Bohemia, with the exception of three towns,
Budweiss, Krummau, and Pilsen, took part in this insurrection.  These three towns, inhabited
principally by Roman Catholics, alone had the courage, in this general revolt, to hold out
for the Emperor, who promised them assistance.  But it could not escape Count Thurn, how dangerous
it was to leave in hostile hands three places of such importance, which would at all times
keep open for the imperial troops an entrance into the kingdom.  With prompt determination
he appeared before Budweiss and Krummau, in the hope of terrifying them into a surrender. 
Krummau surrendered, but all his attacks were steadfastly repulsed by Budweiss.

And now, too, the Emperor began to show more earnestness and energy. Bucquoi and Dampierre,
with two armies, fell upon the Bohemian territories, which they treated as a hostile country.
But the imperial generals found the march to Prague more difficult than they had expected.
Every pass, every position that was the least tenable, must be opened by the sword, and resistance
increased at each fresh step they took, for the outrages of their troops, chiefly consisting
of Hungarians and Walloons, drove their friends to revolt and their enemies to despair.  But
even now that his troops had penetrated into Bohemia, the Emperor continued to offer the Estates
peace, and to show himself ready for an amicable adjustment.  But the new prospects which opened
upon them, raised the courage of the revolters.  Moravia espoused their party; and from Germany
appeared to them a defender equally intrepid and unexpected, in the person of Count Mansfeld.

The heads of the Evangelic Union had been silent but not inactive spectators of the movements
in Bohemia.  Both were contending for the same cause, and against the same enemy.  In the fate
of the Bohemians, their confederates in the faith might read their own; and the cause of this
people was represented as of solemn concern to the whole German union.  True to these principles,
the Unionists supported the courage of the insurgents by promises of assistance; and a fortunate
accident now enabled them, beyond their hopes, to fulfil them.

The instrument by which the House of Austria was humbled in Germany, was Peter Ernest, Count
Mansfeld, the son of a distinguished Austrian officer, Ernest von Mansfeld, who for some time
had commanded with repute the Spanish army in the Netherlands.  His first campaigns in Juliers
and Alsace had been made in the service of this house, and under the banner of the Archduke
Leopold, against the Protestant religion and the liberties of Germany.  But insensibly won
by the principles of this religion, he abandoned a leader whose selfishness denied him the
reimbursement of the monies expended in his cause, and he transferred his zeal and a victorious
sword to the Evangelic Union.  It happened just then that the Duke of Savoy, an ally of the
Union, demanded assistance in a war against Spain.  They assigned to him their newly acquired
servant, and Mansfeld received instructions to raise an army of 4000 men in Germany, in the
cause and in the pay of the duke.  The army was ready to march at the very moment when the
flames of war burst out in Bohemia, and the duke, who at the time did not stand in need of
its services, placed it at the disposal of the Union.  Nothing could be more welcome to these
troops than the prospect of aiding their confederates in Bohemia, at the cost of a third party.
Mansfeld received orders forthwith to march with these 4000 men into that kingdom; and a pretended
Bohemian commission was given to blind the public as to the true author of this levy.

This Mansfeld now appeared in Bohemia, and, by the occupation of Pilsen, strongly fortified
and favourable to the Emperor, obtained a firm footing in the country.  The courage of the
rebels was farther increased by succours which the Silesian States despatched to their assistance.
Between these and the Imperialists, several battles were fought, far indeed from decisive,
but only on that account the more destructive, which served as the prelude to a more serious
war.  To check the vigour of his military operations, a negotiation was entered into with the
Emperor, and a disposition was shown to accept the proffered mediation of Saxony.  But before
the event could prove how little sincerity there was in these proposals, the Emperor was removed
from the scene by death.

What now had Matthias done to justify the expectations which he had excited by the overthrow
of his predecessor?  Was it worth while to ascend a brother's throne through guilt, and then
maintain it with so little dignity, and leave it with so little renown?  As long as Matthias
sat on the throne, he had to atone for the imprudence by which he had gained it.  To enjoy
the regal dignity a few years sooner, he had shackled the free exercise of its prerogatives.
The slender portion of independence left him by the growing power of the Estates, was still
farther lessened by the encroachments of his relations.  Sickly and childless he saw the attention
of the world turned to an ambitious heir who was impatiently anticipating his fate; and who,
by his interference with the closing administration, was already opening his own.

With Matthias, the reigning line of the German House of Austria was in a manner extinct; for
of all the sons of Maximilian, one only was now alive, the weak and childless Archduke Albert,
in the Netherlands, who had already renounced his claims to the inheritance in favour of the
line of Gratz.  The Spanish House had also, in a secret bond, resigned its pretensions to the
Austrian possessions in behalf of the Archduke Ferdinand of Styria, in whom the branch of Hapsburg
was about to put forth new shoots, and the former greatness of Austria to experience a revival.

