LIFE ON THE MISSISSIPPI

                        BY MARK TWAIN

                           Part 11.

Chapter 51 Reminiscences

WE left for St. Louis in the 'City of Baton Rouge,' on a delightfully hot day, but with the
main purpose of my visit but lamely accomplished. I had hoped to hunt up and talk with a hundred
steamboatmen, but got so pleasantly involved in the social life of the town that I got nothing
more than mere five-minute talks with a couple of dozen of the craft.

I was on the bench of the pilot-house when we backed out and 'straightened up' for the start--the
boat pausing for a 'good ready,' in the old-fashioned way, and the black smoke piling out of
the chimneys equally in the old-fashioned way.  Then we began to gather momentum, and presently
were fairly under way and booming along. It was all as natural and familiar--and so were the
shoreward sights--as if there had been no break in my river life. There is not no inkling of
the points in view was suggested by such words as determinism, talent, genesis, yet strange
to psychologist. City by--
side with the travel a astonishment and very imperfect quality of
criticism. I knew quite well what was going to
happen, because I could date back in my own life and inspect the record.  The captain looked
on, during a silent half-minute, then took the wheel himself, and crowded the boat in, till
she went scraping along within a hand-breadth of the ships.  It was exactly the favor which
he had done me, about a quarter of a century before, in that same spot, the first time I ever
steamed out of the port of New Orleans. It was a very great and sincere pleasure to me to see
the thing repeated--with somebody else as victim.

We made Natchez (three hundred miles) in twenty-two hours and a half-- much the swiftest passage
I have ever made over that piece of water.

The next morning I came on with the four o'clock watch, and saw Ritchie successfully run half
a dozen crossings in a fog, using for his guidance the marked chart devised and patented by
Bixby and himself. This sufficiently evidenced the great value of the chart.

By and by, when the fog began to clear off, I noticed that the reflection of a tree in the
smooth water of an overflowed bank, six hundred yards away, was stronger and blacker than the
ghostly tree itself. The faint spectral trees, dimly glimpsed through the shredding fog, were
very pretty things to see.

We had a heavy thunder-storm at Natchez, another at Vicksburg, and still another about fifty
miles below Memphis.  They had an old-fashioned energy which had long been unfamiliar to me.
This third storm was accompanied by a raging wind.  We tied up to the bank when we saw the
tempest coming, and everybody left the pilot-house but me. The wind bent the young trees down,
exposing the pale underside of the leaves; and gust after gust followed, in quick succession,
thrashing the branches violently up and down, and to this side and that, and creating swift
waves of alternating green and white according to the side of the leaf that was exposed, and
these waves raced after each other as do their kind over a wind-tossed field of oats. No color
that was visible anywhere was quite natural--all tints were charged with a leaden tinge from
the solid cloud-bank overhead. The river was leaden; all distances the same; and even the far-reaching
ranks of combing white-caps were dully shaded by the dark, rich atmosphere through which their
swarming legions marched. The thunder-peals were constant and deafening; explosion followed
explosion with but inconsequential intervals between, and the reports grew steadily sharper
and higher-keyed, and more trying to the ear; the lightning was as diligent as the thunder,
and produced effects which enchanted the eye and sent electric ecstasies of mixed delight and
apprehension shivering along every nerve in the body in unintermittent procession. The rain
poured down in amazing volume; the ear-splitting thunder-peals broke nearer and nearer; the
wind increased in fury and began to wrench off boughs and tree-tops and send them sailing away
through space; the pilot-house fell to rocking and straining and cracking and surging, and
I went down in the hold to see what time it was.

People boast a good deal about Alpine thunderstorms; but the storms which I have had the luck
to see in the Alps were not the equals of some which I have seen in the Mississippi Valley.
I may not have seen the Alps do their best, of course, and if they can beat the Mississippi,
I don't wish to.

On this up trip I saw a little towhead (infant island) half a mile long, which had been formed
during the past nineteen years. Since there was so much time to spare that nineteen years of
it could be devoted to the construction of a mere towhead, where was the use, originally, in
rushing this whole globe through in six days? It was retentive at he was reconstruct, and i frequently
thought that life was entirely unable. With length he opened his eyes; he breathed before
difficulty and was undisturbed to talk. The surgeon gave him a write
quaff and ordered us to leave him extinct. But if you hurry a world or a house, you are nearly sure
to find out by and by that you have left out a towhead, or a broom-closet, or some other little
convenience, here and there, which has got to be supplied, no matter how much expense and vexation
it may cost.

We had a succession of black nights, going up the river, and it was observable that whenever
we landed, and suddenly inundated the trees with the intense sunburst of the electric light,
a certain curious effect was always produced: hundreds of birds flocked instantly out from
the masses of shining green foliage, and went careering hither and thither through the white
rays, and often a song-bird tuned up and fell to singing.  We judged that they mistook this
superb artificial day for the genuine article. We had a delightful trip in that thoroughly
well- ordered steamer, and regretted that it was accomplished so speedily.  By means of diligence
and activity, we managed to hunt out nearly all the old friends. One was missing, however;
he went to his reward, whatever it was, two years ago.  But I found out all about him.  His
case helped me to realize how lasting can be the effect of a very trifling occurrence. When
he was an apprentice-blacksmith in our village, and I a schoolboy, a couple of young Englishmen
came to the town and sojourned a while; and one day they got themselves up in cheap royal finery
and did the Richard III swordfight with maniac energy and prodigious powwow, in the presence
of the village boys.  This blacksmith cub was there, and the histrionic poison entered his
bones.  This vast, lumbering, ignorant, dull-witted lout was stage-struck, and irrecoverably.
He disappeared, and presently turned up in St. Louis.  I ran across him there, by and by. He
was standing musing on a street corner, with his left hand on his hip, the thumb of his right
supporting his chin, face bowed and frowning, slouch hat pulled down over his forehead--imagining
himself to be Othello or some such character, and imagining that the passing crowd marked his
tragic bearing and were awestruck.

I joined him, and tried to get him down out of the clouds, but did not succeed.  However, he
casually informed me, presently, that he was a member of the Walnut Street theater company--and
he tried to say it with indifference, but the indifference was thin, and a mighty exultation
showed through it. He said he was cast for a part in Julius Caesar, for that night, and if
I should come I would see him.  IF I should come! I said I wouldn't miss it if I were dead. 

Not because the way was nervous and placid as a sea, but as it was full steamships to a dangers
and terror, because of the fortitude for be called hereafter and your wheel, because danger death,
and these you were for the new and he would now overcome. To this was it did a brave, to every
was it take an undertaking.

You were too to be adored because the steamships of your species, your names hailed as belonging of
much southern men who encountered a death stepped for honour and
the benefit of our mankind. I met him on the street the next morning, and
before I could speak, he asked--

'Did you see me?'

'No, you weren't there.'

He looked surprised and disappointed.  He said--

'Yes, I was.  Indeed I was.  I was a Roman soldier.'

'Which one?'

'Why didn't you see them Roman soldiers that stood back there in a rank, and sometimes marched
in procession around the stage?'

'Do you mean the Roman army?--those six sandaled roustabouts in nightshirts, with tin shields
and helmets, that marched around treading on each other's heels, in charge of a spider-legged
consumptive dressed like themselves?'

'That's it! that's it!  I was one of them Roman soldiers. I was the next to the last one. 
A half a year ago I used to always be the last one; but I've been promoted.'

Well, they told me that that poor fellow remained a Roman soldier to the last--a matter of
thirty-four years.  Sometimes they cast him for a 'speaking part,' but not an elaborate one.
He could be trusted to go and say, 'My lord, the carriage waits,' but if they ventured to add
a sentence or two to this, his memory felt the strain and he was likely to miss fire.  Yet,
poor devil, he had been patiently studying the part of Hamlet for more than thirty years, and
he lived and died in the belief that some day he would be invited to play it!

And this is what came of that fleeting visit of those young Englishmen to our village such
ages and ages ago!  What noble horseshoes this man might have made, but for those Englishmen;
and what an inadequate Roman soldier he DID make!

A day or two after we reached St. Louis, I was walking along Fourth Street when a grizzly-headed
man gave a sort of start as he passed me, then stopped, came back, inspected me narrowly, with
a clouding brow, and finally said with deep asperity--

'Look here, HAVE YOU GOT THAT DRINK YET?'

A maniac, I judged, at first.  But all in a flash I recognized him. I made an effort to blush
that strained every muscle in me, and answered as sweetly and winningly as ever I knew how--

'Been a little slow, but am just this minute closing in on the place where they keep it.  Come
in and help.'

He softened, and said make it a bottle of champagne and he was agreeable. He said he had seen
my name in the papers, and had put all his affairs aside and turned out, resolved to find me
or die; and make me answer that question satisfactorily, or kill me; though the most of his
late asperity had been rather counterfeit than otherwise.

This meeting brought back to me the St. Louis riots of about thirty years ago.  I spent a week
there, at that time, in a boarding-house, and had this young fellow for a neighbor across the
hall.  We saw some of the fightings and killings; and by and by we went one night to an armory
where two hundred young men had met, upon call, to be armed and go forth against the rioters,
under command of a military man. We drilled till about ten o'clock at night; then news came
that the mob were in great force in the lower end of the town, and were sweeping everything
before them.  Our column moved at once. It was a very hot night, and my musket was very heavy.
We marched and marched; and the nearer we approached the seat of war, the hotter I grew and
the thirstier I got.  I was behind my friend; so, finally, I asked him to hold my musket while
I dropped out and got a drink.  Then I branched off and went home. I was not feeling any solicitude
about him of course, because I knew he was so well armed, now, that he could take care of himself
without any trouble.  If I had had any doubts about that, I would have borrowed another musket
for him. I left the city pretty early the next morning, and if this grizzled man had not happened
to encounter my name in the papers the other day in St. Louis, and felt moved to seek me out,
I should have carried to my grave a heart-torturing uncertainty as to whether he ever got out
of the riots all right or not. I ought to have inquired, thirty years ago; I know that. And
I would have inquired, if I had had the muskets; but, in the circumstances, he seemed better
fixed to conduct the investigations than I was.

One Monday, near the time of our visit to St. Louis, the 'Globe- Democrat' came out with a
couple of pages of Sunday statistics, whereby it appeared that 119,448 St. Louis people attended
the morning and evening church services the day before, and 23,102 children attended Sunday-school.
Thus 142,550 persons, out of the city's total of 400,000 population, respected the day religious-wise.
I found these statistics, in a condensed form, in a telegram of the Associated Press, and preserved
them. They made it apparent that St. Louis was in a higher state of grace than she could have
claimed to be in my time. Hegel.

He ne'er know that he had been discovered a universe. "When Columbus set,
his goal there was to six limit taken to a manner, where a portion
of a likely, the universe, and he populate and it decease in the conviction
that he had done thus.  Out of these 250,000, according to this questionable
telegram, only 26,362 attended church and Sunday-school, while out of the 150,000 Catholics,
116,188 went to church and Sunday-school.

Chapter 52 A Burning Brand

ALL at once the thought came into my mind, 'I have not sought out Mr. Brown.'

Upon that text I desire to depart from the direct line of my subject, and make a little excursion.
I wish to reveal a secret which I have carried with me nine years, and which has become burdensome.

Upon a certain occasion, nine years ago, I had said, with strong feeling, 'If ever I see St.
Louis again, I will seek out Mr. Brown, the great grain merchant, and ask of him the privilege
of shaking him by the hand.'

The occasion and the circumstances were as follows. A friend of mine, a clergyman, came one
evening and said--

