Sarah Woodruff!--I wonder where she is now?--sat next to me in my sampler days, and her canvas
was white, while mine was yellow. Her border was worked with blue, and mine with green. With
a child's inscrutable and wonderful awareness of underlying facts, I knew that Sarah Woodruff's
father was richer than mine, and that the white canvas and blue border, which the teacher said
"went with it," was an indication of it. I have it now, the little faded yellow parallelogram
of canvas, on which the germ of the very fingers with which I am now writing wrought with painstaking
care--"Executed by Candace Thurber, her age six years." They have since had various fortunes
and experiences, these fingers, and have wrought to the satisfaction, I hope, of their foregone
line of Puritan ancestors.

The sampler has special claims upon the world, because it is probable that all forms of textile
design originated with it. In fact, design for needlework began with small squares formed by
crossing stitches at the junction of textile fiber.

In sequences these squares formed lines, blocks, and corner, and in double-line juxtaposition
made the form of border probably the oldest ornamental decoration in the world, generally known
as a Roman border. This decoration escaped from textiles into stone and building materials,
and in fact appeared in the elaboration of all materials, from the fronts of temples to the
ornamentation of a crown. The most ancient examples of design are founded upon a square, and
this points inevitably to the stitch covering the crossing of threads, the cross-stitch, which
preceded all others and remained the only decorative stitch until weaving sprang into so fine
an art that interstices between threads are unnoticeable. Then, and not until then, the long
over-stitch, the opus plumarium, which we call "Kensington," was invented, and served to make
English embroidery famous in early English history. This was the stitch used by the Pilgrim
mothers in their crewel embroidery, as we use it to-day in most of our decorative presentations.

In spite of the achievements of the opus plumarium, we are indebted to simple cross-stitch,
to the obligations of the mathematical square of hand weavings, for all the wonderful borderings
which have been evolved by ages of the use of the needle, since decoration began. We do not
stop to think of the artistic intelligence or gift which made mathematical spaces express beautiful
form, any more than we stop in our reading to think of the sensitive intelligence which drew
a letter and made it the expression of sound, and yet most of us use the result of some exceptional
intelligence and feel the exaltation of what we call culture.

The stitch itself is entitled to the greatest respect, as the very first form of decoration
with the needle--an art growing out of and controlled by the earlier art of weaving. Decorative
bands of cross-stitch come to us on shreds of linen found in the sepulchers of Egypt and the
burial grounds of the prehistoric races of South America. I have seen, in a collection of textiles
found in their ancient burial places, the most elaborate and beautiful of cross-stitch borders,
wrought into the fabrics which enriched Pizarro's shiploads of loot sent from Vicuna, Peru,
to the court of Spain at the time of the wonderful and barbarous "Conquest." All of the old
"Roman" borders are found in this collection, the best designs the world has produced, those
which architects of the period used upon the fronts and in the interiors of their first creations.
And here arises the ever recurring question of thought-sharing between the most widely removed
of the earlier human races. How did early Peruvians and far-off Latins think in the same forms,
and how did they come to select certain ones as the best, and cleave to them as a common inheritance?
But leaving the puzzle of design and returning to the cross-stitch, which was its first interpretation
or medium, and to the little Puritans who shared its acquaintance and practice with the women
of all ages, we may see how the New England sampler opened the door of inheritance.

As Eve sewed her garments of leaves in the Garden of Eden, so each one of these little Puritan
Eves, so far removed in the long history of the race from the first one, was heir to her ingenuities
as well as her failings, from her patching together of small and inadequate things, to her
creative function in the kingdom of the world, as well as to her attempts to sweeten life,
and to her failures and successes.

The learning to do an A or a B in cross-stitch was the beginning of household doing, which
is the business of woman's life. The decorative and the useful were evenly balanced in sampler
making. All this skill in lettering could be applied to the stores of household linen in the
way of marking, for cross-stitch letters, done in colored threads, were a part of the finish
of sheets and pillowcases and fine toweling which made so important a part of the riches of
the household, and it led by easy grades of familiarity to more comprehensive methods of decoration.
In truth, the letters first practiced in cross-stitch opened the door to all future elaborations,
and were the vehicle of moral instruction as well; for little Puritans took their first doses
of Bible history in carefully embroidered text, and their notions of pictorial art from cross-stitch
illustrations. One finds upon some of the early examples pictures of Adam and Eve in the Garden
of Eden, with the ever present author of sin, climbing the stem of the tree of life, or Jacob's
dream of angels ascending and descending a ladder, intersecting clouds of blue and smoke-colored
stitches.

These pictorial samplers are certainly interesting, but those which confine themselves to simple
cross-stitch with borders, and the name of the little child who wrought them, touch a note
of domestic life which is more than interesting.

The sampler was purely English in its derivation and followed the English with great fidelity,
although redolent of Puritan life and thought. Sometimes, indeed, it carried cross-stitch to
the very limit of its capability in an attempt to render Bible scenes pictorially, but for
the most part it was confined to the practice of various styles of lettering consolidated into
text or verse.

The material upon which they were worked was generally of canvas, either white or yellow, and
this was of English manufacture. As all manufactures were things of price, later samplers were
often worked upon coarse homespun linens, which, barring the variations in the size of the
threads inevitable in hand-spinning, made a fairly good material for cross-stitch.

Sampler making was a home rather than a school taught industry, going down from mother to daughter
along with darning and other processes of the needle, and having no relation, except that of
its dexterity, to the distinct style of decorative embroidery called crewelwork, which accompanied
it, or even preceded it.

The collecting of samplers has become rather a fad in these days, and as they are almost exclusively
of New England origin, it gives an opportunity of acquaintance with the little Puritan girl
which is not without its charm. As most of their samplers were signed with their names, the
acquaintance becomes quite intimate, and one feels that these little Puritans were good as
well as diligent. Here is Harmony Twitchell's name upon a blue and white sampler. What child
whose name was Harmony could quarrel with other children, or how could this other, whose long-suffering
name was Patience, be resentful of the roughnesses of small male Puritans? Hate-evil and Wait-still
and Hope-still and Thanks and Unity must have sat together like little doves and made crooked
A's and B's and C's and picked out the frayed sewing-silk threads under the reproofs of the
teacher of the Infant School, Miss Mather or Miss Coffin or Miss Hooker, whose father was a
clergyman, or even Miss Bradford, whose uncle was the Governor?

All this is in the story of the sampler, and so the teaching and practice of the canvas went
constantly forward. The method was so simple, quite within the capacity of an alphabet-studying
child. To make an A in cross-stitch was to create a link between the baby mind and the letter
represented. There was no choice, no judgment or experience needed. The limit of every stitch
was fixed by a cross thread, one little open space to send the needle down and another through
which to bring it back, and the next one and the next, then to cross the threads and the thing
was done. Yes, the little slips could make a sampler, every one of them, and when it was made,
sometimes it was put in a frame with a glass over it, and Patience's mother would show it to
visitors, and Patience would taste the sweets of superiority, than which there is nothing to
the childish heart, nor even to mature humanity, so sweet.

There were Infant Schools in my own days, little congregations of children not far removed
from babyhood, who were taught the alphabet from huge cards, and repeated it simultaneously
from the great blackboard which was mounted in the center of the room. In the schools, as well
as at home, every little girl-baby was taught to sew, to overhand minutely upon small blocks
of calico, the edges turned over and basted together. When a perfect capacity for overhand
sewing was established, the next short step was to the sampler, and the tiny fingers were guided
along the intricacies of canvas crossings. The dear little rose-tipped fingers! the small hands!
velvet soft and satin smooth, diverse even in their littlenesses! They were taught even then
to be dexterous with woman's special tool, the very same in purpose and intent with which queens
and dames and ladies had played long before.

The sampler world was a real world in those days, full of youth and as living as the youth
of the world must always be, but now it is dead as the mummies, and the carefully preserved
remains are only the shell which once held human rivalries and passions.

Quilts

The domestic needlework of the late seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries, should not
be overlooked in a history of embroidery, it being often so ambitiously decorative and the
stitchery so remarkable. The patchwork quilt was an instance of much of this effort. It was
unfortunate that an economic law governed this species of work, which prevented its possible
development. The New England conscience, sworn to utility in every form, had ruled that no
material should be bought for this purpose. It could only take advantage of what happened,
and it seldom happened that cottons of two or three harmonious colors came together in sufficient
quantity to complete the five-by-five or six-by-six which went to the making of a patchwork
quilt. Nevertheless one sometimes comes across a "rising sun" or a "setting sun" bedquilt which
is remarkable for skillful shading, and was an inspiration in the house where it was born,
and where the needlework comes quite within the pale of ornamental stitchery.

This variety of domestic needlework, and one or two others which are akin to it, survived in
the northern and middle states in the form of quilting until at least the middle of the nineteenth
century, while in the southern states, especially in the mountains of Kentucky and North Carolina,
it still survives in its original painstaking excellence.

Among the earlier examples of these quilts one occasionally finds one which is really worthy
of the careful preservation which it receives. I remember one which impressed itself upon my
memory because of the humanity interwoven with it, as well as the skill of its making. It was
a construction of blocks, according to patchwork law, every alternate block of the border having
an applied rose cut from printed calico in alternate colors of yellow, red, and blue. These
roses were carefully applied with buttonhole stitch, and the cotton ground underneath cut away
to give uniform thickness for quilting. The main body of the quilt was unnoticeably good, being
a collection of faintly colored patches of correct construction. The quilting was a marvel--a
large carefully drawn design, evidently inspired by branching rose vines without flowers, only
the leafage and stems being used, and all these bending forms filled in with a diamonded background
of exquisite quilting. The palely colored center was distinguished only by its needlework,
leaving the rose border to emphasize and frame it.

There was a bit of personal history attached to this quilt in the shape of a small tag, which said:

"This quilt made by Delia Piper, for occupation after the death of an only son. Bolivar, Southern
Missouri, 1845."

The same kind friend who had introduced me to this quilt, finding me appreciative of woman's
efforts in fine stitchery, took me to call upon other pieces which were equally worthy of admiration.
One was a white quilt of what was called "stuffed work," made by working two surfaces of cloth
together, the upper one of fine cambric, the lower one of coarse homespun. Upon the upper one
a large ornamental basket was drawn, filled with flowers of many kinds, the drawing outlines
being followed by a back stitchery as regular and fine as if done by machine, looking, in fact,
like a string of beaded stitches, and yet it was accomplished by a needle in the hand of a
skillful but unprofessional sewer. The picture, for it was no less, was completed by the stuffing
of each leaf and flower and stem with flakes of cotton pushed through the homespun lining.
The weaving of the basket was a marvel of bands of buttonholed material, which stood out in
appropriate thickness. The centers of the flowers had simulated stamens done in knotted work.

I think this stuffed work was rather rare, for I have only seen two specimens, and as it required
unusual and exhaustive skill in needlework, the production was naturally limited. The practice
was one of the exotic efforts of some one of large leisure and lively ambitions who belonged
to the class of prosperous citizens.

"Patchwork," as it was appropriately called, was more often a farmhouse industry, which accounts
for its narrow limits, since, with choice of material, even a small familiarity with geometrical
design might bring good results. It might have easily become good domestic art. Geometrical
borders in two colors would have taken their place in decorative work, and the applied work,
so often ventured upon, was the beginning of one very capable method. The skillful needlework,
the elaborate quilting, the stitchery and stuffing are worthy of respect, for the foundation
of it all was great dexterity in the use of the needle.

CHAPTER IV -- MORAVIAN WORK, PORTRAITURE, FRENCH EMBROIDERY, AND LACEWORK

While the ladies and house mistresses of New England were busy with their crewelwork, the children
with their little samplers, and farm housemothers sewed patchwork in the intervals of spinning
and weaving, an entirely different development of needlework art had taken place, beginning
in Pennsylvania. Embroidery in America did not grow exclusively from seed brought over in the
Mayflower. It sprang from many sources, but its finest qualities came from the influence of
what was called "Bethlehem Embroidery."

The advent of this style of needlework was interesting. It originated in a religious community
founded in 1722 at Herrnhut, Germany, by Count Zinzendorf. It was a strictly religious, semimonastic
group of single men and single women, whose hearts were filled with zeal for mission work.
At that period, I suppose America seemed a possible and promising field for such efforts, and
accordingly forty-five of the brothers and as many of the sisters turned their faces toward
this new world. One can fancy that when the thought first entered their minds, of coming to
a land peopled by savage Indians, with but a bare sprinkling of "the Lord's people," they trembled
even in their dreams at the thought of the cruel incidents they might encounter in that wilderness
toward which they were impelled by apostolic zeal, and the unquiet sea upon which they were
about to embark foreshadowed an unknown future. But there was small danger for them upon the
sea; surely they could not sink in troubled waters, these etherial souls! The heavenly quality
of them would upbear the vessel and cargo. They would come safe to land, no matter how tempestuous
the elements!

I suppose, at all periods of the world, prophet and martyr stuff might be sifted out from the
man-stuff of the times if the race had need of them. In normal states of growth, we call them
"cranks" and look for no results from their existence. But the elusive spirit of love never
dies. It appears and reappears in the history of all races and times, and leaves its mark upon
them in various shapes of beneficence.

These missionary brothers and sisters had chosen as the theater of their labor that part of
our broad land which was pleasantly christened Pennsylvania, and selecting a portion of the
southern area, they founded their colony and called it "Ephrata."

It existed for forty years, constantly increasing its membership, and living a life reaching
out toward a perfection of goodness which seemed quite possible to their apostolic souls.

Time, however, brought changes of circumstance and of mind, and after many philanthropic phases,
in 1749 the mingled elements and aspirations of the enlarged congregation were merged into
two boarding schools, one for boys, which was the germ of Lehigh University, and another for
girls at Bethlehem, which, under the careful fostering of the sisters, became the birthplace
of the famous Moravian needlework. So were melted into the modern form of scholastic instruction
the various efforts of religious activity, the eternal reaching out for conditions in human
life in which it is easy and natural to be good and happy. It had not been accomplished in
this semimonastic life, but the efforts toward it had their influence, and, you may judge by
the quality of its founders, had never died.

The two schools very early in their history seem to have established a reputation for learning
and culture which made them a desirable influence in the formative lives of the children of
the most thoughtful, as well as the most prominent and prosperous, American families. Indeed,
the school for girls became so popular as to lead to an extension and founding of several branches
in other of the southern states. The art and practice of fine needlework became a popular and
necessary feature of them, distinguishing them from all other schools. "Tambour and fine needlework"
were among the extras of the school, and charged for, as we learn from school records, at the
rate of "seventeen shillings and sixpence, Pennsylvania currency."

