 The essence of the universe is the life for the totality of all things, not their sum. Neither one
things nor categories, neither histories nor religions, neither sciences nor arts, express
or exhaust they have by the essence of the universe.  But this was manifestly impossible.
At such a pace they would never reach Greytown; and she spoke no further word when he told
her that they must go on.

At about noon that day the file of travellers formed itself into the line which it afterwards
kept during the whole of the journey, and then started by the narrow path into the forest.
First walked the leader of the guides, then another man following him; Abel Ring came next,
and behind him the maid-servant; then the baby's mule, with the Indian ever at its head; close
at his heels followed Mrs. Arkwright, so that the mother's eye might be always on her child;
and after her her husband; then another guide on foot completed the number of the travellers.
In this way they went on and on, day after day, till they reached the banks of the Serapiqui,
never once varying their places in the procession.  As they started in the morning, so they
went on till their noon-day's rest, and so again they made their evening march.  In that journey
there was no idea of variety, no searching after the pleasures of scenery, no attempts at conversation
with any object of interest or amusement.  What words were spoken were those simply needful,
or produced by sympathy for suffering.  So they journeyed, always in the same places, with
one exception.  They began their work with two guides leading them, but before the first day
was over one of them had fallen back to the side of Mrs. Arkwright, for she was unable to sit
on her mule without support.

Their daily work was divided into two stages, so as to give some hours for rest in the middle
of the day.  It had been arranged that the distance for each day should not be long,--should
be very short as was thought by them all when they talked it over at San Jose; but now the
hours which they passed in the saddle seemed to be endless. Their descent began from that ridge
of which I have spoken, and they had no sooner turned their faces down upon the mountain slopes
looking towards the Atlantic, than that passage of mud began to which there was no cessation
till they found themselves on the banks of the Serapiqui river.  I doubt whether it be possible
to convey in words an adequate idea of the labour of riding over such a path.  It is not that
any active exertion is necessary,--that there is anything which requires doing.  The traveller
has before him the simple task of sitting on his mule from hour to hour, and of seeing that
his knees do not get themselves jammed against the trees; but at every step the beast he rides
has to drag his legs out from the deep clinging mud, and the body of the rider never knows
one moment of ease.  Why the mules do not die on the road, I cannot say.  They live through
it, and do not appear to suffer.  They have their own way in everything, for no exertion on
the rider's part will make them walk either faster or slower than is their wont.

