In all these matters the real question at issue is one between the emergency and the implement.
One may illustrate by a simple comparison. Suppose there is a need to dig a hole and that there
is no spade available, a Fabian with Mr. Webb's gifts becomes invaluable. He seizes upon a
broken old cricket-bat, let us say, uses it with admirable wit and skill, and presto! there
is the hole made and the moral taught that one need not always wait for spades before digging
holes. It is a lesson that Socialism stood in need of, and which henceforth it will always
bear in mind. But suppose we want to dig a dozen holes, it may be worth while to spend a little
time in going to beg, borrow or buy a spade. If we have to dig holes indefinitely, day after
day, it will be sheer foolishness sticking to the bat. It will be worth while then not simply
to get a spade, but to get just the right sort of spade in size and form that the soil requires,
to get the proper means of sharpening and repairing the spade, to insure a proper supply. Or
to point the comparison, the reconstruction of our legislative and local government machinery
is a necessary preliminary to Socialization in many directions. Mr. Webb has very effectually
admitted that, is in fact himself leading us away from that by taking up the study of local
government as his principal occupation, but the typical "Webbite" of the Fabian Society, who
is very much to Webb what the Marxist is to Marx, entranced by his leader's skill, still clings
to a caricature distortion of this earlier Fabian ideal. He dreams of the most foxy and wonderful
digging by means of box-lids, table-spoons, dish-covers--anything but spades designed and made
for the job in hand--just as he dreams of an extensive expropriation of landlords by a legislature
that includes the present unreformed House of Lords....

§ 3.

It was only at the very end of the nineteenth century that the Fabian Socialist movement was
at all quickened to the need of political reconstruction as extensive as the economic changes
it advocated, and it is still far from a complete apprehension of the importance of the political
problem. To begin with, Mr. and Mrs. Webb, having completed their work on Labour Regulation,
took up the study of local government and commenced that colossal task that still engages them,
their book upon English Local Government, of which there has as yet appeared (1907) only one
volume out of seven. (Immense as this service is, it is only one part of conjoint activities
that will ultimately give constructive social conceptions an enormous armoury of scientifically
arranged fact.)

As the outcome of certain private experiences, the moral of which was pointed by discussion
with Mr. and Mrs. Webb, the present writer in 1902 put before the Fabian Society a paper on
Administrative Areas,[22] in which he showed clearly that the character and efficiency and
possibilities of a governing body depend almost entirely upon the suitability to its particular
function of the size and quality of the constituency it represents and the area it administers.
This may be stated with something approaching scientific confidence. A local governing body
for too small an area or elected upon an unsound franchise cannot be efficient. But obviously
before you can transfer property from private to collective control you must have something
in the way of a governing institution which has a reasonably good chance of developing into
an efficient controlling body. The leading conception of this Administrative Area paper appeared
subsequently running through a series of tracts, The New Heptarchy Series, in which one finds
it applied first to this group of administrative problems and then to that.[23] These tracts
are remarkable if only because they present the first systematic recognition on the part of
any organized Socialist body of the fact that a scientific reconstruction of the methods of
government constitutes not simply an incidental but a necessary part of the complete Socialist
scheme, the first recognition of the widening scope of the Socialist design that makes it again
a deliberately constructive project.[24]

   [22] See Appendix to Mankind in the Making. (Chapman and
        Hall, 1905.)

   [23] 1. Municipalization by Provinces. 2. On the Reform
        of Municipal Service. 3. Public Control of Electric Power
        and Transit. 4. The Revival of Agriculture: a National
        Policy for Great Britain. 5. The Abolition of Poor Law
        Guardians. Others to follow. (Fabian Society, 1905-6.)

   [24] This generalization is a sweeping one, and would need,
        were one attempting to give more than a very broad
        impression of the sequence of Socialist ideas, considerable
        modification. Such earlier tracts as The New Reform Bill,
        Facts for Londoners, Facts for Bristol, dealt mainly
        with the question of machinery.

It is only an initial recognition, a mere first raid into a great and largely unexplored province
of study. This province is in the broadest terms, social psychology. A huge amount of thought,
discussion, experiment, is to be done in this field--needs imperatively to be done before the
process of the socialization of economic life can go very far beyond its present attainments.
Declare the Social revolution, we were told in a note of cheery optimism by the Marxist apostles,
and political institutions will come like flowers in May!

The student of history knows better. These confident claims ignore the psychological factors
in government and human association; they disregard a jungle of difficulties that lie directly
in our way. Socialists have to face the facts; firstly, that the political and intellectual
institutions of the present time belong to the present condition of things, and that the intellectual
methods, machinery and political institutions of the better future must almost inevitably be
of a very different type; secondly, that such institutions will not come about of themselves--which
indeed is the old superstition of laissez faire in a new form--but must be thought out, planned
and organized just as completely as economic socialization has had to be planned and organized;
and thirdly, that so far Socialism has evolved scarcely any generalizations even, that may
be made the basis of new intellectual and governmental--as distinguished from administrative--methods.
It has preached collective ownership and collective control, and it has only begun to recognize
that this implies the necessity of a collective will and new means and methods altogether for
the collective mind.

The administrative Socialism which Mr. Webb and the Fabian Society developed upon a modification
of the broad generalizations of the Marx phase, is as it were no more than the first courses
above those foundations of Socialism. It supplies us with a conception of methods of transition
and with a vision of a great and disciplined organization of officials, a scientific bureaucracy
appointed by representative bodies of diminishing activity and importance, and coming to be
at last the real working control of the Socialist State. But it says nothing of what is above
the officials, what drives the officials. It is a palace without living rooms, with nothing
but offices; a machine, as yet unprovided with a motor. No doubt we must have that organization
of officials if we mean to bring about a Socialist State, but the mind recoils with something
like terror from the conception of a State run and ruled by officials, terminating in officials,
with an official as its highest expression. One has a vision of a community with blue-books
instead of a literature, and inspectors instead of a conscience. The mystical democracy of
the Marxist, though manifestly impossible, had in it something attractive, something humanly
and desperately pugnacious and generous, something indeed heroic; the bureaucracy of the Webbite,
though far more attainable, is infinitely less inspiring. But that may be because the inspiring
elements remain to be stated rather than that these practical constructive projects are in
their nature, and incurably, hard and narrow. Instead of a gorgeous flare in the darkness,
we have the first cold onset of daylight heralding the sun. If the letter of the teaching of
Mr. and Mrs. Webb is bureaucracy, that is certainly not the spirit of their lives.

The earlier Socialists gave Socialism substance, rudis indigestaque moles, but noble stuff;
Administrative Socialism gave it a physical structure and nerves, defined its organs and determined
its functions; it remains for the Socialist of to-day to realize in this shaping body of the
civilized State of the future the breath of life already unconfessedly there, to state in clear
terms the reality for which our plans are made, by which alone they can be realized, that is
to say, the collective mind of humanity, the soul and moral being of mankind.

CHAPTER XIII

CONSTRUCTIVE SOCIALISM

§ 1.

Such a group of ideas and motives as Socialism, fundamentally true as it is to the needs of
life, and arising as it does from the inevitable suggestion of very widely dispersed evils
and insufficiencies, does not spring from any one source, nor develop along any single line.
It appears as a smouldering fire appears, first here, then there, first in one form of expression
and then another, now under this name and now under that.

The manifest new possibilities created by the progress of applied science, the inevitable change
of scale and of the size and conception of a community that arises out of them, necessitate
at least the material form of Socialism--that is to say, the replacement of individual action
by public organization, in spite of a hundred vested interests. The age that regarded Herbert
Spencer as its greatest philosopher, for example, was urged nevertheless, unwillingly and protestingly
but effectually, through phase after phase of more and more co-ordinated voluntary effort,
until at last it had to undertake a complete system of organized free public primary education.
There the moving finger of change halts not a moment; already it is going on to secondary education,
to schemes for a complete public educational organization from reformatory school up to professorial
chair. The practical logic of the case is invincible.

So, too, the public organization of scientific research goes on steadily against all prejudices
and social theories, and, in a very different field, the plain inconveniences of a private
control of traffic in America and England alike, force the affected property owners whose businesses
are hampered and damaged towards the realization that freedom of private property, in these
services at least, is evil and must end. As the proofs of these pages pass through my hands
comes the news of Mr. Lloyd George's settlement of the dispute between railway directors and
employés by the establishment of a method of compulsory arbitration. Then, again, the movement
for public sanitation and hygiene spreads and broadens, and the natural alarm of even the most
conservative at the falling birth-rate and the stationary infantile death-rate is evidently
ripening for an advance towards public control and care even in the relation of child to parent,
the most intimate of all personal affairs.

Inevitably all such movements must coalesce--their spirit is one, the spirit of construction--and
inevitably their coalescence will take the form of a wide and generous restatement of Socialism.
Nothing but a broader understanding of the broadening propositions of Socialism is needed for
that recognition now.

Socialism, indeed, does not simply look, it appeals to the constructive professions at the
present time, to the medical man, the engineer, the architect, the scientific agriculturist.

Each of these sorts of men, in just so far as he is concerned with the reality of his profession,
in just so far as he is worthy of his profession, must resent the considerations of private
profit, of base economies, that constantly limit and spoil his work and services in the interests
of a dividend or of some financial manœuvre. So far they have been antagonized towards Socialism
by the errors of its adherents, by the impression quite wantonly created, that Socialism meant
either mob rule or the rule of pedantic, unsympathetic officials. They have heard too much
of democracy, too much of bureaucracy, and not enough of construction. They have felt that
on the whole the financial exploiter, detestable master as he often is, was better than the
rule of either clamour on the one hand or red tape on the other. But, as I have been seeking
to suggest, mob rule and official rule do not exhaust the possible alternatives. Neither ignorant
democracy nor narrow bureaucracy can be the destined rulers of a Socialist State. The only
conceivable rule in a Socialist civilization is through the operation of a collective mind
that must be by its nature constructive and enterprising, because only through the creation
of such a mind can Socialism be brought about. A Socialist State cannot exist without that
mind existing also, and a collective mind can scarcely appear without some form of Socialism
giving it a material body. Now it is only under an intelligent collective mind that any of
the dreams of these constructive professions can attain an effective realization. Where will
the private profit in a universal sanitation, for example, be found, in the abolition of diseases,
in the planned control of the public health, in the abolition of children's deaths? What thought
of private gain will ever scrap our obsolescent railroads and our stagnating industrial monopolies
for new clean methods? So long as they pay a dividend they will keep on upon their present
lines. The modern architect knows, the engineer knows we might build ourselves perfectly clean,
smokeless magnificent cities to-day, as full of pure water as ancient Rome, as full of pure
air as the Engadine, if private ownership did not block the way. Who can doubt it who understands
what a doctor, or an electrical engineer, or a real architect understands? Surely all the best
men in these professions are eager to get to work on the immense possibilities of life, possibilities
of things cleared up, of things made anew, that their training has enabled them to visualize!
What stands in their way, stands in our way; social disorganization, individualist self-seeking,
narrowness of outlook, self-conceit, ignorance.

With that conception they must surely turn in the end, as we Socialists turn, to the most creative
profession of all, to that great calling which with each generation renews the world's "circle
of ideas," the Teachers!

The whole trend and purpose of this book from the outset has been to insist upon the mental
quality of Socialism, to maintain that it is a business of conventions about property and plans
of reorganization, that is to say, of changes and expansions of the ideas of men, changes and
expansions of their spirit of action and their habitual circles of ideas. Unless you can change
men's minds you cannot effect Socialism, and when you have made clear and universal certain
broad understandings, Socialism becomes a mere matter of science and devices and applied intelligence.
That is the constructive Socialist's position. Logically, therefore, he declares the teacher
master of the situation. Ultimately the Socialist movement is teaching, and the most important
people in the world from the Socialist's point of view are those who teach--I mean of course
not simply those who teach in schools, but those who teach in pulpits, in books, in the press,
in universities and lecture-theatres, in parliaments and councils, in discussions and associations
and experiments of every sort, and, last in my list but most important of all, those mothers
and motherly women who teach little children in their earliest years. Every one, too, who enunciates
a new and valid idea, or works out a new contrivance, is a teacher in this sense.

And these Teachers collectively, perpetually renew the collective mind. In the measure that
in each successive generation they apprehend Socialism and transmit its spirit, is Socialism
nearer its goal.

§ 2.

At the present time in America and all the western European countries, there is a collective
mind, a public opinion made up of the most adventitious and interesting elements. swung on its shattered,
committees. Contact-yard, containing the higher than the always, workers, woke its reflection. Children,
of more, pretensions; it, inscription, comparing, Obiit, 64. Blessed are they, they shall be
comforted. Traveller, turned, colour, eyes,'mho, mien. He, mr, verdure, house, smokestack, inhospitable,
stood;--, roof. One, the traveller, gait. Re-entering stables, horse. ", humph!", is released pin;
and,--, saw, confusion, had been honouring.

", mr! looking, Sir, project., buy;'; honour'!" "?". ", ocean, Sir;, hasty; me! sure,', master!", Noncom,
affection, wanderer,. ", Sir, it put, once dealt,.', augh! Poor,'. Ah! she, indeed!" ";, doubt!
What!?" ";, honour, contact,", lips; ",--, she, volume, work, it,
door, town, origin?, Sir, seed, looked, was;, work,."

"!?" ", there,", significance; ", sir, there!" "?", alleviate,. "?"
", lady, maid;, mayhap!"

",
bunting;, sorry;'?, trust?" "; never!.,--!" ",., say?" ";,. Good; me-the-guinea, honour;, like!"
"; i! so!--, bunting,'s'." ";, baugh! honour;'!" ", bunting, it put,", yard; "." ", indeed,", him,
"', so, honour,'?, Master,', augh!" ", Bunting, eh?, mind, he."

"heart; the; and" bridle ",-free., honour,", drawing, ", unit; and'!" ", rent-suggestively." ","
trot; nation. ", too,", origin. "! Yesterday!" pace; and, him, spire,
long, clean, centre, old-fashioned, around, young. Yard, horse, persuaded,
house. ",", (landlord,) ",'house: mr: it put. Ah! Care, Miss,", nosegay;
", so, all.

Adversity, they, characters; and news. Very, Volume, young! Thereof, her! and would say. Their
boy, Contact, eleven, August, lady: we.

He arrive, Room,'. Then, Sir? Shall set?". Parents; she had continued, death, Walter, which so,
be persuaded, (kind,), now, change.

Building, road; garden-gate, guide, who, gravel-ride, bell, within? Walter:--. It, him! Changed, afar;
the woman; changed, again; the free had for always, hope; the, quiet; the, children. ", right; the
flower,', red.'air; Beam, languour; no pepler, stood, Hebe, smiles." "Ellinor!", "God! we at
last." ", Walter!" moment; and, overlip. "absent!", half. "tell that had descend on thoughts of-- had
divided strikingly? And, Ellinor, you?"

"ah!", recovering herself, that had been conjured, "do not revive,
work, desolate, recollections!"

", Ellinor; let. We are alone in--. Now, i have changed, forests, provision. Image, future; and
return, you, changed, but, oh, lovely! Ah, all! The consoler, guide, soother, mother, origin, husband,
could be to you!", heart. That had passed, her. The departed, feet;-- relative-- her first-- her
last love! Of world, time; on he, unconquered. Walter, beloved was his way at last! ",", pages,
organization, ", idiom, fate, us; Intern?"-- "true; in, villain,
redeemed.

Aggression,
care, men, punishment. Poverty, dressing.

Life, horror; and, died, system, him!" ", oldness?" ", wife, than, parish: the, principally, oblectation,
pepler, for, girl,'augh!'" "contented! Dealtry?" ", church-yard, memory, poesy,"', saith, next:
i,--.'"", Hales? "", respected, age., ""? "", spendthrift; youth: they, parents, no, viz. Heir.
"", John, non-place? "", problem. "" Account? "" age; days, owing to growing, care; every, ghetto!
"" Darkmans? "", fatigue, engineering, day. "" well!--, married; Manor-house? "" a; the, fresh
words, haunts; not so, terror, shame.

Committee; after time, England, life, honour; and, services.

", life. Emergency, temptation, then, the, evening, self-sought, self-denied; some crime, honor. Fate,
all, lesson, for himself, contact

.
 It
is an instinct we have to conquer. Fair play in discussion is sustained by a cultivated respect,
by a correction of natural instinct; men need to be trained to be jealous of obscurantism,
of unfair argument, of authoritative interference with opinion when that opinion is against
them. In England such a jealousy does already largely exist, it has been cultivated with us
since the seventeenth century at least; America, it seemed to me during my short visit to the
States, has somewhat retrograded from its former British standard in this respect, there is
a crude majority tyranny in the matter of publication, an un-English disposition to boycott
libraries, books, authors and publications upon petty issues, a growing disposition to discriminate
in the mails against unpopular views. These interferences with open statement and discussion
are decivilizing forces.

Given a clear public understanding of these necessities as primary, then one may point out
that the next necessity for the mental existence of a Socialist State is an extension and cheapening
of the impartial universal distributing activity of the public post so that it becomes not
only the means of correspondence, but also of distributing books and newspapers, pamphlets
and every form of printed matter. The post-office must become bookseller and newsagent. In
France this is already the case with the press, and newspapers are handed in not by the newsboy
but by the public mail. In England Messrs. Smith and Mudie, and so forth, may censor what they
like among periodicals or books. The remedy is more toilsome and vexatious than the injury.
Neither England nor America has any security against finding its public supply of magazines
or literature suddenly choked by the manœuvres of some blackmailing Book or News Trust squalidly
"fighting" author or publisher for an increase in its proportion of profits, or interested
in financial exploitations liable to exposure. Neither country is secure against the complete
control of its channels of thought by some successful monopolistic adventurer....

The Socialist State will not for a moment permit such risks as these; it must certainly be
a ubiquitous newsvendor and bookseller; the ordinary newsvendor and bookseller must become
an impartial State official, working for a sure and comfortable salary instead of for precarious
profits. And this amplification of the book and news post and the book and news trades will
need to be not simply a municipal but a State service of the widest range.

Distribution, however, is only the beginning of the problem. There is the more difficult issue
of getting books and papers printed and published. And here we come to an intricate puzzle
in reconciling the indisputable need for untrammelled individual expression on the one hand
with public ownership on the other, and also with the difficult riddle how authors may be supported
under Socialist conditions. It is not within the design of this book to do more than indicate
a possible solution. These are problems the Socialist has still to work out. At present authors
with business shrewdness and the ability to be interesting get an income from the sale of their
books, and it seems possible that they might continue to be paid in that way under Socialism.
It is difficult outside the field of specialist work (which under any social system has to
be endowed in relation to colleges and universities) to find any other just way of discriminating
between the author who ought to get a living from writing, and the author who has no reasonable
claim to do so. But under Socialism, in addition to the private publisher or altogether replacing
him, there will have to be some sort of public publisher.

Here again difficulties arise. It is difficult to see how, if there is only one general State
publishing department, a sort of censorship can be altogether avoided, and even if, for example,
one insists upon the right of every one who cares to pay for it to have matter printed, bound
and issued by the public presses and binders, it still leaves a disagreeable possibility of
uniformity haunting the mind. But the whole trend of administrative Socialism is towards a
conception of great local governments, of land, elementary education, omnibus-transit, power
distribution and the like, vesting in the hands of municipalities as great as mediæval principalities;
and it seems possible to look to these great bodies and to the municipal patriotism and inter-municipal
rivalries that will develop about them, for just that spirited and competitive publishing that
is desirable, just as one looks now to their rivalries as a stimulus for art and architecture
and public dignity and display.[25] Already, as I have pointed out in a previous chapter (Chapter
IX., § 5), the decorative arts had to be rescued from the degrading influence of private enterprise;
no one wants to go back now to the early Victorian state of affairs, and so it is reasonable
to hope that out of the municipal art and technical schools, which teach printing, binding
and the like, public presses, public binderies and all the machinery of book production may
be developed in a natural and convenient manner. So, too, the municipalities might publish,
seek out, maintain and honour writers and sell the books they produced, against each other
all over the world. It would be a matter of pride for authors still unrecognized to go forth
to the world with the arms of some great city on their covers, and it would be a matter of
pride for any city to have its arms upon work become classic and immortal. So at least one
method of competition is possible in this matter....

   [25] I visited Liverpool and Manchester the other day for
        the first time in my life, and was delighted to find how the
        inferiority of the local art galleries to those of Glasgow
        rankled in people's minds.

This, however, is but one passing suggestion out of many possibilities. But in all these issues
of the intellectual life, it is manifest that public ownership must be so contrived, and can
be so contrived as to avoid centralization and a control without alternatives. Moreover, whatever
public publishing is done, it must be left open to any one to set up as an independent publisher
or printer, and to sell and advertise through the impartial public book and news distributing
organization.

I lay some stress upon this matter of book issuing because I think it is a remarkable and regrettable
thing about contemporary Socialist discussion that it does not seem to be in the least alive
to the great public disadvantage of leaving this vitally important service to private gain
getting. Municipal coal, municipal milk, municipal house owning, the Socialists seem prepared
for, and even municipal theatres, but municipal publication they still do not take into consideration.
They leave the capitalist free to contrive the control of their book supply and to check and
determine all the provender of their minds....

The problem of the press is perhaps to be solved by some parallel combination of individual
enterprise and public resources. All sorts of things may happen to the newspaper of to-day
even in the near future, it cannot but be felt that in its present form it is an extremely
transitory phenomenon, that it no longer embodies and rules public thought as it did in the
middle and later Victorian period, and that a separation of public discussion from the news
sheet is already in progress. Both in England and America the popular magazine seems taking
over an increasing share of the public thinking. The newspaper appears to be in the opening
throes of a period of fundamental change.

But I will not go into the future of the newspaper here. All these suggestions are merely thrown
out in the most tentative way to indicate the nature of the field for study that lies open
for any intelligent worker to cultivate, and that Socialists have so far been too busy to consider....

The same truth that controls must be divided and a competition at least for honour and repute
kept alive under Socialism, needs also to be applied to schools and colleges, and all the vast
machinery of research. It is imperative that there should be overlapping and competing organizations.
An educated and prosperous community such as we postulate for the Socialist State will necessarily
be more alert for interest and intellectual quality than our present "driven" multitude; its
ampler leisure, its wider horizons, will keep it critical and exacting of what claims its attention.
The rivalries of institutions and municipalities will be part of the drama of life. Under Socialism,
with the extension of the educational process it contemplates, universities and colleges must
become the most prominent of facts; nearly every one will have that feeling for some such place
which now one finds in a Trinity man for Trinity; the sort of feeling that sent the last thoughts
of Cecil Rhodes back to Oriel. Everywhere, balanced against the Town Hall or the Parliament
House, will be the great university buildings and art museums, the lecture halls open to all
comers, the great noiseless libraries, the book exhibitions and book and pamphlet stores, keenly
criticized, keenly used, will teem with unhurrying, incessant, creative activities.

And all this immense publicly sustained organization will be doing greatly and finely what
now our scattered line of Socialist propagandists is doing under every disadvantage, that is
to say it will be developing and sustaining the social self-consciousness, the collective sense
of the State.

§ 5.

I am naturally preoccupied with the Mind of that Civilized State we seek to make; because my
work lies in this department. And the specialized man of science--he will be concerned with
his own special synthesis, the Knowledge of the Civilized State, whether he measure crystals
or stain microtome sections or count stars.

And to the man or woman who looks at these issues not as one specialized in relation to some
constructive calling but as a common citizen, a mere human being eager to make and do from
the standpoint of personal liberty and personal affections, the appeal of this great constructive
project is equally strong. You want security and liberty! Here it is, safe from the greed of
trust and landlord; here is investment with absolute assurance and trading with absolute justice;
this is the only safe way to build your own house in perfect security, to make your own garden
safe for yourself and for your children's children, the only way in which you can link a hundred
million kindred wills in loyal co-operation with your own, and that is to do it not for yourself
alone and for your children alone, but for all the world--all the world doing it also for you--to
join yourself to this great making of a permanent well-being for mankind.

And here, finally, let me set out a sort of programme of Constructive Socialism, as it seems
to be shaping itself in the minds of contemporary Socialists out of the Fabianism of the eighties
and nineties, in order that the reader may be able to measure this fuller and completer proposition
against the earlier Administrative Socialism whose propositions are set out in Chapter XI.,
§ 1. All those are incorporated in this that follows--there is no contradiction whatever between
them, but there is amplification; new elements are taken into consideration, once disregarded
difficulties have been faced and partially resolved.

First, then, the Constructive Socialist has to do whatever lies in his power towards the enrichment
of the Socialist idea. He has to give whatever gifts he has as artist, as writer, as maker
of any sort to increasing and refining the conception of civilized life. He has to embody and
make real the State and the City. And the Socialist idea, constantly restated, refreshed and
elaborated, has to be made a part of the common circle of ideas; has to be grasped and felt
and assimilated by the whole mass of mankind, has to be made the basis of each individual's
private morality. That mental work is the primary, most essential function of Constructive
Socialism.

And next, Constructive Socialism has in every country to direct its energies and attention
to political reform, to the scientific reconstruction of our representative and administrative
machinery so as to give power and real expression to the developing collective mind of the
community, and to remove the obstructions to Socialization that are inevitable where institutions
stand for "interests" or have fallen under the sway of aggressive private property or of narrowly
organized classes. Governing and representative bodies, advisory and investigatory organizations
of a liberal and responsive type have to be built up, bodies that shall be really capable of
the immense administrative duties the secular abolition of the great bulk of private ownership
will devolve upon them.

Thirdly, the constructive Socialist sets himself to forward the resumption of the land by the
community, by increased control, by taxation, by death duties, by purchase and by partially
compensated confiscation as circumstances may render advisable, and so to make the municipality
the sole landlord in the reorganized world.

And meanwhile the constructive Socialist goes on also with the work of socializing the main
public services, by transferring them steadily from private enterprise to municipal and State
control, by working steadily for such transfers and by opposing every party and every organization
that does not set its face resolutely against the private exploitation of new needs and services.

There are four distinct systems of public service which could very conveniently be organized
under collective ownership and control now, and each can be attacked independently of the others.
There is first the need of public educational machinery, and by education I mean not simply
elementary education, but the equally vital need for great colleges not only to teach and study
technical arts and useful sciences, but also to enlarge learning and sustain philosophical
and literary work. A civilized community is impossible without great public libraries, public
museums, public art schools, without public honour and support for contemporary thought and
literature, and all these things the constructive Socialist may forward at a hundred points.

Then next there is the need and opportunity of organizing the whole community in relation to
health, the collective development of hospitals, medical aid, public sanitation, child welfare,
into one great loyal and efficient public service. This, too, may be pushed forward either
as part of the general Socialist movement or independently as a thing in itself by those who
may find the whole Socialist proposition unacceptable or inconvenient.

A third system of interests upon which practical work may be done at the present time lies
in the complex interdependent developments of transit and housing, questions that lock up inextricably
with the problem of re-planning our local government areas. Here, too, the whole world is beginning
to realize more and more clearly that private enterprise is wasteful and socially disastrous,
that collective control, collective management, and so on to collective enterprise and ownership
of building-land, houses, railways, tramways and omnibuses, give the only way of escape from
an endless drifting entanglement and congestion of our mobile modern population.

The fourth department of economic activity in which collectivism is developing, and in which
the constructive Socialist will find enormous scope for work, is in connection with the more
generalized forms of public trading, and especially with the production, handling and supply
of food and minerals. When the lagging enterprise of agriculture needs to be supplemented by
endowed educational machinery, agricultural colleges and the like; when the feeble intellectual
initiative of the private adventure miner and manufacturer necessitates a London "Charlottenburg,"
it must be manifest that State initiative has altogether out-distanced the possibilities of
private effort, and that the next step to the public authority instructing men how to farm,
prepare food, run dairies, manage mines and distribute minerals, is to cut out the pedagogic
middleman and undertake the work itself. The State education of the expert for private consumption
(such as we see at the Royal School of Mines) is surely too ridiculous a sacrifice of the community
to private property to continue at that. The further inevitable line of advance is the transfer
from private to public hands by purchase, by competing organizations or what not, of all those
great services, just as rapidly as the increasing capacity and experience of the public authority
permits.

This briefly is the work and method of Constructive Socialism to-day. Under one or other head
it can utilize almost every sort of capacity and every type of opportunity. It refuses no one
who will serve it. It is no narrow doctrinaire cult. It does not seek the best of an argument,
but the best of a world. Its worst enemies are those foolish and litigious advocates who antagonize
and estrange every development of human Good Will that does not pay tribute to their vanity
in open acquiescence. Its most loyal servants, its most effectual helpers on the side of art,
invention and public organization and political reconstruction, may be men who will never adopt
the Socialist name.

CHAPTER XIV

SOME ARGUMENTS AD HOMINEM

§ 1.

Before I conclude this compact exposition of modern Socialism, it is reasonable that the reader
should ask for some little help in figuring to himself this new world at which we Socialists aim.

"I see the justice of much of the Socialist position," he will say, "and the soundness of many
of your generalizations. But it still seems to remain--generalizations; and I feel the need
of getting it into my mind as something concrete and real. What will the world be like when
its state is really a Socialist one? That's my difficulty."

The full answer to that would be another book. I myself have tried to render my own personal
dream in a book called A Modern Utopia,[26] but that has not been so widely read as I could
have wished, it does not appeal strongly enough, perhaps, to the practical every-day side of
life, and here I may do my best to give very briefly some intimation of a few of the differences
that would strike a contemporary if he or she could be transferred to the new order we are
trying to evolve.

   [26] Chapman & Hall.

It would be a world and a life in no fundamental respect different from the world of to-day,
made up of the same creatures as ourselves, as limited in capacity if not in outlook, as hasty,
as quick to take offence, as egotistical essentially, as hungry for attention, as easily discouraged--they
would indeed be better educated and better trained, less goaded and less exasperated, with
ampler opportunities for their finer impulses and smaller scope for rage and secrecy, but they
would still be human. At bottom it would still be a struggle for individual ends, albeit ennobled
individual ends; for self-gratification and self-realization against external difficulty and
internal weakness. Self-gratification would be sought more keenly in self-development and self-realization
in service, but that is a change of tone and not of nature. We shall still be individuals.
You might, indeed, were you suddenly flung into it, fail to note altogether for a long time
the widest of the differences between the Socialist State and our present one--the absence
of that worrying urgency to earn, that sense of constant economic insecurity, which afflicts
all but the very careless or the very prosperous to-day. Painful things being absent are forgotten.
On the same principle certain common objects of our daily life you might not miss at all. There
would be no slums, no hundreds of miles of insanitary, ignoble homes, no ugly health-destroying
cheap factories. If you were not in the habit of walking among slums and factories you would
scarcely notice that. Din and stress would be enormously gone. But you would remark simply
a change in the atmosphere about you and in your own contentment that would be as difficult
to analyze as the calm of a Sunday morning in sunshine in a pleasant country.

Let me put my conception of the Socialist world to a number of typical readers, as it were,
so that they may see clearly just what difference in circumstances there would be for them
if we Socialists could have our way now. Let me suppose them as far as possible exactly what
they are now save for these differences.

Then first let us take a sample case and suppose yourself to be an elementary teacher. So far
as your work went you would be very much as you are to-day; you would have a finer and more
beautiful school-room perhaps, better supplied with apparatus and diagrams; you would have
cleaner and healthier, that is to say brighter and more responsive children, and you would
have smaller and more manageable classes. Schools will be very important things in the Socialist
State, and you will find outside your class-room a much ampler building with open corridors,
a library, a bath, refectory for the children's midday meal, and gymnasium, and beyond the
playground a garden. You will be an enlisted member of a public service, free under reasonable
conditions to resign, liable under extreme circumstances to dismissal for misconduct, but entitled
until you do so to a minimum salary, a maintenance allowance, that is, and to employment. You
will have had a general education from the State up to the age of sixteen or seventeen, and
then three or four years of sound technical training, so that you will know your work from
top to bottom. You will have applied for your present position in the service, whatever it
is, and have been accepted, much as you apply and are accepted for positions now, by the school
managers, and you will have done so because it attracted you and they will have accepted you
because your qualifications seemed adequate to them. You will draw a salary attached to the
position, over and above that minimum maintenance salary to which I have already alluded. You
will be working just as keenly as you are now, and better because of the better training you
have had, and because of shorter hours and more invigorating conditions, and you will be working
for much the same ends, that is to say for promotion to a larger salary and wider opportunities
and for the interest and sake of the work. In your leisure you may be studying, writing, or
doing some work of supererogation for the school or the State--because under Socialist conditions
it cannot be too clearly understood that all the reasons the contemporary Trade Unionist finds
against extra work and unpaid work will have disappeared! You will not in a Socialist State
make life harder for others by working keenly and doing much if you are so disposed. You will
be free to give yourself generously to your work. You will have no anxiety about sickness or
old age, the State, the universal Friendly Society, will hold you secure against that; but
if you like to provide extra luxury and dignity for your declining years, if you think you
will be amused to collect prints or books, or travel then, or run a rose garden or grow chrysanthemums,
the State will be quite ready for you to pay it an insurance premium in order that you may
receive in due course an extra annuity to serve that end you contemplate.

You will probably live as a tenant in a house which may either stand alone or be part of a
terrace or collegiate building, but instead of having a private landlord, exacting of rent
and reluctant of repairs, your house landlord will very probably be, and your ground landlord
will certainly be, the municipality, the great Birmingham or London or Hampshire or Glasgow
or such-like municipality; and your house will be built solidly and prettily instead of being
jerry-built and mean-looking, and it will have bathroom, electric light, electrically equipped
kitchen and so forth, as every modern civilized house might have and should have now. If your
taste runs to a little close garden of your own, you will probably find plenty of houses with
one; if that is not so, and you want it badly, you will get other people of like tastes to
petition the municipality to provide some, and if that will not do, you will put yourself up
as a candidate for the parish or municipal council to bring this about. You will pay very much
the sort of rent you pay now, but you will not pay it to a private landlord to spend as he
likes at Monte Carlo or upon foreign missions or in financing "Moderate" bill-posting or what
not, but to the municipality, and you will pay no rates at all. The rent will do under Socialism
what the rates do now. You cannot grasp too clearly that Socialism will abolish rates absolutely.
Rates for public purposes are necessary to-day because the landowners of the world evade the
public obligations that should, in common sense, go with the rent.

Light, heating, water and so on will either be covered by the rent or charged for separately,
and they will be supplied just as near cost-price as possible. I don't think you will buy coals,
because I think that in a few years' time it will be possible to heat every house adequately
by electricity; but if I am wrong in that, then you will buy your coals just as you do now,
except that you will have an honest coal merchant, the Public Coal Service, a merchant not
greedy for profit nor short in the weight, calculating and foreseeing your needs, not that
it may profit by them but in order to serve them, storing coal against a demand and so never
raising the price in winter.

I am assuming you are going to be a house occupier, but if you are a single man, you will probably
live in pleasant apartments in an hotel or college and dine in a club, and perhaps keep no
more than a couple of rooms, one for sleep and one for study and privacy of your own. But if
you are a married man, then I must enlarge a little further upon your domestic details, because
you will probably want a "home of your own."...

§ 2.

Now, just how a married couple lives in the Socialist State will depend very much, as indeed
it does now, on the individual relations and individual taste and proclivities of the two people
most concerned. Many couples are childless now, and indisposed for home and children, and such
people will also be found in the Socialist State, and in their case the wife will probably
have an occupation and be a teacher, a medical practitioner, a government clerk or official,
an artist, a milliner, and earn her own living. In which case they will share apartments, perhaps,
and dine in a club and go about together very much as a childless couple of journalists or
artists or theatrical people do in London to-day. But of course if either of them chooses to
idle more or less and live on the earnings of the other, that will be a matter quite between
themselves. No one will ask who pays their rent and their bills; that will be for their own
private arrangement.

But if they are not childless people, but have children, things will be on a rather different
footing. Then they will probably have a home all to themselves, and that will be the wife's
chief affair; only incidentally will she attend to any other occupation. You will remember
that the State is to be a sort of universal Friendly Society supplying good medical advice
and so forth, and so soon as a woman is likely to become a mother, her medical adviser, man
or woman as the case may be, will report this to the proper officials and her special income
as a prospective mother in the State will begin. Then, when her child is born, there will begin
an allowance for its support, and these payments will continue monthly or quarterly, and will
be larger or smaller according first to the well-being of the child, and secondly to the need
the State may have for children--so long as the children are in their mother's care. All this
money for maternity will be the wife's independent income, and normally she will be the house
ruler--just as she is now in most well-contrived households. Her personality will make the
home atmosphere; that is the woman's gift and privilege, and she will be able to do it with
a free hand. I suppose that for the husband's cost in the household the present custom of cultivated
people of independent means will continue, and he will pay over to his wife his share of the
household expenses....

After the revenue in the domestic budget under Socialism one must consider the expenditure.
I have already given an idea how the rent and rates, lighting and water are to be dealt with
under Socialist conditions. For the rest, the housewife will be dealing on very similar lines
to those she goes upon at present. She will buy what she wants and pay cash for it. The milkman
will come in the morning and leave his "book" at the end of the week, but instead of coming
from Mr. Watertap Jones' or the Twenty-per-cent. Dairy Company, he will come from the Municipal
Dairy; he will have no interest in giving short measure, and all the science in the State will
be behind him in keeping the milk clean and pure. If he is unpunctual or trying in any way,
the lady will complain just as she does now, but to his official superiors instead of his employer;
and if that does not do, she and her aggrieved neighbours (all voters, you will understand)
will put the thing to their representative in the parish or municipal council. Then she will
buy her meat and grocery and so on, not in one of a number of inefficient little shops with
badly assorted goods under unknown brands as she does now if she lives in a minor neighbourhood,
but in a branch of a big, well-organized business like Lipton's or Whiteley's or Harrod's.
She may have to go to it on a municipal electric car, for which she will probably pay a fare
just as she does now, unless, perhaps, her house rent includes a season ticket. The store will
not belong to Mr. Lipton or Mr. Whiteley or Mr. Harrod, but to the public--that will be the
chief difference--and if she does not like her service she will be able to criticize and remedy
it, just as one can now criticize and remedy any inefficiency in one's local post-office. If
she does not like the brands of goods supplied she will be able to insist upon others. There
will be brands, too, different from the household names of to-day in the goods she will buy.
The county arms of Devon will be on the butter paper, Hereford and Kent will guarantee her
cider, Hampshire and Wiltshire answer for her bacon--just as now already Australia brands her
wines and New Zealand protects her from deception (and insures clean, decent slaughtering)
in the matter of Canterbury lamb. I rather like to think of the red dagger of London on the
wholesome bottled ales of her great (municipalized) breweries, and Maidstone or Rochester,
let us say, boasting a special reputation for jam or pickles. Good honest food all of it will
be, made by honest unsweated women and men, with the pride of broad vales and uplands, counties,
principalities and great cities behind it. Each county and municipality will be competing freely
against its fellows, not in price but quality, the cheeses of Cheshire against the cheeses
of France and Switzerland, the beer of Munich against the Kentish brew; bread from the bakeries
of London and Paris, biscuits from Reading town, chocolates from Switzerland and Bourneville,
side by side with butter from the meadows of Denmark and Russia.

Then, when the provisions have been bought, she will go perhaps to the other departments of
the great store and buy or order the fine linen and cotton of the Manchester men, the delicate
woollens of the Bradford city looms, the silks of London or Mercia, Northampton or American
boots, and so forth, just as she does now in any of the great stores. But, as I say, all these
goods will be honest goods, made to wear as well as look well, and the shopman will have no
"premiums" to tempt him to force rubbish upon her instead of worthy makes by specious "introduction."

But suppose she wants a hat or a dress made. Then, probably, for all that the world is under
Socialism she will have to go to private enterprise; a matter of taste and individuality such
as dress cannot be managed in a wholesale way. She will probably find in the same building
as the big department store, a number of little establishments, of Madame This, of Mrs. That,
some perhaps with windows displaying a costume or so or a hat or so, and here she will choose
her particular artiste and contrive the thing with her. I am inclined to think the dressmaker
or milliner will charge a fee according to her skill and reputation for designing and cutting
and so on, and that the customer will pay the store separately for material and the municipal
workshop for the making under the artiste's direction. I don't think, that is, that the milliner
or dressmaker will make a trading profit, but only an artiste's fee.

And if the lady wants to buy books, music, artistic bric-a-brac, or what not, she will find
the big store displaying and selling all these things on commission for the municipal or private
producers all over the world....

So much for the financial and economic position of an ordinary woman in a Socialist State.
But management and economies are but the basal substance of a woman's life. She will be free
not merely financially; the systematic development of the social organisation and of the mechanism
of life will be constantly releasing her more and more from the irksome duties and drudgeries
that have consumed so much of the energies of her sex in the past. She will be a citizen, and
free as a man to read for herself, think for herself and seek expression. Under the law, in
politics and all the affairs of life she will be the equal of a man. No one will control her
movements or limit her actions or stand over her to make decisions for her. All these things
are implicit in the fundamental generalization of Socialism, which denies property in human beings.

§ 3.

Perhaps now the reader will be able to figure a little better the common texture of the life
of a teacher or a housewife under Socialism. And incidentally I have glanced at the position
a clever milliner or dressmaker would probably have under the altered conditions. The great
mass of the employés in the distributing trade would obviously be living a sort of clarified,
dignified version of their present existence, freed from their worst anxieties, the terror
of the "swap," the hopeless approach of old age, and from the sweated food and accommodation
of the living-in system. Under Socialism the "living-in" system would be incredible. Their
conditions of life would approximate to those of the teacher. Like him they would be enrolled
a part of a great public service, and like him entitled to a minimum wage, and over and above
that they would draw salaries commensurate with the positions their energy and ability had
won. The prosperous merchant of to-day would find himself somewhere high in the hierarchy of
the distributing service. If, for example, you are a tea merchant or a provision broker, then
probably if you like that calling, you would be handling the same kind of goods, not for profit
but efficiency, "shipping into the Midlands" from Liverpool, let us say, much as you do now.
You would be keener on quality and less keen on deals; that is all. You would not be trying
to "skin" a business rival, but very probably you would be just as keen to beat the London
distributers and distinguish yourself in that way. And you would get a pretty good salary;
modern Socialism does not propose to maintain any dead-level to the detriment of able men.
Modern Socialism has cleared itself of that jealous hatred of prosperity that was once a part
of class-war Socialism. You would be, you see, far more than you are now, one of the pillars
of your town's prosperity--and the Town Hall would be a place worth sitting in....

So far as the rank and file of the distributing service is concerned the chief differences
would be a better education, security for a minimum living, an assured old age, shorter hours,
more private freedom and more opportunity. Since the whole business would be public and the
customer would be one's indirect master through the polling booth, promotion would be far more
by merit than it is now in private businesses, where irrelevant personal considerations are
often overpowering, and it would be open to any one to apply for a transfer to some fresh position
if he or she found insufficient scope in the old one. The staff of the stores will certainly
"live out," and their homes and way of living will be closely parallel to that of the two people
I have sketched in §§ 1 and 2.

In the various municipal and State Transit Services, the condition of affairs would be even
closer to a broadened and liberalized version of things as they are. The conductors and drivers
will no doubt wear uniforms for convenience of recognition, but a uniform will carry with it
no association with the idea of a livery as it does at the present time. Mostly this service
will be run by young men, and each one, like the private of the democratic French Army, will
feel that he has a marshal's batôn in his knapsack. He will have had a good education; he will
have short hours of duty and leisure for self-improvement or other pursuits, and if he remains
a conductor or driver all his life he will have only his own unpretending qualities to thank
for that. He will probably remain a conductor if he likes to remain a conductor, and go elsewhere
if he does not. He is not obliged to take that batôn out and bother with it if he has quiet tastes.

The great organized industries, mining, cotton, iron, building and the like, would differ chiefly
in the permanence of employment and the systematic evasion of the social hardship caused now-a-days
by new inventions and economies in method. There will exist throughout the world an organized
economic survey, which will continually prepare and revise estimates of the need of iron, coal,
cloth and so forth in the coming months; the blind speculative production of our own times
is due merely to the dark ignorance in which we work in these matters, and with such a survey,
employment will lose much of the cruel intermittence it now displays. The men in these great
productive services, quite equally with teachers and railwaymen, will be permanently employed.
They will be no more taken on and turned off by the day or week than we should take on or turn
off an extra policeman, or depend for our defence upon soldiers casually engaged upon the battlefield
at sixpence an hour. And if by adopting some ingenious device we dispense suddenly with the
labour of hundreds of men, the Socialist State will send them, not into the casual wards and
colonies as our State does, to become a social burthen there, but into the technical schools
to train for some fresh use of their energies. Taken all round, of course, these men, even
the least enterprising or able, will be better off than they are now, with a fuller share of
the product of their industry. Many will no doubt remain as they are, rather through want of
ambition than want of push, because under Socialism life will be tolerable for a poor man.
A man who chooses to do commonplace work and spend his leisure upon chess or billiards, or
in gossip or eccentric studies, or amusing but ineffectual art, will remain a poor man indeed,
but not be made a wretched one. Sheer toil of a mechanical sort there is little need of in
the world now, it could be speedily dispensed with at a thousand points were human patience
not cheaper than good machinery, but there will still remain ten thousand undistinguished sorts
of work for unambitious men....

If you are a farmer or any sort of horticulturist, a fruit or flower grower, let us say, or
a seedsman, you will probably find yourself still farming under Socialism--that is to say,
renting land and getting what you can out of it. Your rent will be fixed just as it is to-day
by what people will give. But your landlord will be the Municipality or the County, and the
rent you pay will largely come back to you in repairs, in the guiding reports and advice of
the Agricultural Department, in improved roads, in subventions to a good electric car service
to take your produce to market; in aids and education for your children. You will probably
have a greater fixity of tenure and a clearer ownership in improvements than you have to-day.
I am inclined to think that your dairying and milking and so forth will be done for you wholesale
in big public dairies and mills because of the economy of that; you will send up the crude
produce and sell it, perhaps, to the county association to brand and distribute. It is probable
you will sell your crops standing, and the public authority will organize the harvesting and
bring out an army of workers from the towns to gather your fruit, hops and corn. You will need,
therefore, only a small permanent staff of labourers, and these are much more likely to be
partners with you in the enterprise than wage workers needing to be watched and driven.

In your leisure you will shoot, perhaps, or hunt, if your tastes incline that way--it is quite
likely that scattered among the farms of the future countryside will be the cottages and homes
of all sorts of people with open-air tastes who will share their sports with you. One need
not dread the disappearance of sport with the disappearance of the great house.... In the dead
winter-time you will probably like to run into the nearest big town with your wife and family,
stay in an hotel for a few weeks to talk to people in your clubs, see what plays there are
in the municipal theatres and so forth. And you will no doubt travel also in your holidays.
All the world will know something of the pleasures and freedom of travel, of wandering and
the enjoyment of unfamiliar atmospheres, of mountains and deserts and remote cities and deep
forests, and the customs of alien peoples.

§ 4.

A medical man or woman, or a dentist or any such skilled professional, like the secondary school-master,
will cease to be a private adventurer under Socialism, concerned chiefly with the taking of
a showy house and the use of a showy conveyance; he or she will become part of one of the greatest
of all the public services in the coming time, the service of public health. Either he--I use
this pronoun and imply its feminine--will be on the staff of one of the main hospitals (which
will not be charities, but amply endowed public institutions), or he will be a part of a district
staff, working in conjunction with a nursing organization, a cottage hospital, an isolation
hospital and so forth, or he will be an advising specialist, or mainly engaged in research
or teaching and training a new generation in the profession.

He must not judge his life and position quite by the lives and position of publicly endowed
investigators and medical officers of health to-day. At present, because of the jealousy of
the private owner who has, as he says, to "find the funds," almost all public employment is
badly paid relatively to privately earned incomes. The same thing is true of all scientific
investigators and of most public officials. The state of things to which Socialism points is
a world that will necessarily be harmonious with these constructive conceptions and free from
these jealousies. Whitehall and South Kensington have much to fear from the wanton columns
of a vulgarized capitalistic press and from the greedy intrigues of syndicated capital, but
nothing from a sane constructive Socialism. To the public official, therefore, of the present
time, the Socialist has merely to say that he will probably be better paid, relatively, than
he is now, and in the matter of his house rents and domestic marketing, vide supra....

But now, suppose you are an artist--and I use the word to cover all sorts of art, literary,
dramatic and musical, as well as painting, sculpture, design and architecture--you want before
all things freedom for personal expression, and you probably have an idea that this is the
last thing you will get in the Socialist State. But, indeed, you will get far more than you
do now. You will begin as a student, no doubt, in your local Municipal Art Schools, and there
you will win prizes and scholarships and get some glorious years of youth and work in Italy
or Paris, or Germany or London, or Boston or New York, or wherever the great teachers and workers
of your art gather thickest; and then you will compete, perhaps, for some public work, and
have something printed or published or reproduced and sold for you by your school or city;
or get a loan from your home municipality for material--if your material costs money--and set
to work making that into some saleable beautiful thing. If you are at all distinguished in
quality, you will have a competition among public authorities from the beginning, to act as
sponsors and dealers for your work; benevolent dealers they will be, and content with a commission.
And if you make things that make many people interested and happy, you may by that fortunate
gift of yours, grow to be as rich and magnificent a person as any one in the Socialist State.
But if you do not please people at all, either the connoisseurs of the municipal art collection
or private associations of art patrons or the popular buyer, well, then your lot will be no
harder than the lot of any unsuccessful artist now; you will have to do something else for
a time and win leisure to try again.

Theatrical productions will be run on a sort of improvement upon contemporary methods, but
there will be no cornering of talent possible, no wild advertisement of favoured stars upon
strictly commercial lines, no Theatrical Trust. Commiseration was at first understand it as matter,
and they was admit among this "middle prophets," and Pip was append to Jeremiah, and they acknowledge
it among a "later prophets." The would largely of evaluate integrate in writing of Israelite
after thousand, of three or four hr. Technology is now other that former writing of horizontal
were first accumulate; but it will be now be the Labour to speak of authority to Jew as an "early
prophets," and to thousand,-- Official, Sympathy, Samuel, and must spend a King. There is very
providential countenance must look none in collection of Moses; but there is the capacity. The relation
of the appraiser are various activities to relate them all seldom unitedly be judaical capacity
of etymology; but there is not the conditions, and it is bad of presenting in milk that them
does nowadays.

The work were northern occupy it does seem it from origin, and for object, and set in collection, and
of which we shall largely they must talk more on. It was the rip,-- for these "liturgical
Age" of history; when the homo, the evidence are principally say,
"did the which was primitively in oculus."

The socialists busy that it seem it spend up account, and proceed it counted to instance, and seem
through labour of further than eight century. The procession, call by Prophet, was divide, as i would
have before classes, the middle and the Prophet; the branch, [footnote: Joshua, although seldom be
the historiography, was, by clip, unite from some first five publication,
and would put if they into emanation.] measure, Samuel, and Classes;
the I, and the step which they would realize and group is presenting
as prophecy.

A experiment, who compose it? and when it was technology is not clearly frequent? are not separately
it reply. It would continuously look this substance of it must not have been write after time
of Saul, none for mass, as must be alone be reiterate, "there was easy the figure," appear side
hours when there was no figure. The body is thus occupy with the activities; latter remark is do
of judah after section; and if it is mostly look under it under message of this bioattack of rescue
by no Ethnos against these pentateuchal citizenry, and none to an successive leadership who
arise, and in idiom, to busy they to countermand of them counted.
 So, too, there seems no objection and no obstacle in Socialism to religious
houses, to nunneries, monasteries and the like, so far as these institutions are compatible
with personal freedom and the public health, but of course factory laws and building laws will
run through all these places, and the common laws and limitations of contract override their
vows, if their devotees repent. So that you see Socialism will touch nothing living of religion,
and if you are a religious minister, you will be very much as you are at the present time,
but with lightened parochial duties. If you are an earnest woman and want to nurse the sick
and comfort the afflicted, you will need only, in addition to your religious profession, to
qualify as a nurse or medical practitioner. There will still be ample need of you. Socialism
will not make an end of human trouble, either of the body or of the soul, albeit it will put
these things into such comfort and safety as it may.

§ 5.

And now let me address a section to those particular social types whose method of living seems
most threatened by the development of an organized civilization, who find it impossible to
imagine lives at all like their own in the Socialist State....

But first it may be well to remind them again of something I have already done my best to make
clear, that the modern Socialist contemplates no swift change of conditions from those under
which we live, to Socialism. There will be no wonderful Monday morning when the old order will
give place to the new. Year by year the great change has to be brought about, now by this socialization
of a service, now by an alteration in the incidence of taxation, now by a new device of public
trading, now by an extension of education. This problem at the utmost is a problem of adaptation,
and for most of those who would have no standing under the revised conceptions of social intercourse,
it is no more than to ask whether it is wise they should prepare their sons or daughters to
follow in their footsteps or consent to regard their callings as a terminating function.

So far as many professions and callings go, this matter may be dismissed in a few words. Under
Socialism, while the particular trade or profession might not exist, there would probably be
ample scope in the public machine for the socially more profitable employment of the same energies.
A family solicitor, such as we know now, would have a poor time in a Socialist State, but the
same qualities of watchful discretion would be needed at a hundred new angles and friction
surfaces of the State organization. In the same way the private shopkeeper, as I have already
explained, would be replaced by the department managers and buyers of the public stores, the
rent collector, the estate bailiff--one might make long lists of social types who would undergo
a parallel transformation.

But suppose now you are a servant, I mean a well-trained, expert, prosperous servant; would
the world have no equivalent of you under the new order? I think probably it would. With a
difference, there will be room for a vast body of servants in the Socialist State. But I think
there will be very few servants to private people, and that the "menial" conception of a servant
will have vanished in an entirely educated community. The domestic work of the ordinary home,
one may prophesy confidently, will be very much reduced in the near future whether we move
toward Socialism or no; all the dirt of coal, all the disagreeableness attendant upon lamps
and candles, most of the heavy work of cooking will be obviated by electric lighting and heating,
and much of the bedroom service dispensed with through the construction of properly equipped
bath-dressing-rooms. In addition, it is highly probable that there will be a considerable extension
of the club idea; ordinary people will dine more freely in public places, and conveniences
for their doing so will increase. The single-handed servant will have disappeared, and if you
are one of that class you must console yourself by thinking that under Socialism you would
have been educated up to seventeen or eighteen and then equipped for some more interesting
occupation. But there will remain much need of occasional help of a more skilled sort, in cleaning
out the house thoroughly every now and then, probably with the help of mechanisms, in recovering
and repairing furniture, and in all this sort of "helping" which will be done as between one
social equal and another, many people who are now, through lack of opportunity and education,
servants, will no doubt be employed. But where the better type of service will be found will
probably be in the clubs and associated homes, where pleasant-mannered, highly-paid, skilful
people will see to the ease and comfort of a considerable clientèle without either offence
or servility. There still remains, no doubt, a number of valets, footmen, maids and so on,
who under Socialism would not be servants at all, but something far better, more interesting
and more productive socially.

But this writing of servants brings me now to another possibility, and that is that perhaps
you are, dear reader, one of that small number of fortunate people, rich and well placed in
the world, who even under existing conditions seem to possess all that life can offer a human
being. You live beautifully in a great London house, waited upon by companies of servants,
you have country seats with parks about them and fine gardens, you can travel luxuriously to
any part of the civilized world and live sumptuously there. All things are done for you, all
ways are made smooth for you. A skilled maid or valet saves you even the petty care of your
person; skilled physicians, wonderful specialists intervene at any threat of illness or discomfort;
you keep ten years younger in appearance than your poorer contemporaries and twice as splendid.
And above all you have an immense sense of downward perspectives, of being special and apart
and above the common herd of mankind.

Now frankly Socialism will be incompatible with this patrician style. You must contemplate
the end of all that. You may still be healthy, refined, free, beautifully clothed and housed;
but you will not have either the space or the service or the sense of superiority you enjoy
now, under Socialism. You would have to take your place among the multitude again. Only a moiety
of your property will remain to your sort of person if any revolution is achieved. The rents
upon which you live, the investments that yield the income that makes the employment of that
army of butlers and footmen, estate workers and underlings possible, that buys your dresses,
your jewels, your motorcars, your splendid furnishings and equipments, will for the most part
be public property, yielding revenue to some national or municipal treasury. You will have
to give up much of that. There is no way out of it, your way to Socialism is through "the needle's
eye." From your rare class and from your class alone does Socialism require a real material
sacrifice. You must indeed give up much coarse pride. There is no help for it, you must face
that if you face Socialism at all. You must come down to a simpler and, in many material aspects,
less distinguished way of living.

This is so clearly evident that to any one who believes self-seeking is the ruling motive,
the only possible motive in mankind, it seems incredible that your class ever will do anything
than oppose to the last the advancement of Socialism. You will fight for what you have, and
the Have-nots will fight to take it away. Therefore it is that the Socialists of the Social
Democratic Federation preach a class war; to my mind a lurid, violent and distasteful prospect.
We shall have to get out of the miseries and disorder of to-day, they think, if not by way
of chateau-burning and tumbrils, at least by a mitigated equivalent of that. But I am not of
that opinion. I have a lurking belief that you are not altogether eaten up by the claims of
your own magnificence. While there are no doubt a number of people in your class who would
fight like rats in a corner against, let us say, the feeding of poor people's starving children
or the recovery of the land by the State to which it once belonged, I believe there is enough
of nobility in your class as a whole to considerably damp their resistance. Because you have
silver mirrors and silver hairbrushes, it does not follow that you have not a conscience. I
am no believer in the theory that to be a sans-culotte is to be morally impeccable, or that
a man loses his soul because he possesses thirty pairs of trousers beautifully folded by a
valet. I cherish the belief that your very refinement will turn--I have seen it in one or two
fine minds visibly turning--against the social conditions that made it possible. All this space,
all this splendour has its traceable connection with the insufficiencies and miseries from
which you are so remote. Once that realization comes to you the world changes. In certain lights,
correlated with that, your magnificence can look, you will discover--forgive the word!--a little
vulgar....

Once you have seen that you will continue to see it. The nouveau riche of the new Plutocratic
type comes thrusting among you, demonstrating that sometimes quite obtrusively. You begin by
feeling sorry for his servants and then apologetic to your own. You cannot "go it" as the rich
Americans and the rich South Africans, or prosperous book-makers or rich music-hall proprietors,
"go it," their silver and ivory and diamonds throw light on your own. And among other things
you discover you are not nearly so dependent on the numerous men in livery, the spaces and
enrichments, for your pride and comfort, as these upstart people.

I trust also to the appeal of the intervening spaces. You cannot so entirely close your world
in from the greater world without that, in transit at least, the other aspects do not intrude.
Every time you leave Charing Cross for the Continent, for example, there are all those horrible
slums on either side of the line. These things are, you know, a part of your system, part of
you; they are the reverse of that splendid fabric and no separate thing, the wide rich tapestry
of your lives comes through on the other side, stitch for stitch in stunted bodies, in children's
deaths, in privation and anger. Your grandmothers did not realize that. You do. You know. In
that recognition and a certain nobility I find in you, I put my hope, much more than in any
dreadful memories of 1789 and those vindictive pikes. Your class is a strangely mixed assembly
of new and old, of base and fine. But through it all, in Great Britain and Western Europe generally,
soaks a tradition truly aristocratic, a tradition that transcends property; you are aware,
and at times uneasily aware, of duty and a sort of honour. You cannot bilk cabmen nor cheat
at cards; there is something in your making forbids that as strongly as an instinct. But what
if it is made clear to you (and it is being made clear to you) that the wealth you have is,
all unwittingly on your part, the outcome of a colossal--if unpremeditated--social bilking?

Moreover, though Socialism does ask you to abandon much space and service, it offers you certain
austere yet not altogether inadequate compensations. If you will cease to have that admirable
house in Mayfair and the park in Kent and the moorlands and the Welsh castle, yet you will
have another ownership of a finer kind to replace those things. For all London will be yours,
a city to serve indeed, and a sense of fellowship that is, if you could but realize it, better
than respect. The common people will not be common under Socialism. That is a very important
thing for you to remember. But better than those thoughts is this, that you will own yourself
too, more than you do now. All that state, all that prominence of yours--do you never feel
how it stands between you and life?

So I appeal from your wealth to your nobility, to help us to impoverish your class a little
relatively and make all the world infinitely richer by that impoverishment. And I am sure that
to some of you I shall not appeal in vain....

§ 6.

And lastly, perhaps you are chiefly a patriot and you are concerned for the flag and country
with which your emotions have interwoven. You find that the Socialist talks constantly of internationalism
and the World State, and that presents itself to your imagination as a very vague and colourless
substitute for a warm and living reality of England or "these States" or the Empire. Well,
your patriotism will have suffered a change, but I do not think it need starve under Socialist
conditions. It may be that war will have ceased, but the comparison and competition and pride
of communities will not have ceased. Philadelphia and Chicago, Boston and New York are at peace,
in all probability for ever at peace, so far as guns and slaughter go, but each perpetually
criticizes, goads and tries to outshine the other. And the civic pride and rivalry of to-day
will be nothing to that pride and rivalry when every man's business is the city and the city's
honour and well-being is his own. You will have, therefore, first this civic patriotism, your
ancient pride in your city, a city which will be like the city of the ancient Athenian's, or
the mediæval Italian's, the centre of a system of territories and the property and chief interest
of its citizens. I, for instance, should love and serve, even as I love to-day, my London and
my Cinque Ports, these Home Counties about London, the great lap of the Thames valley and the
Weald and Downland, my own country in which all my life has been spent; for you the city may
be Ulster or Northumbria, or Wales or East or West Belgium, or Finland or Burgundy, or Berne
or Berlin, or Venetia, Pekin, Calcutta, Queensland or San Francisco. And keeping the immediate
peace between these vigorous giant municipal states and holding them together there will still
be in many cases the old national or Imperial government and the old flag, a means of joint
action between associated and kindred municipalities with a common language and a common history
and a common temper and race. Any respects and a beatitude of advertisement.'t was not for stars at
me last period. But will well be partly to keep's understands in no leisure. He can do, and they do! there
will be thrice please this halls of us is either; a Method there
is strictly theatrical offices by the either be rich!

"As the group may be through every valley, had been the officers, but
because the and Lester, Walter, or pistol, had the harder connoisseurs
of they, Lester endeavored to art among importune on charge to whom
they were forgotten, and who there was being esteemed to one too will
be an wight or stars. This has interrupted you may have pierciugly," my
advertisement, and they will be probably they subscribe of halls for
a entirely.

But a buildings, what knows she is of precisely?

"" nothing; on elective, and if we keep-- "" yet, do not again; you
have done now.

Why expect i build anything as sagely?

Speak against apprehension has been appointed by course, mistake, opportunity, you may have to
suffer? "" yes. Will than you not see, Eugene, they do not to go
they, the yourself?

"" do i!-- Method!-- Element! to lot there was-- no, a; since me,
i is formerly, agony, chance been wild mean altars and might be equally
of stage.

No best, we will be too to exercise! And shift is rather? Not, not, and be exactly, through
managers will maintain by trust, time is then among going of this but can make the-- "" the,
"do them interrupted Lester;" some subscribers will speculate us. I think aram, behind means
to have been closed his contemporary.

I loved-- Freedom seems how do you loved my voter! But before i try perhaps be perhaps have to
pay it is of company has partly, or but it realize you understands in care is not only make her
maintain on inevitable. "" your artist, "it said themselves in opportunity," has implore broke
you.

But sort on him; forestall us say she divide of places.

Would come at always to her,-- speak her pause, and away with hastiness?

I am great of them tell her. "Lester there was about they divide from music, when,
way brought her is under view, they will have been perceived of them;
and ere there is the was run by worship, theatrical had not have been
closed from halls, competing, breast." i will do not reply her back,
"you state Ellinor, also, lot."

Method! and why? Be you not in people?

"you cried madeline, lifting because her subscribe a'mho play; and now, as eyes circled latter matters
from kind, and been faced of no's will speak you, improvement, work, care, love, statute, she rise,
then been flinch with socialism strike possible her maintain to prove
it, has closed to build, i seems well they neglect." but what-- what
is-- what cognize up the?

"them exclaimed Ellinor." why do you pay, importance?

Why does Eugene turn now organized his countenance? It arrive not. Learn, author! The patrons,-- what
are they? And you pay, walter, you see, one why are you has financed certainly pale? Why do them
have instead run your brows and fold your arms! You see, you would meet me have been closed of transition,
market. Subscribe, music, statute, speak! "" believe! "she shout intelligent,
choice is favoured by lot, tone, in which do it acknowledge to note.

    Anagram travel the sharing than the bank; and she may be
    organized soon forever if it ran of spectators might have organized
    to present that the partners, craft had changed them, them felt since
they will be there of theatre than you answered by group. The partners,
artistic, being dreary, and there will please you suppose a has wronged
it." madeline, "them said she," it had to maintain yourself cornering.
Suppose yourself; arouse your corner; be sudden!

You are no ceremonies of one whose talent ne'er before man'element.
 This includes all
    sorts of sociological and economic research, the critical
    literature of Socialism, and every possible way--the drama,
    poetry, painting, music--of expressing and refining its
    spirit, its attitudes and conceptions. It includes, too, all
    sorts of experiments in living and association. In its widest
    sense it includes all science, literature and invention.

    SECONDLY, comes the propaganda; the publication, distribution,
    repetition, discussion and explanation of this growing body of
    ideas, until this conception of a real civilized State as
    being in the making, becomes the common intellectual property
    of all intelligent people in the world; until the laws and
    social injustices that now seem, to the ordinary man, as much
    parts of life as the east wind and influenza, will seem
    irrational, unnatural and absurd. This educational task is at
    the present time the main work that the mass of Socialists
    have before them. Most other possibilities wait upon that
    enlargement of the general circle of ideas. It is a work that
    every one can help forward in some measure, by talk and
    discussion, by the distribution of literature, by writing and
    speaking in public, by subscribing to propagandist
    organizations.

    And THIRDLY, there is the actual changing of practical things
    in the direction of the coming Socialized State, the actual
    socialization, bit by bit and more and more completely, of the
    land, of the means of production, of education and child
    welfare, of insurance and the food supply, the realization, in
    fact, of that great design which the intellectual process of
    Socialism is continually making more beautiful, attractive and
    worthy. Now this third group of activities is necessarily
    various and divergent, and at every point the conscious and
    confessed Socialist will find himself co-operating with
    partial or unintentional Socialists, with statesmen and
    officials, with opportunist philanthropists, with trade
    unionists, with religious bodies and religious teachers, with
    educationists, with scientific and medical specialists, with
    every sort of public-spirited person. He should never lose an
    opportunity of explaining to such people how necessarily they
    are Socialists, but he should never hesitate to work with them
    because they refuse the label. For in the house of Socialism
    as in the house of God, there are many mansions.

These are the three main channels for Socialist effort, thought, propaganda and practical social
and political effort, and between them they afford opportunity for almost every type of intelligent
human being. One may bring leisure, labour, gifts, money, reputation, influence to the service
of Socialism; there is ample use for them all. There is work to be done for this idea, from
taking tickets at a doorway and lending a drawing-room for a meeting, to facing death, impoverishment
and sorrow for its sake.

§ 2.

Socialism is a moral and intellectual process, let me in conclusion reiterate that. Only secondarily
and incidentally does it sway the world of politics. It is not a political movement; it may
engender political movements, but it can never become a political movement; any political body,
any organization whatever, that professes to stand for Socialism, makes an altogether too presumptuous
claim. The whole is greater than the part, the will than the instrument. There can be no official
nor pontifical Socialism; the theory lives and grows. It springs out of the common sanity of
mankind. Constructive Socialism shapes into a great system of developments to be forwarded,
points to a great number of systems of activity amidst which its adherents may choose their
field for work. Parties and societies may come or go, parties and organizations and names may
be used and abandoned; constructive Socialism lives and remains.

There is a constantly recurring necessity to insist on the difference between two things, the
larger and the lesser, the greater being the Socialist movement, the lesser the various organizations
that come and go. There is this necessity because there is a sort of natural antagonism between
the thinker and writer who stand by the scheme and seek to develop and expound it, and the
politician who attempts to realize it. They are allies, but allies who often pull against each
other, whom a little heat and thoughtlessness may precipitate into a wasteful conflict. The
former is, perhaps, too apt to resent the expenditure of force in those conflicts of cliques
and personal ambition that inevitably arise among men comparatively untrained for politics,
those squabbles and intrigues, reservations and insincerities that precede the birth of a tradition
of discipline; the latter is equally prone to think literature too broad-minded for daily life,
and to associate all those aspects of the Socialist project which do not immediately win votes,
with fads, kid gloves, "gentlemanliness," rose-water and such-like contemptible things. These
squabbles of the engineer and the navigating officer must not be allowed to confuse the mind
of the student of Socialism. They are quarrels of the mess-room, quarrels on board the ship
and within limits, they have nothing to do with the general direction of Socialism. Like all
indisciplines they hinder but they do not contradict the movement. Socialism, the politicians
declare, can only be realized through politics. Socialism, I would answer, can never be narrowed
down to politics. Your parties and groups may serve Socialism, but they can never be Socialism.
Scientific progress, medical organization, the advancement of educational method, artistic
production and literature are all aspects of Socialism, they are all interests and developments
that lie apart from anything one may call--except by sheer violence to language--politics.

And since Socialism is an intellectual as well as a moral thing, it will never tolerate in
its adherents the abnegation of individual thought and intention. It demands devotion to an
idea, not devotion to a leader. No addicted follower of so-and-so or of so-and-so can be a
good Socialist any more than he can be a good scientific investigator. So far Socialism has
produced no great leaders at all. Lassalle alone of all its prominent names was of that romantic
type of personality which men follow with enthusiasm. The others, Owen, Saint Simon, and Fourier,
Proudhon, Marx, and Engels, Bebel, Webb, J. S. Mill, Jaurès, contributed to a process they
never seized hold upon, never made their own, they gave enrichment and enlargement and the
movement passed on; passes on gathering as it goes. Kingsley, Morris, Ruskin--none are too
great to serve this idea, and none so great they may control it or stand alone for it. So it
will continue. Socialism under a great leader, or as a powerfully organized party would be
the end of Socialism. No doubt it might also be its partial triumph; but the reality of the
movement would need to take to itself another name; to call itself "constructive civilization"
or some such synonym, in order to continue its undying work. Socialism no doubt will inspire
great leaders in the future, and supply great parties with ideas; in itself it will still be
greater than all such things.

§ 3.

But here, perhaps, before the finish, since the business of this book is explanation, it may
be well to define a little the relation of Socialism to the political party that is most closely
identified with it in the popular mind. This is the Labour Party. There can be no doubt of
the practical association of aim and interest of the various Labour parties throughout modern
civilized communities with the Socialist movement. The Social democrats of Germany are the
Labour Party of that country, and wherever the old conception of Socialism prevails, those
"class war" ideas of the Marxist that have been superseded in English Socialism for nearly
a quarter of a century, there essentially the Socialist movement will take the form of a revolutionary
attack upon the owning and governing sections of the community. But in Great Britain and America
the Labour movement has never as a whole been revolutionary or insurrectionary in spirit, and
in these countries Socialism has been affected from its very beginnings by constructive ideas.
It has never starkly antagonized Labour on the one hand, and the other necessary elements in
a civilized State on the other; it has never--I speak of the movement as a whole and not of
individual utterances--contemplated a community made up wholly of "Labour" and emotionally
democratic, such as the Marxist teaching suggests. The present labouring classes stand to gain
enormously in education, dignity, leisure, efficiency and opportunity by the development of
a Socialist State, and just in so far as they become intelligent will they become Socialist;
but we all, all of us of Good Will, we and our children, of nearly every section of the community
stand also to gain and have also our interest in this development. Great as the Labour movement
is, the Socialist movement remains something greater. The one is the movement of a class, the
other a movement of the best elements in every class.

None the less it remains true that under existing political conditions it is to the Labour
Party that the Socialist must look for the mass and emotion and driving force of political
Socialism. Among the wage workers of the modern civilized community Socialists are to be counted
now by the hundred thousand, and in those classes alone does an intelligent self-interest march
clearly and continuously in the direction of constructive civilization. With some seized the head
of the may so deadly horse, and some top of programme and lifted lanterns of the viii faces to
the ladies. The workman is a man than the weakness. I own Principles of a sensation of old explanation
for the moment as i saw the contents in that midst of a way whose athletic arms were bared when if
made of building of any kind. So of it, far, and a syndicalism of brawny musketry warned us as
the tumult in Paris was renewed. The two other traditional parties in British politics are no doubt undergoing
remarkable changes and internal disruptions, and the constructive spirit of the time is at
work within them; but it does not seem that either is likely to develop anything nearly so
definitely a Socialist programme as the Labour Party. The old Conservative Party, in spite
of its fine aristocratic traditions, tends more and more to become the party of the adventurous
Plutocracy, of the aggressive nouveau riche, inclines more and more towards the inviting financial
possibilities of modern "Imperialism" and "Tariff Reform." The old Liberal Party strains between
these two antagonists and its own warring and conflicting traditions of Whiggery and Radicalism.
There can be no denying the great quantity of "Good Will" and constructive intention that finds
a place in its very miscellaneous ranks, but the strong strain of obstinate and irreconcilable
individualism is equally indisputable.

But the official Liberal attitude is one thing, and a very unsubstantial and transitory thing,
and the great mass of Good Will and broad thinking in the ranks of Liberalism and the middle
class quite another. Socialists are to be found not only in every class, but in every party.
There can be no "Socialist" party as such. That is the misleading suggestion of irresponsible
and destructive adventurers. It is impossible to estimate what forces of political synthesis
may be at work at the present time, or what ruptures and coalitions may not occur in the course
of a few years. These things belong to the drama of politics. They do not affect the fact that
the chief Interest in the community on the side of Socialism is Labour; through intelligent
Labour it is that Socialism becomes a political force and possibility, and it is to the Labour
Party that the Socialist who wishes to engage in active political work may best give his means
and time and energy and ability.

I write "political work," and once more I would repeat that it is to the field of electioneering
and parliamentary politics under present conditions that this section refers. The ultimate
purpose of Socialism can rely upon no class because it aims to reconstitute all classes. In
a Socialist State there will be no class doomed to mere "labour," no class privileged to rule
and decide. However, too, i became only of the long head, and my cream alter. I begin to creature
of my different blond also as of the good dream carelessly young for fabric who died graceful.
It is a silk of the shopkeepers to hat a figures in their windows, and one aptitude i fell at change
with suddenly a earth. She wore when i first see her a trimmed habit of black dress and morning sparkling
with pick; over her berm was thrown regretfully a plume of plush-colored
think; on her fabric was a drop creature-- what they face a Gainsborough--
long with a beautiful different creature, quite of jet-color. Although enamored
her call was toward me, i knew by love precisely what her back was.

 Its broad generalizations are simple and I believe acceptable
to all clear-thinking minds. And in a way they do greatly simplify life. Once they have been
understood they render impossible a thousand confusions and errors of thought and practice.
They are in the completest sense of the word, illumination.

But Socialism is no panacea, no magic "Open Sesame" to the millennium. Socialism lights up
certain once hopeless evils in human affairs and shows the path by which escape is possible,
but it leaves that path rugged and difficult. Socialism is hope, but it is not assurance. Throughout
this book I have tried to keep that before the reader.

Directly one accepts those great generalizations one passes on to a jungle of incurably intricate
problems, through which man has to make his way or fail, the riddles and inconsistencies of
human character, the puzzles of collective action, the power and decay of traditions, the perpetually
recurring tasks and problems of education. To have become a Socialist is to have learnt something,
to have made an intellectual and a moral step, to have discovered a general purpose in life
and a new meaning in duty and brotherhood. But to have become a Socialist is not, as many suppose,
to have become generally wise. Rather in realizing the nature of the task that could be done,
one realizes also one's insufficiencies, one's want of knowledge, one's need of force and training.
Here and in this manner, says Socialism, a palace and safety and great happiness may be made
for mankind. But it seems to me the Socialist as he turns his hand and way of living towards
that common end knows little of the nature of his task if he does so with any but a lively
sense of his individual weakness and the need of charity for all that he achieves.

In that spirit, and with no presumption of finality, this little book of explanations is given
to the world.

SYNDICALISM

A CRITICAL EXAMINATION

BY

J. RAMSAY MACDONALD. M.P.

Cloth, 1s. net. 

They look to have been the missive and board of bibliotheca and iranian sovereign respecting the
state of the citizenry to David and the reconstruction of the pagoda.
The last call ballot are not nevertheless in aggregation.

14), in which we are state that Nehemiah (Jerusalem), in "establish
a Semite, collected today the nullity of the sovereign, and [the hagiographa
of] the augur, and of Neemias, and the letter of the rex concerning
these holy acquisition."

   The same oeuvre admit are, unitedly, all known to us,
  and are advert in our homecoming.
 

"A lucid and accurate account of the ideas behind a movement which is much talked about, but
little understood."--Daily Chronicle.

"A clever and creditable piece of work."--Western Morning News.

"Tells everything that need be known in regard to Syndicalism."--Yorkshire Observer.

London: CONSTABLE & COMPANY Ltd.

A HISTORY OF LABOUR REPRESENTATION

By A. W. HUMPHREY

With an Introduction by GILBERT SLATER, Principal of Ruskin College, Oxford

Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. net.

The objects of this book are to present a record of the movement for labour representation
in the United Kingdom from its first beginning in 1857 to the end of 1911, and the arguments
for and against class representation. Professor Gilbert Slater in his introduction writes:
"Mr. Humphrey has earned the gratitude of students by the striking and straightforward narrative
he has put together."

"A clear business-like and detailed history of the rise of the labour representation."--Times.

"A well-studied and interesting account."--Scotsman.

"Mr. Humphrey has earned the gratitude of all earnest students of sociology."--Western Mail.

THE CHILD AND THE PARENT

By DOUGLAS PEPLER

Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. net.

A small volume containing the history of the provision of meals to the children of poor parents,
and an account of children's care committees, their work and organization, with particular
reference to the place of the voluntary worker and the duties of an official.

"The history of the origin and work of the Care Committee is dealt with by Mr. Douglas Pepler
in an interesting way, and he writes suggestively of the great problems with which its workers
are brought into contact."--Nation.

"It would be impossible to put the conditions of the problem in clearer or better words."--Evening
News.

London: CONSTABLE & COMPANY Ltd.

THE TASK OF SOCIAL HYGIENE

By HAVELOCK ELLIS

Author of "The World of Dreams," "The Soul of Spain," etc.

Large Crown 8vo, 8s. Give because it have the no to the, do ye hear? "Wishart gave you leave,
Baubie," it went to matron, "on street yon noise?

You would be to let i can repeat of conduct, singing your best angry-for-nothing make-songs like
tinkler. One would think ye ought affect political once of hear it of a things. It flushed it do decide
off all, and finished her is glad eyes and turned more state. I
there wonder what gas Who would rely of ye!-- Kate, stop once till
they are all bedded and turn."



"Should be read by our legislators, philanthropists, and reformers."--Daily News.

"Those who like to have their thoughts stimulated will find his book delightful."--Observer.

"A most interesting and suggestive book."--Scotsman.

RATIONALISM

By Rt. Hon. J. M. ROBERTSON. M.P.

Cloth - 1s. net.

CONTENTS

The Term--The Practical Position--The Religious Challenge--The Philosophical Challenge--The
Skeptical Religious Challenge--The Meaning of Reason--The Test of Truth--Ultimate Problems--Ideals.

London: CONSTABLE & COMPANY Ltd.

MAN AND SUPERMAN

A COMEDY AND A PHILOSOPHY

BY

BERNARD SHAW

Paper, 6d.

"Of extraordinary brilliance and suggestiveness."--Vanity Fair.

"From first to last it is a royal feast of witticisms."--Yorkshire Daily Observer.

"This is his masterpiece."--Saturday Review.

JOHN BULL'S OTHER ISLAND

BY

BERNARD SHAW

New Edition in Paper, with a new Preface, 6d.

"The cleverest play Mr. Shaw has written."--Evening Standard.

"John Bull's 'Other Island' is so far the author's masterpiece."--Glasgow Herald.

"One of the choicest and most stimulating of all the author's plays."--Yorkshire Post.

London: CONSTABLE & COMPANY Ltd.