Reine was no coquette, and such a course of action would be repugnant to her frank, open nature.
It was a profound enigma, which Claudet, who had plenty of good common sense, but not much
insight, was unable to solve. But grief has, among its other advantages, the power of rendering
our perceptions more acute; and by dint of revolving the question in his mind, Claudet at last
became enlightened.  Had not Reine simply followed the impulse of her wounded feelings?  She
was very proud, and when the man whom she secretly loved had come coolly forward to plead the
cause of one who was indifferent to her, would not her self-respect be lowered, and would she
not, in a spirit of bravado, accept the proposition, in order that he might never guess the
sufferings of her spurned affections? There was no doubt, that, later, recognizing that the
task was beyond her strength, she had felt ashamed of deceiving Claudet any longer, and, acting
on the advice of the Abbe Pernot, had made up her mind to break off a union that was repugnant
to her.

"Yes;" he repeated, mournfully to himself, "that must have been the way it happened."  And
with this kind of explanation of Reine's actions, his irritation seemed to lessen.  Not that
his grief was less poignant, but the first burst of rage had spent itself like a great wind-storm,
which becomes lulled after a heavy fall of rain; the bitterness was toned down, and he was
enabled to reason more clearly.

Julien--well, what was the part of Julien in all this disturbance?  "If what I imagine is true,"
thought he, "Monsieur de Buxieres knows that Reine loves him, but has he any reciprocal feeling
for her?  With a man as mysterious as my cousin, it is not easy to find out what is going on
in his heart.  Anyhow, I have no right to complain of him; as soon as he discovered my love
for Reine, did he not, besides ignoring his own claim, offer spontaneously to take my message?
Still, there is something queer at the bottom of it all, and whatever it costs me, I am going
to find it out."

At this moment, through the misty air, he heard faintly the village clock strike eleven.  "Already
so late!  how the time flies, even when one is suffering!"  He bent his course toward the chateau,
and, breathless and excited, without replying to Manette's inquiries, he burst into the hall
where his cousin was pacing up and down, waiting for breakfast.  At this sudden intrusion Julien
started, and noted Claudet's quick breathing and disordered state.

"Ho, ho!"  exclaimed he, in his usual, sarcastic tone, "what a hurry you are in!  I suppose
you have come to say the wedding-day is fixed at last?"

"No!"  replied Claudet, briefly, "there will be no wedding."

Julien tottered, and turned to face his cousin.

"What's that?  Are you joking?"

"I am in no mood for joking.  Reine will not have me; she has taken back her promise."

While pronouncing these words, he scrutinized attentively his cousin's countenance, full in
the light from the opposite window.  He saw his features relax, and his eyes glow with the
same expression which he had noticed a few days previous, when he had referred to the fact
that Reine had again postponed the marriage.

"Whence comes this singular change?"  stammered de Buxieres, visibly agitated; "what reasons
does Mademoiselle Vincart give in explanation?"

"Idle words: her father's health, disinclination to leave him.  You may suppose I take such
excuses for what they are worth.  The real cause of her refusal is more serious and more mortifying."

"You know it, then?"  exclaimed Julien, eagerly.

"I know it, because I forced Reine to confess it."

"And the reason is?"

"That she does not love me."

"Reine--does not love you!"

Again a gleam of light irradiated the young man's large, blue eyes. Claudet was leaning against
the table, in front of his cousin; he continued slowly, looking him steadily in the face:

"That is not all.  Not only does Reine not love me, but she loves some one else."

Julien changed color; the blood coursed over his cheeks, his forehead, his ears; he drooped
his head.

"Did she tell you so?"  he murmured, at last, feebly.

"She did not, but I guessed it.  Her heart is won, and I think I know by whom."

Claudet had uttered these last words slowly and with a painful effort, at the same time studying
Julien's countenance with renewed inquiry.  The latter became more and more troubled, and his
physiognomy expressed both anxiety and embarrassment.

"Whom do you suspect?"  he stammered.

"Oh!"  replied Claudet, employing a simple artifice to sound the obscure depth of his cousin's
heart, "it is useless to name the person; you do not know him."

"A stranger?"

Julien's countenance had again changed.  His hands were twitching nervously, his lips compressed,
and his dilated pupils were blazing with anger, instead of triumph, as before.

"Yes; a stranger, a clerk in the iron-works at Grancey, I think."

"You think!--you think!"  cried Julien, fiercely, "why don't you have more definite information
before you accuse Mademoiselle Vincart of such treachery?"

He resumed pacing the hall, while his interlocutor, motionless, remained silent, and kept his
eyes steadily upon him.

"It is not possible," resumed Julien, "Reine can not have played us such a trick!  When I spoke
to her for you, it was so easy to say she was already betrothed!"

"Perhaps," objected Claudet, shaking his head, "she had reasons for not letting you know all
that was in her mind."

"What reasons?"

"She doubtless believed at that time that the man she preferred did not care for her.  There
are some people who, when they are vexed, act in direct contradiction to their own wishes.
I have the idea that Reine accepted me only for want of some one better, and afterward, being
too openhearted to dissimulate for any length of time, she thought better of it, and sent me
about my business."

"And you," interrupted Julien, sarcastically, "you, who had been accepted as her betrothed,
did not know better how to defend your rights than to suffer yourself to be ejected by a rival,
whose intentions, even, you have not clearly ascertained!"

"By Jove!  how could I help it?  A fellow that takes an unwilling bride is playing for too
high stakes.  The moment I found there was another she preferred, I had but one course before
me--to take myself off."

"And you call that loving!"  shouted de Buxieres, "you call that losing your heart!  God in
heaven!  if I had been in your place, how differently I should have acted!  Instead of leaving,
with piteous protestations, I should have stayed near Reine, I should have surrounded her with
tenderness.  I should have expressed my passion with so much force that its flame should pass
from my burning soul to hers, and she would have been forced to love me!  Ah!  If I had only
thought!  if I had dared! how different it would have been!"

He jerked out his sentences with unrestrained frenzy.  He seemed hardly to know what he was
saying, or that he had a listener.  Claudet stood contemplating him in sullen silence: "Aha!"
thought he, with bitter resignation; "I have sounded you at last.  I know what is in the bottom
of your heart."

Manette, bringing in the breakfast, interrupted their colloquy, and both assumed an air of
indifference, according to a tacit understanding that a prudent amount of caution should be
observed in her presence.  They ate hurriedly, and as soon as the cloth was removed, and they
were again alone, Julien, glancing with an indefinable expression at Claudet, muttered savagely:

"Well!  what do you decide?"

"I will tell you later," responded the other, briefly.

He quitted the room abruptly, told Manette that he would not be home until late, and strode
out across the fields, his dog following.  He had taken his gun as a blind, but it was useless
for Montagnard to raise his bark; Claudet allowed the hares to scamper away with out sending
a single shot after them.  He was busy inwardly recalling the details of the conversation he
had had with his cousin.  The situation now was simplified Julien was in love with Reine, and
was vainly combating his overpowering passion.  What reason had he for concealing his love?
What motive or reasoning had induced him, when he was already secretly enamored of the girl,
to push Claudet in front and interfere to procure her acceptance of him as a fiance?  This
point alone remained obscure. Was Julien carrying out certain theories of the respect due his
position in society, and did he fear to contract a misalliance by marrying a mere farmer's
daughter?  Or did he, with his usual timidity and distrust of himself, dread being refused
by Reine, and, half through pride, half through backward ness, keep away for fear of a humiliating
rejection? With de Buxieres's proud and suspicious nature, each of these suppositions was equally
likely.  The conclusion most undeniable was, that notwithstanding his set ideas and his moral
cowardice, Julien had an ardent and over powering love for Mademoiselle Vincart.  As to Reine
herself, Claudet was more than ever convinced that she had a secret inclination toward somebody,
although she had denied the charge.  But for whom was her preference?  Claudet knew the neighborhood
too well to believe the existence of any rival worth talking about, other than his cousin de
Buxieres.  None of the boys of the village or the surrounding towns had ever come courting
old Father Vincart's daughter, and de Buxieres himself possessed sufficient qualities to attract
Reine. Certainly, if he were a girl, he never should fix upon Julien for a lover; but women
often have tastes that men can not comprehend, and Julien's refinement of nature, his bashfulness,
and even his reserve, might easily have fascinated a girl of such strong will and somewhat
peculiar notions.  It was probable, therefore, that she liked him, and perhaps had done so
for a long time; but, being clear-sighted and impartial, she could see that he never would
marry her, because her condition in life was not equal to his own.  Afterward, when the man
she loved had flaunted his indifference so far as to plead the cause of another, her pride
had revolted, and in the blind agony of her wounded feelings, she had thrown herself into the
arms of the first comer, as if to punish herself for entertaining loving thoughts of a man
who could so disdain her affection.

So, by means of that lucid intuition which the heart alone can furnish, Claudet at last succeeded
in evolving the naked truth.  But the fatiguing labor of so much thinking, to which his brain
was little accustomed, and the sadness which continued to oppress him, overcame him to such
an extent that he was obliged to sit down and rest on a clump of brushwood. He gazed over the
woods and the clearings, which he had so often traversed light of heart and of foot, and felt
mortally unhappy.  These sheltering lanes and growing thickets, where he had so frequently
encountered Reine, the beautiful hunting-grounds in which he had taken such delight, only awakened
painful sensations, and he felt as if he should grow to hate them all if he were obliged to
pass the rest of his days in their midst.  As the day waned, the sinuosities of the forest
became more blended; the depth of the valleys was lost in thick vapors. The wind had risen.
The first falling leaves of the season rose and fell like wounded birds; heavy clouds gathered
in the sky, and the night was coming on apace.  Claudet was grateful for the sudden darkness,
which would blot out a view now so distasteful to him.  Shortly, on the Auberive side, along
the winding Aubette, feeble lights became visible, as if inviting the young man to profit by
their guidance.  He arose, took the path indicated, and went to supper, or rather, to a pretence
of supper, in the same inn where he had breakfasted with Julien, whence the latter had gone
on his mission to Reine.  This remembrance alone would have sufficed to destroy his appetite.

He did not remain long at table; he could not, in fact, stay many minutes in one place, and
so, notwithstanding the urgent insistence of the hostess, he started on the way back to Vivey,
feeling his way through the profound darkness.  When he reached the chateau, every one was
in bed. Noiselessly, his dog creeping after him, he slipped into his room, and, overcome with
fatigue, fell into a heavy slumber.

The next morning his first visit was to Julien.  He found him in a nervous and feverish condition,
having passed a sleepless night. Claudet's revelations had entirely upset his intentions, and
planted fresh thorns of jealousy in his heart.  On first hearing that the marriage was broken
off, his heart had leaped for joy, and hope had revived within him; but the subsequent information
that Mademoiselle Vincart was probably interested in some lover, as yet unknown, had grievously
sobered him.  He was indignant at Reine's duplicity, and Claudet's cowardly resignation.  The
agony caused by Claudet's betrothal was a matter of course, but this love-for-a-stranger episode
was an unexpected and mortal wound.  He was seized with violent fits of rage; he was sometimes
tempted to go and reproach the young girl with what he called her breach of faith, and then
go and throw himself at her feet and avow his own passion.

But the mistrust he had of himself, and his incurable bashfulness, invariably prevented these
heroic resolutions from being carried out. He had so long cultivated a habit of minute, fatiguing
criticism upon every inward emotion that he had almost incapacitated himself for vigorous action.

He was in this condition when Claudet came in upon him.  At the noise of the opening door,
Julien raised his head, and looked dolefully at his cousin.

"Well?"  said he, languidly.

"Well!"  retorted Claudet, bravely, "on thinking over what has been happening during the last
month, I have made sure of one thing of which I was doubtful."

"Of what were you doubtful?"  returned de Buxieres, quite ready to take offence at the answer.

"I am about to tell you.  Do you remember the first conversation we had together concerning
Reine?  You spoke of her with so much earnestness that I then suspected you of being in love
with her."

"I--I--hardly remember," faltered Julien, coloring.

"In that case, my memory is better than yours, Monsieur de Buxieres. To-day, my suspicions
have become certainties.  You are in love with Reine Vincart!"

"I?"  faintly protested his cousin.

"Don't deny it, but rather, give me your confidence; you will not be sorry for it.  You love
Reine, and have loved her for a long while. You have succeeded in hiding it from me because
it is hard for you to unbosom yourself; but, yesterday, I saw it quite plainly.  You dare not
affirm the contrary!"

Julien, greatly agitated, had hidden his face in his hands.  After a moment's silence, he replied,
defiantly: "Well, and supposing it is so? What is the use of talking about it, since Reine's
affections are placed elsewhere?"

"Oh!  that's another matter.  Reine has declined to have me, and I really think she has some
other affair in her head.  Yet, to confess the truth, the clerk at the iron-works was a lover
of my own imagining; she never thought of him."

"Then why did you tell such a lie?" cried Julien, impetuously.

