The nimble-witted Miller had already smelt where I was travelling to, and made haste to get
on the same road. "Forcibly put, Mr. Balfour," says he. "A weighty observe, sir."

"We have next to ask ourselves if it will be good for King George," I pursued. "Sheriff Miller
appears pretty easy upon this; but I doubt you will scarce be able to pull down the house from
under him, without his Majesty coming by a knock or two, one of which might easily prove fatal."

I gave them a chance to answer, but none volunteered. By a foot of snow more or less kept pepazo returning to
his home, far away that it was very dark and it was night; and not come back was a sign that
when he realized that it was snowing hard and thought about turning around, the snow depth and
did not lose half a yard, which could not have occurred, according to opinion of those who had
seen "the air of snow" that night, before half past eight or nine. Adding up the hours since
the beginning of the company of pepazo until then, measuring the walk that lead up the hill,
and infers the ziszás he would, probably, in their various attempts to "shortcut" down the slopes,
leaving fair account: if pepazo was not in the winter "Peñarroja" was in the "Cuevona" the "Pedregalón
of Escajeras" or had been gobbled up the wolf, which was not likely having mozallón near as
tasty beasts of flesh as he was chasing. Neither hunger or cold were able to finish in one night
alone with a life so hard to crack as the Pepazo. No one doubted, and the caravan began the ascent
of the mountains caring for nothing else that a firm step and save time. By God's mercy, the
day, although brown, are presented relatively calm, and only the snow sparkled at the time.

Three hours did rise more sour, and another step of the first ridge
along it.

Of these four hours, the second and third test was because there was in them all evil that
abounds in the forest during the snow gauge it: air-numbing, vortices which drown, disoriented
and stray mists, trails cleared, soil traitors franked roads with shovels or guessed by the most
expert, unexpected falls, funny many risks and some of them fatal, often scares and incessant toil
... The time that lasted the passage of the hollow between the first and the second hill was more
bearable. Al end of this basin, ie the beginning of the second hill is the Pedregalón with
open mouth a short distance from the ground and faced to the path that led the expedition.
 The paper was very well expressed; beginning with a recitation
of the facts about myself, the reward offered for my apprehension, my surrender, the pressure
brought to bear upon me; my sequestration; and my arrival at Inverary in time to be too late;
going on to explain the reasons of loyalty and public interest for which it was agreed to waive
any right of action; and winding up with a forcible appeal to the King's mercy on behalf of James.

Methought I was a good deal sacrificed, and rather represented in the light of a firebrand
of a fellow whom my cloud of lawyers had restrained with difficulty from extremes. But I let
it pass, and made but the one suggestion, that I should be described as ready to deliver my
own evidence and adduce that of others before any commission of inquiry--and the one demand,
that I should be immediately furnished with a copy.

Colstoun hummed and hawed. "This is a very confidential document," said he.

"And my position towards Prestongrange is highly peculiar," I replied. "No question but I must
have touched his heart at our first interview, so that he has since stood my friend consistently.
But for him, gentlemen, I must now be lying dead or awaiting my sentence alongside poor James.
For which reason I choose to communicate to him the fact of this memorial as soon as it is
copied. You are to consider also that this step will make for my protection. 

Pepazo To which he replied instantly:

- Because I had empeñau in tackling the mares, and as pa columbralas
nievi served me well dimpués night fell ... pull, pull, pull, Eyas
parriba behind, turns here and saves acuyá ...

- And where are these
beasts to this? - Asked the priest.

- Sábelu God - pepazo saddened
answered the question -.

Al ayegar me to this gem, tresponierum Cumbria Eyas the other as
if the demontris yevaran ... and a galgu echil ... Squeezed blizzard,
thickening the nievi had to walk to Tablanca Muchu, had about this
Cuevona, and here I am so guapamenti mayor.

- And you've been able
to sleep? - I questioned the doctor.

- As he had no other thing ...--
JACER admired mozallón answered the question.

- But remember a damn
thing - insisted Neluco - the fright you gave to your family and all
the people ...

He shrugged his shoulders questioned, as it then fell
for the first time.

The notice, said Don Sabas decomposing a bit:

- And if we had all been so kestrels like you, what would become of you, if not today, tomorrow,
when you hunger and cold rush?

Another response shrug, as if no such signal had crossed the core idea of ​​pepazo.

Finally, there was this man into channel ... not much time to lose
so they went outsiders in the Cuevona, work very easy, because it
had already reached the half a yard of snow mouth, rested and ate
all by the voracity of pepazo line, without which provisions have
not attained to himself, and as the sky was blackened bad part, after
a little rest they all left the cave ready against the march, and
undertook a good walk down the hill.

At first everything went well, and until you buzz abounded, hints and ironies untapped to pepazo,
who was not aware of most of them by natural clumsiness of his his
head.

" Whistle Salces atrocities are unleashed against him, and, above all, against Toper, who opened
the door as it closed at a man as smart as one that he (Chorcos)
knew of "equal than with himself, "and that while nothing was said
for certain languages, was the one who planted the jito in the heart
of Tanasi.



"My lord, it was myself," said I. "These gentlemen have shown me no such consideration, as
that I should deny myself any credit I can fairly claim, or spare them any responsibility they
should properly bear. And the mere truth is, that they were all in favour of a process which
should have remarkable consequences in the Parliament House, and prove for them (in one of
their own expressions) a dripping roast. Before I intervened, I think they were on the point
of sharing out the different law appointments. Our friend Mr. Symon was to be taken in upon
some composition."

Prestongrange smiled. "These are our friends!" said he. "And what were your reasons for dissenting,
Mr. David?"

I told them without concealment, expressing, however, with more force and volume those which
regarded Prestongrange himself.

"You do me no more than justice," said he. "I have fought as hard in your interest as you have
fought against mine. And how came you here to-day?" he asked. "As the case drew out, I began
to grow uneasy that I had clipped the period so fine, and I was even expecting you to-morrow.
But to-day--I never dreamed of it."

I was not, of course, going to betray Andie.

"I suspect there is some very weary cattle by the road," said I.

"If I had known you were such a mosstrooper you should have tasted longer of the Bass," says he.

"Speaking of which, my lord, I return your letter." And I gave him the enclosure in the counterfeit
hand.

"There was the cover also with the seal," said he.

"I have it not," said I. "It bore naught but the address, and could not compromise a cat. The
second enclosure I have, and with your permission, I desire to keep it."

I thought he winced a little, but he said nothing to the point. "To-morrow," he resumed, "our
business here is to be finished, and I proceed by Glasgow. I would be very glad to have you
of my party, Mr. David."

"My lord...." I began.

"I do not deny it will be of service to me," he interrupted. "I desire even that, when we shall
come to Edinburgh you should alight at my house. You have very warm friends in the Miss Grants,
who will be overjoyed to have you to themselves. No matter how sympathetic, heroic,
or virtuous one is of character; some unhealthy and unbalanced qualities always shine through. Prince
Don Carlos, and King Don Sebastian look at this as well related.

Often enough already (in our brief relations) this gentleman had caused my head to spin; no
doubt but what for a moment he did so again now. Here was the old fiction still maintained
of my particular favour with his daughters, one of whom had been so good as laugh at me, while
the other two had scarce deigned to remark the fact of my existence. 

Remaining open to the ideas that Nietzsche and Gener are similar, Nietzsche is illogical where Gener
is logical. Nietzsche states that the Lord is dead. As gender is concerned, even though it is
often contradictory, he is called the Eternal Father when he appears and gives a long winded, pompous
speech. However, the Eternal Father is so rare that everything seems to remain the same. And in the
denial of a personal God, what will hold morality, goodness, absolute beauty and truth together
in a permanent, unchanging way? Mr. Gener denies everything in order to deny God. And I do not
reap the rewards: Mr. Gener clearly does. However, Mr. Gener also talks much of love, and says that
we must all show love.

"This is in the nature of a countercheck to the memorial?" said I.

"You are cunning, Mr. David," said he, "and you do not wholly guess wrong; the fact will be
of use to me in my defence. Perhaps, however, you underrate my friendly sentiments, which are
perfectly genuine. I have a respect for you, Mr. David, mingled with awe," says he, smiling.

"I am more than willing, I am earnestly desirous to meet your wishes," said I. "It is my design
to be called to the bar, where your lordship's countenance would be invaluable; and I am besides
sincerely grateful to yourself and family for different marks of interest and of indulgence. Horace gives us unique poetry and rarely cites the statement made by Democritus,
which claims that one must be crazy to be a poet. Horace, in his right mind, is expelled from Helicon.


