But the reconciliation could not be sincere.  The wrong was too great to be forgiven, and Rodolph
continued to nourish at heart an unextinguishable hatred of Matthias.  With grief and indignation
he brooded over the thought, that the Bohemian sceptre was finally to descend into the hands
of his enemy; and the prospect was not more consoling, even if Matthias should die without
issue.  In that case, Ferdinand, Archduke of Graetz, whom he equally disliked, was the head
of the family.  To exclude the latter as well as Matthias from the succession to the throne
of Bohemia, he fell upon the project of diverting that inheritance to Ferdinand's brother,
the Archduke Leopold, Bishop of Passau, who among all his relatives had ever been the dearest
and most deserving.  The prejudices of the Bohemians in favour of the elective freedom of their
crown, and their attachment to Leopold's person, seemed to favour this scheme, in which Rodolph
consulted rather his own partiality and vindictiveness than the good of his house.  But to
carry out this project, a military force was requisite, and Rodolph actually assembled an army
in the bishopric of Passau.  The object of this force was hidden from all.  An inroad, however,
which, for want of pay it made suddenly and without the Emperor's knowledge into Bohemia, and
the outrages which it there committed, stirred up the whole kingdom against him.  In vain he
asserted his innocence to the Bohemian Estates; they would not believe his protestations; vainly
did he attempt to restrain the violence of his soldiery; they disregarded his orders. Persuaded
that the Emperor's object was to annul the Letter of Majesty, the Protectors of Liberty armed
the whole of Protestant Bohemia, and invited Matthias into the country.  After the dispersion
of the force he had collected at Passau, the Emperor remained helpless at Prague, where he
was kept shut up like a prisoner in his palace, and separated from all his councillors.  In
the meantime, Matthias entered Prague amidst universal rejoicings, where Rodolph was soon afterwards
weak enough to acknowledge him King of Bohemia.  So hard a fate befell this Emperor; he was
compelled, during his life, to abdicate in favour of his enemy that very throne, of which he
had been endeavouring to deprive him after his own death.  To complete his degradation, he
was obliged, by a personal act of renunciation, to release his subjects in Bohemia, Silesia,
and Lusatia from their allegiance, and he did it with a broken heart.  All, even those he thought
he had most attached to his person, had abandoned him.  When he had signed the instrument,
he threw his hat upon the ground, and gnawed the pen which had rendered so shameful a service.

While Rodolph thus lost one hereditary dominion after another, the imperial dignity was not
much better maintained by him.  Each of the religious parties into which Germany was divided,
continued its efforts to advance itself at the expense of the other, or to guard against its
attacks.  The weaker the hand that held the sceptre, and the more the Protestants and Roman
Catholics felt they were left to themselves, the more vigilant necessarily became their watchfulness,
and the greater their distrust of each other.  It was enough that the Emperor was ruled by
Jesuits, and was guided by Spanish counsels, to excite the apprehension of the Protestants,
and to afford a pretext for hostility. The rash zeal of the Jesuits, which in the pulpit and
by the press disputed the validity of the religious peace, increased this distrust, and caused
their adversaries to see a dangerous design in the most indifferent measures of the Roman Catholics.
Every step taken in the hereditary dominions of the Emperor, for the repression of the reformed
religion, was sure to draw the attention of all the Protestants of Germany; and this powerful
support which the reformed subjects of Austria met, or expected to meet with from their religious
confederates in the rest of Germany, was no small cause of their confidence, and of the rapid
success of Matthias.  It was the general belief of the Empire, that they owed the long enjoyment
of the religious peace merely to the difficulties in which the Emperor was placed by the internal
troubles in his dominions, and consequently they were in no haste to relieve him from them.

Almost all the affairs of the Diet were neglected, either through the procrastination of the
Emperor, or through the fault of the Protestant Estates, who had determined to make no provision
for the common wants of the Empire till their own grievances were removed.  These grievances
related principally to the misgovernment of the Emperor; the violation of the religious treaty,
and the presumptuous usurpations of the Aulic Council, which in the present reign had begun
to extend its jurisdiction at the expense of the Imperial Chamber.  Formerly, in all disputes
between the Estates, which could not be settled by club law, the Emperors had in the last resort
decided of themselves, if the case were trifling, and in conjunction with the princes, if it
were important; or they determined them by the advice of imperial judges who followed the court.
This superior jurisdiction they had, in the end of the fifteenth century, assigned to a regular
and permanent tribunal, the Imperial Chamber of Spires, in which the Estates of the Empire,
that they might not be oppressed by the arbitrary appointment of the Emperor, had reserved
to themselves the right of electing the assessors, and of periodically reviewing its decrees.
By the religious peace, these rights of the Estates, (called the rights of presentation and
visitation,) were extended also to the Lutherans, so that Protestant judges had a voice in
Protestant causes, and a seeming equality obtained for both religions in this supreme tribunal.

But the enemies of the Reformation and of the freedom of the Estates, vigilant to take advantage
of every incident that favoured their views, soon found means to neutralize the beneficial
effects of this institution.  A supreme jurisdiction over the Imperial States was gradually
and skilfully usurped by a private imperial tribunal, the Aulic Council in Vienna, a court
at first intended merely to advise the Emperor in the exercise of his undoubted, imperial,
and personal prerogatives; a court, whose members being appointed and paid by him, had no law
but the interest of their master, and no standard of equity but the advancement of the unreformed
religion of which they were partisans.  Before the Aulic Council were now brought several suits
originating between Estates differing in religion, and which, therefore, properly belonged
to the Imperial Chamber.  It was not surprising if the decrees of this tribunal bore traces
of their origin; if the interests of the Roman Church and of the Emperor were preferred to
justice by Roman Catholic judges, and the creatures of the Emperor.  Although all the Estates
of Germany seemed to have equal cause for resisting so perilous an abuse, the Protestants alone,
who most sensibly felt it, and even these not all at once and in a body, came forward as the
defenders of German liberty, which the establishment of so arbitrary a tribunal had outraged
in its most sacred point, the administration of justice. In fact, Germany would have had little
cause to congratulate itself upon the abolition of club-law, and in the institution of the
Imperial Chamber, if an arbitrary tribunal of the Emperor was allowed to interfere with the
latter.  The Estates of the German Empire would indeed have improved little upon the days of
barbarism, if the Chamber of Justice in which they sat along with the Emperor as judges, and
for which they had abandoned their original princely prerogative, should cease to be a court
of the last resort.  But the strangest contradictions were at this date to be found in the
minds of men.  The name of Emperor, a remnant of Roman despotism, was still associated with
an idea of autocracy, which, though it formed a ridiculous inconsistency with the privileges
of the Estates, was nevertheless argued for by jurists, diffused by the partisans of despotism,
and believed by the ignorant.

To these general grievances was gradually added a chain of singular incidents, which at length
converted the anxiety of the Protestants into utter distrust.  During the Spanish persecutions
in the Netherlands, several Protestant families had taken refuge in Aix-la-Chapelle, an imperial
city, and attached to the Roman Catholic faith, where they settled and insensibly extended
their adherents.  Having succeeded by stratagem in introducing some of their members into the
municipal council, they demanded a church and the public exercise of their worship, and the
demand being unfavourably received, they succeeded by violence in enforcing it, and also in
usurping the entire government of the city.  To see so important a city in Protestant hands
was too heavy a blow for the Emperor and the Roman Catholics.  After all the Emperor's requests
and commands for the restoration of the olden government had proved ineffectual, the Aulic
Council proclaimed the city under the ban of the Empire, which, however, was not put in force
till the following reign.

Of yet greater importance were two other attempts of the Protestants to extend their influence
and their power.  The Elector Gebhard, of Cologne, (born Truchsess--[Grand-master of the kitchen.]--of
Waldburg,) conceived for the young Countess Agnes, of Mansfield, Canoness of Gerresheim, a
passion which was not unreturned.  As the eyes of all Germany were directed to this intercourse,
the brothers of the Countess, two zealous Calvinists, demanded satisfaction for the injured
honour of their house, which, as long as the elector remained a Roman Catholic prelate, could
not be repaired by marriage.  They threatened the elector they would wash out this stain in
his blood and their sister's, unless he either abandoned all further connexion with the countess,
or consented to re-establish her reputation at the altar.  The elector, indifferent to all
the consequences of this step, listened to nothing but the voice of love.  Whether it was in
consequence of his previous inclination to the reformed doctrines, or that the charms of his
mistress alone effected this wonder, he renounced the Roman Catholic faith, and led the beautiful
Agnes to the altar.

This event was of the greatest importance.  By the letter of the clause reserving the ecclesiastical
states from the general operation of the religious peace, the elector had, by his apostacy,
forfeited all right to the temporalities of his bishopric; and if, in any case, it was important
for the Catholics to enforce the clause, it was so especially in the case of electorates. 
On the other hand, the relinquishment of so high a dignity was a severe sacrifice, and peculiarly
so in the case of a tender husband, who had wished to enhance the value of his heart and hand
by the gift of a principality.  Moreover, the Reservatum Ecclesiasticum was a disputed article
of the treaty of Augsburg; and all the German Protestants were aware of the extreme importance
of wresting this fourth electorate from the opponents of their faith.--[Saxony, Brandenburg,
and the Palatinate were already Protestant.]--The example had already been set in several of
the ecclesiastical benefices of Lower Germany, and attended with success.  Several canons of
Cologne had also already embraced the Protestant confession, and were on the elector's side,
while, in the city itself, he could depend upon the support of a numerous Protestant party.
All these considerations, greatly strengthened by the persuasions of his friends and relations,
and the promises of several German courts, determined the elector to retain his dominions,
while he changed his religion.

But it was soon apparent that he had entered upon a contest which he could not carry through.
Even the free toleration of the Protestant service within the territories of Cologne, had already
occasioned a violent opposition on the part of the canons and Roman Catholic `Estates' of that
province.  The intervention of the Emperor, and a papal ban from Rome, which anathematized
the elector as an apostate, and deprived him of all his dignities, temporal and spiritual,
armed his own subjects and chapter against him.  The Elector assembled a military force; the
chapter did the same.  To ensure also the aid of a strong arm, they proceeded forthwith to
a new election, and chose the Bishop of Liege, a prince of Bavaria.

A civil war now commenced, which, from the strong interest which both religious parties in
Germany necessarily felt in the conjuncture, was likely to terminate in a general breaking
up of the religious peace. What most made the Protestants indignant, was that the Pope should
have presumed, by a pretended apostolic power, to deprive a prince of the empire of his imperial
dignities.  Even in the golden days of their spiritual domination, this prerogative of the
Pope had been disputed; how much more likely was it to be questioned at a period when his authority
was entirely disowned by one party, while even with the other it rested on a tottering foundation.
All the Protestant princes took up the affair warmly against the Emperor; and Henry IV.  of
France, then King of Navarre, left no means of negotiation untried to urge the German princes
to the vigorous assertion of their rights.  The issue would decide for ever the liberties of
Germany.  Four Protestant against three Roman Catholic voices in the Electoral College must
at once have given the preponderance to the former, and for ever excluded the House of Austria
from the imperial throne.

But the Elector Gebhard had embraced the Calvinist, not the Lutheran religion; and this circumstance
alone was his ruin.  The mutual rancour of these two churches would not permit the Lutheran
Estates to regard the Elector as one of their party, and as such to lend him their effectual
support.  All indeed had encouraged, and promised him assistance; but only one appanaged prince
of the Palatine House, the Palsgrave John Casimir, a zealous Calvinist, kept his word.  Despite
of the imperial prohibition, he hastened with his little army into the territories of Cologne;
but without being able to effect any thing, because the Elector, who was destitute even of
the first necessaries, left him totally without help.  So much the more rapid was the progress
of the newly-chosen elector, whom his Bavarian relations and the Spaniards from the Netherlands
supported with the utmost vigour.  The troops of Gebhard, left by their master without pay,
abandoned one place after another to the enemy; by whom others were compelled to surrender.
In his Westphalian territories, Gebhard held out for some time longer, till here, too, he was
at last obliged to yield to superior force. After several vain attempts in Holland and England
to obtain means for his restoration, he retired into the Chapter of Strasburg, and died dean
of that cathedral; the first sacrifice to the Ecclesiastical Reservation, or rather to the
want of harmony among the German Protestants.

