On a visit to a nursery at Erfurt I once inspected an experiment with a new double variety
of the common blue-bottle or blue corn-flower. The plants were dependent on the weather to
a high degree. Bad weather increased the number of poorly filled flower-heads, while warm and
sunny days were productive of beautiful double flowers. The heads that are borne by strong
branches have a greater tendency to become double than those of the weaker ones, [508] and
towards the autumn, when all those of the first group are faded away, and only a weak though
large section of the heads is still flowering, the whole aspect of the variety gradually retrogrades.
The same law of dependency and periodicity is prevalent everywhere. In my own cultures of the
improved field-marigold I have observed it frequently. The number of the ray-florets may be
considered as a direct response to nourishment, both when this is determined by external circumstances,
and when it depends on the particular strength of the branch, which bears the head in question.
It is a case exactly similar to that of the supernumerary carpels of the pistilloid poppy,
and the deductions arrived at with that variety may be applied directly to double flowers.

This dependency upon nourishment is of high practical importance in combination with the usual
effect of the doubling which makes the flowers sterile. It is a general rule that the most
perfect flowers do not produce seed. At the height of the flowering period the external circumstances
are the most favorable, and the flowering branches still constitute the stronger axes of the
plants. Hence we may infer that sterility will prevail precisely in this period. Many varieties
are known to yield only seeds from the very last flowers, as for instance some [509] double
begonias. Others bear only seed on their weaker lateral branches, as the double camomile, or
become fertile only towards the fall, as is often the case with the above quoted Erfurt variety
of the blue-bottle. As far as I have been able to ascertain, such seeds are quite adequate
for the reproduction and perpetuation of the double varieties, but the question whether there
are differences between the seeds of the more or less double flowers of the same plants still
remains open. It is very probable, from a theoretical point of view, that such differences
exist, but perhaps they are so slight, as to have practically no bearing on the question.

On the ground of their wide range of variability, the double varieties must be regarded as
pertaining to the group of ever-sporting forms. On one side they fluctuate in the direction
towards such petalomanous flowers as are borne by the stocks and others, which we have previously
discussed. Here no trace of the fertile organs is left. But this extreme is never reached by
petaloid double flowers. A gap remains which, often overlooked, always exists, and which sharply
separates the two types. On the other hand the alteration of the stamens gradually relapses
to perfectly single flowers. Here the analogy with the pistillody of the poppies and with the
"five-leaved" clover is obvious.

[510] This conception of the inner nature of double flowers explains the fact that the varietal
mark is seldom seen to be complete throughout larger groups of individuals, providing these
have not been already selected by this character. Tagetes africana is liable to produce some
poorly filled specimens, and some double varieties of carnations are offered for sale with
the note that the seed yields only 80% of doubles. With Chrysanthemum coronarium and blue-bottles
this figure is often announced to be only about 50%. No doubt it is partly due to impurities,
caused by vicinism, but it is obviously improbable that the effect of these impurities should
be so large.

Some cases of partial reversion may be interpreted in the same way. Among the garden anemones,
Anemone coronaria, there is a variety called the "Bride," on account of its pure white dowers.
It is for sale with single and with double flowers, and these two forms are known to sport
into one another, although they are multiplied in the vegetative way. Such cases are known
to be of quite ordinary occurrence. Of course such sports must be considered as partial, and
the same stem may bear both types of flowers. It even happens that some particular flower is
partly double and partly single. Mr. Krelage, of Haarlem, had the kindness to [511] send me
such a curious flower. One half of it was completely double, while the other half was entirely
single, bearing normal and fertile stamens in the ordinary number.

The same halfway doubling is recorded to occur among composites sometimes, and from the same
source I possess in my collection a head of Pyrethrum roseum, bearing on half of its disk elongated
corolla tubes, and on the other half the small disk-florets of the typical species.

It is a current belief, that varieties are improved by continued culture. I have never been
able to ascertain the grounds on which this conviction rests. It may be referred either to
the purity of the race or to the complete development of the varietal character. In the first
case it is a question of hybrid mixtures from which many young varieties must be freed before
being placed on the market. But as we have already seen in a former lecture, this requires
only three or four years, and afterwards the degree of purity is kept up to the point which
proves to be the most suitable for practical purposes. The complete development of the varietal
character is a question restricted to ever-sporting varieties, since in white flowers and other
constant varieties this degree is variable in a very small and unimportant measure. [512] Hence
the double flowers seem to afford a very good example for this discussion.

It can be decided by two facts. First by a consideration of the oldest double varieties, and
secondly by that of the very youngest. Are the older ones now in a better condition than at
the outset? Have they really been gradually improved during the centuries of their existence?
Obviously this can only be answered by a comparison of the figures given by older writers,
with the varieties as they are now in culture. Munting's drawings and descriptions are now
nearly two centuries and a half old, but I do not find any real difference between his double
varieties and their present representatives. So it is in other cases in which improvements
by crossing or the introduction of new forms does not vitiate the evidence. Double varieties,
as a rule, are exactly the same now, as they were at the time of their first introduction.

If this were otherwise one would expect that young double varieties should in the main display
only slight grades of the anomaly, and that they would require centuries to reach their full
development. Nothing of the kind is on record. On the contrary the newest double sorts are
said to be not only equal to their predecessors, but to excel them. As a rule such claims may
be exaggerated, but not to any great extent. [513] This is proven in the simplest way by the
result of our own experiment.

In the double field-marigold we have the very first generation of a variety of pure and not
hybrid origin. It shows the new attribute in its full development. It has flower-heads nearly
as completely filled as the best double varieties of allied cultivated composites. In the second
generation it reached heads with 200 rays each, and much larger numbers will seldom be seen
in older species on heads of equal size. I have compared my novelty with the choicest double
camomiles and others, but failed to discover any real difference. Improvement of the variety
developed in the experiments carried on by myself seems to be excluded by the fact that it
comes into conflict with the same difficulty that confronts the older cultivated species, viz.:
the increasing sterility of the race.

It is perfectly evident that this double marigold is now quite constant. Continuously varying
about a fixed average it may live through centuries, but the mean and the limits will always
remain the same, as in the case of the ever-sporting varieties.

Throughout this lecture I have spoken of double flowers and double flower-heads of composites
as of one single group. They are as nearly related from the hereditary point of [514] view,
as they are divergent in other respects. It would be superfluous to dwell any longer upon the
difference between heads and flowers. But it is as well to point out, that the term double
flowers indicates a motley assemblage of different phenomena. The hen-and-chicken daisy, and
the corresponding variety of the garden cineraria (Cineraria cruenta), are extremes on one
side. The hen-and-chicken type occurs even in other families and is known to produce most curious
anomalies, as with Scabiosa, the supernumerary heads of which may be produced on long stalks
and become branched themselves in the same manner.

Petalody of the stamens is well known to be the ordinary type of doubling. But it is often
accompanied by a multiplication of the organs, both of the altered stamens and of the petals
themselves. This proliferation may consist in median or in lateral cleavages, and in both cases
the process may be repeated one or more times. It would be quite superfluous to give more details,
which may be gathered from any morphologic treatise on double flowers. But from the physiologic
point of view all these cases are to be considered as one large group, complying with previously
given definitions of the ever-sporting varieties. They are very variable and wholly permanent.
Obviously this [515] permanency agrees perfectly with the conception of their sudden origin.

[516]

LECTURE XVIII

NEW SPECIES OF OENOTHERA

In our experiments on the origin of peloric varieties and double flowers we were guided in
the choice of our material by a survey of the evidence already at hand. We chose the types
known to be most commonly produced anew, either in the wild state or under the conditions of
cultivation. In both instances our novelty was a variety in the ordinary sense of the word.
Our pedigree-culture was mainly an experimental demonstration of the validity of conclusions,
which had previously been deduced from such observations as can be made after the accidental
birth of new forms.

From these facts, and even from these pedigree-experiments, it is scarcely allowable to draw
conclusions as to the origin of real species. If we want to know how species originate, it
is obviously necessary to have recourse to direct observation. The question is of the highest
importance, both for the theory of descent, and for our conception of the real nature of [517]
systematic affinities at large. Many authors have tried to solve it on the ground of comparative
studies and of speculations upon the biologic relations of plants and animals. But in vain.
Contradiction and doubt still reign supreme. All our hopes now rest on the result of experiments.

Unfortunately such experiments seemed simply impossible a few years ago. What is to guide us
in the choice of the material? The answer may only be expected from a consideration of elementary
species. For it is obvious that they only can be observed to originate, and that the systematic
species, because they are only artificial groups of lower unities, can never become the subject
of successful experimental inquiry.

In previous lectures we tried to clear up the differences existing between nearly related elementary
species. We have seen that they affect all of the attributes of the plants, each of them changing
in some measure all of the organs. Nevertheless they were due to distinct unities and of the
lowest possible degree. Such unit-steps may therefore be expected to become visible some time
or other by artificial means. On the other hand, mutations as a rule make their appearance
in groups, and there are many systematic species which on close inspection [518] have been
shown to be in reality composite assemblages. Roses and brambles, hawkweeds and willows are
the best known examples. Violets and Draba verna, dandelions and helianthemums and many other
instances were dealt with in previous lectures. Even wheat and barley and corn afford instances
of large groups of elementary species. Formerly mixed in the fields, they became separated
during the last century, and now constitute constant races, which, for brevity's sake, are
dealt with under the name of varieties.

In such groups of nearly allied forms the single members must evidently be of common origin.
It is not necessary for them to have originated all in the same place or at the same time.
In some cases, as with Draba verna, the present geographic distribution points to a common
birthplace, from whence the various forms may about the same period have radiated in all directions.
The violets on the other hand seem to include widely diffused original forms, from which branches
have started at different times and in different localities.

The origin of such groups of allied forms must therefore be the object of our research. Perhaps
we might find a whole group, perhaps only part of it. In my opinion we have the right to assume
that if Draba and violets and [519] others have formerly mutated in this way, other species
must at present be in the same changeable condition. And if mutations in groups, or such periodic
mutations should be the rule, it is to be premised that these periods recur from time to time,
and that many species must even now be in mutating condition, while others are not.

It is readily granted that the constant condition of species is the normal one, and that mutating
periods must be the exception. This fact does not tend to increase our prospect of discovering
a species in a state of mutability. Many species will have to be tested before finding an instance.
On the other hand, a direct trial seems to be the only way to reach the goal. No such special
guides as those that led us to the choice of pelories and double flowers are available. The
only indication of value is the presumption that a condition of mutability might be combined
with a general state of variability at large, and that groups of plants of very uniform features
might be supposed to be constant in this respect too. On the contrary, anomalies and deviations
if existent in the members of one strain, or found together in one native locality of a species,
might be considered as an indication in the desired direction.

Few plants vary in the wild state in such a [520] measure as to give distinct indications.
All have to be given a trial in the garden under conditions as similar as possible to their
natural environments. Cultivated plants are of course to be excluded. Practically they have
already undergone the experience in question and can not be expected to change their habits
soon enough. Moreover they are often of hybrid origin. The best way is to experiment with the
native plants of one's own country.

I have made such experiments with some hundred species that grow wild in Holland. Some were
very variable, as for instance, the jointed charlock (Raphanus Raphanistrum) and the narrow-leaved
plantain (Plantago lanceolata). Others seemed more uniform, but many species, collected without
showing any malformation, subsequently produced them in my garden, either on the introduced
plants themselves or among their offspring. From this initial material I have procured a long
series of hereditary races, each with some peculiar anomaly for its special character. But
this result was only a secondary gain, a meager consolation for the negative fact that no real
mutability could be discovered.

My plants were mostly annuals or biennials, or such perennials as under adequate treatment
might produce flowers and seeds during their [521] first summer. It would be of no special
use to enumerate them. The negative result does not apply to the species as such, but only
to the individual strain, which I collected and cultivated. Many species, which are quite constant
with us, may be expected to be mutable in other parts of their range.

Only one of all my tests met my expectations. This species proved to be in a state of mutation,
producing new elementary forms continually, and it soon became the chief member of my experimental
garden. It was one of the evening primroses.

Several evening-primroses have at different times been introduced into European gardens from
America. From thence they have spread into the vicinity, becoming common and exhibiting the
behavior of indigenous types. Oenothera biennis was introduced about 1614 from Virginia, or
nearly three centuries ago. O. muricata, with small corollas and narrow leaves, was introduced
in the year 1789 by John Hunneman, and O. suaveolens, or sweet-scented primrose, a form very
similar to the biennis, about the same time, in 1778, by John Fothergill. This form is met
with in different parts of France, while the biennis and muricata are very common in the sandy
regions of Holland, where I have observed them for [522] more than 40 years. They are very
constant and have proven so in my experiments. Besides these three species, the large-flowered
evening-primrose, or Oenothera lamarckiana, is found in some localities in Holland and elsewhere.
We know little concerning its origin. It is supposed to have come from America in the same
way as its congeners, but as yet I have not been able to ascertain on what grounds this supposition
rests. As far as I know, it has not been seen growing wild in this country, though it may have
been overlooked. The fact that the species of this group are subject to many systematic controversies
and are combined by different writers into systematic species in different ways, being often
considered as varieties of one or two types, easily accounts for it having been overlooked.
However, it would be of great interest to ascertain whether O. lamarckiana yet grows in America,
and whether it is in the same state of mutability here as it is in Holland.

The large-flowered evening-primrose was also cultivated about the beginning of the last century
in the gardens of the Museum d'Histoire Naturelle, at Paris, where it was noticed by Lamarck,
who at once distinguished it as an undescribed species. He wrote a complete description [523]
of it and his type specimens are still preserved in the herbarium of the Museum, where I have
compared them with the plants of my own culture. Shortly afterwards it was renamed by Seringe,
in honor of its eminent discoverer, whose name it now bears. So Lamarck unconsciously discovered
and described himself the plant, which after a century, was to become the means of an empirical
demonstration of his far-reaching views on the common origin of all living beings.

Oenothera lamarckiana is considered in Europe as a garden-plant, much prized for parks and
ornamental planting. It is cultivated by seed-merchants and offered for sale. It has escaped
from gardens, and having abundant means for rapid multiplication, has become wild in many places.
As far as I know its known localities are small, and it is to be presumed that in each of them
the plant has escaped separately from culture. It was in this state that I first met with this
beautiful species.

Lamarck's evening-primrose is a stately plant, with a stout stem, attaining often a height
of 1.6 meters and more. When not crowded the main stem is surrounded by a large circle of smaller
branches, growing upwards from its base so as often to form a dense bush. These branches in
their turn have numerous lateral [524] branches. Most of them are crowned with flowers in summer,
which regularly succeed each other, leaving behind them long spikes of young fruits. The flowers
are large and of a bright yellow color, attracting immediate attention, even from a distance.
They open towards evening, as the name indicates, and are pollinated by humble-bees and moths.
On bright days their duration is confined to one evening, but during cloudy weather they may
still be found open on the following morning. Contrary to their congeners they are dependent
on visiting insects for pollination. O. biennis and O. muricata have their stigmas in immediate
contact with the anthers within the flower-buds, and as the anthers open in the morning preceding
the evening of the display of the petals, fecundation is usually accomplished before the insects
are let in. But in O. lamarckiana no such self-fertilization takes place. The stigmas are above
the anthers in the bud, and as the style increases in length at the time of the opening of
the corolla, they are elevated above the anthers and do not receive the pollen. Ordinarily
the flowers remained sterile if not visited by insects or pollinated by myself, although rare
instances of self-fertilization were seen.

In falling off, the flowers leave behind them a stout ovary with four cells and a large number
[525] of young seeds. The capsule when ripe, opens at its summit with four valves, and contains
often from two to three hundred seeds. A hundred capsules on the main stem is an average estimate,
and the lateral branches may ripen even still more fruits, by which a very rapid dissemination
is ensured.

This striking species was found in a locality near Hilvers, in the vicinity of Amsterdam, where
it grew in some thousands of individuals. Ordinarily biennial, it produces rosettes in the
first, and stems in the second year. Both the stems and the rosettes were at once seen to be
highly variable, and soon distinct varieties could be distinguished among them.

The first discovery of this locality was made in 1886. Afterwards I visited it many times,
often weekly or even daily during the first few years, and always at least once a year up to
the present time. This stately plant showed the long-sought peculiarity of producing a number
of new species every year. Some of them were observed directly on the field, either as stems
or as rosettes. The latter could be transplanted into my garden for further observation, and
the stems yielded seeds to be sown under like control. Others were too weak to live a sufficiently
long time in the field. They were discovered by sowing seed from indifferent plants [526] of
the wild locality in the garden. A third and last method of getting still more new species
from the original strain, was the repetition of the sowing process, by saving and sowing the
seed which ripened on the introduced plants. These various methods have led to the discovery
of over a dozen new types, never previously observed or described.

Leaving the physiologic side of the relations of these new forms for the next lecture, it would
be profitable to give a short description of the several novelties. To this end they may be
combined under five different heads, according to their systematic value. The first head includes
those which are evidently to be considered as varieties, in the narrower sense of the word,
as previously given. The second and third heads indicate the real progressive elementary species,
first those which are as strong as the parent-species, and secondly a group of weaker types,
apparently not destined to be successful. Under the fourth head I shall include some inconstant
forms, and under the last head those that are organically incomplete.

Of varieties with a negative attribute, or real retrograde varieties, I have found three, all
of them in a flowering condition in the field. I have given them the names of laevifolia, brevistylis
and nanella.

[527] The laevifolia, or smooth-leaved variety, was one of the very first deviating types found
in the original field. This was in the summer of 1887, seventeen years ago. It formed a little
group of plants growing at some distance from the main body, in the same field. I found some
rosettes and some flowering stems and sowed some seed in the fall. The variety has been quite
constant in the field, neither increasing in number of individual plants nor changing its place,
though now closely surrounded by other Lamarckianas. In my garden it has proved to be constant
from seed, never reverting to the original lamarckiana, provided intercrossing was excluded.

It is chiefly distinguished from Lamarck's evening-primrose by its smooth leaves, as the name
indicates. The leaves of the original form show numerous sinuosities in their blades, not at
the edge, but anywhere between the veins. The blade shows numbers of convexities on either
surface, the whole surface being undulated in this manner; it lacks also the brightness of
the ordinary evening-primrose or Oenothera biennis.

These undulations are lacking or at least very rare on the leaves of the new laevifolia. Ordinarily
they are wholly wanting, but at times single leaves with slight manifestations of this [528]
character may make their appearance. They warn us that the capacity for such sinuosities is
not wholly lost, but only lies dormant in the new variety. It is reduced to a latent state,
exactly as are the apparently lost characters of so many ordinary horticultural varieties.

Lacking the undulations, the laevifolia leaves are smooth and bright. They are a little narrower
and more slender than those of the lamarckiana. The convexities and concavities of leaves are
said to be useful in dry seasons, but during wet summers, such as those of the last few years,
they must be considered as very harmful, as they retain some of the water which falls on the
plants, prolonging the action of the water on the leaves. This is considered by some writers
to be of some utility after slight showers, but was observed to be a source of weakness during
wet weather in my garden, preventing the leaves from drying. Whether the laevifolia would do
better under such circumstances, remains to be tested.

The flowers of the laevifolia are also in a slight degree different from those of lamarckiana.
The yellow color is paler and the petals are smoother. Later, in the fall, on the weaker side
branches these differences increase. The laevifolia petals become smaller and are often not
emarginated at the apex, becoming ovate [529] instead of obcordate. This shape is often the
most easily recognized and most striking mark of the variety. In respect to the reproductive
organs, the fertility and abundance of good seed, the laevifolia is by no means inferior or
superior to the original species.

O. brevistylis, or the short-styled evening primrose, is the most curious of all my new forms.
It has very short styles, which bring the stigmas only up to the throat of the calyx tube,
instead of upwards of the anthers. The stigmas themselves are of a different shape, more flattened
and not cylindrical. The pollen falls from the anthers abundantly on them, and germinates in
the ordinary manner.

The ovary which in lamarckiana and in all other new forms is wholly underneath the calyx-tube,
is here only partially so. This tube is inserted at some distance under its summit. The insertion
divides the ovary into two parts: an upper and a lower one. The upper part is much reduced
in breadth and somewhat attenuated, simulating a prolongation of the base of the style. The
lower part is also reduced, but in another manner. At the time of flowering it is like the
ovary of lamarckiana, neither smaller nor larger. But it is reached by only a very few pollen-tubes,
and is therefore always incompletely fertilized. It does [530] not fall off after the fading
away of the flower, as unfertilized ovaries usually do; neither does it grow out, nor assume
the upright position of normal capsules. It is checked in its development, and at the time
of ripening it is nearly of the same length as in the beginning. Many of them contain no good
seeds at all; from others I have succeeded in saving only a hundred seeds from thousands of
capsules.

These seeds, if purely pollinated, and with the exclusion of the visits of insects, reproduce
the variety, entirely and without any reversion to the lamarckiana type.

Correlated with the detailed structures is the form of the flower-buds. They lack the high
stigma placed above the anthers, which in the lamarckiana, by the vigorous growth of the style,
extends the calyx and renders the flower bud thinner and more slender. Those of the brevistylis
are therefore broader and more swollen. It is quite easy to distinguish the individuals by
this striking character alone, although it differs from the parent in other particulars.

The leaves of the O. brevistylis are more rounded at the tip, but the difference is only pronounced
at times, slightly in the adult rosettes, but more clearly on the growing summits of the stems
and branches. By this character, the plants [531] may be discerned among the others, some weeks
before the flowers begin to show themselves. But the character by which the plants may be most
easily recognized from a distance in the field is the failure of the fruits. They were found
there nearly every year in varying, but always small numbers.

Leaving the short-styled primrose, we come now to the last of our group of retrograde varieties.
This is the O. nanella, or the dwarf, and is a most attractive little plant. It is very short
of stature, reaching often a height of only 20-30 cm., or less than one-fourth of that of the
parent. It commences flowering at a height of 10-15 cm., while the parent-form often measures
nearly a meter at this stage of its development. Being so very dwarfed the large flowers are
all the more striking. They are hardly inferior to those of the lamarckiana, and agree with
them in structure. When they fade away the spike is rapidly lengthened, and often becomes much
longer than the lower or vegetative part of the stem.

The dwarfs are one of the most common mutations in my garden, and were observed in the native
locality and also grown from seeds saved there. Once produced they are absolutely constant.
I have tried many thousands of seeds from various dwarf mutants, and never observed [532] any
trace of reversion to the lamarckiana type. I have also cultivated them in successive generations
with the same result. In a former lecture we have seen that contrary to the general run of
horticultural belief, varieties are as constant as the best species, if kept free from hybrid
admixtures. This is a general rule, and the exceptions, or cases of atavism are extremely rare.
In this respect it is of great interest to observe that this constancy is not an acquired quality,
but is to be considered as innate, because it is already fully developed at the very moment
when the original mutation takes place.

From its first leaves to the rosette period, and through this to the lengthening of the stem,
the dwarfs are easily distinguished from any other of their congeners. The most remarkable
feature is the shape of the leaves. They are broader and shorter, and especially at the base
they are broadened in such a way as to become apparently sessile. The stalk is very brittle,
and any rough treatment may cause the leaves to break off. The young seedlings are recognizable
by the shape of the first two or three leaves, and when more of them are produced, the rosettes
become dense and strikingly different from others. Later leaves are more nearly like the parent-type,
but the petioles remain short. The bases of the blades are frequently [533] almost cordate,
the laminae themselves varying from oblong-ovate to ovate in outline. The stems are often quite
unbranched, or branched only at the base of the spike. Strong secondary stems are a striking
attribute of the lamarckiana parent, but they are lacking, or almost so in the dwarfs. The
stem is straight and short, and this, combined with the large crown of bright flowers, makes
the dwarfs eminently suitable for bed or border plants. Unfortunately they are very sensitive,
especially to wet weather.

Oenothera gigas and O. rubrinervis, or the giant, and the red-veined evening-primroses, are
the names given to two robust and stout species, which seem to be equal in vigor to the parent-plant,
while diverging from it in striking characters. Both are true elementary species, differentiated
from lamarckiana in nearly all their organs and qualities, but not showing any preponderating
character of a retrograde nature. Their differences may be compared with those of the elementary
species of other genera, as for instance, of Draba, or of violets, as will be seen by their
description.

The giant evening-primrose, though not taller in stature than O. lamarckiana, deserves its
name because it is so much stouter in all respects. [534] The stems are robust, often with
twice the diameter of lamarckiana throughout. The internodes are shorter, and the leaves more
numerous, covering the stems with a denser foliage. This shortness of the internodes extends
itself to the spike, and for this reason the flowers and fruits grow closer together than on
the parent-plant. Hence the crown of bright flowers, opening each evening, is more dense and
more strikingly brilliant, so much the more so as the individual flowers are markedly larger
than those of the parents. In connection with these characters, the flower-buds are seen to
be much stouter than those of lamarckiana. The fruits attain only half the normal size, but
are broader and contain fewer, but larger seeds.

The rubrinervis is in many respects a counterpart to the gigasv, but its stature is more slender.
The spikes and flowers are those of the lamarckianav, but the bracts are narrower. Red veins
and red streaks on the fruits afford a striking differentiating mark, though they are not absolutely
lacking in the parent-species. A red hue may be seen on the calyx, and even the yellow color
of the petals is somewhat deepened in the same way. Young plants are often marked by the pale
red tinge of the mid-veins, but in adult rosettes, or from lack of sunshine, this hue is often
very faint.

[535] The leaves are narrow, and a curious feature of this species is the great brittleness
of the leaves and stems, especially in annual individuals, especially in those that make their
stem and flowers in the first year. High turgidity and weak development of the mechanical and
supporting tissues are the anatomical cause of this deficiency, the bast-fibers showing thinner
walls than those of the parent-type under the microscope. Young stems of rubrinervis may be
broken off by a sharp stroke, and show a smooth rupture across all the tissues, while those
of lamarckiana are very tough and strong.

