Silence was but little interrupted in the coach.  Now and then M. du Maine would say that he
was very innocent of the accusation which had been formed against him; that he was much attached
to the King, and not less so to M. le Duc d'Orleans, who could not but recognise it; and that
it was very unfortunate his Royal Highness should put faith in his enemies (he never named
anybody).  All this was said in a broken manner, and amid many sighs; from time to time signs
of the cross; low mumblings as of prayers; and plunges at each church or each cross they passed.
He took his meals in the coach, ate very little, was alone at night, but with good precautions
taken.  He did not know until the morrow that he was going to Dourlens.  He showed no emotion
thereupon.  All these details I learnt from Favancourt, whom I knew very well, and who was
in the Musketeers when I served in that corps.

At the moment of the arrest of M. du Maine, Ancenis, captain of the body- guard, arrested the
Duchesse du Maine in her house in the Rue St. Honore.  A lieutenant, and an exempt of the foot
body-guards, with other troops, took possession of the house at the same time, and guarded
the doors.  The compliment of the Duc d'Ancenis was sharply received.  Madame du Maine wished
to take away some caskets.  Ancenis objected.  She demanded, at the least, her jewels; altercations
very strong on one side, very modest on the other: but she was obliged to yield.  She raged
at the violence done to a person of her rank, without saying anything too disobliging to M.
d'Ancenis, and without naming anybody.  She delayed her departure as long as she could, despite
the instances of d'Ancenis, who at last presented his hand to her, and politely, but firmly,
said she must go.  She found at her door two six-horse coaches, the sight of which much shocked
her.  She was obliged, however, to mount.  Ancenis placed himself by her side, the lieutenant
and the exempt of the guard in front, two chambermaids whom she had chosen were in the other
coach, with her apparel, which had been examined.  The ramparts were followed, the principal
streets avoided; there was no stir, and at this she could not restrain her surprise and vexation,
or check a tear, declaiming by fits and starts against the violence done her.  She complained
of the rough coach, the indignity it cast upon her, and from time to time asked where she was
being led to.  She was simply told that she would sleep at Essonne, nothing more.  Her three
guardians maintained profound silence. At night all possible precautions were taken.  When
she set out the next day, the Duc d'Ancenis took leave of her, and left her to the lieutenant
and to the exempt of the body-guards, with troops to conduct her.  She asked where they were
leading her to: he simply replied, "To Fontainebleau."  The disquietude of Madame du Maine
augmented as she left Paris farther behind, but when she found herself in Burgundy, and knew
at last she was to go to Dijon, she stormed at a fine rate.

It was worse when she was forced to enter the castle, and found herself the prisoner of M.
le Duc.  Fury suffocated her.  She raged against her nephew, and the horrible place chosen
for her.  Nevertheless, after her first transports, she returned to herself, and began to comprehend
that she was in no place and no condition to play the fury.  Her extreme rage she kept to herself,
affected nothing but indifference for all, and disdainful security.  The King's lieutenant
of the castle, absolutely devoted to M. le Duc, kept her fast, and closely watched her and
her chambermaids.  The Prince de Dombes and the Comte d'Eu (her sons) were at the same time
exiled to Eu, where a gentleman in ordinary always was near them; Mademoiselle du Maine was
sent to Maubuisson.

