 Here, then, we have a primary and potent cause of the slight efficacy of legal punishments,
in the picturing of the many chances of escape. First there is the chance of not being detected,
which is the most powerful spring of all contemplated crime: then the chance, in case of detection,
that the evidence will not be strong enough, that the judges will be merciful, or will be deceived,
that judgment may be averted amidst the intricacies of the trial, that clemency may either reverse
or mitigate the sentence. The President steamer, coming
in the opposite direction, is known to have encountered the same weather, and was doubtless
lost, not having since been heard of. II.

Since punishments, instead of being the simple panacea of crime which popular opinion, encouraged
by the opinions of classical writers on crime and of legislators, imagine them, are very limited
in their deterrent influence, it is natural that the criminal sociologist should look for other
means of social defence in the actual study of crimes and of their
natural origin.

We are taught by the everyday experience of the family, the school,
associations of men and women, and the history of social life, that
in order to lessen the danger of outbreaks of passion it is more useful
to take them in their origin, and in flank, than to meet them when
they have gathered force.

Bentham relates that in England the delays caused by hard-drinking couriers, who used to be heavily
fined without any good result, were obviated by combining passenger traffic with the postal
service. Employers of labour secure industry and the most productive work far more easily by
offering a share of the realised profits than by a system of fines. In the German universities,
academic jealousies and intolerance have been in great measure overcome by paying the professors
in proportion to the number of their pupils, so that the Faculties find it to their interest
to engage and encourage the best professors, in order to attract as many students as possible.
Thus the activity and zeal of professors, magistrates, and officials would be stimulated if
their remuneration depended not only on the automatic test of seniority, but also on the progress
displayed by publications, sentences not reversed, settlements not
cancelled, and the like. It is better to regulate the disturbing restlessness
of children by timely diversions rather than by attempting to repress
them in a manner injurious to their physical and moral health. We remained in New York from the
4th to the 10th of this month, which time was occupied in visiting different friends of the
anti-slavery cause, and in receiving calls at our hotel. 

And finally, seeing that in spite of the threefold panacea of every prison system (isolation, work,
and instruction, especially religious instruction) relapses still increased, it was understood
that it might not be very useful to subject a man for months or years to the monastic life of
Trappist brothers, in these monstrous human hives (which Bentham brought to the notice of the
French Constituent Assembly under the name of`` panopticons''), and to discharge him from prison
at the end of his term, and plunge him into all the temptations of an atmosphere to which
his lungs had become disaccustomed.
Then the`` progressive system'' was introduced, first in England,
where it was devised by Maconochie, next in Ireland, which has given
it a name, alternated with that of Sir W. Crofton. The
administration of criminal justice, on the contrary, is demanded of any one we chance to come
across, be he grocer or man of independent means, painter or pensioner, who may never in his
life have witnessed a criminal tria