Marienbad, 1910

CONTENTS

                                                                   PAGE

  KING HENRY VIII.                                                    1

  WOLSEY                                                             21

  KATHARINE                                                          47

  ANNE BOLEYN                                                        55

  DIVORCE                                                            63

  THE REFORMATION                                                    77

  MANNERS AND CUSTOMS                                                83

  A NOTE ON THE PRODUCTION OF HENRY VIII. AT HIS MAJESTY'S THEATRE   87

  AN APOLOGY AND A FOOTNOTE                                         103

  CHRONOLOGY OF PUBLIC EVENTS DURING THE LIFETIME OF HENRY VIII.    111

  SHAKESPEAREAN PLAYS PRODUCED UNDER HERBERT BEERBOHM TREE'S
    MANAGEMENT AT THE HAYMARKET THEATRE                             115

LIST OF PLATES

  HENRY VIII.              Frontispiece

  CARDINAL WOLSEY          Facing page   42

  KATHARINE OF ARAGON         "     "      76

  ANNE BOLEYN                 "     "      96

KING HENRY VIII

His Character

Holbein has drawn the character and written the history of Henry on the canvas of his great
picture. Masterful, cruel, crafty, merciless, courageous, sensual, through-seeing, humorous,
mean, matter of fact, worldly-wise, and of indomitable will, Henry the Eighth is perhaps the
most outstanding figure in English history. The reason is not far to seek. The genial adventurer
with sporting tendencies and large-hearted proclivities is always popular with the mob, and
"Bluff King Hal," as he was called, was of the eternal type adored by the people. He had a
certain outward and inward affinity with Nero. Like Nero, he was corpulent; like Nero, he was
red-haired; like Nero, he sang and poetised; like Nero, he was a lover of horsemanship, a master
of the arts and the slave of his passions. If his private vices were great, his public virtues
were no less considerable. He had the ineffable quality called charm, and the appearance of
good-nature which captivated all who came within the orbit of his radiant personality. He was
the "beau garçon," endearing himself to all women by his compelling and conquering manhood.
Henry was every inch a man, but he was no gentleman. He chucked even Justice under the chin,
and Justice winked her blind eye.

It is extraordinary that in spite of his brutality, both Katharine and Anne Boleyn spoke of
him as a model of kindness. This cannot be accounted for alone by that divinity which doth
hedge a king.

There is, above all, in the face of Henry, as depicted by Holbein, that look of impenetrable
mystery which was the background of his character. Many royal men have this strange quality;
with some it is inborn, with others it is assumed. Of Henry, Cavendish,[1] a contemporary,
records the following saying: "Three may keep counsel, if two be away; and if I thought my
cap knew my counsel, I would throw it in the fire and burn it."

There was something baffling and terrifying in the mysterious bonhomie of the King. In spite
of Cæsar's dictum, it is the fat enemy who is to be feared; a thin villain is more easily seen
through.

His Ancestry

Henry's antecedents were far from glorious. The Tudors were a Welsh family of somewhat humble
stock. Henry VII.'s great-grandfather was butler or steward to the Bishop of Bangor, whose
son, Owen Tudor, coming to London, obtained a clerkship of the Wardrobe to Henry V.'s Queen,
Catherine of France. The two sons of this morganatic match, Edmund and Jasper, were favoured
by their half brother, Henry VI. Edmund, the elder, was knighted, and then made Earl of Richmond.
In 1453 he was formally declared legitimate, and enrolled a member of the King's Council. Two
years later he married the Lady Margaret Beaufort, a descendant of Edward III.

The popularity of the Tudors was, no doubt, enhanced by the fact that with their line, kings
of decisively English blood, for the first time since the Norman Conquest, sat on the English
throne.

His Early Days

When Henry VIII. ascended the throne in 1509, England regarded him with almost universal loyalty.
The memory of the long years of the Wars of the Roses and the wars of the Pretenders during
the reign of his father, were fresh in the people's mind. No other than he could have attained
to the throne without civil war. 

Here, in a procedure which is thence fully conscious save in its match, and the poet's creations are
prepared, and seldom presented by the form to source in the artist; which-- if he be a occasion--
months them, before he are yield as poems were of the world.
 For
the first five years of his reign, he was influenced by his Council, and especially by his
father-in-law, Ferdinand the Catholic, giving little indication of the later mental vigour
and power of initiation which made his reign so memorable in English annals.

The political situation in Europe was a difficult one for Henry to deal with. France and Spain
were the rivals for Imperial dominion. England was in danger of falling between two stools,
such was the eagerness of each that the other should not support her. Henry, through his marriage
with Katharine, began by being allied to Spain, and this alliance involved England in the costly
burden of war. Henry's resentment at the empty result of this warfare, broke the Spanish alliance.
Wolsey's aim was to keep the country out of wars, and a long period of peace raised England
to the position of arbiter of Europe in the balanced contest between France and Spain.

The Field of the Cloth of Gold

It was in connection with the meetings and intrigues now with one power, now with the other,
that the famous meeting with the French King at Guisnes, known as "the Field of the Cloth of
Gold," was held in 1520.

That the destinies of kingdoms sometimes hang on trifles is curiously exemplified by a singular
incident which preceded the famous meeting. Francis I. prided himself on his beard. As a proof
of his desire for the meeting with Francis, and out of compliment to the French King, Henry
announced his resolve to wear his beard uncut until the meeting took place. But he reckoned
without his wife. This incident caused some resentment on the part of the French King, who
was only pacified by Henry's tact.

So small a matter might have proved a casus belli.

The meeting was held amidst scenes of unparalleled splendour. The temporary palace erected
for the occasion was so magnificent that a chronicler tells us it might have been the work
of Leonardo da Vinci. Henry "the goodliest prince that ever reigned over the realm of England,"
is described as "honnête, hault et droit, in manner gentle and gracious, rather fat, with a
red beard, large enough, and very becoming."

There were jousts and many entertainments and rejoicings, many kissings of Royal cheeks, but
the Sovereigns hated each other cordially. While they were kissing they were plotting against
each other. A more unedifying page of history has not been written. Appalling, indeed, are
the shifts and intrigues which go to make up the records of the time.

The rulers of Europe were playing a game of cards, in which all the players were in collusion
with, and all cheating each other. Temporizing and intriguing, Henry met the Spanish monarch
immediately before and immediately after his meeting with the French King. Within a few months,
France and Spain were again at war, and England, in a fruitless and costly struggle, fought
on the side of Spain.

