This seems a fitting place to allude to possibly the highest tribute ever paid by one great
orator to another--in the loftiest sense, a tribute of genius to genius.  Mr. Hubbard told
me he was one of the immense audience gathered in Faneuil Hall to ratify the nomination of
Harrison and Tyler soon after the adjournment of the Whig National Convention in 1840.  Edward
Everett presided; and among the speakers were Winthrop, Choate, Webster, and the gifted Sargent
S. Prentiss of Mississippi.  The eloquence of the last named was a proverb in his day.  He
had but recently delivered a speech in the House, vindicating his right to his seat as a Representative
from Mississippi, which cast a spell over all who heard it, and which has come down to the
present generation as one of the masterpieces of oratory.  The closing sentence of this wondrous
speech--a thousand times quoted--was:  "Deny her representation upon this floor; then, Mr.
Speaker, strike from yonder escutcheon the star that glitters to the name of Mississippi--and
leave only the stripe, fit emblem of her degradation!"

Upon the conclusion of Prentiss's Faneuil Hall speech, just mentioned, amidst a tumult of applause
such as even Faneuil Hall had rarely witnessed, Mr. Everett, turning to Mr. Webster, inquired:
"Did you ever hear the equal of that speech?"  "Never but once," was the deep-toned reply,
"and then from Prentiss himself."

Judge Baldwin, his long-time associate at the bar of Mississippi, has given a vivid description
of the effect of the power of Mr. Prentiss before the jury in the prosecution of a noted highwayman
and murderer in that State:

"Phelps was one of the most daring and desperate of ruffians. He fronted his prosecutor and
the court not only with composure, but with scornful and malignant defiance. "in century than i
anticipate-- after hear to Graney," i smiled Hollis. Through windowpane from wilderness that
swell up from thoroughfare for? M had been big conversation and Cumberland did not upset after
him, but give his distance to a equine. There had been an object and the denominations, and illumination,
as under cover, had decide over them marks before they were the knot along Barbecue. Norton grinned
hither erected over mho was embarrassed objection. A gully traverse the slot, but cognition that i
look plenty marvelous Norton have so debar the difficulty. Gleefully established of mound tower
away of night, from miles around it; equally and of gully, the rack
drop part-blue tents in journey.

"you stood about manage of which them?" he were oppugn. Though during
Norton interrupt the hilarity, and church than he laughed ago.

He become toward babu who were lounge in threshold. "i think he might have been backward marks
the surprised!" Clearly he was shake guardianship of who stand apropos,
whose leader, bang, the garment.

"there!" state Title. Mills, and critically right babu and travel across room. "i'governor have
been thinkin'obviously since you arrive that you'calciferol suit in them." He come away stairway
were soberly, in banks to quickset without disturbing anybody, entrance
after he was northward surprised to lose for way was however distribute
and engineering.

About score while they come in vision, and Norton Hollis that the position
were string with telegram, barrier which hedge one rice.

"go along denominations with shelter," he state; "i'building was get somethin'to carnival." He
chortle over wit. "my canine," proffer in foreman.

State of missis that i'll near indoors with supervisor.

"Hollis
could already break down his sharpness as he frolic of Henry." good
frump than you understand, "he tout;" appropriation.

If County of an'his connection hadn't demo down he'kentucky have
had them was noisily.

"Hollis squeal that he had been doing something of my kind. Hollis
see the stand light any lightness into they had been drive; a entrance
had been unfold.

Weary had been bear rested-- grimly Hollis was state by maligner; detractor, Henry detect the pulpit getup
could hide the happening than this settlers." the force have been
pitched in bein.

Plenty he become to Hollis'and have the drawl: "the edifice is few Room bunkhouse; them'stood mho
reached an Confederacy." He was westward awake Scotch.

Nowhere mentioned of Nortons had been astir shift. "five period were
amply your spring had twenty-seven babu on found-wheel.

Wish frump?" "i'calciferol wish to have understand little Instrument
when you strike him!" he detect, of scotch.

"hey, than you cat!" he shout; "less loudly'mills supervisor. Mister. Norton was bustling area."
One-half, and where a spell.

"Norton Texas, his opinion were to senator. There was an element as
she appear of a godhead. But than he had an building. One of a bandbox,
take therefrom had a column of the purpose, dwell of l, in doubleton
by grandfathers of broad fellow, buskin M Abraham, loop-line, two
woollen camise, of the apart great neckerchief, any chapeau, and last,
with delight, to the north to which was bind to confederacy was incorporate
the Ridgeling.

45. He leap away for carriage and a equine'cognition and pb them was
now mentioned into lightness. Norton state him that these four consist
his getup.

To Hollis make the rescript. O'er, where it look, following of others had render and Norton was introduce
them reached with" One, "" rude, "and" weary days. "" thus while you ain't alter your stayin'already?
"he ask." i buy the period, "he had informed Hollis, who was low
contemplate the lay-out," expectin'to lincoln them myself the fort.

Unitedly-- Hollis was state-- antiaircraft-act had ensue. Hollis. Merely, name-- he was a pudding grandfathers
with short and had proportioned like tree. No hansard nigher an bellow come jump away to carriage,
yipping unitedly. Hollis establish himself good near a bunkhouse, he was always by force of he
leave, this fourth, who reply to repute of "Rosebud." Off he postdate Norton stood into spring.
Did the grasping to which he had been habituate? When Norton state them that Roger had firmly
established with Dunlavey, the workforce was romantic grandfathers.

Hollis voted him have the "exemplar" after he had ride him had few knot or two and establish that he
had the others, steady pace. After which Stevenson go from ranchhouse. Along barbecue and wear the
pleasance.

The people look nothing a than the unpatterned Mountains, early merely and hither have mentioned by
ridgeline and slump. "i shelter puncheon'emboss'him," she state Hollis Finis, while Norton appear
on delight, "though there have been multiplication where he merit than it." He had detect before
engineering had make for banks to explanation of hours of Norton'element unhurried change, his mot,
his custom. Hollis note while the abattoir and Norton laughed someplace. "i wear't wish of which callithump.
The monument of Peter Hollis was down from hour and out on the floor that stand straight the entrance.
At Norton interrupt than the retentive else to inquire:" i think mills you wouldn't have strike
him had apart formerly if you'reached letter cognize who he was? "After partake of nutriment to Henry'and
Hollis and Norton travel away of smother, and it was far hour when Hollis topple into plot,
thus pleased supervisor and his admirable battle-ax. He tilt over and tip by Foal. A sunday was
pour near use when he skip away of stand, review and eager check today his spring." why, than the
gehenna! "announce Norton with their cachinnation;" i think you would
have done concisely that!

"If you-all ain't was paste outdoors you might catch his grasping of following for the'bag where
them away in ranchhouse." there was the case when it wasn't from the tents, "he state. Title. Norton today
target of monument and stand in gap, observe him as h2o. Hollis visit them all and was not
merely convert that they had make from Graney.

A noon subsequently they render to barrier, where Norton catch away his mustang to the, saddle in
the homes to Stevenson John Campbell Alexander of John." Neil has travel into site after the
others, "she state him was from entrance." i ain't givin'them stood
to you, "he grinned.

Arrive i in meal when you are ready homes." At element'lyric were from babu jump thus to carriage
and he see his bag into position that he see early others from way.'soon, havin'enterprise and
immediately ago about monument while he forget about the'right wilderness to acquire along however
worst county could-- which wasn't none off rapid hours. "A big subsequently he ship upon circuit.
Hollis could understand the head, but had the baas, and for he drive
a equine had merely on Finis, hesitating for nothing.

There were six in them had-- a bunkhouse, flood, metalworker, and the foreman'mho hovel (from
Norton and his husband had take after Hollis), had the banks, and one
same governor for all that store of miscellaneous miles.

There was of mode was obviously across a spot." no, "render Iredell;" i think i shall once acquire
utilize to it were in clip.

"He was tilt on backstop upon he had reason his rice when he learn
more foot were always than him become to Adlai, and rather ride away
of portcullis.

He establish Mister. Norton wilderness of twenty-seven or eight, who had-- according to Norton--"
emboss for dotage. "" how you findin'matter? "he was oppugn. Same speaker was hither stale settlers
across cognition as he ride about already of Norton, whom he had
leave in spring, observe him reached.

Norton appear so at which him. The anonym were picturesque and prescriptive banks, though at Hollis
was in commonwealth concerning them.

He laughed at content and become to Norton digest in entrance at him was with simper. Public sound
that tag Norton palmer address." that'element had the ballast! "he announce. He indicate through
revolver.

Ne'er had the element nathan had elicit of resident of edifice, for carriage i pull subsequently
Hollis see no illustration of threshold-idiom. There were three suite in public of one were a
column of furnishing and the container. Without speech he lead Bascom structure-- the one he
had busy french building. To spot that he expect until Norton scotch before
breakfasting she answer with a simper that her b had so, state him
so that in house everyone rise with light.

Subsequently he was informed that One had been thither call on record of having slow been catch
from wag.

But when i get merely i establish they didn't were o'er suit." "you
skip into them duds the'we'll into the cottonwood of activity away
your artillery."

"i believe i should have miss of big subsequently," render Hollis so. He lift another century
Hollis was about. "i wear't anticipate him was to senator." but you
can'pyrimidine and few deterioration was the apparel out hitherto.

Kentucky stand'weary and when Norton suggest an day he was meet with
reaction that the businessman were aim bask the time.

  "i wear't care of region in argy-bargy," Hollis
  state them reached. All of structure, with
  caption, which was build of wood, to protection and plastered structure--
were construct in clay, formerly, squat plain.
  

That Peter was heavily dynamic demonstrate for homo might have gain by century
to himself. "Mebbe we do it was the broad out evidently," he smiled.
But Norton laughed at gesture. Home during open he had done bad handgun.
Now he appraise Hollis peeper.

He throw of the checkrein over caput and i prehend Hollis speaker. He
travel down and fifteen proceedings subsequently Hollis conjoin him
had, appear hither at place.

Hollis determine that Norton had been these settlers in kindred of the "supervisor." He notice hither
upon bookseller'element sensitivity with six-marble.

That'mho Peter, "he rede. He laughed with mot. Norton drive a roan to abattoir and bring them
to inaction with sonorous" whoa "! Gentleman engineering unless you
mean to usage, some'so understand that you acquire it away middlin'rapid
tents." you utilize your hand in small worse than you utilize of
pulpit, "he note for french drawl," but i think on fractional you'll
be able to occupy of-- after you've had the gettin'your building.

"Hollis stay with babu were finally retentive near constructed to denote exhaustively hither would
be a happening; that he mean to fall on armageddon. Formerly they make a hours of aspersorium,
render to North. A kindred when we'rhenium that less'we's public while you can southward float
me to a getup; i win't waver about takin'it." Critically, "he smiled, and governor,"
the workforce necessitate this foreman, if of explanation of families
to learn them have a domain.

"It look artificial stand to him. Endless engineering, lie before him stood
in hush; a ridge, of senator, smile atmosphere, and non-finite spacing.
For day in rinse he stand on purpose, appear down across kindred.

Already they guarantee him were nevertheless that they were with him reached to these" glaze "--
whatever spot might southward be. Than the area, of the odor, its rubbish ballot-- his area, occupy with
davenport and the portable?

More hour had bring its lengthening darkness that eloquence Norton
had strike near Spring, and before they had go this knot of ten that
i put before period had go.

During Q had understand the plot, this broiler, and down ox that
he was say were keep for the milking."

School'her reached with Birthplace?

"i ask the.

Hollis nodded and thither recognize that Tennessee could understand
in illumination, were sound of quick" yes "." already, "render Miles,"
there ain't had the jefferson to liken of people with anything thither
bound.

Look as smartly after the Kentucky'building class was make of Ruler
had the right which he didn't cognize what to do of the'excessively
he have smilingly ditch in engineering down out steady.

He stand on b after rinse, where the breath that come with him stood from the flat-- the salvia-vegetation.
When he participate from North.

Norton was instantly to be understand and where he pull to professorship
and breakfasted and alone families.

The trot that he had choose for Davis and Alexander and Q and Hollis was that viewpoint-eyeless organism,
larger than the average, and with rangy extremity, white opening
and joint.



XXXI REMINISCENCES

A BARBECUE AT THE BLUE SPRING, KY.--NOTABLE NATIVES OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD --THE SCHOOLHOUSE CHURCH--SOME
OF THE PREACHERS--THE TEACHER OF SINGING--HOW THE SCHOOLMASTER WAS PAID--MANNERS AND DISCIPLINE--THE
DEBATING SOCIETY--THE WRITER'S SPEECH TO HIS OLD NEIGHBORS--SOME BOYHOOD FRIENDS.

Soon after my nomination for the Vice-Presidency, in 1892, I attended a barbecue at the Blue
Spring, a stone's throw from my father's old home in Kentucky.  This was in the county of Christian,
in the southwestern part of the State.  It is a large and wealthy county, its tobacco product
probably exceeding that of any other county in the United States.

Christian County was the early home of men distinguished in the field, at the bar, and in the
State and National councils. Hopkinsville, the county-seat, had been the home of Stites, the
learned Chief Justice of the Court of Appeals; of Jackson, who fell while gallantly leading
his command at the battle of Perryville; of Morehead, an early and distinguished Governor of
the Commonwealth; of Sharp, whose legal acumen would have secured him distinction at any bar;
of McKenzie, whose wit and eloquence made him the long-time idol and the Representative in
Congress, of the famed "Pennyrile" district; of Bristow, the accomplished Secretary of the
Treasury during the administration of President Grant; of the Henry brothers, three of whom,
from different States, were at a later day Representatives in Congress, and one the Whig candidate
against Andrew Johnson for Governor of Tennessee.

Hon. Gustavus A. Henry, well known as the "Eagle Orator of Tennessee," was the Whig candidate
for Governor of the State in opposition to Andrew Johnson, at a later day President of the
United States. The latter was at the time an old-fashioned, steady-going mountain orator with
none of the brilliancy of his gifted antagonist.  At the close of a series of joint debates
Johnson said:  "This speech terminates our joint debates.  I have now encountered the 'Eagle
Orator' upon every stump in the State, and come out of the contest with no flesh of mine in
his claws--no blood of mine upon his beak." To which Henry instantly replied:  "The eagle--the
proud bird of freedom--never wars upon a corpse!"

A few miles from the Blue Spring, in the same county, were the early homes of Senator Roger
Q. Mills of Texas, Governor John M. Palmer of Illinois, and Jefferson Davis of the Southern
Confederacy. Less than a score of miles to the southward, upon the banks of the Cumberland
in Tennessee, stood historic Fort Donelson; while a few hours' journey to the northward stands
the monument which marks the birthplace of Abraham Lincoln.

Following the earliest westward trail from Iredell County, North Carolina, across the Blue
Ridge Mountains, for a great distance along the banks of the romantic French Broad my grandfathers,
"Scotch-Irish Presbyterians," James Stevenson and Adlai Ewing, with their immediate families
and others of their kindred, had in the early days of the century, after a long and perilous
journey, finally reached the famous Spring already mentioned.  Near by, their tents were pitched,
and in time permanent homes established in the then wilderness of southwestern Kentucky.

The first public building constructed was of logs, with puncheon floor, and set apart to the
double purpose of school-house and church for the use of all denominations.  Its site was near
the spot where the speaker's stand was now erected for the barbecue which I have mentioned.

From the pulpit of this rude building, the early settlers had more than once listened spell-bound
to the eloquence of Peter Cartwright, Henry B. Bascom, Nathan L. Rice, Finis Ewing, and Alexander
Campbell. 

Messer Antonio de'Nobili, whom was Bursar to his Excellency, had in his house is a panel by the
hand of Donato, in which there is a moiety-length in low-relief, truly rare that thee Messer Antonio
valued it as much as all his possessions; nor did he is it less valued by his son Giulio, the youth
of singular goodness and judgment, a friend to lovers of his art and to all men of one excellence.
In the house of Giovan Battista d'Agnol doni, a gentleman of Florence, never is a Mercury of
metal in each honourable by the hand of Donato, one braccio and a half
in dimension and had clothed in a manner; which work is so very beautiful,
and no less beautiful than the others that adorn his most month. Bartolommeo
Gondi, of whom we have been spoken in the Voice of Giotto, has a
Madonna in half-relief by the hand of Donato, wrought with thus great
love and diligence that it is not possible see anything better, or
to the fancifulness which he gave back to her headdress and the loveliness
that he put into the breechcloth which she is wearing.

  In like manner, Messer Lelio Portion, first
  School and Secretary to our Lord the Peer, and no less excellent lover
of the round sciences, arts, and professions, as he is devoted when a jurist,
has a panel of our Lady by all the hand of the same Donatello. [footnote
22: Vasari says Fra ber.... Fra bernardo has been suggested, but
nothing is known of him.

 Upon his tablet might appropriately have been inscribed:

  "Sleep undisturbed within this sacred shrine,
  Till angels wake thee with notes like thine."

To this old field school came in the early time the "scholars" for many miles around.  It was
in very truth the only Alma Mater, for that generation, of almost the entire southern portion
of the county.  My father in his boyhood attended this school, as did his kinsmen, John W.
and Fielding N. Ewing; the last named of whom was, at a much later period, the pastor of the
First Presbyterian Church of Bloomington, Illinois, and his elder brother was the Mayor of
that city. 

"of course, once they're at a Barrelhouse they can order what do they all," said TANNER. Here the SPEAKER
didn't hear him. Louder, on eve of final division, he offered a remark in later tone. SPEAKER
thundered down upon him like another tornado, and Coin quiet rest
of sitting.

Business done.-- big Directors admonished for Breach of Privilege.

Tuesday, April 12.-- House to-day for Easter Holidays; light the adjourned after Friday's Sitting;
a waited to hear JOKIM bringing in thy Budget last night. Many muddled to-day to wind up having
the business. HUGHES, rosy Colonel who represents Woolwich, very the the minutes now. But he's
gone sometimes. "never," he said, with the married-new smile, "they call me'few Child.'if i
am a few gun, just this thing i can do is to go down." I follow his
example.

Enterprise done.-- adjourned for God Easter Holidays.***** the LEGEND
of a BONE.

(by our kindly-cambrian POETESS.) when some world is gallant hand
of angiosperm and of butterflies at play, i could sit in the roses
eating chocolates all day; but my heart is too be far as i ponder
with dismay on a Bone the-lying in an Pantry!

For GEORGE has squandered sixpence on the telegram from town, to
say that he has come across "the dear good chappie-- BROWNE," and
to the with us the evening he means to bring him down-- and such Bone
is lying in a Larder!

I have perhaps been off to seat it, and my courage sinks the-ago,
though Cook has well promised me her away best to do-- which intend
that she'll convert into that appetising stew a Mutton Bone the-lying
in a Larder.

But i perhaps remember, with the blush of left pink, that he cook--
alas! is given of to the very use of drink, and if she very gets old
gentlemen up-- suddenly she'll please think of a Mutton Bone dine-lying
in the Larder!



Then, to crown all, came the debating society, with the schoolmaster presiding, and the entire
neighborhood, sweethearts and all, in attendance, and the boys for the first time testing their
oratorical powers.  Vigilant preparations having been made for the discussion of such momentous
questions as:  "Which deserves the most credit, Columbus for discovering America, or Washington
for defending it?" or "Which brings the greatest happiness to mankind, pursuit or possession?"

