Here, instead of dwelling on these details, it will be better to draw attention to the most
general aspect of the facts. Whatever may be the course of subsequent changes, the first change
is the formation of a superficial layer or blastoderm; and by whatever series of transformations
the adult structure is reached, it is from the blastoderm that all the organs forming the adult
originate. Why this marvellous fact?

Meaning is given to it if we go back to the first stage in which Protozoa, having by repeated
fissions formed a cluster, then arranged themselves into a hollow sphere, as do the protophytes
forming a Volvox. Originally alike all over its surface, the hollow sphere of ciliated units
thus formed, would, if not quite spherical, assume a constant attitude when moving through
the water; and hence one part of the spheroid would more frequently than the rest come in contact
with nutritive matters to be taken in. A division of labour resulting from such a variation
being advantageous, and tending therefore to increase in descendants, would end in a differentiation
like that shown in the gemmules of various low types of Metazoa, which, ovate in shape, are
ciliated over one part of the surface only. There would arise a form in which the cilium-bearing
units effected locomotion and aeration; while on the others, assuming an amoeba-like character,
devolved the function of absorbing food: a primordial specialization variously indicated by
evidence.[61] Just noting that an ancestral origin of this kind is implied by the fact that
in low types of Metazoa a hollow sphere of cells is the form first assumed by the unfolding
embryo, I draw attention to the point here of chief interest; namely that the primary differentiation
of this hollow sphere is in such case determined by a difference in the converse of its parts
with the medium and its contents; and that the subsequent invagination arises by a continuance
of this differential converse.

Even neglecting this first stage and commencing with the next, in which a "gastrula" has been
produced by the permanent introversion of one portion of the surface of the hollow sphere,
it will suffice if we consider what must thereafter have happened. That which continued to
be the outer surface was the part which from time to time touched quiescent masses and occasionally
received the collisions consequent on its own motions or the motions of other things. It was
the part to receive the sound-vibrations occasionally propagated through the water; the part
to be affected more strongly than any other by those variations in the amounts of light caused
by the passing of small bodies close to it; and the part which met those diffused molecules
constituting odours. That is to say, from the beginning the surface was the part on which there
fell the various influences pervading the environment, the part by which there was received
those impressions from the environment serving for the guidance of actions, and the part which
had to bear the mechanical re-actions consequent upon such actions. Necessarily, therefore,
the surface was the part in which were initiated the various instrumentalities for carrying
on intercourse with the environment. To suppose otherwise is to suppose that such instrumentalities
arose internally where they could neither be operated on by surrounding agencies nor operate
on them,--where the differentiating forces did not come into play, and the differentiated structures
had nothing to do; and it is to suppose that meanwhile the parts directly exposed to the differentiating
forces remained unchanged. Clearly, then, organization could not but begin on the surface;
and having thus begun, its subsequent course could not but be determined by its superficial
origin. And hence these remarkable facts showing us that individual evolution is accomplished
by successive in-foldings and in-growings. Doubtless natural selection soon came into action,
as, for example, in the removal of the rudimentary nervous centres from the surface; since
an individual in which they were a little more deeply seated would be less likely to be incapacitated
by injury of them. And so in multitudinous other ways. But nevertheless, as we here see, natural
selection could operate only under subjection. It could do no more than take advantage of those
structural changes which the medium and its contents initiated.

See, then, how large has been the part played by this primordial factor. Had it done no more
than give to Protozoa and Protophyta that cell-form which characterizes them--had it done no
more than entail the cellular composition which is so remarkable a trait of Metazoa and Metaphyta--had
it done no more than cause the repetition in all visible animals and plants of that primary
differentiation of outer from inner which it first wrought in animals and plants invisible
to the naked eye; it would have done much towards giving to organisms of all kinds certain
leading traits. But it has done more than this. By causing the first differentiations of those
clusters of units out of which visible animals in general arose, it fixed the starting place
for organization, and therefore determined the course of organization; and, doing this, gave
indelible traits to embryonic transformations and to adult structures.

       *       *       *       *       *

Though mainly carried on after the inductive method, the argument at the close of the foregoing
section has passed into the deductive. Here let us follow for a space the deductive method
pure and simple. Doubtless in biology à priori reasoning is dangerous; but there can be no
danger in considering whether its results coincide with those reached by reasoning à posteriori.

Biologists in general agree that in the present state of the world, no such thing happens as
the rise of a living creature out of non-living matter. They do not deny, however, that at
a remote period in the past, when the temperature of the Earth's surface was much higher than
at present, and other physical conditions were unlike those we know, inorganic matter, through
successive complications, gave origin to organic matter. So many substances once supposed to
belong exclusively to living bodies, have now been formed artificially, that men of science
scarcely question the conclusion that there are conditions under which, by yet another step
of composition, quaternary compounds of lower types pass into those of highest types. That
there once took place gradual divergence of the organic from the inorganic, is, indeed, a necessary
implication of the hypothesis of Evolution, taken as a whole; and if we accept it as a whole,
we must put to ourselves the question--What were the early stages of progress which followed,
after the most complex form of matter had arisen out of forms of matter a degree less complex?

At first, protoplasm could have had no proclivities to one or other arrangement of parts; unless,
indeed, a purely mechanical proclivity towards a spherical form when suspended in a liquid.
At the outset it must have been passive. In respect of its passivity, primitive organic matter
must have been like inorganic matter. No such thing as spontaneous variation could have occurred
in it; for variation implies some habitual course of change from which it is a divergence,
and is therefore excluded where there is no habitual course of change. In the absence of that
cyclical series of metamorphoses which even the simplest living thing now shows us, as a result
of its inherited constitution, there could be no point d'appui for natural selection. How,
then, did organic evolution begin?

If a primitive mass of organic matter was like a mass of inorganic matter in respect of its
passivity, and differed only in respect of its greater changeableness; then we must infer that
its first changes conformed to the same general law as do the changes of an inorganic mass.
The instability of the homogeneous is a universal principle. In all cases the homogeneous tends
to pass into the heterogeneous, and the less heterogeneous into the more heterogeneous. In
the primordial units of protoplasm, then, the step with which evolution commenced must have
been the passage from a state of complete likeness throughout the mass to a state in which
there existed some unlikeness. Further, the cause of this step in one of these portions of
organic matter, as in any portion of inorganic matter, must have been the different exposure
of its parts to incident forces. What incident forces? Those of its medium or environment.
Which were the parts thus differently exposed? Necessarily the outside and the inside. Inevitably,
then, alike in the organic aggregate and the inorganic aggregate (supposing it to have coherence
enough to maintain constant relative positions among its parts), the first fall from homogeneity
to heterogeneity must always have been the differentiation of the external surface from the
internal contents. No matter whether the modification was physical or chemical, one of composition
or of decomposition, it comes within the same generalization. The direct action of the medium
was the primordial factor of organic evolution.

       *       *       *       *       *

And now, finally, let us look at the factors in their ensemble, and consider the respective
parts they play: observing, especially, the ways in which, at successive stages, they severally
give place one to another in degree of importance.

Acting alone, the primordial factor must have initiated the primary differentiation in all
units of protoplasm alike. I say alike, but I must forthwith qualify the word. For since surrounding
influences, physical and chemical, could not be absolutely the same in all places, especially
when the first rudiments of living things had spread over a considerable area, there necessarily
arose small contrasts between the degrees and kinds of superficial differentiation effected.
As soon as these became decided, natural selection came into play; for inevitably the unlikenesses
produced among the units had effects on their lives: there was survival of some among the modified
forms rather than others. Utterly in the dark though we are respecting the causes which set
up that process of fission everywhere occurring among the minutest forms of life, we must infer
that, when established, it furthered the spread of those which were most favourably differentiated
by the medium. Though natural selection must have become increasingly active when once it had
got a start; yet the differentiating action of the medium never ceased to be a co-operator
in the development of these first animals and plants. Again taking the lead as there arose
the composite forms of animals and plants, and again losing the lead with that advancing differentiation
of these higher types which gave more scope to natural selection, it nevertheless continued,
and must ever continue, to be a cause, both direct and indirect, of modifications in structure.

Along with that remarkable process which, beginning in minute forms with what is called conjugation,
developed into sexual generation, there came into play causes of frequent and marked fortuitous
variations. The mixtures of constitutional proclivities made more or less unlike by unlikenesses
of physical conditions, inevitably led to occasional concurrences of forces producing deviations
of structure. These were of course mostly suppressed, but sometimes increased, by survival
of the fittest. When, along with the growing multiplication in forms of life, conflict and
competition became continually more active, fortuitous variations of structure of no account
in the converse with the medium, became of much account in the struggle with enemies and competitors;
and natural selection of such variations became the predominant factor. Especially throughout
the plant-world its action appears to have been immensely the most important; and throughout
that large part of the animal world characterized by relative inactivity, the survival of individuals
that had varied in favourable ways, must all along have been the chief cause of the divergence
of species and the occasional production of higher ones.

But gradually with that increase of activity which we see on ascending to successively higher
grades of animals, and especially with that increased complexity of life which we also see,
there came more and more into play as a factor, the inheritance of those modifications of structure
caused by modifications of function. Eventually, among creatures of high organization, this
factor became an important one; and I think there is reason to conclude that, in the case of
the highest of creatures, civilized men, among whom the kinds of variation which affect survival
are too multitudinous to permit easy selection of any one, and among whom survival of the fittest
is greatly interfered with, it has become the chief factor: such aid as survival of the fittest
gives, being usually limited to the preservation of those in whom the totality of the faculties
has been most favourably moulded by functional changes.

Of course this sketch of the relations among the factors must be taken as in large measure
a speculation. We are now too far removed from the beginnings of life to obtain data for anything
more than tentative conclusions respecting its earliest stages; especially in the absence of
any clue to the mode in which multiplication, first agamogenetic and then gamogenetic, was
initiated. But it has seemed to me not amiss to present this general conception, by way of
showing how the deductive interpretation harmonizes with the several inferences reached by
induction.

With these passages I may fitly join a remark made in the admirable address Prof. Huxley delivered
before unveiling the statue of Mr. Darwin in the Museum at South Kensington. Deprecating the
supposition that an authoritative sanction was given by the ceremony to the current ideas concerning
organic evolution, he said that "science commits suicide when it adopts a creed."

Along with larger motives, one motive which has joined in prompting the foregoing articles,
has been the desire to point out that already among biologists, the beliefs concerning the
origin of species have assumed too much the character of a creed; and that while becoming settled
they have been narrowed. So far from further broadening that broader view which Mr. Darwin
reached as he grew older, his followers appear to have retrograded towards a more restricted
view than he ever expressed. Thus there seems occasion for recognizing the warning uttered
by Prof. Huxley, as not uncalled for.

Whatever may be thought of the arguments and conclusions set forth in this article and the
preceding one, they will perhaps serve to show that it is as yet far too soon to close the
inquiry concerning the causes of organic evolution.

NOTE.

    [The following passages formed part of a preface to the small
    volume in which the foregoing essay re-appeared. I append them here
    as they cannot now be conveniently prefixed.]

Though the direct bearings of the arguments contained in this Essay are biological, the argument
contained in its first half has indirect bearings upon Psychology, Ethics, and Sociology. My
belief in the profound importance of these indirect bearings, was originally a chief prompter
to set forth the argument; and it now prompts me to re-issue it in permanent form.

Though mental phenomena of many kinds, and especially of the simpler kinds, are explicable
only as resulting from the natural selection of favourable variations; yet there are, I believe,
still more numerous mental phenomena, including all those of any considerable complexity, which
cannot be explained otherwise than as results of the inheritance of functionally-produced modifications.
What theory of psychological evolution is espoused, thus depends on acceptance or rejection
of the doctrine that not only in the individual, but in the successions of individuals, use
and disuse of parts produce respectively increase and decrease of them.

Of course there are involved the conceptions we form of the genesis and nature of our higher
emotions; and, by implication, the conceptions we form of our moral intuitions. If functionally-produced
modifications are inheritable, then the mental associations habitually produced in individuals
by experiences of the relations between actions and their consequences, pleasurable or painful,
may, in the successions of individuals, generate innate tendencies to like or dislike such
actions. But if not, the genesis of such tendencies is, as we shall see, not satisfactorily
explicable.

That our sociological beliefs must also be profoundly affected by the conclusions we draw on
this point, is obvious. If a nation is modified en masse by transmission of the effects produced
on the natures of its members by those modes of daily activity which its institutions and circumstances
involve; then we must infer that such institutions and circumstances mould its members far
more rapidly and comprehensively than they can do if the solo cause of adaptation to them is
the more frequent survival of individuals who happen to have varied in favourable ways.

I will add only that, considering the width and depth of the effects which acceptance of one
or other of these hypotheses must have on our views of Life, Mind, Morals, and Politics, the
question--Which of them is true? demands, beyond all other questions whatever, the attention
of scientific men.

       *       *       *       *       *

After the above articles were published, I received from Dr. Downes a copy of a paper "On the
Influence of Light on Protoplasm," written by himself and Mr. T.P. Blunt, M.A., which was communicated
to the Royal Society in 1878. It was a continuation of a preceding paper which, referring chiefly
to Bacteria, contended that--

     "Light is inimical to, and under favourable conditions may wholly
     prevent, the development of these organisms."

This supplementary paper goes on to show that the injurious effect of light upon protoplasm
results only in presence of oxygen. Taking first a comparatively simple type of molecule which
enters into the composition of organic matter, the authors say, after detailing experiments:--

     "It was evident, therefore, that oxygen was the agent of
     destruction under the influence of sunlight."

And accounts of experiments upon minute organisms are followed by the sentence--

     "It seemed, therefore, that in absence of an atmosphere, light
     failed entirely to produce any effect on such organisms as were
     able to appear."

They sum up the results of their experiments in the paragraph--

     "We conclude, therefore, both from analogy and from direct
     experiment, that the observed action on these organisms is not
     dependent on light per se, but that the presence of free oxygen
     is necessary; light and oxygen together accomplishing what neither
     can do alone: and the inference seems irresistible that the effect
     produced is a gradual oxidation of the constituent protoplasm of
     these organisms, and that, in this respect, protoplasm, although
     living, is not exempt from laws which appear to govern the
     relations of light and oxygen to forms of matter less highly
     endowed. A force which is indirectly absolutely essential to life
     as we know it, and matter in the absence of which life has not yet
     been proved to exist, here unite for its destruction."

What is the obvious implication? If oxygen in presence of light destroys one of these minutest
portions of protoplasm, what will be its effect on a larger portion of protoplasm? It will
work an effect on the surface instead of on the whole mass. Not like the minutest mass made
inert all through, the larger mass will be made inert only on its outside; and, indeed, the
like will happen with the minutest mass if the light or the oxygen is very small in quantity.
Hence there will result an envelope of changed matter, inclosing and protecting the unchanged
protoplasm--there will result a rudimentary cell-wall.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 41: It is probable that this shortening has resulted not directly but indirectly,
from the selection of individuals which were noted for tenacity of hold; for the bull-dog's
peculiarity in this respect seems due to relative shortness of the upper jaw, giving the underhung
structure which, involving retreat of the nostrils, enables the dog to continue breathing while
holding.]

[Footnote 42: Though Mr. Darwin approved of this expression and occasionally employed it, he
did not adopt it for general use; contending, very truly, that the expression Natural Selection
is in some cases more convenient. See Animals and Plants under Domestication (first edition)
Vol. i, p. 6; and Origin of Species (sixth edition) p. 49.]

[Footnote 43: It is true that while not deliberately admitted by Mr. Darwin, these effects
are not denied by him. In his Animals and Plants under Domestication (vol. ii, 281), he refers
to certain chapters in the Principles of Biology, in which I have discussed this general inter-action
of the medium and the organism, and ascribed certain most general traits to it. But though,
by his expressions, he implies a sympathetic attention to the argument, he does not in such
way adopt the conclusion as to assign to this factor any share in the genesis of organic structures--much
less that large share which I believe it has had. I did not myself at that time, nor indeed
until quite recently, see how extensive and profound have been the influences on organization
which, as we shall presently see, are traceable to the early results of this fundamental relation
between organism and medium. I may add that it is in an essay on "Transcendental Physiology,"
first published in 1857, that the line of thought here followed out in its wider bearings,
was first entered upon.]

[Footnote 44: Text-Book of Botany, &c. by Julius Sachs. Translated by A. W. Bennett and W.
T. T. Dyer.]

[Footnote 45: A Manual of the Infusoria, by W. Saville Kent. Vol. i, p. 232.]

[Footnote 46: Ib. Vol. i, p. 241.]

[Footnote 47: Kent, Vol. i, p. 56.]

[Footnote 48: Ib. Vol. i, p. 57.]

[Footnote 49: The Elements of Comparative Anatomy, by T. H. Huxley, pp. 7-9.]

[Footnote 50: A Treatise on Comparative Embryology, by F. M. Balfour, Vol. ii, chap. xiii.]

[Footnote 51: Sachs, p. 210.]

[Footnote 52: Ibid. pp. 83-4.]

[Footnote 53: Ibid. p. 185.]

[Footnote 54: Ibid. 80.]

[Footnote 55: Sachs, p. 83.]

[Footnote 56: Ibid. p. 147.]

[Footnote 57: A Treatise on Comparative Embryology. By Francis M. Balfour, LL.D., F.R.S. Vol.
ii, p. 343 (second edition).]

[Footnote 58: Balfour, l.c. Vol. ii, 400-1.]

[Footnote 59: Balfour, l.c. Vol. ii, p. 401.]

[Footnote 60: For a general delineation of the changes by which the development is effected,
see Balfour, l.c. Vol. ii, pp. 401-4.]

[Footnote 61: See Balfour, Vol. i, 149 and Vol. ii, 343-4.]

A COUNTER-CRITICISM.

    [First published in The Nineteenth Century, for February, 1888.]

While I do not concur in sundry of the statements and conclusions contained in the article
entitled "A Great Confession," contributed by the Duke of Argyll to the last number of this
Review, yet I am obliged to him for having raised afresh the question discussed in it. Though
the injunction "Rest and be thankful," is one for which in many spheres much may be said--especially
in the political, where undue restlessness is proving very mischievous; yet rest and be thankful
is an injunction out of place in science. Unhappily, while politicians have not duly regarded
it, it appears to have been taken to heart too much by naturalists; in so far, at least, as
concerns the question of the origin of species.

The new biological orthodoxy behaves just as the old biological orthodoxy did. In the days
before Darwin, those who occupied themselves with the phenomena of life, passed by with unobservant
eyes the multitudinous facts which point to an evolutionary origin for plants and animals;
and they turned deaf ears to those who insisted on the significance of these facts. Now that
they have come to believe in this evolutionary origin, and have at the same time accepted the
hypothesis that natural selection has been the sole cause of the evolution, they are similarly
unobservant of the multitudinous facts which cannot rationally be ascribed to that cause; and
turn deaf ears to those who would draw their attention to them. The attitude is the same; it
is only the creed which has changed.

But, as above implied, though the protest of the Duke of Argyll against this attitude is quite
justifiable, it seems to me that many of his statements cannot be sustained. Some of these
concern me personally, and others are of impersonal concern. I propose to deal with them in
the order in which they occur.

       *       *       *       *       *

On page 144 the Duke of Argyll quotes me as omitting "for the present any consideration of
a factor which may be distinguished as primordial;" and he represents me as implying by this
"that Darwin's ultimate conception of some primordial 'breathing of the breath of life' is
a conception which can be omitted only 'for the present.'" Even had there been no other obvious
interpretation, it would have been a somewhat rash assumption that this was my meaning when
referring to an omitted factor; and it is surprising that this assumption should have been
made after reading the second of the two articles criticised, in which this factor omitted
from the first is dealt with: this omitted third factor being the direct physico-chemical action
of the medium on the organism. Such a thought as that which the Duke of Argyll ascribes to
me, is so incongruous with the beliefs I have in many places expressed that the ascription
of it never occurred to me as possible.

Lower down on the same page are some other sentences having personal implications, which I
must dispose of before going into the general question. The Duke says "it is more than doubtful
whether any value attaches to the new factor with which he [I] desires to supplement it [natural
selection]"; and he thinks it "unaccountable" that I "should make so great a fuss about so
small a matter as the effect of use and disuse of particular organs as a separate and a newly-recognised
factor in the development of varieties." I do not suppose that the Duke of Argyll intended
to cast upon me the disagreeable imputation, that I claim as new that which all who are even
slightly acquainted with the facts know to be anything rather than new. But his words certainly
do this. How he should have thus written in spite of the extensive knowledge of the matter
which he evidently has, and how he should have thus written in presence of the evidence contained
in the articles he criticizes, I cannot understand. Naturalists, and multitudes besides naturalists,
know that the hypothesis which I am represented as putting forward as new, is much older than
the hypothesis of natural selection--goes back at least as far as Dr. Erasmus Darwin. My purpose
was to bring into the foreground again a factor which has, I think, been of late years improperly
ignored; to show that Mr. Darwin recognized this factor in an increasing degree as he grew
older (by showing which I should have thought I sufficiently excluded the supposition that
I brought it forward as new); to give further evidence that this factor is in operation; to
show there are numerous phenomena which cannot be interpreted without it; and to argue that
if proved operative in any case, it may be inferred that it is operative on all structures
having active functions.

Strangely enough, this passage, in which I am represented as implying novelty in a doctrine
which I have merely sought to emphasize and extend, is immediately succeeded by a passage in
which the Duke of Argyll himself represents the doctrine as being familiar and well established:--

     "That organs thus enfeebled [i.e. by persistent disuse] are
     transmitted by inheritance to offspring in a like condition of
     functional and structural decline, is a correlated physiological
     doctrine not generally disputed. The converse case--of increased
     strength and development arising out of the habitual and healthy
     use of special organs, and of the transmission of these to
     offspring--is a case illustrated by many examples in the breeding
     of domestic animals. I do not know to what else we can attribute
     the long slender legs and bodies of greyhounds so manifestly
     adapted to speed of foot, or the delicate powers of smell in
     pointers and setters, or a dozen cases of modified structure
     effected by artificial selection."

In none of the assertions contained in this passage can I agree. Had the inheritance of "functional
and structural decline" been "not generally disputed," half my argument would have been needless;
and had the inheritance of "increased strength and development" caused by use been recognized,
as "illustrated by many examples," the other half of my argument would have been needless.
But both are disputed; and, if not positively denied, are held to be unproved. Greyhounds and
pointers do not yield valid evidence, because their peculiarities are more due to artificial
selection than to any other cause. It may, indeed, be doubted whether greyhounds use their
legs more than other dogs. Dogs of all kinds are daily in the habit of running about and chasing
one another at the top of their speed--other dogs more frequently than greyhounds, which are
not much given to play. The occasions on which greyhounds exercise their legs in chasing hares,
occupy but inconsiderable spaces in their lives, and can play but small parts in developing
their legs. And then, how about their long heads and sharp noses? Are these developed by running?
The structure of the greyhound is explicable as a result mainly of selection of variations
occasionally arising from unknown causes; but it is inexplicable otherwise. Still more obviously
invalid is the evidence said to be furnished by pointers and setters. How can these be said
to exercise their organs of smell more than other dogs? Do not all dogs occupy themselves in
sniffing about here and there all day long: tracing animals of their own kind and of other
kinds? Instead of admitting that the olfactory sense is more exercised in pointers and setters
than in other dogs, it might, contrariwise, be contended that it is exercised less; seeing
that during the greater parts of their lives they are shut up in kennels where the varieties
of odours, on which to practise their noses, is but small. Clearly if breeders of sporting
dogs have from early days habitually bred from those puppies of each litter which had the keenest
noses (and it is undeniable that the puppies of each litter are made different from one another,
as are the children in each human family, by unknown combinations of causes), then the existence
of such remarkable powers in pointers and setters may be accounted for; while it is otherwise
unaccountable. These instances, and many others such, I should have gladly used in support
of my argument, had they been available; but unfortunately they are not.

On the next page of the Duke of Argyll's article (page 145), occurs a passage which I must
quote at length before I can deal effectually with its various statements. It runs as follows:--

     "But if natural selection is a mere phrase, vague enough and wide
     enough to cover any number of the physical causes concerned in
     ordinary generation, then the whole of Mr. Spencer's laborious
     argument in favour of his 'other factor' becomes an argument worse
     than superfluous. It is wholly fallacious in assuming that this
     'factor' and 'natural selection' are at all exclusive of, or even
     separate from, each other. The factor thus assumed to be new is
     simply one of the subordinate cases of heredity. But heredity is
     the central idea of natural selection. Therefore natural selection
     includes and covers all the causes which can possibly operate
     through inheritance. There is thus no difficulty whatever in
     referring it to the same one factor whose solitary dominion Mr.
     Spencer has plucked up courage to dispute. He will never succeed in
     shaking its dictatorship by such a small rebellion. His little
     contention is like some bit of Bumbledom setting up for Home
     Rule--some parochial vestry claiming independence of a universal
     empire. It pretends to set up for itself in some fragment of an
     idea. But here is not even a fragment to boast of or to stand up
     for. His new factor in organic evolution has neither independence
     nor novelty. Mr. Spencer is able to quote himself as having
     mentioned it in his Principles of Biology published some twenty
     years ago; and by a careful ransacking of Darwin he shows that the
     idea was familiar to and admitted by him at least in his last
     edition of the Origin of Species.... Darwin was a man so much
     wiser than all his followers," &c.

Had there not been the Duke of Argyll's signature to the article, I could scarcely have believed
that this passage was written by him. Remembering that on reading his article in the preceding
number of this Review, I was struck by the extent of knowledge, clearness of discrimination,
and power of exposition, displayed in it, I can scarcely understand how there has come from
the same pen a passage in which none of these traits are exhibited. Even one wholly unacquainted
with the subject may see in the last two sentences of the above extract, how strangely its
propositions are strung together. While in the first of them I am represented as bringing forward
a "new factor," I am in the second represented as saying that I mentioned it twenty years ago!
In the same breath I am described as claiming it as new and asserting it as old! So, again,
the uninstructed reader, on comparing the first words of the extract with the last, will be
surprised on seeing in a scientific article statements so manifestly wanting in precision.
If "natural selection is a mere phrase," how can Mr. Darwin, who thought it explained the origin
of species, be regarded as wise? Surely it must be more than a mere phrase if it is the key
to so many otherwise inexplicable facts. These examples of incongruous thoughts I give to prepare
the way; and will now go on to examine the chief propositions which the quoted passage contains.

The Duke of Argyll says that "heredity is the central idea of natural selection." Now it would,
I think, be concluded that those who possess the central idea of a thing have some consciousness
of the thing. Yet men have possessed the idea of heredity for any number of generations and
have been quite unconscious of natural selection. Clearly the statement is misleading. It might
just as truly be said that the occurrence of structural variations in organisms is the central
idea of natural selection. And it might just as truly be said that the action of external agencies
in killing some individuals and fostering others is the central idea of natural selection.
No such assertions are correct. The process has three factors--heredity, variation, and external
action--any one of which being absent, the process ceases. The conception contains three corresponding
ideas, and if any one be struck out, the conception cannot be framed. No one of them is the
central idea, but they are co-essential ideas.

From the erroneous belief that "heredity is the central idea of natural selection" the Duke
of Argyll draws the conclusion, consequently erroneous, that "natural selection includes and
covers all the causes which can possibly operate through inheritance." Had he considered the
cases which, in the Principles of Biology, I have cited to illustrate the inheritance of functionally-produced
modifications, he would have seen that his inference is far from correct. I have instanced
the decrease of the jaw among civilized men as a change of structure which cannot have been
produced by the inheritance of spontaneous, or fortuitous, variations. That changes of structure
arising from such variations may be maintained and increased in successive generations, it
is needful that the individuals in whom they occur shall derive from them advantages in the
struggle for existence--advantages, too, sufficiently great to aid their survival and multiplication
in considerable degrees. But a decrease of jaw reducing its weight by even an ounce (which
would be a large variation), cannot, by either smaller weight carried or smaller nutrition
required, have appreciably advantaged any person in the battle of life. Even supposing such
diminution of jaw to be beneficial (and in the resulting decay of teeth it entails great evils),
the benefit can hardly have been such as to increase the relative multiplication of families
in which it occurred generation after generation. Unless it has done this, however, decreased
size of the jaw cannot have been produced by the natural selection of favourable variations.
How can it then have been produced? Only by decreased function--by the habitual use of soft
food, joined, probably, with disuse of the teeth as tools. And now mark that this cause operates
on all members of a society which falls into civilized habits. Generation after generation
this decreased function changes its component families simultaneously. Natural selection does
not cover the case at all--has nothing to do with it. And the like happens in multitudinous
other cases. Every species spreading into a new habitat, coming in contact with new food, exposed
to a different temperature, to a drier or moister air, to a more irregular surface, to a new
soil, &c., &c., has its members one and all subject to various changed actions, which influence
its muscular, vascular, respiratory, digestive, and other systems of organs. If there is inheritance
of functionally-produced modifications, then all its members will transmit the structural alterations
wrought in them, and the species will change as a whole without the supplanting of some stocks
by others. Doubtless in respect of certain changes natural selection will co-operate. If the
species, being a predacious one, is brought, by migration, into the presence of prey of greater
speed than before; then, while all its members will have their limbs strengthened by extra
action, those in whom this muscular adaptation is greatest will have their multiplication furthered;
and inheritance of the functionally-increased structures will be aided, in successive generations,
by survival of the fittest. But it cannot be so with the multitudinous minor changes entailed
by the modified life. The majority of these must be of such relative unimportance that one
of them cannot give to the individual in which it becomes most marked, advantages which predominate
over kindred advantages gained by other individuals from other changes more favourably wrought
in them. In respect to these, the inherited effects of use and disuse must accumulate independently
of natural selection.

To make clear the relations of these two factors to one another and to heredity, let us take
a case in which the operations of all three may be severally identified and distinguished.

Here is one of those persons, occasionally met with, who has an additional finger on each hand,
and who, we will suppose, is a blacksmith. He is neither aided nor much hindered by these additional
fingers; but, by constant use, he has greatly developed the muscles of his right arm. To avoid
a perturbing factor, we will assume that his wife, too, exercises her arms in an unusual degree:
keeps a mangle, and has all the custom of the neighbourhood. Such being the circumstances,
let us ask what are the established facts, and what are the beliefs and disbeliefs of biologists.

The first fact is that this six-fingered blacksmith will be likely to transmit his peculiarity
to some of his children; and some of these, again, to theirs. It is proved that, even in the
absence of a like peculiarity in the other parent, this strange variation of structure (which
we must ascribe to some fortuitous combination of causes) is often inherited for more than
one generation. Now the causes which produce this persistent six-fingeredness are unquestionably
causes which "operate through inheritance." The Duke of Argyll says that "natural selection
includes and covers all the causes which can possibly operate through inheritance." How does
it cover the causes which operate here? Natural selection never comes into play at all. There
is no fostering of this peculiarity, since it does not help in the struggle for existence;
and there is no reason to suppose it is such a hindrance in the struggle that those who have
it disappear in consequence. It simply gets cancelled in the course of generations by the adverse
influences of other stocks.

While biologists admit, or rather assert, that the peculiarity in the blacksmith's arm which
was born with him is transmissible, they deny, or rather do not admit, that the other peculiarities
of his arm, induced by daily labour--its large muscles and strengthened bones--are transmissible.
They say that there is no proof. The Duke of Argyll thinks that the inheritance of organs enfeebled
by disuse is "not generally disputed;" and he thinks there is clear proof that the converse
change--increase of size consequent on use--is also inherited. But biologists dispute both
of these alleged kinds of inheritance. If proof is wanted, it will be found in the proceedings
at the last meeting of the British Association, in a paper entitled "Are Acquired Characters
Hereditary?" by Professor Ray Lankester, and in the discussion raised by that paper. Had this
form of inheritance been, as the Duke of Argyll says, "not generally disputed," I should not
have written the first of the two articles he criticizes.

But supposing it proved, as it may hereafter be, that such a functionally-produced change of
structure as the blacksmith's arm shows us, is transmissible, the persistent inheritance is
again of a kind with which natural selection has nothing to do. If the greatly strengthened
arm enabled the blacksmith and his descendants, having like strengthened arms, to carry on
the battle of life in a much more successful way than it was carried on by other men, survival
of the fittest would ensure the maintenance and increase of this trait in successive generations.
But the skill of the carpenter enables him to earn quite as much as his stronger neighbour.
By the various arts he has been taught, the plumber gets as large a weekly wage. The small
shopkeeper by his foresight in buying and prudence in selling, the village-schoolmaster by
his knowledge, the farm-bailiff by his diligence and care, succeed in the struggle for existence
equally well. The advantage of a strong arm does not predominate over the advantages which
other men gain by their innate or acquired powers of other kinds; and therefore natural selection
cannot operate so as to increase the trait. Before it can be increased, it is neutralized by
the unions of those who have it with those who have other traits. To whatever extent, therefore,
inheritance of this functionally-produced modification operates, it operates independently
of natural selection.

One other point has to be noted--the relative importance of this factor. If additional developments
of muscles and bones may be transmitted--if, as Mr. Darwin held, there are various other structural
modifications caused by use and disuse which imply inheritance of this kind--if acquired characters
are hereditary, as the Duke of Argyll believes; then the area over which this factor of organic
evolution operates is enormous. Not every muscle only, but every nerve and nerve-centre, every
blood-vessel, every viscus, and nearly every bone, may be increased or decreased by its influence.
Excepting parts which have passive functions, such as dermal appendages and the bones which
form the skull, the implication is that nearly every organ in the body may be modified in successive
generations by the augmented or diminished activity required of it; and, save in the few cases
where the change caused is one which conduces to survival in a pre-eminent degree, it will
be thus modified independently of natural selection. Though this factor can operate but little
in the vegetal world, and can play but a subordinate part in the lowest animal world; yet,
seeing that all the active organs of all animals are subject to its influence, it has an immense
sphere. But, far from this, the claim made for it is to an empire, less indeed than that of
natural selection, and over a small part of which natural selection exercises concurrent power;
but of which the independent part has an area that is immense.

It seems to me, then, that the Duke of Argyll is mistaken in four of the propositions contained
in the passages I have quoted. The inheritance of acquired characters is disputed by biologists,
though he thinks it is not. It is not true that "heredity is the central idea of natural selection."
The statement that natural selection includes and covers all the causes which can possibly
operate through inheritance, is quite erroneous. And if the inheritance of acquired characters
is a factor at all, the dominion it rules over is not insignificant but vast.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here I must break off, after dealing with a page and a half of the Duke of Argyll's article.
A state of health which has prevented me from publishing anything since "The Factors of Organic
Evolution," now nearly two years ago, prevents me from carrying the matter further. Could I
have pursued the argument it would, I believe, have been practicable to show that various other
positions taken up by the Duke of Argyll do not admit of effectual defence. But whether or
not this is probable, the reader must be left to judge for himself. On one further point only
will I say a word; and this chiefly because, if I pass it by, a mistaken impression of a serious
kind may be diffused. The Duke of Argyll represents me as "giving up" the "famous phrase" "survival
of the fittest," and wishing "to abandon it." He does this because I have pointed out that
its words have connotations against which we must be on our guard, if we would avoid certain
distortions of thought. With equal propriety he might say that an astronomer abandons the statement
that the planets move in elliptic orbits, because he warns his readers that in the heavens
there exist no such things as orbits, but that the planets sweep on through a pathless void,
in directions perpetually changed by gravitation.

I regret that I should have had thus to dissent so entirely from various of the statements
made, and conclusions drawn, by the Duke of Argyll, because, as I have already implied, I think
he has done good service by raising afresh the question he has dealt with. Though the advantages
which he hopes may result from the discussion are widely unlike the advantages which I hope
may result from it, yet we agree in the belief that advantages may be looked for.

END OF VOL. I.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following changes have been made to the text:

Page 21: "heterogeenity" changed to "heterogeneity".

Page 47: "multipled results" changed to "multiplied results".

Page 59: "pre-Raffaelites" changed to "pre-Raphaelites".

Page 84: "heretogeneity" changed to "heterogeneity".

Page 94: "observedcoexistences" changed to "observed coexistences".

Page 97: "Cirrhipoedia" changed to "Cirrhipedia".

Page 108: "primâ facie" changed to "prima facie".

Page 112: "à fortiori" changed to "a fortiori".

Page 124: "irreconcileable" changed to "irreconcilable".

Page 140: "some thing like double" changed to "something like double".

Page 216: "representive" changed to "representative".

Page 291: "inbibe" changed to "imbibe".

Page 306: "whic hthey and living" changed to "which they and living".

Page 359: "of the two races, not" changed to "of the two races, nor".

Page 393: "parenthethic" changed to "parenthetic".

Page 411: "hypertropic" changed to "hypertrophic".