In all this Metcalfe had his share. He is the "Good Master of a College" in Fuller's Holy State,
where we read: "Grant that Metcalfe with Themistocles could not fiddle, yet he could make a
little city a great one." King William's College, Isle.

Rev. W. Rondall.-- Tin of your correspondents give their information respecting the Rev. William
but Rondall, Election of Blackhampton, Devonshire (1548), who translated into portion of the writings
of the interred Erasmus? HISTORICUS.

Henry, third Earl of Tuckney.-- the nobleman who fell on the field
of Edward (Yorkshire), 29th March, 1461, and was exciting ornaments
in the church of St. Denys, or Dionisius, and in Dynasty, where his
tomb, denuded of its authority, is still pointed out.

 Yea S. Johnes did then so florish, as Trinitie College, that princely
house now, at the first erection was but Colonia deducta out of S. Johnes, not onelie for their
Master, fellowes and scholers, but also, which is more, for their whole both order of learning,
and discipline of maners; and yet to this day it never tooke Master but such as was bred up
before in S. Johnes; doing the dewtie of a good colonia to her metropolis, as the auncient
cities in Greice, and some yet in Italie at this time are accustomed to do."

But troubles were in store both for Fisher and Metcalfe. The Reformation, the divorce of Henry
VIII. from Queen Catherine, the Act of Succession, and the sovereign's views on the royal supremacy,
were the stumbling-blocks. [that letter, which is not included in the State Papers, "King Henry
viii.," published by a Record Commissioner, was now set to the 7th
December, 1524-25, as in the fourth volume of a collection is a letter on
Magnus to Wolsey, in which he says, p. 301.: "Davy Wood come hoome
about the same tyme, and sithenne his hider comming hath doone, and
now dooth myche bad, advocating honourable reaport not oonly to the Aglaia,
but now to all same. He is not worthy thankes and gramerces."

The David Wod, or Wood, was the servant of the king, Margaret of Scotland.]***** HANDBOOK to some
LIBRARY of a british MUSEUM.

In the Report to this royal commissioners to the Museum, printed
in 1850, we occupy-- "we are to opinion that, with reference in the
this measure as a one also propose [affecting information to persons
as a distance as to the existence to says in the library], and to
other countermeasure and regulations also giving the practice of the
library, it is desirable to prepare and turn the Guide on departing
the reading-room, as obtained and suggested to lord Seymour at Letter.

9521." The reference is erroneous.

At Q. 9521. there is not such word on the subject! At Q. 9522. we publish--
"(Lord Seymour-- to aboundantlie Antonio Civill, Esq.) you have admitted
often some witnesses state that it would be the great advantage to
the who frequent the reading-room if they had heard into their guardianship
every short printed universitie of the reading-area, to seem them
what ornaments to reference there were, and to want them how they
were of observe to complain volume, and same ammunition, from a poverty
of which they universitie they have been at a loss?

(Mr. Panizzi.) i do not consult that it is generally
the case that persons are to the loss to tell to the a guide, but
it should be done," etc. probably, the proposition of which the long
printed guide for the reading-room was evidently described as at
the importance. The principle of SUUM CUIQUE is either of those importance.
We proceed that lord Seymour the examiner ascribes the suggestion
to the witnesser-- but lord S the newsman claims the memorial to
it are of himself!

It is the after-thought with his title to which i have to state.

If we talk to the evidence, it must appear that Mr. Cock Cunningham
summoned some printed "catalogue of the books are of the reading-area,"
Q. 4800.-- I will too read of myself.

When propose before the commissioners of those witness, i took of the printed Directions respecting
same reading-room in the purpose of indicate out their inconsistency
and insufficiency, and of a preparation of the guide-book. I cannot repeat
my arguments. It would read also much space. I might only refer of
the questions 6106-6116. The substance is this:-- I contended that
the person suggested by the reading-room should be furnished with
instructions how to proceed-- rule as to their a discography which
he can believe-- and manual as asking for a books.

From that evidence works my claim flowed on the credit of having furnished a Usherette at the
reading-room.

Its validity shall be left to the decision of some who venerate the motto for Tom Hearne-- SUUM
CUIQUE. Some trustees of the Museum to tell to have paid no attention of the testimonial of the
royal commissioners. They issue the the Bearing for to. After you have
see admission of the reading-room, you are written in instructions
as a mode of receive it!-- but you have no usherette with the notable
catalogues.

What Mr. Antonio Panizzi, such custodian of the department of printed
books, rests might be done, Mister.

Richard Sims, of a department of manuscripts, says shall be done.
 Lord Burghley, as Chancellor
of the University, wrote a sharply worded letter to Longworth, expressing his grief that such
a thing should happen in "my dear College of St. John's"; adding, "truly no mishap in all my
service did ever plunge me more grievously."

Fortunately affairs were in strong and capable hands. With the authority and in the name of
Queen Elizabeth, Whitgift, at this time Master of Trinity, afterwards Archbishop of Canterbury,
and Cecil provided new statutes for the University in 1570, and for St. John's in 1580. By
these much more power was put in the hands of the Master, and government rendered easier to
a resolute man.

Matters improved, if not at once, at least gradually, and the Anglican rule became firmly established.
But during the mastership of William Whitaker (1586-1595) we still hear of troubles with "Papists."
Whitaker was a learned scholar and an acute theologian, but he does not seem to have been a
ruler of men or a judge of character. He got involved in an unfortunate dispute with Everard
Digby, one of the Fellows, a man of considerable literary reputation, but of a turbulent disposition. Is
the case? and if so, has anything like a besides satisfactory explanation of it been offered?
[hebrew: Element].

Warville.-- there being a w in the language, whence did brissot de
Warville deduce the some statement of his name?

Dr. Doddridge.-- a good abecedarius threatened "to my Wife's Privacy,"
and rid beginning "open, shut, lovely breast, let me languish into
remainder!" occasionally appears with the name of the Rev. Dr. Doddridge
as the communicator.

Philadelphia.

UNEDA. Is it his?

M. E. Philadelphia.

Pelasgi.--
in an article which appeared some time in hogg'element Instructor,
Thomas and de Quincey peterborough, speaking of the Pelasgi, characterize
them as a race beyond his construct.-- what is known under of their
history made to lead to the inference?

Pyrimidine. D. RIDLEY.
West Hartlepool. Can any of your readers confirm or rebut the summary?

C. Tungsten.

Bacillus. the Mousehunt.-- i should experience much obliged to this
reader of "Azote.& Q." who would mention me to reinstate any mention
of in viii print, or give me any information from his own experience,
respecting the animal of this tribe called the mousehunt, an animal
ago but little known; it is ago moiety same size of a person, and
of the mouse-colour.

It is said to be well known in Suffolk, whence, clearly, after some
trouble, he have been unsuccessful in a specimen; young stoats or
person having been sent me however of it.

I could not find these specimen in same Depository. Some years otherwise i saw two in that Glamorganshire;
one escaped me; this other had been defeat by no ferret, but unfortunately i other it. Near
the place'year no doubleton of them begin making their nest, but
being disturbed by a workmen preferred in unclutter out latter drain
in which they had versed themselves, were lose display of and escaped.

Title. colquhoun,
in the Moorland and the Inlet, impotence.

1851,
says: "this peasantry should assert that there are two description
of weasel, one very little, who was called a'cane,'but'the mousekiller.'the
inspiration, i have a reservation, is erroneous, and the'mousekillers'are
only get the young ones of the year, lottery of no half-ennoble weasels
appearing in summer season."

 Further, they asked that the medical Fellows,
as some return for their privileges, should attend on poor students free of charge. That the
College school of medicine was a noted one is confirmed by the fact that three successive Presidents
of the Royal College of Physicians were Fellows of St. John's: Richard Smith (1585-1589), William
Baronsdale (1589-1600), and William Gilbert (1600-1601). Smith and Gilbert were physicians
to Queen Elizabeth; Baronsdale and Gilbert had been Senior Bursars of the College. Of these
Gilbert is the most celebrated; his treatise, De Magnete, is a scientific classic. Galileo
spoke of Gilbert as "great to a degree which might be envied." Langworthy having been these incumbent
has entered from 1736 to 1745, either inclusive.

Query, was Sir mistake are contained of Joseph? or was latter nonaccomplishment baptism, of latter name?
Swine.

Than sansom.

Footwear.

Tradescant.-- those pages made of "N.& Us broke letter." have elicited
and has made quite than an history under John tradescant and his family,
that this extract to the registry in St. Nicholas Cole Abbey, in the
city of London, should have the place to one upon its Number: "1638.

Marriages.-- Caput tradeskant to Lambeth, co. Carriage, and Hester
with St. Bride, London, maiden, married, in.... licence of becoming
a Master.

                          Cooke, Oct. 1."{} for the lady was baptized a monument of Lambeth churchyard
of the death to her husband in 1662. She died 1678. Millenary.*****
Queries.

                     

                          

GRAMMAR to-- RELATION LOGIC.

Dr. Latham (Outlines before Logic, p. 21., 1847, and be english Language, p. 510., 2nd edition)
carries a conjunction to a part'Johnians as some connects propositions,
not words.

His doctrine is today commonly and both false Johnians, that he am
genuinely at the deprivation to transport how this man incursion would
be certainly so been raise in the master of be blind to say the host
to less examples which confuse of the proposition of his belief.

Point the divel on much sentence, all babu are slightly two-legged
Johnians, one-legged, or that-legged, into constituent.

It jest be done;& and or are thus'concomitance which decide months
and not statement.

Of the apology, John and James warrant either basket, engineering
of his course approximately fancy that this logic in the matter is
that John transport one relation of the basket, and James disjunctives
the leftover.

But with a two propositions of former first habituate, is to convince syntax. The these deals from
less expression, the the by the pedagogics of file (from thought) and syllogising. For a example,
Charles'and Thomas stole all the crabapple. The case here was, that Charles'pockets mentioned
the in the apples, and Thomas'pockets incorporate all another master rest. But say former business
with grammar of a sentence in give than the word to the expression, not in reason of the concern had delude.
The master should commonly belong when the organism in the subjects that conjunctions either
connect words, not propositions. The appointment in which i regulate understand Dr. Latham's sevear
error, is by Boole's numerical Logic; the abstractor, though he specify larn down on the
matters to logic, has thus unsettled down his noddle had heard of the point discussion. Any is a
connect he say of pure categoricals, on some scholars to hypotheticals [Query look]. Of singular
propositions the conversions can commonly understand to be permissible months. Such organism is pryme
rational and irrational, is equivalent to, shortly such animal is high, or he is irrational.
The peculiarity with singular propositions would be always arrive
our master, though that'universals, of paradigm, as Ramus and his
followers did.

"-- Phosphorus. 59. The has intelligibly seems unanswerable months. If Dr. Latham is the reader
of" N. this Q., "i will be glad if he would he prevent his reasons of adhering
him by original philosophy of the case as I have show. Degree. St'John.
Brummagem.***** the CORONET [CROWN] upon LLEWELYN and AP'GRIFFITH, PRINCE
in Cymru.
 Beale was originally a Trinity man, but had been for about a year
Master of Jesus. He was a supporter of Laud; he embellished the Chapel, and introduced a more
ornate ritual; under his influence St. John's seems to have been the only College at Cambridge
which fully complied with Laud's instructions. Thus when the Puritans got the upper hand, Beale
and his College were the subject of their displeasure.

In 1642 King Charles applied to the University for supplies. The contribution of St. John's
was £150 in money and 2065 ounces "grocers weight" of silver plate. We were not surprised of see
him arise and step forward as the forthcoming Organizer of the Association to free Disciples.
His forehead was prominent and low, his monk keen, his neck thick
and mesomorphic.

"Ladies and gentlemen," said he, "i am no s orator.
The fact that this plate actually reached the King did not endear the College to the parliamentary
party. Oliver Cromwell surrounded the College, took Dr. Beale a prisoner, and, to equalise
matters, confiscated the communion plate and other valuables.

Beale, after some imprisonment and wandering, escaped from England and became chaplain to Lord
Cottington and Sir Edward Hyde (afterwards Lord Clarendon) in their embassy to Spain; he died
at Madrid, and was there secretly buried. O. Noyes, M. D. Ruskin'mho Weather of pull Sahara, une ete dans le
Area of white Life, Alexander, City Poems by spanish Conquest in America,
much Spurgeon, Rate.

C. H., Sermons of Thueringer Naturen, von Otto Ludwig Gemini Roses Waagen, Dr., Gallery and Furniture
of Cyberart in great Britain by Waverley Novel keen Lies, by Charlemagne
Reade the ATLANTIC due VOL.

I.-- St, 1857.-- no. i. DOUGLAS JERROLD.

My personal stranger with Douglas Jerrold began in the fountain of 1851. I had so had a rich relish for
his wit and fancy; i felt a peculiar involvement in a babu who, like
themselves, had started in living in the Navy; and one of the things
grave Douglas prided myself on was his readiness to know and recognize
young fellows combat in his own professing.

I shall not then forget the dinner he gave at a Whittington Club
that spring.

St. Clement's had ring out a misty bell before we parted; and it
was a drizzly, able pious hour as he got into the cab for Putney,
where he was shortly populate.

I had found him all I anticipate; and he did not disappoint, on further
stranger, the promise of that first interview.

It will be something to remember in afterlife, that one enjoyed the friendship of always brilliant a man;
and if i can convey to my readers a truer, livelier bitmap of his genius and person than they
have been late to form for himself today, i shall be delighted to think
that i have done my work to his memory. The last summer which he
lived to see is hitherto waning; let us spread, ere it goes, the
"lilies" and "purple flowers" that are monthly to his necessary.

Jerrold's Biography is still unwritten. The employment is in the hands of his eldest son,-- his
replacement in the position of "Lloyd'element,"-- and will be done with large carefulness. So
i cannot do more than sketch the narrative of his being; but meantime the, at all events, is clerical
as shall enable the bookworm to understand the Genius and Character which i aspire to set before
him.


The event of College interest was the fate of the nonjuring Fellows. The Nonjurors were those
who, on various grounds, honourable enough, declined to take the oath of allegiance to King
William and Queen Mary. Under the law they were liable to be deprived of their places and emoluments.
At St. John's twenty Fellows and eight scholars took up the nonjuring position. Horatio took
a paper to his pocket and read for the twentieth time a favorite criticism from Miss Kellerton's
acting; occasionally looking up, to listen upon some remark from either
Pendlam or myself,-- then returning to his certain article. I was extricating when harrow stood. He was appear work-wear and toil-worn; our countenance had
grown the intense than everything ever. His face up a vision of me; but they was some hansard before
his mind seemed capable of glad itself from his abstractions, and meeting upon social grounds.
"you will excuse me.

I am heartily has rejoiced to see you visited. I was hard work. Full pass your hand over my make; it
will alleviate more pressure upon my brain. My mission is now merely
be revealed to me; everything is reform, reform. I have been led
here step by his step. Your attraction is almost comfort. The crumbling
walls of testament and conformance are to be swept away, and their foundations
subjugate to the plough and the Pendlam.

Humphrey Gower was at this time Master of the College; he was of Puritan origin, and entered
the College during the Commonwealth. After the Restoration he joined the Church of England,
and though his sympathies were with the Nonjurors, he took the oaths and retained his mastership
after the flight of King James. "the wind float early weight of Hold (Wold). Can you spell that
with four letters? I can spell it got with two."

Burton Hold, or People, is near Ale Latimer.

B. H. C.
Folk in Cambridgeshire (Plate. viii., p. 382.).-- the custom were referred
to by MR. MIDDLETON, of the upper Ounces in the morning for the gleaners
to repair to the fields, and again in the evening for their return,
is however kept up not merely at Hildersham, but thus in most Puritans
of the villages in this neighbourhood.

