Twenty Thousand

Leagues Under

the Seas

JULES VERNE

An Underwater Tour of the World

Translated from the Original French

by F. P. Walter

With the Paintings of Milo Winter

CEDAR POST PUBLISHING * HOUSTON, TEXAS

Text Prepared by:  F. P. Walter, 1433 Cedar Post, No. 31, Houston, Texas 77055.  (713) 827-1345

A complete, unabridged translation of Vingt milles lieues sous les mers by Jules Verne, based
on the original French texts published in Paris by J. Hetzel et Cie.  over the period 1869-71.

The paintings of Illinois watercolorist Milo Winter (1888-1956) first appeared in a 1922 juvenile
edition published by Rand McNally & Company.

VERNE'S TITLE

The French title of this novel is Vingt mille lieues sous les mers. This is accurately translated
as Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the SEAS--rather than the SEA, as with many English editions.
Verne's novel features a tour of the major oceans, and the term Leagues in its title is used
as a measure not of depth but distance.  Ed.

Contents

Color Plates vii

Introduction ix

Units of Measure xii

FIRST PART

1.  A Runaway Reef 1

2.  The Pros and Cons 6

3.  As Master Wishes 10

4.  Ned Land 14

5.  At Random! 19

6.  At Full Steam 24

7.  A Whale of Unknown Species 30

8.  "Mobilis in Mobili" 35

9.  The Tantrums of Ned Land 41

10.  The Man of the Waters 46

11.  The Nautilus 53

12.  Everything through Electricity 58

13.  Some Figures 63

14.  The Black Current 68

15.  An Invitation in Writing 76

16.  Strolling the Plains 82

17.  An Underwater Forest 86

18.  Four Thousand Leagues Under the Pacific 91

19.  Vanikoro 96

20.  The Torres Strait 103

21.  Some Days Ashore 109

22.  The Lightning Bolts of Captain Nemo 117

23.  "Aegri Somnia" 126

24.  The Coral Realm 132

SECOND PART

1.  The Indian Ocean 138

2.  A New Proposition from Captain Nemo 145

3.  A Pearl Worth Ten Million 152

4.  The Red Sea 160

5.  Arabian Tunnel 170

6.  The Greek Islands 176

7.  The Mediterranean in Forty-Eight Hours 184

8.  The Bay of Vigo 191

9.  A Lost Continent 199

10.  The Underwater Coalfields 206

11.  The Sargasso Sea 214

12.  Sperm Whales and Baleen Whales 220

13.  The Ice Bank 228

14.  The South Pole 236

15.  Accident or Incident? 246

16.  Shortage of Air 252

17.  From Cape Horn to the Amazon 259

18.  The Devilfish 266

19.  The Gulf Stream 274

20.  In Latitude 47? 24' and Longitude 17? 28' 282

21.  A Mass Execution 287

22.  The Last Words of Captain Nemo 294

23.  Conclusion 299

Color Plates

Facing Page

The Bay of Vigo.  iii

Ned Land stayed at his post.  28

"I've collected every one of them."  56

We walked with steady steps.  84

The dugout canoes drew nearer.  122

A dreadful battle was joined.  158

Picturesque ruins took shape.  202

"Farewell, O sun!" he called.  244

The poor fellow was done for.  272

An engaving by Guillaumot.

Introduction

"The deepest parts of the ocean are totally unknown to us," admits Professor Aronnax early
in this novel.  "What goes on in those distant depths?  What creatures inhabit, or could inhabit,
those regions twelve or fifteen miles beneath the surface of the water? It's almost beyond
conjecture."

Jules Verne (1828-1905) published the French equivalents of these words in 1869, and little
has changed since.  126 years later, a Time cover story on deep-sea exploration made much the
same admission: "We know more about Mars than we know about the oceans." This reality begins
to explain the dark power and otherworldly fascination of Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Seas.

Born in the French river town of Nantes, Verne had a lifelong passion for the sea.  First as
a Paris stockbroker, later as a celebrated author and yachtsman, he went on frequent voyages--
to Britain, America, the Mediterranean.  But the specific stimulus for this novel was an 1865
fan letter from a fellow writer, Madame George Sand.  She praised Verne's two early novels
Five Weeks in a Balloon (1863) and Journey to the Center of the Earth (1864), then added: 
"Soon I hope you'll take us into the ocean depths, your characters traveling in diving equipment
perfected by your science and your imagination."  Thus inspired, Verne created one of literature's
great rebels, a freedom fighter who plunged beneath the waves to wage a unique form of guerilla
warfare.

Initially, Verne's narrative was influenced by the 1863 uprising of Poland against Tsarist
Russia.  The Poles were quashed with a violence that appalled not only Verne but all Europe.
As originally conceived, Verne's Captain Nemo was a Polish nobleman whose entire family had
been slaughtered by Russian troops.  Nemo builds a fabulous futuristic submarine, the Nautilus,
then conducts an underwater campaign of vengeance against his imperialist oppressor.

But in the 1860s France had to treat the Tsar as an ally, and Verne's publisher Pierre Hetzel
pronounced the book unprintable. Verne reworked its political content, devising new nationalities
for Nemo and his great enemy--information revealed only in a later novel, The Mysterious Island
(1875); in the present work Nemo's background remains a dark secret.  In all, the novel had
a difficult gestation. Verne and Hetzel were in constant conflict and the book went through
multiple drafts, struggles reflected in its several working titles over the period 1865-69:
early on, it was variously called Voyage Under the Waters, Twenty-five Thousand Leagues Under
the Waters, Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Waters, and A Thousand Leagues Under the Oceans.

Verne is often dubbed, in Isaac Asimov's phrase, "the world's first science-fiction writer."
And it's true, many of his sixty-odd books do anticipate future events and technologies: From
the Earth to the Moon (1865) and Hector Servadac (1877) deal in space travel, while Journey
to the Center

of the Earth features travel to the earth's core.  But with Verne the operative word is "travel,"
and some of his best-known titles don't really qualify as sci-fi: Around the World in Eighty
Days (1872) and Michael Strogoff (1876) are closer to "travelogs"-- adventure yarns in far-away
places.

These observations partly apply here.  The subtitle of the present book is An Underwater Tour
of the World, so in good travelog style, the Nautilus's exploits supply an episodic story line.
Shark attacks, giant squid, cannibals, hurricanes, whale hunts, and other rip-roaring adventures
erupt almost at random.  Yet this loose structure gives the novel an air of documentary realism.
What's more, Verne adds backbone to the action by developing three recurring motifs: the deepening
mystery of Nemo's past life and future intentions, the mounting tension between Nemo and hot-tempered
harpooner Ned Land, and Ned's ongoing schemes to escape from the Nautilus.  These unifying
threads tighten the narrative and accelerate its momentum.

Other subtleties occur inside each episode, the textures sparkling with wit, information, and
insight.  Verne regards the sea from many angles:  in the domain of marine biology, he gives
us thumbnail sketches of fish, seashells, coral, sometimes in great catalogs that swirl past
like musical cascades; in the realm of geology, he studies volcanoes literally inside and out;
in the world of commerce, he celebrates the high-energy entrepreneurs who lay the Atlantic
Cable or dig the Suez Canal.  And Verne's marine engineering proves especially authoritative.
His specifications for an open-sea submarine and a self-contained diving suit were decades
before their time, yet modern technology bears them out triumphantly.

True, today's scientists know a few things he didn't: the South Pole isn't at the water's edge
but far inland; sharks don't flip over before attacking; giant squid sport ten tentacles not
eight; sperm whales don't prey on their whalebone cousins.  This notwithstanding, Verne furnishes
the most evocative portrayal of the ocean depths before the arrival of Jacques Cousteau and
technicolor film.

Lastly the book has stature as a novel of character.  Even the supporting cast is shrewdly
drawn:  Professor Aronnax, the career scientist caught in an ethical conflict; Conseil, the
compulsive classifier who supplies humorous tag lines for Verne's fast facts; the harpooner
Ned Land, a creature of constant appetites, man as heroic animal.

But much of the novel's brooding power comes from Captain Nemo. Inventor, musician, Renaissance
genius, he's a trail-blazing creation, the prototype not only for countless renegade scientists
in popular fiction, but even for such varied figures as Sherlock Holmes or Wolf Larsen.  However,
Verne gives his hero's brilliance and benevolence a dark underside--the man's obsessive hate
for his old enemy.  This compulsion leads Nemo into ugly contradictions: he's a fighter for
freedom, yet all who board his ship are imprisoned there for good; he works to save lives,
both human and animal, yet he himself creates a holocaust; he detests imperialism, yet he lays
personal claim to the South Pole.  And in this last action he falls into the classic sin of
Pride.  He's swiftly punished. The Nautilus nearly perishes in the Antarctic and Nemo sinks
into a growing depression.

Like Shakespeare's King Lear he courts death and madness in a great storm, then commits mass
murder, collapses in catatonic paralysis, and suicidally runs his ship into the ocean's most
dangerous whirlpool. Hate swallows him whole.

For many, then, this book has been a source of fascination, surely one of the most influential
novels ever written, an inspiration for such scientists and discoverers as engineer Simon Lake,
oceanographer William Beebe, polar traveler Sir Ernest Shackleton. Likewise Dr. Robert D. Ballard,
finder of the sunken Titanic, confesses that this was his favorite book as a teenager, and
Cousteau himself, most renowned of marine explorers, called it his shipboard bible.

The present translation is a faithful yet communicative rendering of the original French texts
published in Paris by J. Hetzel et Cie.-- the hardcover first edition issued in the autumn
of 1871, collated with the softcover editions of the First and Second Parts issued separately
in the autumn of 1869 and the summer of 1870. Although prior English versions have often been
heavily abridged, this new translation is complete to the smallest substantive detail.

Because, as that Time cover story suggests, we still haven't caught up with Verne.  Even in
our era of satellite dishes and video games, the seas keep their secrets.  We've seen progress
in sonar, torpedoes, and other belligerent machinery, but sailors and scientists-- to say nothing
of tourists--have yet to voyage in a submarine with the luxury and efficiency of the Nautilus.

F. P. WALTER

University of Houston

Units of Measure

CABLE LENGTH In Verne's context, 600 feet

CENTIGRADE 0 degrees centigrade = freezing water

37 degrees centigrade = human body temperature

100 degrees centigrade = boiling water

FATHOM 6 feet

GRAM Roughly 1/28 of an ounce

- MILLIGRAM Roughly 1/28,000 of an ounce

- KILOGRAM (KILO) Roughly 2.2 pounds

HECTARE Roughly 2.5 acres

KNOT 1.15 miles per hour

LEAGUE In Verne's context, 2.16 miles

LITER Roughly 1 quart

METER Roughly 1 yard, 3 inches

- MILLIMETER Roughly 1/25 of an inch

- CENTIMETER Roughly 2/5 of an inch

- DECIMETER Roughly 4 inches

- KILOMETER Roughly 6/10 of a mile

- MYRIAMETER Roughly 6.2 miles

TON, METRIC Roughly 2,200 pounds viii

FIRST PART

CHAPTER 1

A Runaway Reef

THE YEAR 1866 was marked by a bizarre development, an unexplained and downright inexplicable
phenomenon that surely no one has forgotten. Without getting into those rumors that upset civilians
in the seaports and deranged the public mind even far inland, it must be said that professional
seamen were especially alarmed. Traders, shipowners, captains of vessels, skippers, and master
mariners from Europe and America, naval officers from every country, and at their heels the
various national governments on these two continents, were all extremely disturbed by the business.

In essence, over a period of time several ships had encountered "an enormous thing" at sea,
a long spindle-shaped object, sometimes giving off a phosphorescent glow, infinitely bigger
and faster than any whale.

The relevant data on this apparition, as recorded in various logbooks, agreed pretty closely
as to the structure of the object or creature in question, its unprecedented speed of movement,
its startling locomotive power, and the unique vitality with which it seemed to be gifted.
If it was a cetacean, it exceeded in bulk any whale previously classified by science.  No naturalist,
neither Cuvier nor Lacépède, neither Professor Dumeril nor Professor de Quatrefages, would
have accepted the existence of such a monster sight unseen-- specifically, unseen by their
own scientific eyes.

Striking an average of observations taken at different times-- rejecting those timid estimates
that gave the object a length of 200 feet, and ignoring those exaggerated views that saw it
as a mile wide and three long--you could still assert that this phenomenal creature greatly
exceeded the dimensions of anything then known to ichthyologists, if it existed at all.

Now then, it did exist, this was an undeniable fact; and since the human mind dotes on objects
of wonder, you can understand the worldwide excitement caused by this unearthly apparition.
As for relegating it to the realm of fiction, that charge had to be dropped.

Captain Baker at first thought he was in the presence of an unknown reef; he was even about
to fix its exact position when two waterspouts shot out of this inexplicable object and sprang
hissing into the air some 150 feet.  So, unless this reef was subject to the intermittent eruptions
of a geyser, the Governor Higginson had fair and honest dealings with some aquatic mammal,
until then unknown, that could spurt from its blowholes waterspouts mixed with air and steam.

Similar events were likewise observed in Pacific seas, on July 23 of the same year, by the
Christopher Columbus from the West India & Pacific Steam Navigation Co.  Consequently, this
extraordinary cetacean could transfer itself from one locality to another with startling swiftness,
since within an interval of just three days, the Governor Higginson and the Christopher Columbus
had observed it at two positions on the charts separated by a distance of more than 700 nautical
leagues.

Fifteen days later and 2,000 leagues farther, the Helvetia from the Compagnie Nationale and
the Shannon from the Royal Mail line, running on opposite tacks in that part of the Atlantic
lying between the United States and Europe, respectively signaled each other that the monster
had been sighted in latitude 42 degrees 15' north and longitude 60 degrees 35' west of the
meridian of Greenwich.  From their simultaneous observations, they were able to estimate the
mammal's minimum length at more than 350 English feet;* this was because both the Shannon and
the Helvetia were of smaller dimensions, although each measured 100 meters stem to stern. Now
then, the biggest whales, those rorqual whales that frequent the waterways of the Aleutian
Islands, have never exceeded a length of 56 meters--if they reach even that.

*Author's Note:  About 106 meters.  An English foot is only 30.4 centimeters.

One after another, reports arrived that would profoundly affect public opinion:  new observations
taken by the transatlantic liner Pereire, the Inman line's Etna running afoul of the monster,
an official report drawn up by officers on the French frigate Normandy, dead-earnest reckonings
obtained by the general staff of Commodore Fitz-James aboard the Lord Clyde.  In lighthearted
countries, people joked about this phenomenon, but such serious, practical countries as England,
America, and Germany were deeply concerned.

In every big city the monster was the latest rage; they sang about it in the coffee houses,
they ridiculed it in the newspapers, they dramatized it in the theaters.  The tabloids found
it a fine opportunity for hatching all sorts of hoaxes.  In those newspapers short of copy,
you saw the reappearance of every gigantic imaginary creature, from "Moby Dick," that dreadful
white whale from the High Arctic regions, to the stupendous kraken whose tentacles could entwine
a 500-ton craft and drag it into the ocean depths. They even reprinted reports from ancient
times:  the views of Aristotle and Pliny accepting the existence of such monsters, then the
Norwegian stories of Bishop Pontoppidan, the narratives of Paul Egede, and finally the reports
of Captain Harrington-- whose good faith is above suspicion--in which he claims he saw, while
aboard the Castilian in 1857, one of those enormous serpents that, until then, had frequented
only the seas of France's old extremist newspaper, The Constitutionalist.

An interminable debate then broke out between believers and skeptics in the scholarly societies
and scientific journals. The "monster question" inflamed all minds.  During this memorable
campaign, journalists making a profession of science battled with those making a profession
of wit, spilling waves of ink and some of them even two or three drops of blood, since they
went from sea serpents to the most offensive personal remarks.

For six months the war seesawed.  With inexhaustible zest, the popular press took potshots
at feature articles from the Geographic Institute of Brazil, the Royal Academy of Science in
Berlin, the British Association, the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C., at discussions
in The Indian Archipelago, in Cosmos published by Father Moigno, in Petermann's Mittheilungen,*
and at scientific chronicles in the great French and foreign newspapers. When the monster's
detractors cited a saying by the botanist Linnaeus that "nature doesn't make leaps," witty
writers in the popular periodicals parodied it, maintaining in essence that "nature doesn't
make lunatics," and ordering their contemporaries never to give the lie to nature by believing
in krakens, sea serpents, "Moby Dicks," and other all-out efforts from drunken seamen.  Finally,
in a much-feared satirical journal, an article by its most popular columnist finished off the
monster for good, spurning it in the style of Hippolytus repulsing the amorous advances of
his stepmother Phaedra, and giving the creature its quietus amid a universal burst of laughter.
Wit had defeated science.

*German: "Bulletin."  Ed.

During the first months of the year 1867, the question seemed to be buried, and it didn't seem
due for resurrection, when new facts were brought to the public's attention.  But now it was
no longer an issue of a scientific problem to be solved, but a quite real and serious danger
to be avoided.  The question took an entirely new turn. The monster again became an islet,
rock, or reef, but a runaway reef, unfixed and elusive.

On March 5, 1867, the Moravian from the Montreal Ocean Co., lying during the night in latitude
27 degrees 30' and longitude 72 degrees 15', ran its starboard quarter afoul of a rock marked
on no charts of these waterways.  Under the combined efforts of wind and 400-horsepower steam,
it was traveling at a speed of thirteen knots. Without the high quality of its hull, the Moravian
would surely have split open from this collision and gone down together with those 237 passengers
it was bringing back from Canada.

This accident happened around five o'clock in the morning, just as day was beginning to break.
The officers on watch rushed to the craft's stern. They examined the ocean with the most scrupulous
care. They saw nothing except a strong eddy breaking three cable lengths out, as if those sheets
of water had been violently churned. The site's exact bearings were taken, and the Moravian
continued on course apparently undamaged.  Had it run afoul of an underwater rock or the wreckage
of some enormous derelict ship?  They were unable to say. But when they examined its undersides
in the service yard, they discovered that part of its keel had been smashed.

This occurrence, extremely serious in itself, might perhaps have been forgotten like so many
others, if three weeks later it hadn't been reenacted under identical conditions.  Only, thanks
to the nationality of the ship victimized by this new ramming, and thanks to the reputation
of the company to which this ship belonged, the event caused an immense uproar.

No one is unaware of the name of that famous English shipowner, Cunard.  In 1840 this shrewd
industrialist founded a postal service between Liverpool and Halifax, featuring three wooden
ships with 400-horsepower paddle wheels and a burden of 1,162 metric tons. Eight years later,
the company's assets were increased by four 650-horsepower ships at 1,820 metric tons, and
in two more years, by two other vessels of still greater power and tonnage. In 1853 the Cunard
Co., whose mail-carrying charter had just been renewed, successively added to its assets the
Arabia, the Persia, the China, the Scotia, the Java, and the Russia, all ships of top speed
and, after the Great Eastern, the biggest ever to plow the seas. So in 1867 this company owned
twelve ships, eight with paddle wheels and four with propellers.

If I give these highly condensed details, it is so everyone can fully understand the importance
of this maritime transportation company, known the world over for its shrewd management.  No
transoceanic navigational undertaking has been conducted with more ability, no business dealings
have been crowned with greater success. In twenty-six years Cunard ships have made 2,000 Atlantic
crossings without so much as a voyage canceled, a delay recorded, a man, a craft, or even a
letter lost.  Accordingly, despite strong competition from France, passengers still choose
the Cunard line in preference to all others, as can be seen in a recent survey of official
documents. Given this, no one will be astonished at the uproar provoked by this accident involving
one of its finest steamers.

On April 13, 1867, with a smooth sea and a moderate breeze, the Scotia lay in longitude 15
degrees 12' and latitude 45 degrees 37'. It was traveling at a speed of 13.43 knots under the
thrust of its 1,000-horsepower engines.  Its paddle wheels were churning the sea with perfect
steadiness.  It was then drawing 6.7 meters of water and displacing 6,624 cubic meters.

At 4:17 in the afternoon, during a high tea for passengers gathered in the main lounge, a collision
occurred, scarcely noticeable on the whole, affecting the Scotia's hull in that quarter a little
astern of its port paddle wheel.

The Scotia hadn't run afoul of something, it had been fouled, and by a cutting or perforating
instrument rather than a blunt one.  In fact, there could be no immediate danger. Divided into
seven compartments by watertight bulkheads, the Scotia could brave any leak with impunity.

Captain Anderson immediately made his way into the hold. He discovered that the fifth compartment
had been invaded by the sea, and the speed of this invasion proved that the leak was considerable.
Fortunately this compartment didn't contain the boilers, because their furnaces would have
been abruptly extinguished.

Captain Anderson called an immediate halt, and one of his sailors dived down to assess the
damage.  Within moments they had located a hole two meters in width on the steamer's underside.
Such a leak could not be patched, and with its paddle wheels half swamped, the Scotia had no
choice but to continue its voyage. By then it lay 300 miles from Cape Clear, and after three
days of delay that filled Liverpool with acute anxiety, it entered the company docks.

The engineers then proceeded to inspect the Scotia, which had been put in dry dock.  They couldn't
believe their eyes. Two and a half meters below its waterline, there gaped a symmetrical gash
in the shape of an isosceles triangle. This breach in the sheet iron was so perfectly formed,
no punch could have done a cleaner job of it.  Consequently, it must have been produced by
a perforating tool of uncommon toughness-- plus, after being launched with prodigious power
and then piercing four centimeters of sheet iron, this tool had needed to withdraw itself by
a backward motion truly inexplicable.

This was the last straw, and it resulted in arousing public passions all over again.  Indeed,
from this moment on, any maritime casualty without an established cause was charged to the
monster's account. This outrageous animal had to shoulder responsibility for all derelict vessels,
whose numbers are unfortunately considerable, since out of those 3,000 ships whose losses are
recorded annually at the marine insurance bureau, the figure for steam or sailing ships supposedly
lost with all hands, in the absence of any news, amounts to at least 200!

Now then, justly or unjustly, it was the "monster" who stood accused of their disappearance;
and since, thanks to it, travel between the various continents had become more and more dangerous,
the public spoke up and demanded straight out that, at all cost, the seas be purged of this
fearsome cetacean.

CHAPTER 2

The Pros and Cons

DURING THE PERIOD in which these developments were occurring, I had returned from a scientific
undertaking organized to explore the Nebraska badlands in the United States.  In my capacity
as Assistant Professor at the Paris Museum of Natural History, I had been attached to this
expedition by the French government. After spending six months in Nebraska, I arrived in New
York laden with valuable collections near the end of March.  My departure for France was set
for early May.  In the meantime, then, I was busy classifying my mineralogical, botanical,
and zoological treasures when that incident took place with the Scotia.

I was perfectly abreast of this question, which was the big news of the day, and how could
I not have been?  I had read and reread every American and European newspaper without being
any farther along. This mystery puzzled me.  Finding it impossible to form any views, I drifted
from one extreme to the other.  Something was out there, that much was certain, and any doubting
Thomas was invited to place his finger on the Scotia's wound.

When I arrived in New York, the question was at the boiling point. The hypothesis of a drifting
islet or an elusive reef, put forward by people not quite in their right minds, was completely
eliminated. And indeed, unless this reef had an engine in its belly, how could it move about
with such prodigious speed?

Also discredited was the idea of a floating hull or some other enormous wreckage, and again
because of this speed of movement.

So only two possible solutions to the question were left, creating two very distinct groups
of supporters:  on one side, those favoring a monster of colossal strength; on the other, those
favoring an "underwater boat" of tremendous motor power.

Now then, although the latter hypothesis was completely admissible, it couldn't stand up to
inquiries conducted in both the New World and the Old.  That a private individual had such
a mechanism at his disposal was less than probable.  Where and when had he built it, and how
could he have built it in secret?

Only some government could own such an engine of destruction, and in these disaster-filled
times, when men tax their ingenuity to build increasingly powerful aggressive weapons, it was
possible that, unknown to the rest of the world, some nation could have been testing such a
fearsome machine.  The Chassepot rifle led to the torpedo, and the torpedo has led to this
underwater battering ram, which in turn will lead to the world putting its foot down. At least
I hope it will.

But this hypothesis of a war machine collapsed in the face of formal denials from the various
governments.  Since the public interest was at stake and transoceanic travel was suffering,
the sincerity of these governments could not be doubted.  Besides, how could the assembly of
this underwater boat have escaped public notice? Keeping a secret under such circumstances
would be difficult enough for an individual, and certainly impossible for a nation whose every
move is under constant surveillance by rival powers.

So, after inquiries conducted in England, France, Russia, Prussia, Spain, Italy, America, and
even Turkey, the hypothesis of an underwater Monitor was ultimately rejected.

And so the monster surfaced again, despite the endless witticisms heaped on it by the popular
press, and the human imagination soon got caught up in the most ridiculous ichthyological fantasies.

After I arrived in New York, several people did me the honor of consulting me on the phenomenon
in question.  In France I had published a two-volume work, in quarto, entitled The Mysteries
of the Great Ocean Depths.  Well received in scholarly circles, this book had established me
as a specialist in this pretty obscure field of natural history.  My views were in demand.
As long as I could deny the reality of the business, I confined myself to a flat "no comment."
But soon, pinned to the wall, I had to explain myself straight out. And in this vein, "the
honorable Pierre Aronnax, Professor at the Paris Museum," was summoned by The New York Herald
to formulate his views no matter what.

I complied.  Since I could no longer hold my tongue, I let it wag. I discussed the question
in its every aspect, both political and scientific, and this is an excerpt from the well-padded
article I published in the issue of April 30.

"Therefore," I wrote, "after examining these different hypotheses one by one, we are forced,
every other supposition having been refuted, to accept the existence of an extremely powerful
marine animal.

"The deepest parts of the ocean are totally unknown to us. No soundings have been able to reach
them.  What is the constitution of these animals? It's almost beyond conjecture.

"However, the solution to this problem submitted to me can take the form of a choice between
two alternatives.

"Either we know every variety of creature populating our planet, or we do not.

"If we do not know every one of them, if nature still keeps ichthyological secrets from us,
nothing is more admissible than to accept the existence of fish or cetaceans of new species
or even new genera, animals with a basically 'cast-iron' constitution that inhabit strata beyond
the reach of our soundings, and which some development or other, an urge or a whim if you prefer,
can bring to the upper level of the ocean for long intervals.

"If, on the other hand, we do know every living species, we must look for the animal in question
among those marine creatures already cataloged, and in this event I would be inclined to accept
the existence of a giant narwhale.

"The common narwhale, or sea unicorn, often reaches a length of sixty feet.  Increase its dimensions
fivefold or even tenfold, then give this cetacean a strength in proportion to its size while
enlarging its offensive weapons, and you have the animal we're looking for. It would have the
proportions determined by the officers of the Shannon, the instrument needed to perforate the
Scotia, and the power to pierce a steamer's hull.

"In essence, the narwhale is armed with a sort of ivory sword, or lance, as certain naturalists
have expressed it. It's a king-sized tooth as hard as steel.  Some of these teeth have been
found buried in the bodies of baleen whales, which the narwhale attacks with invariable success.
Others have been wrenched, not without difficulty, from the undersides of vessels that narwhales
have pierced clean through, as a gimlet pierces a wine barrel. The museum at the Faculty of
Medicine in Paris owns one of these tusks with a length of 2.25 meters and a width at its base
of forty-eight centimeters!

"All right then!  Imagine this weapon to be ten times stronger and the animal ten times more
powerful, launch it at a speed of twenty miles per hour, multiply its mass times its velocity,
and you get just the collision we need to cause the specified catastrophe.

"So, until information becomes more abundant, I plump for a sea unicorn of colossal dimensions,
no longer armed with a mere lance but with an actual spur, like ironclad frigates or those
warships called 'rams,' whose mass and motor power it would possess simultaneously.

"This inexplicable phenomenon is thus explained away--unless it's something else entirely,
which, despite everything that has been sighted, studied, explored and experienced, is still
possible!"

These last words were cowardly of me; but as far as I could, I wanted to protect my professorial
dignity and not lay myself open to laughter from the Americans, who when they do laugh, laugh
raucously. I had left myself a loophole.  Yet deep down, I had accepted the existence of "the
monster."

My article was hotly debated, causing a fine old uproar. It rallied a number of supporters.
Moreover, the solution it proposed allowed for free play of the imagination. The human mind
enjoys impressive visions of unearthly creatures. Now then, the sea is precisely their best
medium, the only setting suitable for the breeding and growing of such giants--next to which
such land animals as elephants or rhinoceroses are mere dwarves. The liquid masses support
the largest known species of mammals and perhaps conceal mollusks of incomparable size or crustaceans
too frightful to contemplate, such as 100-meter lobsters or crabs weighing 200 metric tons!
Why not?  Formerly, in prehistoric days, land animals (quadrupeds, apes, reptiles, birds) were
built on a gigantic scale. Our Creator cast them using a colossal mold that time has gradually
made smaller.  With its untold depths, couldn't the sea keep alive such huge specimens of life
from another age, this sea that never changes while the land masses undergo almost continuous
alteration? Couldn't the heart of the ocean hide the last-remaining varieties of these titanic
species, for whom years are centuries and centuries millennia?

But I mustn't let these fantasies run away with me!  Enough of these fairy tales that time
has changed for me into harsh realities. I repeat:  opinion had crystallized as to the nature
of this phenomenon, and the public accepted without argument the existence of a prodigious
creature that had nothing in common with the fabled sea serpent.

