Seated on the threshold of this ancient pile, where the "proud porter" had in former days "rear'd
himself,"[I-2] a stranger had a complete and commanding view of the decayed village, the houses
of which, to a fanciful imagination, might seem as if they had been suddenly arrested in hurrying
down the precipitous hill, and fixed as if by magic in the whimsical arrangement which they
now presented. It was like a sudden pause in one of Amphion's country-dances, when the huts
which were to form the future Thebes were jigging it to his lute. But, with such an observer,
the melancholy excited by the desolate appearance of the village soon overcame all the lighter
frolics of the imagination. Originally constructed on the humble plan used in the building
of Scotch cottages about a century ago, the greater part of them had been long deserted; and
their fallen roofs, blackened gables, and ruinous walls, showed Desolation's triumph over Poverty.
On some huts the rafters, varnished with soot, were still standing, in whole or in part, like
skeletons, and a few, wholly or partially covered with thatch, seemed still inhabited, though
scarce habitable; for the smoke of the peat-fires, which prepared the humble meal of the indwellers,
stole upwards, not only from the chimneys, its regular vent, but from various other crevices
in the roofs. Nature, in the meanwhile, always changing, but renewing as she changes, was supplying,
by the power of vegetation, the fallen and decaying marks of human labour. Small pollards,
which had been formerly planted around the little gardens, had now waxed into huge and high
forest trees; the fruit-trees had extended their branches over the verges of the little yards,
and the hedges had shot up into huge and irregular bushes; while quantities of dock, and nettles,
and hemlock, hiding the ruined walls, were busily converting the whole scene of desolation
into a picturesque forest-bank.

Two houses in St. Ronan's were still in something like decent repair; places essential--the
one to the spiritual weal of the inhabitants, the other to the accommodation of travellers.
These were the clergyman's manse, and the village inn. Of the former we need only say, that
it formed no exception to the general rule by which the landed proprietors of Scotland seem
to proceed in lodging their clergy, not only in the cheapest, but in the ugliest and most inconvenient
house which the genius of masonry can contrive. It had the usual number of chimneys--two, namely--rising
like asses' ears at either end, which answered the purpose for which they were designed as
ill as usual. It had all the ordinary leaks and inlets to the fury of the elements, which usually
form the subject of the complaints of a Scottish incumbent to his brethren of the presbytery;
and, to complete the picture, the clergyman being a bachelor, the pigs had unmolested admission
to the garden and court-yard, broken windows were repaired with brown paper, and the disordered
and squalid appearance of a low farm-house, occupied by a bankrupt tenant, dishonoured the
dwelling of one, who, besides his clerical character, was a scholar and a gentleman, though
a little of a humourist.

Beside the manse stood the kirk of St. Ronan's, a little old mansion with a clay floor, and
an assemblage of wretched pews, originally of carved oak, but heedfully clouted with white
fir-deal. But the external form of the church was elegant in the outline, having been built
in Catholic times, when we cannot deny to the forms of ecclesiastical architecture that grace,
which, as good Protestants, we refuse to their doctrine. The fabric hardly raised its grey
and vaulted roof among the crumbling hills of mortality by which it was surrounded, and was
indeed so small in size, and so much lowered in height by the graves on the outside, which
ascended half way up the low Saxon windows, that it might itself have appeared only a funeral
vault, or mausoleum of larger size. Its little square tower, with the ancient belfry, alone
distinguished it from such a monument. But when the grey-headed beadle turned the keys with
his shaking hand, the antiquary was admitted into an ancient building, which, from the style
of its architecture, and some monuments of the Mowbrays of St. Ronan's, which the old man was
accustomed to point out, was generally conjectured to be as early as the thirteenth century.

These Mowbrays of St. Ronan's seem to have been at one time a very powerful family. They were
allied to, and friends of the house of Douglas, at the time when the overgrown power of that
heroic race made the Stewarts tremble on the Scottish throne. It followed that, when, as our
old naïf historian expresses it, "no one dared to strive with a Douglas, nor yet with a Douglas's
man, for if he did, he was sure to come by the waur," the family of St. Ronan's shared their
prosperity, and became lords of almost the whole of the rich valley of which their mansion
commanded the prospect. But upon the turning of the tide, in the reign of James II., they became
despoiled of the greater part of those fair acquisitions, and succeeding events reduced their
importance still farther. Nevertheless, they were, in the middle of the seventeenth century,
still a family of considerable note; and Sir Reginald Mowbray, after the unhappy battle of
Dunbar, distinguished himself by the obstinate defence of the Castle against the arms of Cromwell,
who, incensed at the opposition which he had unexpectedly encountered in an obscure corner,
caused the fortress to be dismantled and blown up with gunpowder.

After this catastrophe the old Castle was abandoned to ruin; but Sir Reginald, when, like Allan
Ramsay's Sir William Worthy, he returned after the Revolution, built himself a house in the
fashion of that later age, which he prudently suited in size to the diminished fortunes of
his family. It was situated about the middle of the village, whose vicinity was not in those
days judged any inconvenience, upon a spot of ground more level than was presented by the rest
of the acclivity, where, as we said before, the houses were notched as it were into the side
of the steep bank, with little more level ground about them than the spot occupied by their
site. But the Laird's house had a court in front and a small garden behind, connected with
another garden, which, occupying three terraces, descended, in emulation of the orchards of
the old Castle, almost to the banks of the stream.

The family continued to inhabit this new messuage until about fifty years before the commencement
of our history, when it was much damaged by a casual fire; and the Laird of the day, having
just succeeded to a more pleasant and commodious dwelling at the distance of about three miles
from the village, determined to abandon the habitation of his ancestors. As he cut down at
the same time an ancient rookery, (perhaps to defray the expenses of the migration,) it became
a common remark among the country folk, that the decay of St. Ronan's began when Laird Lawrence
and the crows flew off.

The deserted mansion, however, was not consigned to owls and birds of the desert; on the contrary,
for many years it witnessed more fun and festivity than when it had been the sombre abode of
a grave Scottish Baron of "auld lang syne." In short, it was converted into an inn, and marked
by a huge sign, representing on the one side St. Ronan catching hold of the devil's game leg
with his Episcopal crook, as the story may be read in his veracious legend, and on the other
the Mowbray arms. It was by far the best frequented public-house in that vicinity; and a thousand
stories were told of the revels which had been held within its walls, and the gambols achieved
under the influence of its liquors. All this, however, had long since passed away, according
to the lines in my frontispiece,

    "A merry place, 'twas said, in days of yore;
    But something ail'd it now,--the place was cursed."

The worthy couple (servants and favourites of the Mowbray family) who first kept the inn, had
died reasonably wealthy, after long carrying on a flourishing trade, leaving behind them an
only daughter. They had acquired by degrees not only the property of the inn itself, of which
they were originally tenants, but of some remarkably good meadow-land by the side of the brook,
which, when touched by a little pecuniary necessity, the Lairds of St. Ronan's had disposed
of piecemeal, as the readiest way to portion off a daughter, procure a commission for the younger
son, and the like emergencies. So that Meg Dods, when she succeeded to her parents, was a considerable
heiress, and, as such, had the honour of refusing three topping-farmers, two bonnet-lairds,
and a horse-couper, who successively made proposals to her.

Many bets were laid on the horse-couper's success, but the knowing ones were taken in. Determined
to ride the fore-horse herself, Meg would admit no helpmate who might soon assert the rights
of a master; and so, in single blessedness, and with the despotism of Queen Bess herself, she
ruled all matters with a high hand, not only over her men-servants and maid-servants, but over
the stranger within her gates, who, if he ventured to oppose Meg's sovereign will and pleasure,
or desire to have either fare or accommodation different from that which she chose to provide
for him, was instantly ejected with that answer which Erasmus tells us silenced all complaints
in the German inns of his time, Quære aliud hospitium;[I-3] or, as Meg expressed it, "Troop
aff wi' ye to another public." As this amounted to a banishment in extent equal to sixteen
miles from Meg's residence, the unhappy party on whom it was passed, had no other refuge save
by deprecating the wrath of his landlady, and resigning himself to her will. It is but justice
to Meg Dods to state, that though hers was a severe and almost despotic government, it could
not be termed a tyranny, since it was exercised, upon the whole, for the good of the subject.

The vaults of the old Laird's cellar had not, even in his own day, been replenished with more
excellent wines; the only difficulty was to prevail on Meg to look for the precise liquor you
chose;--to which it may be added, that she often became restiff when she thought a company
had had "as much as did them good," and refused to furnish any more supplies. Then her kitchen
was her pride and glory; she looked to the dressing of every dish herself, and there were some
with which she suffered no one to interfere. Such were the cock-a-leeky, and the savoury minced
collops, which rivalled in their way even the veal cutlets of our old friend Mrs. Hall, at
Ferrybridge. 

Volume I consists of 336 pages and includes:

Warning of the translators and annotators .-- News about the life
and works of .-- Preface Ahrens the author .-- Introduction.

Principles of Philosophy of Law: Groundwork of the idea of ​​law .-- Exhibition its capital
.-- Critical elements of the main systems of law .-- Forms, sources
immediate and mediate .-- .-- The State Division of private law and
organic groups, as the purpose of life.

History of Law: Philosophical principles of this story .-- .-- Periods
capital law pre-historic East .-- Right, look at general .-- The Hindu
.-- The Village Zendo .-- Egypt .-- China .-- The Hebrews .-- Appendices
.-- Muslim law.

Volume II consists of 464 pages and contains:

History of Law in Greece
and Rome: Difference between Greek law .-- .-- Rights Law Judgement
.-- Roman historical and philosophical.

Legal history of Christian: Right Germanic various times up today
.-- Law of non-German Germanic peoples Germanic law .-- peoples Latinos
.-- Law of Hungarian law Slavs .-- .-- Judgement philosophical history.

Volume

III contains 384 pages and contains:

Private law system: The concept, purpose and method of the same division.

General part: Subject of Law .-- .-- Foreign Object of the legal,
origination and termination Rights to acquire modes .-- .-- Information
law legal relationships space and time .-- Protection of Rights .--
The possession.

Special section: The right of individuals .-- .-- Right of property
law of obligations, contracts and classes of society .-- .-- law marriage
law, family law and inheritance law .-- professions.

Public law, law of the State and society .-- international law.

Legal methodology.

The cost of the work, 18 pesetas in Madrid and 21 provinces.

Spanish pasta bound, 4.50 pesetas.

CALDERON DE LA BARCA

Select theater, preceded by a critical study
of D. Marcelino Menéndez Pelayo, 4 volumes, 8. º, 48 and 56 reais.

Contains:

VOLUME = I =

Critical study, by D. Marcelino Menéndez Pelayo.

RELIGIOUS AND PHILOSOPHICAL DRAMAS

Life is a dream .-- Devotion of
the Cross .-- The prodigious magical .-- The Constant Prince.

= VOLUME II =

Tragic drama

The physician of his honor .-- A grievance secret, secret revenge
.-- The Mayor of Zalamea .-- The largest Amar .-- monster jealousy
after death.

= VOLUME III =

COMEDY swashbuckling

House with two doors is to
keep bad .-- .-- La dama duende No jokes like love .-- Morning April
and May.

= VOLUME IV =

COMEDY .-- VARIOUS WORKS

The worst thing
is not always true .-- Beware of still water.

OPERETTA

The laurel
of Apollo .-- The Purple Rose.

Mystery plays

Baltazar dinner .--
Life is a Dream .-- A God by reason of state.

Volumes are sold loose
at 12 and 14 reais.

MADRID, 1886 .-- Imprenta de Manuel G. Hernandez,
Libertad, 16 duplicate She
was accustomed to say of herself in her more gentle moods, that her bark was worse than her
bite; but what teeth could have matched a tongue, which, when in full career, is vouched to
have been heard from the Kirk to the Castle of Saint Ronan's?

These notable gifts, however, had no charms for the travellers of these light and giddy-paced
times, and Meg's inn became less and less frequented. What carried the evil to the uttermost
was, that a fanciful lady of rank in the neighbourhood chanced to recover of some imaginary
complaint by the use of a mineral well about a mile and a half from the village; a fashionable
doctor was found to write an analysis of the healing waters, with a list of sundry cures; a
speculative builder took land in feu, and erected lodging-houses, shops, and even streets.
At length a tontine subscription was obtained to erect an inn, which, for the more grace, was
called a hotel; and so the desertion of Meg Dods became general.[I-6]

She had still, however, her friends and well-wishers, many of whom thought, that as she was
a lone woman, and known to be well to pass in the world, she would act wisely to retire from
public life, and take down a sign which had no longer fascination for guests. But Meg's spirit
scorned submission, direct or implied. "Her father's door," she said, "should be open to the
road, till her father's bairn should be streekit and carried out at it with her feet foremost.
It was not for the profit--there was little profit at it;--profit?--there was a dead loss;
but she wad not be dung by any of them. They maun hae a hottle,[I-7] maun they?--and an honest
public canna serve them! They may hottle that likes; but they shall see that Lucky Dods can
hottle on as lang as the best of them--ay, though they had made a Tamteen of it, and linkit
aw their breaths of lives, whilk are in their nostrils, on end of ilk other like a string of
wild-geese, and the langest liver bruick a', (whilk was sinful presumption,) she would match
ilk ane of them as lang as her ain wind held out." Fortunate it was for Meg, since she had
formed this doughty resolution, that although her inn had decayed in custom, her land had risen
in value in a degree which more than compensated the balance on the wrong side of her books,
and, joined to her usual providence and economy, enabled her to act up to her lofty purpose.

She prosecuted her trade too with every attention to its diminished income; shut up the windows
of one half of her house, to baffle the tax-gatherer; retrenched her furniture; discharged
her pair of post-horses, and pensioned off the old humpbacked postilion who drove them, retaining
his services, however, as an assistant to a still more aged hostler. To console herself for
restrictions by which her pride was secretly wounded, she agreed with the celebrated Dick Tinto
to re-paint her father's sign, which had become rather undecipherable; and Dick accordingly
gilded the Bishop's crook, and augmented the horrors of the Devil's aspect, until it became
a terror to all the younger fry of the school-house, and a sort of visible illustration of
the terrors of the arch-enemy, with which the minister endeavoured to impress their infant minds.

Under this renewed symbol of her profession, Meg Dods, or Meg Dorts, as she was popularly termed,
on account of her refractory humours, was still patronised by some steady customers. Such were
the members of the Killnakelty Hunt, once famous on the turf and in the field, but now a set
of venerable grey-headed sportsmen, who had sunk from fox-hounds to basket-beagles and coursing,
and who made an easy canter on their quiet nags a gentle induction to a dinner at Meg's. "A
set of honest decent men they were," Meg said; "had their sang and their joke--and what for
no? Their bind was just a Scots pint over-head, and a tappit-hen to the bill, and no man ever
saw them the waur o't. It was thae cockle-brained callants of the present day that would be
mair owerta'en with a puir quart than douce folk were with a magnum."

Then there was a set of ancient brethren of the angle from Edinburgh, who visited Saint Ronan's
frequently in the spring and summer, a class of guests peculiarly acceptable to Meg, who permitted
them more latitude in her premises than she was known to allow to any other body. "They were,"
she said, "pawky auld carles, that kend whilk side their bread was buttered upon. Ye never
kend of ony o' them ganging to the spring, as they behoved to ca' the stinking well yonder.--Na,
na--they were up in the morning--had their parritch, wi' maybe a thimblefull of brandy, and
then awa up into the hills, eat their bit cauld meat on the heather, and came hame at e'en
with the creel full of caller trouts, and had them to their dinner, and their quiet cogue of
ale, and their drap punch, and were set singing their catches and glees, as they ca'd them,
till ten o'clock, and then to bed, wi' God bless ye--and what for no?"

Thirdly, we may commemorate some ranting blades, who also came from the metropolis to visit
Saint Ronan's, attracted by the humours of Meg, and still more by the excellence of her liquor,
and the cheapness of her reckonings. These were members of the Helter Skelter Club, of the
Wildfire Club, and other associations formed for the express purpose of getting rid of care
and sobriety. Such dashers occasioned many a racket in Meg's house, and many a bourasque in
Meg's temper. Various were the arts of flattery and violence by which they endeavoured to get
supplies of liquor, when Meg's conscience told her they had had too much already. Sometimes
they failed, as when the croupier of the Helter Skelter got himself scalded with the mulled
wine, in an unsuccessful attempt to coax this formidable virago by a salute; and the excellent
president of the Wildfire received a broken head from the keys of the cellar, as he endeavoured
to possess himself of these emblems of authority. But little did these dauntless officials
care for the exuberant frolics of Meg's temper, which were to them only "pretty Fanny's way"--the
dulces Amaryllidis iræ. And Meg, on her part, though she often called them "drunken ne'er-do-weels,
and thoroughbred High-street blackguards," allowed no other person to speak ill of them in
her hearing. "They were daft callants," she said, "and that was all--when the drink was in,
the wit was out--ye could not put an auld head upon young shouthers--a young cowt will canter,
be it up-hill or down--and what for no?" was her uniform conclusion.

Nor must we omit, among Meg's steady customers, "faithful amongst the unfaithful found," the
copper-nosed sheriff-clerk of the county, who, when summoned by official duty to that district
of the shire, warmed by recollections of her double-brewed ale, and her generous Antigua, always
advertised that his "Prieves," or "Comptis," or whatever other business was in hand, were to
proceed on such a day and hour, "within the house of Margaret Dods, vintner in Saint Ronan's."

We have only farther to notice Meg's mode of conducting herself towards chance travellers,
who, knowing nothing of nearer or more fashionable accommodations, or perhaps consulting rather
the state of their purse than of their taste, stumbled upon her house of entertainment. Her
reception of these was as precarious as the hospitality of a savage nation to sailors shipwrecked
on their coast. If the guests seemed to have made her mansion their free choice--or if she
liked their appearance (and her taste was very capricious)--above all, if they seemed pleased
with what they got, and little disposed to criticise or give trouble, it was all very well.
But if they had come to Saint Ronan's because the house at the Well was full--or if she disliked
what the sailor calls the cut of their jib--or if, above all, they were critical about their
accommodations, none so likely as Meg to give them what in her country is called a sloan. In
fact, she reckoned such persons a part of that ungenerous and ungrateful public, for whose
sake she was keeping her house open at a dead loss, and who had left her, as it were, a victim
to her patriotic zeal.

Hence arose the different reports concerning the little inn of Saint Ronan's, which some favoured
travellers praised as the neatest and most comfortable old-fashioned house in Scotland, where
you had good attendance, and good cheer, at moderate rates; while others, less fortunate, could
only talk of the darkness of the rooms, the homeliness of the old furniture, and the detestable
bad humour of Meg Dods, the landlady.

Reader, if you come from the more sunny side of the Tweed--or even if, being a Scot, you have
had the advantage to be born within the last twenty-five years, you may be induced to think
this portrait of Queen Elizabeth, in Dame Quickly's piqued hat and green apron, somewhat overcharged
in the features. But I appeal to my own contemporaries, who have known wheel-road, bridle-way,
and footpath, for thirty years, whether they do not, every one of them, remember Meg Dods--or
somebody very like her. Indeed, so much is this the case, that, about the period I mention,
I should have been afraid to have rambled from the Scottish metropolis, in almost any direction,
lest I had lighted upon some one of the sisterhood of Dame Quickly, who might suspect me of
having showed her up to the public in the character of Meg Dods. At present, though it is possible
that some one or two of this peculiar class of wild-cats may still exist, their talons must
be much impaired by age; and I think they can do little more than sit, like the Giant Pope,
in the Pilgrim's Progress, at the door of their unfrequented caverns, and grin at the pilgrims
over whom they used formerly to execute their despotism. The song masterfully prepares the scene comes
next. Margarita is already all of Faust, Faust wants to be of God, and expresses Despite seeing
their little religious. Faust quiets more fondly than reasons, and finally arranges an appointment
with her.

Here are details on which we dare not enforce decisions. No doubt it is admirable force Goethe's
creative, so real that we are introduced to Margarita and for that surrounds art of candor,
that, notwithstanding all its faults, continues to seem pure and innocent, as if he had evil
in it a god who steals responsibility and free will. Love has been the work of love and not the devil,
but in the direction it takes so beautiful passion, and the devil is involved. No wonder God has
made the same permission to try to Fausto, no wonder he is bound with him. Crimes are needed;
matter is born and is increasing the tragic terror; but despite this, and despite a lot of
evil has to be in the story that such a role does the devil, no one could have excused the detail
of narcotics, Margarita given by her mother during the night to unveil and not surprised at
arms of his beloved? Although Margaret has the certainty that evil will not narcotics his mother,
is not horrible yet to be given, and then have your hand in that violent dream in that mockery
of death, as she has with the man she loves? In all manner of sins are the most and least. No
missing women who tease their mothers and their husbands, but we are certain that for every
cent, just will not discard a the use of narcotics. Even the most conscienceless libertines figure
we have to hurry by all means, and though will not find any, they will stop before proposing
scared her friends this way of numbing the mother or husband to have them then peacefully. Moreover,
Margarita, who was alone in the house of Martha, unscrupulous woman and all was paid, what need was to
infuse his mother sleep?

We say that infanticide is worse, that infanticide is the most heinous of crimes; but infanticide
was necessary to motivate the torture of Margarita, whose goodness is safe thanks to delirium.
Mad, throws his son into a pond, where they drowned, while her mother deliberately gives narcotics
throughout the clearing of his trial, and without the narcotic remove or put the argument or
development of the action. Is a refinement of mischief realism and sinful, and is entirely useless
to spare.

Dreadful crime is also the death of Valentin given at close range by Faust, but it was inevitable;
aesthetically justified. Also, here is forgive any defect in the
poet, if that he had, in favor of the tough character and military
honor, the brother of Margarita.

The companion of his travels seemed in the hostler's eye deserving of his care, being a strong
active horse, fit either for the road or field, but rather high in bone from a long journey,
though from the state of his skin it appeared the utmost care had been bestowed to keep him
in condition. While the groom obeyed the stranger's directions, the latter, with the saddle-bags
laid over his arm, entered the kitchen of the inn.

Here he found the landlady herself in none of her most blessed humours. The cook-maid was abroad
on some errand, and Meg, in a close review of the kitchen apparatus, was making the unpleasant
discovery, that trenchers had been broken or cracked, pots and saucepans not so accurately
scoured as her precise notions of cleanliness required, which, joined to other detections of
a more petty description, stirred her bile in no small degree; so that while she disarranged
and arranged the bink, she maundered, in an under tone, complaints and menaces against the
absent delinquent.

The entrance of a guest did not induce her to suspend this agreeable amusement--she just glanced
at him as he entered, then turned her back short on him, and continued her labour and her soliloquy
of lamentation. Truth is, she thought she recognised in the person of the stranger, one of
those useful envoys of the commercial community, called, by themselves and the waiters, Travellers,
par excellence--by others, Riders and Bagmen. Now against this class of customers Meg had peculiar
prejudices; because, there being no shops in the old village of Saint Ronan's, the said commercial
emissaries, for the convenience of their traffic, always took up their abode at the New Inn,
or Hotel, in the rising and rival village called Saint Ronan's Well, unless when some straggler,
by chance or dire necessity, was compelled to lodge himself at the Auld Town, as the place
of Meg's residence began to be generally termed. She had, therefore, no sooner formed the hasty
conclusion, that the individual in question belonged to this obnoxious class, than she resumed
her former occupation, and continued to soliloquize and apostrophize her absent handmaidens,
without even appearing sensible of his presence.

"The huzzy Beenie--the jaud Eppie--the deil's buckie of a callant!--Another plate gane--they'll
break me out of house and ha'!"

The traveller, who, with his saddle-bags rested on the back of a chair, had waited in silence
for some note of welcome, now saw that, ghost or no ghost, he must speak first, if he intended
to have any notice from his landlady.

"You are my old acquaintance, Mrs. Margaret Dods?" said the stranger.

"What for no?--and wha are ye that speers?" said Meg, in the same breath, and began to rub
a brass candlestick with more vehemence than before--the dry tone in which she spoke, indicating
plainly how little concern she took in the conversation.

"A traveller, good Mistress Dods, who comes to take up his lodgings here for a day or two."

"I am thinking ye will be mista'en," said Meg; "there's nae room for bags or jaugs here--ye've
mista'en your road, neighbour--ye maun e'en bundle yoursell a bit farther down hill."

"I see you have not got the letter I sent you, Mistress Dods?" said the guest.

"How should I, man?" answered the hostess; "they have ta'en awa the post-office from us--moved
it down till the Spa-well yonder, as they ca'd."

"Why, that is but a step off," observed the guest.

"Ye will get there the sooner," answered the hostess.

"Nay, but," said the guest, "if you had sent there for my letter, you would have learned"----

"I'm no wanting to learn ony thing at my years," said Meg. "If folk have ony thing to write
to me about, they may gie the letter to John Hislop, the carrier, that has used the road these
forty years. As for the letters at the post-mistress's, as they ca' her, down by yonder, they
may bide in her shop-window, wi' the snaps and bawbee rows, till Beltane, or I loose them.
I'll never file my fingers with them. Post-mistress, indeed!--Upsetting cutty! I mind her fu'
weel when she dree'd penance for ante-nup"----

Laughing, but interrupting Meg in good time for the character of the post-mistress, the stranger
assured her he had sent his fishing-rod and trunk to her confidential friend the carrier, and
that he sincerely hoped she would not turn an old acquaintance out of her premises, especially
as he believed he could not sleep in a bed within five miles of Saint Ronan's, if he knew that
her Blue room was unengaged.

"Fishing-rod!--Auld acquaintance!--Blue room!" echoed Meg, in some surprise; and, facing round
upon the stranger, and examining him with some interest and curiosity,--"Ye'll be nae bagman,
then, after a'?"

"No," said the traveller; "not since I have laid the saddle-bags out of my hand."

"Weel, I canna say but I am glad of that--I canna bide their yanking way of knapping English
at every word.--I have kent decent lads amang them too--What for no?--But that was when they
stopped up here whiles, like other douce folk; but since they gaed down, the hail flight of
them, like a string of wild-geese, to the new-fashioned hottle yonder, I am told there are
as mony hellicate tricks played in the travellers' room, as they behove to call it, as if it
were fu' of drunken young lairds."

"That is because they have not you to keep good order among them, Mistress Margaret."

"Ay, lad?" replied Meg, "ye are a fine blaw-in-my-lug, to think to cuittle me off sae cleverly!"
And, facing about upon her guest, she honoured him with a more close and curious investigation
than she had at first designed to bestow upon him.

All that she remarked was in her opinion rather favourable to the stranger. He was a well-made
man, rather above than under the middle size, and apparently betwixt five-and-twenty and thirty
years of age--for, although he might, at first glance, have passed for one who had attained
the latter period, yet, on a nearer examination, it seemed as if the burning sun of a warmer
climate than Scotland, and perhaps some fatigue, both of body and mind, had imprinted the marks
of care and of manhood upon his countenance, without abiding the course of years. His eyes
and teeth were excellent, and his other features, though they could scarce be termed handsome,
expressed sense and acuteness; he bore, in his aspect, that ease and composure of manner, equally
void of awkwardness and affectation, which is said emphatically to mark the gentleman; and,
although neither the plainness of his dress, nor the total want of the usual attendants, allowed
Meg to suppose him a wealthy man, she had little doubt that he was above the rank of her lodgers
in general. Amidst these observations, and while she was in the course of making them, the
good landlady was embarrassed with various obscure recollections of having seen the object
of them formerly; but when, or on what occasion, she was quite unable to call to remembrance.
She was particularly puzzled by the cold and sarcastic expression of a countenance, which she
could not by any means reconcile with the recollections which it awakened. At length she said,
with as much courtesy as she was capable of assuming,--"Either I have seen you before, sir,
or some ane very like ye?--Ye ken the Blue room, too, and you a stranger in these parts?"

"Not so much a stranger as you may suppose, Meg," said the guest, assuming a more intimate
tone, "when I call myself Frank Tyrrel."

"Tirl!" exclaimed Meg, with a tone of wonder--"It's impossible! You cannot be Francie Tirl,
the wild callant that was fishing and bird-nesting here seven or eight years syne--it canna
be--Francie was but a callant!"

"But add seven or eight years to that boy's life, Meg," said the stranger gravely, "and you
will find you have the man who is now before you."

"Even sae!" said Meg, with a glance at the reflection of her own countenance in the copper
coffee-pot, which she had scoured so brightly that it did the office of a mirror--"Just e'en
sae--but folk maun grow auld or die.--But, Maister Tirl, for I mauna ca' ye Francie now, I
am thinking"----

"Call me what you please, good dame," said the stranger; "it has been so long since I heard
any one call me by a name that sounded like former kindness, that such a one is more agreeable
to me than a lord's title would be."

"Weel, then, Maister Francie--if it be no offence to you--I hope ye are no a Nabob?"

"Not I, I can safely assure you, my old friend;--but what an I were?"

"Naething--only maybe I might bid ye gang farther, and be waur served.--Nabobs, indeed! the
country's plagued wi' them. They have raised the price of eggs and pootry for twenty miles
round--But what is my business?--They use amaist a' of them the Well down by--they need it,
ye ken, for the clearing of their copper complexions, that need scouring as much as my saucepans,
that naebody can clean but mysell."

"Well, my good friend," said Tyrrel, "the upshot of all this is, I hope, that I am to stay
and have dinner here?"

"What for no?" replied Mrs. Dods.

"And that I am to have the Blue room for a night or two--perhaps longer?"

"I dinna ken that," said the dame.--"The Blue room is the best--and they that get neist best,
are no ill aff in this warld."

"Arrange it as you will," said the stranger, "I leave the whole matter to you, mistress.--Meantime,
I will go see after my horse."

"The merciful man," said Meg, when her guest had left the kitchen, "is merciful to his beast.--He
had aye something about him by ordinar, that callant--But eh, sirs! there is a sair change
on his cheek-haffit since I saw him last!--He sall no want a good dinner for auld lang syne,
that I'se engage for."

Meg set about the necessary preparations with all the natural energy of her disposition, which
was so much exerted upon her culinary cares, that her two maids, on their return to the house,
escaped the bitter reprimand which she had been previously conning over, in reward for their
alleged slatternly negligence. Nay, so far did she carry her complaisance, that when Tyrrel
crossed the kitchen to recover his saddle-bags, she formally rebuked Eppie for an idle taupie,
for not carrying the gentleman's things to his room.

"I thank you, mistress," said Tyrrel; "but I have some drawings and colours in these saddle-bags,
and I always like to carry them myself."

"Ay, and are you at the painting trade yet?" said Meg; "an unco slaister ye used to make with
it lang syne."

"I cannot live without it," said Tyrrel; and taking the saddle-bags, was formally inducted
by the maid into a snug apartment, where he soon had the satisfaction to behold a capital dish
of minced collops, with vegetables, and a jug of excellent ale, placed on the table by the
careful hand of Meg herself. He could do no less, in acknowledgment of the honour, than ask
Meg for a bottle of the yellow seal, "if there was any of that excellent claret still left."

"Left?--ay is there, walth of it," said Meg; "I dinna gie it to every body--Ah! Maister Tirl,
ye have not got ower your auld tricks!--I am sure, if ye are painting for your leeving, as
you say, a little rum and water would come cheaper, and do ye as much good. But ye maun hae
your ain way the day, nae doubt, if ye should never have it again."

Away trudged Meg, her keys clattering as she went, and, after much rummaging, returned with
such a bottle of claret as no fashionable tavern could have produced, were it called for by
a duke, or at a duke's price; and she seemed not a little gratified when her guest assured
her that he had not yet forgotten its excellent flavour. She retired after these acts of hospitality,
and left the stranger to enjoy in quiet the excellent matters which she had placed before him.

But there was that on Tyrrel's mind which defied the enlivening power of good cheer and of
wine, which only maketh man's heart glad when that heart has no secret oppression to counteract
its influence. Tyrrel found himself on a spot which he had loved in that delightful season,
when youth and high spirits awaken all those flattering promises which are so ill kept to manhood.
He drew his chair into the embrasure of the old-fashioned window, and throwing up the sash
to enjoy the fresh air, suffered his thoughts to return to former days, while his eyes wandered
over objects which they had not looked upon for several eventful years. He could behold beneath
his eye, the lower part of the decayed village, as its ruins peeped from the umbrageous shelter
with which they were shrouded. Still lower down, upon the little holm which formed its church-yard,
was seen the Kirk of Saint Ronan's; and looking yet farther, towards the junction of Saint
Ronan's burn with the river which traversed the larger dale or valley, he could see whitened,
by the western sun, the rising houses, which were either newly finished, or in the act of being
built, about the medicinal spring.

"Time changes all around us," such was the course of natural though trite reflection, which
flowed upon Tyrrel's mind; "wherefore should loves and friendships have a longer date than
our dwellings and our monuments?" As he indulged these sombre recollections, his officious
landlady disturbed their tenor by her entrance.

"I was thinking to offer you a dish of tea, Maister Francie, just for the sake of auld lang
syne, and I'll gar the quean Beenie bring it here, and mask it mysell.--But ye arena done with
your wine yet?"

"I am indeed, Mrs. Dods," answered Tyrrel; "and I beg you will remove the bottle."

"Remove the bottle, and the wine no half drank out!" said Meg, displeasure lowering on her
brow; "I hope there is nae fault to be found wi' the wine, Maister Tirl?"

To this answer, which was put in a tone resembling defiance, Tyrrel submissively replied, by
declaring "the claret not only unexceptionable, but excellent."

"And what for dinna ye drink it, then?" said Meg, sharply; "folk should never ask for mair
liquor than they can make a gude use of. Maybe ye think we have the fashion of the table-dot,
as they ca' their newfangled ordinary down-by yonder, where a' the bits of vinegar cruets are
put awa into an awmry, as they tell me, and ilk ane wi' the bit dribbles of syndings in it,
and a paper about the neck o't, to show which of the customers is aught it--there they stand
like doctor's drogs--and no an honest Scottish mutchkin will ane o' their viols haud, granting
it were at the fouest."

"Perhaps," said Tyrrel, willing to indulge the spleen and prejudice of his old acquaintance,
"perhaps the wine is not so good as to make full measure desirable."

"Ye may say that, lad--and yet them that sell it might afford a gude penniworth, for they hae
it for the making--maist feck of it ne'er saw France or Portugal. But as I was saying--this
is no ane of their newfangled places, where wine is put by for them that canna drink it--when
the cork's drawn the bottle maun be drank out--and what for no?--unless it be corkit."

"I agree entirely, Meg," said her guest; "but my ride to-day has somewhat heated me--and I
think the dish of tea you promise me, will do me more good than to finish my bottle."

"Na, then, the best I can do for you is to put it by, to be sauce for the wild-duck the morn;
for I think ye said ye were to bide here for a day or twa."

"It is my very purpose, Meg, unquestionably," replied Tyrrel.

"Sae be it then," said Mrs. Dods; "and then the liquor's no lost--it has been seldom sic claret
as that has simmered in a saucepan, let me tell you that, neighbour;--and I mind the day, when,
headache or nae headache, ye wad hae been at the hinder-end of that bottle, and maybe anither,
if ye could have gotten it wiled out of me. But then ye had your cousin to help you--Ah! he
was a blithe bairn that Valentine Bulmer!--Ye were a canty callant too, Maister Francie, and
muckle ado I had to keep ye baith in order when ye were on the ramble. But ye were a thought
doucer than Valentine--But O! he was a bonny laddie!--wi' e'en like diamonds, cheeks like roses,
a head like a heather-tap--he was the first I ever saw wear a crap, as they ca' it, but a'
body cheats the barber now--and he had a laugh that wad hae raised the dead!--What wi' flyting
on him, and what wi' laughing at him, there was nae minding ony other body when that Valentine
was in the house.--And how is your cousin Valentine Bulmer, Maister Francie?"

Tyrrel looked down, and only answered with a sigh.

"Ay--and is it even sae?" said Meg; "and has the puir bairn been sae soon removed frae this
fashious warld?--Ay--ay--we maun a' gang ae gate--crackit quart stoups and geisen'd barrels--leaky
quaighs are we a', and canna keep in the liquor of life--Ohon, sirs!--Was the puir lad Bulmer
frae Bu'mer bay, where they land the Hollands, think ye, Maister Francie?--They whiles rin
in a pickle tea there too--I hope that is good that I have made you, Maister Francie?"

"Excellent, my good dame," said Tyrrel; but it was in a tone of voice which intimated that
she had pressed upon a subject that awakened some unpleasant reflections.

"And when did this puir lad die?" continued Meg, who was not without her share of Eve's qualities,
and wished to know something concerning what seemed to affect her guest so particularly; but
he disappointed her purpose, and at the same time awakened another train of sentiment in her
mind, by turning again to the window, and looking upon the distant buildings of Saint Ronan's
Well. As if he had observed for the first time these new objects, he said to Mistress Dods
in an indifferent tone, "You have got some gay new neighbours yonder, mistress."

"Neighbours!" said Meg, her wrath beginning to arise, as it always did upon any allusion to
this sore subject--"Ye may ca' them neighbours, if ye like--but the deil flee awa wi' the neighbourhood
for Meg Dods!"

"I suppose," said Tyrrel, as if he did not observe her displeasure, "that yonder is the Fox
Hotel they told me of?"

"The Fox!" said Meg: "I am sure it is the fox that has carried off a' my geese.--I might shut
up house, Maister Francie, if it was the thing I lived by--me, that has seen a' our gentlefolk
bairns, and gien them snaps and sugar-biscuit maist of them wi' my ain hand! They wad hae seen
my father's roof-tree fa' down and smoor me before they wad hae gien a boddle a-piece to have
propped it up--but they could a' link out their fifty pounds ower head to bigg a hottle at
the Well yonder. And muckle they hae made o't--the bankrupt body, Sandie Lawson, hasna paid
them a bawbee of four terms' rent."

"Surely, mistress, I think if the Well became so famous for its cures, the least the gentlemen
could have done was to make you the priestess."

"Me priestess! I am nae Quaker, I wot, Maister Francie; and I never heard of alewife that turned
preacher, except Luckie Buchan in the west.[I-8] And if I were to preach, I think I have mair
the spirit of a Scottishwoman, than to preach in the very room they hae been dancing in ilka
night in the week, Saturday itsell not excepted, and that till twal o'clock at night. Na, na,
Maister Francie; I leave the like o' that to Mr. Simon Chatterly, as they ca' the bit prelatical
sprig of divinity from the town yonder, that plays at cards, and dances six days in the week,
and on the seventh reads the Common Prayer-book in the ball-room, with Tam Simson, the drunken
barber, for his clerk."

"I think I have heard of Mr. Chatterly," said Tyrrel.

"Ye'll be thinking o' the sermon he has printed," said the angry dame, "where he compares their
nasty puddle of a Well yonder to the pool of Bethseda, like a foul-mouthed, fleeching, feather-headed
fule as he is! He should hae kend that the place got a' its fame in the times of black Popery;
and though they pat it in St. Ronan's name, I'll never believe for one that the honest man
had ony hand in it; for I hae been tell'd by ane that suld ken, that he was nae Roman, but
only a Cuddie, or Culdee,[I-C] or such like.--But will ye not take anither dish of tea, Maister
Francie? and a wee bit of the diet-loaf, raised wi' my ain fresh butter, Maister Francie? and
no wi' greasy kitchen-fee, like the seedcake down at the confectioner's yonder, that has as
mony dead flees as carvy in it. Set him up for a confectioner!--Wi' a penniworth of rye-meal,
and anither of tryacle, and twa or three carvy-seeds, I will make better confections than ever
cam out of his oven."

"I have no doubt of that, Mrs. Dods," said the guest; "and I only wish to know how these new
comers were able to establish themselves against a house of such good reputation and old standing
as yours?--It was the virtues of the mineral, I dare say; but how came the waters to recover
a character all at once, mistress?"

"I dinna ken, sir--they used to be thought good for naething, but here and there for a puir
body's bairn, that had gotten the cruells,[I-9] and could not afford a penniworth of salts.
But my Leddy Penelope Penfeather had fa'an ill, it's like, as nae other body ever fell ill,
and sae she was to be cured some gate naebody was ever cured, which was naething mair than
was reasonable--and my leddy, ye ken, has wit at wull, and has a' the wise folk out from Edinburgh
at her house at Windywa's yonder, which it is her leddyship's wull and pleasure to call Air-castle--and
they have a' their different turns, and some can clink verses, wi' their tale, as weel as Rob
Burns or Allan Ramsay--and some rin up hill and down dale, knapping the chucky stanes to pieces
wi' hammers, like sae mony road-makers run daft--they say it is to see how the warld was made!--and
some that play on all manner of ten-stringed instruments--and a wheen sketching souls, that
ye may see perched like craws on every craig in the country, e'en working at your ain trade,
Maister Francie; forby men that had been in foreign parts, or said they had been there, whilk
is a' ane, ye ken; and maybe twa or three draggletailed misses, that wear my Leddy Penelope's
follies when she has dune wi' them, as her queans of maids wear her second-hand claithes. So,
after her leddyship's happy recovery, as they ca'd it, down cam the hail tribe of wild-geese,
and settled by the Well, to dine thereout on the bare grund, like a wheen tinklers; and they
had sangs, and tunes, and healths, nae doubt, in praise of the fountain, as they ca'd the Well,
and of Leddy Penelope Penfeather; and, lastly, they behoved a' to take a solemn bumper of the
spring, which, as I'm tauld, made unco havoc amang them or they wan hame; and this they ca'd
picknick, and a plague to them! And sae the jig was begun after her leddyship's pipe, and mony
a mad measure has been danced sin' syne; for down cam masons and murgeon-makers, and preachers
and player-folk, and Episcopalians and Methodists, and fools and fiddlers, and Papists and
pie-bakers, and doctors and drugsters; by the shop-folk, that sell trash and trumpery at three
prices--and so up got the bonny new Well, and down fell the honest auld town of Saint Ronan's,
where blithe decent folk had been heartsome eneugh for mony a day before ony o' them were born,
or ony sic vapouring fancies kittled in their cracked brains."

"What said your landlord, the Laird of Saint Ronan's, to all this?" said Tyrrel.

"Is't my landlord ye are asking after, Maister Francie?--the Laird of Saint Ronan's is nae
landlord of mine, and I think ye might hae minded that.--Na, na, thanks be to Praise! Meg Dods
is baith landlord and landleddy. Ill eneugh to keep the doors open as it is, let be facing
Whitsunday and Martinmas--an auld leather pock there is, Maister Francie, in ane of worthy
Maister Bindloose the sheriff-clerk's pigeon-holes, in his dowcot of a closet in the burgh;
and therein is baith charter and sasine, and special service to boot; and that will be chapter
and verse, speer when ye list."

"I had quite forgotten," said Tyrrel, "that the inn was your own; though I remember you were
a considerable landed proprietor."

"Maybe I am," replied Meg, "maybe I am not: and if I be, what for no?--But as to what the Laird,
whose grandfather was my father's landlord, said to the new doings yonder--he just jumped at
the ready penny, like a cock at a grosert, and feu'd the bonny holm beside the Well, that they
ca'd the Saint-Well-holm, that was like the best land in his aught, to be carved, and biggit,
and howkit up, just at the pleasure of Jock Ashler the stane-mason, that ca's himsell an arkiteck--there's
nae living for new words in this new warld neither, and that is another vex to auld folk such
as me.--It's a shame o' the young Laird, to let his auld patrimony gang the gate it's like
to gang, and my heart is sair to see't, though it has but little cause to care what comes of
him or his."

"Is it the same Mr. Mowbray," said Mr. Tyrrel, "who still holds the estate?--the old gentleman,
you know, whom I had some dispute with"----

"About hunting moorfowl upon the Spring-well-head muirs?" said Meg. "Ah, lad! honest Mr. Bindloose
brought you neatly off there--Na, it's no that honest man, but his son John Mowbray--the t'other
has slept down-by in Saint Ronan's Kirk for these six or seven years."

"Did he leave," asked Tyrrel, with something of a faltering voice, "no other child than the
present Laird?"

"No other son," said Meg; "and there's e'en eneugh, unless he could have left a better ane."

"He died then," said Tyrrel, "excepting this son, without children?"

"By your leave, no," said Meg; "there is the lassie Miss Clara, that keeps house for the Laird,
if it can be ca'd keeping house, for he is almost aye down at the Well yonder--so a sma' kitchen
serves them at the Shaws."

"Miss Clara will have but a dull time of it there during her brother's absence?" said the stranger.

"Out no!--he has her aften jinketing about, and back and forward, wi' a' the fine flichtering
fools that come yonder; and clapping palms wi' them, and linking at their dances and daffings.
I wuss nae ill come o't, but it's a shame her father's daughter should keep company wi' a'
that scauff and raff of physic-students, and writers' prentices, and bagmen, and siclike trash
as are down at the Well yonder."

"You are severe, Mrs. Dods," replied the guest. "No doubt Miss Clara's conduct deserves all
sort of freedom."

"I am saying naething against her conduct," said the dame; "and there's nae ground to say onything
that I ken of--But I wad hae like draw to like, Maister Francie. I never quarrelled the ball
that the gentry used to hae at my bit house a gude wheen years bygane--when they came, the
auld folk in their coaches, wi' lang-tailed black horses, and a wheen galliard gallants on
their hunting horses, and mony a decent leddy behind her ain goodman, and mony a bonny smirking
lassie on her pownie, and wha sae happy as they--And what for no? And then there was the farmers'
ball, wi' the tight lads of yeomen with the bran new blues and the buckskins--These were decent
meetings--but then they were a' ae man's bairns that were at them, ilk ane kend ilk other--they
danced farmers wi' farmers' daughters, at the tane, and gentles wi' gentle blood, at the t'other,
unless maybe when some of the gentlemen of the Killnakelty Club would gie me a round of the
floor mysell, in the way of daffing and fun, and me no able to flyte on them for laughing--I
am sure I never grudged these innocent pleasures, although it has cost me maybe a week's redding
up, before I got the better of the confusion."

"But, dame," said Tyrrel, "this ceremonial would be a little hard upon strangers like myself,
for how were we to find partners in these family parties of yours?"

"Never you fash your thumb about that, Maister Francie," returned the landlady, with a knowing
wink.--"Every Jack will find a Jill, gang the world as it may--and, at the warst o't, better
hae some fashery in finding a partner for the night, than get yoked with ane that you may not
be able to shake off the morn."

"And does that sometimes happen?" asked the stranger.

"Happen!--and is't amang the Well folk that ye mean?" exclaimed the hostess. "Was it not the
last season, as they ca't, no farther gane, that young Sir Bingo Binks, the English lad wi'
the red coat, that keeps a mail-coach, and drives it himsell, gat cleekit with Miss Rachel
Bonnyrigg, the auld Leddy Loupengirth's lang-legged daughter--and they danced sae lang thegither,
that there was mair said than suld hae been said about it--and the lad would fain hae louped
back, but the auld leddy held him to his tackle, and the Commissary Court and somebody else
made her Leddy Binks in spite of Sir Bingo's heart--and he has never daured take her to his
friends in England, but they have just wintered and summered it at the Well ever since--and
that is what the Well is good for!" 

Even if life were removed, as everything is expensive, and well treated, and dressed with a certain
class for class, income and salary are completely consumed, and thanks if you were not sometimes
in distress.

To get out of them, living lavishly and rise to higher position in the social hierarchy are two paths,
lit by hope, to the acute consideration of Dona Beatriz, which brooded
a lot about these things since he left the place, already married.

Doña Beatriz was the highest form of intelligence and knowledge of her husband. Attributed their
lack of success in the world to neglect, contempt or disdain that Don Braulio was all practical,
a certain lack of stimulus that could see into his soul, and was inclined to believe that
if she encouraged and spurred the soul of her husband and away from
theoretical vague dreams and distractions that led to nothing, it
was still possible to see him as Minister of Finance, or at least
Director of Monopolies.

The other point, it was as the foundation or cornerstone on which
stood Beatriz the castle of his ambitious hopes, was the beauty, the
elegance and distinction of his sister Ines.

Doña Beatriz, married and with a man who worshiped and wanted, and who was indebted to have
left the place where he drowned, and spaced by large cities, limiting its mission to achieve the
greatness to serve as a spur to the reluctant will of her husband; but Inesita, single and
free and full of attractive, she would know and enforce complete
with his wisdom, saw a reef Beatriz still intact, a rich mining of
all property, encumbrances and prosperity.

Import declaration in honor of Dona Beatriz, who draw on their imaginations to the ascending process
of each other plan of happiness, now using Don Braulio, Inesita prays never occurred to him put
in the composition of the least touch his picture sinful. Nothing thief comes. Doña Beatriz I wanted
to play fair.

Don Braulio had to be first-rate character without stain nails, and Ines was to be a countess,
marquise, and who knows if Duchess, without the least levity and all ecclesiastical and civil requirements.

Beatriz's
pride, his aristocratic decorum, which was, though born poor diapers, and their Christian beliefs,
alive and fervent as educated by a priest ejemplarísima of virtue, repelled any remedy that
might tarnish, but his desire to rise and raise your family will
suggest, in his view, decent and honest means by which to achieve
wealth, honors and awards, with ease and without dishonor or guilt.

Doña Beatriz fully discovered their plans and hopes and Inesita Don Braulio. He feared to frighten
and scare saliesen contradiction and opposition. Cautious and cunning, deftly bring the dream of
one and the other in the ways that she deemed conducive the term
to which he aspired, and already committed and placed in him, and
when it was very difficult to return ago, it declared its purpose
and show the term, if not see him.

With Ines, above all, that was about poetry and inexperienced, Beatriz came to top caution and dissimulation.

From
the night they had gone to the Buen Retiro had spoken several times
of the gentle knight that had followed, but never discover all his
thinking.

Doña Beatriz, by the phrases he had heard the Earl of Alhedín and his companions, by the car he
had seen and some news that after he had collected with skill, know the Count was single, very
rich, very noble, no father, and a mother who had no will but yours. Now, what is impossible
that the Count would fall in love Inesita resolutely and marry her?

More mixed marriages have been and see every day.

With a little luck and with rare discretion of Dona Beatriz was deemed gifted, well Inesita could
marry the Count. Ines was, as mentioned above, an adorable creature. Until his indifference
to its spirit, slept all ambition, could contribute to winning.

Nothing will damage both the other girls in this to catch a good marriage, as the naive and ill-disguised
effort to catch him.

Thus, Beatriz from sleeping with his sister and did not seek to awaken
their ambition.

That indifferent and sublime dream was a powerful weapon which should not be detached. She,
tell until a suitable opportunity came, would lead to her sister without removing the poetic
sleepwalking.

Sleepwalking and everything mattered, however, that Ines should move itself, and for this Dona
Beatriz had already played, and even thought to touch, any other
spring of your soul less the ambition and greed.

With these plans and intentions, the evening of the Earl heard at the Ministry of Finance who their
unknown, they talked alone in his poor house, while waiting Don Braulio, who was working in
the Secretariat.

- I do not understand, Ines - Beatriz said, sitting in an armchair in front of his sister -.
I rave no, nothing is special. I want it to my husband and my duty to my lie to give life
happy, and so I have nothing to find out. I can live enclosed four walls without despair.
What can I do, what I can suck me off here? But you, single, young and pretty, is a marvel to resign
yourself to this retreat and isolation in which we live. Braulio is very good, it would be a
saint if he were a better Christian; but is a ferret and has its quirks. He does not want us to
return alone to the Gardens. And that ignoring the persecution of that Condesito. I want to take
you to the Gardens to see if you distracted, because you seem sad,
but what will we do?

We can not go alone Braulio licensed, let alone secretly. God forbid that I oppose what he commands.
It would also be easy to know it all. There is, therefore, more resources to wait while Braulio
willing and able to join us. Just finished his extraordinary work and not have to go at night the
Ministry. Meanwhile not go tomorrow, which is Sunday.

Tomorrow we will lead. I'll get it. Do you accommodate?

- I have no impatience or eagerness to have fun - said Ines -. I can well understand Braulio
does not want to go alone. We as girls both! ... You seem almost more younger than me. We
are exposed to a thousand frights ... to persecute us ... to disrespect
us ... as the rake the other night.

- You exaggerate ... Count Alhedín
not disrespected us.

The poor followed us like a fool ... had its temptations to speak, but after he dared not, and
did well. It would have been tomfoolery unforgivable in person so many bells and run. The truth
is that too excited to show off so disgusted, scornful and invulnerable. My daughter, you gave sight.

-
Sister - Ines replied with great simplicity and naturalness - do not try to flatter me esteem.
I do not believe. In any case it was you, not I, who Condesito arrow, although jokes leaving
us, which we believe is that neither you nor I arrows.

Excited their curiosity so as no one knows us. As a slacker, he wanted to follow us to pass
the time. Such Once the cause of which we follow for us was not flattering, but offensive,
perhaps, the see us alone and so young, he was of us an idea ...

- You can ... Perhaps we misjudged the top, but do not hesitate, as risky trial and the passenger
was unfavorable. It does not follow who was not expected, as we continued the count. Those
hesitations, those utterly, that shy in person so carefree and bold,
born of respect, not contempt.

In addition, a man of the world, understood as he is, no could fall but for a brief moment
in such an absurd hallucination.

Look in that mirror - and Beatriz noted one that was hung in front,
decorating the room - and it would be necessary be stupid not to understand
who you are, to think badly of you to see that face.

Doña Beatriz gave it to his sister kisses a dozen of sound, rising from his seat and embracing.

- How good and how crazy you are! - Ines said.

Then he added:

- Come, I wish indeed that Count followed us with enthusiasm, but
enthusiasm why what had to be me, not you, who inspired him?

Do you think the Count guessed that you're married?

- Undoubtedly.

I could not believe otherwise, seeing me alone with you and keep
us women honored.

- But I have heard that the libertines serve more
to married women and unmarried women - continued Inesita with the
terrible frankness of his childlike innocence.

- It's not a rule.

I, however, to concede that it is. I still affirm that there is no rule without exception
and in this case, the Count has pursued the spinster.

- And why do you affirm?

- Because I've seen.

- I saw nothing, for
not looking.

- Mirases not approve.

That modesty, that indifference you, stung the Count. If you reach look at him you would have
followed, but more daring, with less effort.

- Then you, you looked,
as you observed so much, how did you not be mean concept of you?

-
For married women, when we are not really dumb, we use many styles
to look at, and I I looked as it should.

Inesita opened his eyes and mouth, and shocked, to hear that there were several styles to watch.

Doña
Beatriz, not abandon his idea that the innocence of his sister gave him more money, he began to
think that if this candor bordering on blindness, could harm their plans. Something seemed
desirable and when not to unleash the band, loosen it a bit.

It was time to start to Inesita in the simplest mysteries of this
rogue world.

Moved by this thought, Beatriz said:

- Yes, my daughter, there are many styles to watch.

- Okay, sister, and I understand it - said Ines -.

Although I'm pretty stupid and ignorant all, because the people I've
spent my life sewing, playing with dolls, taking care our old tutor
and fixing the small altar, where San Antonio was the Christ Child
in the arms, while you were reading, studies and conversations, still
reaches me that look in different ways: for example, with affection
and indifference.

- Yes.

- I do not understand is why the wives
know that, and do not know why single women.

- For single women should
not know, because if they do, they should pretend to ignore it, and
because they lose a lot if you look through art, not to be so wonderful
to look at art that even the most cunning you note.

- And tell me,
sister, do not it could be that, without reflection, and by virtue
of that instinct, more and less fallible inspired reflection, looked
silly sometimes a single as well or better married to the most skilled?

-
Everything is possible.

Ingenuity can do everything. I, however, to tell you the three major
pitfalls they may encounter if you try to look at men.

First obstacle: that you be the eyes behind those who look, which is surrender, surrender and
feet tied and hands, making love to warm you if you breathe in, or profane and ridicule and mock
Your love if you do not apply.

Second obstacle: that look like shyness or distrust amazed and surly, and risk a silly pass
soda or not so. And the third obstacle, which possesses look at the science and other sciences
that presuppose the look, failed to conceal and ensure this wisdom,
and you accused and zahieran of lizard, of Lycurgus, the brash and
free and sick known for married.

- I think, Beatrice, in order to
avoid these pitfalls it is best to let go of the impulse.

- Oh, my
daughter!

No phrase meaningless. According Braulio, who read many tomes in leisure, at least as mankind has
twelve thousand years of civilization. Where will become of the legitimate and natural pure
impulse, after the fuss of beliefs, laws, doctrines, customs, habits, fashions and social conventions?
Take a Greyhound to your natural momentum. Become a savage, or seek him among the wild if you
have it. In addition, the natural impulse, the impulse of mere nature, is sinful and wrong. I miss
a girl, so good Christian as you are, be wary of natural impulse. Well good nature was then original
sin, for us to trust it.

- Women, I was wrong, I explained wrong.

What I meant was that it should get carried away, to look like for
all of my Christian feelings, that my natural impulse, as amended
and refined by the moral and religious education, thank God, I have
received.

- But look here, innocent!

What brings the doctrine of the Father Ripalda on these interesting details? Not anticipated
and left you in the dark. Our tutor, in the long sermons to us missed, never touched this point.
How did they calculate the Father and our guardian Ripalda were going to stroll in the Buen
Retiro, and you would be chased by a Condesito, handsome, elegant, noble, with car and drives more
than 15,000 income? In this complicated case involving thousand elements alien to the moral theology.
And what is the car, the elegance, the county, income of 15,000, the concerts of the Buen
Retiro and countless other circumstances, nothing have to do with nature are on the summit of it,
can and should be regarded as supernatural, because they are added
and superimposed on the natural and the culture of the century.

Laughter and good humor with which Dona Beatriz said all this a bit
puzzled Inesita.

Also did not know whether to cast it as a joke or replicate seriously. Resolvióse the end of the
second, and said:

- Sister, whether natural or supernatural circumstances, persist in believing safer any device
and study this I call my natural impulse. Sincerity and honesty is always what counts brings up the
practical and useful. I deny that science or the art of looking. For anything you need. A girl
must look honest and modest every lover of good breeding and advise, not to appear rude, in
general affect he feels or should feel for all others, and with due caution, that the gallant not misinterpret
his benevolence and the promise happy.

If you pass the handsome heartthrob indifferent a handsome lover, and love inspire the girl the
convenient way of looking at who you love, without you drop in to learn it by art.

- Hey, Ines - "Dona Beatriz -, no joke I'm talking about, but with great seriousness in the
background. You'd be right in what you say if there were no transition period between being
in love and not to be. You yourself have said. If the suitor goes from indifferent to love.
 The acknowledgment of the Doctor's merit as having been
first to proclaim and vindicate the merits of these healing fountains, had occasioned his being
universally installed First Physician and Man of Science, which last qualification he could
apply to all purposes, from the boiling of an egg to the giving a lecture. He was, indeed,
qualified, like many of his profession, to spread both the bane and antidote before a dyspeptic
patient, being as knowing a gastronome as Dr. Redgill himself, or any other worthy physician
who has written for the benefit of the cuisine, from Dr. Moncrieff of Tippermalloch, to the
late Dr. Hunter of York, and the present Dr. Kitchiner of London. But pluralities are always
invidious, and therefore the Doctor prudently relinquished the office of caterer and head-carver
to the Man of Taste, who occupied regularly, and ex officio, the head of the table, reserving
to himself the occasional privilege of criticising, and a principal share in consuming, the
good things which the common entertainment afforded. We have only to sum up this brief account
of the learned Doctor, by informing the reader that he was a tall, lean, beetle-browed man,
with an ill-made black scratch-wig, that stared out on either side from his lantern jaws. He
resided nine months out of the twelve at St. Ronan's, and was supposed to make an indifferent
good thing of it,--especially as he played whist to admiration.

First in place, though perhaps second to the Doctor in real authority, was Mr. Winterblossom;
a civil sort of person, who was nicely precise in his address, wore his hair cued, and dressed
with powder, had knee-buckles set with Bristol stones, and a seal-ring as large as Sir John
Falstaff's. In his heyday he had a small estate, which he had spent like a gentleman, by mixing
with the gay world. He was, in short, one of those respectable links that connect the coxcombs
of the present day with those of the last age, and could compare, in his own experience, the
follies of both. In latter days, he had sense enough to extricate himself from his course of
dissipation, though with impaired health and impoverished fortune.

Mr. Winterblossom now lived upon a moderate annuity, and had discovered a way of reconciling
his economy with much company and made dishes, by acting as perpetual president of the table-d'hote
at the Well. Here he used to amuse the society by telling stories about Garrick, Foote, Bonnel
Thornton, and Lord Kelly, and delivering his opinions in matters of taste and vertu. An excellent
carver, he knew how to help each guest to what was precisely his due; and never failed to reserve
a proper slice as the reward of his own labours. To conclude, he was possessed of some taste
in the fine arts, at least in painting and music, although it was rather of the technical kind,
than that which warms the heart and elevates the feelings. There was, indeed, about Winterblossom,
nothing that was either warm or elevated. He was shrewd, selfish, and sensual; the last two
of which qualities he screened from observation, under a specious varnish of exterior complaisance.
Therefore, in his professed and apparent anxiety to do the honours of the table, to the most
punctilious point of good breeding, he never permitted the attendants upon the public taste
to supply the wants of others, until all his own private comforts had been fully arranged and
provided for.

Mr. Winterblossom was also distinguished for possessing a few curious engravings, and other
specimens of art, with the exhibition of which he occasionally beguiled a wet morning at the
public room. They were collected, "viis et modis," said the Man of Law, another distinguished
member of the Committee, with a knowing cock of his eye to his next neighbour.

Of this person little need be said. He was a large-boned, loud-voiced, red-faced man, named
Meiklewham; a country writer, or attorney, who managed the matters of the Squire much to the
profit of one or other,--if not of both. His nose projected from the front of his broad vulgar
face, like the stile of an old sun-dial, twisted all of one side. He was as great a bully in
his profession, as if it had been military instead of civil: conducted the whole technicalities
concerning the cutting up the Saint's-Well-haugh, so much lamented by Dame Dods, into building-stances,
and was on excellent terms with Doctor Quackleben, who always recommended him to make the wills
of his patients.

After the Man of Law comes Captain Mungo MacTurk, a Highland lieutenant on half-pay, and that
of ancient standing; one who preferred toddy of the strongest to wine, and in that fashion
and cold drams finished about a bottle of whisky per diem, whenever he could come by it. He
was called the Man of Peace, on the same principle which assigns to constables, Bow-street
runners, and such like, who carry bludgeons to break folk's heads, and are perpetually and
officially employed in scenes of riot, the title of peace-officers--that is, because by his
valour he compelled others to act with discretion. The Captain was the general referee in all
those abortive quarrels, which, at a place of this kind, are so apt to occur at night, and
to be quietly settled in the morning; and occasionally adopted a quarrel himself, by way of
taking down any guest who was unusually pugnacious. This occupation procured Captain MacTurk
a good deal of respect at the Well; for he was precisely that sort of person who is ready to
fight with any one,--whom no one can find an apology for declining to fight with,--in fighting
with whom considerable danger was incurred, for he was ever and anon showing that he could
snuff a candle with a pistol ball,--and lastly, through fighting with whom no eclat or credit
could redound to the antagonist. He always wore a blue coat and red collar, had a supercilious
taciturnity of manner, ate sliced leeks with his cheese, and resembled in complexion a Dutch
red-herring.

Still remains to be mentioned the Man of Religion--the gentle Mr. Simon Chatterly, who had
strayed to St. Ronan's Well from the banks of Cam or Isis, and who piqued himself, first on
his Greek, and secondly, on his politeness to the ladies. During all the week days, as Dame
Dods has already hinted, this reverend gentleman was the partner at the whist-table, or in
the ball-room, to what maid or matron soever lacked a partner at either; and on the Sundays,
he read prayers in the public room to all who chose to attend. He was also a deviser of charades,
and an unriddler of riddles; he played a little on the flute, and was Mr. Winterblossom's principal
assistant in contriving those ingenious and romantic paths, by which, as by the zig-zags which
connect military parallels, you were enabled to ascend to the top of the hill behind the hotel,
which commands so beautiful a prospect, at exactly that precise angle of ascent, which entitles
a gentleman to offer his arm, and a lady to accept it, with perfect propriety.

There was yet another member of this Select Committee, Mr. Michael Meredith, who might be termed
the Man of Mirth, or, if you please, the Jack Pudding to the company, whose business it was
to crack the best joke, and sing the best song,--he could. Unluckily, however, this functionary
was for the present obliged to absent himself from St. Ronan's; for, not recollecting that
he did not actually wear the privileged motley of his profession, he had passed some jest upon
Captain MacTurk, which cut so much to the quick, that Mr. Meredith was fain to go to goat-whey
quarters, at some ten miles' distance, and remain there in a sort of concealment, until the
affair should be made up through the mediation of his brethren of the Committee.

Such were the honest gentlemen who managed the affairs of this rising settlement, with as much
impartiality as could be expected. They were not indeed without their own secret predilections;
for the lawyer and the soldier privately inclined to the party of the Squire, while the parson,
Mr. Meredith, and Mr. Winterblossom, were more devoted to the interests of Lady Penelope; so
that Doctor Quackleben alone, who probably recollected that the gentlemen were as liable to
stomach complaints, as the ladies to nervous disorders, seemed the only person who preserved
in word and deed the most rigid neutrality. Nevertheless, the interests of the establishment
being very much at the heart of this honourable council, and each feeling his own profit, pleasure,
or comfort, in some degree involved, they suffered not their private affections to interfere
with their public duties, but acted, every one in his own sphere, for the public benefit of
the whole community.

FOOTNOTES:

[I-10] The usual expression for a slight encroachment on a neighbour's property.

[I-11] The said piper was famous at the mystery.

[I-12] Skates are called sketchers in Scotland.

CHAPTER IV.

THE INVITATION.

    Thus painters write their names at Co.

PRIOR.

The clamour which attends the removal of dinner from a public room had subsided; the clatter
of plates, and knives and forks--the bustling tread of awkward boobies of country servants,
kicking each other's shins, and wrangling, as they endeavour to rush out of the door three
abreast--the clash of glasses and tumblers, borne to earth in the tumult--the shrieks of the
landlady--the curses, not loud, but deep, of the landlord--had all passed away; and those of
the company who had servants, had been accommodated by their respective Ganymedes with such
remnants of their respective bottles of wine, spirits, &c., as the said Ganymedes had not previously
consumed, while the rest, broken in to such observance by Mr. Winterblossom, waited patiently
until the worthy president's own special and multifarious commissions had been executed by
a tidy young woman and a lumpish lad, the regular attendants belonging to the house, but whom
he permitted to wait on no one, till, as the hymn says,

    "All his wants were well supplied."

"And, Dinah--my bottle of pale sherry, Dinah--place it on this side--there's a good girl;--and,
Toby--get my jug with the hot water--and let it be boiling--and don't spill it on Lady Penelope,
if you can help it, Toby."

"No--for her ladyship has been in hot water to-day already," said the Squire; a sarcasm to
which Lady Penelope only replied with a look of contempt.

"And, Dinah, bring the sugar--the soft East India sugar, Dinah--and a lemon, Dinah, one of
those which came fresh to-day--Go fetch it from the bar, Toby--and don't tumble down stairs,
if you can help it.--And, Dinah--stay, Dinah--the nutmeg, Dinah, and the ginger, my good girl--And,
Dinah--put the cushion up behind my back--and the footstool to my foot, for my toe is something
the worse of my walk with your ladyship this morning to the top of Belvidere."

"Her ladyship may call it what she pleases in common parlance," said the writer; "but it must
stand Munt-grunzie in the stamped paper, being so nominated in the ancient writs and evidents
thereof."

"And, Dinah," continued the president, "lift up my handkerchief--and--a bit of biscuit, Dinah--and--and
I do not think I want any thing else--Look to the company, my good girl.--I have the honour
to drink the company's very good health--Will your ladyship honour me by accepting a glass
of negus?--I learned to make negus from old Dartineuf's son.--He always used East India sugar
and added a tamarind--it improves the flavour infinitely.--Dinah, see your father sends for
some tamarinds--Dartineuf knew a good thing almost as well as his father--I met him at Bath
in the year--let me see--Garrick was just taking leave, and that was in," &c. &c. &c.--"And
what is this now, Dinah?" he said, as she put into his hand a roll of paper.

"Something that Nelly Trotter" (Trotting Nelly, as the company called her) "brought from a
sketching gentleman that lives at the woman's" (thus bluntly did the upstart minx describe
the reverend Mrs. Margaret Dods) "at the Cleikum of Aultoun yonder"--A name, by the way, which
the inn had acquired from the use which the saint upon the sign-post was making of his pastoral
crook.

"Indeed, Dinah?" said Mr. Winterblossom, gravely taking out his spectacles, and wiping them
before he opened the roll of paper; "some boy's daubing, I suppose, whose pa and ma wish to
get him into the Trustees' School, and so are beating about for a little interest.--But I am
drained dry--I put three lads in last season; and if it had not been my particular interest
with the secretary, who asks my opinion now and then, I could not have managed it. But giff-gaff,
say I.--Eh! What, in the devil's name, is this?--Here is both force and keeping--Who can this
be, my lady?--Do but see the sky-line--why, this is really a little bit--an exquisite little
bit--Who the devil can it be? and how can he have stumbled upon the dog-hole in the Old Town,
and the snarling b----I beg your ladyship ten thousand pardons--that kennels there?"

"I dare say, my lady," said a little miss of fourteen, her eyes growing rounder and rounder,
and her cheeks redder and redder, as she found herself speaking, and so many folks listening--"O
la! I dare say it is the same gentleman we met one day in the Low-wood walk, that looked like
a gentleman, and yet was none of the company, and that you said was a handsome man."

"I did not say handsome, Maria," replied her ladyship; "ladies never say men are handsome--I
only said he looked genteel and interesting."

"And that, my lady," said the young parson, bowing and smiling, "is, I will be judged by the
company, the more flattering compliment of the two--We shall be jealous of this Unknown presently."

"Nay, but," continued the sweetly communicative Maria, with some real and some assumed simplicity,
"your ladyship forgets--for you said presently after, you were sure he was no gentleman, for
he did not run after you with your glove which you had dropped--and so I went back myself to
find your ladyship's glove, and he never offered to help me, and I saw him closer than your
ladyship did, and I am sure he is handsome, though he is not very civil."

"You speak a little too much and too loud, miss," said Lady Penelope, a natural blush reinforcing
the nuance of rouge by which it was usually superseded.

"What say you to that, Squire Mowbray?" said the elegant Sir Bingo Binks.

"A fair challenge to the field, Sir Bingo," answered the squire; "when a lady throws down the
gauntlet, a gentleman may throw the handkerchief."

"I have always the benefit of your best construction, Mr. Mowbray," said the lady, with dignity.
"I suppose Miss Maria has contrived this pretty story for your amusement. I can hardly answer
to Mr. Digges, for bringing her into company where she receives encouragement to behave so."

"Nay, nay, my lady," said the president, "you must let the jest pass by; and since this is
really such an admirable sketch, you must honour us with your opinion, whether the company
can consistently with propriety make any advances to this man."

"In my opinion," said her ladyship, the angry spot still glowing on her brow, "there are enough
of men among us already--I wish I could say gentlemen--As matters stand, I see little business
ladies can have at St. Ronan's."

This was an intimation which always brought the Squire back to good-breeding, which he could
make use of when he pleased. He deprecated her ladyship's displeasure, until she told him,
in returning good humour, that she really would not trust him unless he brought his sister
to be security for his future politeness.

"Clara, my lady," said Mowbray, "is a little wilful; and I believe your ladyship must take
the task of unharbouring her into your own hands. What say you to a gipsy party up to my old
shop?--It is a bachelor's house--you must not expect things in much order; but Clara would
be honoured"----

The Lady Penelope eagerly accepted the proposal of something like a party, and, quite reconciled
with Mowbray, began to enquire whether she might bring the stranger artist with her; "that
is," said her ladyship, looking to Dinah, "if he be a gentleman."

Here Dinah interposed her assurance, "that the gentleman at Meg Dods's was quite and clean
a gentleman, and an illustrated poet besides."

"An illustrated poet, Dinah?" said Lady Penelope; "you must mean an illustrious poet."

"I dare to say your ladyship is right," said Dinah, dropping a curtsy.

A joyous flutter of impatient anxiety was instantly excited through all the blue-stocking faction
of the company, nor were the news totally indifferent to the rest of the community. The former
belonged to that class, who, like the young Ascanius, are ever beating about in quest of a
tawny lion, though they are much more successful in now and then starting a great bore;[I-13]
and the others, having left all their own ordinary affairs and subjects of interest at home,
were glad to make a matter of importance of the most trivial occurrence. A mighty poet, said
the former class--who could it possibly be?--All names were recited--all Britain scrutinized,
from Highland hills to the Lakes of Cumberland--from Sydenham Common to St. James's Place--even
the Banks of the Bosphorus were explored for some name which might rank under this distinguished
epithet.--And then, besides his illustrious poesy, to sketch so inimitably!--who could it be?
And all the gapers, who had nothing of their own to suggest, answered with the antistrophe,
"Who could it be?"

The Claret-Club, which comprised the choicest and firmest adherents of Squire Mowbray and the
Baronet--men who scorned that the reversion of one bottle of wine should furnish forth the
feast of to-morrow, though caring nought about either of the fine arts in question, found out
an interest of their own, which centred in the same individual.

"I say, little Sir Bingo," said the Squire, "this is the very fellow that we saw down at the
Willow-slack on Saturday--he was tog'd gnostically enough, and cast twelve yards of line with
one hand--the fly fell like a thistledown on the water."

"Uich!" answered the party he addressed, in the accents of a dog choking in the collar.

"We saw him pull out the salmon yonder," said Mowbray; "you remember--clean fish--the tide-ticks
on his gills--weighed, I dare say, a matter of eighteen pounds."

"Sixteen!" replied Sir Bingo, in the same tone of strangulation.

"None of your rigs, Bing!" said his companion, "--nearer eighteen than sixteen!"

"Nearer sixteen, by ----!"

"Will you go a dozen of blue on it to the company?" said the Squire.

"No, d---- me!" croaked the Baronet--"to our own set I will."

"Then, I say done!" quoth the Squire.

And "Done!" responded the Knight; and out came their red pocketbooks.

"But who shall decide the bet?" said the Squire, "The genius himself, I suppose; they talk
of asking him here, but I suppose he will scarce mind quizzes like them."

"Write myself--John Mowbray," said the Baronet.

"You, Baronet!--you write!" answered the Squire, "d---- me, that cock won't fight--you won't."

"I will," growled Sir Bingo, more articulately than usual.

"Why, you can't!" said Mowbray. "You never wrote a line in your life, save those you were whipped
for at school."

"I can write--I will write!" said Sir Bingo. "Two to one I will."

And there the affair rested, for the council of the company were in high consultation concerning
the most proper manner of opening a communication with the mysterious stranger; and the voice
of Mr. Winterblossom, whose tones, originally fine, age had reduced to falsetto, was calling
upon the whole party for "Order, order!" So that the bucks were obliged to lounge in silence,
with both arms reclined on the table, and testifying, by coughs and yawns, their indifference
to the matters in question, while the rest of the company debated upon them, as if they were
matters of life and death.

"A visit from one of the gentlemen--Mr. Winterblossom, if he would take the trouble--in name
of the company at large--would, Lady Penelope Penfeather presumed to think, be a necessary
preliminary to an invitation."

Mr. Winterblossom was "quite of her ladyship's opinion, and would gladly have been the personal
representative of the company at St. Ronan's Well--but it was up hill--her ladyship knew his
tyrant, the gout, was hovering upon the frontiers--there were other gentlemen, younger and
more worthy to fly at the lady's command than an ancient Vulcan like him--there was the valiant
Mars and the eloquent Mercury."

Thus speaking, he bowed to Captain MacTurk and the Rev. Mr. Simon Chatterly, and reclined on
his chair, sipping his negus with the self-satisfied smile of one, who, by a pretty speech,
has rid himself of a troublesome commission. At the same time, by an act probably of mental
absence, he put in his pocket the drawing, which, after circulating around the table, had returned
back to the chair of the president, being the point from which it had set out.

"By Cot, madam," said Captain MacTurk, "I should be proud to obey your leddyship's commands--but,
by Cot, I never call first on any man that never called upon me at all, unless it were to carry
him a friend's message, or such like."

"Twig the old connoisseur," said the Squire to the Knight.--"He is condiddling the drawing."

"Go it, Johnnie Mowbray--pour it into him," whispered Sir Bingo.

"Thank ye for nothing, Sir Bingo," said the Squire, in the same tone. "Winterblossom is one
of us--was one of us at least--and won't stand the ironing. He has his Wogdens still, that
were right things in his day, and can hit the hay-stack with the best of us--but stay, they
are hallooing on the parson."

They were indeed busied on all hands, to obtain Mr. Chatterly's consent to wait on the Genius
unknown; but though he smiled and simpered, and was absolutely incapable of saying No, he begged
leave, in all humility, to decline that commission. "The truth was," he pleaded in his excuse,
"that having one day walked to visit the old Castle of St. Ronan's, and returning through the
Auld Town, as it was popularly called, he had stopped at the door of the Cleikum," (pronounced
Anglicé, with the open diphthong,) "in hopes to get a glass of syrup of capillaire, or a draught
of something cooling; and had in fact expressed his wishes, and was knocking pretty loudly,
when a sash-window was thrown suddenly up, and ere he was aware what was about to happen, he
was soused with a deluge of water," (as he said,) "while the voice of an old hag from within
assured him, that if that did not cool him there was another biding him,--an intimation which
induced him to retreat in all haste from the repetition of the shower-bath."

All laughed at the account of the chaplain's misfortune, the history of which seemed to be
wrung from him reluctantly, by the necessity of assigning some weighty cause for declining
to execute the ladies' commands. But the Squire and Baronet continued their mirth far longer
than decorum allowed, flinging themselves back in their chairs, with their hands thrust into
their side-pockets, and their mouths expanded with unrestrained enjoyment, until the sufferer,
angry, disconcerted, and endeavouring to look scornful, incurred another general burst of laughter
on all hands.

When Mr. Winterblossom had succeeded in restoring some degree of order, he found the mishaps
of the young divine proved as intimidating as ludicrous. Not one of the company chose to go
Envoy Extraordinary to the dominions of Queen Meg, who might be suspected of paying little
respect to the sanctity of an ambassador's person. And what was worse, when it was resolved
that a civil card from Mr. Winterblossom, in the name of the company, should be sent to the
stranger, instead of a personal visit, Dinah informed them that she was sure no one about the
house could be bribed to carry up a letter of the kind; for, when such an event had taken place
two summers since, Meg, who construed it into an attempt to seduce from her tenement the invited
guest, had so handled a ploughboy who carried the letter, that he fled the country-side altogether,
and never thought himself safe till he was at a village ten miles off, where it was afterwards
learned he enlisted with a recruiting party, choosing rather to face the French than to return
within the sphere of Meg's displeasure.

Just while they were agitating this new difficulty, a prodigious clamour was heard without,
which, to the first apprehensions of the company, seemed to be Meg, in all her terrors, come
to anticipate the proposed invasion. Upon enquiry, however, it proved to be her gossip, Trotting
Nelly, or Nelly Trotter, in the act of forcing her way up stairs, against the united strength
of the whole household of the hotel, to reclaim Luckie Dods's picture, as she called it. This
made the connoisseur's treasure tremble in his pocket, who, thrusting a half-crown into Toby's
hand, exhorted him to give it her, and try his influence in keeping her back. Toby, who knew
Nelly's nature, put the half-crown into his own pocket, and snatched up a gill-stoup of whisky
from the sideboard. Thus armed, he boldly confronted the virago, and interposing a remora,
which was able to check poor Nelly's course in her most determined moods, not only succeeded
in averting the immediate storm which approached the company in general, and Mr. Winterblossom
in particular, but brought the guests the satisfactory information, that Trotting Nelly had
agreed, after she had slept out her nap in the barn, to convey their commands to the Unknown
of Cleikum of Aultoun.

Mr. Winterblossom, therefore, having authenticated his proceedings, by inserting in the Minutes
of the Committee, the authority which he had received, wrote his card in the best style of
diplomacy, and sealed it with the seal of the Spa, which bore something like a nymph, seated
beside what was designed to represent an urn.

The rival factions, however, did not trust entirely to this official invitation. Lady Penelope
was of opinion that they should find some way of letting the stranger--a man of talent unquestionably--understand
that there were in the society to which he was invited, spirits of a more select sort, who
felt worthy to intrude themselves on his solitude.

Accordingly, her ladyship imposed upon the elegant Mr. Chatterly the task of expressing the
desire of the company to see the unknown artist, in a neat occasional copy of verses. The poor
gentleman's muse, however, proved unpropitious; for he was able to proceed no farther than
two lines in half an hour, which, coupled with its variations, we insert from the blotted manuscript,
as Dr. Johnson has printed the alterations in Pope's version of the Iliad:

    1. Maids. 2. Dames. unity joining.
    The [nymphs] of St. Ronan's [in purpose combining]

    1. Swain. 2. Man.
    To the [youth] who is great both in verse and designing,
    ......... dining.

The eloquence of a prose billet was necessarily resorted to in the absence of the heavenly
muse, and the said billet was secretly intrusted to the care of Trotting Nelly. The same trusty
emissary, when refreshed by her nap among the pease-straw, and about to harness her cart for
her return to the seacoast, (in the course of which she was to pass the Aultoun,) received
another card, written, as he had threatened, by Sir Bingo Binks himself, who had given himself
this trouble to secure the settlement of the bet; conjecturing that a man with a fashionable
exterior, who could throw twelve yards of line at a cast with such precision, might consider
the invitation of Winterblossom as that of an old twaddler, and care as little for the good
graces of an affected blue-stocking and her côterie, whose conversation, in Sir Bingo's mind,
relished of nothing but of weak tea and bread and butter. Thus the happy Mr. Francis Tyrrel
received, considerably to his surprise, no less than three invitations at once from the Well
of St. Ronan's.

FOOTNOTE:

[I-13] The one or the other was equally in votis to Ascanius,--

    "Optat aprum, aut fulvum descendere monte leonem."

Modern Trojans make a great distinction betwixt these two objects of chase.

CHAPTER V.

EPISTOLARY ELOQUENCE.

    But how can I answer, since first I must read thee?

PRIOR.

Desirous of authenticating our more important facts, by as many original documents as possible,
we have, after much research, enabled ourselves to present the reader with the following accurate
transcripts of the notes intrusted to the care of Trotting Nelly. The first ran thus:

    "Mr. Winterblossom [of Silverhed] has the commands of Lady Penelope
    Penfeather, Sir Bingo and Lady Binks, Mr. and Miss Mowbray [of St.
    Ronan's], and the rest of the company at the Hotel and Tontine Inn
    of St. Ronan's Well, to express their hope that the gentleman lodged
    at the Cleikum Inn, Old Town of St. Ronan's, will favour them with
    his company at the Ordinary, as early and as often as may suit his
    convenience. The COMPANY think it necessary to send this intimation,
    because, according to the RULES of the place, the Ordinary can only
    be attended by such gentlemen and ladies as lodge at St. Ronan's
    Well; but they are happy to make a distinction in favour of a
    gentleman so distinguished for success in the fine arts as Mr. ----
    ----, residing at Cleikum. If Mr. ---- ---- should be inclined, upon
    becoming further acquainted with the COMPANY and RULES of the
    Place, to remove his residence to the Well, Mr. Winterblossom,
    though he would not be understood to commit himself by a positive
    assurance to that effect, is inclined to hope that an arrangement
    might be made, notwithstanding the extreme crowd of the season, to
    accommodate Mr. ---- ---- at the lodging-house, called
    Lilliput-Hall. It will much conduce to facilitate this negotiation,
    if Mr. ---- ---- would have the goodness to send an exact note of
    his stature, as Captain Rannletree seems disposed to resign the
    folding-bed at Lilliput-Hall, on account of his finding it rather
    deficient in length. Mr. Winterblossom begs farther to assure Mr.
    ---- ---- of the esteem in which he holds his genius, and of his
    high personal consideration.

    "For ---- ----, Esquire,
    Cleikum Inn, Old Town of St. Ronan's.

    "The Public Rooms,
    Hotel and Tontine, St. Ronan's Well,
    &c. &c. &c."

The above card was written (we love to be precise in matters concerning orthography) in a neat,
round, clerk-like hand, which, like Mr. Winterblossom's character, in many particulars was
most accurate and commonplace, though betraying an affectation both of flourish and of facility.

The next billet was a contrast to the diplomatic gravity and accuracy of Mr. Winterblossom's
official communication, and ran thus, the young divine's academic jests and classical flowers
of eloquence being mingled with some wild flowers from the teeming fancy of Lady Penelope.

    "A choir of Dryads and Naiads, assembled at the healing spring of
    St. Ronan's, have learned with surprise that a youth, gifted by
    Apollo, when the Deity was prodigal, with two of his most esteemed
    endowments, wanders at will among their domains, frequenting grove
    and river, without once dreaming of paying homage to its tutelary
    deities. He is, therefore, summoned to their presence, and prompt
    obedience will insure him forgiveness; but in case of contumacy, let
    him beware how he again essays either the lyre or the pallet.

    "Postscript. The adorable Penelope, long enrolled among the
    Goddesses for her beauty and virtues, gives Nectar and Ambrosia,
    which mortals call tea and cake, at the Public Rooms, near the
    Sacred Spring, on Thursday evening, at eight o'clock, when the Muses
    never fail to attend. The stranger's presence is requested to
    participate in the delights of the evening.

    "Second Postscript. A shepherd, ambitiously aiming at more
    accommodation than his narrow cot affords, leaves it in a day or
    two.

        'Assuredly the thing is to be hired.'

            As You Like It.

    "Postscript third. Our Iris, whom mortals know as Trotting Nelly
    in her tartan cloak, will bring us the stranger's answer to our
    celestial summons."

This letter was written in a delicate Italian hand, garnished with fine hair-strokes and dashes,
which were sometimes so dexterously thrown off as to represent lyres, pallets, vases, and other
appropriate decorations, suited to the tenor of the contents.

The third epistle was a complete contrast to the other two. It was written in a coarse, irregular,
schoolboy half-text, which, however, seemed to have cost the writer as much pains as if it
had been a specimen of the most exquisite caligraphy. And these were the contents:--

    "SUR--Jack Moobray has betted with me that the samon you killed on
    Saturday last weyd ni to eiteen pounds,--I say nyer sixteen.--So you
    being a spurtsman, 'tis refer'd.--So hope you will come or send
    me't; do not doubt you will be on honour. The bet is a dozen of
    claret, to be drank at the hotel by our own sett, on Monday next;
    and we beg you will make one; and Moobray hopes you will come
    down.--Being, sir, your most humbel servant,--Bingo Binks Baronet,
    and of Block-hall.

    "Postscript. Have sent some loops of Indian gout, also some black
    hakkels of my groom's dressing; hope they will prove killing, as
    suiting river and season."

No answer was received to any of these invitations for more than three days; which, while it
secretly rather added to than diminished the curiosity of the Wellers concerning the Unknown,
occasioned much railing in public against him, as ill-mannered and rude.

Meantime, Francis Tyrrel, to his great surprise, began to find, like the philosophers, that
he was never less alone than when alone. In the most silent and sequestered walks, to which
the present state of his mind induced him to betake himself, he was sure to find some strollers
from the Well, to whom he had become the object of so much solicitous interest. Quite innocent
of the knowledge that he himself possessed the attraction which occasioned his meeting them
so frequently, he began to doubt whether the Lady Penelope and her maidens--Mr. Winterblossom
and his grey pony--the parson and his short black coat and raven-grey pantaloons--were not
either actually polygraphic copies of the same individuals, or possessed of a celerity of motion
resembling omnipresence and ubiquity; for nowhere could he go without meeting them, and that
oftener than once a-day, in the course of his walks. Sometimes the presence of the sweet Lycoris
was intimated by the sweet prattle in an adjacent shade; sometimes, when Tyrrel thought himself
most solitary, the parson's flute was heard snoring forth Gramachree Molly; and if he betook
himself to the river, he was pretty sure to find his sport watched by Sir Bingo or some of
his friends.

The efforts which Tyrrel made to escape from this persecution, and the impatience of it which
his manner indicated, procured him, among the Wellers, the name of the Misanthrope; and, once
distinguished as an object of curiosity, he was the person most attended to, who could at the
ordinary of the day give the most accurate account of where the Misanthrope had been, and how
occupied in the course of the morning. And so far was Tyrrel's shyness from diminishing the
desire of the Wellers for his society, that the latter feeling increased with the difficulty
of gratification,--as the angler feels the most peculiar interest when throwing his fly for
the most cunning and considerate trout in the pool.

In short, such was the interest which the excited imaginations of the company took in the Misanthrope,
that, notwithstanding the unamiable qualities which the word expresses, there was only one
of the society who did not desire to see the specimen at their rooms, for the purpose of examining
him closely and at leisure; and the ladies were particularly desirous to enquire whether he
was actually a Misanthrope? Whether he had been always a Misanthrope? What had induced him
to become a Misanthrope? And whether there were no means of inducing him to cease to be a Misanthrope?

One individual only, as we have said, neither desired to see nor hear more of the supposed
Timon of Cleikum, and that was Mr. Mowbray of St. Ronan's. Through the medium of that venerable
character John Pirner, professed weaver and practical black-fisher in the Aultoun of St. Ronan's,
who usually attended Tyrrel, to show him the casts of the river, carry his bag, and so forth,
the Squire had ascertained that the judgment of Sir Bingo regarding the disputed weight of
the fish was more correct than his own. This inferred an immediate loss of honour, besides
the payment of a heavy bill. And the consequences might be yet more serious; nothing short
of the emancipation of Sir Bingo, who had hitherto been Mowbray's convenient shadow and adherent,
but who, if triumphant, confiding in his superiority of judgment upon so important a point,
might either cut him altogether, or expect that, in future, the Squire, who had long seemed
the planet of their set, should be content to roll around himself, Sir Bingo, in the capacity
of a satellite.

The Squire, therefore, devoutly hoped that Tyrrel's restive disposition might continue, to
prevent the decision of the bet, while, at the same time, he nourished a very reasonable degree
of dislike to that stranger, who had been the indirect occasion of the unpleasant predicament
in which he found himself, by not catching a salmon weighing a pound heavier. He, therefore,
openly censured the meanness of those who proposed taking further notice of Tyrrel, and referred
to the unanswered letters, as a piece of impertinence which announced him to be no gentleman.

But though appearances were against him, and though he was in truth naturally inclined to solitude,
and averse to the affectation and bustle of such a society, that part of Tyrrel's behaviour
which indicated ill-breeding was easily accounted for, by his never having received the letters
which required an answer. Trotting Nelly, whether unwilling to face her gossip, Meg Dods, without
bringing back the drawing, or whether oblivious through the influence of the double dram with
which she had been indulged at the Well, jumbled off with her cart to her beloved village of
Scate-raw, from which she transmitted the letters by the first bare-legged gillie who travelled
towards Aultoun of St. Ronan's; so that at last, but after a long delay, they reached the Cleikum
Inn and the hands of Mr. Tyrrel.

The arrival of these documents explained some part of the oddity of behaviour which had surprised
him in his neighbours of the Well; and as he saw they had got somehow an idea of his being
a lion extraordinary, and was sensible that such is a character equally ridiculous, and difficult
to support, he hastened to write to Mr. Winterblossom a card in the style of ordinary mortals.
In this he stated the delay occasioned by miscarriage of the letter, and his regret on that
account; expressed his intention of dining with the company at the Well on the succeeding day,
while he regretted that other circumstances, as well as the state of his health and spirits,
would permit him this honour very infrequently during his stay in the country, and begged no
trouble might be taken about his accommodation at the Well, as he was perfectly satisfied with
his present residence. A separate note to Sir Bingo, said he was happy he could verify the
weight of the fish, which he had noted in his diary; ("D--n the fellow, does he keep a diary?"
said the Baronet,) and though the result could only be particularly agreeable to one party,
he should wish both winner and loser mirth with their wine;--he was sorry he was unable to
promise himself the pleasure of participating in either. Enclosed was a signed note of the
weight of the fish. Armed with this, Sir Bingo claimed his wine--triumphed in his judgment--swore
louder and more articulately than ever he was known to utter any previous sounds, that this
Tyrrel was a devilish honest fellow, and he trusted to be better acquainted with him; while
the crestfallen Squire, privately cursing the stranger by all his gods, had no mode of silencing
his companion but by allowing his loss, and fixing a day for discussing the bet.

In the public rooms the company examined even microscopically the response of the stranger
to Mr. Winterblossom, straining their ingenuity to discover, in the most ordinary expressions,
a deeper and esoteric meaning, expressive of something mysterious, and not meant to meet the
eye. Mr. Meiklewham, the writer, dwelt on the word circumstances, which he read with peculiar
emphasis.

"Ah, poor lad!" he concluded, "I doubt he sits cheaper at Meg Dorts's chimney-corner than he
could do with the present company."

Doctor Quackleben, in the manner of a clergyman selecting a word from his text, as that which
is to be particularly insisted upon, repeated in an under tone, the words, "State of health?--umph--state
of health?--Nothing acute--no one has been sent for--must be chronic--tending to gout, perhaps.--Or
his shyness to society--light wild eye--irregular step--starting when met suddenly by a stranger,
and turning abruptly and angrily away--Pray, Mr. Winterblossom, let me have an order to look
over the file of newspapers--it's very troublesome that restriction about consulting them."

"You know it is a necessary one, Doctor," said the president; "because so few of the good company
read any thing else, that the old newspapers would have been worn to pieces long since."

"Well, well, let me have the order," said the Doctor; "I remember something of a gentleman
run away from his friends--I must look at the description.--I believe I have a strait-jacket
somewhere about the Dispensary."

While this suggestion appalled the male part of the company, who did not much relish the approaching
dinner in company with a gentleman whose situation seemed so precarious, some of the younger
Misses whispered to each other--"Ah, poor fellow!--and if it be as the Doctor supposes, my
lady, who knows what the cause of his illness may have been?--His spirits he complains of--ah,
poor man!"

And thus, by the ingenious commentaries of the company at the Well, on as plain a note as ever
covered the eighth part of a sheet of foolscap, the writer was deprived of his property, his
reason, and his heart, "all or either, or one or other of them," as is briefly and distinctly
expressed in the law phrase.

In short, so much was said pro and con, so many ideas started and theories maintained, concerning
the disposition and character of the Misanthrope, that, when the company assembled at the usual
time, before proceeding to dinner, they doubted, as it seemed, whether the expected addition
to their society was to enter the room on his hands or his feet; and when "Mr. Tyrrel" was
announced by Toby, at the top of his voice, the gentleman who entered the room had so very
little to distinguish him from others, that there was a momentary disappointment. The ladies,
in particular, began to doubt whether the compound of talent, misanthropy, madness, and mental
sensibility, which they had pictured to themselves, actually was the same with the genteel,
and even fashionable-looking man whom they saw before them; who, though in a morning-dress,
which the distance of his residence, and the freedom of the place, made excusable, had, even
in the minute points of his exterior, none of the negligence, or wildness, which might be supposed
to attach to the vestments of a misanthropic recluse, whether sane or insane. As he paid his
compliments round the circle, the scales seemed to fall from the eyes of those he spoke to;
and they saw with surprise, that the exaggerations had existed entirely in their own preconceptions,
and that whatever the fortunes, or rank in life, of Mr. Tyrrel might be, his manners, without
being showy, were gentlemanlike and pleasing. He returned his thanks to Mr. Winterblossom in
a manner which made that gentleman recall his best breeding to answer the stranger's address
in kind. He then escaped from the awkwardness of remaining the sole object of attention, by
gliding gradually among the company,--not like an owl, which seeks to hide itself in a thicket,
or an awkward and retired man, shrinking from the society into which he is compelled, but with
the air of one who could maintain with ease his part in a higher circle. His address to Lady
Penelope was adapted to the romantic tone of Mr. Chatterly's epistle, to which it was necessary
to allude. He was afraid, he said, he must complain to Juno of the neglect of Iris, for her
irregularity in delivery of a certain ethereal command, which he had not dared to answer otherwise
than by mute obedience--unless, indeed, as the import of the letter seemed to infer, the invitation
was designed for some more gifted individual than he to whom chance had assigned it.

Lady Penelope by her lips, and many of the young ladies with their eyes, assured him there
was no mistake in the matter; that he was really the gifted person whom the nymphs had summoned
to their presence, and that they were well acquainted with his talents as a poet and a painter.
Tyrrel disclaimed, with earnestness and gravity, the charge of poetry, and professed, that,
far from attempting the art itself, he "read with reluctance all but the productions of the
very first-rate poets, and some of these--he was almost afraid to say--he should have liked
better in humble prose."

"You have now only to disown your skill as an artist," said Lady Penelope, "and we must consider
Mr. Tyrrel as the falsest and most deceitful of his sex, who has a mind to deprive us of the
opportunity of benefiting by the productions of his unparalleled endowments. I assure you I
shall put my young friends on their guard. Such dissimulation cannot be without its object."

"And I," said Mr. Winterblossom, "can produce a piece of real evidence against the culprit."

So saying, he unrolled the sketch which he had filched from Trotting Nelly, and which he had
pared and pasted, (arts in which he was eminent,) so as to take out its creases, repair its
breaches, and vamp it as well as my old friend Mrs. Weir could have repaired the damages of
time on a folio Shakspeare.

"The vara corpus delicti," said the writer, grinning and rubbing his hands.

"If you are so good as to call such scratches drawings," said Tyrrel, "I must stand so far
confessed. I used to do them for my own amusement; but since my landlady, Mrs. Dods, has of
late discovered that I gain my livelihood by them, why should I disown it?"

This avowal, made without the least appearance either of shame or retenue, seemed to have a
striking effect on the whole society. The president's trembling hand stole the sketch back
to the portfolio, afraid doubtless it might be claimed in form, or else compensation expected
by the artist. Lady Penelope was disconcerted, like an awkward horse when it changes the leading
foot in galloping. She had to recede from the respectful and easy footing on which he had contrived
to place himself, to one which might express patronage on her own part, and dependence on Tyrrel's;
and this could not be done in a moment.

The Man of Law murmured, "Circumstances--circumstances--I thought so!"

Sir Bingo whispered to his friend the Squire, "Run out--blown up--off the course--pity--d----d
pretty fellow he has been!"

"A raff from the beginning!" whispered Mowbray.--"I never thought him any thing else."

"I'll hold ye a poney of that, my dear, and I'll ask him."

"Done, for a poney, provided you ask him in ten minutes," said the Squire; "but you dare not,
Bingie--he has a d----d cross game look, with all that civil chaff of his."

"Done," said Sir Bingo, but in a less confident tone than before, and with a determination
to proceed with some caution in the matter.--"I have got a rouleau above, and Winterblossom
shall hold stakes."

"I have no rouleau," said the Squire; "but I'll fly a cheque on Meiklewham."

"See it be better than your last," said Sir Bingo, "for I won't be skylarked again. Jack, my
boy, you are had."

"Not till the bet's won; and I shall see yon walking dandy break your head, Bingie, before
that," answered Mowbray. "Best speak to the Captain before hand--it is a hellish scrape you
are running into--I'll let you off yet, Bingie, for a guinea forfeit.--See, I am just going
to start the tattler."

"Start, and be d----d!" said Sir Bingo. "You are gotten, I assure you o' that, Jack." And with
a bow and a shuffle, he went up and introduced himself to the stranger as Sir Bingo Binks.

"Had--honour--write--sir," were the only sounds which his throat, or rather his cravat, seemed
to send forth.

"Confound the booby!" thought Mowbray; "he will get out of leading strings, if he goes on at
this rate; and doubly confounded be this cursed tramper, who, the Lord knows why, has come
hither from the Lord knows where, to drive the pigs through my game."

In the meantime, while his friend stood with his stop-watch in his hand, with a visage lengthened
under the influence of these reflections, Sir Bingo, with an instinctive tact, which self-preservation
seemed to dictate to a brain neither the most delicate nor subtle in the world, premised his
enquiry by some general remark on fishing and field-sports. With all these, he found Tyrrel
more than passably acquainted. Of fishing and shooting, particularly, he spoke with something
like enthusiasm; so that Sir Bingo began to hold him in considerable respect, and to assure
himself that he could not be, or at least could not originally have been bred, the itinerant
artist which he now gave himself out--and this, with the fast lapse of the time, induced him
thus to address Tyrrel.--"I say, Mr. Tyrrel--why, you have been one of us--I say"----

"If you mean a sportsman, Sir Bingo--I have been, and am a pretty keen one still," replied Tyrrel.

"Why, then, you did not always do them sort of things?"

"What sort of things do you mean, Sir Bingo?" said Tyrrel. "I have not the pleasure of understanding
you."

"Why, I mean them sketches," said Sir Bingo. "I'll give you a handsome order for them, if you
will tell me. I will, on my honour."

"Does it concern you particularly, Sir Bingo, to know any thing of my affairs?" said Tyrrel.

"No--certainly--not immediately," answered Sir Bingo, with some hesitation, for he liked not
the dry tone in which Tyrrel's answers were returned, half so well as a bumper of dry sherry;
"only I said you were a d----d gnostic fellow, and I laid a bet you have not been always professional--that's
all."

Mr. Tyrrel replied, "A bet with Mr. Mowbray, I suppose?"

"Yes, with Jack," replied the Baronet--"you have hit it--I hope I have done him?"

Tyrrel bent his brows, and looked first at Mr. Mowbray, then at the Baronet, and, after a moment's
thought, addressed the latter.--"Sir Bingo Binks, you are a gentleman of elegant enquiry and
acute judgment.--You are perfectly right--I was not bred to the profession of an artist, nor
did I practise it formerly, whatever I may do now; and so that question is answered."

"And Jack is diddled," said the Baronet, smiting his thigh in triumph, and turning towards
the Squire and the stake-holder, with a smile of exultation.

"Stop a single moment, Sir Bingo," said Tyrrel; "take one word with you. I have a great respect
for bets,--it is part of an Englishman's character to bet on what he thinks fit, and to prosecute
his enquiries over hedge and ditch, as if he were steeple-hunting. But as I have satisfied
you on the subject of two bets, that is sufficient compliance with the custom of the country;
and therefore I request, Sir Bingo, you will not make me or my affairs the subject of any more
wagers."

"I'll be d----d if I do," was the internal resolution of Sir Bingo. Aloud he muttered some
apologies, and was heartily glad that the dinner-bell, sounding at the moment, afforded him
an apology for shuffling off in a different direction.

CHAPTER VI.

TABLE-TALK.

    And, sir, if these accounts be true,
    The Dutch have mighty things in view;
    The Austrians--I admire French beans,
    Dear ma'am, above all other greens.

       *       *       *       *       *

    And all as lively and as brisk
    As--Ma'am, d'ye choose a game at whisk?

Table-Talk.

When they were about to leave the room, Lady Penelope assumed Tyrrel's arm with a sweet smile
of condescension, meant to make the honoured party understand in its full extent the favour
conferred. But the unreasonable artist, far from intimating the least confusion at an attention
so little to be expected, seemed to consider the distinction as one which was naturally paid
to the greatest stranger present; and when he placed Lady Penelope at the head of the table,
by Mr. Winterblossom the president, and took a chair for himself betwixt her ladyship and Lady
Binks, the provoking wretch appeared no more sensible of being exalted above his proper rank
in society, than if he had been sitting at the bottom of the table by honest Mrs. Blower from
the Bow-head, who had come to the Well to carry off the dregs of the Inflienzie, which she
scorned to term a surfeit.

Now this indifference puzzled Lady Penelope's game extremely, and irritated her desire to get
at the bottom of Tyrrel's mystery, if there was one, and secure him to her own party. If you
were ever at a watering-place, reader, you know that while the guests do not always pay the
most polite attention to unmarked individuals, the appearance of a stray lion makes an interest
as strong as it is reasonable, and the Amazonian chiefs of each coterie, like the hunters of
Buenos-Ayres, prepare their lasso, and manoeuvre to the best advantage they can, each hoping
to noose the unsuspicious monster, and lead him captive to her own menagerie. A few words concerning
Lady Penelope Penfeather will explain why she practised this sport with even more than common zeal.

She was the daughter of an earl, possessed a showy person, and features which might be called
handsome in youth, though now rather too much prononcés to render the term proper. The nose
was become sharper; the cheeks had lost the roundness of youth; and as, during fifteen years
that she had reigned a beauty and a ruling toast, the right man had not spoken, or, at least,
had not spoken at the right time, her ladyship, now rendered sufficiently independent by the
inheritance of an old relation, spoke in praise of friendship, began to dislike the town in
summer, and to "babble of green fields."

About the time Lady Penelope thus changed the tenor of her life, she was fortunate enough,
with Dr. Quackleben's assistance, to find out the virtues of St Ronan's spring; and having
contributed her share to establish the urbs in rure, which had risen around it, she sat herself
down as leader of the fashions in the little province which she had in a great measure both
discovered and colonized. She was, therefore, justly desirous to compel homage and tribute
from all who should approach the territory.

In other respects, Lady Penelope pretty much resembled the numerous class she belonged to.
She was at bottom a well-principled woman, but too thoughtless to let her principles control
her humour, therefore not scrupulously nice in her society. She was good-natured, but capricious
and whimsical, and willing enough to be kind or generous, if it neither thwarted her humour,
nor cost her much trouble; would have chaperoned a young friend any where, and moved the world
for subscription tickets; but never troubled herself how much her giddy charge flirted, or
with whom; so that, with a numerous class of Misses, her ladyship was the most delightful creature
in the world. Then Lady Penelope had lived so much in society, knew so exactly when to speak,
and how to escape from an embarrassing discussion by professing ignorance, while she looked
intelligence, that she was not generally discovered to be a fool, unless when she set up for
being remarkably clever. This happened more frequently of late, when, perhaps, as she could
not but observe that the repairs of the toilet became more necessary, she might suppose that
new lights, according to the poet, were streaming on her mind through the chinks that Time
was making. Many of her friends, however, thought that Lady Penelope would have better consulted
her genius by remaining in mediocrity, as a fashionable and well-bred woman, than by parading
her new-founded pretensions to taste and patronage; but such was not her own opinion, and doubtless,
her ladyship was the best judge.

On the other side of Tyrrel sat Lady Binks, lately the beautiful Miss Bonnyrigg, who, during
the last season, had made the company at the Well alternately admire, smile, and stare, by
dancing the highest Highland fling, riding the wildest pony, laughing the loudest laugh at
the broadest joke, and wearing the briefest petticoat of any nymph of St. Ronan's. Few knew
that this wild, hoydenish, half-mad humour, was only superinduced over her real character,
for the purpose of--getting well married. She had fixed her eyes on Sir Bingo, and was aware
of his maxim, that to catch him, "a girl must be," in his own phrase, "bang up to every thing;"
and that he would choose a wife for the neck-or-nothing qualities which recommend a good hunter.
She made out her catch-match, and she was miserable. Her wild good-humour was entirely an assumed
part of her character, which was passionate, ambitious, and thoughtful. Delicacy she had none--she
knew Sir Bingo was a brute and a fool, even while she was hunting him down; but she had so
far mistaken her own feelings, as not to have expected that when she became bone of his bone,
she should feel so much shame and anger when she saw his folly expose him to be laughed at
and plundered, or so disgusted when his brutality became intimately connected with herself.
It is true, he was on the whole rather an innocent monster; and between bitting and bridling,
coaxing and humouring, might have been made to pad on well enough. But an unhappy boggling
which had taken place previous to the declaration of their private marriage, had so exasperated
her spirits against her helpmate, that modes of conciliation were the last she was likely to
adopt. Not only had the assistance of the Scottish Themis, so propitiously indulgent to the
foibles of the fair, been resorted to on the occasion, but even Mars seemed ready to enter
upon the tapis, if Hymen had not intervened. There was, de par le monde, a certain brother
of the lady--an officer--and, as it happened, on leave of absence,--who alighted from a hack-chaise
at the Fox Hotel, at eleven o'clock at night, holding in his hand a slip of well-dried oak,
accompanied by another gentleman, who, like himself, wore a military travelling-cap and a black
stock; out of the said chaise, as was reported by the trusty Toby, was handed a small reise-sac,
an Andrew Ferrara, and a neat mahogany box, eighteen inches long, three deep, and some six
broad. Next morning a solemn palaver (as the natives of Madagascar call their national convention)
was held at an unusual hour, at which Captain MacTurk and Mr. Mowbray assisted; and the upshot
was, that at breakfast the company were made happy by the information, that Sir Bingo had been
for some weeks the happy bridegroom of their general favourite; which union, concealed for
family reasons, he was now at liberty to acknowledge, and to fly with the wings of love to
bring his sorrowing turtle from the shades to which she had retired, till the obstacles to
their mutual happiness could be removed. Now, though all this sounded very smoothly, that gall-less
turtle, Lady Binks, could never think of the tenor of the proceedings without the deepest feelings
of resentment and contempt for the principal actor, Sir Bingo.

Besides all these unpleasant circumstances, Sir Bingo's family had refused to countenance her
wish that he should bring her to his own seat; and hence a new shock to her pride, and new
matter of contempt against poor Sir Bingo, for being ashamed and afraid to face down the opposition
of his kins-folk, for whose displeasure, though never attending to any good advice from them,
he retained a childish awe.

The manners of the young lady were no less changed than was her temper; and, from being much
too careless and free, were become reserved, sullen, and haughty. A consciousness that many
scrupled to hold intercourse with her in society, rendered her disagreeably tenacious of her
rank, and jealous of every thing that appeared like neglect. She had constituted herself mistress
of Sir Bingo's purse; and, unrestrained in the expenses of dress and equipage, chose, contrary
to her maiden practice, to be rather rich and splendid than gay, and to command that attention
by magnificence, which she no longer deigned to solicit by rendering herself either agreeable
or entertaining. One secret source of her misery was, the necessity of showing deference to
Lady Penelope Penfeather, whose understanding she despised, and whose pretensions to consequence,
to patronage, and to literature, she had acuteness enough to see through, and to contemn; and
this dislike was the more grievous, that she felt she depended a good deal on Lady Penelope's
countenance for the situation she was able to maintain even among the not very select society
of St. Ronan's Well; and that, neglected by her, she must have dropped lower in the scale even
there. Neither was Lady Penelope's kindness to Lady Binks extremely cordial. She partook in
the ancient and ordinary dislike of single nymphs of a certain age, to those who made splendid
alliances under their very eye--and she more than suspected the secret disaffection of the
lady. But the name sounded well; and the style in which Lady Binks lived was a credit to the
place. So they satisfied their mutual dislike with saying a few sharp things to each other
occasionally, but all under the mask of civility.

Such was Lady Binks; and yet, being such, her dress, and her equipage, and carriages, were
the envy of half the Misses at the Well, who, while she sat disfiguring with sullenness her
very lovely face, (for it was as beautiful as her shape was exquisite,) only thought she was
proud of having carried her point, and felt herself, with her large fortune and diamond bandeau,
no fit company for the rest of the party. They gave way, therefore, with meekness to her domineering
temper, though it was not the less tyrannical, that in her maiden state of hoyden-hood, she
had been to some of them an object of slight and of censure; and Lady Binks had not forgotten
the offences offered to Miss Bonnyrigg. But the fair sisterhood submitted to her retaliations,
as lieutenants endure the bullying of a rude and boisterous captain of the sea, with the secret
determination to pay it home to their underlings, when they shall become captains themselves.

In this state of importance, yet of penance, Lady Binks occupied her place at the dinner-table,
alternately disconcerted by some stupid speech of her lord and master, and by some slight sarcasm
from Lady Penelope, to which she longed to reply, but dared not.

She looked from time to time at her neighbour Frank Tyrrel, but without addressing him, and
accepted in silence the usual civilities which he proffered to her. She had remarked keenly
his interview with Sir Bingo, and knowing by experience the manner in which her honoured lord
was wont to retreat from a dispute in which he was unsuccessful, as well as his genius for
getting into such perplexities, she had little doubt that he had sustained from the stranger
some new indignity; whom, therefore, she regarded with a mixture of feeling, scarce knowing
whether to be pleased with him for having given pain to him whom she hated, or angry with him
for having affronted one in whose degradation her own was necessarily involved. There might
be other thoughts--on the whole, she regarded him with much though with mute attention. He
paid her but little in return, being almost entirely occupied in replying to the questions
of the engrossing Lady Penelope Penfeather.

Receiving polite though rather evasive answers to her enquiries concerning his late avocations,
her ladyship could only learn that Tyrrel had been travelling in several remote parts of Europe,
and even of Asia. Baffled, but not repulsed, the lady continued her courtesy, by pointing out
to him, as a stranger, several individuals of the company to whom she proposed introducing
him, as persons from whose society he might derive either profit or amusement. In the midst
of this sort of conversation, however, she suddenly stopped short.

"Will you forgive me, Mr. Tyrrel," she said, "if I say I have been watching your thoughts for
some moments, and that I have detected you? All the while that I have been talking of these
good folks, and that you have been making such civil replies, that they might be with great
propriety and utility inserted in the 'Familiar Dialogues, teaching foreigners how to express
themselves in English upon ordinary occasions'--your mind has been entirely fixed upon that
empty chair, which hath remained there opposite betwixt our worthy president and Sir Bingo Binks."

"I own, madam," he answered, "I was a little surprised at seeing such a distinguished seat
unoccupied, while the table is rather crowded."

"O, confess more, sir!--Confess that to a poet a seat unoccupied--the chair of Banquo--has
more charms than if it were filled even as an alderman would fill it.--What if 'the Dark Ladye'[I-14]
should glide in and occupy it?--would you have courage to stand the vision, Mr. Tyrrel?--I
assure you the thing is not impossible."

"What is not impossible, Lady Penelope?" said Tyrrel, somewhat surprised.

"Startled already?--Nay, then, I despair of your enduring the awful interview."

"What interview? who is expected?" said Tyrrel, unable with the utmost exertion to suppress
some signs of curiosity, though he suspected the whole to be merely some mystification of her
ladyship.

"How delighted I am," she said, "that I have found out where you are vulnerable!--Expected--did
I say expected?--no, not expected.

    'She glides, like Night, from land to land,
    She hath strange power of speech.'

--But come, I have you at my mercy, and I will be generous and explain.--We call--that is,
among ourselves, you understand--Miss Clara Mowbray, the sister of that gentleman that sits
next to Miss Parker, the Dark Ladye, and that seat is left for her.--For she was expected--no,
not expected--I forget again!--but it was thought possible she might honour us to-day, when
our feast was so full and piquant.--Her brother is our Lord of the Manor--and so they pay her
that sort of civility to regard her as a visitor--and neither Lady Binks nor I think of objecting--She
is a singular young person, Clara Mowbray--she amuses me very much--I am always rather glad
to see her."

"She is not to come hither to-day," said Tyrrel; "am I so to understand your ladyship?"

"Why, it is past her time--even her time," said Lady Penelope--"dinner was kept back half an
hour, and our poor invalids were famishing, as you may see by the deeds they have done since.--But
Clara is an odd creature, and if she took it into her head to come hither at this moment, hither
she would come--she is very whimsical.--Many people think her handsome--but she looks so like
something from another world, that she makes me always think of Mat Lewis's Spectre Lady."

And she repeated with much cadence,

    "There is a thing--there is a thing,
      I fain would have from thee;
    I fain would have that gay gold ring,
      O warrior, give it me!"

"And then you remember his answer:

    'This ring Lord Brooke from his daughter took,
      And a solemn oath he swore,
    That that ladye my bride should be
      When this crusade was o'er.'

You do figures as well as landscapes, I suppose, Mr. Tyrrel?--You shall make a sketch for me--a
slight thing--for sketches, I think, show the freedom of art better than finished pieces--I
dote on the first coruscations of genius--flashing like lightning from the cloud!--You shall
make a sketch for my boudoir--my dear sulky den at Air Castle, and Clara Mowbray shall sit
for the Ghost Ladye."

"That would be but a poor compliment to your ladyship's friend," replied Tyrrel.

"Friend? We don't get quite that length, though I like Clara very well.--Quite sentimental
cast of face--I think I saw an antique in the Louvre very like her--(I was there in 1800)--quite
an antique countenance--eyes something hollowed--care has dug caves for them, but they are
caves of the most beautiful marble, arched with jet--a straight nose, and absolutely the Grecian
mouth and chin--a profusion of long straight black hair, with the whitest skin you ever saw--as
white as the whitest parchment--and not a shade of colour in her cheek--none whatever--If she
would be naughty, and borrow a prudent touch of complexion, she might be called beautiful.
Even as it is, many think her so, although surely, Mr. Tyrrel, three colours are necessary
to the female face. However, we used to call her the Melpomene of the Spring last season, as
we called Lady Binks--who was not then Lady Binks--our Euphrosyne--did we not, my dear?"

"Did we not what, madam?" said Lady Binks, in a tone something sharper than ought to have belonged
to so beautiful a countenance.

"I am sorry I have started you out of your reverie, my love," answered Lady Penelope. "I was
only assuring Mr. Tyrrel that you were once Euphrosyne, though now so much under the banners
of Il Penseroso."

"I do not know that I have been either one or the other," answered Lady Binks; "one thing I
certainly am not--I am not capable of understanding your ladyship's wit and learning."

"Poor soul," whispered Lady Penelope to Tyrrel; "we know what we are, we know not what we may
be.--And now, Mr. Tyrrel, I have been your sibyl to guide you through this Elysium of ours,
I think, in reward, I deserve a little confidence in return."

"If I had any to bestow, which could be in the slightest degree interesting to your ladyship,"
answered Tyrrel.

"Oh! cruel man--he will not understand me!" exclaimed the lady--"In plain words, then, a peep
into your portfolio--just to see what objects you have rescued from natural decay, and rendered
immortal by the pencil. You do not know--indeed, Mr. Tyrrel, you do not know how I dote upon
your 'serenely silent art,' second to poetry alone--equal--superior perhaps--to music."

"I really have little that could possibly be worth the attention of such a judge as your ladyship,"
answered Tyrrel; "such trifles as your ladyship has seen, I sometimes leave at the foot of
the tree I have been sketching."

"As Orlando left his verses in the Forest of Ardennes?--Oh, the thoughtless prodigality!--Mr.
Winterblossom, do you hear this?--We must follow Mr. Tyrrel in his walks, and glean what he
leaves behind him."

Her ladyship was here disconcerted by some laughter on Sir Bingo's side of the table, which
she chastised by an angry glance, and then proceeded emphatically.

"Mr. Tyrrel--this must not be--this is not the way of the world, my good sir, to which even
genius must stoop its flight. We must consult the engraver--though perhaps you etch as well
as you draw?"

"I should suppose so," said Mr. Winterblossom, edging in a word with difficulty, "from the
freedom of Mr. Tyrrel's touch."

"I will not deny my having spoiled a little copper now and then," said Tyrrel, "since I am
charged with the crime by such good judges; but it has only been by way of experiment."

"Say no more," said the lady; "my darling wish is accomplished!--We have long desired to have
the remarkable and most romantic spots of our little Arcadia here--spots consecrated to friendship,
the fine arts, the loves and the graces, immortalized by the graver's art, faithful to its
charge of fame--you shall labour on this task, Mr. Tyrrel; we will all assist with notes and
illustrations--we will all contribute--only some of us must be permitted to remain anonymous--Fairy
favours, you know, Mr. Tyrrel, must be kept secret--And you shall be allowed the pillage of
the Album--some sweet things there of Mr. Chatterly's--and Mr. Edgeit, a gentleman of your
own profession, I am sure will lend his aid--Dr. Quackleben will contribute some scientific
notices.--And for subscription"----

"Financial--financial--your leddyship, I speak to order!" said the writer, interrupting Lady
Penelope with a tone of impudent familiarity, which was meant doubtless for jocular ease.

"How am I out of order, Mr. Meiklewham?" said her ladyship, drawing herself up.

"I speak to order!--No warrants for money can be extracted before intimation to the Committee
of Management."

"Pray, who mentioned money, Mr. Meiklewham?" said her ladyship.--"That wretched old pettifogger,"
she added in a whisper to Tyrrel, "thinks of nothing else but the filthy pelf."

"Ye spake of subscription, my leddy, whilk is the same thing as money, differing only in respect
of time--the subscription being a contract de futuro, and having a tractus temporis in gremio--And
I have kend mony honest folks in the company at the Well, complain of the subscriptions as
a great abuse, as obliging them either to look unlike other folk, or to gie good lawful coin
for ballants and picture-books, and things they caredna a pinch of snuff for."

Several of the company, at the lower end of the table, assented both by nods and murmurs of
approbation; and the orator was about to proceed, when Tyrrel with difficulty procured a hearing
before the debate went farther, and assured the company that her ladyship's goodness had led
her into an error; that he had no work in hand worthy of their patronage, and, with the deepest
gratitude for Lady Penelope's goodness, had it not in his power to comply with her request.
There was some tittering at her ladyship's expense, who, as the writer slyly observed, had
been something ultronious in her patronage. Without attempting for the moment any rally, (as
indeed the time which had passed since the removal of the dinner scarce permitted an opportunity,)
Lady Penelope gave the signal for the ladies' retreat, and left the gentlemen to the circulation
of the bottle.

FOOTNOTE:

[I-14] Note II.--The Dark Ladye.

CHAPTER VII.

THE TEA-TABLE.

                ----While the cups,
    Which cheer, but not inebriate, wait on each.

COWPER.

It was common at the Well, for the fair guests occasionally to give tea to the company,--such
at least as from their rank and leading in the little society, might be esteemed fit to constitute
themselves patronesses of an evening; and the same lady generally carried the authority she
had acquired into the ball-room, where two fiddles and a bass, at a guinea a night, with a
quantum sufficit of tallow candles, (against the use of which Lady Penelope often mutinied,)
enabled the company--to use the appropriate phrase--"to close the evening on the light fantastic
toe."

On the present occasion, the lion of the hour, Mr. Francis Tyrrel, had so little answered the
high-wrought expectations of Lady Penelope, that she rather regretted having ever given herself
any trouble about him, and particularly that of having manoeuvred herself into the patronage
of the tea-table for the evening, to the great expenditure of souchong and congo. Accordingly,
her ladyship had no sooner summoned her own woman, and her fille de chambre, to make tea, with
her page, footman, and postilion, to hand it about, (in which duty they were assisted by two
richly-laced and thickly-powdered footmen of Lady Binks's, whose liveries put to shame the
more modest garb of Lady Penelope's, and even dimmed the glory of the suppressed coronet upon
the buttons,) than she began to vilipend and depreciate what had been so long the object of
her curiosity.

"This Mr. Tyrrel," she said, in a tone of authoritative decision, "seems after all a very ordinary
sort of person, quite a commonplace man, who, she dared say, had considered his condition,
in going to the old alehouse, much better than they had done for him, when they asked him to
the Public Rooms. He had known his own place better than they did--there was nothing uncommon
in his appearance or conversation--nothing at all frappant--she scarce believed he could even
draw that sketch. Mr. Winterblossom, indeed, made a great deal of it; but then all the world
knew that every scrap of engraving or drawing, which Mr. Winterblossom contrived to make his
own, was, the instant it came into his collection, the finest thing that ever was seen--that
was the way with collectors--their geese were all swans."

"And your ladyship's swan has proved but a goose, my dearest Lady Pen," said Lady Binks.

"My swan, dearest Lady Binks! I really do not know how I have deserved the appropriation."

"Do not be angry, my dear Lady Penelope; I only mean, that for a fortnight and more you have
spoke constantly of this Mr. Tyrrel, and all dinner-time you spoke to him."

The fair company began to collect around, at hearing the word dear so often repeated in the
same brief dialogue, which induced them to expect sport, and, like the vulgar on a similar
occasion, to form a ring for the expected combatants.

"He sat betwixt us, Lady Binks," answered Lady Penelope, with dignity. "You had your usual
headache, you know, and, for the credit of the company, I spoke for one."

"For two, if your ladyship pleases," replied Lady Binks. "I mean," she added, softening the
expression, "for yourself and me."

"I am sorry," said Lady Penelope, "I should have spoken for one who can speak so smartly for
herself, as my dear Lady Binks--I did not, by any means, desire to engross the conversation--I
repeat it, there is a mistake about this man."

"I think there is," said Lady Binks, in a tone which implied something more than mere assent
to Lady Penelope's proposition.

"I doubt if he is an artist at all," said the Lady Penelope; "or if he is, he must be doing
things for some Magazine, or Encyclopedia, or some such matter."

"I doubt, too, if he be a professional artist," said Lady Binks. "If so, he is of the very
highest class, for I have seldom seen a better-bred man."

"There are very well-bred artists," said Lady Penelope. "It is the profession of a gentleman."

"Certainly," answered Lady Binks; "but the poorer class have often to struggle with poverty
and dependence. In general society, they are like commercial people in presence of their customers;
and that is a difficult part to sustain. And so you see them of all sorts--shy and reserved,
when they are conscious of merit--petulant and whimsical, by way of showing their independence--intrusive,
in order to appear easy--and sometimes obsequious and fawning, when they chance to be of a
mean spirit. But you seldom see them quite at their ease, and therefore I hold this Mr. Tyrrel
to be either an artist of the first class, raised completely above the necessity and degradation
of patronage, or else to be no professional artist at all."

Lady Penelope looked at Lady Binks with much such a regard as Balaam may have cast upon his
ass, when he discovered the animal's capacity for holding an argument with him. She muttered
to herself--

    "Mon ane parle, et même il parle bien!"

But, declining the altercation which Lady Binks seemed disposed to enter into, she replied,
with good-humour, "Well, dearest Rachel, we will not pull caps about this man--nay, I think
your good opinion of him gives him new value in my eyes. That is always the way with us, my
good friend! We may confess it, when there are none of these conceited male wretches among
us. We will know what he really is--he shall not wear fern-seed, and walk among us invisible
thus--what say you, Maria?"

"Indeed, I say, dear Lady Penelope," answered Miss Digges, whose ready chatter we have already
introduced to the reader, "he is a very handsome man, though his nose is too big, and his mouth
too wide--but his teeth are like pearl--and he has such eyes!--especially when your ladyship
spoke to him. I don't think you looked at his eyes--they are quite deep and dark, and full
of glow, like what you read to us in the letter from that lady, about Robert Burns."

"Upon my word, miss, you come on finely!" said Lady Penelope.--"One had need take care what
they read or talk about before you, I see--Come, Jones, have mercy upon us--put an end to that
symphony of tinkling cups and saucers, and let the first act of the tea-table begin, if you
please."

"Does her leddyship mean the grace?" said honest Mrs. Blower, for the first time admitted into
this worshipful society, and busily employed in arranging an Indian handkerchief, that might
have made a mainsail for one of her husband's smuggling luggers, which she spread carefully
on her knee, to prevent damage to a flowered black silk gown from the repast of tea and cake,
to which she proposed to do due honour--"Does her leddyship mean the grace? I see the minister
is just coming in.--Her leddyship waits till ye say a blessing, an ye please, sir."

Mr. Winterblossom, who toddled after the chaplain, his toe having given him an alert hint to
quit the dining-table, though he saw every feature in the poor woman's face swoln with desire
to procure information concerning the ways and customs of the place, passed on the other side
of the way, regardless of her agony of curiosity.

A moment after, she was relieved by the entrance of Dr. Quackleben, whose maxim being, that
one patient was as well worth attention as another, and who knew by experience, that the honoraria
of a godly wife of the Bow-head were as apt to be forthcoming, (if not more so,) as my Lady
Penelope's, he e'en sat himself quietly down by Mrs. Blower, and proceeded with the utmost
kindness to enquire after her health, and to hope she had not forgotten taking a table-spoonful
of spirits burnt to a residuum, in order to qualify the crudities.

"Indeed, Doctor," said the honest woman, "I loot the brandy burn as lang as I dought look at
the gude creature wasting itsell that gate--and then, when I was fain to put it out for very
thrift, I did take a thimbleful of it, (although it is not the thing I am used to, Dr. Quackleben,)
and I winna say but that it did me good."

"Unquestionably, madam," said the Doctor, "I am no friend to the use of alcohol in general,
but there are particular cases--there are particular cases, Mrs. Blower--My venerated instructor,
one of the greatest men in our profession that ever lived, took a wine-glassful of old rum,
mixed with sugar, every day after his dinner."

"Ay? dear heart, he would be a comfortable doctor that," said Mrs. Blower. "He wad maybe ken
something of my case. Is he leevin' think ye, sir?"

"Dead for many years, madam," said Dr. Quackleben; "and there are but few of his pupils that
can fill his place, I assure ye. If I could be thought an exception, it is only because I was
a favourite. Ah! blessings on the old red cloak of him!--It covered more of the healing science
than the gowns of a whole modern university."

"There is ane, sir," said Mrs. Blower, "that has been muckle recommended about Edinburgh--Macgregor,
I think they ca' him--folk come far and near to see him."[I-15]

"I know whom you mean, ma'am--a clever man--no denying it--a clever man--but there are certain
cases--yours, for example--and I think that of many that come to drink this water--which I
cannot say I think he perfectly understands--hasty--very hasty and rapid. Now I--I give the
disease its own way at first--then watch it, Mrs. Blower--watch the turn of the tide."

"Ay, troth, that's true," responded the widow; "John Blower was aye watching turn of tide,
puir man."

"Then he is a starving doctor, Mrs. Blower--reduces diseases as soldiers do towns--by famine,
not considering that the friendly inhabitants suffer as much as the hostile garrison--ahem!"

Here he gave an important and emphatic cough, and then proceeded.

"I am no friend either to excess or to violent stimulus, Mrs. Blower--but nature must be supported--a
generous diet--cordials judiciously thrown in--not without the advice of a medical man--that
is my opinion, Mrs. Blower, to speak as a friend--others may starve their patients if they
have a mind."

"It wadna do for me, the starving, Dr. Keekerben," said the alarmed relict,--"it wadna do for
me at a'--Just a' I can do to wear through the day with the sma' supports that nature requires--not
a soul to look after me, Doctor, since John Blower was ta'en awa.--Thank ye kindly, sir," (to
the servant who handed the tea,)--"thank ye, my bonny man," (to the page who served the cake)--"Now,
dinna ye think, Doctor," (in a low and confidential voice,) "that her leddyship's tea is rather
of the weakliest--water bewitched, I think--and Mrs. Jones, as they ca' her, has cut the seedcake
very thin?"

"It is the fashion, Mrs. Blower," answered Dr. Quackleben; "and her ladyship's tea is excellent.
But your taste is a little chilled, which is not uncommon at the first use of the waters, so
that you are not sensible of the flavour--we must support the system--reinforce the digestive
powers--give me leave--you are a stranger, Mrs. Blower, and we must take care of you--I have
an elixir which will put that matter to rights in a moment."

So saying, Dr. Quackleben pulled from his pocket a small portable case of medicines--"Catch
me without my tools,"--he said; "here I have the real useful pharmacopoeia--the rest is all
humbug and hard names--this little case, with a fortnight or month, spring and fall, at St.
Ronan's Well, and no one will die till his day come."

Thus boasting, the Doctor drew from his case a large vial or small flask, full of a high-coloured
liquid, of which he mixed three tea-spoonfuls in Mrs. Blower's cup, who, immediately afterwards,
allowed that the flavour was improved beyond all belief, and that it was "vera comfortable
and restorative indeed."

"Will it not do good to my complaints, Doctor?" said Mr. Winterblossom, who had strolled towards
them, and held out his cup to the physician.

"I by no means recommend it, Mr. Winterblossom," said Dr. Quackleben, shutting up his case
with great coolness; "your case is oedematous, and you treat it your own way--you are as good
a physician as I am, and I never interfere with another practitioner's patient."

"Well, Doctor," said Winterblossom, "I must wait till Sir Bingo comes in--he has a hunting-flask
usually about him, which contains as good medicine as yours to the full."

"You will wait for Sir Bingo some time," said the Doctor; "he is a gentleman of sedentary habits--he
has ordered another magnum."

"Sir Bingo is an unco name for a man o' quality, dinna ye think sae, Dr. Cocklehen?" said Mrs.
Blower. "John Blower, when he was a wee bit in the wind's eye, as he ca'd it, puir fallow--used
to sing a sang about a dog they ca'd Bingo, that suld hae belanged to a farmer."

"Our Bingo is but a puppy yet, madam--or if a dog, he is a sad dog," said Mr. Winterblossom,
applauding his own wit, by one of his own inimitable smiles.

"Or a mad dog, rather," said Mr. Chatterly, "for he drinks no water;" and he also smiled gracefully
at the thoughts of having trumped, as it were, the president's pun.

"Twa pleasant men, Doctor," said the widow, "and so is Sir Bungy too, for that matter; but
O! is nae it a pity he should bide sae lang by the bottle? It was puir John Blower's faut too,
that weary tippling; when he wan to the lee-side of a bowl of punch, there was nae raising
him.--But they are taking awa the things, and, Doctor, is it not an awfu' thing that the creature-comforts
should hae been used without grace or thanksgiving?--that Mr. Chitterling, if he really be
a minister, has muckle to answer for, that he neglects his Master's service."

"Why, madam," said the Doctor, "Mr. Chatterly is scarce arrived at the rank of a minister plenipotentiary."

"A minister potentiary--ah, Doctor, I doubt that is some jest of yours," said the widow; "that's
sae like puir John Blower. When I wad hae had him gie up the lovely Peggy, ship and cargo,
(the vessel was named after me, Doctor Kittleben,) to be remembered in the prayers o' the congregation,
he wad say to me, 'they may pray that stand the risk, Peggy Bryce, for I've made insurance.'
He was a merry man, Doctor; but he had the root of the matter in him, for a' his light way
of speaking, as deep as ony skipper that ever loosed anchor from Leith Roads. I hae been a
forsaken creature since his death--O the weary days and nights that I have had!--and the weight
on the spirits--the spirits, Doctor!--though I canna say I hae been easier since I hae been
at the Wall than even now--if I kend what I was awing ye for elickstir, Doctor, for it's done
me muckle heart's good, forby the opening of my mind to you."

"Fie, fie, ma'am," said the Doctor, as the widow pulled out a seal-skin pouch, such as sailors
carry tobacco in, but apparently well stuffed with bank-notes,--"Fie, fie, madam--I am no apothecary--I
have my diploma from Leyden--a regular physician, madam,--the elixir is heartily at your service;
and should you want any advice, no man will be prouder to assist you than your humble servant."

"I am sure I am muckle obliged to your kindness, Dr. Kickalpin," said the widow, folding up
her pouch; "this was puir John Blower's spleuchan,[I-16] as they ca' it--I e'en wear it for
his sake. He was a kind man, and left me comfortable in warld's gudes; but comforts hae their
cumbers,--to be a lone woman is a sair weird, Dr. Kittlepin."

Dr. Quackleben drew his chair a little nearer that of the widow, and entered into a closer
communication with her, in a tone doubtless of more delicate consolation than was fit for the
ears of the company at large.

One of the chief delights of a watering-place is, that every one's affairs seem to be put under
the special surveillance of the whole company, so that, in all probability, the various flirtations,
liaisons, and so forth, which naturally take place in the society, are not only the subject
of amusement to the parties engaged, but also to the lookers on; that is to say, generally
speaking, to the whole community, of which for the time the said parties are members. Lady
Penelope, the presiding goddess of the region, watchful over all her circle, was not long of
observing that the Doctor seemed to be suddenly engaged in close communication with the widow,
and that he had even ventured to take hold of her fair plump hand, with a manner which partook
at once of the gallant suitor, and of the medical adviser.

"For the love of Heaven," said her ladyship, "who can that comely dame be, on whom our excellent
and learned Doctor looks with such uncommon regard?"

"Fat, fair, and forty," said Mr. Winterblossom; "that is all I know of her--a mercantile person."

"A carrack, Sir President," said the chaplain, "richly laden with colonial produce, by name
the Lovely Peggy Bryce--no master--the late John Blower of North Leith having pushed off his
boat for the Stygian Creek, and left the vessel without a hand on board."

"The Doctor," said Lady Penelope, turning her glass towards them, "seems willing to play the
part of pilot."

"I dare say he will be willing to change her name and register," said Mr. Chatterly.

"He can be no less in common requital," said Winterblossom. "She has changed his name six times
in the five minutes that I stood within hearing of them."

"What do you think of the matter, my dear Lady Binks?" said Lady Penelope.

"Madam?" said Lady Binks, starting from a reverie, and answering as one who either had not
heard, or did not understand the question.

"I mean, what think you of what is going on yonder?" It was like lightning. However, Ramiro
instantly recognized the eyes of Casilda, and instead of stopping, the layer terciose straightened
up hastily to the other side.

After missing more than half an hour in the direction of the southeast, without departing from
the river, he saw poke a cross between the ridges. It was the cross in a chapel built on the edge
of the abyss.

He approached, and despite deep trouble, let them fall by the surprise box absorbed a moment informing
it useful sense of his soul.

Opposite him, on the opposite side, extending from Toledo to the west rising, staggering on
the high gray rock roofs, their pale walls, numerous towers. Smooth and rapid escarpment from
the city fell to the bottom of the narrow, old apparently covered crumbly ash, as if the fire of God
had been there, destroying all roots and all the seed.

Ramiro religious thought with horror on the slopes of the eternal
punishment that reprobates have to climb with your feet and hands,
to fall back on the air inflamed and re-climb and fall without forgiveness,
without truce indefinitely.

He sat on a rock.

The river flowed at a terrible depth between rusty rocks and wild beasts. It seemed a River
of guilt and atonement, as it forges the imagination to think about hell. It seemed as though
painful spectra passed in procession down there, skimming the waves
Hanging with dark veils.

Meanwhile, the village took, with the time, desolate whiteness of bones in the wilderness, and
all the city, looking from a distance, through the vibrating shadows, like a city in another world,
a city outside of life and time, as anxious as the mysticism and psalms.

In the highest part, outstanding pieces drenched in melancholy reflection Alcázar twilight. Ramiro
recalled with mysterious inspiration that those walls had hosted one of the greatest kings glorious
history, a monarch of monarchs who ended up throwing the scepter and crown hidden refuge in
the monastery, and, suddenly, the ghost of Emperor Charles V. appeared before him with his
face half hidden by the hood of a habit.

Ah! Sackcloth that the owner of the world ...!

The sun sank behind the hills, and the city took a limp and purple
coloring, which if referred to by transparent amethyst.

Some windows that had flamed a flash went off. Ramiro overtones penetrate the sacred gathering,
sensing a sign, a voice from above. At that moment the bells of the city burst into touch
prayers. The chimes were entering long distance and moving a song which suggested in the litany
of death, and seemed as if the rock that supported the many steeples vibrated at the same time
as the box of an organ. He remembered Ramiro Avila bells, the afternoons of his childhood in the
stately tower and his mother, always weeping, always in mourning
always moody.

He prayed the Hail Mary. Was redeemed, was purified, but his chest felt hungry and sad, like a stream
without water. He wanted to enter the shrine at the foot of the altar
pour their grief deep.

Arose. The soil and rocks ranged around, his body, relieved, went to come off, no doubt, of the
earth.

Suddenly, a fire, a bolt inflamed, coming above, he entered his chest,
immersing for a few seconds in a rich state, enjoyed only with the
soul.

Then everything happened.

He thought then that he had been trasverberado as Mother Teresa of
Jesus and God just down to him in all his power and mercy, to make
testing a sip, just, of the joys that awaited him when his soul, conquering
the world, was delivered Finally, with sovereign passion, solitude
and penance.

A moment later he returned to the city in search of a convent where he changed clothes Knight
by a sackcloth of a hermit.

V

Puce dress and holding roughly with the refrain, over his shoulder, the humble backpacks saddled
him for the trip the Franciscan Sisters of Penance San Juan, funky Ramiro de Toledo, the next
morning, taking over the management of forests noon.

He wore all the hair back, the forehead without frowning, eyes moist.

He walked many days, from sunrise to sunset, sipping on his face in streams and eating the crumbs
which gave the farmers.

More than a compassionate Walker offered to take her on the rump of his horse, but he smiled and
marked in holy dust stronger footprint sandals. He slept in the yard sales or the roadside, where
he took night.

Finally, one morning, after very long trip, came to see from the top
of a hill the white city of Cordoba, bathed in the moist and radiant
blush of dawn.

It was noted from there, passing by a fruit, the convent of the Sisters of Mount Caramel, and
thought that under that roof was near his mother, felt the sobs choked breath.

Without wishing to approach the city and away from the trails, found at last, on the edge of the
mountain, a cave hidden by weeds and shrubs. Was inside a table made of branches of oak without
uncorking, an ink orange root, a stool, a hoe and several pots sunk in the mud. From the top, hung
an old suit gentleman, and besides, like two smoked hams, a pair of boots on the way with spurs.

That
same night, lighting the lamp she had, and going to bed on a pile
of litter to the bottom of the cave, he found himself with the mummified
body of an old hermit, that his hands still clutching rosary beads
dried.

Ramiro dropping hints knees and raised his arms to heaven, thanking God for having placed,
while in his way, the desired shelter and example of that death.

The next day morning, was buried the hermit, and ordered his best
inside the dark hiding place, where he had resolved to spend the rest
of his life.

Soon a sublime pleasure flooded her heart. The prayer continues, the total disregard the world
and, above all, the arduous and ingenious imposed penance, he did
know the ineffable pride of holiness great pride that swelled the
soul infinitely and he rose to sublime flight over the miseries of
man.

Compared to the admirable anchorites of the Thebaid, and was assured that in times to come would
read her story homes and dining halls for the edification of souls.

The nuns of Toledo habíanle put in the bag some books on mysticism.

Driven by those readings, Ramiro was proposed through the three spiritual paths described in treated,
and finally achieve possession of the greatest glory he had sought so far by misleading ways.

But
the flame of the early days could not be maintained, no longer feel those raptures again that
lit up in the crypt of her soul heat lamps that spoke Fray Juan de la Cruz. The night of cold
and darkness fell upon his heart, the gloom and damp of den began to stale, the reading made
him insufferable.

Some afternoons, hoping to breathe free, leaving you to walk through
the mountains until the evening.

The breeze was always delicious and brought from the farms to the
perfume of blossoms softened the will and away any idea of ​​penance.

      Smiles of women, carmine of her lips
    parted, Blinks malicious, appeared before him in the dark pink or
blue in the shade of trees.

      
    

Apathy, laziness invincibility began to overwhelm its members as a magic and spirit until he
spent most of the day lying in bed hermit, busy counting dimples in the rock or water droplets
that fell from the slopes. Lizards, cockroaches, mice and many insects that were previously
unknown, ended up climbing over his body, and he, rather than frighten,
maintained complete immobility, to observe about their every move.

He spent weeks without praying the rosary and without going into the city to hear the Sunday
Mass and call provisions, as was his custom.

One morning he heard a woman's voice a few steps from the cave:

They sing and sing of Roland Oliveros and non of Zurraquín, CA was
great barragán.

Song of Roland or Olivero sings and non of Zurraquín, CA was a great gentleman.

It was a double chorus Medrano, Esquire, never tired of repeating. It seemed the voice Casilda.
Would not it be a deception of the senses?

He got up and looked out a moment. A woman, covered with a green veil, hurry down the hill,
and the song fell and walked away with it gracefully.

Another morning, gathering firewood by the outline, found at the foot
of a tree a sword cover rust.

Took her to his hideout and frotola strongly with wet sand. Was a lordly weapon, several silver
rings girdled the black leather scabbard, the blade had the mark of Hortunas, the garrison was shed
and thin, like a Miranda.

One trivial incident came to tear your laziness.

Since then spend hours sprucing up the sword in the smallest cracks,
and was pleased to bring it to light for sun run a flame over the
sheet, and wield wield it with force, it blow in the wind.

Since she never went out into the woods that carry it, and sometimes,
looking over and Moreover, as if someone might surprise you, bend
the tip of the trunk somewhat trees to remember the terrible lunge
that had killed Gonzalo.

His blood was roused again, and spirit, inflated again with the wind of honor dream again and
praise the triumphs of life and all the deeds that he could have
performed by the world.

Hallab an afternoon of September sitting on a high cliff, and pondering the idea shortly to visit
her mother when she saw walk up the hill, on a gray mule, a old lean and slender than his head
down and looked with singular attention to the grotto.

The man happened again the next morning, looking always with the same
curiosity.

Finally, one day when Ramirez came to feel so unbearable torment of hunger, mysterious old
man happened to be passing at the time of dusk, carrying forward on the chair a small basket
full of loaves and a string of onions around his shoulder.

Ramiro walked toward him, exclaiming:

- Give me, by God, an onion and some bread!

The man went on.

Ramiro, then, in a menacing voice and stronger, he repeated:

- For the love of God, give me some bread!

But the stranger, holding just the mule, said sharply:

- Better to go to ganalle with your arms.

Do you think perhaps that this filthy lazy delete crimes and perjury?

He crosses his path, and grasping with a hand brake of the horse, lifted with the other of its
bronze crucifix, repeating:

- Give me, I say, a few crumbs in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ!

Then the old man bent his body forward and, in reply, spat twice with holy boldness barbaric
image of the Redeemer. Ramiro gave a cry of horror. His body hesitated fought side by two impulses.
Finally, running with a vengeance to the cave, took the bar and came straight to the man, intending
to kill him right there. But to raise the tip to sink in that breast sacrilegious, a voice strong
and dominant, a voice penetrated his heart, checked him at once:

- Ah! Ramiro, Ramiro, just want now to stab the man who gave you life!

In pronouncing these words, Walker took off his broad hat he wore, to discover your head and better
show the whole face.

Ramiro experienced great shock. He had just recognized the mysterious character of the suburb
of Santiago, the dedicated Moorish had saved his life, leaving later, as I recall, the Saracen
dagger valuable.

- Yes, I have begotten you in the haughty Dona Guiomar - continued the old man - and your grandfather
preferred Casalla at once with the old Don Lope, in hatred of my race and my belief. Then, back
in Avila, I gave you life a second time, sacándote from the daggers
of the believers, and I Castilla expelled as a traitor.

But you, Ramiro, I paid in good coin Christian break your oath and giving to the Inquisition and
the wretched Gulina Aixa Aixa the Jarifa, Aixa the holy, that they
were thrown into the fire after they have cured and given with much
love as you have them!

Tears fell from his eyes and trembling voice, exclaimed at last:

- Ah! I do not want to curse, because a father's curse of Allah is always heard ..; no, I dare
not curse ...!

With these words he waved his left hand back, and heavily beaded mules, left fall down all the loaf,
then disappeared among the rocks.

Ramiro looked after him without calling him and walking toward the cave, went to sit in the corner
darker by pressing the crucifix to her chest.

What was heard? Her father? A Moorish!

All the mysteries of his life
came to his memory: the loneliness of his childhood, harsh grandfather
before him, the continuous and tearful melancholy Dona Guiomar, so
foreign species he had raised his lance to the converted, the sudden
diversion of Beatrice, the insult of Gonzalo on the street ... The
selfless love of one man of another faith, another race!, And saw
that it was highly understandable in light of the terrible revelation.

Could
it be true? Is it, indeed, the son of a Moor? Ah! More worth then
broken veins and let all his blood was spilled on the mud of the cave
ignored. His reason fell in terrible turmoil. The ideas seemed to
howl and swirl like the wind in one night gale. I did not want, do
not want to think, and knelt in front of nails to stun, waved his
arms in the darkness, puffing furiously as a man alienated by terror;
but was increasingly brooding inexorable, more eloquent, more profound.
Sometimes laughing their own credulity, dismissing as absurd greatest
words of the Moor; others came to feel fully convinced, and was surprised
not to have conceived so far no suspicion among many clues.

Suddenly,
the same horror of that uncertainty, he stands on his heels. Turns
the limelight. Instant thought just crossed his mind. Get in the stool,
picks old clothes and boots hanging from the top of the cave. A sound
currency pocket in breeches.

When he had changed the sackcloth of
those clothes from another time and girded sword, left the cave and
began to wander at night. He had no idea that yet another break away
without to the sea, another hope that the galleons.

He dreamed of
a region of India, where plants, fruits, birds, stars, everything
was new to him and nothing will remind old and evil land of his birth,
the land where everything was adversity, hex, hexing. Only then could
escape the curse that haunted him perhaps from the womb. 

Walked
tirelessly pushed as Ashavero, by a mysterious wind that moved the
leaves trees, and that he, with all his might, I could not resist.

At
night, in sales, seeing him appear with the old suit and beard disheveled,
tiptoe over a farmhand hit the cup of wine and crossing himself escaped
the corral.

In contrast, day, crossing the villages, the kids made
fun of his appearance and he threw behind nutshells and handfuls of
dust.

With the money he had found in the breeches bought a mule to
shorten the path and a cloak to cover, and thus, after many adventures,
was finally the city of Cadiz, in mid-December.

The same day, walking
the streets, saw a banner hung from a window company, asked by the
captain and told him that he had left the day before to Jerez. Was
going to retire when a soldier who was sitting on a bench, next to
the door, said:

- If your worship, sir knight, wants to talk to Pablo
Martinez, the lieutenant, there will have on your right.

Ramiro turned
her face and her astonishment was immense when he saw crossing the
street to her house dress page soldier's finery.

Pablillo was barely
in Flanders.

We have mentioned the weighty reasons which induced Mr. Mowbray to look upon the stranger whom
a general invitation had brought into their society, with unfavourable prepossessions; and
these were far from being abated by the demeanour of Tyrrel, which, though perfectly well-bred,
indicated a sense of equality, which the young Laird of St. Ronan's considered as extremely
presumptuous.

As for Sir Bingo, he already began to nourish the genuine hatred always entertained by a mean
spirit against an antagonist, before whom it is conscious of having made a dishonourable retreat.
He forgot not the manner, look, and tone, with which Tyrrel had checked his unauthorized intrusion;
and though he had sunk beneath it at the moment, the recollection rankled in his heart as an
affront to be avenged. As he drank his wine, courage, the want of which was, in his more sober
moments, a check upon his bad temper, began to inflame his malignity, and he ventured upon
several occasions to show his spleen, by contradicting Tyrrel more flatly than good manners
permitted upon so short an acquaintance, and without any provocation. Tyrrel saw his ill humour
and despised it, as that of an overgrown schoolboy, whom it was not worth his while to answer
according to his folly.

One of the apparent causes of the Baronet's rudeness was indeed childish enough. The company
were talking of shooting, the most animating topic of conversation among Scottish country gentlemen
of the younger class, and Tyrrel had mentioned something of a favourite setter, an uncommonly
handsome dog, from which he had been for some time separated, but which he expected would rejoin
him in the course of next week.

"A setter!" retorted Sir Bingo, with a sneer; "a pointer I suppose you mean?"

"No, sir," said Tyrrel; "I am perfectly aware of the difference betwixt a setter and a pointer,
and I know the old-fashioned setter is become unfashionable among modern sportsmen. But I love
my dog as a companion, as well as for his merits in the field; and a setter is more sagacious,
more attached, and fitter for his place on the hearth-rug, than a pointer--not," he added,
"from any deficiency of intellects on the pointer's part, but he is generally so abused while
in the management of brutal breakers and grooms, that he loses all excepting his professional
accomplishments, of finding and standing steady to game."

"And who the d----l desires he should have more?" said Sir Bingo.

"Many people, Sir Bingo," replied Tyrrel, "have been of opinion, that both dogs and men may
follow sport indifferently well, though they do happen, at the same time, to be fit for mixing
in friendly intercourse in society."

"That is for licking trenchers, and scratching copper, I suppose," said the Baronet, sotto
voce; and added, in a louder and more distinct tone,--"He never before heard that a setter
was fit to follow any man's heels but a poacher's."

"You know it now then, Sir Bingo," answered Tyrrel; "and I hope you will not fall into so great
a mistake again."

The Peace-maker here seemed to think his interference necessary, and, surmounting his tactiturnity,
made the following pithy speech:--"By Cot! and do you see, as you are looking for my opinion,
I think there is no dispute in the matter--because, by Cot! it occurs to me, d'ye see, that
ye are both right, by Cot! It may do fery well for my excellent friend Sir Bingo, who hath
stables, and kennels, and what not, to maintain the six filthy prutes that are yelping and
yowling all the tay, and all the neight too, under my window, by Cot!--And if they are yelping
and yowling there, may I never die but I wish they were yelping and yowling somewhere else.
But then there is many a man who may be as cood a gentleman at the bottom as my worthy friend
Sir Bingo, though it may be that he is poor; and if he is poor--and as if it might be my own
case, or that of this honest gentleman, Mr. Tirl--is that a reason or a law, that he is not
to keep a prute of a tog, to help him to take his sports and his pleasures? and if he has not
a stable or a kennel to put the crature into, must he not keep it in his pit of ped-room, or
upon his parlour hearth, seeing that Luckie Dods would make the kitchen too hot for the paist--and
so, if Mr. Tirl finds a setter more fitter for his purpose than a pointer, by Cot, I know no
law against it, else may I never die the black death."

If this oration appear rather long for the occasion, the reader must recollect that Captain
MacTurk had in all probability the trouble of translating it from the periphrastic language
of Ossian, in which it was originally conceived in his own mind.

The Man of Law replied to the Man of Peace, "Ye are mistaken for ance in your life, Captain,
for there is a law against setters; and I will undertake to prove them to be the 'lying dogs,'
which are mentioned in the auld Scots statute, and which all and sundry are discharged to keep,
under a penalty of"----

Here the Captain broke in, with a very solemn mien and dignified manner--"By Cot! Master Meiklewham,
and I shall be asking what you mean by talking to me of peing mistaken, and apout lying togs,
sir--because I would have you to know, and to pelieve, and to very well consider, that I never
was mistaken in my life, sir, unless it was when I took you for a gentleman."

"No offence, Captain," said Mr. Meiklewham; "dinna break the wand of peace, man, you that should
be the first to keep it.--He is as cankered," continued the Man of Law, apart to his patron,
"as an auld Hieland terrier, that snaps at whatever comes near it--but I tell you ae thing,
St. Ronan's, and that is on saul and conscience, that I believe this is the very lad Tirl,
that I raised a summons against before the justices--him and another hempie--in your father's
time, for shooting on the Spring-well-head muirs."

"The devil you did, Mick!" replied the Lord of the Manor, also aside;--"Well, I am obliged
to you for giving me some reason for the ill thoughts I had of him--I knew he was some trumpery
scamp--I'll blow him, by"----

"Whisht--stop--hush--haud your tongue, St. Ronan's,--keep a calm sough--ye see, I intended
the process, by your worthy father's desire, before the Quarter Sessions--but I ken na--The
auld sheriff-clerk stood the lad's friend--and some of the justices thought it was but a mistake
of the marches, and sae we couldna get a judgment--and your father was very ill of the gout,
and I was feared to vex him, and so I was fain to let the process sleep, for fear they had
been assoilzied.--Sae ye had better gang cautiously to wark, St. Ronan's, for though they were
summoned, they were not convict."

"Could you not take up the action again?" said Mr. Mowbray.

"Whew! it's been prescribed sax or seeven year syne. It is a great shame, St. Ronan's, that
the game laws, whilk are the very best protection that is left to country gentlemen against
the encroachment of their inferiors, rin sae short a course of prescription--a poacher may
just jink ye back and forward like a flea in a blanket, (wi' pardon)--hap ye out of ae county
and into anither at their pleasure, like pyots--and unless ye get your thum-nail on them in
the very nick o' time, ye may dine on a dish of prescription, and sup upon an absolvitor."

"It is a shame indeed," said Mowbray, turning from his confident and agent, and addressing
himself to the company in general, yet not without a peculiar look directed to Tyrrel.

"What is a shame, sir?" said Tyrrel, conceiving that the observation was particularly addressed
to him.

"That we should have so many poachers upon our muirs, sir," answered St. Ronan's. "I sometimes
regret having countenanced the Well here, when I think how many guns it has brought on my property
every season."

"Hout fie! hout awa, St. Ronan's!" said his Man of Law; "no countenance the Waal? What would
the country-side be without it, I would be glad to ken? It's the greatest improvement that
has been made on this country since the year forty-five. Na, na, it's no the Waal that's to
blame for the poaching and delinquencies on the game. We maun to the Aultoun for the howf of
that kind of cattle. Our rules at the Waal are clear and express against trespassers on the game."

"I can't think," said the Squire, "what made my father sell the property of the old change-house
yonder, to the hag that keeps it open out of spite, I think, and to harbour poachers and vagabonds!--I
cannot conceive what made him do so foolish a thing!"

"Probably because your father wanted money, sir," said Tyrrel, dryly; "and my worthy landlady,
Mrs. Dods, had got some.--You know, I presume, sir, that I lodge there?"

"Oh, sir," replied Mowbray, in a tone betwixt scorn and civility, "you cannot suppose the present
company is alluded to; I only presumed to mention as a fact, that we have been annoyed with
unqualified people shooting on our grounds, without either liberty or license. And I hope to
have her sign taken down for it--that is all.--There was the same plague in my father's days,
I think, Mick?"

But Mr. Meiklewham, who did not like Tyrrel's looks so well as to induce him to become approver
on the occasion, replied with an inarticulate grunt, addressed to the company, and a private
admonition to his patron's own ear, "to let sleeping dogs lie."

"I can scarce forbear the fellow," said St. Ronan's; "and yet I cannot well tell where my dislike
to him lies--but it would be d----d folly to turn out with him for nothing; and so, honest
Mick, I will be as quiet as I can."

"And that you may be so," said Meiklewham, "I think you had best take no more wine."

"I think so too," said the Squire; "for each glass I drink in his company gives me the heartburn--yet
the man is not different from other raffs either--but there is a something about him intolerable
to me."

So saying, he pushed back his chair from the table, and--regis ad exemplar--after the pattern
of the Laird, all the company arose.

Sir Bingo got up with reluctance, which he testified by two or three deep growls, as he followed
the rest of the company into the outer apartment, which served as an entrance-hall, and divided
the dining-parlour from the tea-room, as it was called. Here, while the party were assuming
their hats, for the purpose of joining the ladies' society, (which old-fashioned folk used
only to take up for that of going into the open air,) Tyrrel asked a smart footman, who stood
near, to hand him the hat which lay on the table beyond.

"Call your own servant, sir," answered the fellow, with the true insolence of a pampered menial.

"Your master," answered Tyrrel, "ought to have taught you good manners, my friend, before bringing
you here."

"Sir Bingo Binks is my master," said the fellow, in the same insolent tone as before.

"Now for it, Bingie," said Mowbray, who was aware that the Baronet's pot-courage had arrived
at fighting pitch.

"Yes!" said Sir Bingo aloud, and more articulately than usual--"The fellow is my servant--what
has any one to say to it?"

"I at least have my mouth stopped," answered Tyrrel, with perfect composure. "I should have
been surprised to have found Sir Bingo's servant better bred than himself."

"What d'ye mean by that, sir?" said Sir Bingo, coming up in an offensive attitude, for he was
no mean pupil of the Fives-Court--"What d'ye mean by that? D----n you, sir! I'll serve you
out before you can say dumpling."

"And I, Sir Bingo, unless you presently lay aside that look and manner, will knock you down
before you can cry help."

The visitor held in his hand a slip of oak, with which he gave a flourish, that, however slight,
intimated some acquaintance with the noble art of single-stick. From this demonstration Sir
Bingo thought it prudent somewhat to recoil, though backed by a party of friends, who, in their
zeal for his honour, would rather have seen his bones broken in conflict bold, than his honour
injured by a discreditable retreat; and Tyrrel seemed to have some inclination to indulge them.
But, at the very instant when his hand was raised with a motion of no doubtful import, a whispering
voice, close to his ear, pronounced the emphatic words--"Are you a man?"

Not the thrilling tone with which our inimitable Siddons used to electrify the scene, when
she uttered the same whisper, ever had a more powerful effect upon an auditor, than had these
unexpected sounds on him, to whom they were now addressed. Tyrrel forgot every thing--his quarrel--the
circumstances in which he was placed--the company. The crowd was to him at once annihilated,
and life seemed to have no other object than to follow the person who had spoken. But suddenly
as he turned, the disappearance of the monitor was at least equally so, for, amid the group
of commonplace countenances by which he was surrounded, there was none which assorted to the
tone and words, which possessed such a power over him. "Make way," he said, to those who surrounded
him; and it was in the tone of one who was prepared, if necessary, to make way for himself.

Mr. Mowbray of St. Ronan's stepped forward. "Come, sir," said he, "this will not do--you have
come here, a stranger among us, to assume airs and dignities, which, by G--d, would become
a duke, or a prince! We must know who or what you are, before we permit you to carry your high
tone any farther."

This address seemed at once to arrest Tyrrel's anger, and his impatience to leave the company.
He turned to Mowbray, collected his thoughts for an instant, and then answered him thus:--"Mr.
Mowbray, I seek no quarrel with any one here--with you, in particular, I am most unwilling
to have any disagreement. I came here by invitation, not certainly expecting much pleasure,
but, at the same time, supposing myself secure from incivility. In the last point, I find myself
mistaken, and therefore wish the company good-night. I must also make my adieus to the ladies."

So saying, he walked several steps, yet, as it seemed, rather irresolutely, towards the door
of the card-room--and then, to the increased surprise of the company, stopped suddenly, and
muttering something about the "unfitness of the time," turned on his heel, and bowing haughtily,
as there was way made for him, walked in the opposite direction towards the door which led
to the outer hall.

"D----me, Sir Bingo, will you let him off?" said Mowbray, who seemed to delight in pushing
his friend into new scrapes--"To him, man--to him--he shows the white feather."

Sir Bingo, thus encouraged, planted himself with a look of defiance exactly between Tyrrel
and the door; upon which the retreating guest, bestowing on him most emphatically the epithet
Fool, seized him by the collar, and flung him out of his way with some violence.

"I am to be found at the Old Town of St. Ronan's by whomsoever has any concern with me."--Without
waiting the issue of this aggression farther than to utter these words, Tyrrel left the hotel.
He stopped in the court-yard, however, with the air of one uncertain whither he intended to
go, and who was desirous to ask some question, which seemed to die upon his tongue. At length
his eye fell upon a groom, who stood not far from the door of the inn, holding in his hand
a handsome pony, with a side-saddle.

"Whose"----said Tyrrel--but the rest of the question he seemed unable to utter.

The man, however, replied, as if he had heard the whole interrogation.--"Miss Mowbray's, sir,
of St. Ronan's--she leaves directly--and so I am walking the pony--a clever thing, sir, for
a lady."

"She returns to Shaws-Castle by the Buck-stane road?"

"I suppose so, sir," said the groom. "It is the nighest, and Miss Clara cares little for rough
roads. Zounds! She can spank it over wet and dry."

Tyrrel turned away from the man, and hastily left the hotel--not, however, by the road which
led to the Aultoun, but by a footpath among the natural copsewood, which, following the course
of the brook, intersected the usual horse-road to Shaws-Castle, the seat of Mr. Mowbray, at
a romantic spot called the Buck-stane.

In a small peninsula, formed by a winding of the brook, was situated, on a rising hillock,
a large rough-hewn pillar of stone, said by tradition to commemorate the fall of a stag of
unusual speed, size, and strength, whose flight, after having lasted through a whole summer's
day, had there terminated in death, to the honour and glory of some ancient baron of St. Ronan's,
and of his stanch hounds. During the periodical cuttings of the copse, which the necessities
of the family of St. Ronan's brought round more frequently than Ponty would have recommended,
some oaks had been spared in the neighbourhood of this massive obelisk, old enough perhaps
to have heard the whoop and halloo which followed the fall of the stag, and to have witnessed
the raising of the rude monument by which that great event was commemorated. These trees, with
their broad spreading boughs, made a twilight even of noon-day; and, now that the sun was approaching
its setting point, their shade already anticipated night. This was especially the case where
three or four of them stretched their arms over a deep gully, through which winded the horse-path
to Shaws-Castle, at a point about a pistol-shot distant from the Buck-stane. As the principal
access to Mr. Mowbray's mansion was by a carriage-way, which passed in a different direction,
the present path was left almost in a state of nature, full of large stones, and broken by
gullies, delightful, from the varied character of its banks, to the picturesque traveller,
and most inconvenient, nay dangerous, to him who had a stumbling horse.

The footpath to the Buck-stane, which here joined the bridle-road, had been constructed, at
the expense of a subscription, under the direction of Mr. Winterblossom, who had taste enough
to see the beauties of this secluded spot, which was exactly such as in earlier times might
have harboured the ambush of some marauding chief. This recollection had not escaped Tyrrel,
to whom the whole scenery was familiar, who now hastened to the spot, as one which peculiarly
suited his present purpose. He sat down by one of the larger projecting trees, and, screened
by its enormous branches from observation, was enabled to watch the road from the Hotel for
a great part of its extent, while he was himself invisible to any who might travel upon it.

Meanwhile his sudden departure excited a considerable sensation among the party whom he had
just left, and who were induced to form conclusions not very favourable to his character. Sir
Bingo, in particular, blustered loudly and more loudly, in proportion to the increasing distance
betwixt himself and his antagonist, declaring his resolution to be revenged on the scoundrel
for his insolence--to drive him from the neighbourhood--and I know not what other menaces of
formidable import. The devil, in the old stories of diàblerie, was always sure to start up
at the elbow of any one who nursed diabolical purposes, and only wanted a little backing from
the foul fiend to carry his imaginations into action. The noble Captain MacTurk had so far
this property of his infernal majesty, that the least hint of an approaching quarrel drew him
always to the vicinity of the party concerned. He was now at Sir Bingo's side, and was taking
his own view of the matter, in his character of peace-maker.

"By Cot! and it's very exceedingly true, my goot friend, Sir Binco--and as you say, it concerns
your honour, and the honour of the place, and credit and character of the whole company, by
Cot! that this matter be properly looked after; for, as I think, he laid hands on your body,
my excellent goot friend."

"Hands, Captain MacTurk!" exclaimed Sir Bingo, in some confusion; "no, blast him--not so bad
as that neither--if he had, I should have handed him over the window--but, by ----, the fellow
had the impudence to offer to collar me--I had just stepped back to square at him, when, curse
me, the blackguard ran away."

"Right, vara right, Sir Bingo," said the Man of Law, "a vara perfect blackguard, a poaching
sorning sort of fallow, that I will have scoured out of the country before he be three days
aulder. Fash you your beard nae farther about the matter, Sir Bingo."

"By Cot! but I can tell you, Mr. Meiklewham," said the Man of Peace, with great solemnity of
visage, "that you are scalding your lips in other folk's kale, and that it is necessary for
the credit, and honour, and respect of this company, at the Well of St. Ronan's, that Sir Bingo
goes by more competent advice than yours upon the present occasion, Mr. Meiklewham; for though
your counsel may do very well in a small debt court, here, you see, Mr. Meiklewham, is a question
of honour, which is not a thing in your line, as I take it."

"No, before George! it is not," answered Meiklewham; "e'en take it all to yoursell, Captain,
and meikle ye are likely to make on't."

"Then," said the Captain, "Sir Binco, I will beg the favour of your company to the smoking
room, where we may have a cigar and a glass of gin-twist; and we will consider how the honour
of the company must be supported and upholden upon the present conjuncture."

The Baronet complied with this invitation, as much, perhaps, in consequence of the medium through
which the Captain intended to convey his warlike counsels, as for the pleasure with which he
anticipated the result of these counsels themselves. He followed the military step of his leader,
whose stride was more stiff, and his form more perpendicular, when exalted by the consciousness
of an approaching quarrel, to the smoking-room, where, sighing as he lighted his cigar, Sir
Bingo prepared to listen to the words of wisdom and valour, as they should flow in mingled
stream from the lips of Captain MacTurk.

Meanwhile the rest of the company joined the ladies. "Here has been Clara," said Lady Penelope
to Mr. Mowbray; "here has been Miss Mowbray among us, like the ray of a sun which does but
dazzle and die."

"Ah, poor Clara," said Mowbray; "I thought I saw her thread her way through the crowd a little
while since, but I was not sure."

"Well," said Lady Penelope, "she has asked us all up to Shaws-Castle on Thursday, to a déjeûner
à la fourchette--I trust you confirm your sister's invitation, Mr. Mowbray?"

"Certainly, Lady Penelope," replied Mowbray; "and I am truly glad Clara has had the grace to
think of it--How we shall acquit ourselves is a different question, for neither she nor I are
much accustomed to play host or hostess."

"Oh! it will be delightful, I am sure," said Lady Penelope; "Clara has a grace in every thing
she does; and you, Mr. Mowbray, can be a perfectly well-bred gentleman--when you please."

"That qualification is severe--Well--good manners be my speed--I will certainly please to do
my best, when I see your ladyship at Shaws-Castle, which has received no company this many
a day.--Clara and I have lived a wild life of it, each in their own way."

"Indeed, Mr. Mowbray," said Lady Binks, "if I might presume to speak--I think you do suffer
your sister to ride about a little too much without an attendant. I know Miss Mowbray rides
as woman never rode before, but still an accident may happen."

"An accident?" replied Mowbray--"Ah, Lady Binks! accidents happen as frequently when ladies
have attendants as when they are without them."

Lady Binks, who, in her maiden state, had cantered a good deal about these woods under Sir
Bingo's escort, coloured, looked spiteful, and was silent.

"Besides," said John Mowbray, more lightly, "where is the risk, after all? There are no wolves
in our woods to eat up our pretty Red-Riding Hoods; and no lions either--except those of Lady
Penelope's train."

"Who draw the car of Cybele," said Mr. Chatterly.

Lady Penelope luckily did not understand the allusion, which was indeed better intended than
imagined.

"Apropos!" she said; "what have you done with the great lion of the day? I see Mr. Tyrrel nowhere--Is
he finishing an additional bottle with Sir Bingo?"

"Mr. Tyrrel, madam," said Mowbray, "has acted successively the lion rampant, and the lion passant:
he has been quarrelsome, and he has run away--fled from the ire of your doughty knight, Lady
Binks."

"I am sure I hope not," said Lady Binks; "my Chevalier's unsuccessful campaigns have been unable
to overcome his taste for quarrels--a victory would make a fighting-man of him for life."

"That inconvenience might bring its own consolations," said Winterblossom, apart to Mowbray;
"quarrellers do not usually live long."

"No, no," replied Mowbray, "the lady's despair, which broke out just now, even in her own despite,
is quite natural--absolutely legitimate. Sir Bingo will give her no chance that way."

Mowbray then made his bow to Lady Penelope, and in answer to her request that he would join
the ball or the card-table, observed, that he had no time to lose; that the heads of the old
domestics at Shaws-Castle would be by this time absolutely turned, by the apprehensions of
what Thursday was to bring forth; and that as Clara would certainly give no directions for
the proper arrangements, it was necessary that he should take that trouble himself.

"If you ride smartly," said Lady Penelope, "you may save even a temporary alarm, by overtaking
Clara, dear creature, ere she gets home--She sometimes suffers her pony to go at will along
the lane, as slow as Betty Foy's."

"Ah, but then," said little Miss Digges, "Miss Mowbray sometimes gallops as if the lark was
a snail to her pony--and it quite frights one to see her."

The Doctor touched Mrs. Blower, who had approached so as to be on the verge of the genteel
circle, though she did not venture within it--they exchanged sagacious looks, and a most pitiful
shake of the head. Mowbray's eye happened at that moment to glance on them; and doubtless,
notwithstanding their hasting to compose their countenances to a different expression, he comprehended
what was passing through their minds;--and perhaps it awoke a corresponding note in his own.
He took his hat, and with a cast of thought upon his countenance which it seldom wore, left
the apartment. A moment afterwards his horse's feet were heard spurning the pavement, as he
started off at a sharp pace. Today everything is interested and malice. Out of one another
as Ayala or Jusepe de la Hera, but no longer looking to fill soon and the bank. In my time beat
each sword as if we're looking at the world and God thyself. If not leave honored and enforced,
as it should be, do not we put on the market for all the gold of the Indies. Ah, when I was on a
sheet and sacábala finish last of the embers, color liver and the kidney anointed him to end
up putting it to cool, the heart was trembling, gentle sir!

Ramiro observed sideways at his partner. She wore a beautiful hazel color doublet hinted crimson
velvet doublet. A gold circlet around her sparkled high hat. Her sallow face, wide and bulky
to the front, was narrowing as a fig brown, to conclude her chin. Under yet black brows, shining
Two eyes sharp and nervous, who had lived tasting fair dye irons and following the arabesque of
ataujías. The fire had scorched their hands and dark warty like branches. His face looked serious
and stern expressed honor and firmness.

While Ramiro had always looked with aristocratic contempt anyone who debased their mechanical
trades hands, he thought this time that the wise manufacture of the weapons should be free of
villainy, as illustrious task in the service of the highest enterprises. In addition, he had
heard that Mr. Toledo did not disdain the treatment of espaderos distinguished and that the
forges of the city were meeting place and playground for the nobles.

Those architects were certainly deserving of special respect. Locked in the smoky workshop,
Domenico as iron Cyclops tenacious and brave fire, and were broadcast from one generation to
the priesthood of his master's rude. The passion of the race had claimed to use these steels highest
unique tool that distinguished honor and domination. Their daggers, their shields, their rapiers,
armor, had become so famous Toledo as the councils.

Domingo de Aguirre, having returned the sword, now supported both hands in his and continued saying

-
How much, sir, that weapons are no longer what they were, when we
see that the entire nation track to their doom?

Ramiro made a gesture of astonishment.

- Yes, sir knight, Spain lost. The Courts claim and the King does not hear. The commoner he is breaking
the backbone under the burden of taxes, sick industries worm of the
sales tax, cities chagrin, squalid camps.

Agora whole art private is to plunder the villages. Today all the Esquiline gnaw to the blood,
although perish tomorrow. Daca, daca, and Menga vénguese against which it comes.

- And you think your worship - said Ramiro - tribute that we should leave more or less honorable wars
that are settling our reputation around the world and the nation
will Spanish wonder of the coming centuries?

He said interruption polite accent, but are not counteract those verbs that began to interest
and that at times brought him to mind the words of Bracamonte.

- Wars honorable, sir, were those of yesteryear, when kingdoms were
won by the sword, - said the swordsmith, - but they all done that
or lost doubloons ailments.

Do you think perhaps your worship that the thirds are now to the war for the glory or the triumph
our holy religion? Today, as I do tell the soldier of an appetizer, which has little I wrote ...

He paused, mondo chest, and as a helper, he recited the following speech:

- Today, vote Lordy, no shield to defend as it sounds in the bag,
drummer you do go better than doubloons, more lucid than real silver.
Once risked life for the glory of the king, his face Hogan struck
in Segovia. Gánanse duchies with ducats, the streets of France with
their own guns, and I swear by Saint Andrew!, previously do heretics
quarters holgárame my pennies to quarters.

- Clever Language - Ramiro
said.

"Amen!" said Tyrrel.--"But what avails this excess of agitation?--You saw me but now, Miss
Mowbray--Your voice still rings in my ears--You saw me but now--you spoke to me--and that when
I was among strangers--Why not preserve your composure, when we are where no human eye can
see--no human ear can hear?"

"Is it so?" said Clara; "and was it indeed yourself whom I saw even now?--I thought so, and
something I said at the time--but my brain has been but ill settled since we last met--But
I am well now--quite well--I have invited all the people yonder to come to Shaws-Castle--my
brother desired me to do it--I hope I shall have the pleasure of seeing Mr. Tyrrel there--though
I think there is some old grudge between my brother and you."

"Alas! Clara, you mistake. Your brother I have scarcely seen," replied Tyrrel, much distressed,
and apparently uncertain in what tone to address her, which might soothe, and not irritate
her mental malady, of which he could now entertain no doubt.

"True--true," she said, after a moment's reflection, "my brother was then at college. It was
my father, my poor father, whom you had some quarrel with.--But you will come to Shaws-Castle
on Thursday, at two o'clock?--John will be glad to see you--he can be kind when he pleases--and
then we will talk of old times--I must get on, to have things ready--Good evening."

She would have passed him, but he took gently hold of the rein of her bridle.--"I will walk
with you, Clara," he said; "the road is rough and dangerous--you ought not to ride fast.--I
will walk along with you, and we will talk of former times now, more conveniently than in company."

"True--true--very true, Mr. Tyrrel--it shall be as you say. My brother obliges me sometimes
to go into company at that hateful place down yonder; and I do so because he likes it, and
because the folks let me have my own way, and come and go as I list. Do you know, Tyrrel, that
very often when I am there, and John has his eye on me, I can carry it on as gaily as if you
and I had never met?"

"I would to God we never had," said Tyrrel, in a trembling voice, "since this is to be the
end of all!"

"And wherefore should not sorrow be the end of sin and of folly? And when did happiness come
of disobedience?--And when did sound sleep visit a bloody pillow? That is what I say to myself,
Tyrrel, and that is what you must learn to say too, and then you will bear your burden as cheerfully
as I endure mine. If we have no more than our deserts, why should we complain?--You are shedding
tears, I think--Is not that childish?--They say it is a relief--if so, weep on, and I will
look another way."

Tyrrel walked on by the pony's side, in vain endeavouring to compose himself so as to reply.

"Poor Tyrrel," said Clara, after she had remained silent for some time--"Poor Frank Tyrrel!--Perhaps
you will say in your turn, Poor Clara--but I am not so poor in spirit as you--the blast may
bend, but it shall never break me."

There was another long pause; for Tyrrel was unable to determine with himself in what strain
he could address the unfortunate young lady, without awakening recollections equally painful
to her feelings, and dangerous, when her precarious state of health was considered. At length
she herself proceeded:--

"What needs all this, Tyrrel?--and indeed, why came you here?--Why did I find you but now brawling
and quarrelling among the loudest of the brawlers and quarrellers of yonder idle and dissipated
debauchees?--You were used to have more temper--more sense. Another person--ay, another that
you and I once knew--he might have committed such a folly, and he would have acted perhaps
in character.--But you, who pretend to wisdom--for shame, for shame!--And indeed, when we talk
of that, what wisdom was there in coming hither at all?--or what good purpose can your remaining
here serve?--Surely you need not come, either to renew your own unhappiness or to augment mine?"

"To augment yours--God forbid!" answered Tyrrel. "No--I came hither only because, after so
many years of wandering, I longed to revisit the spot where all my hopes lay buried."

"Ay--buried is the word," she replied, "crushed down and buried when they budded fairest. I
often think of it, Tyrrel; and there are times when, Heaven help me! I can think of little
else.--Look at me--you remember what I was--see what grief and solitude have made me."

She flung back the veil which surrounded her riding-hat, and which had hitherto hid her face.
It was the same countenance which he had formerly known in all the bloom of early beauty; but
though the beauty remained, the bloom was fled for ever. Not the agitation of exercise--not
that which arose from the pain and confusion of this unexpected interview, had called to poor
Clara's cheek even the momentary semblance of colour. Her complexion was marble-white, like
that of the finest piece of statuary.

"Is it possible?" said Tyrrel; "can grief have made such ravages?"

"Grief," replied Clara, "is the sickness of the mind, and its sister is the sickness of the
body--they are twin-sisters, Tyrrel, and are seldom long separate. Sometimes the body's disease
comes first, and dims our eyes and palsies our hands, before the fire of our mind and of our
intellect is quenched. But mark me--soon after comes her cruel sister with her urn, and sprinkles
cold dew on our hopes and on our loves, our memory, our recollections, and our feelings, and
shows us that they cannot survive the decay of our bodily powers."

"Alas!" said Tyrrel, "is it come to this?"

"To this," she replied, speaking from the rapid and irregular train of her own ideas, rather
than comprehending the purport of his sorrowful exclamation,--"to this it must ever come, while
immortal souls are wedded to the perishable substance of which our bodies are composed. There
is another state, Tyrrel, in which it will be otherwise--God grant our time of enjoying it
were come!"

She fell into a melancholy pause, which Tyrrel was afraid to disturb. The quickness with which
she spoke, marked but too plainly the irregular succession of thought, and he was obliged to
restrain the agony of his own feelings, rendered more acute by a thousand painful recollections,
lest, by giving way to his expressions of grief, he should throw her into a still more disturbed
state of mind.

"I did not think," she proceeded, "that after so horrible a separation, and so many years,
I could have met you thus calmly and reasonably. But although what we were formerly to each
other can never be forgotten, it is now all over, and we are only friends--Is it not so?"

Tyrrel was unable to reply.

"But I must not remain here," she said, "till the evening grows darker on me.--We shall meet
again, Tyrrel--meet as friends--nothing more--You will come up to Shaws-Castle and see me?--no
need of secrecy now--my poor father is in his grave, and his prejudices sleep with him--my
brother John is kind, though he is stern and severe sometimes--Indeed, Tyrrel, I believe he
loves me, though he has taught me to tremble at his frown when I am in spirits, and talk too
much--But he loves me, at least I think so, for I am sure I love him; and I try to go down
amongst them yonder, and to endure their folly, and, all things considered, I do carry on the
farce of life wonderfully well--We are but actors, you know, and the world but a stage."

"And ours has been a sad and tragic scene," said Tyrrel, in the bitterness of his heart, unable
any longer to refrain from speech.

"It has indeed--but, Tyrrel, when was it otherwise with engagements formed in youth and in
folly? You and I would, you know, become men and women, while we were yet scarcely more than
children--We have run, while yet in our nonage, through the passions and adventures of youth,
and therefore we are now old before our day, and the winter of our life has come on ere its
summer was well begun.--O Tyrrel! often and often have I thought of this!--Thought of it often?
Alas, when will the time come that I shall be able to think of any thing else!"

The poor young woman sobbed bitterly, and her tears began to flow with a freedom which they
had not probably enjoyed for a length of time. Tyrrel walked on by the side of her horse, which
now prosecuted its road homewards, unable to devise a proper mode of addressing the unfortunate
young lady, and fearing alike to awaken her passions and his own. Whatever he might have proposed
to say, was disconcerted by the plain indications that her mind was clouded, more or less slightly,
with a shade of insanity, which deranged, though it had not destroyed, her powers of judgment.

At length he asked her, with as much calmness as he could assume--if she was contented--if
aught could be done to render her situation more easy--if there was aught of which she could
complain which he might be able to remedy? She answered gently, that she was calm and resigned,
when her brother would permit her to stay at home; but that when she was brought into society,
she experienced such a change as that which the water of the brook that slumbers in a crystalline
pool of the rock may be supposed to feel, when, gliding from its quiet bed, it becomes involved
in the hurry of the cataract.

"But my brother Mowbray," she said, "thinks he is right,--and perhaps he is so. Babbling, then broken words, She took both hands
to the face. Those moments were solemn. The floating irreparable insult, and appeared to be heard,
again and again, in silence. Canon muttering, moaning, sighing, with their faces covered. Finally,
hands down, embozose with fury, and, after searching out like a blind man along the wall, disappeared
from the block, giving the foot, to ago, a terrible bang.

Ramiro felt all its mechanical attachment to this man had just bartered in sudden rancor. The tense
and hostile attitude, which still retained, new impulses of hatred suscitábale against his victim.

When
he began to calm down, "he said aloud, sitting on the couch:

- I
did not need him, or anyone!

II

Avila few days to more sad that this Monday, February 17, 1592.

The city awoke in a sinister expectation. The horror of imminent execution by all parties seemed
to float mixed with the morning mist.

Chico Market Amid stood a large black cube, the scaffold, and gusts North shake against the squeegee
pine skeleton gallows. Funeral justice ministers were moving around. At ten o'clock brought
the firm, the chandeliers, the crucifix. Later the boys from the executioner came to the site
and the two black pillows for the defendant. The rain fell at times thin ice.

The drudgery of every day began, but the neighbors came and went more severe than usual, kicking snow
on Wednesday. Some spoke mysteriously found, others discussed mesons in unusual nervousness without
raising too loudly, but sheer muzzle and sometimes taking manly parts with the whole hand, to
give more force to his bullying and swearing.

With no open doors and windows, the houses of the nobility had the appearance of faces pathetic
and muted. We aimed in the air that fear, that death disgust court overwhelms reason, and a
shadow of disgrace enveloped the entire Avila. The proudest of his knights was to be executed on behalf
of the King. No further decline would have been eighty-sweep eight towers, waiting now, with
strange pallor, the rupture of that neck, which seemed have embodied the fierceness of the wall.

Word
spread that, at two in the afternoon, Don Diego would be pulled out
of the Corn Exchange.

That building as a prison was for the nobles and rose from the Keep and the Alcazar, on the
outside, opposite the Mercado Grande. When Ramirez came to the facade emblazoned, employees
of royal justice and community thronged and buzzing like flies on either side of the gate and
around the source, while the fraternities and orders waiting in long line, from Market Square
to beyond the convent Santa Maria de Gracia. The monks prayed.

Unapt at any time to exact much personal attendance, and desirous to shun at that moment the
necessity of speaking to any person whatever, even on the most trifling subject, he walked
down into the kitchen to supply himself with what he wanted. He did not at first observe that
Mrs. Dods herself was present in this the very centre of her empire, far less that a lofty
air of indignation was seated on the worthy matron's brow. At first it only vented itself in
broken soliloquy and interjections; as, for example, "Vera bonny wark this!--vera creditable
wark, indeed!--a decent house to be disturbed at these hours--Keep a public--as weel keep a
bedlam!"

Finding these murmurs attracted no attention, the dame placed herself betwixt her guest and
the door, to which he was now retiring with his lighted candle, and demanded of him what was
the meaning of such behaviour.

"Of what behaviour, madam?" said her guest, repeating her question in a tone of sternness and
impatience so unusual with him, that perhaps she was sorry at the moment that she had provoked
him out of his usual patient indifference; nay, she might even feel intimidated at the altercation
she had provoked, for the resentment of a quiet and patient person has always in it something
formidable to the professed and habitual grumbler. But her pride was too great to think of
a retreat, after having sounded the signal for contest, and so she continued, though in a tone
somewhat lowered.

"Maister Tirl, I wad but just ask you, that are a man of sense, whether I hae ony right to
take your behaviour weel? Here have you been these ten days and mair, eating the best, and
drinking the best, and taking up the best room in my house; and now to think of your gaun doun
and taking up with yon idle harebrained cattle at the Waal--I maun e'en be plain wi' ye--I
like nane of the fair-fashioned folk that can say My Jo and think it no; and therefore"----

"Mrs. Dods," said Tyrrel, interrupting her, "I have no time at present for trifles. I am obliged
to you for your attention while I have been in your house; but the disposal of my time, here
or elsewhere, must be according to my own ideas of pleasure or business--If you are tired of
me as a guest, send in your bill to-morrow."

"My bill!" said Mrs. Dods; "my bill to-morrow! And what for no wait till Saturday, when it
may be cleared atween us, plack and bawbee, as it was on Saturday last?"

"Well--we will talk of it to-morrow, Mrs. Dods--Good-night." And he withdrew accordingly.

Luckie Dods stood ruminating for a moment. "The deil's in him," she said, "for he winna bide
being thrawn. And I think the deil's in me too for thrawing him, sic a canny lad, and sae gude
a customer;--and I am judging he has something on his mind--want of siller it canna be--I am
sure if I thought that, I wadna care about my small thing.--But want o' siller it canna be--he
pays ower the shillings as if they were sclate stanes, and that's no the way that folk part
with their siller when there's but little on't--I ken weel eneugh how a customer looks that's
near the grund of the purse.--Weel! I hope he winna mind ony thing of this nonsense the morn,
and I'll try to guide my tongue something better.--Hegh, sirs! but, as the minister says, it's
an unruly member--troth, I am whiles ashamed o't mysell."

CHAPTER X.

RESOURCES.

    Come, let me have thy counsel, for I need it;
    Thou art of those, who better help their friends
    With sage advice, than usurers with gold,
    Or brawlers with their swords--I'll trust to thee,
    For I ask only from thee words, not deeds.

The Devil hath met his Match.

The day of which we last gave the events chanced to be Monday, and two days therefore intervened
betwixt it and that for which the entertainment was fixed, that was to assemble in the halls
of the Lord of the Manor the flower of the company now at St. Ronan's Well. The interval was
but brief for the preparations necessary on an occasion so unusual; since the house, though
delightfully situated, was in very indifferent repair, and for years had never received any
visitors, except when some blithe bachelor or fox-hunter shared the hospitality of Mr. Mowbray;
an event which became daily more and more uncommon; for, as he himself almost lived at the
Well, he generally contrived to receive his companions where it could be done without expense
to himself. Besides, the health of his sister afforded an irresistible apology to any of those
old-fashioned Scottish gentlemen, who might be too apt (in the rudeness of more primitive days)
to consider a friend's house as their own. Mr. Mowbray was now, however, to the great delight
of all his companions, nailed down, by invitation given and accepted, and they looked forward
to the accomplishment of his promise, with the eagerness which the prospect of some entertaining
novelty never fails to produce among idlers.

A good deal of trouble devolved on Mr. Mowbray, and his trusty agent Mr. Meiklewham, before
any thing like decent preparation could be made for the ensuing entertainment; and they were
left to their unassisted endeavours by Clara, who, during both the Tuesday and Wednesday, obstinately
kept herself secluded; nor could her brother, either by threats or flattery, extort from her
any light concerning her purpose on the approaching and important Thursday. To do John Mowbray
justice, he loved his sister as much as he was capable of loving any thing but himself; and
when, in several arguments, he had the mortification to find that she was not to be prevailed
on to afford her assistance, he, without complaint, quietly set himself to do the best he could
by his own unassisted judgment or opinion with regard to the necessary preparations.

This was not, at present, so easy a task as might be supposed: for Mowbray was ambitious of
that character of ton and elegance, which masculine faculties alone are seldom capable of attaining
on such momentous occasions. The more solid materials of a collation were indeed to be obtained
for money from the next market-town, and were purchased accordingly; but he felt it was likely
to present the vulgar plenty of a farmer's feast, instead of the elegant entertainment, which
might be announced in a corner of the county paper, as given by John Mowbray, Esq. of St. Ronan's,
to the gay and fashionable company assembled at that celebrated spring. There was likely to
be all sorts of error and irregularity in dishing, and in sending up; for Shaws-Castle boasted
neither an accomplished housekeeper, nor a kitchenmaid with a hundred pair of hands to execute
her mandates. All the domestic arrangements were on the minutest system of economy consistent
with ordinary decency, except in the stables, which were excellent and well kept. But can a
groom of the stables perform the labours of a groom of the chambers? or can the gamekeeper
arrange in tempting order the carcasses of the birds he has shot, strew them with flowers,
and garnish them with piquant sauces? It would be as reasonable to expect a gallant soldier
to act as undertaker, and conduct the funeral of the enemy he has slain.

In a word, Mowbray talked, and consulted, and advised, and squabbled, with the deaf cook, and
a little old man whom he called the butler, until he at length perceived so little chance of
bringing order out of confusion, or making the least advantageous impression on such obdurate
understandings as he had to deal with, that he fairly committed the whole matter of the collation,
with two or three hearty curses, to the charge of the officials principally concerned, and
proceeded to take the state of the furniture and apartments under his consideration.

Here he found himself almost equally helpless; for what male wit is adequate to the thousand
little coquetries practised in such arrangements? how can masculine eyes judge of the degree
of demi-jour which is to be admitted into a decorated apartment, or discriminate where the
broad light should be suffered to fall on a tolerable picture, where it should be excluded,
lest the stiff daub of a periwigged grandsire should become too rigidly prominent? And if men
are unfit for weaving such a fairy web of light and darkness as may best suit furniture, ornaments,
and complexions, how shall they be adequate to the yet more mysterious office of arranging,
while they disarrange, the various movables in the apartment? so that while all has the air
of negligence and chance, the seats are placed as if they had been transported by a wish to
the spot most suitable for accommodation; stiffness and confusion are at once avoided, the
company are neither limited to a formal circle of chairs, nor exposed to break their noses
over wandering stools; but the arrangements seem to correspond to what ought to be the tone
of the conversation, easy, without being confused, and regulated, without being constrained
or stiffened.

Then how can a clumsy male wit attempt the arrangement of all the chiffonerie, by which old
snuff-boxes, heads of canes, pomander boxes, lamer beads, and all the trash usually found in
the pigeon-holes of the bureaus of old-fashioned ladies, may be now brought into play, by throwing
them, carelessly grouped with other unconsidered trifles, such as are to be seen in the windows
of a pawnbroker's shop, upon a marble encognure, or a mosaic work-table, thereby turning to
advantage the trash and trinketry, which all the old maids or magpies, who have inhabited the
mansion for a century, have contrived to accumulate. With what admiration of the ingenuity
of the fair artist have I sometimes pried into these miscellaneous groups of pseudo-bijouterie,
and seen the great grandsire's thumb-ring couchant with the coral and bells of the first-born--and
the boatswain's whistle of some old naval uncle, or his silver tobacco-box, redolent of Oroonoko,
happily grouped with the mother's ivory comb-case, still odorous of musk, and with some virgin
aunt's tortoise-shell spectacle-case, and the eagle's talon of ebony, with which, in the days
of long and stiff stays, our grandmothers were wont to alleviate any little irritation in their
back or shoulders! Then there was the silver strainer, on which, in more economical times than
ours, the lady of the house placed the tea-leaves, after the very last drop had been exhausted,
that they might afterwards be hospitably divided among the company, to be eaten with sugar,
and with bread and butter. Blessings upon a fashion which has rescued from the claws of abigails,
and the melting-pot of the silversmith, those neglected cimelia, for the benefit of antiquaries
and the decoration of side-tables! But who shall presume to place them there, unless under
the direction of female taste? and of that Mr. Mowbray, though possessed of a large stock of
such treasures, was for the present entirely deprived.

This digression upon his difficulties is already too long, or I might mention the Laird's inexperience
in the art of making the worse appear the better garnishment, of hiding a darned carpet with
a new floor-cloth, and flinging an Indian shawl over a faded and threadbare sofa. But I have
said enough, and more than enough, to explain his dilemma to an unassisted bachelor, who, without
mother, sister, or cousin, without skilful housekeeper, or experienced clerk of the kitchen,
or valet of parts and figure, adventures to give an entertainment, and aspires to make it elegant
and comme il faut.

The sense of his insufficiency was the more vexatious to Mowbray, as he was aware he would
find sharp critics in the ladies, and particularly in his constant rival, Lady Penelope Penfeather.
He was, therefore, incessant in his exertions; and for two whole days ordered and disordered,
demanded, commanded, countermanded, and reprimanded, without pause or cessation. The companion,
for he could not be termed an assistant, of his labours, was his trusty agent, who trotted
from room to room after him, affording him exactly the same degree of sympathy which a dog
doth to his master when distressed in mind, by looking in his face from time to time with a
piteous gaze, as if to assure him that he partakes of his trouble, though he neither comprehends
the cause or the extent of it, nor has in the slightest degree the power to remove it.

At length when Mowbray had got some matters arranged to his mind, and abandoned a great many
which he would willingly have put in better order, he sat down to dinner upon the Wednesday
preceding the appointed day, with his worthy aide-de-camp, Mr. Meiklewham; and after bestowing
a few muttered curses upon the whole concern, and the fantastic old maid who had brought him
into the scrape, by begging an invitation, declared that all things might now go to the devil
their own way, for so sure as his name was John Mowbray, he would trouble himself no more about
them.

Keeping this doughty resolution, he sat down to dinner with his counsel learned in the law;
and speedily they dispatched the dish of chops which was set before them, and the better part
of the bottle of old port, which served for its menstruum.

"We are well enough now," said Mowbray, "though we have had none of their d----d kickshaws."

"A wamefou' is a wamefou'," said the writer, swabbing his greasy chops, "whether it be of the
barleymeal or the bran."

"A cart-horse thinks so," said Mowbray; "but we must do as others do, and gentlemen and ladies
are of a different opinion."

"The waur for themselves and the country baith, St. Ronan's--it's the jinketing and the jirbling
wi' tea and wi' trumpery that brings our nobles to nine-pence, and mony a het ha'-house to
a hired lodging in the Abbey."

The young gentleman paused for a few minutes--filled a bumper, and pushed the bottle to the
senior--then said abruptly, "Do you believe in luck, Mick?"

"In luck?" answered the attorney; "what do you mean by the question?"

"Why, because I believe in luck myself--in a good or bad run of luck at cards."

"You wad have mair luck the day, if you had never touched them," replied his confident.

"That is not the question now," said Mowbray; "but what I wonder at is the wretched chance
that has attended us miserable Lairds of St. Ronan's for more than a hundred years, that we
have always been getting worse in the world, and never better. Never has there been such a
backsliding generation, as the parson would say--half the country once belonged to my ancestors,
and now the last furrows of it seem to be flying."

"Fleeing!" said the writer, "they are barking and fleeing baith.--This Shaws-Castle here, I'se
warrant it flee up the chimney after the rest, were it not weel fastened down with your grandfather's
tailzie."

"Damn the tailzie!" said Mowbray; "if they had meant to keep up their estate, they should have
entailed it when it was worth keeping: to tie a man down to such an insignificant thing as
St. Ronan's, is like tethering a horse on six roods of a Highland moor."

"Ye have broke weel in on the mailing by your feus down at the Well," said Meiklewham, "and
raxed ower the tether maybe a wee bit farther than ye had ony right to do."

"It was by your advice, was it not?" said the Laird.

"I'se ne'er deny it, St. Ronan's," answered the writer; "but I am such a gude-natured guse,
that I just set about pleasing you as an auld wife pleases a bairn."

"Ay," said the man of pleasure, "when she reaches it a knife to cut its own fingers with.--These
acres would have been safe enough, if it had not been for your d----d advice."

"And yet you were grumbling e'en now," said the man of business, "that you have not the power
to gar the whole estate flee like a wild-duck across a bog? Troth, you need care little about
it; for if you have incurred an irritancy--and sae thinks Mr. Wisebehind, the advocate, upon
an A. B. memorial that I laid before him--your sister, or your sister's goodman, if she should
take the fancy to marry, might bring a declarator, and evict St. Ronan's frae ye in the course
of twa or three sessions."

"My sister will never marry," said John Mowbray.

"That's easily said," replied the writer; "but as broken a ship's come to land. If ony body
kend o' the chance she has o' the estate, there's mony a weel-doing man would think little
of the bee in her bonnet."

"Harkye, Mr. Meiklewham," said the Laird, "I will be obliged to you if you will speak of Miss
Mowbray with the respect due to her father's daughter, and my sister."

"Nae offence, St. Ronan's, nae offence," answered the man of law; "but ilka man maun speak
sae as to be understood,--that is, when he speaks about business. Ye ken yoursell, that Miss
Clara is no just like other folk; and were I you--it's my duty to speak plain--I wad e'en gie
in a bit scroll of a petition to the Lords, to be appointed Curator Bonis, in respect of her
incapacity to manage her own affairs."

"Meiklewham," said Mowbray, "you are a"----and then stopped short.

"What am I, Mr. Mowbray?" said Meiklewham, somewhat sternly--"What am I? I wad be glad to ken
what I am."

"A very good lawyer, I dare say," replied St. Ronan's, who was too much in the power of his
agent to give way to his first impulse. "But I must tell you, that rather than take such a
measure against poor Clara, as you recommend, I would give her up the estate, and become an
ostler or a postilion for the rest of my life."

"Ah, St. Ronan's," said the man of law, "if you had wished to keep up the auld house, you should
have taken another trade, than to become an ostler or a postilion. What ailed you, man, but
to have been a lawyer as weel as other folk? My auld Maister had a wee bit Latin about rerum
dominos gentemque togatam, whilk signified, he said, that all lairds should be lawyers."

"All lawyers are likely to become lairds, I think," replied Mowbray; "they purchase our acres
by the thousand, and pay us, according to the old story, with a multiplepoinding, as your learned
friends call it, Mr. Meiklewham."

"Weel--and mightna you have purchased as weel as other folk?"

"Not I," replied the Laird; "I have no turn for that service, I should only have wasted bombazine
on my shoulders, and flour upon my three-tailed wig--should but have lounged away my mornings
in the Outer-House, and my evenings at the play-house, and acquired no more law than what would
have made me a wise justice at a Small-debt Court."

"If you gained little, you would have lost as little," said Meiklewham; "and albeit ye were
nae great gun at the bar, ye might aye have gotten a Sheriffdom, or a Commissaryship, amang
the lave, to keep the banes green; and sae ye might have saved your estate from deteriorating,
if ye didna mend it muckle."

"Yes, but I could not have had the chance of doubling it, as I might have done," answered Mowbray,
"had that inconstant jade, Fortune, but stood a moment faithful to me. I tell you, Mick, that
I have been, within this twelvemonth, worth a hundred thousand--worth fifty thousand--worth
nothing, but the remnant of this wretched estate, which is too little to do one good while
it is mine, though, were it sold, I could start again, and mend my hand a little."

"Ay, ay, just fling the helve after the hatchet," said his legal adviser--"that's a' you think
of. What signifies winning a hundred thousand pounds, if you win them to lose them a' again?"

"What signifies it?" replied Mowbray. "Why, it signifies as much to a man of spirit, as having
won a battle signifies to a general--no matter that he is beaten afterwards in his turn, he
knows there is luck for him as well as others, and so he has spirit to try it again. Here is
the young Earl of Etherington will be amongst us in a day or two--they say he is up to every
thing--if I had but five hundred to begin with, I should be soon up to him."

"Mr. Mowbray," said Meiklewham, "I am sorry for ye. I have been your house's man-of-business--I
may say, in some measure, your house's servant--and now I am to see an end of it all, and just
by the lad that I thought maist likely to set it up again better than ever; for, to do ye justice,
you have aye had an ee to your ain interest, sae far as your lights gaed. It brings tears into
my auld een."

"Never weep for the matter, Mick," answered Mowbray; "some of it will stick, my old boy, in
your pockets, if not in mine--your service will not be altogether gratuitous, my old friend--the
labourer is worthy of his hire."

"Weel I wot is he," said the writer; "but double fees would hardly carry folk through some
wark. But if ye will have siller, ye maun have siller--but, I warrant, it goes just where the
rest gaed."

"No, by twenty devils!" exclaimed Mowbray, "to fail this time is impossible--Jack Wolverine
was too strong for Etherington at any thing he could name; and I can beat Wolverine from the
Land's-End to Johnnie Groat's--but there must be something to go upon--the blunt must be had,
Mick."

"Very likely--nae doubt--that is always provided it can be had," answered the legal adviser.

"That's your business, my old cock," said Mowbray. "This youngster will be here perhaps to-morrow,
with money in both pockets--he takes up his rents as he comes down, Mick--think of that, my
old friend."

"Weel for them that have rents to take up," said Meiklewham; "ours are lying rather ower low
to be lifted at present.--But are you sure this Earl is a man to mell with?--are you sure ye
can win of him, and that if you do, he can pay his losings, Mr. Mowbray?--because I have kend
mony are come for wool, and gang hame shorn; and though ye are a clever young gentleman, and
I am bound to suppose ye ken as much about life as most folk, and all that; yet some gate or
other ye have aye come off at the losing hand, as ye have ower much reason to ken this day--howbeit"----

"O, the devil take your gossip, my dear Mick! If you can give no help, spare drowning me with
your pother.--Why, man, I was a fresh hand--had my apprentice-fees to pay--and these are no
trifles, Mick.--But what of that?--I am free of the company now, and can trade on my own bottom."

"Aweel, aweel, I wish it may be sae," said Meiklewham.

"It will be so, and it shall be so, my trusty friend," replied Mowbray, cheerily, "so you will
but help me to the stock to trade with."

"The stock?--what d'ye ca' the stock? I ken nae stock that ye have left."

"But you have plenty, my old boy--Come, sell out a few of your three per cents; I will pay
difference--interest--exchange--every thing."

"Ay, ay--every thing or naething," answered Meiklewham; "but as you are sae very pressing,
I hae been thinking--Whan is the siller wanted?"

"This instant--this day--to-morrow at farthest!" exclaimed the proposed borrower.

"Wh--ew!" whistled the lawyer, with a long prolongation of the note; "the thing is impossible."

"It must be, Mick, for all that," answered Mr. Mowbray, who knew by experience that impossible,
when uttered by his accommodating friend in this tone, meant only, when interpreted, extremely
difficult, and very expensive.

"Then it must be by Miss Clara selling her stock, now that ye speak of stock," said Meiklewham;
"I wonder ye didna think of this before."

"I wish you had been dumb rather than that you had mentioned it now," said Mowbray, starting,
as if stung by an adder--"What, Clara's pittance!--the trifle my aunt left her for her own
fanciful expenses--her own little private store, that she puts to so many good purposes--Poor
Clara, that has so little!--And why not rather your own, Master Meiklewham, who call yourself
the friend and servant of our family?"

"Ay, St. Ronan's," answered Meiklewham, "that is a' very true--but service is nae inheritance;
and as for friendship, it begins at hame, as wise folk have said lang before our time. And
for that matter, I think they that are nearest sib should take maist risk. You are nearer and
dearer to your sister, St. Ronan's, than you are to poor Saunders Meiklewham, that hasna sae
muckle gentle blood as would supper up an hungry flea."

"I will not do this," said St. Ronan's, walking up and down with much agitation; for, selfish
as he was, he loved his sister, and loved her the more on account of those peculiarities which
rendered his protection indispensable to her comfortable existence--"I will not," he said,
"pillage her, come on't what will. I will rather go a volunteer to the continent, and die like
a gentleman."

He continued to pace the room in a moody silence, which began to disturb his companion, who
had not been hitherto accustomed to see his patron take matters so deeply. At length he made
an attempt to attract the attention of the silent and sullen ponderer.

"Mr. Mowbray"--no answer--"I was saying, St. Ronan's"--still no reply. "I have been thinking
about this matter--and"----

"And what, sir?" said St. Ronan's, stopping short, and speaking in a stern tone of voice.

"And, to speak truth, I see little feasibility in the matter ony way; for if ye had the siller
in your pocket to-day, it would be a' in the Earl of Etherington's the morn."

"Pshaw! you are a fool," answered Mowbray.

"That is not unlikely," said Meiklewham; "but so is Sir Bingo Binks, and yet he's had the better
of you, St. Ronan's, this twa or three times."

"It is false!--he has not," answered St. Ronan's, fiercely.

"Weel I wot," resumed Meiklewham, "he took you in about the saumon fish, and some other wager
ye lost to him this very day."

"I tell you once more, Meiklewham, you are a fool, and no more up to my trim than you are to
the longitude.--Bingo is got shy--I must give him a little line, that is all--then I shall
strike him to purpose--I am as sure of him as I am of the other--I know the fly they will both
rise to--this cursed want of five hundred will do me out of ten thousand!"

"If you are so certain of being the bangster--so very certain, I mean, of sweeping stakes,--what
harm will Miss Clara come to by your having the use of her siller? You can make it up to her
for the risk ten times told."

"And so I can, by Heaven!" said St. Ronan's. "Mick, you are right, and I am a scrupulous, chicken-hearted
fool. Clara shall have a thousand for her poor five hundred--she shall, by ----. And I will
carry her to Edinburgh for a season, or perhaps to London, and we will have the best advice
for her case, and the best company to divert her. And if they think her a little odd--why,
d---- me, I am her brother, and will bear her through it. Yes--yes--you're right; there can
be no hurt in borrowing five hundred of her for a few days, when such profit may be made on't,
both for her and me.--Here, fill the glasses, my old boy, and drink success to it, for you
are right."

"Here is success to it, with all my heart," answered Meiklewham, heartily glad to see his patron's
sanguine temper arrive at this desirable conclusion, and yet willing to hedge in his own credit;
"but it is you are right, and not me, for I advise nothing except on your assurances, that
you can make your ain of this English earl, and of this Sir Bingo--and if you can but do that,
I am sure it would be unwise and unkind in ony ane of your friends to stand in your light."

"True, Mick, true," answered Mowbray.--"And yet dice and cards are but bones and pasteboard,
and the best horse ever started may slip a shoulder before he get to the winning-post--and
so I wish Clara's venture had not been in such a bottom.--But, hang it, care killed a cat--I
can hedge as well as any one, if the odds turn up against me--so let us have the cash, Mick."

"Aha! but there go two words to that bargain--the stock stands in my name, and Tam Turnpenny
the banker's, as trustees for Miss Clara--Now, get you her letter to us, desiring us to sell
out and to pay you the proceeds, and Tam Turnpenny will let you have five hundred pounds instanter,
on the faith of the transaction; for I fancy you would desire a' the stock to be sold out,
and it will produce more than six hundred, or seven hundred pounds either--and I reckon you
will be selling out the whole--it's needless making twa bites of a cherry."

"True," answered Mowbray; "since we must be rogues, or something like it, let us make it worth
our while at least; so give me a form of the letter, and Clara shall copy it--that is, if she
consents; for you know she can keep her own opinion as well as any other woman in the world."

"And that," said Meiklewham, "is as the wind will keep its way, preach to it as ye like. But
if I might advise about Miss Clara--I wad say naething mair than that I was stressed for the
penny money; for I mistake her muckle if she would like to see you ganging to pitch and toss
wi' this lord and tither baronet for her aunt's three per cents--I ken she has some queer notions--she
gies away the feck of the dividends on that very stock in downright charity."

"And I am in hazard to rob the poor as well as my sister!" said Mowbray, filling once more
his own glass and his friend's. "Come, Mick, no sky-lights--here is Clara's health--she is
an angel--and I am--what I will not call myself, and suffer no other man to call me.--But I
shall win this time--I am sure I shall, since Clara's fortune depends upon it."

"Now, I think, on the other hand," said Meiklewham, "that if any thing should chance wrang,
(and Heaven kens that the best-laid schemes will gang ajee,) it will be a great comfort to
think that the ultimate losers will only be the poor folk, that have the parish between them
and absolute starvation--if your sister spent her ain siller, it would be a very different story."

"Hush, Mick--for God's sake, hush, mine honest friend," said Mowbray; "it is quite true; thou
art a rare counsellor in time of need, and hast as happy a manner of reconciling a man's conscience
with his necessities, as might set up a score of casuists; but beware, my most zealous counsellor
and confessor, how you drive the nail too far--I promise you some of the chaffing you are at
just now rather abates my pluck.--Well--give me your scroll--I will to Clara with it--though
I would rather meet the best shot in Britain, with ten paces of green sod betwixt us." So saying,
he left the apartment.

CHAPTER XI.

FRATERNAL LOVE.

    Nearest of blood should still be next in love;
    And when I see these happy children playing,
    While William gathers flowers for Ellen's ringlets,
    And Ellen dresses flies for William's angle,
    I scarce can think, that in advancing life,
    Coldness, unkindness, interest, or suspicion,
    Will e'er divide that unity so sacred,
    Which Nature bound at birth.

Anonymous.

When Mowbray had left his dangerous adviser, in order to steer the course which his agent had
indicated, without offering to recommend it, he went to the little parlour which his sister
was wont to term her own, and in which she spent great part of her time. It was fitted up with
a sort of fanciful neatness; and in its perfect arrangement and good order, formed a strong
contrast to the other apartments of the old and neglected mansion-house. A number of little
articles lay on the work-table, indicating the elegant, and, at the same time, the unsettled
turn of the inhabitant's mind. There were unfinished drawings, blotted music, needlework of
various kinds, and many other little female tasks; all undertaken with zeal, and so far prosecuted
with art and elegance, but all flung aside before any one of them was completed.

Clara herself sat upon a little low couch by the window, reading, or at least turning over
the leaves of a book, in which she seemed to read. But instantly starting up when she saw her
brother, she ran towards him with the most cordial cheerfulness.

"Welcome, welcome, my dear John; this is very kind of you to come to visit your recluse sister.
I have been trying to nail my eyes and my understanding to a stupid book here, because they
say too much thought is not quite good for me. But, either the man's dulness, or my want of
the power of attending, makes my eyes pass over the page, just as one seems to read in a dream,
without being able to comprehend one word of the matter. You shall talk to me, and that will
do better. What can I give you to show that you are welcome? I am afraid tea is all I have
to offer, and that you set too little store by."

"I shall be glad of a cup at present," said Mowbray, "for I wish to speak with you."

"Then Jessy shall make it ready instantly," said Miss Mowbray, ringing, and giving orders to
her waiting-maid--"but you must not be ungrateful, John, and plague me with any of the ceremonial
for your fête--'sufficient for the day is the evil thereof.' I will attend, and play my part
as prettily as you can desire; but to think of it beforehand, would make both my head and my
heart ache; and so I beg you will spare me on the subject."

"Why, you wild kitten," said Mowbray, "you turn every day more shy of human communication--we
shall have you take the woods one day, and become as savage as the Princess Caraboo. But I
will plague you about nothing if I can help it. If matters go not smooth on the great day,
they must e'en blame the dull thick head that had no fair lady to help him in his need. But,
Clara, I had something more material to say to you--something indeed of the last importance."

"What is it?" said Clara, in a tone of voice approaching to a scream--"in the name of God,
what is it? You know not how you terrify me!"

"Nay, you start at a shadow, Clara," answered her brother. "It is no such uncommon matter neither--good
faith, it is the most common distress in the world, so far as I know the world--I am sorely
pinched for money."

"Is that all?" replied Clara, in a tone which seemed to her brother as much to underrate the
difficulty, when it was explained, as her fears had exaggerated it before she heard its nature.

"Is that all? Indeed it is all, and comprehends a great deal of vexation. I shall be hard run
unless I can get a certain sum of money--and I must e'en ask you if you can help me?"

"Help you?" replied Clara; "Yes, with all my heart--but you know my purse is a light one--more
than half of my last dividend is in it, however, and I am sure, John, I shall be happy if it
can serve you--especially as that will at least show that your wants are but small ones."

"Alas, Clara, if you would help me," said her brother, half repentant of his purpose, "you
must draw the neck of the goose which lays the golden eggs--you must lend me the whole stock."

"And why not, John," said the simple-hearted girl, "if it will do you a kindness? Are you not
my natural guardian? Are you not a kind one? And is not my little fortune entirely at your
disposal? You will, I am sure, do all for the best."

"I fear I may not," said Mowbray, starting from her, and more distressed by her sudden and
unsuspicious compliance, than he would have been by difficulties, or remonstrance. In the latter
case, he would have stifled the pangs of conscience amid the manoeuvres which he must have
resorted to for obtaining her acquiescence; as matters stood, there was all the difference
that there is between slaughtering a tame and unresisting animal, and pursuing wild game, until
the animation of the sportsman's exertions overcomes the internal sense of his own cruelty.[I-E]
The same idea occurred to Mowbray himself.

"By G--," he said, "this is like shooting the bird sitting.--Clara," he added, "I fear this
money will scarce be employed as you would wish."

"Employ it as you yourself please, my dearest brother," she replied, "and I will believe it
is all for the best."

"Nay, I am doing for the best," he replied; "at least, I am doing what must be done, for I
see no other way through it--so all you have to do is to copy this paper, and bid adieu to
bank dividends--for a little while at least. I trust soon to double this little matter for
you, if Fortune will but stand my friend."

"Do not trust to Fortune, John," said Clara, smiling, though with an expression of deep melancholy.
"Alas! she has never been a friend to our family--not at least for many a day."

"She favours the bold, say my old grammatical exercises," answered her brother; "and I must
trust her, were she as changeable as a weathercock.--And yet--if she should jilt me!--What
will you do--what will you say, Clara, if I am unable, contrary to my hope, trust, and expectation,
to repay you this money within a short time?"

"Do?" replied Clara; "I must do without it, you know; and for saying, I will not say a word."

"True," replied Mowbray, "but your little expenses--your charities--your halt and blind--your
round of paupers?"

"Well, I can manage all that too. Look you here, John, how many half-worked trifles there are.
The needle or the pencil is the resource of all distressed heroines, you know; and I promise
you, though I have been a little idle and unsettled of late, yet, when I do set about it, no
Emmeline or Ethelinde of them all ever sent such loads of trumpery to market as I shall, or
made such wealth as I will do. I dare say Lady Penelope, and all the gentry at the Well, will
purchase, and will raffle, and do all sort of things to encourage the pensive performer. I
will send them such lots of landscapes with sap-green trees, and mazareen-blue rivers, and
portraits that will terrify the originals themselves--and handkerchiefs and turbans, with needlework
scallopped exactly like the walks on the Belvidere--Why, I shall become a little fortune in
the first season."

"No, Clara," said John, gravely, for a virtuous resolution had gained the upperhand in his
bosom, while his sister ran on in this manner,--"We will do something better than all this.
If this kind help of yours does not fetch me through, I am determined I will cut the whole
concern. It is but standing a laugh or two, and hearing a gay fellow say, D---- me, Jack, are
you turned clodhopper at last?--that is the worst. Dogs, horses, and all, shall go to the hammer;
we will keep nothing but your pony, and I will trust to a pair of excellent legs. There is
enough left of the old acres to keep us in the way you like best, and that I will learn to
like. I will work in the garden, and work in the forest, mark my own trees, and cut them myself,
keep my own accounts, and send Saunders Meiklewham to the devil."

"That last is the best resolution of all, John," said Clara; "and if such a day should come
round, I should be the happiest of living creatures--I should not have a grief left in the
world--if I had, you should never see or hear of it--it should lie here," she said, pressing
her hand on her bosom, "buried as deep as a funereal urn in a cold sepulchre. Oh! could we
not begin such a life to-morrow? If it is absolutely necessary that this trifle of money should
be got rid of first, throw it into the river, and think you have lost it amongst gamblers and
horse-jockeys."

Clara's eyes, which she fondly fixed on her brother's face, glowed through the tears which
her enthusiasm called into them, while she thus addressed him. Mowbray, on his part, kept his
looks fixed on the ground, with a flush on his cheek, that expressed at once false pride and
real shame.

At length he looked up:--"My dear girl," he said, "how foolishly you talk, and how foolishly
I, that have twenty things to do, stand here listening to you! All will go smooth on my plan--if
it should not, we have yours in reserve, and I swear to you I will adopt it. The trifle which
this letter of yours enables me to command, may have luck in it, and we must not throw up the
cards while we have a chance of the game.--Were I to cut from this moment, these few hundreds
would make us little better or little worse--so you see we have two strings to our bow. Luck
is sometimes against me, that is true--but upon true principle, and playing on the square,
I can manage the best of them, or my name is not Mowbray. Adieu, my dearest Clara." So saying,
he kissed her cheek with a more than usual degree of affection.

Ere he could raise himself from his stooping posture, she threw her arm kindly over his neck,
and said with a tone of the deepest interest, "My dearest brother, your slightest wish has
been, and ever shall be, a law to me--Oh! if you would but grant me one request in return!"

"What is it, you silly girl?" said Mowbray, gently disengaging himself from her hold.--"What
is it you can have to ask that needs such a solemn preface?--Remember, I hate prefaces; and
when I happen to open a book, always skip them."

"Without preface, then, my dearest brother, will you, for my sake, avoid those quarrels in
which the people yonder are eternally engaged? I never go down there but I hear of some new
brawl; and I never lay my head down to sleep, but I dream that you are the victim of it. Even
last night"----

"Nay, Clara, if you begin to tell your dreams, we shall never have done. Sleeping, to be sure,
is the most serious employment of your life--for as to eating, you hardly match a sparrow;
but I entreat you to sleep without dreaming, or to keep your visions to yourself.--Why do you
keep such fast hold of me?--What on earth can you be afraid of?--Surely you do not think the
blockhead Binks, or any other of the good folks below yonder, dared to turn on me? Egad, I
wish they would pluck up a little mettle, that I might have an excuse for drilling them. Gad,
I would soon teach them to follow at heel."

"No, John," replied his sister; "it is not of such men as these that I have any fear--and yet,
cowards are sometimes driven to desperation, and become more dangerous than better men--but
it is not such as these that I fear. But there are men in the world whose qualities are beyond
their seeming--whose spirit and courage lie hidden, like metals in the mine, under an unmarked
or a plain exterior.--You may meet with such--you are rash and headlong, and apt to exercise
your wit without always weighing consequences, and thus"----

"On my word, Clara," answered Mowbray, "you are in a most sermonizing humour this morning!
the parson himself could not have been more logical or profound. You have only to divide your
discourse into heads, and garnish it with conclusions for use, and conclusions for doctrine,
and it might be preached before a whole presbytery, with every chance of instruction and edification.
But I am a man of the world, my little Clara; and though I wish to go in death's way as little
as possible, I must not fear the raw-head and bloody-bones neither.--And who the devil is to
put the question to me?--I must know that, Clara, for you have some especial person in your
eye when you bid me take care of quarrelling."

Clara could not become paler than was her usual complexion; but her voice faltered as she eagerly
assured her brother, that she had no particular person in her thoughts.

"Clara," said her brother, "do you remember, when there was a report of a bogle[I-17] in the
upper orchard, when we were both children?--Do you remember how you were perpetually telling
me to take care of the bogle, and keep away from its haunts?--And do you remember my going
on purpose to detect the bogle, finding the cow-boy, with a shirt about him, busied in pulling
pears, and treating him to a handsome drubbing?--I am the same Jack Mowbray still, as ready
to face danger, and unmask imposition; and your fears, Clara, will only make me watch more
closely, till I find out the real object of them. If you warn me of quarrelling with some one,
it must be because you know some one who is not unlikely to quarrel with me. You are a flighty
and fanciful girl, but you have sense enough not to trouble either yourself or me on a point
of honour, save when there is some good reason for it."

Clara once more protested, and it was with the deepest anxiety to be believed, that what she
had said arose only out of the general consequences which she apprehended from the line of
conduct her brother had adopted, and which, in her apprehension, was so likely to engage him
in the broils that divided the good company at the Spring. Mowbray listened to her explanation
with an air of doubt, or rather incredulity, sipped a cup of tea which had for some time been
placed before him, and at length replied, "Well, Clara, whether I am right or wrong in my guess,
it would be cruel to torment you any more, remembering what you have just done for me. But
do justice to your brother, and believe, that when you have any thing to ask of him, an explicit
declaration of your wishes will answer your purpose much better than any ingenious oblique
attempts to influence me. Give up all thoughts of such, my dear Clara--you are but a poor manoeuvrer,
but were you the very Machiavel of your sex, you should not turn the flank of John Mowbray."

He left the room as he spoke, and did not return, though his sister twice called upon him.
It is true that she uttered the word brother so faintly, that perhaps the sound did not reach
his ears.--"He is gone," she said, "and I have had no power to speak out! I am like the wretched
creatures, who, it is said, lie under a potent charm, that prevents them alike from shedding
tears and from confessing their crimes--Yes, there is a spell on this unhappy heart, and either
that must be dissolved, or this must break."

FOOTNOTE:

[I-17] Bogle--in English, Goblin.

CHAPTER XII.

THE CHALLENGE.

    A slight note I have about me, for the delivery of which you must
    excuse me. It is an office which friendship calls upon me to do, and
    no way offensive to you, as I desire nothing but right on both
    sides.

King and No King.

The intelligent reader may recollect, that Tyrrel departed from the Fox Hotel on terms not
altogether so friendly towards the company as those under which he entered it. Indeed, it occurred
to him, that he might probably have heard something farther on the subject, though, amidst
matters of deeper and more anxious consideration, the idea only passed hastily through his
mind; and two days having gone over without any message from Sir Bingo Binks, the whole affair
glided entirely out of his memory.

The truth was, that although never old woman took more trouble to collect and blow up with
her bellows the embers of her decayed fire, than Captain MacTurk kindly underwent for the purpose
of puffing into a flame the dying sparkles of the Baronet's courage; yet two days were spent
in fruitless conferences before he could attain the desired point. He found Sir Bingo on these
different occasions in all sorts of different moods of mind, and disposed to view the thing
in all shades of light, except what the Captain thought was the true one.--He was in a drunken
humour--in a sullen humour--in a thoughtless and vilipending humour--in every humour but a
fighting one. And when Captain MacTurk talked of the reputation of the company at the Well,
Sir Bingo pretended to take offence, said the company might go to the devil, and hinted that
he "did them sufficient honour by gracing them with his countenance, but did not mean to constitute
them any judges of his affairs. The fellow was a raff, and he would have nothing to do with him."

Captain MacTurk would willingly have taken measures against the Baronet himself, as in a state
of contumacy, but was opposed by Winterblossom and other members of the committee, who considered
Sir Bingo as too important and illustrious a member of their society to be rashly expelled
from a place not honoured by the residence of many persons of rank; and finally insisted that
nothing should be done in the matter without the advice of Mowbray, whose preparations for
his solemn festival on the following Thursday had so much occupied him, that he had not lately
appeared at the Well.

In the meanwhile, the gallant Captain seemed to experience as much distress of mind, as if
some stain had lain on his own most unblemished of reputations. He went up and down upon the
points of his toes, rising up on his instep with a jerk which at once expressed vexation and
defiance--He carried his nose turned up in the air, like that of a pig when he snuffs the approaching
storm--He spoke in monosyllables when he spoke at all; and--what perhaps illustrated in the
strongest manner the depth of his feelings--he refused, in face of the whole company, to pledge
Sir Bingo in a glass of the Baronet's peculiar cogniac.

At length, the whole Well was alarmed by the report brought by a smart outrider, that the young
Earl of Etherington, reported to be rising on the horizon of fashion as a star of the first
magnitude, intended to pass an hour, or a day, or a week, as it might happen, (for his lordship
could not be supposed to know his own mind,) at St. Ronan's Well.

This suddenly put all in motion. Almanacks were opened to ascertain his lordship's age, enquiries
were made concerning the extent of his fortune, his habits were quoted, his tastes were guessed
at; and all that the ingenuity of the Managing Committee could devise was resorted to, in order
to recommend their Spa to this favourite of fortune. An express was dispatched to Shaws-Castle
with the agreeable intelligence, which fired the train of hope that led to Mowbray's appropriation
of his sister's capital. He did not, however, think proper to obey the summons to the Spring;
for, not being aware in what light the Earl might regard the worthies there assembled, he did
not desire to be found by his lordship in any strict connexion with them.

Sir Bingo Binks was in a different situation. The bravery with which he had endured the censure
of the place began to give way, when he considered that a person of such distinction as that
which public opinion attached to Lord Etherington, should find him bodily indeed at St. Ronan's,
but, so far as society was concerned, on the road towards the ancient city of Coventry; and
his banishment thither, incurred by that most unpardonable offence in modern morality, a solecism
in the code of honour. 

But no longer experience sudden chill that went down to the plants.

Medrano did call and he rehearsed his strange situation, Beatriz contempt,
coldness Don Alonso and what he had to tell her page.

The squire paled suddenly and, stroking his beard, said:

- Love child,
water basket - after raising the front: - Could it be some mischief
Franco Ringer?

Ramiro, thinking it could refer the matter of the Moors, shook his head. Continuous act like
a man determined to undo the knot so soon tired, he clothed himself with the doublet suede
and girded his sword to give him Eagle Don Rodrigo. Then, stripping the leaf pressed with
both hands on his chest lining, to pray in that guise long prayer.

Persignose finish with the handle, and by running along the steel indefinable look, envainolo
again in silence.

Everything was agreed. Medrano was ordered to haunt the house of Beatrice. I wanted to know what
was happening, moment by moment, as if it was true what the ticket. The in turn would to wait
by the Puerta de San Vicente, and would Pablillo email.

It was past eleven o'clock when Ramiro and his valet left the city, taking, to the left, the road
that runs outside, at the Lunch at the foot of the walls. The boy was walking ahead with the
air clear and happy, and although he had the stomach more hollow than a drummer, his instinct
peeped some whiff of adventure that was to he often livelihood. His master was not a man of
many memorials, and if the other was presented with music under the
windows of the lady, would secure a fight worthy of the streets of
Salamanca.

He, in turn, believed to have the best legs of the kingdom, and, unless will blind you suddenly
making him enter his head in the belly of a guitar, had happened some time, banks of the Tormes,
was secure in his person.

The morning was fresh and radiant. Pablillo felt his blood boil of life, burning of dance, wild
urge to stomp the ground and throw to the winds long sharp songs that bounce in the hills. Spring
wheat provided to the undulating sheen of silk, green and silver chasuble over the puce of
terroir! The sun sparkled on the mica from the rocks, at the gate of the plows in the river, pretending
like a light shower in the distance, on the Villatoro saws. Everything seemed imbued with clarity
and freshness of morning, to the tolling of bells, the sound of the
anvils, and the song of the weavers and tinkers in the Moorish suburb
of Santiago.

Some women burned at the foot of the hill piles of litter and a rustic scent, better than the
incense, the outline deliciously perfumed.

Ramiro recalled without wanting his love to the Saracen.

When he had come to the Puerta de San Vicente, the page who said to wait at that site, while
he would stand against the North wall.

He spent the afternoon without Ramiro would receive notice. At about five in the afternoon, Pablillo
came to inform you that Don Alonso had just left his house in a deck chair, and that as he had
told an old servant, that gentleman, after some time, spent the night
in the convent of Santo Tomas.

The later died. Ramiro sat on a rock, his face almost hidden by the brim of his felt. The purplish
soil at his feet seemed to ripple under the vibration of the dark hallucinatory.

From time to time, the young nobleman raised his head and looked lost
on the boundary, indifferent to the magic of the sky and the seductions
of the landscape, but picking up in the soul, an instinctive way,
the vigor of the place of sublime passion and violence.

The sun, before hiding, dying with his glory exalted gold of the sky.

The pupils Ramiro widened.

Desolate melancholy suddenly bathed the roughness of the wall awesome. Ramiro imagined that towers
are succeeding to the same space as the paternoster of the rosary,
which included the battlements Hail Marys, and the Cathedral, with
its projection dome, the hole filled with relics crucifix saints and
knights.

When Pablillo resubmitted without any notice, his master told him that he would pray to the caves
of San Vicente, and proceeded, in effect, to lie at the feet of the Virgin the Soterraña.

Approaching the Basilica dipped his hand in his pocket and pulled out the rosary of fifteen mysteries
that he had offered his first preceptor Fray Antonio de Jesus.

It was an old Rosary Holy Land, whose accounts, made of camel bone, were strung on strong and
tight white silk cord.

"Always carry the rope to strangle the hell" said Franciscan Tell
them to offer it.

The church was lonely and dark. A silver lamp burning in the chapel. Mysterious ever it seemed
strange monument now the gold and blue of the Martyrs. He descended into the crypt. The miraculous
image was surrounded by burning candles.

Two women, breasts pitches in ground, wailing into a corner, completely
covered by their cloaks, suggesting two huge bats dying.

Fervently prayed the fifteen mysteries, and when he thought that the shadow he would walk the
streets without being recognized, addressed to the city, entering it through the next door and going
to stand a few steps from the house of Beatrice.

She waited a long time.

Suddenly a man Rozol package and passed. Something was reached after
a round.

A bracket came by shaking it back and forward across the smoky lantern barred. That light shone
crudely the faces of the ministers.

Pedro Ramiro recognized the sheriff Ronco by imposing facade. The eyebrows and mustache seemed
drawn to a brand on his skin color tallow.

Authoritarian noise of feet and the swords were away.

Escuchose then a voice:

- Lord! My lord!

Was Pablillo.

He said that, a moment before, a masked man was standing in front of the house Don Alonso, and that
Medrano was sending time with this news, there was a new masked which, approaching the first questioned
him harshly. And seemed to go hands when happened to pass the round. Using masks and leaning abate
the fire at the faces, the Sheriff Peter Ronco two brothers recognized
the San Vicente, ordering with fierce threats the second son to go
away to the point, if you do not want to end up in jail.

The mayorazgo withdrew also, but, as the squire, would soon return to the same place.

Ramiro was to be placed on the nearest corner. Medrano he encountered, he said and the page to leave
him alone.

The moon was leaning over the rising, then began to outline the wall
on that side their triangular turrets.

Over an hour passed, his eyes Ramiro's house Beatriz.

It seemed at times the flap of the door half opened and closed.

Suddenly a woman's body appeared through the opening. White singular touch and bulk denounced
Mrs. Alvarez. Each Once pulled out most of the bust, gaining confidence.

Finally, hissed quietly, very quietly, several times.

Nobody answered. The shutter remained closed.

When Ramiro Gonzalo began to think that perhaps would not occur that night, saw him coming along
the street, the figure of a man who went to stop at the house Beatrice,
at the foot of the windows.

Ramiro drew his sword, and grasping of the blade above the water, stepped forward, speedily, touching
the wall darker. It was Gonzalo! Although his face was covered by black taffeta reconociole, at first,
by the white feather, subject to the cap with a beautiful ornament
of diamonds, Cinderella and the layer carrying also nights spent at
the gambling house.

While the young ruler was going to hit the door with his knuckles,
Ramiro, running to him, asiole arm in the air.

Then, squeezing hard on the face mask, eventually tear it with furious tug. San Vicente drew
in turn, and saying, "Kill him!" fell on his opponent. But it was waiting already stretched steel.

Gonzalo
stopped, and angrily waving his sword, shouted back:

- Ask for forgiveness of the treacherous.

- You to me, villain, for
your slanders diminished.

- Then the dog Moorish Die! - San Vicente
screamed again.

- Speak more softly, Mr. Alderman, lest you help
pay the round.

- Have not necessary.

- Well, look, if you please,
somewhere further away, the buzz of the swords do not poke someone
thinking it owns the gold of your bag.

- We go where you please.

The two sheathed, and Ramiro took the narrow lane, in the direction
of east, towards a lonely place within the walls, he had observed
in one of his walks.

Gonzalo going to the left, and his gray coat looked like a silver fabric between the uncertain
clear night.

Arrivals who were at an old gate, Ramiro stopped and tried to violate the lock. Gonzalo helped
with my shoulder. Finally, after a vain struggle, agreed to climb together the wall. Gonzalo put
his foot on the thigh of Ramiro and when he had climbed, stretched
from hand up to his rival, helping each other as on the challenges
of chivalrous books and as they did Amadis Rugero or Esplandián, with
its brave courtesy.

It was an abandoned quarry.

The rock, forming a single mass in the form of choline, did not allow any house up on its stone
caparacho, as old as the world.

The wall stood right, embattled, sullen, solemn and formidable shadow covered.

Stopping at the flattest place, the two young men knocked down their coats. Gonzalo also threw
the shield away from him that had hung from his belt. The sky, all Tented, transparent clouds, spread
over the quiet city with a mysterious light of dawn. Towards the
rising, pearly halo surrounding the hidden pearl of the moon.

Steels crossed.

Gonzalo masterfully blows stopped, awaiting the moment. Ramiro, in turn, displayed a flamboyant
fencing and soldiers, with turnstiles fantastic, and his mouth slightly open for the lust murderer,
leaving teeth glittered.

San Vicente, despite his skill he felt cruel hesitation to that mask, confidence, any force,
any courage, and finally, fearing that her heart faltered, made a false and Ramiro sent it to a right end and
swift as a dart. The weapon pierced through and through the doublet from the side, scraping the
flesh. Ramiro then lit by a spark of instinct, took two big steps forward, to allow trapped
in the leather leaf the opponent, and took his own sword, as one who stands a dagger blow
clavósela of the chest. Then he plunged it fiercely through the bodice,
all whole, all, all, to the hawks.

Gonzalo said:

- It is done!

And, casting a wave by mouth blackish desplomose.

His arms and legs shook for a moment, and his head and lifeless, bent, lay side on the stone.

When
looking at the plants spread to her lifeless body of his rival, Ramiro submitted a short prayer
Our Lady of the Soterraña. He avenged! The source of pride now shed all enjoy your body a huge
and brave. Stand in the breeze felt like a cockscomb, feather in his hat, and experienced
on the heels a strange sense of invincible power. Had wanted to launch, with all their voice,
to the moon, the battle cry of their elders.

Assaulted by a sudden thought, he ducked into the body, and undoing
the laces, took between the jacket and the bloody shirt a ticket without
overwritten.

Unfolded. Clarity was weak, but looking to the sky, observed that the moon was going to happen
very soon after crack in the clouds. Shortly after his eyes read the following words:

"Please your worship come tonight after eleven. First hit three times
and then two, very quietly, in the wicket.

I'll open. Cross the yard and garden and climb the tower of the wall. My lady will then talk to your worship.

"Your
faithful servant, Alvarez."

Tomos forehead with both hands, was possible! Is it true that Beatrice? ... Is there not some
trick everything infamous mistress? It was easy to know. He held his meditation, and, instantly,
with nervous haste, changed his black hat cap Gonzalo.

Then dragging the body to the edge of a cavity than black at the
bottom of the walls, with empujolo standing stoutly for rolled to
the bottom.

Then, collecting the clear layer of dead embozose with it, making
it a mess that pushed him under the arm.

As he prepared to jump back over the wall, he saw two faces looming behind dark. Was a thrill. Medrano
and Pablillo were, they had witnessed from there all scene. Falling into the street, the squire
received him on his chest, exclaiming:

- Famous thrust, vote for
Christ!

Flee, flee quickly, lest the round again.

Ramiro ordenoles this time to rule that they would wait for the sun, and layer them and hat, stood
up resolutely to the home of Beatrice.

Arrived at the door, said on the floor the black mask Gonzalo holding it with promptly put it
in his face.

Hit three times and then another two with his knuckles. The cloth layer gave off sissy perfume.
His spirit began to wander. Saw and stopped several times to see a pillow Aixa adorned with
gold thread and precious stones. Noted that the door contained nails heads of lions. Called again.
Too much emotion you drunk.

Finally, the bolt wicket creaked slightly and entreabriose; Dona Alvarez looked out, and after
having observed a moment, he whispered:

- Good news, Don Gonzalo!

Then, opening the shutter completely and shaking his hand impatiently:

- Presto, presto - added; - cross your grace the yard and garden, and climb the tower.

When Ramiro was found at the top of the cube, from whose platform was being seen sunset child,
accompanied by the dwarf, leaned his back against the battlements
and began to wait.

Incomprehensible apathy flooded him: unconsciousness, a vague emotion,
comparable to early intoxication.

His meditating without understanding why.

The freshness of the night doeth smile.

Down deep, undulating hillocks with gloomy color of steel. The convent of the Incarnation with
her sad pale walls, poppy at night its holy calm.

Dim light floated on the abode of purity and passion, as if its walls enclose some miraculous
garden lilies. Low clouds, cracked like icebergs, covered the sky,
leaving transparent that fearful ashy light favorable to all spells.
The roosters crowed at times as if you started the aurora. Beat a
dog so grim at the foot of the wall.

Suddenly, on the stairs was
heard rustling silk dresses.

Ramiro stood.

Covered with a dark veil,
a woman had appeared on the tower, his hand, gloved gracefully struck
her veil. The pale complexion Beatriz then shone with whiteness marble,
and lustrous hair, girded by a ring of gold, taken at night peacock
bluish dark armor. Two locks were detached from others, which vibrate
in the air twice snake.

Wide silver braid bedrooms sapphire skirt,
while the fabric of my jacket disappeared under accounts and beads,
height of wavelet trinket like water constantly restless. The girl
lifted her face with narrowed eyes, remaining motionless for a moment.
Its smooth lips seemed to suck the light coming down from heaven.

Ramiro
felt like mad before this apparition. His whole being was not an abrupt
frenzy, a flame that reaches out to devour the veil soon. Beatrice
was standing before him, his Beatrice, his wife, deified by the magic
of the night and silence. Forgot your suspicion; forget the role of
Mrs. Alvarez and the recent drama; forgot like a drunkard, as an insane,
wearing the clothes of another man, forgot the mask that hid his face,
and it seemed that, after a hopeless dream, was last with her beloved
husband and lord, on the enchanted castle tower. Asiola walked toward
her and gently. Beatriz resisted weakly on his lip, wet, shivering
a little light blue, a drop of moon!

It was at first a perfect kiss,
almost disembodied, taken with the breath, in the stillness, in the
high on the dream of the city and land, but at first, the contact
undecided over to awaken the senses, and their mouths were bound,
tightly clenched under the male furor. Beatriz moaned unable to dodge,
while Ramiro was running for his superhuman body delight. In order
to achieve the longed, the dream touch! It was the kiss, the kiss
of Beatrice so many times imagined! But suddenly, in the midst of
this crazy transportation, a lightning reason shone in his brain.
Reality just hit you suddenly. It was awful. With still quivering
mouth on the face of the girl, suddenly thought he was with the layer
and the touch of the dead man wearing a mask over his face, that Beatriz
believed found in the arms of Gonzalo, and, finally, that the kiss
was the kiss of another, the triumph of another, supreme caress intended
for another lip, another man!

At that moment the girl, lifting her
face, exclaimed with passion:

- Ah, Gonzalo, how happy you make me!

She
placed her mouth again insatiable.

Ramiro gives flight was full of
dementia. His whole being gritted which igneous sheet the swordsmith
suddenly immersed in water. She felt that her mind spinning into a
vortex of darkness, and heard in his brain the barking of the dark
powers of revenge, not seeing but one idea, one need only one justice:
the destruction, death!

It took, however, unable to resist the new
kiss of Beatriz, returning that caress with a savage bite. As a bon vivant, he hated trouble of any kind, and the shrewd selfishness
of his disposition enabled him to foresee, that a good deal might accrue to all concerned in
the course of this business. He, therefore, coolly replied, that he knew nothing of Mr. Tyrrel--not
even whether he was a gentleman or not; and besides, he had received no regular application
in his behalf--he did not, therefore, feel himself at all inclined to go to the field as his
second. This refusal drove the poor Captain to despair. He conjured his friend to be more public-spirited,
and entreated him to consider the reputation of the Well, which was to them as a common country,
and the honour of the company to which they both belonged, and of which Mr. Winterblossom was
in a manner the proper representative, as being, with consent of all, the perpetual president.
He reminded him how many quarrels had been nightly undertaken and departed from on the ensuing
morning, without any suitable consequences--said, "that people began to talk of the place oddly;
and that, for his own part, he found his own honour so nearly touched, that he had begun to
think he himself would be obliged to bring somebody or other to account, for the general credit
of the Well; and now, just when the most beautiful occasion had arisen to put every thing on
a handsome footing, it was hard--it was cruel--it was most unjustifiable--in Mr. Winterblossom,
to decline so simple a matter as was requested of him."

Dry and taciturn as the Captain was on all ordinary occasions, he proved, on the present, eloquent
and almost pathetic; for the tears came into his eyes when he recounted the various quarrels
which had become addled, notwithstanding his best endeavours to hatch them into an honourable
meeting; and here was one, at length, just chipping the shell, like to be smothered, for want
of the most ordinary concession on the part of Winterblossom. In short, that gentleman could
not hold out any longer. "It was," he said, "a very foolish business, he thought; but to oblige
Sir Bingo and Captain MacTurk, he had no objection to walk with them about noon as far as the
Buck-stane, although he must observe the day was hazy, and he had felt a prophetic twinge or
two, which looked like a visit of his old acquaintance podagra."

"Never mind that, my excellent friend," said the Captain, "a sup out of Sir Bingo's flask is
like enough to put that to rights; and by my soul, it is not the thing he is like to leave
behind him on this sort of occasion, unless I be far mistaken in my man."

"But," said Winterblossom, "although I comply with your wishes thus far, Captain MacTurk, I
by no means undertake for certain to back this same Master Tyrrel, of whom I know nothing at
all, but only agree to go to the place in hopes of preventing mischief."

"Never fash your beard about that, Mr. Winterblossom," replied the Captain; "for a little mischief,
as you call it, is become a thing absolutely necessary to the credit of the place; and I am
sure, whatever be the consequences, they cannot in the present instance be very fatal to any
body; for here is a young fellow that, if he should have a misfortune, nobody will miss, for
nobody knows him; then there is Sir Bingo, whom every body knows so well, that they will miss
him all the less."

"And there will be Lady Bingo, a wealthy and handsome young widow," said Winterblossom, throwing
his hat upon his head with the grace and pretension of former days, and sighing to see, as
he looked in the mirror, how much time, that had whitened his hair, rounded his stomach, wrinkled
his brow, and bent down his shoulders, had disqualified him, as he expressed it, "for entering
for such a plate."

Secure of Winterblossom, the Captain's next anxiety was to obtain the presence of Dr. Quackleben,
who, although he wrote himself M.D., did not by any means decline practice as a surgeon, when
any job offered for which he was likely to be well paid, as was warranted in the present instance,
the wealthy baronet being a party principally concerned. The Doctor, therefore, like the eagle
scenting the carnage, seized, at the first word, the huge volume of morocco leather which formed
his case of portable instruments, and uncoiled before the Captain, with ostentatious display,
its formidable and glittering contents, upon which he began to lecture as upon a copious and
interesting text, until the man of war thought it necessary to give him a word of caution.

"Och," says he, "I do pray you, Doctor, to carry that packet of yours under the breast of your
coat, or in your pocket, or somewhere out of sight, and by no means to produce or open it before
the parties. For although scalpels, and tourniquets, and pincers, and the like, are very ingenious
implements, and pretty to behold, and are also useful when time and occasion call for them,
yet I have known the sight of them take away a man's fighting stomach, and so lose their owner
a job, Dr. Quackleben."

"By my faith, Captain MacTurk," said the Doctor, "you speak as if you were graduated!--I have
known these treacherous articles play their master many a cursed trick. The very sight of my
forceps, without the least effort on my part, once cured an inveterate toothache of three days'
duration, prevented the extraction of a carious molendinar, which it was the very end of their
formation to achieve, and sent me home minus a guinea.--But hand me that great-coat, Captain,
and we will place the instruments in ambuscade, until they are called into action in due time.
I should think something will happen--Sir Bingo is a sure shot at a moorcock."

"Cannot say," replied MacTurk; "I have known the pistol shake many a hand that held the fowlingpiece
fast enough. Yonder Tyrrel looks like a teevilish cool customer--I watched him the whole time
I was delivering my errand, and I can promise you he is mettle to the backbone."

"Well--I will have my bandages ready secundum artem," replied the man of medicine. "We must
guard against hæmorrhage--Sir Bingo is a plethoric subject.--One o'clock, you say--at the Buck-stane--I
will be punctual."

"Will you not walk with us?" said Captain MacTurk, who seemed willing to keep his whole convoy
together on this occasion, lest, peradventure, any of them had fled from under his patronage.

"No," replied the Doctor, "I must first make an apology to worthy Mrs. Blower, for I had promised
her my arm down to the river-side, where they are all to eat a kettle of fish."

"By Cot! and I hope we shall make them a prettier kettle of fish than was ever seen at St.
Ronan's," said the Captain, rubbing his hands.

"Don't say we, Captain," replied the cautious Doctor; "I for one have nothing to do with the
meeting--wash my hands of it. No, no, I cannot afford to be clapt up as accessory.--You ask
me to meet you at the Buck-stane--no purpose assigned--I am willing to oblige my worthy friend,
Captain MacTurk--walk that way, thinking of nothing particular--hear the report of pistols--hasten
to the spot--fortunately just in time to prevent the most fatal consequences--chance most opportunely
to have my case of instruments with me--indeed, generally walk with them about me--nunquam
non paratus--then give my professional definition of the wound and state of the patient. That
is the way to give evidence, Captain, before sheriffs, coroners, and such sort of folk--never
commit one's self--it is a rule of our profession."

"Well, well, Doctor," answered the Captain, "you know your own ways best; and so you are but
there to give a chance of help in case of accident, all the laws of honour will be fully complied
with. But it would be a foul reflection upon me, as a man of honour, if I did not take care
that there should be somebody to come in thirdsman between Death and my principal."

At the awful hour of one afternoon, there arrived upon the appointed spot Captain MacTurk,
leading to the field the valorous Sir Bingo, not exactly straining like a greyhound in the
slips, but rather looking moody like a butcher's bull-dog, which knows he must fight since
his master bids him. Yet the Baronet showed no outward flinching or abatement of courage, excepting,
that the tune of Jenny Sutton, which he had whistled without intermission since he left the
Hotel, had, during the last half mile of their walk, sunk into silence; although, to look at
the muscles of the mouth, projection of the lip, and vacancy of the eye, it seemed as if the
notes were still passing through his mind, and that he whistled Jenny Sutton in his imagination.
Mr. Winterblossom came two minutes after this happy pair, and the Doctor was equally punctual.

"Upon my soul," said the former, "this is a mighty silly affair, Sir Bingo, and might, I think,
be easily taken up, at less risk to all parties than a meeting of this kind. You should recollect,
Sir Bingo, that you have much depending upon your life--you are a married man, Sir Bingo."

Sir Bingo turned the quid in his mouth, and squirted out the juice in a most coachman-like manner.

"Mr. Winterblossom," said the Captain, "Sir Bingo has in this matter put himself in my hands,
and unless you think yourself more able to direct his course than I am, I must frankly tell
you, that I will be disobliged by your interference. You may speak to your own friend as much
as you please; and if you find yourself authorized to make any proposal, I shall be desirous
to lend an ear to it on the part of my worthy principal, Sir Bingo. But I will be plain with
you, that I do not greatly approve of settlements upon the field, though I hope I am a quiet
and peaceable man. But here is our honour to be looked after in the first place; and moreover,
I must insist that every proposal for accommodation shall originate with your party or yourself."

"My party?" answered Winterblossom; "why really, though I came hither at your request, Captain
MacTurk, yet I must see more of the matter, ere I can fairly pronounce myself second to a man
I never saw but once."

"And, perhaps, may never see again," said the Doctor, looking at his watch; "for it is ten
minutes past the hour, and here is no Mr. Tyrrel."

"Hey! what's that you say, Doctor?" said the Baronet, awakened from his apathy.

"He speaks tamned nonsense," said the Captain, pulling out a huge, old-fashioned, turnip-shaped
implement, with a blackened silver dial-plate. "It is not above three minutes after one by
the true time, and I will uphold Mr. Tyrrel to be a man of his word--never saw a man take a
thing more coolly."

"Not more coolly than he takes his walk this way," said the Doctor; "for the hour is as I tell
you--remember, I am professional--have pulses to count by the second and half-second--my timepiece
must go as true as the sun."

"And I have mounted guard a thousand times by my watch," said the Captain; "and I defy the
devil to say that Hector MacTurk did not always discharge his duty to the twentieth part of
the fraction of a second--it was my great grandmother, Lady Killbracklin's, and I will maintain
its reputation against any timepiece that ever went upon wheels."

"Well, then, look at your own watch, Captain," said Winterblossom, "for time stands still with
no man, and while we speak the hour advances. On my word, I think this Mr. Tyrrel intends to
humbug us."

"Hey! what's that you say?" said Sir Bingo, once more starting from his sullen reverie.

"I shall not look at my watch upon no such matter," said the Captain; "nor will I any way be
disposed to doubt your friend's honour, Mr. Winterblossom."

"My friend?" said Mr. Winterblossom; "I must tell you once more, Captain, that this Mr. Tyrrel
is no friend of mine--none in the world. He is your friend, Captain MacTurk; and I own, if
he keeps us waiting much longer on this occasion, I will be apt to consider his friendship
as of very little value."

"And how dare you, then, say that the man is my friend?" said the Captain, knitting his brows
in a most formidable manner.

"Pooh! pooh! Captain," answered Winterblossom, coolly, if not contemptuously--"keep all that
for silly boys; I have lived in the world too long either to provoke quarrels, or to care about
them. So, reserve your fire; it is all thrown away on such an old cock as I am. But I really
wish we knew whether this fellow means to come--twenty minutes past the hour--I think it is
odds that you are bilked, Sir Bingo?"

"Bilked! hey!" cried Sir Bingo; "by Gad, I always thought so--I wagered with Mowbray he was
a raff--I am had, by Gad. I'll wait no longer than the half hour, by Gad, were he a field-marshal."

"You will be directed in that matter by your friend, if you please, Sir Bingo," said the Captain.

"D---- me if I will," returned the Baronet--"Friend? a pretty friend, to bring me out here
on such a fool's errand! I knew the fellow was a raff--but I never thought you, with all your
chaff about honour, such a d----d spoon as to bring a message from a fellow who has fled the pit!"

"If you regret so much having come here to no purpose," said the Captain, in a very lofty tone,
"and if you think I have used you like a spoon, as you say, I will have no objection in life
to take Mr. Tyrrel's place, and serve your occasion, my boy!"

"By ----! and if you like it, you may fire away, and welcome," said Sir Bingo; "and I'll spin
a crown for first shot, for I do not understand being brought here for nothing, d---- me!"

"And there was never man alive so ready as I am to give you something to stay your stomach,"
said the irritable Highlander.

"Oh fie, gentlemen! fie, fie, fie!" exclaimed the pacific Mr. Winterblossom--"For shame, Captain--Out
upon you, Sir Bingo, are you mad?--what, principal and second!--the like was never heard of--never."

The parties were in some degree recalled to their more cool recollections by this expostulation,
yet continued a short quarter-deck walk to and fro, upon parallel lines, looking at each other
sullenly as they passed, and bristling like two dogs who have a mind to quarrel, yet hesitate
to commence hostilities. During this promenade, also, the perpendicular and erect carriage
of the veteran, rising on his toes at every step, formed a whimsical contrast with the heavy
loutish shuffle of the bulky Baronet, who had, by dint of practice, very nearly attained that
most enviable of all carriages, the gait of a shambling Yorkshire ostler. His coarse spirit
was now thoroughly kindled, and like iron, or any other baser metal, which is slow in receiving
heat, it retained long the smouldering and angry spirit of resentment that had originally brought
him to the place, and now rendered him willing to wreak his uncomfortable feelings upon the
nearest object which occurred, since the first purpose of his coming thither was frustrated.
In his own phrase, his pluck was up, and finding himself in a fighting humour, he thought it
a pity, like Bob Acres, that so much good courage should be thrown away. As, however, that
courage after all consisted chiefly in ill humour; and as, in the demeanour of the Captain,
he read nothing deferential or deprecatory of his wrath, he began to listen with more attention
to the arguments of Mr. Winterblossom, who entreated them not to sully, by private quarrel,
the honour they had that day so happily acquired without either blood or risk.

"It was now," he said, "three quarters of an hour past the time appointed for this person,
who calls himself Tyrrel, to meet Sir Bingo Binks. Now, instead of standing squabbling here,
which serves no purpose, I propose we should reduce to writing the circumstances which attend
this affair, for the satisfaction of the company at the Well, and that the memorandum shall
be regularly attested by our subscriptions; after which, I shall farther humbly propose that
it be subjected to the revision of the Committee of Management."

"I object to any revision of a statement to which my name shall be appended," said the Captain.

"Right--very true, Captain," said the complaisant Mr. Winterblossom; "undoubtedly you know
best, and your signature is completely sufficient to authenticate this transaction--however,
as it is the most important which has occurred since the Spring was established, I propose
we shall all sign the procès-verbal, as I may term it."

"Leave me out, if you please," said the Doctor, not much satisfied that both the original quarrel
and the by-battle had passed over without any occasion for the offices of a Machaon; "leave
me out, if you please; for it does not become me to be ostensibly concerned in any proceedings,
which have had for their object a breach of the peace. And for the importance of waiting here
for an hour, in a fine afternoon, it is my opinion there was a more important service done
to the Well of St. Ronan's, when I, Quentin Quackleben, M.D., cured Lady Penelope Penfeather
of her seventh attack upon the nerves, attended with febrile symptoms."

"No disparagement to your skill at all, Doctor," said Mr. Winterblossom; "but I conceive the
lesson which this fellow has received will be a great means to prevent improper persons from
appearing at the Spring hereafter; and, for my part, I shall move that no one be invited to
dine at the table in future, till his name is regularly entered as a member of the company,
in the lists at the public room. And I hope both Sir Bingo and the Captain will receive the
thanks of the company, for their spirited conduct in expelling the intruder.--Sir Bingo, will
you allow me to apply to your flask--a little twinge I feel, owing to the dampness of the grass."

Sir Bingo, soothed by the consequence he had acquired, readily imparted to the invalid a thimbleful
of his cordial, which, we believe, had been prepared by some cunning chemist in the wilds of
Glenlivat. He then filled a bumper, and extended it towards the veteran, as an unequivocal
symptom of reconciliation. The real turbinacious flavour no sooner reached the nose of the
Captain, than the beverage was turned down his throat with symptoms of most unequivocal applause.

"I shall have some hope of the young fellows of this day," he said, "now that they begin to
give up their Dutch and French distilled waters, and stick to genuine Highland ware. By Cot,
it is the only liquor fit for a gentleman to drink in a morning, if he can have the good fortune
to come by it, you see."

"Or after dinner either, Captain," said the Doctor, to whom the glass had passed in rotation;
"it is worth all the wines in France for flavour, and more cordial to the system besides."

"And now," said the Captain, "that we may not go off the ground with any thing on our stomachs
worse than the whisky, I can afford to say, (as Captain Hector MacTurk's character is tolerably
well established,) that I am sorry for the little difference that has occurred betwixt me and
my worthy friend, Sir Bingo, here."

"And since you are so civil, Captain," said Sir Bingo, "why, I am sorry too--only it would
put the devil out of temper to lose so fine a fishing day--wind south--fine air on the pool--water
settled from the flood--just in trim--and I dare say three pairs of hooks have passed over
my cast before this time!"

He closed this elaborate lamentation with a libation of the same cordial which he had imparted
to his companions; and they returned in a body to the Hotel, where the transactions of the
morning were soon afterwards announced to the company, by the following program:--

    STATEMENT.

    "Sir Bingo Binks, baronet, having found himself aggrieved by the
    uncivil behaviour of an individual calling himself Francis Tyrrel,
    now or lately a resident at the Cleikum Inn, Aultoun of St. Ronan's;
    and having empowered Captain Hector MacTurk to wait upon the said
    Mr. Tyrrel to demand an apology, under the alternative of personal
    satisfaction, according to the laws of honour and the practice of
    gentlemen, the said Tyrrel voluntarily engaged to meet the said Sir
    Bingo Binks, baronet, at the Buck-stane, near St. Ronan's Burn, upon
    this present day, being Wednesday ---- August. In consequence of
    which appointment, we, the undersigned, did attend at the place
    named, from one o'clock till two, without seeing or hearing any
    thing whatever of the said Francis Tyrrel, or any one in his
    behalf--which fact we make thus publicly known, that all men, and
    particularly the distinguished company assembled at the Fox Hotel,
    may be duly apprized of the character and behaviour of the said
    Francis Tyrrel, in case of his again presuming to intrude himself
    into the society of persons of honour.

    "The Fox Inn and Hotel, St. Ronan's Well--August 18--.

    (Signed)
    "BINGO BINKS,
    HECTOR MACTURK,
    PHILIP WINTERBLOSSOM."

A little lower followed this separate attestation:

    "I, Quentin Quackleben, M.D., F.R.S., D.E., B.L., X.Z., &c. &c.,
    being called upon to attest what I know in the said matter, do
    hereby verify, that being by accident at the Buck-stane, near St.
    Ronan's Burn, on this present day, at the hour of one afternoon, and
    chancing to remain there for the space of nearly an hour, conversing
    with Sir Bingo Binks, Captain MacTurk, and Mr. Winterblossom, we did
    not, during that time, see or hear any thing of or from the person
    calling himself Francis Tyrrel, whose presence at that place seemed
    to be expected by the gentlemen I have just named."

This affiche was dated like the former, and certified under the august hand of Quentin Quackleben,
M.D., &c. &c. &c.

Again, and prefaced by the averment that an improper person had been lately introduced into
the company of St. Ronan's Well, there came forth a legislative enactment, on the part of the
Committee, declaring, "that no one shall in future be invited to the dinners, or balls, or
other entertainments of the Well, until their names shall be regularly entered in the books
kept for the purpose at the rooms." Lastly, there was a vote of thanks to Sir Bingo Binks and
Captain MacTurk for their spirited conduct, and the pains which they had taken to exclude an
improper person from the company at St. Ronan's Well.

These annunciations speedily became the magnet of the day. All idlers crowded to peruse them;
and it would be endless to notice the "God bless me's"--the "Lord have a care of us"--the "Saw
you ever the like's" of gossips, any more than the "Dear me's" and "Oh, laa's" of the titupping
misses, and the oaths of the pantalooned or buck-skin'd beaux. The character of Sir Bingo rose
like the stocks at the news of a dispatch from the Duke of Wellington, and, what was extraordinary,
attained some consequence even in the estimation of his lady. All shook their heads at the
recollection of the unlucky Tyrrel, and found out much in his manner and address which convinced
them that he was but an adventurer and swindler. A few, however, less partial to the Committee
of Management, (for whenever there is an administration, there will soon arise an opposition,)
whispered among themselves, that, to give the fellow his due, the man, be he what he would,
had only come among them, like the devil, when he was called for; and honest Dame Blower blessed
herself when she heard of such bloodthirsty doings as had been intended, and "thanked God that
honest Doctor Kickherben had come to nae harm amang a' their nonsense."

CHAPTER XIV.

THE CONSULTATION.

     Clown. I hope here be proofs.--

Measure for Measure.

The borough of ---- lies, as all the world knows, about fourteen miles distant from St. Ronan's,
being the county town of that shire, which, as described in the Tourist's Guide, numbers among
its objects of interest that gay and popular watering-place, whose fame, no doubt, will be
greatly enhanced by the present annals of its earlier history. As it is at present unnecessary
to be more particular concerning the scene of our story, we will fill up the blank left in
the first name with the fictitious appellation of Marchthorn, having often found ourselves
embarrassed in the course of a story, by the occurrence of an ugly hiatus, which we cannot
always at first sight fill up, with the proper reference to the rest of the narrative.

Marchthorn, then, was an old-fashioned Scottish town, the street of which, on market-day, showed
a reasonable number of stout great-coated yeomen, bartering or dealing for the various commodities
of their farms; and on other days of the week, only a few forlorn burghers, crawling about
like half-awakened flies, and watching the town steeple till the happy sound of twelve strokes
from Time's oracle should tell them it was time to take their meridian dram. The narrow windows
of the shops intimated very imperfectly the miscellaneous contents of the interior, where every
merchant, as the shopkeepers of Marchthorn were termed, more Scotico, sold every thing that
could be thought of. As for manufactures, there were none, except that of the careful Town-Council,
who were mightily busied in preparing the warp and woof, which, at the end of every five or
six years, the town of Marchthorn contributed, for the purpose of weaving the fourth or fifth
part of a member of Parliament.

In such a town, it usually happens, that the Sheriff-clerk, especially supposing him agent
for several lairds of the higher order, is possessed of one of the best-looking houses; and
such was that of Mr. Bindloose. None of the smartness of the brick-built and brass-hammered
mansion of a southern attorney appeared indeed in this mansion, which was a tall, thin, grim-looking
building, in the centre of the town, with narrow windows and projecting gables, notched into
that sort of descent, called crow-steps, and having the lower casements defended by stancheons
of iron; for Mr. Bindloose, as frequently happens, kept a branch of one of the two national
banks, which had been lately established in the town of Marchthorn.

Towards the door of this tenement, there advanced slowly up the ancient, but empty streets
of this famous borough, a vehicle, which, had it appeared in Piccadilly, would have furnished
unremitted laughter for a week, and conversation for a twelvemonth. It was a two-wheeled vehicle,
which claimed none of the modern appellations of tilbury, tandem, dennet, or the like; but
aspired only to the humble name of that almost forgotten accommodation, a whiskey; or, according
to some authorities, a tim-whiskey. Green was, or had been, its original colour, and it was
placed sturdily and safely low upon its little old-fashioned wheels, which bore much less than
the usual proportion to the size of the carriage which they sustained. It had a calash head,
which had been pulled up, in consideration either to the dampness of the morning air, or to
the retiring delicacy of the fair form which, shrouded by leathern curtains, tenanted this
venerable specimen of antediluvian coach-building.

But, as this fair and modest dame noway aspired to the skill of a charioteer, the management
of a horse, which seemed as old as the carriage he drew, was in the exclusive charge of an
old fellow in a postilion's jacket, whose grey hairs escaped on each side of an old-fashioned
velvet jockey-cap, and whose left shoulder was so considerably elevated above his head, that
it seemed, as if, with little effort, his neck might have been tucked under his arm, like that
of a roasted grouse-cock. This gallant equerry was mounted on a steed as old as that which
toiled betwixt the shafts of the carriage, and which he guided by a leading rein. Goading one
animal with his single spur, and stimulating the other with his whip, he effected a reasonable
trot upon the causeway, which only terminated when the whiskey stopped at Mr. Bindloose's door--an
event of importance enough to excite the curiosity of the inhabitants of that and the neighbouring
houses. Wheels were laid aside, needles left sticking in the half-finished seams, and many
a nose, spectacled and unspectacled, was popped out of the adjoining windows, which had the
good fortune to command a view of Mr. Bindloose's front door. The faces of two or three giggling
clerks were visible at the barred casements of which we have spoken, much amused at the descent
of an old lady from this respectable carriage, whose dress and appearance might possibly have
been fashionable at the time when her equipage was new. A satin cardinal, lined with grey squirrels'
skin, and a black silk bonnet, trimmed with crape, were garments which did not now excite the
respect, which in their fresher days they had doubtless commanded. But there was that in the
features of the wearer, which would have commanded Mr. Bindloose's best regard, though it had
appeared in far worse attire; for he beheld the face of an ancient customer, who had always
paid her law expenses with the ready penny, and whose accompt with the bank was balanced by
a very respectable sum at her credit. It was, indeed, no other than our respected friend, Mrs.
Dods of the Cleikum Inn, St. Ronan's, Aultoun.

Now her arrival intimated matter of deep import. Meg was a person of all others most averse
to leave her home, where, in her own opinion at least, nothing went on well without her immediate
superintendence. Limited, therefore, as was her sphere, she remained fixed in the centre thereof;
and few as were her satellites, they were under the necessity of performing their revolutions
around her, while she herself continued stationary. Saturn, in fact, would be scarce more surprised
at a passing call from the Sun, than Mr. Bindloose at this unexpected visit of his old client.
In one breath he rebuked the inquisitive impertinence of his clerks, in another stimulated
his housekeeper, old Hannah--for Mr. Bindloose was a bluff bachelor--to get tea ready in the
green parlour; and while yet speaking, was at the side of the whiskey, unclasping the curtains,
rolling down the apron, and assisting his old friend to dismount.

"The japanned tea-caddie, Hannah--the best bohea--bid Tib kindle a spark of fire--the morning's
damp--Draw in the giggling faces of ye, ye d----d idle scoundrels, or laugh at your ain toom
pouches--it will be lang or your weeldoing fill them." This was spoken, as the honest lawyer
himself might have said, in transitu, the rest by the side of the carriage. "My stars, Mrs.
Dods, and is this really your ain sell, in propria persona?--Wha lookit for you at such a time
of day?--Anthony, how's a' wi' ye, Anthony?--so ye hae taen the road again, Anthony--help us
down wi' the apron, Anthony--that will do.--Lean on me, Mrs. Dods--help your mistress, Anthony--put
the horses in my stable--the lads will give you the key.--Come away, Mrs. Dods--I am blithe
to see you straight your legs on the causeway of our auld borough again--come in by, and we'll
see to get you some breakfast, for ye hae been asteer early this morning."

"I am a sair trouble to you, Mr. Bindloose," said the old lady, accepting the offer of his
arm, and accompanying him into the house; "I am e'en a sair trouble to you, but I could not
rest till I had your advice on something of moment."

"Happy will I be to serve you, my gude auld acquaintance," said the Clerk; "but sit you down--sit
you down--sit you down, Mrs. Dods--meat and mess never hindered wark. Ye are something overcome
wi' your travel--the spirit canna aye bear through the flesh, Mrs. Dods; ye should remember
that your life is a precious one, and ye should take care of your health, Mrs. Dods." The
pride and arrogance that inspired her, before his fall, the anger that causes him loss of his
honor, all he utters the words before and during the duel, and its terrible counterclaims to Margarita,
when it is already dying, this is all real and beautiful at the same time. Goethe in three or four
pages, set up a living, never erased from the mind of anyone. Frankly, Don Diego de Pastrana
is well under Valentin, to be individual and proper.
 But maybe you will be thinking
of setting your house in order, which is the act of a carefu' and of a Christian woman--O!
it's an awfu' thing to die intestate, if we had grace to consider it."

"Aweel, I daur say I'll consider that some day soon, Mr. Bindloose; but that's no my present
errand."

"Be it what it like, Mrs. Dods, ye are right heartily welcome here, and we have a' the day
to speak of the business in hand--festina lente, that is the true law language--hooly and fairly,
as one may say--ill treating of business with an empty stomach--and here comes your tea, and
I hope Hannah has made it to your taste."

Meg sipped her tea--confessed Hannah's skill in the mysteries of the Chinese herb--sipped again,
then tried to eat a bit of bread and butter, with very indifferent success; and notwithstanding
the lawyer's compliments to her good looks, seemed in reality, on the point of becoming ill.

"In the deil's name, what is the matter!" said the lawyer, too well read in a profession where
sharp observation is peculiarly necessary, to suffer these symptoms of agitation to escape
him. "Ay, dame? ye are taking this business of yours deeper to heart than ever I kend you take
ony thing. Ony o' your banded debtors failed, or like to fail? What then! cheer ye up--you
can afford a little loss, and it canna be ony great matter, or I would doubtless have heard of it."

"In troth, but it is a loss, Mr. Bindloose; and what say ye to the loss of a friend?" Prepared
in his mind the crucial phrase. He was determined to put their fate at the foot of that women.
He took a few steps toward the wall to regain his strength. A trim angle was bending inward
and he took it mechanically and made to give the fabric sharp socollada. Then came a very strange
fact: wrapped in a cloud of dust, unexpected, surprising, left hanging below the countless moths. It
was a veritable swarm frightened, undecided, gray butterflies, made as of land, which gave off
a fine sand by flying and they glowed for an instant, like a firefly, in the sunshine.

Many of those insects were to settle on the clothes of Beatriz, adhering to jacket and skirt
and covering her mantle.

Mr. Bindloose hastily arose to obey her commands, gave a cautionary glance into the Bank-office,
and saw that his idle apprentices were fast at their desks--turned the key upon them, as if
it were in a fit of absence, and then returned, not a little curious to know what could be
the matter with his old friend; and leaving off all further attempts to put cases, quietly
drew his chair near hers, and awaited her own time to make her communication.

"Mr. Bindloose," said she, "I am no sure that you may mind, about six or seven years ago, that
there were twa daft English callants, lodgers of mine, that had some trouble from auld St.
Ronan's about shooting on the Springwell-head muirs."

"I mind it as weel as yesterday, Mistress," said the Clerk; "by the same token you gave me
a note for my trouble, (which wasna worth speaking about,) and bade me no bring in a bill against
the puir bairns--ye had aye a kind heart, Mrs. Dods."

"Maybe, and maybe no, Mr. Bindloose--that is just as I find folk.--But concerning these lads,
they baith left the country, and, as I think, in some ill blude wi' ane another, and now the
auldest and the doucest of the twa came back again about a fortnight sin' syne, and has been
my guest ever since."

"Aweel, and I trust he is not at his auld tricks again, goodwife?" answered the Clerk. "I havena
sae muckle to say either wi' the new Sheriff or the Bench of Justices as I used to hae, Mrs.
Dods--and the Procurator-fiscal is very severe on poaching, being borne out by the new Association--few
of our auld friends of the Killnakelty are able to come to the sessions now, Mrs. Dods."

"The waur for the country, Mr. Bindloose," replied the old lady--"they were decent, considerate
men, that didna plague a puir herd callant muckle about a moorfowl or a mawkin, unless he turned
common fowler--Sir Robert Ringhorse used to say, the herd lads shot as mony gleds and pyots
as they did game.--But new lords new laws--naething but fine and imprisonment, and the game
no a feather the plentier. If I wad hae a brace or twa of birds in the house, as every body
looks for them after the twelfth--I ken what they are like to cost me--And what for no?--risk
maun be paid for.--There is John Pirner himsell, that has keepit the muir-side thirty year
in spite of a' the lairds in the country, shoots, he tells me, now-a-days, as if he felt a
rape about his neck." Margarita sings the beautiful song. In his room his head is spinning, following his soul, showing
that he is completely owned and completely overtaken by her friendship and love. He thinks he has
no will but Margarita's.

"Indeed is it no, Mr. Bindloose," said Meg; "but it is e'en about this unhappy callant that
I spoke to you about.--Ye maun ken I have cleiket a particular fancy to this lad, Francis Tirl--a
fancy that whiles surprises my very sell, Mr. Bindloose, only that there is nae sin in it."

"None--none in the world, Mrs. Dods," said the lawyer, thinking at the same time within his
own mind, "Oho! the mist begins to clear up--the young poacher has hit the mark, I see--winged
the old barren grey hen!--ay, ay,--a marriage-contract, no doubt--but I maun gie her line.--Ye
are a wise woman, Mrs. Dods," he continued aloud, "and can doubtless consider the chances and
the changes of human affairs."

"But I could never have considered what has befallen this puir lad, Mr. Bindloose," said Mrs.
Dods, "through the malice of wicked men.--He lived, then, at the Cleikum, as I tell you, for
mair than a fortnight, as quiet as a lamb on a lea-rig--a decenter lad never came within my
door--ate and drank eneugh for the gude of the house, and nae mair than was for his ain gude,
whether of body or soul--cleared his bills ilka Saturday at e'en, as regularly as Saturday
came round." Finally, in the
part referring to the German civil law, not only indicated the main changes made to it after the publication
of the encyclopedia, but the most important differences between the former and positive law.
 "But to see the malice
of men!--some of thae landloupers and gill-flirts down at the filthy puddle yonder, that they
ca' the Waal, had heard of this puir lad, and the bits of pictures that he made fashion of
drawing, and they maun cuitle him awa doun to the bottle, where mony a bonny story they had
clecked, Mr. Bindloose, baith of Mr. Tirl and of mysell."

"A Commissary Court business," said the writer, going off again upon a false scent. "I shall
trim their jackets for them, Mrs. Dods, if you can but bring tight evidence of the facts--I
will soon bring them to fine and palinode--I will make them repent meddling with your good name."

"My gude name! What the sorrow is the matter wi' my name, Mr. Bindloose?" said the irritable
client. "I think ye hae been at the wee cappie this morning, for as early as it is--My gude
name!--if ony body touched my gude name, I would neither fash counsel nor commissary--I wad
be down amang them, like a jer-falcon amang a wheen wild-geese, and the best amang them that
dared to say ony thing of Meg Dods by what was honest and civil, I wad sune see if her cockernonnie
was made of her ain hair or other folk's. My gude name, indeed!" One appeared sometimes appear behind the windows, sometimes, agreeing
in advance through Casilda, out of the city and went to sit on a ridge, front of the wall
that corresponded to his mansion, to see it hovering between turret and battlements.


"In one word, then, Clerk Bindloose, it is little short of--murder," said Meg, in a low tone,
as if the very utterance of the word startled her.

"Murder! murder, Mrs. Dods?--it cannot be--there is not a word of it in the Sheriff-office--the
Procurator-fiscal kens nothing of it--there could not be murder in the country, and me not
hear of it--for God's sake, take heed what you say, woman, and dinna get yourself into trouble."

"Mr. Bindloose, I can but speak according to my lights," said Mrs. Dods; "you are in a sense
a judge in Israel, at least you are one of the scribes having authority--and I tell you, with
a wae and bitter heart, that this puir callant of mine that was lodging in my house has been
murdered or kidnapped awa amang thae banditti folk down at the New Waal; and I'll have the
law put in force against them, if it should cost me a hundred pounds."

The Clerk stood much astonished at the nature of Meg's accusation, and the pertinacity with
which she seemed disposed to insist upon it. Instrus would say that barbarians have started
all carpets and outer, with pressure of plunder, and broke up the last tile Floor-to trample
the Carpet and take the furniture, leaving nothing but a table Florentine ivory inlaid ebony
and oak chair.

The block looks like a barn after selling the harvest, and the usual
smell of old age and closure is up even more intense this devastation.

However, the old portraits of the Eagle have been suspended from the
wall again.

Ramiro meditate. Double dark wrinkles his brow furrow.
His face is leaner, forehead paler, more aquiline nose, but his whole
person retains the usual trappings.and I have dreamed it, and
I will be at the bottom of it, or my name is not Meg Dods, and that I wad have them a' to reckon
on.--Ay, ay, that's right, Mr. Bindloose, tak out your pen and inkhorn, and let us set about
it to purpose."

With considerable difficulty, and at the expense of much cross-examination, Mr. Bindloose extracted
from his client a detailed account of the proceedings of the company at the Well towards Tyrrel,
so far as they were known to, or suspected by Meg, making notes, as the examination proceeded,
of what appeared to be matter of consequence. After a moment's consideration, he asked the
dame the very natural question, how she came to be acquainted with the material fact, that
a hostile appointment was made between Captain MacTurk and her lodger, when, according to her
own account, it was made intra parietes, and remotis testibus?

"Ay, but we victuallers ken weel eneugh what goes on in our ain houses," said Meg--"And what
for no?--If ye maun ken a' about it, I e'en listened through the keyhole of the door."

