"`My name is really Horace Walters, and I am the owner of an estate called Riverton Park in
my dear native country.  But I ruined myself by my mad love for gambling, and when my poor
wife died, and left me with Horace a baby, and my estate was become sadly encumbered, I resolved
at once that I would leave my native land, go over to Australia, live a life of hard work and
self-denial, and not come back again until, by the accumulated rents and by what I could earn,
I could make my property absolutely and honestly my own, and leave it unencumbered to my dear
child.  You have seen enough of me to know that I have some strength of will in my character;
and so, when I had made this resolution, I began immediately to carry it out.  Taking with
me our old nurse, whom I bound to secrecy, I came over to this colony, got employment, and
then went to the diggings.  There, by diligence, perseverance, and self-denial, I managed to
accumulate a large sum, which is safely deposited in the bank.  I had some thoughts of going
back at once to England; but on learning what had happened to Horace, and about your noble
and loving- care of him, I resolved to wait a while, and to get employment in your neighbourhood--at
any rate, for a time.  And that resolution I have never repented of; indeed, I have felt my
dear Horace's--ay, I will say our dear Horace's--position in your house such a privileged one,
that I have gladly delayed taking any further steps homeward, wishing to see him all that we
both could desire him to be before I let him know his real name and position.  You can easily
understand why I changed my name to Jackson.  I felt that I had brought shame and dishonour
on my own name in my native land and I resolved that in this distant country I would change
it for another, and not take it back again till I could do so with honour and credit to myself
and my child.'

"And then, dear friends, he told me how he blessed God for bringing himself to the knowledge
of his truth, and me for having been the instrument--an unworthy one indeed I was--of leading
him to that knowledge.  Of course, I told him what a privilege I felt it to have been permitted
to guide him to his Saviour; and I added that I would gladly do anything I could to show my
gratitude to him for having sacrificed himself to save my life.

"`You have done more than enough already,' was his reply; `and yet I will take you at your
word.  Horace knows nothing yet of his real name and prospects; I had made up my mind lately
that I would wait till he came of age to tell him.  And now I would ask you, dear friend, to
take Horace with you to England and see him settled in his property when I am gone, which will
be, I know, before very long.  I have ample means in the bank here to meet all expenses, and
will give you full power to act for me.  You will understand now why I did not wish Horace
to be a minister.  I think godly laymen are as much needed as godly clergymen; and, as he in
God's providence inherits an important property, I have a strong impression that he will be
more free to do his duty to his tenantry and his estate as a Christian country squire, than
he would be if he had taken upon himself the charge of a special sphere or parish at home or
abroad.  And my earnest wish and prayer is that he may soon, by his conduct as a Christian
landlord, blot out altogether the memory of his unworthy father.'

