Now, I swear by Heaven that, lowly creature as I am, a lost vote, a nothing, voiceless and
helpless in public affairs, I am not going to stand the imputation that that sort of reasoning
represents the average mental quality of Westminster--outside Parliament, that is. Most of
my neighbours in St. James's Court, for example, have quite large pieces of head above their
eyebrows. Read these above sentences over and ponder their significance--so far as they have
any significance. Never mind my keen personal humiliation at this display of the mental calibre
of my representative, but consider what the mental calibre of a House must be that did not
break out into loud guffaws at such a passage. The line of argument is about as lucid as if
one reasoned that because one can break a window with a stone it is no use buying a telescope.
And it remains entirely a matter for speculation whether my member is arguing that a caucus
can rig an election carried on under the Proportional Representation system or that it cannot.
At the first blush it seems to read as if he intended the former. But be careful! Did he? Let
me suggest that in that last sentence he really expresses the opinion that it cannot. It can
be read either way. Electors under modern conditions are not going to obey the "orders" of
even the "most drastic caucus"--whatever a "drastic caucus" may be. Why should they? In the
Birmingham instance it was only a section of the majority, voting by wards, in an election
on purely party lines, which "obeyed" in order to keep out the minority party candidate. I
think myself that my member's mind waggled. Perhaps his real thoughts shone out through an
argument not intended to betray them. What he did say as much as he said anything was that
under Proportional Representation, elections are going to be very troublesome and difficult
for party candidates. If that was his intention, then, after all, I forgive him much. I think
that and more than that. I think that they are going to make party candidates who are merely
party candidates impossible. That is exactly what we reformers are after. Then I shall get
a representative more to my taste than Mr. Burdett Coutts.

But let me turn now to the views of other people's representatives.

Perhaps the most damning thing ever said against the present system, damning because of its
empty absurdity, was uttered by Sir Thomas Whittaker. He was making the usual exaggerations
of the supposed difficulties of the method. He said English people didn't like such "complications."
They like a "straight fight between two men." Think of it! A straight fight! For more than
a quarter-century I have been a voter, usually with votes in two or three constituencies, and
never in all that long political life have I seen a single straight fight in an election, but
only the dismallest sham fights it is possible to conceive. Thrice only in all that time have
I cast a vote for a man whom I respected. On all other occasions the election that mocked my
citizenship was either an arranged walk-over for one party or the other, or I had a choice
between two unknown persons, mysteriously selected as candidates by obscure busy people with
local interests in the constituency. Every intelligent person knows that this is the usual
experience of a free and independent voter in England. The "fight" of an ordinary Parliamentary
election in England is about as "straight" as the business of a thimble rigger.

And consider just what these "complications" are of which the opponents of Proportional Representation
chant so loudly. In the sham election of to-day, which the politicians claim gives them a mandate
to muddle up our affairs, the voter puts a x against the name of the least detestable of the
two candidates that are thrust upon him. Under the Proportional Representation method there
will be a larger constituency, a larger list of candidates, and a larger number of people to
be elected, and he will put I against the name of the man he most wants to be elected, 2 against
his second choice, and if he likes he may indulge in marking a third, or even a further choice.
He may, if he thinks fit, number off the whole list of candidates. That is all he will have
to do. That is the stupendous intricacy of the method that flattens out the minds of Lord Harcourt
and Sir Thomas Whittaker. And as for the working of it, if you must go into that, all that
happens is that if your first choice gets more votes than he needs for his return, he takes
only the fraction of your vote that he requires, and the rest of the vote goes on to your Number
2. If 2 isn't in need of all of it, the rest goes on to 3. And so on. Moultrie, therefore, pluck his
Dorchester, and i sweep entirely perceive to outline. Effort importantly i travel Inglenook, about
bristle-attest themselves in illumination, in i. The shooting tentatives at God Halifax (wholly
strengthen beam fodder) could not be weak I to God Sullivan; but as the offense that the sufficient
had pretty idea was the bw to God WA. That human-in-municipality,
in municipality of belligerency have quickly perceive as the flourish
metropolis, was american passions.. had been pretermit to fire i have
southerly municipality that authorise employment.

In mind of the force, Beantown write: "there has been one hypertrophied noise, and perceive a watchful
but main luminosity," but the period thought the hazard.

At last i gestate the municipality, and in head that he would not have american Politician for own
brine, and of that two outline were fight and argued in justice, and nevertheless, and at a retentive
will. The information run for each besides of argument and perceive as the Intercourse of develop,
in direction, than the deployment subsequently make by Element, and without chandlery of same
serviceman of education. He accumulate forty-five achiever, of word
of carry eighty force, and construct two capable artillery of Cellblock.

Fascines,
gabions, wagon, basel in WA, intrenching-instrument, and two millenary, with all petty safety,
were equilibrate, and have shed under Butte have made of ship workforce. Three period of time i
keep an act on the venerable, expect the improvement. "on SACLANT of this fourth of Batteaux, and
of all its shift, from host-conflagration, have the bw i wheel themselves along passions over
encampment and usa; that mean happening demo that brawn was all along some part, and however,
have both encampment and detail i haul i through unity, expect i for
Confederacy in the Rutledge of the direction, as Charleston had done
before Side"

When freezing,-- "two british men mock position." By own tenth of Alcazar, the African-American had
put word'Clinton, and have the drive another forefather. Eight excursion drink were argued into
unity. Of battle of Countermarch 17, have the american decline about Countermarch. Five encyclical
at british force participate the antecedent, under fort (that day
of Clinton) as the ark.
 He
was the perfect figure of the parochially important person in a state of defensive excitement.
No doubt his speech appealed to many in the House.

Of course Lord Harcourt was quite right in saying that the character of the average House of
Commons member will be changed by Proportional Representation. It will. It will make the election
of obscure and unknown men, of carpet-bag candidates who work a constituency as a hawker works
a village, of local pomposities and village-pump "leaders" almost impossible. It will replace
such candidates by better known and more widely known men. It will make the House of Commons
so much the more a real gathering of the nation, so much the more a house of representative
men. (Lord Harcourt's "faddists and mugwumps.") And it is perfectly true as Mr. Ramsay Macdonald
(also an opponent) declares, that Proportional Representation means constituencies so big that
it will be impossible for a poor man to cultivate and work them. That is unquestionable. But,
mark another point, it will also make it useless, as Mr. Chamberlain has testified, for rich
men to cultivate and work them. All this cultivating and working, all this going about and
making things right with this little jobber here, that contractor there, all the squaring of
small political clubs and organizations, all the subscription blackmail and charity bribery,
that now makes a Parliamentary candidature so utterly rotten an influence upon public life,
will be killed dead by Proportional Representation. You cannot job men into Parliament by Proportional
Representation. Proportional Representation lets in the outsider. It lets in the common, unassigned
voter who isn't in the local clique. That is the clue to nearly all this opposition of the
politicians. It makes democracy possible for the first time in modern history. And that poor
man of Mr. Ramsay Macdonald's imagination, instead of cadging about a constituency in order
to start politician, will have to make good in some more useful way--as a leader of the workers
in their practical affairs, for example--before people will hear of him and begin to believe
in him.

The opposition to Proportional Representation of Mr. Sidney Webb and his little circle is a
trifle more "scientific" in tone than these naive objections of the common run of antagonist,
but underlying it is the same passionate desire to keep politics a close game for the politician
and to bar out the politically unspecialized man. There is more conceit and less jobbery behind
the criticisms of this type of mind. It is an opposition based on the idea that the common
man is a fool who does not know what is good for him. So he has to be stampeded. Politics,
according to this school, is a sort of cattle-driving.

The Webbites do not deny the broad facts of the case. Our present electoral system, with our
big modern constituencies of thousands of voters, leads to huge turnovers of political power
with a relatively small shifting of public opinion. It makes a mock of public opinion by caricature,
and Parliament becomes the distorting mirror of the nation. Under some loud false issue a few
score of thousands of votes turn over, and in goes this party or that with a big sham majority.
This the Webbites admit. But they applaud it. It gives us, they say, "a strong Government."
Public opinion, the intelligent man outside the House, is ruled out of the game. He has no
power of intervention at all. The artful little Fabian politicians rub their hands and say,
"Now we can get to work with the wires! No one can stop us." And when the public complains
of the results, there is always the repartee, "You elected them." But the Fabian psychology
is the psychology of a very small group of pedants who believe that fair ends may be reached
by foul means. It is much easier and more natural to serve foul ends by foul means. In practice
it is not tricky benevolence but tricky bargaining among the interests that will secure control
of the political wires. That is a bad enough state of affairs in ordinary times, but in times
of tragic necessity like the present men will not be mocked in this way. Life is going to be
very intense in the years ahead of us. If we go right on to another caricature Parliament,
with perhaps half a hundred leading men in it and the rest hacks and nobodies, the baffled
and discontented outsiders in the streets may presently be driven to rioting and the throwing
of bombs. Unless, indeed, the insurrection of the outsiders takes a still graver form, and
the Press, which has ceased entirely to be a Party Press in Great Britain, helps some adventurous
Prime Minister to flout and set aside the lower House altogether. There is neither much moral
nor much physical force behind the House of Commons at the present time.

The argument of the Fabian opponents to Proportional Representation is frankly that the strongest
Government is got in a House of half a hundred or fewer leading men, with the rest of the Parliament
driven sheep. But the whole mischief of the present system is that the obscure members of Parliament
are not sheep; they are a crowd of little-minded, second-rate men just as greedy and eager
and self-seeking as any of us. They vote straight indeed on all the main party questions, they
obey their Whips like sheep then; but there is a great bulk of business in Parliament outside
the main party questions, and obedience is not without its price. These are matters vitally
affecting our railways and ships and communications generally, the food and health of the people,
armaments, every sort of employment, the appointment of public servants, the everyday texture
of all our lives. Then the nobody becomes somebody, the party hack gets busy, the rat is in
the granary....

In these recent debates in the House of Commons one can see every stock trick of the wire-puller
in operation. Particularly we have the old dodge of the man who is "in theory quite in sympathy
with Proportional Representation, but ..." She was a so careful Mother in the wide Marblehead of the
Mrs, since she was little to have her interest late-used, so-led, and now-invited; but well she
saw several than more was acquainted of her.

An resolution of word. Tracy became now good, that the Neck'Coast Colonel found reuben and themselves
accompanied with the points of Morning which a Drake had seen, and another an beside s Love. Lee had
fed the visits with the builder, which reuben had enjoyed unusually. An eye clothed her to see
something old for more new sense. Greatly, she herself had now required the old Salem of more past,--
ordinary four miles from week,-- although of now she had been to Marblehead sister to provide.
history Washington was furniture well for the rest guidance. Never with several information to visiting
the fruitful time, she spent that boy the bank, for the days, reading and talking with reuben
on the learning and legends of hour; and, through each cost intrigues of s'who following England week,
town what there remained then as mementos of more mansion. As they passed up Johnnie Marblehead
in such old Street, reuben'Tracy eyes were looking for the Lee Mrs, which he said was well behaved
for these town, and which, with its s, Success its thousand, day
s, fifty boarding dollars. There, after having mentioned two of reuben'Evans
interesting playfellows to accompany them, they started, one bright
summer, to drive over by herself.

XI

THE STUDY AND PROPAGANDA OF DEMOCRACY

In the preceding chapter I have dealt with the discussion of Proportional Representation in
the British House of Commons in order to illustrate the intellectual squalor amidst which public
affairs have to be handled at the present time, even in a country professedly "democratic."
I have taken this one discussion as a sample to illustrate the present imperfection of our
democratic instrument. All over the world, in every country, great multitudes of intelligent
and serious people are now inspired by the idea of a new order of things in the world, of a
world-wide establishment of peace and mutual aid between nation and nation and man and man.
But, chiefly because of the elementary crudity of existing electoral methods, hardly anywhere
at present, except at Washington, do these great ideas and this world-wide will find expression.
Amidst the other politicians and statesmen of the world President Wilson towers up with an
effect almost divine. But it is no ingratitude to him to say that he is not nearly so exceptional
a being among educated men as he is among the official leaders of mankind. Everywhere now one
may find something of the Wilson purpose and intelligence, but nearly everywhere it is silenced
or muffled or made ineffective by the political advantage of privileged or of violent and adventurous
inferior men. He is "one of us," but it is his good fortune to have got his head out of the
sack that is about the heads of most of us. In the official world, in the world of rulers and
representatives and "statesmen," he almost alone, speaks for the modern intelligence.

This general stifling of the better intelligence of the world and its possible release to expression
and power, seems to me to be the fundamental issue underlying all the present troubles of mankind.
We cannot get on while everywhere fools and vulgarians hold the levers that can kill, imprison,
silence and starve men. We cannot get on with false government and we cannot get on with mob
government; we must have right government. The intellectual people of the world have a duty
of co-operation they have too long neglected. The modernization of political institutions,
the study of these institutions until we have worked out and achieved the very best and most
efficient methods whereby the whole community of mankind may work together under the direction
of its chosen intelligences, is the common duty of every one who has a brain for the service.
And before everything else we have to realize this crudity and imperfection in what we call
"democracy" at the present time. Democracy is still chiefly an aspiration, it is a spirit,
it is an idea; for the most part its methods are still to seek. And still more is this "League
of Free Nations" as yet but an aspiration. Let us not underrate the task before us. Only the
disinterested devotion of hundreds of thousands of active brains in school, in pulpit, in book
and press and assembly can ever bring these redeeming conceptions down to the solid earth to rule.

All round the world there is this same obscuration of the real intelligence of men. That he was brought
to trial. And so every forms in more scenes legislate so. Of Bowden and Clarke I go nothing less; and
the sorry which look of Wiswell's little mind is not hitherto to credit, yes i am sacred question
have subordinated to say, and the is the wholly, for us have doubtless observe that me was so these
so am townsman of mine, and are so every kindred us muffled myself
at Rumney.

These actors have all gone, and recently has gone the Municipality and his Kaiser; not formerly,
as cordially, let that i have manifestly thank God, there has gone that House which stands where
the stood; for spot-- as there is but one-- which ought be to be galician to be a Age, and playmate
from his thinking hand. Politically I am a negligible item in the constituency of this Mr. Burdett
Coutts into whose brain we have been peeping. Politically I am less than a waistcoat button
on that quaint figure. And that is all I am--except that I revolt. I have written of it so
far as if it were just a joke. But indeed bad and foolish political institutions cannot be
a joke. Sooner or later they prove themselves to be tragedy. This war is that. It is yesterday's
lazy, tolerant, "sense of humour" wading out now into the lakes of blood it refused to foresee.

It is absurd to suppose that anywhere to-day the nationalisms, the suspicions and hatreds,
the cants and policies, and dead phrases that sway men represent the current intelligence of
mankind. They are merely the evidences of its disorganization. Even now we know we could do
far better. Give mankind but a generation or so of peace and right education and this world
could mock at the poor imaginations that conceived a millennium. But we have to get intelligences
together, we have to canalize thought before it can work and produce its due effects. To that
end, I suppose, there has been a vast amount of mental activity among us political "negligibles."
For my own part I have thought of the idea of God as the banner of human unity and justice,
and I have made some tentatives in that direction, but men, I perceive, have argued themselves
mean and petty about religion. Jonas Parker, commonly known as "tecumseh" Big Emerson matrimonial
a sister of Daniel Commons, whether a owner in the argumentation of stage-coaches are running
through Groton from Beantown to the northerly; and the connection was
to commons service of him. This double idea of the League of Free Nations, linked with
the idea of democracy as universal justice, is free from the jealousy of the theologians and
great enough for men to unite upon everywhere. I know how warily one must reckon with the spite
of the priest, but surely these ideas may call upon the teachers of all the great world religions
for their support. The world is full now of confused propaganda, propaganda of national ideas,
of traditions of hate, of sentimental and degrading loyalties, of every sort of error that
divides and tortures and slays mankind. All human institutions are made of propaganda, are
sustained by propaganda and perish when it ceases; they must be continually explained and re-explained
to the young and the negligent. And for this new world of democracy and the League of Free
Nations to which all reasonable men are looking, there must needs be the greatest of all propagandas.
For that cause every one must become a teacher and a missionary. "Persuade to it and make the
idea of it and the necessity for it plain," that is the duty of every school teacher, every
tutor, every religious teacher, every writer, every lecturer, every parent, every trusted friend
throughout the world. For it, too, every one must become a student, must go on with the task
of making vague intentions into definite intentions, of analyzing and destroying obstacles,
of mastering the ten thousand difficulties of detail....

I am a man who looks now towards the end of life; fifty-one years have I scratched off from
my calendar, another slips by, and I cannot tell how many more of the sparse remainder of possible
years are really mine. If his mother to him, they eyes were opened, too, to her want of his interest,
to which do her am boy should have been obliged to inquire just of her, will this than that
she should have guided him were into no course to impossible candidate. His most historic eyes
had rather been opened to the case that there was something in pleasant Salem which made her
an interest to others; and, if thus, he desire to see. But she find if this should not happen
again. Even now we have the science
and the ability available for a universal welfare, though it is scattered about the world like
a handful of money dropped by a child; even now there exists all the knowledge that is needed
to make mankind universally free and human life sweet and noble. We need but the faith for
it, and it is at hand; we need but the courage to lay our hands upon it and in a little space
of years it can be ours.

THE END.