Mossgiel, to which the brothers now removed, taking with them their widowed mother, was a farm
of about one hundred and eighteen acres of cold clayey soil, close to the village of Mauchline.
The farm-house, having been originally the country house of their landlord, Mr. Gavin Hamilton,
was more commodious and comfortable than the home they had left. Here the brothers settled
down, determined to do all in their power to succeed. They made a fresh start in life, and
if hard work and rigid economy could have compelled success, they might now have looked to
the future with an assurance of comparative prosperity. Mr. Gavin Hamilton was a kind and generous
landlord, and the rent was only £90 a year; considerably lower than they had paid at Lochlea.

But misfortune seemed to pursue this family, and ruin to wait on their every undertaking. 'My
brother's allowance and mine was £7 per annum each, and during the whole time this family concern
lasted, which was four years, as well as during the preceding period at Lochlea, his expenses
never in any one year exceeded his slender income. His temperance and frugality were everything
that could be wished.'

Honest, however, as Burns's resolution was, it was not to be expected that he would--or, indeed,
could--give up the practice of poetry, or cease to indulge in dreams of after-greatness. Poetry,
as he has already told us, had become the spontaneous expression of his heart. It was his natural
speech. His thoughts appeared almost to demand poetry as their proper vehicle of expression,
and rhythmed into verse as inevitably as in chemistry certain solutions solidify in crystals.
Besides this, Burns was conscious of his abilities. He had measured himself with his fellows,
and knew his superiority. More than likely he had been measuring himself with the writers he
had studied, and found himself not inferior. The great misfortune of his life, as he confessed
himself, was never to have an aim. He had felt early some stirrings of ambition, but they were
like gropings of Homer's Cyclops round the walls of his cave. Now, however, we have come to
a period of his life when he certainly did have an aim, but necessity compelled him to renounce
it as soon as it was recognised. It was not a question of ploughing or poetry. There was no
alternative. However insidiously inclination might whisper of poetry, duty's voice called him
to the fields, and that voice he determined to obey. Reading farming books and calculating
crops is not a likely road to perfection in poetry. Yet, in spite of all noble resolution,
the voice of Poesy was sweet, and he could not shut his ears to it. He might sing a song to
himself, even though it were but to cheer him after the labours of the day, and he sang of
love in 'the genuine language of his heart.'

    'There's nought but care on every hand,
      In every hour that passes, O:
    What signifies the life o' man,
      An' 'twere na for the lasses, O?'

For song must come in spite of him. The caged lark sings, though its field be but a withered
sod, and the sky above it a square foot of green baize. Nor was his commonplace book neglected;
and in August we come upon an entry which shows that poetical aspirations were again possessing
him; this time not to be cast forth, either at the timorous voice of Prudence or the importunate
bidding of Poverty. Burns has calmly and critically taken stock--so to speak--of his literary
aptitudes and abilities, and recognised his fitness for a place in the ranks of Scotland's poets.

           *       *       *       *       *

    We'll gar our streams and burnies shine
                Up wi' the best!'

The dread of obscurity spoken of here was almost a weakness with Burns. We hear it like an
ever-recurring wail in his poems and letters. In the very next entry in his commonplace book,
after praising the old bards, and drawing a parallel between their sources of inspiration and
his own, he shudders to think that his fate may be such as theirs. 'Oh mortifying to a bard's
vanity, their very names are buried in the wreck of things that were!'

Close on the heels of these entries came troubles on the head of the luckless poet, troubles
more serious than bad seed and late harvests. During the summer of 1784, we know that he was
in bad health, and again subject to melancholy. His verses at this time are of a religious
cast, serious and sombre, the confession of fault, and the cry of repentance.

    'Thou know'st that Thou hast formèd me
      With passions wild and strong;
    And listening to their witching voice
      Has often led me wrong.'

Perhaps this is only the prelude to his verses to Rankine, written towards the close of the
year, and his poem, A Poet's Welcome. They must at least be all read together, if we are to
have any clear conception of the nature of Burns. It is not enough to select his Epistle to
Rankine, and speak of its unbecoming levity. This was the time when Burns was first subjected
to ecclesiastical discipline; and some of his biographers have tried to trace the origin of
that wonderful series of satires, written shortly afterwards, to the vengeful feelings engendered
in the poet by this degradation. But Burns's attack on the effete and corrupt ceremonials of
the Church was not a burst of personal rancour and bitterness. The attack came of something
far deeper and nobler, and was bound to be delivered sooner or later. His own personal experience,
and the experience of his worthy landlord, Gavin Hamilton, may have given the occasion, but
the cause of the attack was in the Church itself, and in Burns's inborn loathing of humbug,
hypocrisy, and cant.

Well was it the satires were written by so powerful a satirist, that the Church purged itself
of the evil thing and cleansed its ways. This, however, is an episode of such importance in
the life of Burns, and in the religious history of Scotland, as to require to be taken up carefully
and considered by itself.

CHAPTER III

THE SERIES OF SATIRES

Before we can clearly see and understand Burns's attitude to the Church, we must have studied
the nature of the man himself, and we must know something also of his religious training. It
will not be enough to select his series of satires, and, from a study of them alone, try to
make out the character of the man. His previous life must be known; the natural bent of his
mind apprehended, and once that is grasped, these satires will appeal to the heart and understanding
of the reader with a sense of naturalness and expectedness. They are as inevitable as his love
lyrics, and are read with the conviction that his merciless exposure of profanity masquerading
in the habiliments of religion, was part of the life-work and mission of this great poet. He
had been born, it is recognised, not only to sing the loves and joys and sorrows of his fellow
men and women, but to purge their lives of grossness, and their religion of the filth of hypocrisy
and cant. Let it be admitted, that he himself went 'a kennin wrang.' What argument is there?
We do not deny the divine mission of Samson because of Delilah. Surely that giant's life was
a wasted one, yet in his very death he was true to his mission, and fulfilled the purpose of
his birth. In other lands and in other times the satirist is recognised and his work appraised;
the abuses he scourged, the pretensions he ridiculed, are seen in all their hideousness; but
when a great satirist arises amongst ourselves to probe the ulcers of pharisaism, he is banned
as a profaner of holy things, touching with impious hands the ark of the covenant. Why should
the cloth--as it is so ingenuously called--be touched with delicate hands, unless it be that
it is shoddy? Yet the man who would stand well in the eyes of society must not whisper a word
against pharisaism; for the Pharisee is a highly respectable person, and observes the proprieties;
he typifies the conventional righteousness and religion of his time.

Let us have done with all this timidity and coward tenderness. If the Church is filthy, it
must be cleansed; if there be money-changers within its gates, let them be driven out with
a whip of small cords. This awe of the cloth, not yet stamped out in Scotland, is but the remains
of a pagan superstition, and has nothing to do with the manliness and courage of true religion.
But prophets have no honour in their own country, rarely in their own time; they have ever
been persecuted, and it is the Church's martyrs that have handed down through the ages the
light of the world.

The profanities and religious blasphemies Burns attacked were evils insidious and poisonous,
eating to the very heart of the religious life of the country, and they required a desperate
remedy. Let us be thankful that the remedy was applied in time; and, looking to the righteousness
he wrought, let us bless the name of Burns.

Burns's father, stern and severe moralist as he was, was not a strict Calvinist. Anyone who
takes the trouble to read 'The Manual of Religious Belief in a Dialogue between Father and
Son, compiled by William Burness, Farmer, Mount Oliphant, and transcribed with Grammatical
Corrections by John Murdoch, Teacher,' will see that the man was of too loving and kindly a
nature to be strictly orthodox. What was rigid and unlovely to him in the Calvinism of the
Scottish Church of that day has been here softened down into something not very far from Arminianism.
He had had a hard experience in the world himself, and that may have drawn him nearer to his
suffering fellow-men and into closer communion with his God. He had learned that religion is
a thing of the spirit, and not a matter of creeds and catechisms. Of Robert Burns's own religion
it would be impertinent to inquire too curiously. The religion of a man is not to be paraded
before the public like the manifesto of a party politician. After all, is there a single man
who can sincerely, without equivocation or mental reservation, label himself Calvinist, Arminian,
Socinian, or Pelagian? If there be, his mind must be a marvel of mathematical nicety and nothing
more. All that we need know of Burns is that he was naturally and sincerely religious; that
he worshipped an all-loving Father, and believed in an ever-present God; that his charity was
boundless; that he loved what was good and true, and hated with an indignant hatred whatever
was loathsome and false. He loved greatly his fellow-creatures, man and beast and flower; he
could even find something to pity in the fate of the devil himself. That he was not orthodox,
in the narrow interpretation of orthodoxy in his day, we are well enough aware, else had he
not been the poet we love and cherish.

In his early days at Mount Oliphant there is a hint of these later satires. In those days it
was Anathema-maranatha; even now it is still the war-slogan of the Assemblies.

The polemical divinity which he refers to as putting the country half-mad was the wordy war
that was being carried on at that time between the Auld Lights and the New Lights. These New
Lights, as they were called, were but a birth of the social and religious upheaval that was
going on in Scotland and elsewhere. The spirit of revolution was abroad; in France it became
acutely political; in Scotland there was a desire for greater religious freedom. The Church,
as reformed by Knox, was requiring to be re-reformed. The yoke of papacy had been lifted certainly,
but the yoke of pseudo-Protestantism which had taken its place was quite as heavy on the necks
of the people. So long as it had been new; so long as it had been of their own choosing, it
had been endured willingly. But a generation was springing up--stiff-necked they might have
been called, in that they fretted under the yoke of their fathers--that sought to be delivered
from the tyranny of their pastors and the fossilised formalism of their creed. To the people
in their bondage a prophet was born, and that prophet was Robert Burns.

It was natural that a man of Burns's temperament and clearness of perception should be on the
side of the 'common-sense' party. In one of his letters to Mr. James Burness, Montrose, wherein
he describes the strange doings of a strange sect called the Buchanites,--surely in itself
a convincing proof of the degeneracy of the times in the matter of religion,--we have an interesting
reflection which gives us some insight into the poet's mind. Nay, I have often thought that
the more out of the way and ridiculous their fancies are, if once they are sanctified under
the name of religion, the unhappy, mistaken votaries are the more firmly glued to them.'

The man who wrote that was certainly not the man, when the day of battle came, to join himself
with the orthodox party, the party that stuck to the pure, undiluted Puritanism of Covenanting
times. Yet many biographers have not seen the bearing that such a letter has on Burns's attitude
to the Church. Principal Shairp seems to say that Burns, had it not been for the accident of
ecclesiastical discipline to which he had been subjected, would have joined the orthodox party.
The notion is absurd. Burns had attacked orthodox Calvinism even in his boyhood, and was already
tainted with heresy. 'These men,' the worthy Principal informs us, 'were democratic in their
ecclesiastical views, and stout protesters against patronage. The question was not of patronage
at all, but of moral and religious freedom; while the democracy of those ministers was a terribly
one-sided democracy. The lairds may have dubbed them democrats, but they were aristocratic
enough, despotic even, to their herds. Were these men all coarse minded? Nobody believes it.
The coarse-minded Dr. Dalrymple of Ayr, and the coarse-minded Mr. Lawrie of Loudon! This is
not argument. Besides, it is perfectly gratuitous. The question, again, is not one of men--that
ecclesiastical discipline has been an offence and a stumbling-block--either coarse minded or
otherwise. It is a question of principle, and Burns fought for it with keen-edged weapons.

It would be altogether a mistake to identify Burns with the New Light party, or with any other
sect. He was a law unto himself in religion, and would bind himself by no creed. Because he
attacked rigid orthodoxy as upheld by Auld Light doctrine, that does not at all mean that he
was espousing, through thick and thin, the cause of the New Light party. He fought in his own
name, with his own weapons, and for humanity. It ought to be clearly understood that in his
series of satires he was not attacking the orthodoxy of the Auld Lights from the bulwarks of
any other creed. His criticism was altogether destructive. From his own conception of a wise
and loving God he satirised what he conceived to be their irrational and inhuman conception
of Deity, whose attitude towards mankind was assuredly not that of a father to his children.
Burns's God was a God of love; the god they worshipped was the creation of their creed, a god
of election. It is quite true that Burns made many friends amongst the New Lights, but we are
certain he did not hold by all their tenets or subscribe to their doctrine. In the Dictionary
of National Biography we read: 'Burns represented the revolt of a virile and imaginative nature
against a system of belief and practice which, as he judged, had degenerated into mere bigotry
and pharisaism.... That Burns, like Carlyle, who at once retained the sentiment and rejected
the creed of his race more decidedly than Burns, could sympathise with the higher religious
sentiments of his class is proved by The Cotter's Saturday Night.'

Principal Shairp, however, has not seen the matter in this broad light. Professor Blackie recognises
that the abuses Burns castigated were real abuses, and admits that the verdict of time has
been in his favour. 'In the case of Holy Willie and The Holy Fair,' he remarks, 'the lash was
wisely and effectively wielded'; and on another occasion he wrote, 'Though a sensitive pious
mind will naturally shrink from the bold exposure of devout abuses in holy things, in The Holy
Fair and other similar satires, on a broad view of the matter we cannot but think that the
castigation was reasonable, and the man who did it showed an amount of independence, frankness,
and moral courage that amply compensates for the rudeness of the assault.'

Rude, the assault certainly was and overwhelming. Augean stables are not to be cleansed with
a spray of rose-water.

Lockhart, whilst recognising the force and keenness of these satires, has regretfully pointed
out that the very things Burns satirised were part of the same religious system which produced
the scenes described in The Cotter's Saturday Night. But is this not really the explanation
of the whole matter? It was just because Burns had seen the beauty of true religion at home,
that he was fired to fight to the death what was false and rotten. It was the cause of true
religion that he espoused.

    'All hail religion! Maid divine,
    Pardon a muse so mean as mine,
    Who in her rough imperfect line
          Thus dares to name thee. The two readings are as far apart as is heaven from
hell, as far as the true from the false. It is strange that both
Lockhart and Shairp should have stumbled on the explanation of Burns's
righteous satire in these poems; should have been so near it, and yet
have missed it. It was just because Burns could write The Cotter's
Saturday Night that he could write The Holy Tulzie, Holy Willie's
Prayer, The Ordination, and The Holy Fair. Had he not felt the
beauty of that family worship at home; had he not seen the purity and
holiness of true religion, how could such scenes as those described in
The Holy Fair, or such hypocrisy as Holy Willie's, ever have moved him
to scathing satire? Where was the poet's indignation to come from? That
is not to be got by tricks of rhyme or manufactured by rules of metre;
but let it be alive and burning in the heart of the poet, and all else
will be added unto him for the perfect poem, as it was to Burns. That
Burns, though he wrote in humorous satire, was moved to the writing by
indignation, he tells us in his epistle to the Rev. John M'Math--

    'But I gae mad at their grimaces,
    Their sighin', cantin', grace-prood faces,
    Their three-mile prayers, and half-mile graces,
                  Their raxin' conscience,
    Whase greed, revenge, and pride disgraces
                  Waur nor their nonsense.'

The first of Burns's satires, if we except his epistle to John Goudie, wherein we have a hint
of the acute differences of the time, is his poem The Twa Herds, or The Holy Tulzie. The two
herds were the Rev. John Russell and the Rev. Alexander Moodie, both afterwards mentioned in
The Holy Fair. These reverend gentlemen, so long sworn friends, bound by a common bond of enmity
against a certain New Light minister of the name of Lindsay, 'had a bitter black outcast,'
and, in the words of Lockhart, 'abused each other coram populo with a fiery virulence of personal
invective such as has long been banished from all popular assemblies.' This degrading spectacle
of two priests ordained to preach the gospel of love, attacking each other with all the rancour
of malice and uncharitableness, and foaming with the passion of a pothouse, was too flagrant
an occasion for satire for Burns to miss. He held them up to ridicule in The Holy Tulzie, and
showed them themselves as others saw them. It has been objected by some that Burns made use
of humorous satire; did not censure with the fiery fervour of a righteous indignation. Burns
used the weapon he could handle best; and a powerful weapon it is in the hands of a master.
We acknowledge Horace's satires to be scathing enough, though they are light and delicate,
almost trifling and flippant at times. He has not the volcanic utterance of Juvenal, but I
doubt not his castigations were quite as effective. 'Quamquam ridentem dicere verum quid vetat?'
Burns might have well replied to his censors with the same question. Quick on the heels of
this poem came Holy Willie's Prayer, wherein he took up the cudgels for his friend, Mr. Gavin
Hamilton, and fought for him in his own enthusiastic way. The satire here is so scathing and
scarifying that we can only read and wonder, shuddering the while for the wretched creature
so pitilessly flayed. Not a word is wasted; not a line without weight. The character of the
self-righteous, sensual, spiteful Pharisee is a merciless exposure, and, hardest of all, the
picture is convincing. For Burns believed in his own mind that these men, Holy Willie and the
crew he typified, were thoroughly dishonest. They were not in his judgment--and Burns had keen
insight--mere bigots dehumanised by their creed, but a pack of scheming, calculating scoundrels.

    'They take religion in their mouth,
    They talk o' mercy, grace, and truth,
    For what? to gie their malice skouth
                On some puir wight,
    And hunt him down, o'er right and ruth
                To ruin straight.'

But it must be noted in Holy Willie that the poet is not letting himself out in a burst of
personal spleen. He is again girding at the rigidity of a lopped and maimed Calvinism, and
attacking the creed through the man. The poem is a living presentment of the undiluted, puritanic
doctrine of the Auld Light party, to whom Calvinism meant only a belief in hell and an assurance
of their own election. It is evident that Burns was not sound on either essential. The Address
to the Unco Guid is a natural sequel to this poem, and, in a sense, its culmination. There
is the same strength of satire, but now it is more delicate and the language more dignified.
There is the same condemnation of pharisaism; but the poem rises to a higher level in its appeal
for charitable views of human frailty, and its kindly counsel to silence; judgment is to be
left to Him who

    'Knows each cord, its various tone,
      Each spring its various bias.'

Of all the series of satires, however, The Holy Fair is the most remarkable. It is in a sense
a summing up of all the others that preceded it. The picture it gives of the mixed and motley
multitude fairing in the churchyard at Mauchline, with a relay of ministerial mountebanks catering
for their excitement, is true to the life. It is begging the question to deplore that Burns
was provoked to such an attack. The scene was provocation sufficient to any right-thinking
man who associated the name of religion with all that was good and beautiful and true. Such
a state of things demanded reformation. The churchyard--that holy ground on which the church
was built and sanctified by the dust of pious and saintly men--cried aloud against the desecration
to which it was subjected; and Burns, who alone had the power to purify it from such profanities,
would have been untrue to himself and a traitor to the religion of his country had he merely
shrugged his shoulders and allowed things to go on as they were going. And after all what was
the result? For the poem is part and parcel of the end it achieved. 'There is a general feeling
in Ayrshire,' says Chambers, 'that The Holy Fair was attended with a good effect; for since
its appearance the custom of resorting to the occasion in neighbouring parishes for the sake
of holiday-making has been much abated and a great increase of decorous observance has taken
place.' To that nothing more need be added.

In this series of satires The Address to the Deil ought also to be included. Burns had no belief
at all in that Frankenstein creation. It was too bad, he thought, to invent such a monster
for the express purpose of imputing to him all the wickedness of the world. If such a creature
existed, he was rather sorry for the maligned character, and inclined to think that there might
be mercy even for him.

    'I'm wae to think upon yon den,
            Even for your sake.'

Speaking of this address, Auguste Angellier says: 'All at once in their homely speech they
heard the devil addressed not only without awe, but with a spice of good-fellowship and friendly
familiarity. They had never heard the devil spoken of in this tone before. It was a charming
address, jocund, full of raillery and good-humour, with a dash of friendliness, as if the two
speakers had been cronies and companions ready to jog along arm in arm to the nether regions.
He simply laughs Satan out of countenance, turns him to ridicule, pokes his fun at him, scolds
and defies him just as he might have treated a person from whom he had nothing to fear. Nor
is that all. He must admonish him, tell him he has been naughty long enough, and wind up by
giving him some good advice, counselling him to mend his ways. This was certainly without theological
precedent. It was, however, a simple idea which would have arranged matters splendidly....
Even to-day to speak well of the devil is an abomination almost as serious as to speak evil
of the Deity. There was assuredly a great fortitude of mind as well as daring of conduct to
write such a piece as this.'

The poem has done more than anything else to kill the devil of superstition in Scotland. After
his death he found, it is averred, a quiet resting-place in Kirkcaldy, where pious people have
built a church on his grave.

When Burns later in life made the witches and warlocks dance to the piping of the devil in
Alloway's auld haunted kirk, he was but assembling them in their fit and proper house of meeting.
Here had they been called into being; here had they the still-born children of superstition
been thrashed into life and trained in unholiness. One can imagine them oozing out from the
walls that had echoed their names so often through centuries of Sabbath days. The devil himself,
by virtue of his rank, takes his place in the east, rising we have no doubt from the very spot
on which the pulpit once had stood. In the church had superstition exorcised this hellish legion
out of the dead mass of ignorance into the swarming maggots that batten on corruption; and
it was in accordance with the eternal fitness of things that here their spirits should abide,
and, when they took bodily shape, that they should assume the form and feature in which their
mother Superstition had conceived them.

Upon the holy table too lay 'twa span-lang wee unchristened bairns.' For this hell the poet
pictures is the creation of a creed that throngs it with the souls of innocent babes. 'Suffer
little children to come unto me,' Christ had said; 'for of such is the kingdom of heaven.'
'But unbaptized children must come unto me,' the devil of superstition said; 'for of such is
the kingdom of hell.'

