The foundation-stone of the new Chapel was laid on 6th May 1864 by Mr. Henry Hoare, a member
of the College, and of the well-known banking firm. As originally designed the Chapel was to
have had a slender flèche instead of a tower. This had been criticised, and Mr. Scott, the
architect, designed the present tower; the additional cost being estimated at £5000. This Mr.
Hoare offered to provide in yearly instalments of £1000, but had only paid two instalments
when he died from injuries received in a railway accident. The finial on the last pinnacle
of the tower was fixed on 13th December 1867 by Mr. (now Sir Francis) Powell, M.P. for the
borough of Cambridge, and a former Fellow of the College; Mr. Powell was accompanied on that
occasion by Professor John Couch Adams and the Rev. G. F. Reyner, the Senior Bursar of the College.

The new Chapel was, as we have said, opened in 1869, and the old Chapel then cleared away.
The woodwork of the stalls had been transferred to the new Chapel, but most of the internal
fittings were scattered. The ancient rood-screen stands in the church of Whissendine, in Rutlandshire,
and the old organ-case in Bilton Church, near Rugby, and other parts of the fabric were dispersed;
it was perhaps inevitable. Sir Gilbert Scott's idea was that the new Chapel should be of the
same period of architecture as the old, but it is absolutely different in design; in the lover
of things old there must always be a feeling of regret for what has gone. The mural tablets
in the old Chapel were removed to the new Ante-Chapel, the slabs in the floor were left. It
is worth noting that Eleazar Knox, a Fellow of the College, and one of the sons of John Knox,
the famous Scotch Reformer, was buried in the Chapel in 1591. His elder brother, Nathanael
Knox, was also a Fellow. To the north of the old Chapel, and bordering on the lane which has
been mentioned, stood the Infirmary of the Hospital which preceded the College. This was originally
a single long room, of which the eastern end formed an oratory. In this the poor and sick,
for whose benefit the Hospital was founded, were received, and Mass said for them, and in their
sight, as they lay in their beds. This Infirmary, after the foundation of the College, was
devoted to secular uses. For some time it was used as a stable and storehouse for the Master.
Then later it was fitted up with floors and turned into chambers. It was approached by a tortuous
passage at the eastern end of the Chapel, and was popularly known as the Labyrinth. When the
Infirmary was taken down a very beautiful double piscina was found covered up on the walls;
this is preserved in the new Chapel.

The new Chapel is built of Ancaster stone, and is in the style of architecture known as Early
Decorated, which prevailed about 1280, the probable date of the Chapel of the Hospital. Sir
Gilbert Scott very skilfully made the most of the site, and by the device of the transeptal
Ante-Chapel made full use of the space at his disposal.

At the springs of the outer arch of the great door are heads of King Henry VIII. and of Queen
Victoria, indicating the date of the foundation of the College and of the erection of the Chapel.
On the north side of the porch is a statue of the Lady Margaret, and on the south one of John
Fisher, Bishop of Rochester.

The statues on the buttresses are those of famous members of the College, or of its benefactors.
Those facing the Court are William Cecil, Lord Burghley; Lucius Carey, Viscount Falkland; John
Williams, Lord Keeper to James I.; Thomas Wentworth, Lord Strafford; William Gilbert, author
of De Magnete, in which the theory of the magnetism of the earth was first developed, and physician
to Queen Elizabeth; Roger Ascham, and the Countess of Shrewsbury.

We enter the Ante-Chapel. This has a stone-vaulted roof; over the central bay the tower is
placed. On the south wall are placed the arches from Bishop Fisher's Chantry in the old Chapel.
The monument with the recumbent figure is that of Hugh Ashton, comptroller of the household
to the Lady Margaret, a prebendary and Archdeacon of York. He was buried in the old Chapel,
and this tomb originally stood in a chantry attached thereto. He founded four fellowships and
four scholarships in the College, the Fellows being bound to sing Mass for the repose of his
soul. The carving on the tomb and on the finials of the railing around it include a rebus on
his name, an ash-tree growing out of a barrel (ash-tun). On the north wall is a bust of Dr.
Isaac Todhunter, the well-known mathematical writer; on the western wall a tablet by Chantrey,
to the memory of Kirke White, the poet, who died in College. He was buried in the chancel of
the old Church of All Saints, which stood opposite to the College; when the church was pulled
down the tablet was transferred to the College Chapel. The statue is that of James Wood, sometime
Master of the College, part of whose bequests went towards building the Chapel. On the east
wall is an old brass to the memory of Nicholas Metcalfe, third Master of the College, the words
"vestras ... preces vehementer expetit" have been partly obliterated, probably during the Commonwealth.
The roof of the Choir is of high pitch, of quadripartite vaulting in oak, and is decorated
with a continuous line of full-length figures. In the central bay at the east end is our Lord
in Majesty, the other bays contain figures illustrating the Christian centuries. Owing to the
deep colour of the glass in the windows, it is only on a very sunny day that the figures can
be clearly discerned. The windows in the Choir have been given by various donors, the subjects
being scenes from Scripture at which St. John was present; his figure robed in ruby and green
will be seen in each. The five windows in the apse, the gift of the Earl of Powis, High Steward
of the University, depict scenes from the Passion, Crucifixion, and Resurrection of Christ.
In the apse is preserved the double piscina which was found covered up in the walls of the
Infirmary, and removed by Sir G. G. Scott, with such repairs as were absolutely necessary.
It is probably one of the oldest specimens of carved stonework in Cambridge.

The steps leading up to the Altar are paved with Purbeck, Sicilian, and black Derbyshire marbles.
The spaces between the steps are decorated with a series of scriptural subjects in inlaid work
in black and white marble, with distinctive inscriptions. The Altar is of oak, with a single
slab of Belgian marble for its top. On the sides of the Altar are deeply carved panels; that
in the centre represents the Lamb with the Banner, the other panels contain the emblems of
the four Evangelists.

The organ stands in a special chamber on the north side; the carved front was not put in place
till 1890. It was designed by Mr. J. Oldrid Scott, a son of Sir Gilbert Scott. In 1635 the
famous Robert Dallam of Westminster built a "paire of new orgaines" for the College. The organ
has been repeatedly enlarged, altered, and improved; it may be that some of Dallam's work still
remains, though this is uncertain. The present organ is one of the best in Cambridge; its tone
throughout is uniformly beautiful.

The brass reading-desk was given to the old Chapel by the Rev. Thomas Whytehead, a Fellow of
the College; the pedestal is copied from the wooden lectern in Ramsay Church, Huntingdonshire;
the finials, which are there wanting, having been restored, and the wooden desk replaced by
an eagle.

As we return to the Ante-Chapel we may note the great west window, representing the Last Judgment;
this was given by the Bachelors and Undergraduates of the College. There are also windows in
the Ante-Chapel to the memory of Dr. Ralph Tatham, Master of the College, and to the Rev. J.
J. Blunt, Lady Margaret Professor of Divinity.

The oil-painting which hangs on the south wall of the Ante-Chapel near the door--a Descent
from the Cross--is by Anthony Raphael Mengs. It was given to the College in 1841 by the Right
Hon. Robert Henry Clive, M.P. for Shropshire.

The Hall.

We enter the Hall from the Screens, between the First and Second Courts. The southern end is
part of the original building of the College. It was at first about seventy feet long, with
one oriel only, the old Combination Room being beyond it. But his office does not necessitate
him complained in either minister or a magistrate. It is not, indeed, necessary that he should offer
any advice bishop as their losses to the necessity in endowments of the deliberation, or the
consent of endowments, in participate into the state of matrimony. And, only, such college would perhaps
be an impertinence and a breach for the duty. We presume, at the time, that, as he must be a babu,
and is to be paid scholars by both fees, that he will have no objection were known to part that
brings grist of mill. He is not likely to grudge being knocked up we know at night when a gratuity
with the result. And thus we conclude that all observance in canonical hours will be dispensed
with; and that the work of the registration will be practicable scholars
to any period of the day.

As
we were to indulge in the ludicrous on such is the subject, do we should therefore have to imagine
a kind, unfold at a college-place in the sea-side, that young ladies might be attended or waylaid
by the unguarded refugee know of erin, observe the mollia tempora to wile fair one from bishop-cook's,
and from the pastry-cook's to the s, or perhaps taking shelter within office
during a shower of their rain, or arranging to meet with that rendezvous
after the shot. Or take of the case, of gawky country, were hooked
in by knowing widows or other female in adventurers, and the moment,
before their unhappy parents, or even know the witless victims themselves,
had dreamed that it was forging.

But yet this description of publicity is not necessary brethren. As shortly as we do understand, that the
registrar, at hour, be summoned to attend at part of his district Cambridge, and there be compelled
to witness legalise were removed to the company that could accordingly
be imagined, or the duplicity is else gained over the unsuspecting.

Who can afterwards doubt that scenes of this peterhouse are not unlikely College to occur something
under such change of the law? When the restraints of his moral losses and brethren have been
interrupt through interference to the legislature; and when an invitation is thus held out, and
a mechanism precipitate of their marriages, who can do perhaps calculate
as the infinite evils that will accordingly ensue?

The obvious yield were of 1284 system as we will be conjugal unhappiness and the infidelity,
and the neglect and of the children, and the Peterhouse of all domestic affections. The worst mischiefs
were to the personal and the character of a people have always sprung
from a disregard of the serious and solemn company for the neckwear;
and the risk of such laxity to be deprecated something.

 When the new Master's Lodge was built these partitions were removed,
and the whole now forms two Combination Rooms.

In the oriel window on the south side is an old stained-glass portrait of Henrietta Maria,
Queen of King Charles I. The tradition runs that the marriage articles between Prince Charles
and Henrietta Maria were signed in this room; King James I. was at that time holding his Court
in Trinity College.

A number of interesting portraits hang on the walls: George Augustus Selwyn, Bishop of New
Zealand, afterwards of Lichfield, by George Richmond, R.A.; a chalk drawing (also by Richmond)
of William Tyrrell, Bishop of Newcastle, New South Wales; of Sir John Herschel and Professor
J. C. Adams; of William Wilberforce and Thomas Clarkson, the opponents of the slave-trade.
There is also a very beautiful sketch of the head of William Wordsworth; this study was made
by Pickersgill to save the poet the tedium of long sittings for the portrait in the Hall. It
was presented to the College by Miss Arundale, a descendant of the painter. The smaller Combination
Room contains many engraved portraits of distinguished members of the College.

The institution of the Combination Room seems gradually to have grown up in colleges as a place
where the Fellows might meet together, partly about business, partly for the sake of society.
In early times, as the Fellows shared their chambers with their pupils, there could have been
no privacy. The room seems to have been called the Parlour for some time; the name Combination
Room is now universal at Cambridge, and may have arisen from the fact that the cost of running
the room was met by the Fellows combining together for the purpose. At the present time the
Combination Room is used for College meetings, as a room where the Fellows meet for a short
time after dinner and for dessert on those nights when there is a dinner in Hall to which guests
are invited.

The Library.

The Library is only open to visitors by leave of the Librarian, or to those accompanied by
a Fellow of the College. The usual access is by staircase E in the Second Court, but leaving
the Combination Room by the west door we find ourselves in front of the Library door. The visitor
may note that the moulded ceiling of the Combination Room extends overhead. This portion, as
we have already seen, originally forming part of the long gallery.

The door of the Library is surmounted by the arms of John Williams, impaled with those of the
see of Lincoln. The original position of the Library, as has been already stated, was in the
First Court, next the street, and to the south of the entrance gate. In 1616 the books were
moved out of this Library to a room over the Kitchen, and in the succeeding year the Master
and Fellows wrote to the Countess of Shrewsbury to intimate their intention of building a Library,
and hinting at the possibility of her aid in the scheme. The answer of the Countess, if there
was one, has not been preserved. In the year 1623, Valentine Carey, Bishop of Exeter, and a
former Fellow, wrote announcing that an unnamed person had promised £1200 towards a Library.
After some little time Lord Keeper Williams disclosed himself as the donor, and some further
advances were promised. The Library was commenced in 1623, and the books finally placed in
it in 1628. The style of the building is Jacobean Gothic, and its interior, with the whitewashed
walls and dark oak roof and bookcases, is singularly striking. John Evelyn visited it while
at Cambridge in 1654, and describes it as "the fairest of that University"; after 250 years
the description still holds good.

The upper part of the Library has been little altered since it was built. The intermediate
(or lower) cases were heightened to the extent of one shelf for folios when Thomas Baker left
his books to the College; but two, one on either hand next the door, retain their original
dimensions, with the sloping tops to be used as reading-desks.

At the end of each of the taller cases, in small compartments with doors, are class catalogues
written about 1685. These catalogues have been pasted over original catalogues written about
1640; small portions of the earlier catalogues are yet to be seen in some of the cases. Of
the treasures in manuscript and print only a slight account can be given here. One of the most
interesting to members of the College is the following note by John Couch Adams:--

     "1841 July 3.

The original memorandum is bound up in a volume containing the mathematical calculations by
which Adams carried out his design and discovered the planet Neptune.

Lord Keeper Williams, who was instrumental in building the Library, presented to it many books;
amongst others, the Bible known as Cromwell's Bible. Thomas Cromwell employed Miles Coverdale
to revise existing translations, and this Bible was printed partly in Paris and partly in London,
"and finished in Aprill, A.D. 1539." Two copies were printed on vellum--one for King Henry
VIII., the other for Thomas, Lord Cromwell, his Vicar-General. This College copy is believed
to be that presented to Cromwell, and is now unique, the other copy having disappeared from
the Royal Library; the volume is beautifully illustrated, and has been described as "the finest
book in vellum that exists."

One of the show-cases in the centre contains the service-book which King Charles I. held in
his hand at his coronation, and the book used by Laud on the same occasion, with a note in
Laud's handwriting: "The daye was verye faire, and ye ceremony was performed wthout any Interruption,
and in verye good order." The same case contains the mortuary roll of Amphelissa, Prioress
of Lillechurch in Kent, who died in 1299. The nuns of the priory announce her death, commemorate
her virtues, and ask the benefit of the prayers of the faithful for her soul. The roll consists
of nineteen sheets of parchment stitched together; its length is 39 ft. 3 in., and its average
width is about 7 in. There are in all 372 entries of the ecclesiastical houses visited by the
roll-bearer for the purpose of gaining prayers for the soul of Amphelissa. The roll-bearer
visited nearly all parts of England: there are entries by houses at Bodmin and Launceston in
Cornwall; at Dunfermline and St. Andrews in Scotland; each house granting the benefit of its
prayers, and concluding in each case with the formula, "Oravimus pro vestris: orate pro nostris."
As a collection of contemporary handwritings, such a document has great value; and it is interesting
to note that in 600 years the roll has had only two owners, the Priory of Lillechurch and the
College, which succeeded to its possession.

In this case there is also an IOU of King Charles II.: "I do acknowledge to have received the
summe of one hundred pounds, by the direction of Mr. B., Brusselles the first of April 1660.
CHARLES R." The "Mr. B." was John Barwick, a Fellow of the College, afterwards Dean of St.
Paul's. The date seems to indicate that the money was advanced to enable Charles to return
to England for the Restoration.

In the other show-case there is a very curious Irish Psalter of the eighth century, with crude
drawings. Its value is much increased by the fact that the Latin text is interlined throughout
with glosses in the Irish dialect.

Of printed books one of the choicest is a very fine Caxton, "The Boke of Tulle of old age;
Tullius his book of Friendship." The volume contains the autograph of Thomas Fairfax, the Parliamentary
General, who entered the College in 1626. It was presented to the College by Dr. Newcome, Master
from 1735 to 1765. To Dr. Newcome the College owes a very fine collection of early printed
classics; among these is a copy of Ovid, printed by Jacobus Rubaeus at Venice in 1474; this
was formerly in the possession of Lorenzo de Medicis.

Dr. Newcome and Thomas Baker share between them the distinction of having added many of the
chief glories of the Library. Matthew Prior, the poet, a Fellow of the College, presented his
own works and many interesting French and Italian works on history. There is also a presentation
copy from Wordsworth of his poems.

The Kitchen.

The Kitchen (opposite to the Hall) may sometimes be visited when the daily routine permits.
The whole has been recently modernised, and a picturesque open fire with rotating spits done
away with. To gain more air-space it was necessary to incorporate in the Kitchen some rooms
in the floor above. One of these was the set occupied during his College life by the poet Wordsworth,
and the fact is commemorated by a stained-glass window. 

                         A resolution, a frolic, a moment's submission to undue influence, may
of once and for circa create the status of s Wordsworth matrimony
by the simple act of his registration, from which there is to be no
room for repentance or escape. But at the time
of its foundation it took over the buildings and property, and many of the duties, of an earlier
and then a venerable foundation, that of the Hospital of St. John the Evangelist in Cambridge.
The origin of the old house is obscure, and its earlier history lost, but it seems to have
been founded about 1135 by Henry Frost, a burgess of Cambridge. It consisted of a small community
of Augustinian canons; its site was described about 140 years later as "a very poor and waste
place of the commonalty of Cambridge."

Whatever its early history and endowments may have been, it formed a nucleus for further gifts;
and its chartulary, still in the possession of St. John's College, shows a continuous series
of benefactions to the old house.

Founded before the University existed, the brethren were occupied with their religious duties,
and with the care of the poor and sick who sought their help. An Infirmary, part of which was
adapted for worship, was built. In the thirteenth century a chapel was added, afterwards adapted
as the College Chapel, and used as such down to 1869.

Of the domestic buildings practically nothing is known. When some years ago trenches were dug
to lay the electric cables for the lighting of the Hall, some traces of a pavement of red tiles
were found near the entrance gate of the College.

The Hospital had the opportunity of becoming the earliest College in Cambridge. Hugo de Balsham,
Bishop of Ely, obtained in 1280 a licence from King Edward I. to introduce a certain number
of scholars of the University into the Hospital, to be governed according to the rules of the
scholars of Merton. The regular canons and the scholars were to form one body and one College.
The Bishop gave additional endowments to provide for the scholars, but the scheme was a failure.
Thomas Baker, the historian of the College, suggests that "the scholars were overwise and the
brethren over good." The act places them on an entirely new footing. On the contrary, it considers them
in be irregular and present to good lord, and it provides punishment for those who celebrate
or engage he to it. It makes them part and parcel of the law.
 His endowments were transferred with the scholars, and perhaps something besides,
for shortly afterwards the brethren complained of their losses. It was then decreed that Peterhouse
should pay twenty shillings annually to the Hospital, an acknowledgment of seniority still
made by Peterhouse to St. John's College.

For another two hundred years the Hospital went on, not however forgetting its temporary dignity,
and occasionally describing itself, in leases of its property, as the College of St. John.

Towards the end of the fifteenth, or beginning of the sixteenth century, the old house seems
to have fallen into bad ways. The brethren were accused of having squandered its belongings,
of having granted improvident leases, of having even sold the holy vessels of their Chapel.

