Now that the Island Battery had been silenced there was no reason why Warren's plan should
not be crowned with complete success. Accordingly he arranged with Pepperrell to run in with
the first fair wind, at the head of the whole fleet, which, with the Provincial armed vessels,
now numbered twenty-four sail, carried 770 guns, and was manned by 4,000 sailors. Half these
men could be landed to attack the inner water-front, while Pepperrell could send another 2,000
against the walls. The total odds against Louisbourg would thus be about four to one in men
and over eight to one in guns actually engaged.

But this threatened assault was never made. In the early morning of June 27 the non-combatants
in Louisbourg unanimously petitioned du Chambon to surrender forthwith. They crept out of their
underground dungeons and gazed with mortal apprehension at the overwhelming forces that stood
arrayed against their crumbling walls and dwindling garrison. Noon came, and their worst fears
seemed about to be realized. But when the drums began beating, it was to a parley, not to arms.
A sigh of ineffable relief went up from the whole of Louisbourg, and every eye followed the
little white flutter of the flag of truce as it neared that terrible breaching battery opposite
the West Gate. A Provincial officer came out to meet it. The French officer and he saluted.
Then both moved into the British lines and beyond, to where Warren and Pepperrell were making
their last arrangements on Green Hill.

After a short consultation the British leaders sent in a joint reply to say that du Chambon
could have till eight the next morning to make his proposals. These proved to be so unacceptable
that Pepperrell refused to consider them, and at once sent counter-proposals of his own. Du
Chambon had now no choice between annihilation and acceptance, so he agreed to surrender Louisbourg
the following day. He was obliged to guarantee that none of the garrison should bear arms against
the British, in any part of the world, for a whole year. Every one in Louisbourg was of course
promised full protection for both property and person. Du Chambon's one successful stipulation
was that his troops should march out with the honours of war, drums beating, bayonets fixed,
and colours flying. Warren and Pepperrell willingly accorded this on the 28th; and the formal
transfer took place next day, exactly seven weeks since the first eager New Englanders had
waded ashore through the thundering surf of Gabarus Bay.

The total losses in killed and wounded were never precisely determined. Each side minimized
its own and maximized the enemy's. But as du Chambon admitted a loss of one hundred and forty-five,
and as the Provincials claimed to have put three hundred out of action, the true number is
probably about two hundred, or just over ten per cent of the whole garrison. The Provincials
reported their own killed, quite correctly, at a hundred. The remaining deaths, on both sides,
were due to disease. The Provincial wounded were never grouped together in any official returns.
They amounted to about three hundred. This brings the total casualties in Pepperrell's army
up to four hundred and gives the same percentage as the French. The highest proportion of casualties
among all the different forces was the fifteen per cent lost by the French on board the Vigilant
in less than five hours' fighting. The lowest was in Warren's squadron and the Provincial Marine--about
five in each. The loss of material suffered by the French was, of course, on quite a different
scale. Every fortification and other building in Louisbourg, with the remarkable exception
of a single house, was at least partly demolished by the nine thousand cannon balls and six
hundred shells that hit the target of a hundred acres peopled by four thousand souls.

On the 29th the French marched out with the honours of war, laid down their arms, and were
put under guard as prisoners, pending their transport to France. Du Chambon handed the keys
to Pepperrell at the South Gate. The victorious but disgusted Provincials marched in by the
West Gate, and found themselves set to protect the very houses that they had hoped to plunder.
Was it not high time to recoup themselves for serving as soldiers at sixpence a day? Great
Babylon had fallen, and ought to be destroyed--of course, with due profit to the destroyers.
There was a regular Louisbourg legend, current in New England, that stores of goods and money
were to be found in the strong rooms of every house. So we can understand the indignation of
men whose ideas were coloured by personal contact with smuggling and privateering, and sometimes
with downright piracy, when they were actually told off as sentries over these mythical hoards
of wealth. But, as a matter of fact, there was so little to steal that the looters began to
suspect collusion between their leaders and the French. Another fancied wrong exasperated the
Provincials at this critical time. A rumour ran through the camp that Warren had forestalled
Pepperrell by receiving the keys himself. Warren was cursed, Pepperrell blamed; and a mutinous
spirit arose. Then it was suddenly discovered that Pepperrell had put the keys in his pocket.

Meanwhile the fleet was making haul after haul. When Pepperrell marched through the battered
West Gate, at the head of his motley army, Warren had led his squadron into the harbour; and
both commanders had saluted the raising of the Union Jack which marked the change of ownership.
But no sooner had the sound of guns and cheering died away than the Union Jack was lowered
and the French flag was raised again, both over the citadel of Louisbourg and over the Island
Battery. This stratagem succeeded beyond Warren's utmost expectations. Several French vessels
were lured into Louisbourg and captured with stores and men enough to have kept the British
out for some weeks longer. Their cargoes were worth about a million dollars. Then, just as
the naval men were wondering whether their harvest was over or not, a fine French frigate made
for the harbour quite unsuspectingly, and only discovered her fatal mistake too late to turn
back. By the irony of circumstances she happened to be called Notre-Dame de la Delivrance.
Among her passengers was the distinguished man of science, Don Antonio de Ulloa, on his way
to Paris, with all the results of those explorations in South America which he afterwards embodied
in a famous book of travel. Warren treated him with the greatest courtesy and promised that
all his collections should be duly forwarded to the Royal Academy of Sciences. Once this exchange
of international amenities had been ended, however, the usual systematic search began. The
visible cargo was all cocoa. But hidden underneath were layers and layers of shining silver
dollars from Peru; and, underneath this double million, another two million dollars' worth
of ingots of silver and ingots of gold.

The contrast between the poverty of Louisbourg, where so much had been expected, and the rich
hauls of prize-money made by the fleet, was gall and wormwood to the Provincials. But their
resentment was somewhat tempered by Warren's genial manner towards them. Warren was at home
with all sorts and conditions of men. His own brother-officers, statesmen and courtiers, distinguished
strangers like Ulloa, and colonial merchants like Pepperrell, were equally loud in his praise.
With the lesser and much more easily offended class of New Englanders found in the ranks he
was no less popular. A rousing speech, in which he praised the magnificently stubborn work
accomplished by 'my wife's fellow-countrymen,' a hearty generosity all round, and a special
hogshead of the best Jamaica rum for the garrison of the Royal Battery, won him a great deal
of goodwill, in spite of the fact that his 'Admiral's eighth' of the naval prize-money amounted
to some sixty thousand pounds, while Pepperrell found himself ten thousand pounds out of pocket
at the end of the siege.

Pepperrell, however, was a very rich man, for those colonial days; and he could well afford
to celebrate the fall of Louisbourg by giving the chief naval and military officers a dinner,
the fame of which will never fade away from some New England memories. Everything went off
without a hitch. But, as the hour approached, there was a growing anxiety, on the part of both
host and guests, as to whether or not the redoubtable Parson Moody would keep them listening
to his grace till all the meats got cold. He was well known for the length, as well as for
the strength, of his discourses. He had once denounced the Devil in a grace of forty minutes.
So what was the surprised delight of his fellow-revellers when he hardly kept them standing
longer than as many seconds. The vessel bearing it arrived in the middle of the night. But
long before the summer sun was up the streets were filled with shouts of triumph, while the
church bells rang in peals of exultation, and all the guns and muskets in the place were fired
as fast as men could load them.

The mother country's joy was less exuberant. There were so many other things to think of nearer
home; among them the British defeat at Fontenoy and the landing of the Young Pretender. Nor
was the actual victory without alloy; for prescient people feared that a practically independent
colonial army had been encouraged to become more independent still. And who can say the fear
was groundless? Louisbourg really did serve to blood New Englanders for Bunker's Hill. But,
in spite of this one drawback, the news was welcomed, partly because any victory was welcome
at such a time, and partly because the fall of Louisbourg was a signal assertion of British
sea-power on both sides of the Atlantic.

London naturally made overmuch of Warren's share, just as Boston made overmuch of Pepperrell's.
But the Imperial government itself perfectly understood that the fleet and the army were each
an indispensable half of one co-operating whole. Warren was promoted rear-admiral of the blue,
the least that could be given him. Pepperrell received much higher honours. He was made a baronet
and, like Shirley, was given the colonelcy of a regiment which was to bear his name. Such 'colonelcies'
do not imply the actual command of men, but are honorary distinctions of which even kings and
conquerors are proud. Nor was the Provincial Marine forgotten. Rous, of the Shirley, was sent
to England with dispatches, and was there made a post-captain in the Royal Navy for his gallantry
in action against the Vigilant. He afterwards enjoyed a distinguished career and died an admiral.
It was in his ship, the Sutherland, that Wolfe wrote the final orders for the Battle of the
Plains fourteen years after this first siege of Louisbourg.

CHAPTER III

THE LINK RECOVERED 1748

Louisbourg was the most thoroughly hated place in all America. The French government hated
it as Napoleon hated the Peninsula, because it was a drain on their resources. The British
government hated it because it cut into their oversea communications. The American colonists
hated it because it was a standing menace to their ambitious future. And every one who had
to live in it--no matter whether he was French or British, European or American, naval or military,
private or official--hated it as only exiles can.

But perhaps even exiled Frenchmen detested it less heartily than the disgusted Provincials
who formed its garrison from the summer of 1745 to the spring of the following year. Warren
and Pepperrell were obliged to spend half their time in seeing court-martial justice done.
The bluejackets fretted for some home port in which to enjoy their plentiful prize-money. The
Provincials fretted for home at any cost. They were angry at being kept on duty at sixpence
a day after the siege was over. They chafed against the rules about looting, as well as against
what they thought the unjust difference between the million sterling that had been captured
at sea, under full official sanction, and the ridiculous collection of odds and ends that could
be stolen on land, at the risk of pains and penalties. Imagine the rage of the sullen Puritan,
even if he had a sense of humour, when, after hearing a bluejacket discussing plans for spending
a hundred golden guineas, he had to make such entries in his diary as these of Private Benjamin
Crafts: 'Saturday. Recd a half-pint of Rum to Drinke ye King's Health. The Lord look upon Us
and prepare us for His Holy Day. Sunday. Blessed be the Lord that has given us to enjoy another
Sabath. Monday. Last Night I was taken verry Bad. The Lord be pleased to strengthen my Inner
Man. May we all be Prepared for his Holy Will. Recd part of Plunder--9 Small tooth combs.'

No wonder there was trouble in plenty. The routine of a small and uncongenial station is part
of a regular's second nature, though a very disagreeable part. But it maddens militiamen when
the stir of active service is past and they think they are being kept on such duty overtime.
The Massachusetts men had the worst pay and the best ringleaders, so they were the first to
break out openly. One morning they fell in without their officers, marched on to the general
parade, and threw their muskets down. This was a dramatic but ineffectual form of protest,
because nearly all the muskets were the private property of the men themselves, who soon came
back to take their favourite weapons up again. One of their most zealous chaplains, however,
was able to enter in his diary, perhaps not without a qualm, but certainly not without a proper
pride in New England spirit, the remark of a naval officer 'that he had thought the New England
men were cowards--But that Now he thought that if they had a Pick ax and Spade they would digg
ye way to Hell and storm it.'

The only relief from the deadly monotony and loneliness of Louisbourg was to be found in the
bad bargains and worse entertainment offered by the camp-followers, who quickly gathered, like
a flock of vultures, to pick the carcass to the bone. There were few pickings to be had, but
these human parasites held on until the bones were bare. Of course, they gave an inordinate
amount of trouble. They always do. But well-organized armies keep them in their place; while
militiamen can not.

Between the camp-followers and the men Pepperrell was almost driven mad. He implored Shirley
to come and see things for himself. Shirley came. He arrived at the end of August accompanied
both by his own wife and by Warren's. He delivered a patriotic speech, in which he did not
stint his praise of what had really been a great and notable achievement. His peroration called
forth some genuine enthusiasm. It began with a promise to raise the pay of the Massachusetts
contingent by fifteen shillings a month, and ended with free rum all round and three cheers
for the king. The prospect thereupon brightened a little. The mutineers kept quiet for several
days, and a few men even agreed to re-enlist until the following June. Shirley was very much
pleased with the immediate result, and still more pleased with himself. His next dispatch assured
the Duke of Newcastle that nobody else could have quelled the incipient mutiny so well. Nor
was the boast, in one sense, vain, since nobody else had the authority to raise the men's pay.

But discontent again became rife when it began to dawn on the Provincials that they would have
to garrison Louisbourg till the next open season. The unwelcome truth was that, except for
a few raw recruits, no reliefs were forthcoming from any quarter. The promised regulars had
left Gibraltar so late that they had to be sent to Virginia for the winter, lest the sudden
change to cold and clammy Louisbourg should put them on the sick list. The two new regiments,
Shirley's and Pepperrell's, which were to be recruited in the American colonies and form part
of the Imperial Army, could not be raised in time. There even seemed to be some doubt as to
whether they could be raised at all. The absence of Pepperrell from New England, the hatred
of garrison duty in Louisbourg, and resentment at seeing some Englishmen commissioned to command
Americans, were three great obstacles in the way. The only other resource was the colonial
militia, whose waifs and strays alone could be induced to enlist.

Thus, once the ice began to form, the despairing Provincial garrison saw there could be no
escape. The only discharge was death. What were then known as camp fevers had already broken
out in August. As many as twenty-seven funerals in a single day passed by the old lime-kiln
on the desolate point beyond the seaward walls of Louisbourg. 'After we got into the Towne,
a sordid indolence or Sloth, for want of Discipline, induced putrid fevers and dyssentrys,
which at length became contagious, and the people died like rotten sheep.' Medical men were
ignorant and few. Proper attendance was wholly lacking. But the devotion of the Puritan chaplains,
rivalling that of the early Jesuits, ran through those awful horrors like a thread of gold.
Here is a typical entry of one day's pastoral care: 'Prayed at Hospital. Prayed at Citadel.
Preached at Grand Batery. Visited [a long list of names] all verry Sick. [More names] Dy'd.
Am but poorly myself, but able to keep about.'

No survivor ever forgot the miseries of that dire winter in cold and clammy Louisbourg. When
April brought the Gibraltar regiments from Virginia, Pepperrell sent in to Shirley his general
report on the three thousand men with whom he had begun the autumn. Barely one thousand were
fit for duty. Eleven hundred lay sick and suffering in the ghastly hospital. Eight hundred
and ninety lay buried out on the dreary tongue of land between the lime-pit and the fog-bound,
ice-encumbered sea.

Warren took over the command of all the forces, as he had been appointed governor of Louisbourg
by the king's commission. Shirley had meanwhile been revolving new plans, this time for the
complete extirpation of the French in Canada during the present summer of 1746. He suggested
that Warren should be the naval joint commander, and Warren, of course, was nothing loth.

Massachusetts again rose grandly to the situation. She voted 3,500 men, with a four pound sterling
bounty to each one of them. New Hampshire, Connecticut, and Rhode Island followed well. New
York and New Jersey did less in proportion. Maryland did less still. Virginia would only pass
a lukewarm vote for a single hundred men. Pennsylvania, as usual, refused to do anything at
all. The legislature was under the control of the Quakers, who, when it came to war, were no
better than parasites. upon the body politic. They never objected to enjoying the commercial
benefits of conquest; any more than they objected to living on land which could never have
been either won or held without the arms they reprobated. But their principles forbade them
to face either the danger or expense of war. The honour of the other Pennsylvanians was, however,
nobly saved by a contingent of four hundred, raised as a purely private venture. Altogether,
the new Provincial army amounted to over 8,000 men.

