"Oh dear no!" said she of the red nose.  "They are relics!"  I thought to leap forth; but for
what purpose should I have leaped? The accursed scissors had already done their work; and the
symmetry, nay, even the utility of the vestment was destroyed.

"General Chasse wore a very good article;--I will say that for him," continued the mother.

"Of course he did!" said the Queen Harpy.  "Why should he not, seeing that the country paid
for it for him?  Well, ladies, who's for having a bit?"

"Oh my! you won't go for to cut them up," said the stout back.

"Won't I," said the scissors; and she immediately made another incision.  "Who's for having
a bit?  Don't all speak at once."

"I should like a morsel for a pincushion," said flaxen-haired Miss No. 1, a young lady about
nineteen, actuated by a general affection for all sword-bearing, fire-eating heroes.  "I should
like to have something to make me think of the poor general!"

Snip, snip went the scissors with professional rapidity, and a round piece was extracted from
the back of the calf of the left leg.  I shuddered with horror; and so did the Rev. Augustus
Horne with cold.

"I hardly think it's proper to cut them up," said Miss No. 2.

"Oh isn't it?" said the harpy.  "Then I'll do what's improper!"  And she got her finger and
thumb well through the holes in the scissors' handles.  As she spoke resolution was plainly
marked on her brow.

"Well, if they are to be cut up, I should certainly like a bit for a pen-wiper," said No. 2.
No. 2 was a literary young lady with a periodical correspondence, a journal, and an album.
Snip, snip went the scissors again, and the broad part of the upper right division afforded
ample materials for a pen-wiper.

Then the lady with the back, seeing that the desecration of the article had been completed,
plucked up heart of courage and put in her little request; "I think I might have a needle-case
out of it," said she, "just as a suvneer of the poor general"--and a long fragment cut rapidly
out of the waistband afforded her unqualified delight.

Mamma, with the hot face and untidy hair, came next.  "Well, girls," she said, "as you are
all served, I don't see why I'm to be left out.  Perhaps, Miss Grogram"--she was an old maid,
you see-- "perhaps, Miss Grogram, you could get me as much as would make a decent-sized reticule."

There was not the slightest difficulty in doing this.  The harpy in the centre again went to
work, snip, snip, and extracting from that portion of the affairs which usually sustained the
greater portion of Mr. Horne's weight two large round pieces of cloth, presented them to the
well-pleased matron.  "The general knew well where to get a bit of good broadcloth, certainly,"
said she, again feeling the pieces.

"And now for No. 1," said she whom I so absolutely hated; "I think there is still enough for
a pair of slippers.  There's nothing so nice for the house as good black cloth slippers that
are warm to the feet and don't show the dirt."  And so saying, she spread out on the floor
the lacerated remainders.

"There's a nice bit there," said young lady No. 2, poking at one of the pockets with the end
of her parasol.

"Yes," said the harpy, contemplating her plunder.  "But I'm thinking whether I couldn't get
leggings as well.  I always wear leggings in the thick of the winter."  And so she concluded
her operations, and there was nothing left but a melancholy skeleton of seams and buttons.

