RIDERS OF THE PURPLE SAGE

By Zane Grey

CHAPTER I. LASSITER

A sharp clip-crop of iron-shod hoofs deadened and died away, and clouds of yellow dust drifted
from under the cottonwoods out over the sage.

Jane Withersteen gazed down the wide purple slope with dreamy and troubled eyes. A rider had
just left her and it was his message that held her thoughtful and almost sad, awaiting the
churchmen who were coming to resent and attack her right to befriend a Gentile.

She wondered if the unrest and strife that had lately come to the little village of Cottonwoods
was to involve her. And then she sighed, remembering that her father had founded this remotest
border settlement of southern Utah and that he had left it to her. She owned all the ground
and many of the cottages. Withersteen House was hers, and the great ranch, with its thousands
of cattle, and the swiftest horses of the sage. To her belonged Amber Spring, the water which
gave verdure and beauty to the village and made living possible on that wild purple upland
waste. She could not escape being involved by whatever befell Cottonwoods.

That year, 1871, had marked a change which had been gradually coming in the lives of the peace-loving
Mormons of the border. Glaze--Stone Bridge--Sterling, villages to the north, had risen against
the invasion of Gentile settlers and the forays of rustlers. There had been opposition to the
one and fighting with the other. And now Cottonwoods had begun to wake and bestir itself and
grown hard.

Jane prayed that the tranquillity and sweetness of her life would not be permanently disrupted.
She meant to do so much more for her people than she had done. She wanted the sleepy quiet
pastoral days to last always. Trouble between the Mormons and the Gentiles of the community
would make her unhappy. She was Mormon-born, and she was a friend to poor and unfortunate Gentiles.
She wished only to go on doing good and being happy. And she thought of what that great ranch
meant to her. She loved it all--the grove of cottonwoods, the old stone house, the amber-tinted
water, and the droves of shaggy, dusty horses and mustangs, the sleek, clean-limbed, blooded
racers, and the browsing herds of cattle and the lean, sun-browned riders of the sage.

While she waited there she forgot the prospect of untoward change. The bray of a lazy burro
broke the afternoon quiet, and it was comfortingly suggestive of the drowsy farmyard, and the
open corrals, and the green alfalfa fields. Her clear sight intensified the purple sage-slope
as it rolled before her. Low swells of prairie-like ground sloped up to the west. Dark, lonely
cedar-trees, few and far between, stood out strikingly, and at long distances ruins of red
rocks. Farther on, up the gradual slope, rose a broken wall, a huge monument, looming dark
purple and stretching its solitary, mystic way, a wavering line that faded in the north. Here
to the westward was the light and color and beauty. Northward the slope descended to a dim
line of canyons from which rose an up-Hinging of the earth, not mountainous, but a vast heave
of purple uplands, with ribbed and fan-shaped walls, castle-crowned cliffs, and gray escarpments. By
thus gaining time, she hoped to come safe and sound to the end of
the national troubles.

At this period, the royalists in the interior of France expected day by day that the Revolution
would be ended on the morrow. This conviction was the ruin of very
many of them.

In spite of these difficulties, the countess had maintained her independence
very cleverly until the day when, by an inexplicable imprudence, she
closed her doors to her usual evening visitors.

Madame de Dey inspired so genuine and deep an interest, that the
persons who called upon her that evening expressed extreme anxiety
on being told that she was unable to receive them.

Then, with that frank curiosity which appears in provincial manners,
they inquired what misfortune, grief, or illness afflicted her.

In reply to these questions, an old housekeeper named Brigitte informed
them that her mistress had shut herself up in her room and would see
no one, not even the servants of the house.

The semi-cloistral existence of the inhabitants of a little town
creates so invincible a habit of analyzing and explaining the actions
of their neighbors, that after compassionating Madame de Dey (without
knowing whether she were happy or unhappy), they proceeded to search
for the reasons of this sudden retreat.

"If she were ill," said the first Inquisitive, "she would have sent
for the doctor; but the doctor has been all day long playing chess
with me.

He told me, laughing, that in these days there was but one malady,
and that was incurable."

This
joke was cautiously uttered.

Men, women, old men, and young girls, all set to work to explore the vast field of conjecture.
The next day, conjectures became suspicions. As life is all aboveboard in a little town, the
women were the first to learn that Brigitte had made larger purchases than usual in the market.
This fact could not be disputed: Brigitte had been seen there, very early in the morning; and,
extraordinary event! she had bought the only hare the market afforded.

Now all the town knew that Madame de Dey did not like game.

The hare became, therefore, the point of departure for a vast array of suspicions. The old
men who were taking their walks abroad, remarked a sort of concentrated activity about Madame
de Dey's premises, shown by the very precautions which the servants took to conceal it. The
foot-man was beating a carpet in the garden. The day before, no one would have noticed that
fact; but the carpet now became a corner-stone on which the whole
town built up its theories.

Each individual had his or her surmise.

The second day, on learning that Madame de Dey declared herself ill, the principal personages
of Carentan, assembled in the evening at the house of the mayor's
brother, an old married merchant, a man of strict integrity, greatly
respected, and for whom Madame de Dey had shown much esteem.

There all the aspirants for the hand of the rich widow had a tale to tell that was more or
less probable; and each expected to turn to his own profit the secret
event which he thus recounted.

For the first time Jane Withersteen felt Venters's real spirit. She wondered if she would love
this splendid youth. Then her emotion cooled to the sobering sense of the issue at stake.

"Venters, will you leave Cottonwoods at once and forever?" asked Tull, tensely.

"Why?" rejoined the rider.

"Because I order it."

Venters laughed in cool disdain.

The red leaped to Tull's dark cheek.

"If you don't go it means your ruin," he said, sharply.

"Ruin!" exclaimed Venters, passionately. "Haven't you already ruined me? What do you call ruin?
A year ago I was a rider. I had horses and cattle of my own. I had a good name in Cottonwoods.
And now when I come into the village to see this woman you set your men on me. You hound me.
You trail me as if I were a rustler. I've no more to lose--except my life."

"Will you leave Utah?"

"Oh! I know," went on Venters, tauntingly, "it galls you, the idea of beautiful Jane Withersteen
being friendly to a poor Gentile. You want her all yourself. You're a wiving Mormon. You have
use for her--and Withersteen House and Amber Spring and seven thousand head of cattle!"

Tull's hard jaw protruded, and rioting blood corded the veins of his neck.

"Once more. Will you go?"

"NO!"

"Then I'll have you whipped within an inch of your life," replied Tull, harshly. "I'll turn
you out in the sage. And if you ever come back you'll get worse."

Venters's agitated face grew coldly set and the bronze changed

Jane impulsively stepped forward. "Oh! Elder Tull!" she cried. "You won't do that!"

Tull lifted a shaking finger toward her.

"That'll do from you. Understand, you'll not be allowed to hold this boy to a friendship that's
offensive to your Bishop. Jane Withersteen, your father left you wealth and power. It has turned
your head. You haven't yet come to see the place of Mormon women. We've reasoned with you,
borne with you. We've patiently waited. We've let you have your fling, which is more than I
ever saw granted to a Mormon woman. But you haven't come to your senses. Now, once for all,
you can't have any further friendship with Venters. He's going to be whipped, and he's got
to leave Utah!"

"Oh! Don't whip him! It would be dastardly!" implored Jane, with slow certainty of her failing
courage.

Tull always blunted her spirit, and she grew conscious that she had feigned a boldness which
she did not possess. He loomed up now in different guise, not as a jealous suitor, but embodying
the mysterious despotism she had known from childhood--the power of her creed.

"Venters, will you take your whipping here or would you rather go out in the sage?" asked Tull.
He smiled a flinty smile that was more than inhuman, yet seemed to give out of its dark aloofness
a gleam of righteousness.

"I'll take it here--if I must," said Venters. "But by God!--Tull you'd better kill me outright.
That'll be a dear whipping for you and your praying Mormons. You'll make me another Lassiter!"

The strange glow, the austere light which radiated from Tull's face, might have been a holy
joy at the spiritual conception of exalted duty. But there was something more in him, barely
hidden, a something personal and sinister, a deep of himself, an engulfing abyss. As his religious
mood was fanatical and inexorable, so would his physical hate be merciless.

"Elder, I--I repent my words," Jane faltered. The religion in her, the long habit of obedience,
of humility, as well as agony of fear, spoke in her voice. "Spare the boy!" she whispered.

"You can't save him now," replied Tull stridently.

Her head was bowing to the inevitable. She was grasping the truth, when suddenly there came,
in inward constriction, a hardening of gentle forces within her breast. Like a steel bar it
was stiffening all that had been soft and weak in her. She felt a birth in her of something
new and unintelligible. Once more her strained gaze sought the sage-slopes. Jane Withersteen
loved that wild and purple wilderness. In times of sorrow it had been her strength, in happiness
its beauty was her continual delight. In her extremity she found herself murmuring, "Whence
cometh my help!" It was a prayer, as if forth from those lonely purple reaches and walls of
red and clefts of blue might ride a fearless man, neither creed-bound nor creed-mad, who would
hold up a restraining hand in the faces of her ruthless people.

The restless movements of Tull's men suddenly quieted down. Then followed a low whisper, a
rustle, a sharp exclamation.

"Look!" said one, pointing to the west.

"A rider!"

Jane Withersteen wheeled and saw a horseman, silhouetted against the western sky, coming riding
out of the sage. He had ridden down from the left, in the golden glare of the sun, and had
been unobserved till close at hand. An answer to her prayer!

"Do you know him? Does any one know him?" questioned Tull, hurriedly.

His men looked and looked, and one by one shook their heads.

"He's come from far," said one.

"Thet's a fine hoss," said another.

"A strange rider."

"Huh! he wears black leather," added a fourth.

With a wave of his hand, enjoining silence, Tull stepped forward in such a way that he concealed
Venters.

The rider reined in his mount, and with a lithe forward-slipping action appeared to reach the
ground in one long step. It was a peculiar movement in its quickness and inasmuch that while
performing it the rider did not swerve in the slightest from a square front to the group before
him.

"Look!" hoarsely whispered one of Tull's companions. "He packs two black-butted guns--low down--they're
hard to see--black akin them black chaps."

"A gun-man!" whispered another. "Fellers, careful now about movin' your hands."

The stranger's slow approach might have been a mere leisurely manner of gait or the cramped
short steps of a rider unused to walking; yet, as well, it could have been the guarded advance
of one who took no chances with men.

"Hello, stranger!" called Tull. No welcome was in this greeting only a gruff curiosity.

The rider responded with a curt nod. The wide brim of a black sombrero cast a dark shade over
his face. For a moment he closely regarded Tull and his comrades, and then, halting in his
slow walk, he seemed to relax.

"Evenin', ma'am," he said to Jane, and removed his sombrero with quaint grace.

Jane, greeting him, looked up into a face that she trusted instinctively and which riveted
her attention. It had all the characteristics of the range rider's--the leanness, the red burn
of the sun, and the set changelessness that came from years of silence and solitude. But it
was not these which held her, rather the intensity of his gaze, a strained weariness, a piercing
wistfulness of keen, gray sight, as if the man was forever looking for that which he never
found. Jane's subtle woman's intuition, even in that brief instant, felt a sadness, a hungering,
a secret.

"Jane Withersteen, ma'am?" he inquired.

"Yes," she replied.

"The water here is yours?"

"Yes."

"May I water my horse?"

"Certainly. There's the trough."

"But mebbe if you knew who I was--" He hesitated, with his glance on the listening men. "Mebbe
you wouldn't let me water him--though I ain't askin' none for myself."

"Stranger, it doesn't matter who you are. Water your horse. And if you are thirsty and hungry
come into my house."

"Thanks, ma'am. I can't accept for myself--but for my tired horse--"

Trampling of hoofs interrupted the rider. More restless movements on the part of Tull's men
broke up the little circle, exposing the prisoner Venters.

"Mebbe I've kind of hindered somethin'--for a few moments, perhaps?" inquired the rider.

"Yes," replied Jane Withersteen, with a throb in her voice.

She felt the drawing power of his eyes; and then she saw him look at the bound Venters, and
at the men who held him, and their leader.

"In this here country all the rustlers an' thieves an' cut-throats an' gun-throwers an' all-round
no-good men jest happen to be Gentiles. Ma'am, which of the no-good class does that young feller
belong to?"

"He belongs to none of them. He's an honest boy."

"You KNOW that, ma'am?"

"Yes--yes."

"Then what has he done to get tied up that way?"

His clear and distinct question, meant for Tull as well as for Jane Withersteen, stilled the
restlessness and brought a momentary silence.

"Ask him," replied Jane, her voice rising high.

The rider stepped away from her, moving out with the same slow, measured stride in which he
had approached, and the fact that his action placed her wholly to one side, and him no nearer
to Tull and his men, had a penetrating significance.

"Young feller, speak up," he said to Venters.

"Here stranger, this's none of your mix," began Tull. "Don't try any interference. You've been
asked to drink and eat. That's more than you'd have got in any other village of the Utah border.
Water your horse and be on your way."

"Easy--easy--I ain't interferin' yet," replied the rider. The tone of his voice had undergone
a change. A different man had spoken. Where, in addressing Jane, he had been mild and gentle,
now, with his first speech to Tull, he was dry, cool, biting. "I've lest stumbled onto a queer
deal. Seven Mormons all packin' guns, an' a Gentile tied with a rope, an' a woman who swears
by his honesty! Queer, ain't that?"

"Queer or not, it's none of your business," retorted Tull.

"Where I was raised a woman's word was law. I ain't quite outgrowed that yet."

Tull fumed between amaze and anger.

"Meddler, we have a law here something different from woman's whim--Mormon law!... Take care
you don't transgress it."

"To hell with your Mormon law!"

The deliberate speech marked the rider's further change, this time from kindly interest to
an awakening menace. It produced a transformation in Tull and his companions. The leader gasped
and staggered backward at a blasphemous affront to an institution he held most sacred. The
man Jerry, holding the horses, dropped the bridles and froze in his tracks. Like posts the
other men stood watchful-eyed, arms hanging rigid, all waiting.

"Speak up now, young man. What have you done to be roped that way?"

"It's a damned outrage!" burst out Venters. "I've done no wrong. I've offended this Mormon
Elder by being a friend to that woman."

"Ma'am, is it true--what he says?" asked the rider of Jane, but his quiveringly alert eyes
never left the little knot of quiet men.

"True? Yes, perfectly true," she answered.

"Well, young man, it seems to me that bein' a friend to such a woman would be what you wouldn't
want to help an' couldn't help.... What's to be done to you for it?"

"They intend to whip me. You know what that means--in Utah!" 

"The next town's Geelong," he said, "and it's a good fourteen miles
away.

You might have sprinted along that sand in record time when somebody's life was trembling in
the balance, but that doesn't say you can walk fourteen miles on a rotten road on a broiling
hot day. And if I wished to be as personal as you are I'd point out that a burst boot doesn't
help make the way any easier."

"Bowled out first shot," I told him.

"What's your little game?"

"To use your own inimitable phraseology, my little game amounts to
this.

I've taken a violent fancy to you, Carstairs, and I want to keep
you by me.

I don't think your luck's been too good lately, but between us I
fancy we can mend it.

If you want to go into Geelong all you've got to do is wait and come
with me.

I'm going back shortly, and I'm sure you'd feel much better riding
in a motor than travelling on foot."

"Now you mention it," I said, "I can't see why I shouldn't. The only
trouble is that some of your excitable friends might see me in your
company and include me in the sudden-death stakes."

"Quite likely," Bryce said, with a smile. "I wouldn't be at all surprised if they hid behind
a convenient hedge and potted us as we passed.

But you needn't come if that's what you're afraid of."

"I'll forgive you this time," I rattled on, "just because you've had such an exciting experience,
but don't ever hint anything like that again. I don't know what fear's
like."

"Self-praise," said Bryce, "is sometimes the highest form of recommendation. At any rate it shows
you've overcome fear, if only the fear of criticism.

But to be serious, Carstairs, there's trouble ahead of both of us. My pursuers are getting
very game, tackling me in front of a third person, and I've got a funny sort of feeling that
they'll catch me napping one of these days. No matter what you say or do, you can't alter the fact
that you've identified yourself with me, and that means that you're
running just the same amount of danger that I am.

You don't look too prosperous yourself.

What about joining forces with me and sharing the plunder? Of course I can make it worth your
while."

"Plunder," I said. "What do you mean! Are you running up against
the law?"

"If it's any relief to you to know it, I'm not. I rather fancy I've
got the law on my side."

"I was merely enquiring what inducements you had to offer.

What do you call'making it worth my while?'"

When I turned down his first tentative offer I had quite made up my
mind that he wanted to engage me as a sort of super-butler with sudden
death included amongst the risks of service, and I had no intention
of mixing up in other people's quarrels on such terms.

When I questioned him directly about it I got a pleasant surprise.

"Well, my idea of making it worth your while is something like£ 100
for three months.

That's about as long as I'll require you. After that you can'go to hell or to Connaught,'whichever you
prefer."

"That's nice hearing," I told him.

"And, I suppose, any time I take an extra risk I get something pour
boire?"

He nodded cheerfully.

"That's my offer, Carstairs," he said. "What do you say to it?"

"It's so damned alluring," I answered, "that I'm frightened to look at it too close. I don't
mind admitting that I'm about as hard up as I can be. As a matter of fact I've not the least
idea where I'm going to get my next meal.

All of which makes your offer doubly inviting.

But I don't want to jump at it in hot blood. I want time to think
it over.

I want to stand off and wave my hat at it and say,'Scat, you brute!'and see if it'll shoo off. I'm
frightened that it's not real, and that I'll take it on and then wake up. Will you give me
time to wake up?"

"If you'll drive in with me the two of us can dine together," Bryce
suggested.

"That ought to give you time to wake up."

"I can't ask anything fairer than that," I agreed. "When do we start?"

"No time like the present. I've got the car paddocked down near the reserve. It's only a matter
of walking around the bluff. Come on."

I went along with him without comment, though I noticed that the last thing he did was to bend down
and pick up the piece of wood which had so excited my curiosity earlier in the proceedings.
It was small enough to slip into his pocket, and this he did without a word either of apology or
explanation.

"It's a mighty innocent piece of wood," I thought, "but I'll bet all
Australia to an albatross that it's mixed up in the plot."

As we moved around the foot of the bluff I couldn't help turning the situation over in my mind.
Half an hour before I had been a wanderer on the face of the earth,
a man with no special abilities and no outstanding vices.

In that short space of time I had saved one man's life, nearly taken that of another, and seemed
in a fair way to make money out of my twin attributes of steady nerves and good shooting. I was
still thinking in this strain when we rounded the bluff and commenced to crawl across the intervening
stretch of spinifex grass.

I say "crawl" advisedly. Bryce was far too heavy to do more than lumber along and my feet were
steadily getting worse. The spinifex grew knee-high and its roots extended in all directions. They
were hard, knobby things that protruded through the loose sand, and every time I took my attention
off the ground for an instant I stubbed my toe against one or the other of them. Bryce panted
and puffed and wheezed and seemed more like an hippopotamus than ever. Whatever might be the gain
as far as decency was concerned, his clothes, from a spectacular point of view, made him look
worse than ever. His collar was tight, and that made his face the color of a scraped carrot,
and his coat and trousers clung to him in the most unexpected places--
just where they shouldn't. To make a long story short, we came at
last to the edge of the spinifex, and thence dropped steadily down
into the hollow that contained the reserve.

I
picked out Bryce's car right off. It was painted a battleship grey, and if cars can have a personality,
this had such another as its owner. It wasn't slim-- there was nothing of the racer about it. It was
squatly built and had just the same heavy and humorous look as Bryce himself. It stood out
from the other cars like a hunch-back amongst a line of athletes. "That's my car," said Bryce proudly.
"She's not much to look at, but she's just the sweetest runner you've seen." I nodded. I was
quite open to conviction.

CHAPTER II. AN OLD FRIEND. Hitherto events had moved so swiftly that I hadn't had time to look calmly
at the situation, but once we settled down in the car and Barwon
Heads dropped into the dust behind us, I began to think rather seriously.

It was perfectly obvious, even to a more clouded intelligence than
mine, that there was something mysterious, if not shady, about my
prospective employer.

Despite his assurance that the law was on his side, I had grave doubts.

If everything was perfectly square and above board why the deuce didn't
he report the affair to the police and give them the task of looking
after him, instead of hiring me at an exorbitant wage?

He seemed anxious to fight shy of publicity in any shape or form and, though he had been very cordial,
even familiar with me, his very apparent frankness and joviality had awakened my suspicions.
There was something fishy going on, and that something, whatever it was, centred round the piece
of wood that I had so casually kicked out of the sand. It struck me all of a heap that nothing had
really begun to happen until I had unearthed it. As soon as Bryce had seen where I was sitting,
he had started to run inshore, the other man had stationed himself behind the rocks, the curtain
had been rung up and the play had begun.

Now the question was what part did the piece of wood play in the game? Bryce, I felt sure, could
clear the mystery up with a word, but I was certain that it would be long
before he would say that word.

The car was all and more than he had said. It had speed, it was
comfortable, and its mechanism was far less complicated than any I had
yet seen.

We ate up distance in fine style. Bryce seemed to have no nerves at all, for more than once
he tore round corners on two wheels while I clung to the side of
the car and swore at him. He grinned cheerfully over his shoulder
at me and asked me if I were nervous.

I laughed back at him with as much sang-froid as I could muster. I had no objection to risking my
life once in a while when there was good pay at the end of it, but
I couldn't see the sense of tempting Providence just for the sheer
fun of the thing.

Of course, if we did spill, it would be all right with Bryce-- he was so fat that he'd just bounce--
but I was slimmer, and I knew from experience that I had very brittle
bones.

Once in the Solomons, when a wild boar charged me, I lay for weeks
in a trader's hut waiting for an obdurate fracture to knit up again.
Some idea of the furious pace at which Bryce pushed the car along
can be guessed from the fact that we did the fourteen miles in something
over twenty minutes.

It had been quite half-past eleven when we left the Heads, and the clock
in the car wanted a few minutes to twelve when we sailed over the
bridge and up Moorabool-street.

We cleared a stationary tram by inches, twisted in an S curve to avoid a farmer's waggon and then,
with a heart-rending grind, Bryce threw over his clutch and slowed
down to a snail-like crawl of ten miles an hour. "This asphalt paving
makes a great motor track," Bryce said to me, "but there's speed-laws
in existence here.

That's the trouble of it. When a man has a nice track he's interfered with, and when there
isn't anyone to meddle with him it's ten to one that he's crawling
over something like a corduroy road."

"Corduroy!" I said, and sat up and looked at him. I knew what he meant. Any man who has ever
travelled the heart-breaking log-roads of the interior New Guinea
goldfields does not need to be told what'corduroy'is.

It is an ever-present memory, an astonishment and a nightmare. Bryce
did not speak from hearsay-- the note in his voice told me that-- but was
talking from experience garnered at great cost, both of money and
energy.

"Corduroy," he repeated after me. "Doesn't that sound familiar to
you, Carstairs?" "It does," I said with emphasis. "But how the deuce----?"
And then I stopped dead. Bryce?

Bryce? What was familiar about that name? Bryce and New Guinea and----. I had it. And Walter
Carstairs. "Ever heard of Walter Carstairs?" I questioned. "The minute
I heard your name I knew you," Bryce said.

"Ever heard of Walter Carstairs? Why, he was the best friend I ever had. He saved my life in the early
days of the Woodlarks."

"According to the Dad," I said, looking him straight in the face, "it was the other way about."
He laughed happily. "Jimmy, I'm losing my memory if that's so. But
whatever happened to him?

I lost sight of him the last ten years or so." "You would," I answered. "He stuck to the Islands.
He had a life's work planned out, but he got cut-off in the Solomons
before he had reached finality.

I carried it on after that, came all the way from the Klondyke to
take it up.

I got through but it took every penny I had, and that's why this morning
when I came across you I only had a boot and a half to my feet."
"Well, well," he said kindly, "that's all changed now."

"I don't know so much about it," I told him. "You might have been
the best friend the Dad ever had, but that doesn't say you're going
to keep me.

What I get I work for. I'll take charity from no man living." Again he laughed, and his fat face
crinkled up into little rolls of flesh until he looked as if he had
double chins all the way up to his eyes.

I knew
now why he had been so familiar with me earlier in the day.

He was a sunny-natured old chap always, even in the hard, toilsome
New Guinea days, and I suppose his heart went out to me as the son
of an old comrade in arms, doubly so-- perhaps because I had saved
his life.

On the whole I rather wished I hadn't. It complicated matters so. It made me feel bound to give
him a hand, whether his enterprise was shady or not.

If he had turned to me then and said, "I suppose I can count on you
all right?"

I would have been torn between duty and inclination. He did nothing
of the sort.

He made no reference to his offer of service, in fact he seemed to have completely forgotten
it, and I thought it just as well to say nothing.

The way he forebore from seizing a perfectly obvious advantage sent him up fifty per cent.
in my estimation, and by the time we had reached the heart of the city I was quite willing to
do anything he asked me.

"I'll park the car," he said, "and then we'll go off and have some
dinner." "Will we?" I said and eyed my tattered raiment ruefully.
"I don't fancy I'm dressed for dinner."

"Um!" he said. "You're not. I'd quite overlooked that.

That bars a public dinner. I don't fancy you'll be able to make much of one if you come down to my
place. The cook's away. I didn't expect to be back so soon." "Cook or no cook," I told him, "if
you've got anything eatable in the house I'll guarantee to turn it
up right.

Give me the run of the kitchen and put me next to the meat-safe, and
you'll see wonders. I don't know how you feel, but I'm so hungry
that I'd make a meal off a pair of kid boots."

"In that case, Carstairs, I think I'd better take you home and see what sort of a culinary expert
you are." With that he twisted the car about and headed out for the eastern suburbs. The
place was unfamiliar to me at the time-- I hadn't the faintest idea of
the street the man lived in-- and in the face of what happened later
I made no enquiries.

As a matter of fact the rush of events crowded all such petty details
out of my mind.

"Can you drive a car?" he asked abruptly. "I can drive anything but
an Andean mule," I told him.

"I tried once in the Chilian foot-hills, but after the animal dislocated my shoulder I sort
of lost heart."

"I gather from the retiring modesty of your last remark," he smiled,
"that you consider yourself an expert as regards all other forms of
animal and mechanical traction."

"Quite so. I can always do anything on principle, and I've yet to meet the job that I'm unwilling
to tackle!" He glanced sideways at me. I didn't like the look he gave
me.

There was too much of appraisement in it, something that was alien
to the nature of the man, a sort of cold, calculating shrewdness that
made me wonder again if I had not been mistaken in my estimate of
him and the extent of his good-nature.

"If you keep on admiring me instead of looking where you're going,"
I hinted, "you'll end up in a funeral.

That
motor-bus isn't the sort of thing I'd care to hit." He twisted the wheel over a fraction and edged
out beyond the motor-bus before he replied. "Life is full of thrills," he remarked when at
last we reached the comparative security of open space.

There was a challenge in his voice that I thought it well to ignore.
"It is," I agreed. "Too much so."

For all the lightness of his speech and the careless ease with which he took unnecessary and avoidable
risks I had a feeling that there was deep design under everything he
did.

Though I couldn't have proved it if I'd been asked, I felt sure that
he was trying my nerve.

After all there's no better test of that than the crowded traffic of a big city. I've met men who'd
cheerfully face a crowd of howling cannibals and yet would develop
a very bad case of jumps if asked to cross a street roaring and humming
with traffic.

Yes, clearly he was testing me. "By this time the riders of the night shift know what happened
to-day. But Lassiter will likely keep out of their way."

"Bern, who is Lassiter? He's only a name to me--a terrible name."

"Who is he? I don't know, Jane. Nobody I ever met knows him. He talks a little like a Texan,
like Milly Erne. Did you note that?"

"Yes. How strange of him to know of her! And she lived here ten years and has been dead two.
Bern, what do you know of Lassiter? Tell me what he has done--why you spoke of him to Tull--threatening
to become another Lassiter yourself?"

"Jane, I only heard things, rumors, stories, most of which I disbelieved. At Glaze his name
was known, but none of the riders or ranchers I knew there ever met him. At Stone Bridge I
never heard him mentioned. But at Sterling and villages north of there he was spoken of often.
I've never been in a village which he had been known to visit. There were many conflicting
stories about him and his doings. Some said he had shot up this and that Mormon village, and
others denied it. I'm inclined to believe he has, and you know how Mormons hide the truth.
But there was one feature about Lassiter upon which all agree--that he was what riders in this
country call a gun-man. He's a man with a marvelous quickness and accuracy in the use of a
Colt. And now that I've seen him I know more. Lassiter was born without fear. I watched him
with eyes which saw him my friend. I'll never forget the moment I recognized him from what
had been told me of his crouch before the draw. It was then I yelled his name. I believe that
yell saved Tull's life. At any rate, I know this, between Tull and death then there was not
the breadth of the littlest hair. If he or any of his men had moved a finger downward--"

Venters left his meaning unspoken, but at the suggestion Jane shuddered.

The pale afterglow in the west darkened with the merging of twilight into night. The sage now
spread out black and gloomy. One dim star glimmered in the southwest sky. The sound of trotting
horses had ceased, and there was silence broken only by a faint, dry pattering of cottonwood
leaves in the soft night wind.

Into this peace and calm suddenly broke the high-keyed yelp of a coyote, and from far off in
the darkness came the faint answering note of a trailing mate.

"Hello! the sage-dogs are barking," said Venters.

"I don't like to hear them," replied Jane. "At night, sometimes when I lie awake, listening
to the long mourn or breaking bark or wild howl, I think of you asleep somewhere in the sage,
and my heart aches."

"Jane, you couldn't listen to sweeter music, nor could I have a better bed."

"Just think! Men like Lassiter and you have no home, no comfort, no rest, no place to lay your
weary heads. Well!... Let us be patient. Tull's anger may cool, and time may help us. You might
do some service to the village--who can tell? Suppose you discovered the long-unknown hiding-place
of Oldring and his band, and told it to my riders? That would disarm Tull's ugly hints and
put you in favor. For years my riders have trailed the tracks of stolen cattle. You know as
well as I how dearly we've paid for our ranges in this wild country. Oldring drives our cattle
down into the network of deceiving canyons, and somewhere far to the north or east he drives
them up and out to Utah markets. If you will spend time in Deception Pass try to find the trails."

"Jane, I've thought of that. I'll try."

"I must go now. And it hurts, for now I'll never be sure of seeing you again. But to-morrow, Bern?"

"To-morrow surely. I'll watch for Lassiter and ride in with him."

"Good night."

Then she left him and moved away, a white, gliding shape that soon vanished in the shadows.

Venters waited until the faint slam of a door assured him she had reached the house, and then,
taking up his rifle, he noiselessly slipped through the bushes, down the knoll, and on under
the dark trees to the edge of the grove. The sky was now turning from gray to blue; stars had
begun to lighten the earlier blackness; and from the wide flat sweep before him blew a cool
wind, fragrant with the breath of sage. Keeping close to the edge of the cottonwoods, he went
swiftly and silently westward. The grove was long, and he had not reached the end when he heard
something that brought him to a halt. Low padded thuds told him horses were coming this way.
He sank down in the gloom, waiting, listening. Much before he had expected, judging from sound,
to his amazement he descried horsemen near at hand. They were riding along the border of the
sage, and instantly he knew the hoofs of the horses were muffled. Then the pale starlight afforded
him indistinct sight of the riders. But his eyes were keen and used to the dark, and by peering
closely he recognized the huge bulk and black-bearded visage of Oldring and the lithe, supple
form of the rustler's lieutenant, a masked rider. They passed on; the darkness swallowed them.
Then, farther out on the sage, a dark, compact body of horsemen went by, almost without sound,
almost like specters, and they, too, melted into the night.

CHAPTER III. AMBER SPRING

No unusual circumstances was it for Oldring and some of his men to visit Cottonwoods in the
broad light of day, but for him to prowl about in the dark with the hoofs of his horses muffled
meant that mischief was brewing. Moreover, to Venters the presence of the masked rider with
Oldring seemed especially ominous. For about this man there was mystery, he seldom rode through
the village, and when he did ride through it was swiftly; riders seldom met by day on the sage,
but wherever he rode there always followed deeds as dark and mysterious as the mask he wore.
Oldring's band did not confine themselves to the rustling of cattle.

Venters lay low in the shade of the cottonwoods, pondering this chance meeting, and not for
many moments did he consider it safe to move on. Then, with sudden impulse, he turned the other
way and went back along the grove. When he reached the path leading to Jane's home he decided
to go down to the village. So he hurried onward, with quick soft steps. Once beyond the grove
he entered the one and only street. It was wide, lined with tall poplars, and under each row
of trees, inside the foot-path, were ditches where ran the water from Jane Withersteen's spring.

Between the trees twinkled lights of cottage candles, and far down flared bright windows of
the village stores. When Venters got closer to these he saw knots of men standing together
in earnest conversation. The usual lounging on the corners and benches and steps was not in
evidence. Keeping in the shadow Venters went closer and closer until he could hear voices.
But he could not distinguish what was said. He recognized many Mormons, and looked hard for
Tull and his men, but looked in vain. Venters concluded that the rustlers had not passed along
the village street. No doubt these earnest men were discussing Lassiter's coming. But Venters
felt positive that Tull's intention toward himself that day had not been and would not be revealed.

So Venters, seeing there was little for him to learn, began retracing his steps. The church
was dark, Bishop Dyer's home next to it was also dark, and likewise Tull's cottage. Upon almost
any night at this hour there would be lights here, and Venters marked the unusual omission.

As he was about to pass out of the street to skirt the grove, he once more slunk down at the
sound of trotting horses. Presently he descried two mounted men riding toward him. He hugged
the shadow of a tree. Again the starlight, brighter now, aided him, and he made out Tull's
stalwart figure, and beside him the short, froglike shape of the rider Jerry. They were silent,
and they rode on to disappear.

Venters went his way with busy, gloomy mind, revolving events of the day, trying to reckon
those brooding in the night. His thoughts overwhelmed him. Up in that dark grove dwelt a woman
who had been his friend. And he skulked about her home, gripping a gun stealthily as an Indian,
a man without place or people or purpose. Above her hovered the shadow of grim, hidden, secret
power. No queen could have given more royally out of a bounteous store than Jane Withersteen
gave her people, and likewise to those unfortunates whom her people hated. She asked only the
divine right of all women--freedom; to love and to live as her heart willed. And yet prayer
and her hope were vain.

"For years I've seen a storm clouding over her and the village of Cottonwoods," muttered Venters,
as he strode on. "Soon it'll burst. I don't like the prospects." That night the villagers whispered
in the street--and night-riding rustlers muffled horses--and Tull was at work in secret--and
out there in the sage hid a man who meant something terrible--Lassiter!

Venters passed the black cottonwoods, and, entering the sage, climbed the gradual slope. He
kept his direction in line with a western star. From time to time he stopped to listen and
heard only the usual familiar bark of coyote and sweep of wind and rustle of sage. Presently
a low jumble of rocks loomed up darkly somewhat to his right, and, turning that way, he whistled
softly. Out of the rocks glided a dog that leaped and whined about him. He climbed over rough,
broken rock, picking his way carefully, and then went down. Here it was darker, and sheltered
from the wind. A white object guided him. It was another dog, and this one was asleep, curled
up between a saddle and a pack. The animal awoke and thumped his tail in greeting. Venters
placed the saddle for a pillow, rolled in his blankets, with his face upward to the stars.
The white dog snuggled close to him. The other whined and pattered a few yards to the rise
of ground and there crouched on guard. And in that wild covert Venters shut his eyes under
the great white stars and intense vaulted blue, bitterly comparing their loneliness to his
own, and fell asleep.

When he awoke, day had dawned and all about him was bright steel-gray. The air had a cold tang.
Arising, he greeted the fawning dogs and stretched his cramped body, and then, gathering together
bunches of dead sage sticks, he lighted a fire. Strips of dried beef held to the blaze for
a moment served him and the dogs. He drank from a canteen. There was nothing else in his outfit;
he had grown used to a scant fire. Then he sat over the fire, palms outspread, and waited.
Waiting had been his chief occupation for months, and he scarcely knew what he waited for unless
it was the passing of the hours. But now he sensed action in the immediate present; the day
promised another meeting with Lassiter and Lane, perhaps news of the rustlers; on the morrow
he meant to take the trail to Deception Pass.

And while he waited he talked to his dogs. He called them Ring and Whitie; they were sheep-dogs,
half collie, half deerhound, superb in build, perfectly trained. It seemed that in his fallen
fortunes these dogs understood the nature of their value to him, and governed their affection
and faithfulness accordingly. Whitie watched him with somber eyes of love, and Ring, crouched
on the little rise of ground above, kept tireless guard. When the sun rose, the white dog took
the place of the other, and Ring went to sleep at his master's feet.

By and by Venters rolled up his blankets and tied them and his meager pack together, then climbed
out to look for his horse. He saw him, presently, a little way off in the sage, and went to
fetch him. In that country, where every rider boasted of a fine mount and was eager for a race,
where thoroughbreds dotted the wonderful grazing ranges, Venters rode a horse that was sad
proof of his misfortunes.

Then, with his back against a stone, Venters faced the east, and, stick in hand and idle blade,
he waited. The glorious sunlight filled the valley with purple fire. Before him, to left, to
right, waving, rolling, sinking, rising, like low swells of a purple sea, stretched the sage.
Out of the grove of cottonwoods, a green patch on the purple, gleamed the dull red of Jane
Withersteen's old stone house. And from there extended the wide green of the village gardens
and orchards marked by the graceful poplars; and farther down shone the deep, dark richness
of the alfalfa fields. Numberless red and black and white dots speckled the sage, and these
were cattle and horses.

So, watching and waiting, Venters let the time wear away. At length he saw a horse rise above
a ridge, and he knew it to be Lassiter's black. Climbing to the highest rock, so that he would
show against the sky-line, he stood and waved his hat. The almost instant turning of Lassiter's
horse attested to the quickness of that rider's eye. Then Venters climbed down, saddled his
horse, tied on his pack, and, with a word to his dogs, was about to ride out to meet Lassiter,
when he concluded to wait for him there, on higher ground, where the outlook was commanding.

It had been long since Venters had experienced friendly greeting from a man. Lassiter's warmed
in him something that had grown cold from neglect. And when he had returned it, with a strong
grip of the iron hand that held his, and met the gray eyes, he knew that Lassiter and he were
to be friends.

"Venters, let's talk awhile before we go down there," said Lassiter, slipping his bridle. "I
ain't in no hurry. Them's sure fine dogs you've got." With a rider's eye he took in the points
of Venter's horse, but did not speak his thought. "Well, did anythin' come off after I left
you last night?"

Venters told him about the rustlers.

"I was snug hid in the sage," replied Lassiter, "an' didn't see or hear no one. Oldrin's got
a high hand here, I reckon. It's no news up in Utah how he holes in canyons an' leaves no track."
Lassiter was silent a moment. "Me an' Oldrin' wasn't exactly strangers some years back when
he drove cattle into Bostil's Ford, at the head of the Rio Virgin. But he got harassed there
an' now he drives some place else."

"Lassiter, you knew him? Tell me, is he Mormon or Gentile?"

"I can't say. I've knowed Mormons who pretended to be Gentiles."

"No Mormon ever pretended that unless he was a rustler," declared Venters.

"Mebbe so."

"It's a hard country for any one, but hardest for Gentiles. Did you ever know or hear of a
Gentile prospering in a Mormon community?"

"I never did."

"Well, I want to get out of Utah. I've a mother living in Illinois. I want to go home. It's
eight years now."

The older man's sympathy moved Venters to tell his story. He had left Quincy, run off to seek
his fortune in the gold fields had never gotten any farther than Salt Lake City, wandered here
and there as helper, teamster, shepherd, and drifted southward over the divide and across the
barrens and up the rugged plateau through the passes to the last border settlements. Here he
became a rider of the sage, had stock of his own, and for a time prospered, until chance threw
him in the employ of Jane Withersteen.

"Lassiter, I needn't tell you the rest."

"Well, it'd be no news to me. I know Mormons. I've seen their women's strange love en' patience
en' sacrifice an' silence en' whet I call madness for their idea of God. An' over against that
I've seen the tricks of men. They work hand in hand, all together, an' in the dark. No man
can hold out against them, unless he takes to packin' guns. For Mormons are slow to kill. That's
the only good I ever seen in their religion. Venters, take this from me, these Mormons ain't
just right in their minds. Else could a Mormon marry one woman when he already has a wife,
an' call it duty?"

"Lassiter, you think as I think," returned Venters.

"How'd it come then that you never throwed a gun on Tull or some of them?" inquired the rider,
curiously.

"Jane pleaded with me, begged me to be patient, to overlook. She even took my guns from me.
I lost all before I knew it," replied Venters, with the red color in his face. "But, Lassiter,
listen. Out of the wreck I saved a Winchester, two Colts, and plenty of shells. I packed these
down into Deception Pass. There, almost every day for six months, I have practiced with my
rifle till the barrel burnt my hands. Practised the draw--the firing of a Colt, hour after hour!"

"Now that's interestin' to me," said Lassiter, with a quick uplift of his head and a concentration
of his gray gaze on Venters. "Could you throw a gun before you began that practisin'?"

"Yes. And now..." Venters made a lightning-swift movement.

Lassiter smiled, and then his bronzed eyelids narrowed till his eyes seemed mere gray slits.
"You'll kill Tull!" He did not question; he affirmed.

"I promised Jane Withersteen I'd try to avoid Tull. I'll keep my word. But sooner or later
Tull and I will meet. As I feel now, if he even looks at me I'll draw!"

"I reckon so. There'll be hell down there, presently." He paused a moment and flicked a sage-brush
with his quirt. "Venters, seein' as you're considerable worked up, tell me Milly Erne's story."

Venters's agitation stilled to the trace of suppressed eagerness in Lassiter's query.

"Milly Erne's story? Well, Lassiter, I'll tell you what I know. Milly Erne had been in Cottonwoods
years when I first arrived there, and most of what I tell you happened before my arrival. I
got to know her pretty well. She was a slip of a woman, and crazy on religion. I conceived
an idea that I never mentioned--I thought she was at heart more Gentile than Mormon. But she
passed as a Mormon, and certainly she had the Mormon woman's locked lips. You know, in every
Mormon village there are women who seem mysterious to us, but about Milly there was more than
the ordinary mystery. When she came to Cottonwoods she had a beautiful little girl whom she
loved passionately. Milly was not known openly in Cottonwoods as a Mormon wife. That she really
was a Mormon wife I have no doubt. Perhaps the Mormon's other wife or wives would not acknowledge
Milly. Such things happen in these villages. Mormon wives wear yokes, but they get jealous.
Well, whatever had brought Milly to this country--love or madness of religion--she repented
of it. She gave up teaching the village school. She quit the church. And she began to fight
Mormon upbringing for her baby girl. Then the Mormons put on the screws--slowly, as is their
way. At last the child disappeared. 'Lost' was the report. The child was stolen, I know that.
So do you. That wrecked Milly Erne. But she lived on in hope. She became a slave. She worked
her heart and soul and life out to get back her child. She never heard of it again. Then she
sank.... I can see her now, a frail thing, so transparent you could almost look through her--white
like ashes--and her eyes!... Her eyes have always haunted me. She had one real friend--Jane
Withersteen. But Jane couldn't mend a broken heart, and Milly died."

For moments Lassiter did not speak, or turn his head.

"The man!" he exclaimed, presently, in husky accents.

"I haven't the slightest idea who the Mormon was," replied Venters; "nor has any Gentile in
Cottonwoods."

"Does Jane Withersteen know?"

"Yes. But a red-hot running-iron couldn't burn that name out of her!"

Without further speech Lassiter started off, walking his horse and Venters followed with his
dogs. Half a mile down the slope they entered a luxuriant growth of willows, and soon came
into an open space carpeted with grass like deep green velvet. The rushing of water and singing
of birds filled their ears. Venters led his comrade to a shady bower and showed him Amber Spring.
It was a magnificent outburst of clear, amber water pouring from a dark, stone-lined hole.
Lassiter knelt and drank, lingered there to drink again. He made no comment, but Venters did
not need words. Next to his horse a rider of the sage loved a spring. And this spring was the
most beautiful and remarkable known to the upland riders of southern Utah. It was the spring
that made old Withersteen a feudal lord and now enabled his daughter to return the toll which
her father had exacted from the toilers of the sage. 

By the time the work was done, the rains were less frequent, though it still came in showers,
and those that were still more favourable to vegetation. In that fortnight the plants on the
mount had made great advances, showing the exuberance and growth of a tropical climate. It sometimes,
nay, it often happens, that when the sun is the most genial for vegetation,
moisture is wanting to aid its power, and, in some respects, to counteract
its influence.

These long and periodical droughts, however, are not so much owing to heat as to other and
local causes, Mark now began to hope, as the spring advanced, that his little territory was
to be exempt, in a great measure, from the curse of droughts, the trades, and some other causes
that to him were unknown, bringing clouds so often that not only shed their rain upon his
garden, but which served in a great measure to mitigate a heat that, without shade of some sort
or other, would be really intolerable.

With a view to the approaching summer, our mariners turned their attention to the constructing
of a tent within the crater. They got some old sails and some spars ashore, and soon had a
spacious, as well as a comfortable habitation of this sort erected. Not only did they spread
a spacious tent for themselves, within the crater, but they erected another, or a sort of canopy
rather, on its outside, for the use of the animals, which took refuge beneath it, during the
heats of the day, with an avidity that proved how welcome it was.

This outside shed, or canopy, required a good deal of care in its construction, to resist the
wind, while that inside scarce ever felt the breeze. This want of wind, or of air in motion,
indeed, formed the most serious objection to the crater, as a place of residence, in the hot
months; and the want of breeze that was suffered in the tent, set
Mark to work to devise expedients for building some sort of tent,
or habitation, on the in net itself, where it would be always cool,
provided one could get a protection from the fierce rays of the sun.

After a good deal of search, Mark selected a spot on the'Summit,'as he began to term the place, and
pitched his tent on, it. Holes were made in the soft rocks, and pieces of spars were inserted, to
answer for posts.

With a commencement as solid as this, it was not difficult to make the walls of the tent (or
marquee would be the better word, since both habitations had nearly upright sides) by means
of an old fore-course. In order to get the canvas up there, however, it was found necessary
to cut out the pieces below, when, by means of the purchase at the
derrick, it was all hoisted to the Summit.

These several arrangements occupied Mark and Bob another fortnight, completing the first quarter
of a year they had passed on the Reef.

By this time they had got accustomed to their situation, and had fallen into regular courses
of duty, though the increasing heats admonished both of the prudence of not exposing themselves too much
beneath the fiery sun at noon-day.

Chapter VIII.

"Now from the full-grown day a beamy shower Gleams on the lake, and
gilds each glossy flower, Gay insects sparkle in the genial blaze,
Various as light, and countless as its rays-- Now, from yon range
of rocks, strong rays rebound, Doubling the day on flowery plains
around."

Savage.

After the tent on the Summit was erected, Mark passed much of his
leisure time there.

Thither he conveyed many of his books, of which he had a very respectable collection, his flute,
and a portion of his writing materials. There he could sit and watch
the growth of the different vegetables he was cultivating.

As for Bob, he fished a good deal, both in the way of supplies and for his amusement. The pigs
and poultry fared well, and everything seemed to thrive but poor
Kitty.

She loved to follow Mark, and cast many a longing look up at the Summit, whenever she saw him
strolling about among his plants.

The vegetables on the Summit, or those first put into the ground,
flourished surprisingly.

Loam had been added repeatedly, and they wanted for nothing that could bring forward vegetation.
The melons soon began to run, as did the cucumbers, squashes, and pumpkins; and by the end
of the next month, there were a dozen large patches on the mount
that were covered by a dense verdure.

Nor was this all; Mark making a discovery about this time, that afforded
him almost as, much happiness as when he first saw his melons in
leaf.

He was seated one day, with the walls of his tent brailed up, in order to allow the wind to
blow through, when something dark on the rock caught his eye. This spot was some little distance
from him, and going to it, he found that large quantities of his grass-seed had actually taken!
Now he might hope to convert that barren-looking, and often glaring rock, into a beautiful grassy
hill, and render that which was sometimes painful to the eyes, a pleasure to look upon. The
young man understood the laws of vegetation well enough to be certain that could the roots of
grasses once insinuate themselves into the almost invisible crevices of the crust that coveted the place,
they would of themselves let in light, air and water enough for their own wants, and thus increase
the very fertility on which they subsisted. He did not fail, however, to aid nature, by scattering
a fresh supply of guano all over the hill.

While Mark was thus employed at home, Bob rowed out to the reef, bringing in his fish in such
quantities that it occurred to Mark to convert them also into manure. A fresh half-acre was accordingly
broken up, within the crater, the cool of the mornings and of the
evenings being taken for the toil; and, as soon as a bed was picked
over, quantities of fish were buried in it, and left there to decay.

Nor did Betts neglect the sea-weed the while.

On several occasions he floated large bodies of it in, from the outer reefs, which were all safely
landed and wheeled into the crater, where a long pile of it was formed, mingled with loam
from Loam Island, and guano. This work, however, gradually ceased, as the season advanced,
and summer came in earnest.

That season, however, did not prove by any means as formidable as
Mark had anticipated, the sea-breezes keeping the place cool and
refreshed.

Our mariners now missed the rain, which was by no means as frequent
a it had been, though it fell in larger quantities when it did come.

The stock had to be watered for several weeks, the power of the sun causing all the water that
lodged it the cavities of the rocks to evaporate almost immediately.

During the time it was too warm to venture out in the dingui, except for half an hour of a morning,
or for as long a period of an evening, Mark turned his attention
to the ship again.

Seizing suitable moments, each sail was loosened, thoroughly dried,
unbent, and got below.

An awning was got out, and spread, and the decks were wet down, morning
and evening, both for the purposes of cleanliness, and to keep them
from cheeking.

The hold was now entered, and overhauled, for the first time since
the accident.

A great many useful things were found in it, and among other articles
two barrels of good sharp vinegar, which Friend Abraham White had
caused to be put on board to be used with anything that could be pickled,
as an anti-scorbutic.

The onions and cucumbers both promising so well, Mark rejoiced at
this discovery, determining at once to use some of the vinegar on
a part of his expected crop of those two vegetables.

One day as Bob was rummaging about in the hold, and Mark was looking on, that being the coolest
place on the whole reef, the former got hold of a piece of wood, and began to tug at it to draw
it out from among a pile that lay in a dark corner.

After several efforts, the stick came, when Mark, struck with a glimpse
he got of its form, bade Bob bring it under the light of the hatchway.

The instant he got a good look at it, Woolston knew that Bob's'foolish, crooked
stick, which was fit to stow nowhere,'as the honest fellow had described
it when it gave him so much trouble, was neither more nor less than
one of the ribs of a boat of larger size than common.

"This is providential, truly!" exclaimed Mark.

"Your crooked stick, Bob, is a part of the frame of the pinnace of which you spoke, and which
we had given up, as a thing not to be found on board!"

"You're right, Mr. Mark, you're right!" answered Bob-- "and I most
have been oncommon stupid not to have thought of it, when it came
so hard.

And if there's one of the boat's bones stowed in that place, there must be more to be found in
the same latitude."

This was true enough.

After working in that dark corner of the hold for several hours, all the materials of the intended
craft were found and collected in the steerage.

Neither Mark nor Betts was a boat-builder, or a shipwright; but each
had a certain amount of knowledge on the subject, and each well knew
where every piece was intended to be put.

What a revolution this discovery made in the feelings of our young husband! He had never totally
despaired of seeing Bridget again, for that would scarce have comported
with his youth and sanguine temperament; but the hope had, of late,
become so very dim, as to survive only as that feeling will endure
in the bosoms of the youthful and inexperienced Mark had lived a long
time for his years; had seen more and performed far more than usually
falls to persons of his age, and he was, by character, prudent and
practical; but it would have been impossible for one who had lived
as long and as well as himself, to give up every expectation of being
restored to his bride, even in circumstances more discouraging than
those in which he was actually placed.

Still, he had been slowly accustoming himself to the idea of a protracted
separation, and had never lost sight of the expediency of making his
preparations for passing his entire life in the solitary place where
he and Betts had been cast by a mysterious and unexpected dispensation
of a Divine Providence.

When Bob, from time to-time, insisted on his account of the materials
for the pinnace being in the ship, Mark had listened incredulously,
unconscious himself how much his mind had been occupied by Bridget
when this part of the cargo had been taken in, and unwilling to believe
such an acquisition could have been made without his knowledge.

Now that he saw it, however, a tumultuous rushing of all the blood
in his body towards his heart, almost overpowered him, and the future
entirely changed its aspects.

He did not doubt an instant, of the ability of Bob and himself to
put these blessed materials together, or of their success in navigating
the mild sea around them, for any necessary distance, in a craft of
the size this must turn out to be.

A bright vista, with Bridget's brighter countenance at its termination,
glowed before his imagination, and a great deal of wholesome philosophy
and Christian submission were unsettled, as it might be, in the twinkling
of an eye, by this all-important discovery.

Mark had never abandoned the thought of constructing a little vessel
with materials torn from the ship; but that would nave been a most
laborious, as well as a doubtful experiment, while here was the problem
solved, with a certainty and precision almost equal to one in mathematics!

The agitation and revulsion of feeling produced in Mark by the discovery
of the materials of the pinnace, were so great as to prevent him from
maturing any plan for several days.

During that time he could perceive in himself an alteration that amounted almost to an entire change
of character. The vines on the Summit were now in full leaf, and they
covered broad patches of the rock with their luxuriant vegetation,
while the grass could actually be seen from the ship, converting the
drab-coloured concretions of the mount into slopes and acclivities
of verdure.

But, all this delighted him no longer. Home and Bridget met him
even in the fanciful and now thriving beds within the crater, where
everything appeared to push forward with a luxuriance and promise
of return, far exceeding what had once been his fondest expectations.

He could see nothing, anticipate nothing, talk of nothing, think of nothing,
but these new-found means of quitting the Reef, and of returning to
the abodes of men, and to the arms of his young wife. Betts took things
more philosophically.

He had made up his mind to'Robinson Crusoe it'a few years, and, though
he had often expressed a wish that the dingui was of twice its actual
size, he would have been quite as well content with this new boat
could it be cut down to one-fourth of its real dimensions.

He submitted to Mark's superior information, however; and when the
latter told him that he could wait no longer for the return of cooler
weather, or for the heat of the sun to become less intense before he
began to set up the frame of his craft, as had been the first intention,
Bob acquiesced in the change of plan, without remonstrance, bent on
taking things as they came, in humility and cheerfulness.

Nevertheless, it was far easier bravely to determine in this matter, than to execute. The heat was
now so intense for the greater part of the day, that it would have
far exceeded the power of our two mariners to support it, on a naked
rock, and without shade of any sort.

The frame of the pinnace must be set up somewhere near the water,
regular ways being necessary to launch her; and nowhere, on the shore,
was the smallest shade to be found, without recourse to artificial
means of procuring it.

As Mark's impatience would no longer brook delay, this artificial
shade, therefore, was the first thing to be attended to. The leeward
end of the reef was chosen for the new ship-yard. Although this choice
imposed a good deal of additional labour on the two workmen, by compelling
them to transport all the materials rather more than a mile, reflection
and examination induced Mark to select the spot he did.

The formation of the rock was more favourable there, he fancied, than in any other place he could
find; offering greater facilities for launching. This was one motive;
but the principal inducement was connected with an apprehension of floods.
By the wall-like appearance of the exterior base of the mount, by the
smoothness of the surface of the Reef in general, which, while it had
many inequalities, wore the appearance of being semi-polished by
the washing of water over it; and by the certain signs that were,
to be found on most of the lower half of the plain of the crater itself,
Mark thought it apparent that the entire reef the crater excepted,
had been often covered with the water of the ocean, and that at no
very distant day.

The winter months were usually the tempestuous months in that latitude,
though hurricanes might at any time occur.

Now, the winter was yet an untried experiment with our two'reefers,'as Bob sometimes laughingly
called himself and Mark, and hurricanes were things that often raised
the seas in their neighbourhood several feet in an hour or two.

Should the water be actually driven upon the Reef, so as to admit
of a current to wash across it, or the waves to roll along its surface,
the pinnace would be in the greatest danger of being carried off before
it could be even launched.

All these things Mark bore in mind, and he chose the spot he did, with an eye to these floods,
altogether.

It might be six or eight months before they could be ready to get the pinnace into the water, and
it now wanted but six to the stormy season. At the western, or leeward, extremity of the island,
the little craft would be under the lee of the crater, which would form a sort of breakwater,
and might be the means of preventing it from being washed away.
Then the rock, just at that spot, was three or four feet higher than
at any other point, sufficiently near the sea to admit of launching
with ease; and the two advantages united, induced our young'reefer'to
incur the labour of transporting the materials the distance named,
in reference to foregoing them.

The raft, however, was put in requisition, and the entire frame, with a few of the planks necessary
for a commencement, was carried round at one load. Previously to
laying the keel of the pinnace, Mark named it the Neshamony, after
a creek that was nearly opposite to the Rancocus, another inlet of the
Delaware, that had given its name to the ship from the circumstance
that Friend Abraham White had been born on its low banks. The means of averting
the pains and penalties of working in the sun, were also attended
to, as indeed the great preliminary measure in this new enterprise.
To this end, the raft was again put in requisition; an old main-course
was got out of the sail-room, and lowered upon the raft; spare spars
were cut to the necessary length, and thrown into the water, to be
towed down in company; ropes,& c., were provided, and Bob sailed anew
on this voyage.

It was a work of a good deal of labour to get the raft to windward, towing having been resorted
to as the easiest process, but a trip to leeward was soon made.

In twenty minutes after this cargo had left the ship, it reached its point of destination. The only
time when our men could work at even their awning, were two hours early in the morning, and as many after
the sun had got very low, or had absolutely set. Eight holes had to be drilled into the lava,
to a depth of two feet each. Gunpowder, in very small quantities, was used, or these holes
could not have been made in a twelvemonth. But by drilling with a crowbar a foot or two into the
rock, and charging the cavity with a very small portion of powder, the lava was cracked, when the
stones rather easily were raised by means of the picks and crows.
Some idea may be formed of the amount of labour that was expended on
this, the first step in the new task, by the circumstance that a
month was passed in setting those eight awning-posts alone.

When up, however, they perfectly answered the purpose, everything having been done in a thorough,
seaman-like manner. At the top of each post, itself a portion of solid spar, a watch-tackle
was lashed, by means of which the sail was bowsed up to its place. To prevent the bagging unavoidable,
in an awning of that size, several uprights were set in the centre, on end, answering their purpose sufficiently
without boring into the rocks. Bob was in raptures with the new'ship-yard.'It was as large as the
mainsail of a ship of four hundred tons, was complete as to shade,
with the advantage of letting the breeze circulate, and had a reasonable
chance of escaping from the calamities of a flood.

Mark, too, was satisfied with the result, and the very next day after this task was completed,
our shipwrights set to work to lay their keel.

That day was memorable on another account. Bob had gone to the Summit in quest of a tool left there,
in fitting up the boat of Mark, and while on the mount, he ascertained the important fact that the
melons were beginning to ripen. He brought down three or four of these delicious fruits, and Mark had
the gratification of tasting some of the bounties of Providence, which had been bestowed, as a reward
of his own industry and forethought. It was necessary to eat of these melons in moderation,
however; but it was a great relief to get them at all, after subsisting for so long a time on salted
meats, principally, with no other vegetables but such as were dry, and had been long in the ship. It
was not the melons alone, however, that were getting to be ripe; for, on examining himself,
among the vines which now covered fully an acre of the Summit, Mark found squashes, cucumbers,
onions, sweet-potatoes, tomatoes, string-beans, and two or three
other vegetables, all equally fit to be used.

From
that time, some of these plants were put into the pot daily, and certain slight apprehensions
which Woolston had begun again to entertain on the subject of scurvy,
were soon dissipated.

As for the garden within the crater, which was much the most extensive and artistical, it was somewhat
behind that on the Summit, having been later tilled; but everything, there, looked equally promising,
and Mark saw that one acre, well worked, would produce more than he and Betts could consume
in a twelvemonth. It was an important day on the Reef when the keel
of the pinnace was laid.

On examining his materials, Mark ascertained that the boat-builders had marked and numbered
each portion of the frame, each plank, and everything else that belonged to the pinnace. Holes were
bored, and everything had been done in the boat-yard that could be useful to those who, it was
expected, were to put the work together in a distant part of the world. This greatly facilitated our new
boat-builders'labours in the way of skill, besides having done so much of the actual toil to their hands.
As soon as the keel was laid, Mark set up the frame, which came together with very little trouble.
The wailes were then got out, and were fitted, each piece being bolted
in its allotted place.

As the work had already been put together, there was little or no dubbing necessary. Aware that
the parts had once been accurately fitted to each other, Mark was careful
not to disturb their arrangement by an unnecessary use of the adze,
or broad-axe, experimenting and altering the positions of the timbers
and planks; but, whenever he met with any obstacle, in preference
to cutting and changing the materials themselves, he persevered until
the parts came together as had been contemplated.

By observing this caution, the whole frame was set up, the wailes were fitted and bolted, and
the garboard-streak got on and secured, without taking off a particle of the wood, though
a week was necessary to effect these desired objects. Our mariners now measured their new frame.
The keel was just four-and-twenty feet long, the distance between the knight-heads and the taffrail
being six feet greater; the beam, from outside to outside, was nine feet, and the hold might
be computed at five feet in depth. This gave something like a measurement of eleven tons; the pinnace
having been intended for a craft a trifle smaller than this. As a vessel of eleven tons might
make very good weather in a sea-way, if properly handled, the result
gave great satisfaction, Mark cheering Bob with accounts of crafts,
of much smaller dimensions, that had navigated the more stormy seas,
with entire safety, on various occasions.

The planking of the Neshamony was no great matter, being completed the week it was commenced.
The caulking, however, gave more trouble, though Bob had done a good deal of that sort of work
in his day. It took a fortnight for the honest fellow to do the caulking to his own mind, and
before it was finished another great discovery was made by rummaging in the ship's hold, in quest
of some of the fastenings which had not at first been found. A quantity of old sheet-copper, that
had run its time on a vessel's bottom, was brought to light, marked
"copper for the pinnace."

Friend Abraham White had bethought him of the worms of the low latitudes, and had sent out enough
of the refuse copper of a vessel that had been broken up to cover the bottom of this little
craft fairly up to her bends. To work, then, Mark and Bob went to put on the sheathing-paper
and copper that had thus bountifully been provided for them, as soon
as the seams were well payed.

This done, and it was no great job, the paint-brush was set to work, and the hull was completed! In all,
Mark and Betts were eight weeks, hard at work, putting their pinnace together. When she was painted,
the summer was more than half gone. The laying of the deck had given more trouble than any other
portion of the work on the boat, and this because it was not a plain, full deck, or one that covered
the whole of the vessel, but left small stern-sheets aft, which was absolutely necessary to the
comfort and safety of those she was to carry. The whole was got together, however, leaving Mark and
Bob to rejoice in their success thus far, and to puzzle their heads about the means of getting
their craft into the water, now she was built. In a word, it was far easier to put together
a vessel often tons, that had been thus ready fitted to their hands, than it was to launch her.
As each of our mariners had necessarily seen many vessels in their cradles, each had some idea of what
it was now necessary to do. Mark had laid the keel as near the water
as he could get it, and by this precaution had saved himself a good
deal of labour. It was very easy to find materials for the ways, many heavy
planks still remaining; but the difficulty was to lay them so that
they would not spread.

Here the awning-posts were found of good service, plank being set on their edges against
them, which, in their turn, were made to sustain the props of the
ways.

All about him was ridgy roll of wind-smoothed, rain-washed rock. Not a tuft of grass or a bunch
of sage colored the dull rust-yellow. He saw where, to the right, this uneven flow of stone
ended in a blunt wall. Leftward, from the hollow that lay at his feet, mounted a gradual slow-swelling
slope to a great height topped by leaning, cracked, and ruined crags. Not for some time did
he grasp the wonder of that acclivity. It was no less than a mountain-side, glistening in the
sun like polished granite, with cedar-trees springing as if by magic out of the denuded surface.
Winds had swept it clear of weathered shale, and rains had washed it free of dust. Far up the
curved slope its beautiful lines broke to meet the vertical rim-wall, to lose its grace in
a different order and color of rock, a stained yellow cliff of cracks and caves and seamed
crags. And straight before Venters was a scene less striking but more significant to his keen
survey. For beyond a mile of the bare, hummocky rock began the valley of sage, and the mouths
of canyons, one of which surely was another gateway into the pass.

He got off his horse, and, giving the bridle to Ring to hold, he commenced a search for the
cleft where the stream ran. He was not successful and concluded the water dropped into an underground
passage. Then he returned to where he had left Wrangle, and led him down off the stone to the
sage. It was a short ride to the opening canyons. There was no reason for a choice of which
one to enter. The one he rode into was a clear, sharp shaft in yellow stone a thousand feet
deep, with wonderful wind-worn caves low down and high above buttressed and turreted ramparts.
Farther on Venters came into a region where deep indentations marked the line of canyon walls.
These were huge, cove-like blind pockets extending back to a sharp corner with a dense growth
of underbrush and trees.

Venters penetrated into one of these offshoots, and, as he had hoped, he found abundant grass.
He had to bend the oak saplings to get his horse through. Deciding to make this a hiding-place
if he could find water, he worked back to the limit of the shelving walls. In a little cluster
of silver spruces he found a spring. This inclosed nook seemed an ideal place to leave his
horse and to camp at night, and from which to make stealthy trips on foot. The thick grass
hid his trail; the dense growth of oaks in the opening would serve as a barrier to keep Wrangle
in, if, indeed, the luxuriant browse would not suffice for that. So Venters, leaving Whitie
with the horse, called Ring to his side, and, rifle in hand, worked his way out to the open.
A careful photographing in mind of the formation of the bold outlines of rimrock assured him
he would be able to return to his retreat even in the dark.

Bunches of scattered sage covered the center of the canyon, and among these Venters threaded
his way with the step of an Indian. At intervals he put his hand on the dog and stopped to
listen. There was a drowsy hum of insects, but no other sound disturbed the warm midday stillness.
Venters saw ahead a turn, more abrupt than any yet. Warily he rounded this corner, once again
to halt bewildered.

The canyon opened fan-shaped into a great oval of green and gray growths. It was the hub of
an oblong wheel, and from it, at regular distances, like spokes, ran the outgoing canyons.
Here a dull red color predominated over the fading yellow. The corners of wall bluntly rose,
scarred and scrawled, to taper into towers and serrated peaks and pinnacled domes.

Venters pushed on more heedfully than ever. Toward the center of this circle the sage-brush
grew smaller and farther apart He was about to sheer off to the right, where thickets and jumbles
of fallen rock would afford him cover, when he ran right upon a broad cattle trail. Like a
road it was, more than a trail, and the cattle tracks were fresh. What surprised him more,
they were wet! He pondered over this feature. It had not rained. The only solution to this
puzzle was that the cattle had been driven through water, and water deep enough to wet their legs.

Suddenly Ring growled low. Venters rose cautiously and looked over the sage. A band of straggling
horsemen were riding across the oval. He sank down, startled and trembling. "Rustlers!" he
muttered. Hurriedly he glanced about for a place to hide. Near at hand there was nothing but
sage-brush. He dared not risk crossing the open patches to reach the rocks. Again he peeped
over the sage. The rustlers--four--five--seven--eight in all, were approaching, but not directly
in line with him. That was relief for a cold deadness which seemed to be creeping inward along
his veins. He crouched down with bated breath and held the bristling dog.

He heard the click of iron-shod hoofs on stone, the coarse laughter of men, and then voices
gradually dying away. Long moments passed. Then he rose. The rustlers were riding into a canyon.
Their horses were tired, and they had several pack animals; evidently they had traveled far.
Venters doubted that they were the rustlers who had driven the red herd. Olding's band had
split. Venters watched these horsemen disappear under a bold canyon wall.

The rustlers had come from the northwest side of the oval. Venters kept a steady gaze in that
direction, hoping, if there were more, to see from what canyon they rode. A quarter of an hour
went by. Reward for his vigilance came when he descried three more mounted men, far over to
the north. But out of what canyon they had ridden it was too late to tell. He watched the three
ride across the oval and round the jutting red corner where the others had gone.

"Up that canyon!" exclaimed Venters. "Oldring's den! I've found it!"

A knotty point for Venters was the fact that the cattle tracks all pointed west. The broad
trail came from the direction of the canyon into which the rustlers had ridden, and undoubtedly
the cattle had been driven out of it across the oval. There were no tracks pointing the other
way. It had been in his mind that Oldring had driven the red herd toward the rendezvous, and
not from it. Where did that broad trail come down into the pass, and where did it lead? Venters
knew he wasted time in pondering the question, but it held a fascination not easily dispelled.
For many years Oldring's mysterious entrance and exit to Deception Pass had been all-absorbing
topics to sage-riders.

All at once the dog put an end to Venters's pondering. Ring sniffed the air, turned slowly
in his tracks with a whine, and then growled. Venters wheeled. Two horsemen were within a hundred
yards, coming straight at him. One, lagging behind the other, was Oldring's Masked Rider.

Venters cunningly sank, slowly trying to merge into sage-brush. But, guarded as his action
was, the first horse detected it. He stopped short, snorted, and shot up his ears. The rustler
bent forward, as if keenly peering ahead. Then, with a swift sweep, he jerked a gun from its
sheath and fired.

The bullet zipped through the sage-brush. Flying bits of wood struck Venters, and the hot,
stinging pain seemed to lift him in one leap. Like a flash the blue barrel of his rifle gleamed
level and he shot once--twice.

The foremost rustler dropped his weapon and toppled from his saddle, to fall with his foot
catching in a stirrup. The horse snorted wildly and plunged away, dragging the rustler through
the sage.

The Masked Rider huddled over his pommel slowly swaying to one side, and then, with a faint,
strange cry, slipped out of the saddle.

CHAPTER V. THE MASKED RIDER

Venters looked quickly from the fallen rustlers to the canyon where the others had disappeared.
He calculated on the time needed for running horses to return to the open, if their riders
heard shots. He waited breathlessly. But the estimated time dragged by and no riders appeared.
Venters began presently to believe that the rifle reports had not penetrated into the recesses
of the canyon, and felt safe for the immediate present.

He hurried to the spot where the first rustler had been dragged by his horse. The man lay in
deep grass, dead, jaw fallen, eyes protruding--a sight that sickened Venters. The first man
at whom he had ever aimed a weapon he had shot through the heart. With the clammy sweat oozing
from every pore Venters dragged the rustler in among some boulders and covered him with slabs
of rock. Then he smoothed out the crushed trail in grass and sage. The rustler's horse had
stopped a quarter of a mile off and was grazing.

When Venters rapidly strode toward the Masked Rider not even the cold nausea that gripped him
could wholly banish curiosity. For he had shot Oldring's infamous lieutenant, whose face had
never been seen. Venters experienced a grim pride in the feat. What would Tull say to this
achievement of the outcast who rode too often to Deception Pass?

Venters's curious eagerness and expectation had not prepared him for the shock he received
when he stood over a slight, dark figure. The rustler wore the black mask that had given him
his name, but he had no weapons. Venters glanced at the drooping horse, there were no gun-sheaths
on the saddle.

"A rustler who didn't pack guns!" muttered Venters. "He wears no belt. He couldn't pack guns
in that rig.... Strange!"

A low, gasping intake of breath and a sudden twitching of body told Venters the rider still lived.

"He's alive!... I've got to stand here and watch him die. And I shot an unarmed man."

Shrinkingly Venters removed the rider's wide sombrero and the black cloth mask. This action
disclosed bright chestnut hair, inclined to curl, and a white, youthful face. Along the lower
line of cheek and jaw was a clear demarcation, where the brown of tanned skin met the white
that had been hidden from the sun.

"Oh, he's only a boy!... What! Can he be Oldring's Masked Rider?"

The boy showed signs of returning consciousness. He stirred; his lips moved; a small brown
hand clenched in his blouse.

Venters knelt with a gathering horror of his deed. His bullet had entered the rider's right
breast, high up to the shoulder. With hands that shook, Venters untied a black scarf and ripped
open the blood-wet blouse.

First he saw a gaping hole, dark red against a whiteness of skin, from which welled a slender
red stream. Then the graceful, beautiful swell of a woman's breast!

"A woman!" he cried. "A girl!... I've killed a girl!"

She suddenly opened eyes that transfixed Venters. They were fathomless blue. Consciousness
of death was there, a blended terror and pain, but no consciousness of sight. She did not see
Venters. She stared into the unknown.

Then came a spasm of vitality. She writhed in a torture of reviving strength, and in her convulsions
she almost tore from Ventner's grasp. Slowly she relaxed and sank partly back. The ungloved
hand sought the wound, and pressed so hard that her wrist half buried itself in her bosom.
Blood trickled between her spread fingers. And she looked at Venters with eyes that saw him.

He cursed himself and the unerring aim of which he had been so proud. He had seen that look
in the eyes of a crippled antelope which he was about to finish with his knife. But in her
it had infinitely more--a revelation of mortal spirit. The instinctive bringing to life was
there, and the divining helplessness and the terrible accusation of the stricken.

"Forgive me! I didn't know!" burst out Venters.

"You shot me--you've killed me!" she whispered, in panting gasps. Upon her lips appeared a
fluttering, bloody froth. By that Venters knew the air in her lungs was mixing with blood.
"Oh, I knew--it would--come--some day!... Oh, the burn!... Hold me--I'm sinking--it's all dark....
Ah, God!... Mercy--"

Her rigidity loosened in one long quiver and she lay back limp, still, white as snow, with
closed eyes.

Venters thought then that she died. But the faint pulsation of her breast assured him that
life yet lingered. Death seemed only a matter of moments, for the bullet had gone clear through
her. Nevertheless, he tore sageleaves from a bush, and, pressing them tightly over her wounds,
he bound the black scarf round her shoulder, tying it securely under her arm. Then he closed
the blouse, hiding from his sight that blood-stained, accusing breast.

"What--now?" he questioned, with flying mind. "I must get out of here. She's dying--but I can't
leave her."

He rapidly surveyed the sage to the north and made out no animate object. Then he picked up
the girl's sombrero and the mask. This time the mask gave him as great a shock as when he first
removed it from her face. For in the woman he had forgotten the rustler, and this black strip
of felt-cloth established the identity of Oldring's Masked Rider. Venters had solved the mystery.
He slipped his rifle under her, and, lifting her carefully upon it, he began to retrace his
steps. The dog trailed in his shadow. And the horse, that had stood drooping by, followed without
a call. Venters chose the deepest tufts of grass and clumps of sage on his return. From time
to time he glanced over his shoulder. He did not rest. His concern was to avoid jarring the
girl and to hide his trail. Gaining the narrow canyon, he turned and held close to the wall
till he reached his hiding-place. When he entered the dense thicket of oaks he was hard put
to it to force a way through. But he held his burden almost upright, and by slipping side wise
and bending the saplings he got in. Through sage and grass he hurried to the grove of silver
spruces.

He laid the girl down, almost fearing to look at her. Though marble pale and cold, she was
living. Venters then appreciated the tax that long carry had been to his strength. He sat down
to rest. Whitie sniffed at the pale girl and whined and crept to Venters's feet. Ring lapped
the water in the runway of the spring.

Presently Venters went out to the opening, caught the horse and, leading him through the thicket,
unsaddled him and tied him with a long halter. Wrangle left his browsing long enough to whinny
and toss his head. Venters felt that he could not rest easily till he had secured the other
rustler's horse; so, taking his rifle and calling for Ring, he set out. Swiftly yet watchfully
he made his way through the canyon to the oval and out to the cattle trail. What few tracks
might have betrayed him he obliterated, so only an expert tracker could have trailed him. Then,
with many a wary backward glance across the sage, he started to round up the rustler's horse.
This was unexpectedly easy. He led the horse to lower ground, out of sight from the opposite
side of the oval along the shadowy western wall, and so on into his canyon and secluded camp.

The girl's eyes were open; a feverish spot burned in her cheeks she moaned something unintelligible
to Venters, but he took the movement of her lips to mean that she wanted water. Lifting her
head, he tipped the canteen to her lips. After that she again lapsed into unconsciousness or
a weakness which was its counterpart. Venters noted, however, that the burning flush had faded
into the former pallor.

The sun set behind the high canyon rim, and a cool shade darkened the walls. Venters fed the
dogs and put a halter on the dead rustlers horse. He allowed Wrangle to browse free. This done,
he cut spruce boughs and made a lean-to for the girl. Then, gently lifting her upon a blanket,
he folded the sides over her. The other blanket he wrapped about his shoulders and found a
comfortable seat against a spruce-tree that upheld the little shack. Ring and Whitie lay near
at hand, one asleep, the other watchful.

Venters dreaded the night's vigil. At night his mind was active, and this time he had to watch
and think and feel beside a dying girl whom he had all but murdered. A thousand excuses he
invented for himself, yet not one made any difference in his act or his self-reproach.

It seemed to him that when night fell black he could see her white face so much more plainly.

"She'll go, presently," he said, "and be out of agony--thank God!"

Every little while certainty of her death came to him with a shock; and then he would bend
over and lay his ear on her breast. Her heart still beat.

The early night blackness cleared to the cold starlight. The horses were not moving, and no
sound disturbed the deathly silence of the canyon.

"I'll bury her here," thought Venters, "and let her grave be as much a mystery as her life was."

For the girl's few words, the look of her eyes, the prayer, had strangely touched Venters.

"She was only a girl," he soliloquized. "What was she to Oldring? Rustlers don't have wives
nor sisters nor daughters. She was bad--that's all. But somehow... well, she may not have willingly
become the companion of rustlers. That prayer of hers to God for mercy!... Life is strange
and cruel. I wonder if other members of Oldring's gang are women? Likely enough. But what was
his game? Oldring's Mask Rider! A name to make villagers hide and lock their doors. A name
credited with a dozen murders, a hundred forays, and a thousand stealings of cattle. What part
did the girl have in this? It may have served Oldring to create mystery."

Hours passed. The white stars moved across the narrow strip of dark-blue sky above. The silence
awoke to the low hum of insects. Venters watched the immovable white face, and as he watched,
hour by hour waiting for death, the infamy of her passed from his mind. He thought only of
the sadness, the truth of the moment. Whoever she was--whatever she had done--she was young
and she was dying.

The after-part of the night wore on interminably. The starlight failed and the gloom blackened
to the darkest hour. "She'll die at the gray of dawn," muttered Venters, remembering some old
woman's fancy. The blackness paled to gray, and the gray lightened and day peeped over the
eastern rim. Venters listened at the breast of the girl. She still lived. Did he only imagine
that her heart beat stronger, ever so slightly, but stronger? He pressed his ear closer to
her breast. And he rose with his own pulse quickening.

"If she doesn't die soon--she's got a chance--the barest chance to live," he said.

He wondered if the internal bleeding had ceased. There was no more film of blood upon her lips.
But no corpse could have been whiter. Opening her blouse, he untied the scarf, and carefully
picked away the sage leaves from the wound in her shoulder. It had closed. Lifting her lightly,
he ascertained that the same was true of the hole where the bullet had come out. He reflected
on the fact that clean wounds closed quickly in the healing upland air. He recalled instances
of riders who had been cut and shot apparently to fatal issues; yet the blood had clotted,
the wounds closed, and they had recovered. He had no way to tell if internal hemorrhage still
went on, but he believed that it had stopped. Otherwise she would surely not have lived so
long. He marked the entrance of the bullet, and concluded that it had just touched the upper
lobe of her lung. Perhaps the wound in the lung had also closed. As he began to wash the blood
stains from her breast and carefully rebandage the wound, he was vaguely conscious of a strange,
grave happiness in the thought that she might live.

Broad daylight and a hint of sunshine high on the cliff-rim to the west brought him to consideration
of what he had better do. And while busy with his few camp tasks he revolved the thing in his
mind. It would not be wise for him to remain long in his present hiding-place. And if he intended
to follow the cattle trail and try to find the rustlers he had better make a move at once.
For he knew that rustlers, being riders, would not make much of a day's or night's absence
from camp for one or two of their number; but when the missing ones failed to show up in reasonable
time there would be a search. And Venters was afraid of that.

"A good tracker could trail me," he muttered. "And I'd be cornered here. Let's see. Rustlers
are a lazy set when they're not on the ride. I'll risk it. Then I'll change my hiding-place."

He carefully cleaned and reloaded his guns. When he rose to go he bent a long glance down upon
the unconscious girl. Then ordering Whitie and Ring to keep guard, he left the camp.

The safest cover lay close under the wall of the canyon, and here through the dense thickets
Venters made his slow, listening advance toward the oval. Upon gaining the wide opening he
decided to cross it and follow the left wall till he came to the cattle trail. He scanned the
oval as keenly as if hunting for antelope. Then, stooping, he stole from one cover to another,
taking advantage of rocks and bunches of sage, until he had reached the thickets under the
opposite wall. Once there, he exercised extreme caution in his surveys of the ground ahead,
but increased his speed when moving. Dodging from bush to bush, he passed the mouths of two
canyons, and in the entrance of a third canyon he crossed a wash of swift clear water, to come
abruptly upon the cattle trail.

It followed the low bank of the wash, and, keeping it in sight, Venters hugged the line of
sage and thicket. Like the curves of a serpent the canyon wound for a mile or more and then
opened into a valley. Patches of red showed clear against the purple of sage, and farther out
on the level dotted strings of red led away to the wall of rock.

"Ha, the red herd!" exclaimed Venters.

Then dots of white and black told him there were cattle of other colors in this inclosed valley.
Oldring, the rustler, was also a rancher. Venters's calculating eye took count of stock that
outnumbered the red herd.

"What a range!" went on Venters. "Water and grass enough for fifty thousand head, and no riders
needed!"

After his first burst of surprise and rapid calculation Venters lost no time there, but slunk
again into the sage on his back trail. With the discovery of Oldring's hidden cattle-range
had come enlightenment on several problems. Here the rustler kept his stock, here was Jane
Withersteen's red herd; here were the few cattle that had disappeared from the Cottonwoods
slopes during the last two years. Until Oldring had driven the red herd his thefts of cattle
for that time had not been more than enough to supply meat for his men. Of late no drives had
been reported from Sterling or the villages north. And Venters knew that the riders had wondered
at Oldring's inactivity in that particular field. He and his band had been active enough in
their visits to Glaze and Cottonwoods; they always had gold; but of late the amount gambled
away and drunk and thrown away in the villages had given rise to much conjecture. Oldring's
more frequent visits had resulted in new saloons, and where there had formerly been one raid
or shooting fray in the little hamlets there were now many. Perhaps Oldring had another range
farther on up the pass, and from there drove the cattle to distant Utah towns where he was
little known But Venters came finally to doubt this. And, from what he had learned in the last
few days, a belief began to form in Venters's mind that Oldring's intimidations of the villages
and the mystery of the Masked Rider, with his alleged evil deeds, and the fierce resistance
offered any trailing riders, and the rustling of cattle--these things were only the craft of
the rustler-chief to conceal his real life and purpose and work in Deception Pass.

And like a scouting Indian Venters crawled through the sage of the oval valley, crossed trail
after trail on the north side, and at last entered the canyon out of which headed the cattle
trail, and into which he had watched the rustlers disappear.

If he had used caution before, now he strained every nerve to force himself to creeping stealth
and to sensitiveness of ear. He crawled along so hidden that he could not use his eyes except
to aid himself in the toilsome progress through the brakes and ruins of cliff-wall. Yet from
time to time, as he rested, he saw the massive red walls growing higher and wilder, more looming
and broken. He made note of the fact that he was turning and climbing. The sage and thickets
of oak and brakes of alder gave place to pinyon pine growing out of rocky soil. Suddenly a
low, dull murmur assailed his ears. At first he thought it was thunder, then the slipping of
a weathered slope of rock. But it was incessant, and as he progressed it filled out deeper
and from a murmur changed into a soft roar.

"Falling water," he said. "There's volume to that. I wonder if it's the stream I lost."

The roar bothered him, for he could hear nothing else. Likewise, however, no rustlers could
hear him. Emboldened by this and sure that nothing but a bird could see him, he arose from
his hands and knees to hurry on. An opening in the pinyons warned him that he was nearing the
height of slope.

He gained it, and dropped low with a burst of astonishment. Before him stretched a short canyon
with rounded stone floor bare of grass or sage or tree, and with curved, shelving walls. A
broad rippling stream flowed toward him, and at the back of the canyon waterfall burst from
a wide rent in the cliff, and, bounding down in two green steps, spread into a long white sheet.

If Venters had not been indubitably certain that he had entered the right canyon his astonishment
would not have been so great. There had been no breaks in the walls, no side canyons entering
this one where the rustlers' tracks and the cattle trail had guided him, and, therefore, he
could not be wrong. But here the canyon ended, and presumably the trails also.

"That cattle trail headed out of here," Venters kept saying to himself. "It headed out. Now
what I want to know is how on earth did cattle ever get in here?"

If he could be sure of anything it was of the careful scrutiny he had given that cattle track,
every hoofmark of which headed straight west. He was now looking east at an immense round boxed
corner of canyon down which tumbled a thin, white veil of water, scarcely twenty yards wide.
Somehow, somewhere, his calculations had gone wrong. For the first time in years he found himself
doubting his rider's skill in finding tracks, and his memory of what he had actually seen.
In his anxiety to keep under cover he must have lost himself in this offshoot of Deception
Pass, and thereby in some unaccountable manner, missed the canyon with the trails. There was
nothing else for him to think. Rustlers could not fly, nor cattle jump down thousand-foot precipices.
He was only proving what the sage-riders had long said of this labyrinthine system of deceitful
canyons and valleys--trails led down into Deception Pass, but no rider had ever followed them.

On a sudden he heard above the soft roar of the waterfall an unusual sound that he could not
define. He dropped flat behind a stone and listened. From the direction he had come swelled
something that resembled a strange muffled pounding and splashing and ringing. Despite his
nerve the chill sweat began to dampen his forehead. What might not be possible in this stonewalled
maze of mystery? The unnatural sound passed beyond him as he lay gripping his rifle and fighting
for coolness. Then from the open came the sound, now distinct and different. Venters recognized
a hobble-bell of a horse, and the cracking of iron on submerged stones, and the hollow splash
of hoofs in water.

Relief surged over him. His mind caught again at realities, and curiosity prompted him to peep
from behind the rock.

In the middle of the stream waded a long string of packed burros driven by three superbly mounted
men. Had Venters met these dark-clothed, dark-visaged, heavily armed men anywhere in Utah,
let alone in this robbers' retreat, he would have recognized them as rustlers. The discerning
eye of a rider saw the signs of a long, arduous trip. These men were packing in supplies from
one of the northern villages. They were tired, and their horses were almost played out, and
the burros plodded on, after the manner of their kind when exhausted, faithful and patient,
but as if every weary, splashing, slipping step would be their last.

All this Venters noted in one glance. After that he watched with a thrilling eagerness. Straight
at the waterfall the rustlers drove the burros, and straight through the middle, where the
water spread into a fleecy, thin film like dissolving smoke. Following closely, the rustlers
rode into this white mist, showing in bold black relief for an instant, and then they vanished.

Venters drew a full breath that rushed out in brief and sudden utterance.

"Good Heaven! Of all the holes for a rustler!... There's a cavern under that waterfall, and
a passageway leading out to a canyon beyond. Oldring hides in there. He needs only to guard
a trail leading down from the sage-flat above. Little danger of this outlet to the pass being
discovered. I stumbled on it by luck, after I had given up. And now I know the truth of what
puzzled me most--why that cattle trail was wet!"

He wheeled and ran down the slope, and out to the level of the sage-brush. Returning, he had
no time to spare, only now and then, between dashes, a moment when he stopped to cast sharp
eyes ahead. The abundant grass left no trace of his trail. Short work he made of the distance
to the circle of canyons. He doubted that he would ever see it again; he knew he never wanted
to; yet he looked at the red corners and towers with the eyes of a rider picturing landmarks
never to be forgotten.

Here he spent a panting moment in a slow-circling gaze of the sage-oval and the gaps between
the bluffs. Nothing stirred except the gentle wave of the tips of the brush. Then he pressed
on past the mouths of several canyons and over ground new to him, now close under the eastern
wall. This latter part proved to be easy traveling, well screened from possible observation
from the north and west, and he soon covered it and felt safer in the deepening shade of his
own canyon. Then the huge, notched bulge of red rim loomed over him, a mark by which he knew
again the deep cove where his camp lay hidden. As he penetrated the thicket, safe again for
the present, his thoughts reverted to the girl he had left there. The afternoon had far advanced.
How would he find her? He ran into camp, frightening the dogs.

The girl lay with wide-open, dark eyes, and they dilated when he knelt beside her. The flush
of fever shone in her cheeks. He lifted her and held water to her dry lips, and felt an inexplicable
sense of lightness as he saw her swallow in a slow, choking gulp. Gently he laid her back.

"Who--are--you?" she whispered, haltingly.

"I'm the man who shot you," he replied.

"You'll--not--kill me--now?"

"No, no."

"What--will--you--do--with me?"

"When you get better--strong enough--I'll take you back to the canyon where the rustlers ride
through the waterfall."

As with a faint shadow from a flitting wing overhead, the marble whiteness of her face seemed
to change.

"Don't--take--me--back--there!"

CHAPTER VI. THE MILL-WHEEL OF STEERS

Meantime, at the ranch, when Judkins's news had sent Venters on the trail of the rustlers,
Jane Withersteen led the injured man to her house and with skilled fingers dressed the gunshot
wound in his arm.

"Judkins, what do you think happened to my riders?"

"I--I d rather not say," he replied.

"Tell me. Whatever you'll tell me I'll keep to myself. I'm beginning to worry about more than
the loss of a herd of cattle. Venters hinted of--but tell me, Judkins."

"Well, Miss Withersteen, I think as Venters thinks--your riders have been called in."

"Judkins!... By whom?"

"You know who handles the reins of your Mormon riders."

"Do you dare insinuate that my churchmen have ordered in my riders?"

"I ain't insinuatin' nothin', Miss Withersteen," answered Judkins, with spirit. "I know what
I'm talking about. I didn't want to tell you."

"Oh, I can't believe that! I'll not believe it! Would Tull leave my herds at the mercy of rustlers
and wolves just because--because--? No, no! It's unbelievable."

"Yes, thet particular thing's onheard of around Cottonwoods But, beggin' pardon, Miss Withersteen,
there never was any other rich Mormon woman here on the border, let alone one thet's taken
the bit between her teeth."

That was a bold thing for the reserved Judkins to say, but it did not anger her. This rider's
crude hint of her spirit gave her a glimpse of what others might think. Humility and obedience
had been hers always. But had she taken the bit between her teeth? Still she wavered. And then,
with quick spurt of warm blood along her veins, she thought of Black Star when he got the bit
fast between his iron jaws and ran wild in the sage. If she ever started to run! Jane smothered
the glow and burn within her, ashamed of a passion for freedom that opposed her duty.

"Judkins, go to the village," she said, "and when you have learned anything definite about
my riders please come to me at once."

When he had gone Jane resolutely applied her mind to a number of tasks that of late had been
neglected. Her father had trained her in the management of a hundred employees and the working
of gardens and fields; and to keep record of the movements of cattle and riders. And beside
the many duties she had added to this work was one of extreme delicacy, such as required all
her tact and ingenuity. It was an unobtrusive, almost secret aid which she rendered to the
Gentile families of the village. Though Jane Withersteen never admitted so to herself, it amounted
to no less than a system of charity. But for her invention of numberless kinds of employment,
for which there was no actual need, these families of Gentiles, who had failed in a Mormon
community, would have starved.

In aiding these poor people Jane thought she deceived her keen churchmen, but it was a kind
of deceit for which she did not pray to be forgiven. Equally as difficult was the task of deceiving
the Gentiles, for they were as proud as they were poor. It had been a great grief to her to
discover how these people hated her people; and it had been a source of great joy that through
her they had come to soften in hatred. At any time this work called for a clearness of mind
that precluded anxiety and worry; but under the present circumstances it required all her vigor
and obstinate tenacity to pin her attention upon her task.

Sunset came, bringing with the end of her labor a patient calmness and power to wait that had
not been hers earlier in the day. The Woolston family still exists in Pennsylvania, and that,
by the way, is something towards corroborating the truth of our narrative. Its most distinguished
member is recently dead, and his journal has been the authority for most of the truths here
related. He died at a good old age, having seen his three-score years and ten, leaving behind
him, in addition to a very ample estate, not only a good character, which means neither more
nor less than what "the neighbours," amid their ignorance, envy, love of detraction, jealousy
and other similar qualities, might think proper to say of him, but the odour of a well-spent
life, in which he struggled hard to live more in favour with God,
than in favour with man. Dusk shaded
the grove where she walked; the birds ceased singing; the wind sighed through the leaves of
the cottonwoods, and the running water murmured down its stone-bedded channel. The glimmering
of the first star was like the peace and beauty of the night. Her faith welled up in her heart
and said that all would soon be right in her little world. She pictured Venters about his lonely
camp-fire sitting between his faithful dogs. She prayed for his safety, for the success of
his undertaking.

Early the next morning one of Jane's women brought in word that Judkins wished to speak to
her. She hurried out, and in her surprise to see him armed with rifle and revolver, she forgot
her intention to inquire about his wound.

"Judkins! Those guns? You never carried guns."

"It's high time, Miss Withersteen," he replied. "Will you come into the grove? It ain't jest
exactly safe for me to be seen here."

She walked with him into the shade of the cottonwoods.

"What do you mean?"

"Miss Withersteen, I went to my mother's house last night. While there, some one knocked, an'
a man asked for me. I went to the door. He wore a mask. He said I'd better not ride any more
for Jane Withersteen. His voice was hoarse an' strange, disguised I reckon, like his face.
He said no more, an' ran off in the dark."

"Did you know who he was?" asked Jane, in a low voice.

"Yes."

Jane did not ask to know; she did not want to know; she feared to know. All her calmness fled
at a single thought.

"Thet's why I'm packin' guns," went on Judkins. "For I'll never quit ridin' for you, Miss Withersteen,
till you let me go."

"Judkins, do you want to leave me?"

"Do I look thet way? Give me a hoss--a fast hoss, an' send me out on the sage."

"Oh, thank you, Judkins! You're more faithful than my own people. I ought not accept your loyalty--you
might suffer more through it. But what in the world can I do? My head whirls. The wrong to
Venters--the stolen herd--these masks, threats, this coil in the dark! I can't understand!
But I feel something dark and terrible closing in around me."

"Miss Withersteen, it's all simple enough," said Judkins, earnestly. "Now please listen--an'
beggin' your pardon--jest turn thet deaf Mormon ear aside, an' let me talk clear an' plain
in the other. I went around to the saloons an' the stores an' the loafin' places yesterday.
All your riders are in. There's talk of a vigilance band organized to hunt down rustlers. They
call themselves 'The Riders.' Thet's the report--thet's the reason given for your riders leavin'
you. Strange thet only a few riders of other ranchers joined the band! An' Tull's man, Jerry
Card--he's the leader. I seen him en' his hoss. He 'ain't been to Glaze. I'm not easy to fool
on the looks of a hoss thet's traveled the sage. Tull an' Jerry didn't ride to Glaze!... Well,
I met Blake en' Dorn, both good friends of mine, usually, as far as their Mormon lights will
let 'em go. But these fellers couldn't fool me, an' they didn't try very hard. I asked them,
straight out like a man, why they left you like thet. I didn't forget to mention how you nursed
Blake's poor old mother when she was sick, an' how good you was to Dorn's kids. They looked
ashamed, Miss Withersteen. An' they jest froze up--thet dark set look thet makes them strange
an' different to me. But I could tell the difference between thet first natural twinge of conscience
an' the later look of some secret thing. An' the difference I caught was thet they couldn't
help themselves. They hadn't no say in the matter. They looked as if their bein' unfaithful
to you was bein' faithful to a higher duty. An' there's the secret. Why it's as plain as--as
sight of my gun here."

"Plain!... My herds to wander in the sage--to be stolen! Jane Withersteen a poor woman! Her
head to be brought low and her spirit broken!... Why, Judkins, it's plain enough."

"Miss Withersteen, let me get what boys I can gather, an' hold the white herd. It's on the
slope now, not ten miles out--three thousand head, an' all steers. They're wild, an' likely
to stampede at the pop of a jack-rabbit's ears. We'll camp right with them, en' try to hold them."

"Judkins, I'll reward you some day for your service, unless all is taken from me. Get the boys
and tell Jerd to give you pick of my horses, except Black Star and Night. But--do not shed
blood for my cattle nor heedlessly risk your lives."

Jane Withersteen rushed to the silence and seclusion of her room, and there could not longer
hold back the bursting of her wrath. She went stone-blind in the fury of a passion that had
never before showed its power. Lying upon her bed, sightless, voiceless, she was a writhing,
living flame. And she tossed there while her fury burned and burned, and finally burned itself out.

Then, weak and spent, she lay thinking, not of the oppression that would break her, but of
this new revelation of self. Until the last few days there had been little in her life to rouse
passions. Her forefathers had been Vikings, savage chieftains who bore no cross and brooked
no hindrance to their will. Her father had inherited that temper; and at times, like antelope
fleeing before fire on the slope, his people fled from his red rages. Jane Withersteen realized
that the spirit of wrath and war had lain dormant in her. She shrank from black depths hitherto
unsuspected. The one thing in man or woman that she scorned above all scorn, and which she
could not forgive, was hate. Hate headed a flaming pathway straight to hell. All in a flash,
beyond her control there had been in her a birth of fiery hate. And the man who had dragged
her peaceful and loving spirit to this degradation was a minister of God's word, an Elder of
her church, the counselor of her beloved Bishop.

The loss of herds and ranges, even of Amber Spring and the Old Stone House, no longer concerned
Jane Withersteen, she faced the foremost thought of her life, what she now considered the mightiest
problem--the salvation of her soul.

She knelt by her bedside and prayed; she prayed as she had never prayed in all her life--prayed
to be forgiven for her sin to be immune from that dark, hot hate; to love Tull as her minister,
though she could not love him as a man; to do her duty by her church and people and those dependent
upon her bounty; to hold reverence of God and womanhood inviolate.

When Jane Withersteen rose from that storm of wrath and prayer for help she was serene, calm,
sure--a changed woman. She would do her duty as she saw it, live her life as her own truth
guided her. She might never be able to marry a man of her choice, but she certainly never would
become the wife of Tull. Her churchmen might take her cattle and horses, ranges and fields,
her corrals and stables, the house of Withersteen and the water that nourished the village
of Cottonwoods; but they could not force her to marry Tull, they could not change her decision
or break her spirit. Once resigned to further loss, and sure of herself, Jane Withersteen attained
a peace of mind that had not been hers for a year. She forgave Tull, and felt a melancholy
regret over what she knew he considered duty, irrespective of his personal feeling for her.
First of all, Tull, as he was a man, wanted her for himself; and secondly, he hoped to save
her and her riches for his church. She did not believe that Tull had been actuated solely by
his minister's zeal to save her soul. She doubted her interpretation of one of his dark sayings--that
if she were lost to him she might as well be lost to heaven. Jane Withersteen's common sense
took arms against the binding limits of her religion; and she doubted that her Bishop, whom
she had been taught had direct communication with God--would damn her soul for refusing to
marry a Mormon. As for Tull and his churchmen, when they had harassed her, perhaps made her
poor, they would find her unchangeable, and then she would get back most of what she had lost.
So she reasoned, true at last to her faith in all men, and in their ultimate goodness.

The clank of iron hoofs upon the stone courtyard drew her hurriedly from her retirement. There,
beside his horse, stood Lassiter, his dark apparel and the great black gun-sheaths contrasting
singularly with his gentle smile. Jane's active mind took up her interest in him and her half-determined
desire to use what charm she had to foil his evident design in visiting Cottonwoods. If she
could mitigate his hatred of Mormons, or at least keep him from killing more of them, not only
would she be saving her people, but also be leading back this bloodspiller to some semblance
of the human.

"Mornin', ma'am," he said, black sombrero in hand.

"Lassiter I'm not an old woman, or even a madam," she replied, with her bright smile. "If you
can't say Miss Withersteen--call me Jane."

"I reckon Jane would be easier. First names are always handy for me."

"Well, use mine, then. Lassiter, I'm glad to see you. I'm in trouble."

Then she told him of Judkins's return, of the driving of the red herd, of Venters's departure
on Wrangle, and the calling-in of her riders.

"'Pears to me you're some smilin' an' pretty for a woman with so much trouble," he remarked.

"Lassiter! Are you paying me compliments? But, seriously I've made up my mind not to be miserable.
I've lost much, and I'll lose more. Nevertheless, I won't be sour, and I hope I'll never be
unhappy--again."

Lassiter twisted his hat round and round, as was his way, and took his time in replying.

"Women are strange to me. I got to back-trailin' myself from them long ago. But I'd like a
game woman. Might I ask, seein' as how you take this trouble, if you're goin' to fight?"

"Fight! How? Even if I would, I haven't a friend except that boy who doesn't dare stay in the
village."

"I make bold to say, ma'am--Jane--that there's another, if you want him."

"Lassiter!... Thank you. But how can I accept you as a friend? Think! Why, you'd ride down
into the village with those terrible guns and kill my enemies--who are also my churchmen."

"I reckon I might be riled up to jest about that," he replied, dryly.

She held out both hands to him.

"Lassiter! I'll accept your friendship--be proud of it--return it--if I may keep you from killing
another Mormon."

"I'll tell you one thing," he said, bluntly, as the gray lightning formed in his eyes. "You're
too good a woman to be sacrificed as you're goin' to be.... No, I reckon you an' me can't be
friends on such terms."

In her earnestness she stepped closer to him, repelled yet fascinated by the sudden transition
of his moods. That he would fight for her was at once horrible and wonderful.

"You came here to kill a man--the man whom Milly Erne--"

"The man who dragged Milly Erne to hell--put it that way!... Jane Withersteen, yes, that's
why I came here. I'd tell so much to no other livin' soul.... There're things such a woman
as you'd never dream of--so don't mention her again. Not till you tell me the name of the man!"

"Tell you! I? Never!"

"I reckon you will. An' I'll never ask you. I'm a man of strange beliefs an' ways of thinkin',
an' I seem to see into the future an' feel things hard to explain. The trail I've been followin'
for so many years was twisted en' tangled, but it's straightenin' out now. An', Jane Withersteen,
you crossed it long ago to ease poor Milly's agony. That, whether you want or not, makes Lassiter
your friend. But you cross it now strangely to mean somethin to me--God knows what!--unless
by your noble blindness to incite me to greater hatred of Mormon men."

Jane felt swayed by a strength that far exceeded her own. In a clash of wills with this man
she would go to the wall. If she were to influence him it must be wholly through womanly allurement.
There was that about Lassiter which commanded her respect. She had abhorred his name; face
to face with him, she found she feared only his deeds. "Read that," she said, making a violent effort
to say the words.

She fell into a chair, seemingly exhausted. While the old man searched for his spectacles and
rubbed their glasses, she raised her eyes to him, and seemed to study him with curiosity; then
she said in an altered voice, and very softly,-- "I trust you."

"I am here to share your crime," replied the good man, simply.

She quivered. For the first time in that little town, her soul sympathized
with that of another.

The old man now understood both the hopes and the fears of the poor woman. The letter was from her
son. He had returned to France to share in Granville's expedition, and was taken prisoner. The
letter was written from his cell, but it told her to hope. He did not doubt his means of escape,
and he named to her three days, on one of which he expected to be with her in disguise. But
in case he did not reach Carentan by the third day, she might know some fatal difficulty had occurred,
and the letter contained his last wishes and a sad farewell. The
paper trembled in the old man's hand. "This is the third day," cried
the countess, rising and walking hurriedly up and down.

"You have been very imprudent," said the merchant.

"Why send Brigitte to buy those provisions?" "But he may arrive half-dead
with hunger, exhausted, and--"

She could say no more.

"I am sure of my brother the mayor," said the old man.

"I will see him at once, and put him in your interests."

After talking with the mayor, the shrewd old man made visits on various
pretexts to the principal families of Carentan, to all of whom he
mentioned that Madame de Dey, in spite of her illness, would receive
her friends that evening.

Matching his own craft against those wily Norman minds, he replied to the questions put to him
on the nature of Madame de Dey's illness in a manner that hoodwinked
the community.

He related to a gouty old dame, that Madame de Dey had almost died of a sudden attack of gout in
the stomach, but had been relieved by a remedy which the famous
doctor, Tronchin, had once recommended to her,-- namely, to apply
the skin of a freshly-flayed hare on the pit of the stomach, and to
remain in bed without making the slightest movement for two days.

This tale had prodigious success, and the doctor of Carentan, a royalist
"in petto," increased its effect by the manner in which he discussed
the remedy.

Nevertheless, suspicions had taken too strong a root in the minds
of some obstinate persons, and a few philosophers, to be thus dispelled;
so that all Madame de Dey's usual visitors came eagerly and early that
evening to watch her countenance: some out of true friendship, but
most of them to detect the secret of her seclusion. They found the
countess seated as usual, at the corner of the great fireplace in
her salon, a room almost as unpretentious as the other salons in Carentan;
for, in order not to wound the narrow view of her guests, she denied
herself the luxuries to which she was accustomed.

The floor of her reception room was not even waxed, the walls were still hung with dingy tapestries;
she used the country furniture, burned tallow candles, and followed
the customs of the town,-- adopting provincial life, and not shrinking
from its pettiness or its many disagreeable privations.

Knowing, however, that her guests would pardon luxuries if provided for their own comfort, she
neglected nothing which conduced to their personal enjoyment, and gave them, more especially,
excellent dinners. Toward seven o'clock on this memorable evening,
her guests were all assembled in a wide circle around the fireplace.

The mistress of the house, sustained in her part by the sympathizing
glances of the old merchant, submitted with wonderful courage to the
minute questioning and stupid, or frivolous, comments of her visitors.

At every rap upon her door, every footfall echoing in the street, she hid
her emotions by starting topics relating to the interests of the town,
and she raised such a lively discussion on the quality of ciders, which
was ably seconded by the old merchant, that the company almost forgot
to watch her, finding her countenance quite natural, and her composure
imperturbable.

The public prosecutor and one of the judges of the revolutionary tribunal
was taciturn, observing attentively every change in her face; every
now and then they addressed her some embarrassing question, to which,
however, the countess answered with admirable presence of mind. Mothers
have such courage!

After Madame de Dey had arranged the card parties, placing some guests at the boston, and
some at the whist tables, she stood talking to a number of young people with extreme ease and liveliness
of manner, playing her part like a consummate actress.

Presently she suggested a game of loto, and offered to find the box, on the ground that she alone
knew where it was, and then she disappeared. "I am suffocating, my poor Brigitte," she cried,
wiping the tears that gushed from her eyes, now brilliant with fever, anxiety, and impatience. "He
does not come," she moaned, looking round the room prepared for her son. "Here alone I can breathe, I can
live! A few minutes more and he must be here; for I know he is living.
I am certain of it, my heart says so. Don't you hear something, Brigitte?
I would give the rest of my life to know at this moment whether he were
still in prison, or out in the free country. Oh! I wish I could stop
thinking--"

She again examined the room to see if all were in order. A good fire burned on the hearth, the shutters
were carefully closed, the furniture shone with rubbing; even the manner
in which the bed was made showed that the countess had assisted Brigitte
in every detail; her hopes were uttered in the delicate care given
to that room where she expected to fold her son in her arms.

A mother alone could have thought of all his wants; a choice repast,
rare wine, fresh linen, slippers, in short, everything the tired man
would need,-- all were there that nothing might be lacking; the comforts
of his home should reveal to him without words the tenderness of his
mother!

"Brigitte!" said the countess, in a heart-rending tone, placing a chair
before the table, as if to give a semblance of reality to her hopes,
and so increase the strength of her illusions. "Ah! madame, he will
come. He is not far off.

I haven't a doubt he is living, and on his way," replied Brigitte. "I
put a key in the Bible, and I held it on my fingers while Cottin
read a chapter in the gospel of Saint John; and, madame, the key never
turned at all!"

"Is that a good sign?" asked the countess.

"Oh! madame, that's a well-known sign. I would wager my salvation,
he still lives. God would not so deceive us."

"Ah! if he would only come-- no matter for his danger here." "Poor Monsieur Auguste!" cried Brigitte,
"he must be toiling along the roads on foot." "There's eight o'clock striking now," cried the countess,
in terror.

She dared not stay away any longer from her guests; but before re-entering the salon, she paused
a moment under the peristyle of the staircase, listening if any sound
were breaking the silence of the street.

She smiled at Brigitte's husband, who was standing sentinel at the
door, and whose eyes seemed stupefied by the intensity of his attention
to the murmurs of the street and night.

Madame de Dey re-entered her salon, affecting gaiety, and began to
play loto with the young people; but after a while she complained
of feeling ill, and returned to her chimney-corner.

Such was the situation of affairs, and of people's minds in the house of Madame de Dey, while
along the road, between Paris and Cherbourg, a young man in a brown
jacket, called a "carmagnole," worn de rigueur at that period, was making
his way to Carentan. When drafts for the army were first instituted,
there was little or no discipline.

The requirements of the moment did not allow the Republic to equip its soldiers immediately,
and it was not an unusual thing to see the roads covered with recruits, who were still wearing
citizen's dress. These young men either preceded or lagged behind
their respective battalions, according to their power of enduring
the fatigues of a long march.

The young man
of whom we are now speaking, was much in advance of a column of recruits,
known to be on its way from Cherbourg, which the mayor of Carentan
was awaiting hourly, in order to give them their billets for the
night.

The young man walked with a jades step, but firmly, and his gait
seemed to show that he had long been familiar with military hardships.

Though the moon was shining on the meadows about Carentan, he had
noticed heavy clouds on the horizon, and the fear of being overtaken
by a tempest may have hurried his steps, which were certainly more
brisk than his evident lassitude could have desired.

On his back was an almost empty bag, and he held in his hand a boxwood
stick, cut from the tall broad hedges of that shrub, which is so frequent
in Lower Normandy.

This solitary wayfarer entered Carentan, the steeples of which, touched by the moonlight, had only
just appeared to him.

His step woke the echoes of the silent streets, but he met no one
until he came to the shop of a weaver, who was still at work.

From him he inquired his way to the mayor's house, and the way-worn
recruit soon found himself seated in the porch of that establishment,
waiting for the billet he had asked for.

Instead of receiving it at once, he was summoned to the mayor's presence,
where he found himself the object of minute observation.

The young man was good-looking, and belonged, evidently, to a distinguished
family.

His air and manner were those of the nobility. The intelligence of
a good education was in his face.

"What is your name?" asked the mayor, giving him a shrewd and meaning
look.

"Julien Jussieu." "Where do you come from?" continued the magistrate, with a smile of incredulity.
"Paris." "Your comrades are at some distance," resumed the Norman official, in a sarcastic tone.
"I am nine miles in advance of the battalion."

"Some strong feeling must be bringing you to Carentan, citizen recruit," said the mayor, slyly.
"Very good, very good," he added hastily, silencing with a wave of
his hand a reply the young man was about to make.

"I know where to send you. Here," he added, giving him his billet, "take this and go to that
house,'Citizen Jussieu.'" So saying, the mayor held out to the recruit
a billet, on which the address of Madame de Dey's house was written.

The young man read it with an air of curiosity. "He knows he hasn't far to go," thought the mayor
as the recruit left the house. "That's a bold fellow! God guide him!
He seemed to have his answers ready. But he'd have been lost if any
one but I had questioned him and demanded to see his papers."

At that instant, the clocks of Carentan struck half-past nine; the
lanterns were lighted in Madame de Dey's antechamber; the servants
were helping their masters and mistresses to put on their clogs, their
cloaks, and their mantles; the card-players had paid their debts,
and all the guests were preparing to leave together after the established
customs of provincial towns.

"The prosecutor, it seems, has stayed behind," said a lady, perceiving that that important personage
was missing, when the company parted in the large square to go to their
several houses.

That terrible magistrate was, in fact, alone with the countess, who waited, trembling, till it should
please him to depart.

"Citoyenne," he said, after a long silence in which there was something
terrifying, "I am here to enforce the laws of the Republic." Madame
de Dey shuddered. "Have you nothing to reveal to me?" he demanded. "Nothing,"
she replied, astonished.

"Ah! madame," cried the prosecutor, changing his tone and seating himself beside her, "at this moment,
for want of a word between us, you and I may be risking our heads on the scaffold. I have too long
observed your character, your soul, your manners, to share the error into which you have persuaded
your friends this evening. You are, I cannot doubt, expecting your
son."

The countess made a gesture of denial; but she had turned pale, the muscles of her face contracted
from the effort that she made to exhibit firmness, and the implacable
eye of the public prosecutor lost none of her movements.

"Well, receive him," continued the functionary of the Revolution, "but
do not keep him under your roof later than seven o'clock in the morning.

To-morrow, at eight, I shall be at your door with a denunciation." She looked at him with a
stupid air that might have made a tiger pitiful. "I will prove," he continued in a kindly voice,
"the falsity of the denunciation, by making a careful search of the premises; and the nature of
my report will protect you in future from all suspicions. I will speak of your patriotic gifts, your
civic virtues, and that will save you."

Madame de Dey feared a trap, and she stood motionless; but her face was on fire, and her tongue
stiff in her mouth. A rap sounded on the door. "Oh!" cried the mother,
falling on her knees, "save him! save him!"

"Yes, we will save him," said the official, giving her a look of
passion; "if it costs us our life, we will save him."

"I am lost!" she murmured, as the prosecutor raised her courteously.

"Madame," he said, with an oratorical movement, "I will owe you only--
to yourself."

"Madame, he has come," cried Brigitte, rushing in and thinking her
mistress was alone.

At sight of the public prosecutor, the old woman, flushed and joyous
as she was, became motionless and livid.

"Who has come?" asked the prosecutor.

"A recruit, whom the mayor has sent to lodge here," replied Brigitte, showing the billet. "True,"
said the prosecutor, reading the paper. "We expect a detachment to-night." And he went away.
The countess had too much need at this moment to believe in the sincerity of her former attorney,
to distrust his promise.

She mounted the stairs rapidly, though her strength seemed failing her; then she opened the door,
saw her son, and fell into his arms half dead,-- "Oh! my child! my
child!" she cried, sobbing, and covering him with kisses in a sort
of frenzy.

"Madame!" said an unknown man. "Ah! it is not he!" she cried, recoiling in terror, and standing
erect before the recruit, at whom she gazed with a haggard eye.

"Holy Father! what a likeness!" said Brigitte. There was silence for a moment. The recruit himself
shuddered at the aspect of Madame de Dey.

"Ah! monsieur," she said, leaning on Brigitte's husband, who had entered the room, and feeling
to its fullest extent an agony the fear of which had already nearly killed her. "Monsieur, I
cannot stay with you longer. Allow my people to attend upon you." She returned to her own room,
half carried by Brigitte and her old servant.

"Oh!
madame," said Brigitte, as she undressed her mistress, "must that man sleep in Monsieur Auguste's
bed, and put on Monsieur Auguste's slippers, and eat the pate I made
for Monsieur Auguste?

They may guillotine me if I--" "Brigitte!" cried Madame de Dey. Brigitte was mute. "Hush!" said
her husband in her ear, "do you want to kill madame?"

At that moment the recruit made a noise in the room above by sitting down
to his supper. "I cannot stay here!" cried Madame de Dey.

"I will go into the greenhouse; there I can hear what happens outside
during the night."

She still floated between the fear of having lost her son and the
hope of his suddenly appearing.

The night was horribly silent.

There was one dreadful moment for the countess, when the battalion
of recruits passed through the town, and went to their several billets.
Every step, every sound, was a hope,-- and a lost hope.

After that the stillness continued. Towards morning the countess
was obliged to return to her room. Brigitte, who watched her movements,
was uneasy when she did not reappear, and entering the room she found
her dead.

"She must have heard that recruit walking about Monsieur Auguste's
room, and singing their damned Marseillaise, as if he were in a stable,"
cried Brigitte.

"That was enough to kill her!" The death of the countess had a far
more solemn cause; it resulted, no doubt, from an awful vision. At the
exact hour when Madame de Dey died at Carentan, her son was shot in
the Morbihan.

That tragic fact may be added to many recorded observations on sympathies that are known to ignore
the laws of space: records which men of solitude are collecting with far-seeing curiosity, and
which will some day serve as the basis of a new science for which,
up to the present time, a man of genius has been lacking.
Otherwise he would have been the same calm, dark-browed, impenetrable man she had known for
ten years. In fact, except when he had revealed his passion in the matter of the seizing of
Venters, she had never dreamed he could be other than the grave, reproving preacher. He stood
out now a strange, secretive man. She would have thought better of him if he had picked up
the threads of their quarrel where they had parted. Was Tull what he appeared to be? The question
flung itself in-voluntarily over Jane Withersteen's inhibitive habit of faith without question.
And she refused to answer it. Tull could not fight in the open Venters had said, Lassiter had
said, that her Elder shirked fight and worked in the dark. Just now in this meeting Tull had
ignored the fact that he had sued, exhorted, demanded that she marry him. He made no mention
of Venters. His manner was that of the minister who had been outraged, but who overlooked the
frailties of a woman. Beyond question he seemed unutterably aloof from all knowledge of pressure
being brought to bear upon her, absolutely guiltless of any connection with secret power over
riders, with night journeys, with rustlers and stampedes of cattle. And that convinced her
again of unjust suspicions. But it was convincement through an obstinate faith. She shuddered
as she accepted it, and that shudder was the nucleus of a terrible revolt.

Jane turned into one of the wide lanes leading from the main street and entered a huge, shady
yard. Here were sweet-smelling clover, alfalfa, flowers, and vegetables, all growing in happy
confusion. And like these fresh green things were the dozens of babies, tots, toddlers, noisy
urchins, laughing girls, a whole multitude of children of one family. For Collier Brandt, the
father of all this numerous progeny, was a Mormon with four wives.

The big house where they lived was old, solid, picturesque the lower part built of logs, the
upper of rough clapboards, with vines growing up the outside stone chimneys. There were many
wooden-shuttered windows, and one pretentious window of glass proudly curtained in white. As
this house had four mistresses, it likewise had four separate sections, not one of which communicated
with another, and all had to be entered from the outside.

In the shade of a wide, low, vine-roofed porch Jane found Brandt's wives entertaining Bishop
Dyer. They were motherly women, of comparatively similar ages, and plain-featured, and just
at this moment anything but grave. The Bishop was rather tall, of stout build, with iron-gray
hair and beard, and eyes of light blue. They were merry now; but Jane had seen them when they
were not, and then she feared him as she had feared her father.

The women flocked around her in welcome.

"Daughter of Withersteen," said the Bishop, gaily, as he took her hand, "you have not been
prodigal of your gracious self of late. A Sabbath without you at service! I shall reprove Elder
Tull."

"Bishop, the guilt is mine. I'll come to you and confess," Jane replied, lightly; but she felt
the undercurrent of her words.

"Mormon love-making!" exclaimed the Bishop, rubbing his hands. "Tull keeps you all to himself."

"No. He is not courting me."

"What? The laggard! If he does not make haste I'll go a-courting myself up to Withersteen House."

There was laughter and further bantering by the Bishop, and then mild talk of village affairs,
after which he took his leave, and Jane was left with her friend, Mary Brandt.

"Jane, you're not yourself. Are you sad about the rustling of the cattle? But you have so many,
you are so rich."

Then Jane confided in her, telling much, yet holding back her doubts of fear.

"Oh, why don't you marry Tull and be one of us?

"But, Mary, I don't love Tull," said Jane, stubbornly.

"I don't blame you for that. But, Jane Withersteen, you've got to choose between the love of
man and love of God. Often we Mormon women have to do that. It's not easy. The kind of happiness
you want I wanted once. I never got it, nor will you, unless you throw away your soul. We've
all watched your affair with Venters in fear and trembling. Some dreadful thing will come of
it. You don't want him hanged or shot--or treated worse, as that Gentile boy was treated in
Glaze for fooling round a Mormon woman. Marry Tull. It's your duty as a Mormon. You'll feel
no rapture as his wife--but think of Heaven! Mormon women don't marry for what they expect
on earth. Take up the cross, Jane. Remember your father found Amber Spring, built these old
houses, brought Mormons here, and fathered them. You are the daughter of Withersteen!"

Jane left Mary Brandt and went to call upon other friends. They received her with the same
glad welcome as had Mary, lavished upon her the pent-up affection of Mormon women, and let
her go with her ears ringing of Tull, Venters, Lassiter, of duty to God and glory in Heaven.

"Verily," murmured Jane, "I don't know myself when, through all this, I remain unchanged--nay,
more fixed of purpose."

She returned to the main street and bent her thoughtful steps toward the center of the village.
A string of wagons drawn by oxen was lumbering along. These "sage-freighters," as they were
called, hauled grain and flour and merchandise from Sterling, and Jane laughed suddenly in
the midst of her humility at the thought that they were her property, as was one of the three
stores for which they freighted goods. The water that flowed along the path at her feet, and
turned into each cottage-yard to nourish garden and orchard, also was hers, no less her private
property because she chose to give it free. Yet in this village of Cottonwoods, which her father
had founded and which she maintained she was not her own mistress; she was not able to abide
by her own choice of a husband. She was the daughter of Withersteen. Suppose she proved it,
imperiously! But she quelled that proud temptation at its birth.

Nothing could have replaced the affection which the village people had for her; no power could
have made her happy as the pleasure her presence gave. As she went on down the street past
the stores with their rude platform entrances, and the saloons where tired horses stood with
bridles dragging, she was again assured of what was the bread and wine of life to her--that
she was loved. Dirty boys playing in the ditch, clerks, teamsters, riders, loungers on the
corners, ranchers on dusty horses little girls running errands, and women hurrying to the stores
all looked up at her coming with glad eyes.

Jane's various calls and wandering steps at length led her to the Gentile quarter of the village.
This was at the extreme southern end, and here some thirty Gentile families lived in huts and
shacks and log-cabins and several dilapidated cottages. The fortunes of these inhabitants of
Cottonwoods could be read in their abodes. Water they had in abundance, and therefore grass
and fruit-trees and patches of alfalfa and vegetable gardens. Some of the men and boys had
a few stray cattle, others obtained such intermittent employment as the Mormons reluctantly
tendered them. But none of the families was prosperous, many were very poor, and some lived
only by Jane Withersteen's beneficence.

As it made Jane happy to go among her own people, so it saddened her to come in contact with
these Gentiles. Yet that was not because she was unwelcome; here she was gratefully received
by the women, passionately by the children. But poverty and idleness, with their attendant
wretchedness and sorrow, always hurt her. That she could alleviate this distress more now than
ever before proved the adage that it was an ill wind that blew nobody good. While her Mormon
riders were in her employ she had found few Gentiles who would stay with her, and now she was
able to find employment for all the men and boys. No little shock was it to have man after
man tell her that he dare not accept her kind offer.

"It won't do," said one Carson, an intelligent man who had seen better days. "We've had our
warning. Plain and to the point! Now there's Judkins, he packs guns, and he can use them, and
so can the daredevil boys he's hired. But they've little responsibility. Can we risk having
our homes burned in our absence?"

Jane felt the stretching and chilling of the skin of her face as the blood left it.

"Carson, you and the others rent these houses?" she asked.

"You ought to know, Miss Withersteen. Some of them are yours."

"I know?... Carson, I never in my life took a day's labor for rent or a yearling calf or a
bunch of grass, let alone gold."

"Bivens, your store-keeper, sees to that."

"Look here, Carson," went on Jane, hurriedly, and now her cheeks were burning. "You and Black
and Willet pack your goods and move your families up to my cabins in the grove. They're far
more comfortable than these. Then go to work for me. And if aught happens to you there I'll
give you money--gold enough to leave Utah!"

The man choked and stammered, and then, as tears welled into his eyes, he found the use of
his tongue and cursed. No gentle speech could ever have equaled that curse in eloquent expression
of what he felt for Jane Withersteen. How strangely his look and tone reminded her of Lassiter!

"No, it won't do," he said, when he had somewhat recovered himself. "Miss Withersteen, there
are things that you don't know, and there's not a soul among us who can tell you."

"I seem to be learning many things, Carson. Well, then, will you let me aid you--say till better
times?"

"Yes, I will," he replied, with his face lighting up. "I see what it means to you, and you
know what it means to me. Thank you! And if better times ever come, I'll be only too happy
to work for you."

"Better times will come. I trust God and have faith in man. Good day, Carson."

The lane opened out upon the sage-inclosed alfalfa fields, and the last habitation, at the
end of that lane of hovels, was the meanest. Formerly it had been a shed; now it was a home.
The broad leaves of a wide-spreading cottonwood sheltered the sunken roof of weathered boards.
Like an Indian hut, it had one floor. Round about it were a few scanty rows of vegetables,
such as the hand of a weak woman had time and strength to cultivate. This little dwelling-place
was just outside the village limits, and the widow who lived there had to carry her water from
the nearest irrigation ditch. As Jane Withersteen entered the unfenced yard a child saw her,
shrieked with joy, and came tearing toward her with curls flying. This child was a little girl
of four called Fay. Her name suited her, for she was an elf, a sprite, a creature so fairy-like
and beautiful that she seemed unearthly.

"Muvver sended for oo," cried Fay, as Jane kissed her, "an' oo never tome."

"I didn't know, Fay; but I've come now."

Fay was a child of outdoors, of the garden and ditch and field, and she was dirty and ragged.
But rags and dirt did not hide her beauty. The one thin little bedraggled garment she wore
half covered her fine, slim body. Red as cherries were her cheeks and lips; her eyes were violet
blue, and the crown of her childish loveliness was the curling golden hair. All the children
of Cottonwoods were Jane Withersteen's friends, she loved them all. But Fay was dearest to
her. Fay had few playmates, for among the Gentile children there were none near her age, and
the Mormon children were forbidden to play with her. So she was a shy, wild, lonely child.

"Muvver's sick," said Fay, leading Jane toward the door of the hut.

Jane went in. There was only one room, rather dark and bare, but it was clean and neat. A woman
lay upon a bed.

"Mrs. Larkin, how are you?" asked Jane, anxiously.

"I've been pretty bad for a week, but I'm better now."

"You haven't been here all alone--with no one to wait on you?"

"Oh no! My women neighbors are kind. They take turns coming in."

"Did you send for me?"

"Yes, several times."

"But I had no word--no messages ever got to me."

"I sent the boys, and they left word with your women that I was ill and would you please come."

A sudden deadly sickness seized Jane. She fought the weakness, as she fought to be above suspicious
thoughts, and it passed, leaving her conscious of her utter impotence. That, too, passed as
her spirit rebounded. But she had again caught a glimpse of dark underhand domination, running
its secret lines this time into her own household. Like a spider in the blackness of night
an unseen hand had begun to run these dark lines, to turn and twist them about her life, to
plait and weave a web. Jane Withersteen knew it now, and in the realization further coolness
and sureness came to her, and the fighting courage of her ancestors.

"Mrs. Larkin, you're better, and I'm so glad," said Jane. "But may I not do something for you--a
turn at nursing, or send you things, or take care of Fay?"

"You're so good. Since my husband's been gone what would have become of Fay and me but for
you? It was about Fay that I wanted to speak to you. This time I thought surely I'd die, and
I was worried about Fay. Well, I'll be around all right shortly, but my strength's gone and
I won't live long. So I may as well speak now. You remember you've been asking me to let you
take Fay and bring her up as your daughter?"

"Indeed yes, I remember. I'll be happy to have her. But I hope the day--"

"Never mind that. The day'll come--sooner or later. I refused your offer, and now I'll tell
you why."

"I know why," interposed Jane. "It's because you don't want her brought up as a Mormon."

"No, it wasn't altogether that." Mrs. Larkin raised her thin hand and laid it appealingly on
Jane's. "I don't like to tell you. But--it's this: I told all my friends what you wanted. They
know you, care for you, and they said for me to trust Fay to you. Women will talk, you know.
It got to the ears of Mormons--gossip of your love for Fay and your wanting her. And it came
straight back to me, in jealousy, perhaps, that you wouldn't take Fay as much for love of her
as because of your religious duty to bring up another girl for some Mormon to marry."

"That's a damnable lie!" cried Jane Withersteen.

"It was what made me hesitate," went on Mrs. Larkin, "but I never believed it at heart. And
now I guess I'll let you--"

"Wait! Mrs. Larkin, I may have told little white lies in my life, but never a lie that mattered,
that hurt any one. Now believe me. I love little Fay. If I had her near me I'd grow to worship
her. When I asked for her I thought only of that love.... Let me prove this. You and Fay come
to live with me. I've such a big house, and I'm so lonely. I'll help nurse you, take care of
you. When you're better you can work for me. I'll keep little Fay and bring her up--without
Mormon teaching. When she's grown, if she should want to leave me, I'll send her, and not empty-handed,
back to Illinois where you came from. I promise you."

"I knew it was a lie," replied the mother, and she sank back upon her pillow with something
of peace in her white, worn face. "Jane Withersteen, may Heaven bless you! I've been deeply
grateful to you. But because you're a Mormon I never felt close to you till now. I don't know
much about religion as religion, but your God and my God are the same."

CHAPTER VIII. SURPRISE VALLEY

Back in that strange canyon, which Venters had found indeed a valley of surprises, the wounded
girl's whispered appeal, almost a prayer, not to take her back to the rustlers crowned the
events of the last few days with a confounding climax. That she should not want to return to
them staggered Venters. Presently, as logical thought returned, her appeal confirmed his first
impression--that she was more unfortunate than bad--and he experienced a sensation of gladness.
If he had known before that Oldring's Masked Rider was a woman his opinion would have been
formed and he would have considered her abandoned. But his first knowledge had come when he
lifted a white face quivering in a convulsion of agony; he had heard God's name whispered by
blood-stained lips; through her solemn and awful eyes he had caught a glimpse of her soul.
And just now had come the entreaty to him, "Don't--take--me--back--there!"

Once for all Venters's quick mind formed a permanent conception of this poor girl. He based
it, not upon what the chances of life had made her, but upon the revelation of dark eyes that
pierced the infinite, upon a few pitiful, halting words that betrayed failure and wrong and
misery, yet breathed the truth of a tragic fate rather than a natural leaning to evil.

"What's your name?" he inquired.

"Bess," she answered.

"Bess what?"

"That's enough--just Bess."

The red that deepened in her cheeks was not all the flush of fever. Venters marveled anew,
and this time at the tint of shame in her face, at the momentary drooping of long lashes. There
was but one house of two stories, and that was John Pennock's, who had sufficient means to
construct such a building.

As for the governor, he did not commence building at all, until nearly
every one else was through, when he laid the corner-stones of two
habitations; one on the Peak, which was his private property, standing
on his estate; and the other on the Reef, which was strictly intended
to be a Government, or Colony House.

The first was of brick, and the last of stone, and of great solidity,
being intended as a sort of fortress.

The private dwelling was only a story and a half high, but large on the ground for that region,
measuring sixty feet square.

The. government building was much larger, measuring two hundred feet
in length, by sixty feet in depth.

This spacious edifice, however, was not altogether intended for a dwelling for the governor, but
was so arranged as to contain great quantities of public property in its basement, and to accommodate
the courts, and all the public offices on the first floor.

It had an upper story, but that was left unfinished and untenanted
for years, though fitted with arrangements for defence.

Fortunately, cellars were little wanted in that climate, for it was
not easy to have one in the group.

It is true, that Pennock caused one to be blown out with gun-powder,
under his dwelling, though every one prophesied that it would soon
be full of water.

It proved to be dry, notwithstanding; and a very good cellar it was,
being exceedingly useful against the heats, though of cold there was
none to guard against.

The Colony House stood directly opposite to the drawbridge, being placed there for the purposes
of defence, as well as to have access to the spring.

A want of water was rather an evil on the Reef; not that the sands
did not furnish an ample supply, and that of the most delicious quality,
but it had to be carried to inconvenient distances.

In general, water was found in sufficient quantities and in suitable places, among the group; but,
at the Reef, there was certainly this difficulty to contend with.

As the governor caused his brother, the surveyor-general, to lay
out a town on the Reef, it was early deemed necessary to make some
provision against this evil.

A suitable place was selected, and a cistern was blown out of the
rock, into which all the water that fell on the roof of Colony House
was led.

This reservoir, when full, contained many thousand gallons; and when
once full, it was found that the rains were sufficient to prevent
its being very easily emptied.

But the greatest improvement that was made on the Reef, after all, was in the way of soil.
As for the crater, that, by this time, was a mass of verdure, among which a thousand trees were
not only growing, but flourishing. This was as true of its plain, as of its mounds; and of its
mounds, as of its plain.

But the crater was composed of materials very different from the base of the Reef. The former was
of tufa, so far as it was rock at all; while the latter was, in the
main, pure lava.

Nevertheless, something like a soil began to form even on the Reef,
purely by the accessions caused though its use by man.

Great attention was paid to collecting everything that could contribute to the formation of earth,
in piles; and these piles were regularly removed to such cavities, or inequalities in the surface
of the rock, as would be most likely to retain their materials when spread. In this way many green patches
had been formed, and, in a good many instances, trees had been set out, in spots where it was
believed they could find sufficient nourishment. But, no sooner had the governor decided to build
on the Reef, and to make his capital there, than he set about embellishing
the place systematically.

Whenever a suitable place could be found, in what was intended for Colony House grounds, a space
of some ten acres in the rear of the building, he put in the drill, and blew out rock. The fragments
of stone were used about the building; and the place soon presented a ragged, broken surface,
of which one might well despair of making anything. By perseverance, however, and still more
by skill and judgment, the whole area was lowered more than a foot,
and in many places, where nature assisted the work, it was lowered
several feet.

It was a disputed question, indeed, whether stone for the building could not be obtained here,
by blasting, cheaper and easier, than by transporting it from Rancocus Island. Enough was procured
in this way not only to construct the building, but to enclose the grounds with a sufficient
wall. When all was got off that was wanted, boat-loads of mud and sand were brought by Kannakas, and
deposited in the cavity. This was a great work for such a community, though it proceeded faster
than, at first, one might have supposed.

The materials were very accessible, and the distances short, which greatly facilitated the labour,
though unloading was a task of some gravity. The walls of the house were got up in about six
months after the work was commenced, and the building was roofed; but, though the gardeners were
set to work as soon as the stones were out of the cavities, they had not filled more than
two acres at the end of the period mentioned.

Determined to make an end of this great work at once, the Abraham was sent over to young Ooroony
to ask for assistance. Glad enough was that chief to grant what was demanded of him, and he came
himself, at the head of five hundred men, to aid his friend in finishing
this task.

Even this strong body of labourers was busy two months longer, before the governor pronounced the
great end accomplished. Then he dismissed his neighbours with such gifts and pay as sent away
everybody contented. Many persons thought the experiment of bringing so many savages to the
Reef somewhat hazardous; but no harm ever came of it. On the contrary, the intercourse had
a good effect, by making the two people better acquainted with each
other.

The governor had a great faculty in the management of those wild beings. He not only kept
them in good-humour, but what was far more difficult, he made them work. They were converted
into a sort of Irish for his colony. It is true, one civilized man could do more than three
of the Kannakas, but the number of the last was so large that they accomplished a great deal during
their stay.

Nor would the governor have ventured to let such dangerous neighbours into the group, had there
not been still more imposing mysteries connected with the Peak, into which they were not initiated.
Even young Ooroony wag kept in ignorance of what was to be found on that dreaded island. He
saw vessels going and coming, knew that the governor often went there, saw strange faces appearing
occasionally on the Reef, that were understood to belong to the unknown land, and probably to
a people who were much more powerful than those who were in direct
communication with the natives.

The governor induced his Kannakas to work by interesting them in the explosions of the blasts,
merely to enjoy the pleasure of seeing a cart-load of rock torn from its bed. One of these men would
work at a drill all day, and then carry off the fragments to be placed
in the walls, after he had had his sport in this operation of blasting.

They seemed never to tire of the fun, and it was greatly questioned if half as much labour could have been got out
of them at any other work, as at this.

A good deal of attention was paid to rendering the soil of the colony
garden fertile, as well as deep.

In its shallowest places it exceeded a foot in depth, and in the deepest, spots where natural
fissures had aided the drill, it required four or five feet of materials to form the level. These
deep places were all marked, and were reserved for the support of trees. Not only was sand
freely mixed with the mud, or muck, but sea-weed in large quantities was laid near the surface, and
finally covered with the soil. In this manner was a foundation made that could not fail to sustain
a garden luxuriant in its products, aided by the genial heat and plentiful rains of the climate.
Shrubs, flowers, grass, and ornamental trees, however, were all the governor aimed at in these
public grounds; the plain of the crater furnishing fruit and vegetables in an abundance, as yet
far exceeding the wants of the whole colony. The great danger, indeed, that the governor most
apprehended, was that the beneficent products of the region would render his people indolent;
an idle, nation becoming, almost infallibly, vicious as well as ignorant. It was with a view
to keep the colony on the advance, and to maintain a spirit of improvement that so much attention
was so early bestowed on what might otherwise be regarded as purely
intellectual pursuits which, by creating new wants, might induce their
subjects to devise the means of supplying them.

The governor judged right; for tastes are commonly acquired by imitation, and when thus acquired,
they take the strongest hold of those who cultivate them. The effect produced by the Colony
Garden, or public grounds, was such as twenty-fold to return the
cost and labour bestowed on it.

The sight of such an improvement set both men and women to work throughout the group, and not
a dwelling was erected in the town, that the drill did not open the rock, and mud and sand
form a garden. Nor did the governor himself confine his horticultural improvements to the gardens
mentioned. Before he sent away his legion of five hundred, several hundred blasts were made
in isolated spots on the Reef; places where the natural formation favoured such a project;
and holes were formed that would receive a boat-load of soil each. In these places trees were
set out, principally cocoa-nuts, and such other plants as were natural to the situation, due
care being taken to see that each had sufficient nourishment.

The result of all this industry was to produce a great change in the state of things at the Reef.
In addition to the buildings erected, and to the gardens made and planted, within the town itself,
the whole surface of the island was more or less altered. Verdure soon made its appearance
in places where, hitherto, nothing but naked rock had been seen, and trees began to cast their
shades over the young and delicious grasses. As for the town itself, it was certainly no great
matter; containing about twenty dwellings, and otherwise being of very modest pretensions. Those
who dwelt there were principally such mechanics as found it convenient
to be at the centre of the settlement, some half a dozen persons employed
about the warehouses of the merchants, a few officials of the government,
and the families of those who depended mainly on the sea for their
support.

Each and all of these heads of families had drawn their lots, both in the group and on the Peak,
though some had sold their rights the better to get a good start
in their particular occupations.

The merchants, however, established themselves on the Reef, as a matter of necessity, each
causing a warehouse to be constructed near the water, with tackles and all the usual conveniences
for taking in and delivering goods. Each also had his dwelling near at hand. As these persons
had come well provided for the Indian trade in particular, having large stocks of such cheap
and coarse articles as took with the natives, they were already driving a profitable business,
receiving considerable quantities of sandal-wood in exchange for
their goods.

It is worthy of being mentioned, that the governor and council early passed a sort of navigation
act, the effect of which was to secure the carrying trade to the colony. The motive, however, was
more to keep the natives within safe limits, than to monopolize the profits of the seas. By the
provisions of this law, no canoe could pass from Betto's group to either of the islands of the colony, without
express permission from the governor. In order to carry on the trade, the parties met on specified
days at Ooroony's village, and there made their exchanges; vessels being sent from the Reef to bring
away the sandal-wood. With a view to the final transportation of the last to a market, Saunders
had been instructed to purchase a suitable vessel, which was to return with the Rancocus, freighted
with such heavy and cheap implements as were most wanted in the colony, including cows and mares
in particular. Physical force, in the shape of domestic animals, was greatly wanted; and it
was perhaps the most costly of all the supplies introduced into the
settlements.

Of horned cattle there were already about five-and-twenty head in the colony-- enough to make
sure of the breed; but they were either cows, steers too young to be yet of much use, and calves.
Nothing was killed, of course; but so much time must, pass before the increase would give the
succour wanted, that the governor went to unusual expense and trouble to make additions to
the herd from abroad.

As for the horses, but three had been brought over, two of which were mares. The last had foaled
twice; and there were four colts, all doing well, but wanting age to be useful. All the stock of
this character was kept on the Peak, in order to secure it from invaders; and the old animals,
even to the cows, were lightly worked there, doing a vast deal that
would otherwise remain undone.

It was so obviously advantageous to increase the amount of this sort of force, that Saunders
had strict orders to purchase the vessel mentioned, and to bring over as many beasts as he could conveniently
and safely stow. With this object in view, he was directed to call in, on the western side of
Cape Horn, and to make his purchases in South America.

The horned cattle might not be so good, coming from such a quarter, but the dangers of doubling the
Cape would be avoided.

While making these general and desultory statements touching the progress of the colony, it may
be well to say a word of Rancocus Island. The establishments necessary there, to carry on the
mills, lime and brick kilns, and the stone-quarry, induced the governor to erect a small work,
in which the persons employed in that out-colony might take refuge, in the event of an invasion.
This was done accordingly; and two pieces of artillery were regularly mounted on it. Nor was the duty
of fortifying neglected elsewhere.

As for the Peak, it was not deemed necessary to do more than improve a little upon nature;
the colony being now too numerous to suppose that it could not defend
the cove against any enemy likely to land there, should the entrance
of that secret haven be detected.

On the Reef, however, it was a very different matter. That place was as accessible as the other
was secure. The construction of so many stout stone edifices contributed largely to the defence
of the town; but the governor saw the necessity of providing the means of commanding the approaches
by water. Four distinct passages, each corresponding to a cardinal point of the compass, led from
the crater out to sea. As the south passage terminated at the bridge, it was sufficiently commanded
by the Colony House. But all the others were wider, more easy of approach, and less under the
control of the adjacent islands. But the Summit had points whence each might be raked by guns
properly planted, and batteries were accordingly constructed on these points; the twelve-pounder
being used for their armaments. Each battery had two guns; and when all was completed, it was
the opinion of the governor that the post was sufficiently well fortified. In order, however, to
give additional security, the crater was tabooed to all the Kannakas; not one of whom was permitted
ever to enter it, or even to go near it.

But defence, and building, and making soil, did not altogether occupy the attention of the colonists
during these important twelve months. Both the brothers of the governor got married; the oldest,
or the attorney-general, to the oldest sister of John Pennock, and the youngest to a sister of
the Rev. Mr. Hornblower. It was in this simple colony, as it ever has been, and ever will be in
civilized society, that, in forming matrimonial connections, like looks for like. There was no
person, or family at the Reef which could be said to belong to the highest social class of America,
if, indeed, any one could rank as high as a class immediately next
to the highest; yet, distinctions existed which were maintained usefully,
and without a thought of doing them away.

The notion that money alone makes those divisions into castes which are everywhere to be found,
and which will probably continue to be found as long as society itself exists, is a very vulgar
and fallacious notion.

It comes from the difficulty of appreciating those tastes and qualities which, not possessing ourselves,
are so many unknown and mysterious influences. In marrying Sarah Pennock, John Woolston was
slightly conscious of making a little sacrifice in these particulars, but she was a very pretty,
modest girl, of a suitable age, and the circle to choose from, it will be remembered, was very
limited. In America that connection might not have taken place; but, at the crater, it was all
well enough, and it turned out to be a very happy union. Had the sacrifice of habits and tastes
been greater, this might not have been the fact, for it is certain
that our happiness depends more on the subordinate qualities and our
cherished usages, than on principles themselves.

It is difficult to suppose that any refined woman, for instance, can ever thoroughly overcome
her disgust for a man who habitually blows his nose with his fingers, or that one bred a gentleman
can absolutely overlook, even in a wife, the want of the thousand and one little lady-like habits,
which render the sex perhaps more attractive than do their personal
charms.

Several other marriages took place, the scarcity of subjects making it somewhat hazardous to
delay: when Hobson's choice is placed before one, deliberation is of no great use. It was generally
understood that the Rancocus was to bring out very few immigrants, though permission had been
granted to Capt. Saunders to take letters to certain friends of some already settled in the colony,
with the understanding that those friends were to be received, should they determine to come. That
point, however, was soon to be decided, for just a year and one week after the Rancocus had
sailed from Betto's group, the news reached the Reef that the good ship was coming into the northern
roads, and preparing to anchor. The governor immediately went on board the Anne, taking Betts
with him, and made sail for the point in question, with a view to
bring the vessel through the passage to the Reef.

The governor and Betts were the only two who, as it was believed, could carry so large a vessel
through; though later soundings showed it was only necessary to keep clear of the points and
the shores, in order to bring in a craft of any draught of water. Venters
crossed this belt of cedars, skirted the upper border, and recognized the tree he had marked,
even before he saw his waving scarf.

Here he knelt and deposited the girl gently, feet first and slowly laid her out full length.
What he feared was to reopen one of her wounds. If he gave her a violent jar, or slipped and
fell! But the supreme confidence so strangely felt that night admitted no such blunders.

The slope before him seemed to swell into obscurity to lose its definite outline in a misty,
opaque cloud that shaded into the over-shadowing wall. He scanned the rim where the serrated
points speared the sky, and he found the zigzag crack. It was dim, only a shade lighter than
the dark ramparts, but he distinguished it, and that served.

Lifting the girl, he stepped upward, closely attending to the nature of the path under his
feet. After a few steps he stopped to mark his line with the crack in the rim. The dogs clung
closer to him. While chasing the rabbit this slope had appeared interminable to him; now, burdened
as he was, he did not think of length or height or toil. He remembered only to avoid a misstep
and to keep his direction. He climbed on, with frequent stops to watch the rim, and before
he dreamed of gaining the bench he bumped his knees into it, and saw, in the dim gray light,
his rifle and the rabbit. He had come straight up without mishap or swerving off his course,
and his shut teeth unlocked.

As he laid the girl down in the shallow hollow of the little ridge with her white face upturned,
she opened her eyes. Wide, staring black, at once like both the night and the stars, they made
her face seem still whiter.

"Is--it--you?" she asked, faintly.

"Yes," replied Venters.

"Oh! Where--are we?"

"I'm taking you to a safe place where no one will ever find you. I must climb a little here
and call the dogs. Don't be afraid. I'll soon come for you."

She said no more. Her eyes watched him steadily for a moment and then closed. Venters pulled
off his boots and then felt for the little steps in the rock. The shade of the cliff above
obscured the point he wanted to gain, but he could see dimly a few feet before him. What he
had attempted with care he now went at with surpassing lightness. Buoyant, rapid, sure, he
attained the corner of wall and slipped around it. Here he could not see a hand before his
face, so he groped along, found a little flat space, and there removed the saddle-bags. The
lasso he took back with him to the corner and looped the noose over the spur of rock.

"Ring--Whitie--come," he called, softly.

Low whines came up from below.

"Here! Come, Whitie--Ring," he repeated, this time sharply.

Then followed scraping of claws and pattering of feet; and out of the gray gloom below him
swiftly climbed the dogs to reach his side and pass beyond.

Venters descended, holding to the lasso. He tested its strength by throwing all his weight
upon it. Then he gathered the girl up, and, holding her securely in his left arm, he began
to climb, at every few steps jerking his right hand upward along the lasso. It sagged at each
forward movement he made, but he balanced himself lightly during the interval when he lacked
the support of a taut rope. He climbed as if he had wings, the strength of a giant, and knew
not the sense of fear. The sharp corner of cliff seemed to cut out of the darkness. He reached
it and the protruding shelf, and then, entering the black shade of the notch, he moved blindly
but surely to the place where he had left the saddle-bags. He heard the dogs, though he could
not see them. Once more he carefully placed the girl at his feet. Then, on hands and knees,
he went over the little flat space, feeling for stones. He removed a number, and, scraping
the deep dust into a heap, he unfolded the outer blanket from around the girl and laid her
upon this bed. Then he went down the slope again for his boots, rifle, and the rabbit, and,
bringing also his lasso with him, he made short work of that trip.

"Are--you--there?" The girl's voice came low from the blackness.

"Yes," he replied, and was conscious that his laboring breast made speech difficult.

"Are we--in a cave?"

"Yes."

"Oh, listen!... The waterfall!... I hear it! You've brought me back!"

Venters heard a murmuring moan that one moment swelled to a pitch almost softly shrill and
the next lulled to a low, almost inaudible sigh.

"That's--wind blowing--in the--cliffs," he panted. "You're far from Oldring's--canyon."

The effort it cost him to speak made him conscious of extreme lassitude following upon great
exertion. It seemed that when he lay down and drew his blanket over him the action was the
last before utter prostration. He stretched inert, wet, hot, his body one great strife of throbbing,
stinging nerves and bursting veins. And there he lay for a long while before he felt that he
had begun to rest.

Rest came to him that night, but no sleep. Sleep he did not want. The hours of strained effort
were now as if they had never been, and he wanted to think. Earlier in the day he had dismissed
an inexplicable feeling of change; but now, when there was no longer demand on his cunning
and strength and he had time to think, he could not catch the illusive thing that had sadly
perplexed as well as elevated his spirit.

Above him, through a V-shaped cleft in the dark rim of the cliff, shone the lustrous stars
that had been his lonely accusers for a long, long year. To-night they were different. He studied
them. Larger, whiter, more radiant they seemed; but that was not the difference he meant. Gradually
it came to him that the distinction was not one he saw, but one he felt. In this he divined
as much of the baffling change as he thought would be revealed to him then. And as he lay there,
with the singing of the cliff-winds in his ears, the white stars above the dark, bold vent,
the difference which he felt was that he was no longer alone.

CHAPTER IX. SILVER SPRUCE AND ASPENS

The rest of that night seemed to Venters only a few moments of starlight, a dark overcasting
of sky, an hour or so of gray gloom, and then the lighting of dawn.

When he had bestirred himself, feeding the hungry dogs and breaking his long fast, and had
repacked his saddle-bags, it was clear daylight, though the sun had not tipped the yellow wall
in the east. He concluded to make the climb and descent into Surprise Valley in one trip. To
that end he tied his blanket upon Ring and gave Whitie the extra lasso and the rabbit to carry.
Then, with the rifle and saddle-bags slung upon his back, he took up the girl. She did not
awaken from heavy slumber.

That climb up under the rugged, menacing brows of the broken cliffs, in the face of a grim,
leaning boulder that seemed to be weary of its age-long wavering, was a tax on strength and
nerve that Venters felt equally with something sweet and strangely exulting in its accomplishment.
He did not pause until he gained the narrow divide and there he rested. Balancing Rock loomed
huge, cold in the gray light of dawn, a thing without life, yet it spoke silently to Venters:
"I am waiting to plunge down, to shatter and crash, roar and boom, to bury your trail, and
close forever the outlet to Deception Pass!"

On the descent of the other side Venters had easy going, but was somewhat concerned because
Whitie appeared to have succumbed to temptation, and while carrying the rabbit was also chewing
on it. And Ring evidently regarded this as an injury to himself, especially as he had carried
the heavier load. Presently he snapped at one end of the rabbit and refused to let go. But
his action prevented Whitie from further misdoing, and then the two dogs pattered down, carrying
the rabbit between them.

Venters turned out of the gorge, and suddenly paused stock-still, astounded at the scene before
him. The curve of the great stone bridge had caught the sunrise, and through the magnificent
arch burst a glorious stream of gold that shone with a long slant down into the center of Surprise
Valley. Only through the arch did any sunlight pass, so that all the rest of the valley lay
still asleep, dark green, mysterious, shadowy, merging its level into walls as misty and soft
as morning clouds.

Venters then descended, passing through the arch, looking up at its tremendous height and sweep.
It spanned the opening to Surprise Valley, stretching in almost perfect curve from rim to rim.
Even in his hurry and concern Venters could not but feel its majesty, and the thought came
to him that the cliff-dwellers must have regarded it as an object of worship.

Down, down, down Venters strode, more and more feeling the weight of his burden as he descended,
and still the valley lay below him. As all other canyons and coves and valleys had deceived
him, so had this deep, nestling oval. At length he passed beyond the slope of weathered stone
that spread fan-shape from the arch, and encountered a grassy terrace running to the right
and about on a level with the tips of the oaks and cottonwoods below. Scattered here and there
upon this shelf were clumps of aspens, and he walked through them into a glade that surpassed
in beauty and adaptability for a wild home, any place he had ever seen. Silver spruces bordered
the base of a precipitous wall that rose loftily. Caves indented its surface, and there were
no detached ledges or weathered sections that might dislodge a stone. The level ground, beyond
the spruces, dropped down into a little ravine. This was one dense line of slender aspens from
which came the low splashing of water. And the terrace, lying open to the west, afforded unobstructed
view of the valley of green treetops.

For his camp Venters chose a shady, grassy plot between the silver spruces and the cliff. Here,
in the stone wall, had been wonderfully carved by wind or washed by water several deep caves
above the level of the terrace. They were clean, dry, roomy.

He cut spruce boughs and made a bed in the largest cave and laid the girl there. The first
intimation that he had of her being aroused from sleep or lethargy was a low call for water.

He hurried down into the ravine with his canteen. It was a shallow, grass-green place with
aspens growing up everywhere. To his delight he found a tiny brook of swift-running water.
Its faint tinge of amber reminded him of the spring at Cottonwoods, and the thought gave him
a little shock. The water was so cold it made his fingers tingle as he dipped the canteen.
Having returned to the cave, he was glad to see the girl drink thirstily. This time he noted
that she could raise her head slightly without his help.

"You were thirsty," he said. "It's good water. I've found a fine place. Tell me--how do you feel?"

"There's pain--here," she replied, and moved her hand to her left side.

"Why, that's strange! Your wounds are on your right side. I believe you're hungry. Is the pain
a kind of dull ache--a gnawing?"

"It's like--that."

"Then it's hunger." Venters laughed, and suddenly caught himself with a quick breath and felt
again the little shock. When had he laughed? "It's hunger," he went on. "I've had that gnaw
many a time. I've got it now. But you mustn't eat. You can have all the water you want, but
no food just yet."

"Won't I--starve?"

"No, people don't starve easily. I've discovered that. You must lie perfectly still and rest
and sleep--for days."

"My hands--are dirty; my face feels--so hot and sticky; my boots hurt." It was her longest
speech as yet, and it trailed off in a whisper.

"Well, I'm a fine nurse!"

It annoyed him that he had never thought of these things. But then, awaiting her death and
thinking of her comfort were vastly different matters. He unwrapped the blanket which covered
her. What a slender girl she was! No wonder he had been able to carry her miles and pack her
up that slippery ladder of stone. Her boots were of soft, fine leather, reaching clear to her
knees. He recognized the make as one of a boot-maker in Sterling. Her spurs, that he had stupidly
neglected to remove, consisted of silver frames and gold chains, and the rowels, large as silver
dollars, were fancifully engraved. The boots slipped off rather hard. She wore heavy woollen
rider's stockings, half length, and these were pulled up over the ends of her short trousers.
Venters took off the stockings to note her little feet were red and swollen. He bathed them.
Then he removed his scarf and bathed her face and hands.

"I must see your wounds now," he said, gently.

She made no reply, but watched him steadily as he opened her blouse and untied the bandage.
His strong fingers trembled a little as he removed it. If the wounds had reopened! A chill
struck him as he saw the angry red bullet-mark, and a tiny stream of blood winding from it
down her white breast. Very carefully he lifted her to see that the wound in her back had closed
perfectly. Then he washed the blood from her breast, bathed the wound, and left it unbandaged,
open to the air.

Her eyes thanked him.

"Listen," he said, earnestly. "I've had some wounds, and I've seen many. I know a little about
them. The hole in your back has closed. If you lie still three days the one in your breast
will close and you'll be safe. The danger from hemorrhage will be over."

He had spoken with earnest sincerity, almost eagerness.

"Why--do you--want me--to get well?" she asked, wonderingly.

The simple question seemed unanswerable except on grounds of humanity. But the circumstances
under which he had shot this strange girl, the shock and realization, the waiting for death,
the hope, had resulted in a condition of mind wherein Venters wanted her to live more than
he had ever wanted anything. Yet he could not tell why. He believed the killing of the rustler
and the subsequent excitement had disturbed him. For how else could he explain the throbbing
of his brain, the heat of his blood, the undefined sense of full hours, charged, vibrant with
pulsating mystery where once they had dragged in loneliness?

"I shot you," he said, slowly, "and I want you to get well so I shall not have killed a woman.
But--for your own sake, too--"

A terrible bitterness darkened her eyes, and her lips quivered.

"Hush," said Venters. "You've talked too much already."

In her unutterable bitterness he saw a darkness of mood that could not have been caused by
her present weak and feverish state. She hated the life she had led, that she probably had
been compelled to lead. She had suffered some unforgivable wrong at the hands of Oldring. With
that conviction Venters felt a shame throughout his body, and it marked the rekindling of fierce
anger and ruthlessness. In the past long year he had nursed resentment. He had hated the wilderness--the
loneliness of the uplands. He had waited for something to come to pass. It had come. Like an
Indian stealing horses he had skulked into the recesses of the canyons. He had found Oldring's
retreat; he had killed a rustler; he had shot an unfortunate girl, then had saved her from
this unwitting act, and he meant to save her from the consequent wasting of blood, from fever
and weakness. Starvation he had to fight for her and for himself. Where he had been sick at
the letting of blood, now he remembered it in grim, cold calm. And as he lost that softness
of nature, so he lost his fear of men. He would watch for Oldring, biding his time, and he
would kill this great black-bearded rustler who had held a girl in bondage, who had used her
to his infamous ends.

Venters surmised this much of the change in him--idleness had passed; keen, fierce vigor flooded
his mind and body; all that had happened to him at Cottonwoods seemed remote and hard to recall;
the difficulties and perils of the present absorbed him, held him in a kind of spell.

First, then, he fitted up the little cave adjoining the girl's room for his own comfort and
use. His next work was to build a fireplace of stones and to gather a store of wood. That done,
he spilled the contents of his saddle-bags upon the grass and took stock. His outfit consisted
of a small-handled axe, a hunting-knife, a large number of cartridges for rifle or revolver,
a tin plate, a cup, and a fork and spoon, a quantity of dried beef and dried fruits, and small
canvas bags containing tea, sugar, salt, and pepper. For him alone this supply would have been
bountiful to begin a sojourn in the wilderness, but he was no longer alone. Starvation in the
uplands was not an unheard-of thing; he did not, however, worry at all on that score, and feared
only his possible inability to supply the needs of a woman in a weakened and extremely delicate
condition.

If there was no game in the valley--a contingency he doubted--it would not be a great task
for him to go by night to Oldring's herd and pack out a calf. The exigency of the moment was
to ascertain if there were game in Surprise Valley. Whitie still guarded the dilapidated rabbit,
and Ring slept near by under a spruce. Venters called Ring and went to the edge of the terrace,
and there halted to survey the valley.

He was prepared to find it larger than his unstudied glances had made it appear; for more than
a casual idea of dimensions and a hasty conception of oval shape and singular beauty he had
not had time. Again the felicity of the name he had given the valley struck him forcibly. Around
the red perpendicular walls, except under the great arc of stone, ran a terrace fringed at
the cliff-base by silver spruces; below that first terrace sloped another wider one densely
overgrown with aspens, and the center of the valley was a level circle of oaks and alders,
with the glittering green line of willows and cottonwood dividing it in half. Venters saw a
number and variety of birds flitting among the trees. To his left, facing the stone bridge,
an enormous cavern opened in the wall; and low down, just above the tree-tops, he made out
a long shelf of cliff-dwellings, with little black, staring windows or doors. Like eyes they
were, and seemed to watch him. The few cliff-dwellings he had seen--all ruins--had left him
with haunting memory of age and solitude and of something past. He had come, in a way, to be
a cliff-dweller himself, and those silent eyes would look down upon him, as if in surprise
that after thousands of years a man had invaded the valley. Venters felt sure that he was the
only white man who had ever walked under the shadow of the wonderful stone bridge, down into
that wonderful valley with its circle of caves and its terraced rings of silver spruce and aspens.

The dog growled below and rushed into the forest. Venters ran down the declivity to enter a
zone of light shade streaked with sunshine. The oak-trees were slender, none more than half
a foot thick, and they grew close together, intermingling their branches. Ring came running
back with a rabbit in his mouth. Venters took the rabbit and, holding the dog near him, stole
softly on. There were fluttering of wings among the branches and quick bird-notes, and rustling
of dead leaves and rapid patterings. Venters crossed well-worn trails marked with fresh tracks;
and when he had stolen on a little farther he saw many birds and running quail, and more rabbits
than he could count. He had not penetrated the forest of oaks for a hundred yards, had not
approached anywhere near the line of willows and cottonwoods which he knew grew along a stream.
But he had seen enough to know that Surprise Valley was the home of many wild creatures.

Venters returned to camp. He skinned the rabbits, and gave the dogs the one they had quarreled
over, and the skin of this he dressed and hung up to dry, feeling that he would like to keep
it. It was a particularly rich, furry pelt with a beautiful white tail. Venters remembered
that but for the bobbing of that white tail catching his eye he would not have espied the rabbit,
and he would never have discovered Surprise Valley. Little incidents of chance like this had
turned him here and there in Deception Pass; and now they had assumed to him the significance
and direction of destiny.

His good fortune in the matter of game at hand brought to his mind the necessity of keeping
it in the valley. Therefore he took the axe and cut bundles of aspens and willows, and packed
them up under the bridge to the narrow outlet of the gorge. Here he began fashioning a fence,
by driving aspens into the ground and lacing them fast with willows. Trip after trip he made
down for more building material, and the afternoon had passed when he finished the work to
his satisfaction. Wildcats might scale the fence, but no coyote could come in to search for
prey, and no rabbits or other small game could escape from the valley.

Upon returning to camp he set about getting his supper at ease, around a fine fire, without
hurry or fear of discovery. After hard work that had definite purpose, this freedom and comfort
gave him peculiar satisfaction. He caught himself often, as he kept busy round the camp-fire,
stopping to glance at the quiet form in the cave, and at the dogs stretched cozily near him,
and then out across the beautiful valley. The present was not yet real to him.

While he ate, the sun set beyond a dip in the rim of the curved wall. As the morning sun burst
wondrously through a grand arch into this valley, in a golden, slanting shaft, so the evening
sun, at the moment of setting, shone through a gap of cliffs, sending down a broad red burst
to brighten the oval with a blaze of fire. To Venters both sunrise and sunset were unreal.

A cool wind blew across the oval, waving the tips of oaks, and while the light lasted, fluttering
the aspen leaves into millions of facets of red, and sweeping the graceful spruces. Then with
the wind soon came a shade and a darkening, and suddenly the valley was gray. Night came there
quickly after the sinking of the sun. Venters went softly to look at the girl. She slept, and
her breathing was quiet and slow. He lifted Ring into the cave, with stern whisper for him
to stay there on guard. Then he drew the blanket carefully over her and returned to the camp-fire.

Though exceedingly tired, he was yet loath to yield to lassitude, but this night it was not
from listening, watchful vigilance; it was from a desire to realize his position. The details
of his wild environment seemed the only substance of a strange dream. He saw the darkening
rims, the gray oval turning black, the undulating surface of forest, like a rippling lake,
and the spear-pointed spruces. He heard the flutter of aspen leaves and the soft, continuous
splash of falling water. The melancholy note of a canyon bird broke clear and lonely from the
high cliffs. Venters had no name for this night singer, and he had never seen one, but the
few notes, always pealing out just at darkness, were as familiar to him as the canyon silence.
Then they ceased, and the rustle of leaves and the murmur of water hushed in a growing sound
that Venters fancied was not of earth. Neither had he a name for this, only it was inexpressibly
wild and sweet. The thought came that it might be a moan of the girl in her last outcry of
life, and he felt a tremor shake him. But no! This sound was not human, though it was like
despair. He began to doubt his sensitive perceptions, to believe that he half-dreamed what
he thought he heard. Then the sound swelled with the strengthening of the breeze, and he realized
it was the singing of the wind in the cliffs.

By and by a drowsiness overcame him, and Venters began to nod, half asleep, with his back against
a spruce. Rousing himself and calling Whitie, he went to the cave. The girl lay barely visible
in the dimness. Ring crouched beside her, and the patting of his tail on the stone assured
Venters that the dog was awake and faithful to his duty. Venters sought his own bed of fragrant
boughs; and as he lay back, somehow grateful for the comfort and safety, the night seemed to
steal away from him and he sank softly into intangible space and rest and slumber.

Venters awakened to the sound of melody that he imagined was only the haunting echo of dream
music. He opened his eyes to another surprise of this valley of beautiful surprises. Out of
his cave he saw the exquisitely fine foliage of the silver spruces crossing a round space of
blue morning sky; and in this lacy leafage fluttered a number of gray birds with black and
white stripes and long tails. They were mocking-birds, and they were singing as if they wanted
to burst their throats. Venters listened. One long, silver-tipped branch dropped almost to
his cave, and upon it, within a few yards of him, sat one of the graceful birds. Venters saw
the swelling and quivering of its throat in song. He arose, and when he slid down out of his
cave the birds fluttered and flew farther away.

Venters stepped before the opening of the other cave and looked in. The girl was awake, with
wide eyes and listening look, and she had a hand on Ring's neck.

"Mocking-birds!" she said.

"Yes," replied Venters, "and I believe they like our company."

"Where are we?"

"Never mind now. After a little I'll tell you."

"The birds woke me. When I heard them--and saw the shiny trees--and the blue sky--and then
a blaze of gold dropping down--I wondered--"

She did not complete her fancy, but Venters imagined he understood her meaning. She appeared
to be wandering in mind. Venters felt her face and hands and found them burning with fever.
He went for water, and was glad to find it almost as cold as if flowing from ice. That water
was the only medicine he had, and he put faith in it. She did not want to drink, but he made
her swallow, and then he bathed her face and head and cooled her wrists.

The day began with the heightening of the fever. Venters spent the time reducing her temperature,
cooling her hot cheeks and temples. He kept close watch over her, and at the least indication
of restlessness, that he knew led to tossing and rolling of the body, he held her tightly,
so no violent move could reopen her wounds. Hour after hour she babbled and laughed and cried
and moaned in delirium; but whatever her secret was she did not reveal it. Attended by something
somber for Venters, the day passed. At night in the cool winds the fever abated and she slept.

The second day was a repetition of the first. On the third he seemed to see her wither and
waste away before his eyes. That day he scarcely went from her side for a moment, except to
run for fresh, cool water; and he did not eat. The fever broke on the fourth day and left her
spent and shrunken, a slip of a girl with life only in her eyes. They hung upon Venters with
a mute observance, and he found hope in that.

To rekindle the spark that had nearly flickered out, to nourish the little life and vitality
that remained in her, was Venters's problem. But he had little resource other than the meat
of the rabbits and quail; and from these he made broths and soups as best he could, and fed
her with a spoon. It came to him that the human body, like the human soul, was a strange thing
and capable of recovering from terrible shocks. For almost immediately she showed faint signs
of gathering strength. There was one more waiting day, in which he doubted, and spent long
hours by her side as she slept, and watched the gentle swell of her breast rise and fall in
breathing, and the wind stir the tangled chestnut curls. On the next day he knew that she would
live.

Upon realizing it he abruptly left the cave and sought his accustomed seat against the trunk
of a big spruce, where once more he let his glance stray along the sloping terraces. She would
live, and the somber gloom lifted out of the valley, and he felt relief that was pain. Then
he roused to the call of action, to the many things he needed to do in the way of making camp
fixtures and utensils, to the necessity of hunting food, and the desire to explore the valley.

But he decided to wait a few more days before going far from camp, because he fancied that
the girl rested easier when she could see him near at hand. And on the first day her languor
appeared to leave her in a renewed grip of life. She awoke stronger from each short slumber;
she ate greedily, and she moved about in her bed of boughs; and always, it seemed to Venters,
her eyes followed him. He knew now that her recovery would be rapid. She talked about the dogs,
about the caves, the valley, about how hungry she was, till Venters silenced her, asking her
to put off further talk till another time. She obeyed, but she sat up in her bed, and her eyes
roved to and fro, and always back to him.

Upon the second morning she sat up when he awakened her, and would not permit him to bathe
her face and feed her, which actions she performed for herself. She spoke little, however,
and Venters was quick to catch in her the first intimations of thoughtfulness and curiosity
and appreciation of her situation. He left camp and took Whitie out to hunt for rabbits. Upon
his return he was amazed and somewhat anxiously concerned to see his invalid sitting with her
back to a corner of the cave and her bare feet swinging out. Hurriedly he approached, intending
to advise her to lie down again, to tell her that perhaps she might overtax her strength. The
sun shone upon her, glinting on the little head with its tangle of bright hair and the small,
oval face with its pallor, and dark-blue eyes underlined by dark-blue circles. She looked at
him and he looked at her. In that exchange of glances he imagined each saw the other in some
different guise. It seemed impossible to Venters that this frail girl could be Oldring's Masked
Rider. It flashed over him that he had made a mistake which presently she would explain.

"Help me down," she said.

"But--are you well enough?" he protested. "Wait--a little longer."

"I'm weak--dizzy. But I want to get down."

He lifted her--what a light burden now!--and stood her upright beside him, and supported her
as she essayed to walk with halting steps. She was like a stripling of a boy; the bright, small
head scarcely reached his shoulder. But now, as she clung to his arm, the rider's costume she
wore did not contradict, as it had done at first, his feeling of her femininity. She might
be the famous Masked Rider of the uplands, she might resemble a boy; but her outline, her little
hands and feet, her hair, her big eyes and tremulous lips, and especially a something that
Venters felt as a subtle essence rather than what he saw, proclaimed her sex.

She soon tired. He arranged a comfortable seat for her under the spruce that overspread the
camp-fire.

"Now tell me--everything," she said.

He recounted all that had happened from the time of his discovery of the rustlers in the canyon
up to the present moment.

"You shot me--and now you've saved my life?"

"Yes. After almost killing you I've pulled you through."

"Are you glad?"

"I should say so!"

Her eyes were unusually expressive, and they regarded him steadily; she was unconscious of
that mirroring of her emotions and they shone with gratefulness and interest and wonder and
sadness.

"Tell me--about yourself?" she asked.

He made this a briefer story, telling of his coming to Utah, his various occupations till he
became a rider, and then how the Mormons had practically driven him out of Cottonwoods, an outcast.

Then, no longer able to withstand his own burning curiosity, he questioned her in turn.

"Are you Oldring's Masked Rider?"

"Yes," she replied, and dropped her eyes.

"I knew it--I recognized your figure--and mask, for I saw you once. Yet I can't believe it!...
But you never were really that rustler, as we riders knew him? A thief--a marauder--a kidnapper
of women--a murderer of sleeping riders!"

"No! I never stole--or harmed any one--in all my life. I only rode and rode--"

"But why--why?" he burst out. "Why the name? I understand Oldring made you ride. But the black
mask--the mystery--the things laid to your hands--the threats in your infamous name--the night-riding
credited to you--the evil deeds deliberately blamed on you and acknowledged by rustlers--even
Oldring himself! Why? Tell me why?"

"I never knew that," she answered low. Her drooping head straightened, and the large eyes,
larger now and darker, met Venters's with a clear, steadfast gaze in which he read truth. It
verified his own conviction.

"Never knew? That's strange! Are you a Mormon?"

"No."

"Is Oldring a Mormon?"

"No."

"Do you--care for him?"

"Yes. I hate his men--his life--sometimes I almost hate him!"

Venters paused in his rapid-fire questioning, as if to brace him self to ask for a truth that
would be abhorrent for him to confirm, but which he seemed driven to hear.

"What are--what were you to Oldring?"

Like some delicate thing suddenly exposed to blasting heat, the girl wilted; her head dropped,
and into her white, wasted cheeks crept the red of shame.

Venters would have given anything to recall that question. It seemed so different--his thought
when spoken. Yet her shame established in his mind something akin to the respect he had strangely
been hungering to feel for her.

"D--n that question!--forget it!" he cried, in a passion of pain for her and anger at himself.
"But once and for all--tell me--I know it, yet I want to hear you say so--you couldn't help
yourself?"

"Oh no."

"Well, that makes it all right with me," he went on, honestly. "I--I want you to feel that...
you see--we've been thrown together--and--and I want to help you--not hurt you. I thought life
had been cruel to me, but when I think of yours I feel mean and little for my complaining.
Anyway, I was a lonely outcast. And now!... I don't see very clearly what it all means. Only
we are here--together. We've got to stay here, for long, surely till you are well. But you'll
never go back to Oldring. And I'm sure helping you will help me, for I was sick in mind. There's
something now for me to do. And if I can win back your strength--then get you away, out of
this wild country--help you somehow to a happier life--just think how good that'll be for me!"

CHAPTER X. LOVE

During all these waiting days Venters, with the exception of the afternoon when he had built
the gate in the gorge, had scarcely gone out of sight of camp and never out of hearing. His
desire to explore Surprise Valley was keen, and on the morning after his long talk with the
girl he took his rifle and, calling Ring, made a move to start. The girl lay back in a rude
chair of boughs he had put together for her. She had been watching him, and when he picked
up the gun and called the dog Venters thought she gave a nervous start.

"I'm only going to look over the valley," he said.

"Will you be gone long?"

"No," he replied, and started off. The incident set him thinking of his former impression that,
after her recovery from fever, she did not seem at ease unless he was close at hand. It was
fear of being alone, due, he concluded, most likely to her weakened condition. He must not
leave her much alone.

As he strode down the sloping terrace, rabbits scampered before him, and the beautiful valley
quail, as purple in color as the sage on the uplands, ran fleetly along the ground into the
forest. It was pleasant under the trees, in the gold-flecked shade, with the whistle of quail
and twittering of birds everywhere. Soon he had passed the limit of his former excursions and
entered new territory. Here the woods began to show open glades and brooks running down from
the slope, and presently he emerged from shade into the sunshine of a meadow. The shaking of
the high grass told him of the running of animals, what species he could not tell, but from
Ring's manifest desire to have a chase they were evidently some kind wilder than rabbits. Venters
approached the willow and cottonwood belt that he had observed from the height of slope. He
penetrated it to find a considerable stream of water and great half-submerged mounds of brush
and sticks, and all about him were old and new gnawed circles at the base of the cottonwoods.

"Beaver!" he exclaimed. "By all that's lucky! The meadow's full of beaver! How did they ever
get here?"

Beaver had not found a way into the valley by the trail of the cliff-dwellers, of that he was
certain; and he began to have more than curiosity as to the outlet or inlet of the stream.
When he passed some dead water, which he noted was held by a beaver dam, there was a current
in the stream, and it flowed west. Following its course, he soon entered the oak forest again,
and passed through to find himself before massed and jumbled ruins of cliff wall. There were
tangled thickets of wild plum-trees and other thorny growths that made passage extremely laborsome.
He found innumerable tracks of wildcats and foxes. Rustlings in the thick undergrowth told
him of stealthy movements of these animals. At length his further advance appeared futile,
for the reason that the stream disappeared in a split at the base of immense rocks over which
he could not climb. To his relief he concluded that though beaver might work their way up the
narrow chasm where the water rushed, it would be impossible for men to enter the valley there.

This western curve was the only part of the valley where the walls had been split asunder,
and it was a wildly rough and inaccessible corner. Going back a little way, he leaped the stream
and headed toward the southern wall. Once out of the oaks he found again the low terrace of
aspens, and above that the wide, open terrace fringed by silver spruces. This side of the valley
contained the wind or water worn caves. As he pressed on, keeping to the upper terrace, cave
after cave opened out of the cliff; now a large one, now a small one. Then yawned, quite suddenly
and wonderfully above him, the great cavern of the cliff-dwellers. 

The Indians treated with, were a portion of the Cree and Saulteaux Tribes, and under its operations,
about 75,000 square miles of territory were surrendered. This treaty, was the first step towards
bringing the Indians of the Fertile Belt into closer relations with the Government of Canada,
and was a much needed one. In the year 1871, Major Butler was sent into the North-West Territories
by the Government of Canada, to examine into and report, with regard to the state of affairs there.
He reported, to Lieutenant-Governor Archibald, that "law and order are wholly unknown in the
region of the Saskatchewan, in so much, as the country is without any executive organization,
and destitute of any means of enforcing the law." Towards remedying this serious state of affairs,
the Dominion placed the North-West Territories under the rule of
the Lieutenant-Governor and Council of the Territories, the Lieutenant-Governor
of Manitoba, being, ex officio, Governor of the Territories.

This body, composed of representative men, possessed executive functions, and legislative
powers. They entered upon their duties with zeal, and discharged them with efficiency. Amongst
other measures, they passed a prohibitory liquor law, which subsequently was practically adopted
by a Statute of the Dominion. They proposed the establishment of a Mounted Police Force, a
suggestion which was given force to by the Dominion Cabinet, and they recommended, that, treaties
should be made, with the Indians at Forts Qu'Appelle, Carlton and Pitt, recommendations, which,
were all, eventually, carried out.

In the report of the Minister of the Interior, for the year 1875, he states "that it is due to the
Council to record the fact, that the legislation and valuable suggestions, submitted to your
Excellency, from time to time, through their official head, Governor Morris, aided the Government
not a little in the good work of laying the foundations of law and order, in the North-West,
in securing the good will of the Indian tribes, and in establishing the prestige of the Dominion
Government, throughout that vast country."

In pursuance of this mission, these gentlemen left Fort Garry in August,
1874, and journeyed to Lake Qu'Appelle (the calling or echoing lake),
where they met the assembled Indians, in September.

The Commissioners, had an escort of militia, under the command of Lieut.-Col. Osborne Smith, C. M.
G. This force marched to and from Qu'Appelle, acquitted themselves with signal propriety,
and proved of essential service. Their return march was made in excellent time. The distance, three
hundred and fifty miles having been accomplished in sixteen and a
half days.

The Commissioners encountered great difficulties, arising, from the excessive demands of the Indians,
and from the jealousies, existing between the two Nations, Crees and Chippawas, but by perseverance,
firmness and tact, they succeeded in overcoming the obstacles, they had to encounter, and eventually
effected a treaty, whereby the Indian title was extinguished in a tract of country, embracing
75,000 square miles of territory. After long and animated discussions the Indians, asked to be
granted the same terms as were accorded to the Indians of Treaty Number Three, at the North-West
Angle, hereinbefore mentioned. The Commissioners assented to their request and the treaty was
signed accordingly.

On the return, of the Commissioners to Fort Ellice, they met there, the Chippawas of that vicinage,
and made a supplementary treaty with them. These Indians were included in the boundaries of
Treaty Number Two, but had not been treated with, owing to their distance from Manitoba House,
where that treaty was made. In 1875, the Hon. W. J. Christie, and Mr. M. G. Dickieson, then of the
Department of the Interior, and subsequently, Assistant Superintendent of Indian affairs, in
the North-West Territories, were appointed to make the payments of annuities, to the Indians, embraced
in the Treaty Number Four, and obtain the adhesion of other bands, which had not been present at
Qu'Appelle, the previous year. They met, the Indians, at Qu'Appelle (where six Chiefs who had
been absent, accepted the terms of the treaty) and at Fort Pelly and at Shoal River, where
two other Chiefs, with their bands, came into the treaty stipulations. A gratifying feature
connected with the making of this, and the other, North-Western Treaties, has been the readiness,
with which the Indians, who were absent, afterwards accepted the terms which had been settled
for them, by those, who were able to attend. I close these observations, by annexing, the reports
of Lieutenant-Governor Morris, to the Honorable the Secretary of State of Canada, of date 17th
October, 1874, giving, an account, of the making of the treaties at Qu'Appelle and Fort Ellice,
and an extract, from that of Messrs. Christie and Dickieson, dated 7th October, 1875, describing
its further completion, and I also insert, accurate short-hand reports of the proceedings
at Qu'Appelle and Fort Ellice, which, were made, at the time, by Mr. Dickieson, who, was present,
at the treaty, as secretary to the Commissioners.

These will be found to be both interesting and instructive.

GOVERNMENT HOUSE, FORT GARRY, MANITOBA, October 17, 1874.

Sir,-- I have the honor to inform you that in compliance with the request of the Government,
I proceeded to Lake Qu'Appelle in company with the Hon. David Laird,
in order to act with him and W. J. Christie, Esq., as Commissioners
to negotiate a treaty with the tribes of Indians in that region.

Mr. Laird and I left Fort Garry on the 26th of August, and arrived
at Lake Qu'Appelle on the 8th of September, Mr. Christie having gone
in advance of us to Fort Pelly.

We were accompanied on arriving by the escort of militia under the
command of Lieut.-Col. W. Osborne Smith, who had preceded us, but
whom we had overtaken.

The escort took up their encampment at a very desirable situation
on the edge of the lake, the Indians being encamped at some distance.

The Commissioners were kindly provided with apartments by W. J. McLean, Esq., the officer in
charge of the Hudson Bay Company's Post.

After our arrival, the Commissioners caused the Indians to be summoned, to meet them, in a marquee tent
adjoining the encampment of the militia.

The Crees came headed by their principal Chief "Loud Voice," and a
number of Saulteaux followed, without their Chief, Cote.

The Commissioners, having decided that it was desirable that there should be only one speaker on
behalf of the Commissioners, requested me owing to my previous experience
with the Indian tribes and my official position as Lieutenant-Governor
of the North-West Territories, to undertake the duty, which I agreed
to do.

Accordingly, I told the Indians the object of our coming and invited
them to present to us their Chiefs and headmen.

"Loud Voice" stated that they were not yet ready and asked for a
delay till next day, to which we assented.

On the 9th, four Indian soldiers were sent to the Commissioners to
ask for two days delay, but we replied that when they met us in conference
they could prefer any reasonable request, but that we expected them
to meet us as agreed on the previous day, and further that the Saulteaux
had not conducted themselves with proper respect to the Commissioners,
as representatives of the Crown, as their principal Chief Cote had
not met us.

Eventually, both the Crees and the Saulteaux met us, with their Chiefs,
when I addressed them.

They asked time to deliberate and we appointed the 11th at ten o'clock
for the next conference.

The
Crees then left the tent suddenly, under constraint of the Indian
soldiers, who compelled the Chiefs to go.

On the 11th we sent a bugler round to summon the Indians to the appointed conference, but they
did not come.

Instead the Saulteaux sent word that they could not meet us except in their own soldiers tent, distant
about a mile from the militia encampment, but we refused to do so.

The Crees were ready to proceed to the marquee, but were prevented
by the Saulteaux, a section of whom displayed a turbulent disposition
and were numerically the strongest party.

We sent our interpreter Charles Pratt, a Cree Indian, who was educated
at St. John's College here, and who is a catechist of the Church of
England, to tell the Indians that they must meet us as agreed upon.

In consequence, about four o'clock in the afternoon the Crees led
by "Loud Voice," came to the conference but the Saulteaux kept away,
though a number were sent to hear and report.

On behalf of the Commissioners, I then explained to the Crees the
object of our mission and made our proposals for a treaty, but as
they were not ready to reply, we asked them to return to their tents
and meet us next day.

On the 12th the Crees and Saulteaux sent four men from the soldiers
tent or council, which they had organized, to ask that the encampment
of the militia and the conference tents should be removed half way,
towards their encampment.

In consequence, we requested Lieut.-Col. Smith to proceed to the Indian
encampment and ascertain the meaning of this demand authorizing him,
if necessary, to arrange for the pitching of the conference tent nearer
the Indians, if that would give them any satisfaction.

He reported, on his return, that the Indians wished the militia to
encamp with them, and that they objected to meet us anywhere on the
reserve of the Hudson Bay Company, as they said they could not speak
freely there.

He refused to remove the militia camp, as it was a very desirable
place where it had been placed, but with the assent of the Indians
selected a spot adjoining the reserve and at a suitable distance from
the Indian tents, on which the conference tent was to be daily erected,
but to be removed after the conferences closed.

We then summoned the Indians to meet us at one o'clock which they
did at the appointed place.

After
the formal hand shaking, which ceremony they repeat at the beginning and close of every interview
the Commissioners submitted their terms for a treaty, which were
in effect similar to those granted at the North-West Angle, except
that the money present offered was eight dollars per head, instead
of twelve dollars as there.

The Indians declined, however, to talk about these proposals, as they said there was something
in the way. They objected to the reserve having been surveyed for the Hudson Bay Company,
without their first having been consulted, and claimed that the L300, 000 paid to the Company
should be paid to them.

They also objected to the Company's trading in the Territory, except
only at their posts.

The Commissioners refused to comply with their demands, and explained to them how the Company
had become entitled to the reserve in question, and the nature of
the arrangement, that had resulted in the payment by the Government
of Canada of the L300, 000.

The conference adjourned to Monday the 14th, on which day the Commissioners again met them, but
the Cree Chief "Loud Voice" asked for another day to consider the matter, and "Cote" or "Meemay"
the Saulteaux Chief, from Fort Pelly, asked to be treated with, at his own place. They demanded,
that the Company should only be allowed to trade at their own posts, and not to send out traders
into the Territory-- which was of course refused, it being explained to them that all Her Majesty's
subjects had equal right of trading. The Commissioners then agreed to grant a final delay of
another day, for further consideration. Up to this period the position
was very unsatisfactory.

The
Crees were from the first ready to treat, as were the Saulteaux from Fort Pelly, but the Saulteaux
of the Qu'Appelle District were not disposed to do so and attempted
to coerce the other Indians.

They
kept the Chiefs "Loud Voice" and "Cote" under close surveillance, they being either confined
to their tents or else watched by "soldiers," and threatened if they
should make any overtures to us.

The Saulteaux cut down the tent over the head of one of the Cree Chiefs
and conducted themselves in such a manner, that "Loud Voice" applied
to the Commissioners for protection, and the Crees purchased knives
and armed themselves.

The Saulteaux, one day went the length of placing six "soldiers," armed with rifles and revolvers,
in the conference tent to intimidate the other Indians, a step which was promptly counteracted
by Lieut.-Col. Smith, calling in six of the militiamen who were stationed in the tent. In this
connection, I must take the opportunity of stating that the results proved the wisdom of the
course taken by the Commissioners in obtaining the escort of the militia, as their presence exerted
great moral influence, and I am persuaded, prevented the jealousies and ancient feud between
the Crees and Saulteaux culminating in acts of violence.

The conduct of the whole force was excellent and, whether on the march or in the encampment
ground, they conducted themselves in a most creditable manner.

Resuming, however, my narrative, on the 15th of September, the Commissioners again met the Indians
at eleven o'clock in the forenoon.

The Crees had, in the interval, decided to treat with us independently, and the Saulteaux, finding
this, came to a similar conclusion. After a protracted interview, the Indians asked to be granted
the same terms as were given at the North-West Angle. The Commissioners took time to consider
and adjourned the conference until three o'clock.

In the interval, the Commissioners, being persuaded that a treaty could not otherwise be made,
determined on acceding to the request of the Indians.

The Indians, having again met the Commissioners in the afternoon, presented their Chiefs to them,
when they asked to be informed what the terms granted at the North-West Angle were. These were fully
and carefully explained to them, but after a request that all the Indians owed to the Hudson Bay
Company should be wiped out and a refusal of the Commissioners to entertain their demands, they
then asked that they should be paid fifteen dollars per annum per head, which was refused, and
they were informed that the proposals of the Commissioners were final,
and could not be changed.

The
Chiefs then agreed to accept the terms offered and to sign the treaty, having first asked that
the Half-breeds should be allowed to hunt, and having been assured that the population in the North-West
would be treated fairly and justly, the treaty was signed by the Commissioners and the Chiefs,
having been first fully explained to them by the interpreter.

Arrangements were then made to commence the payment and distribution of the presents the next
day, a duty which was discharged by Mr. Christie and Mr. Dickieson, Private Secretary of the
Hon. Mr. Laird.

I forward you to form an appendix to this despatch, a report marked "A" and "B" extended from
notes taken in short hand, by Mr. Dickieson, of the various conferences and of the utterances
of the Commissioners and the Indians.

It is obvious that such a record will prove valuable, as it enables any misunderstanding on the
part of the Indians, as to what was said at the conference, to be corrected, and it, moreover, will
enable the council better to appreciate the character of the difficulties that have to be
encountered in negotiating with the Indians.

On the 17th I left for Fort Ellice, in company with Mr. Laird, Mr. Christie and Mr. Dickieson
remaining to complete the payments, which were satisfactorily disposed
of.

Before leaving, the Chiefs "Loud Voice" and Cote called on us to tender
their good wishes, and to assure us that they would teach their people
to respect the treaty.

The Commissioners received every assistance in their power from Mr. McDonald of Fort Ellice, in
charge of the Hudson Bay Company District of Swan River, and from Mr. McLean, in charge of
the Qu'Appelle Post,-- I also add, that the Half-breed population were I believe generally desirous
of seeing the treaty concluded and used the influence of their connection with the Indians in
its favor.

I forward in another despatch a copy of an address I received from
the Metis, or Half-breeds, together with my reply thereto.

The treaty was taken charge of by the Hon. Mr. Laird, and will be by him placed on record in
his Department and submitted to council for approval.

I enclose herewith, however, a printed copy of it, marked "C," to
accompany this despatch.

The supplementary treaty made at Fort Ellice will form the subject
of another despatch.

Trusting that the efforts of the Commissioners to secure a satisfactory understanding with the
Western Indians will result in benefit to the race, advantage to the Dominion, and meet the
approval of the Privy Council, I have the honor to be, Sir, Your
obedient servant, ALEXANDER MORRIS, Lieut.-Gov. N. W. T. GOVERNMENT
HOUSE, FORT GARRY, MANITOBA, October 17th, 1874.

Sir,-- Referring to my despatch of the 17th inst., (No. 211) I have
the honor to report that Mr. Laird and I arrived at Fort Ellice from
Qu'Appelle Lakes, on Saturday the 19th of September.

On Monday,
we met the band of Saulteaux Indians, who make their headquarters
at Fort Ellice, and who had remained there, instead of going to Qu'Appelle
at our request.

This band have been in the habit of migrating between the region covered by the Second Treaty and
that comprehended in the Fourth, but had not been treated with. We proposed
to them to give their adhesion to the Qu'Appelle Treaty and surrender
their claim to lands, wherever situated, in the North-West Territories,
on being given a reserve and being granted the terms on which the
treaty in question was made.

We explained fully these terms and asked the Indians to present to us their Chief and headmen. As
some of the band were absent, whom the Indians desired to be recognized
as headmen, only the Chief and one headman were presented.

These, on behalf of the Indians accepted the terms and thanked the Queen and the Commissioners
for their care of the Indian people.

A supplement to the treaty was then submitted and fully explained to
them, by our acting interpreter, Joseph Robillard, after which it was signed
by Mr. Laird and myself, and by the Chief and head man. The original
of the supplementary treaty will be submitted for approval by Mr.
Laird, but I annex a printed copy of it, as an appendix to this despatch.

I also annex, notes of the conference with these Indians, extended from the short hand report taken
of the proceedings by Mr. Dickieson, Private Secretary to the Hon. Mr. Laird. In the afternoon, Mr. Christie
and Mr. Dickieson arrived from Lake Qu'Appelle, and shortly afterwards proceeded to make the payments
to the Indians, under the treaty.

It was satisfactory to have this band dealt with, as they asserted
claims in the region covered by the Manitoba Post Treaty, but had
not been represented at the time it was made.

On the 22nd of September the Commissioners left Fort Ellice and arrived
at Fort Garry on the afternoon of the 26th of that month, having
been absent a little over a month.

WINNIPEG, MANITOBA, 7th October, 1875. Sir,-- We have now the honor
to submit, for your information, our final report in connection with
our missions to the Indians included in Treaty No 4.

As former reports have made you fully acquainted with the arrangements
that had been entered into previous to our departure from this place,
any further reference to them is unnecessary.

Having left Winnipeg on the 19th August, we arrived at Fort Ellice
on the 24th, the day appointed for the meeting the Indians of that
place.

The same evening we had an interview with, and fully explained the terms
and conditions of the treaty to some of the Indians who were not present
when the treaty was concluded last year.

Next morning, by appointment, we met all the Indians and explained
to them the object of our mission, and, after considerable discussion,
made arrangements to commence paying the annuities next day.

This, however, was prevented by heavy rains, which continued more or less
to retard our operations on the two following days, the 27th and
28th, but everything was satisfactorily concluded with this band
on the evening of the latter day, and on the following morning we
started for the Qu'Appelle Lakes, accompanied by an escort of fifteen
men of the Mounted Police Force, under the command of Sub-Inspector
McIllree, which had arrived at Fort Ellice on the evening of the 26th,
and reached our destination on the forenoon of the 2nd September.

As you are aware, we had heard before leaving Winnipeg, that the number
of Indians assembled at the Qu'Appelle Lakes would be very large, but
we did not anticipate that so many as we found (nearly five hundred
lodges) would be congregated.

We at once saw that the funds at our disposal to pay the annuities
and gratuities would be inadequate, and availed ourselves of the opportunity
presented by the return of Major Irvine to Winnipeg, to forward a
telegram on the 5th September, requesting a further amount of six
thousand dollars to be placed to our credit; and we may state here,
though out of the order of time, as we found after the first two days
payments that we had still underestimated the number of Indians present,
we transmitted a telegram to Winnipeg by special messenger, on the
9th September, for a further credit of fifteen thousand dollars.

On the 3rd September we met the Indians and explained the object of our mission, and, for the benefit
of those who were absent last year, the terms and conditions of the treaty, and stated that we were
now ready to fulfil so many of the obligations therein contained as the Government were bound to execute
this year. The Indians declined saying anything on this occasion, but wished to meet and confer with
in the following day, as they had something they wished to speak about.
They accordingly met us on the 4th, and made several demands, one of which
was that the annuities be increased to twelve dollars per head. We
replied that the treaty concluded last year was a covenant between them
and the Government, and it was impossible to comply with their demands;
that all we had to do was to carry out the terms of the treaty in so
far as the obligations of the same required. An idea seemed prevalent
among the Indians who were absent last year that no treaty had been
concluded then; that all which had been done at that time was merely
preliminary to the making of the treaty in reality, which they thought
was to be performed this year.

The prevalence of this opinion amongst them operated very prejudicially
to the furthering of our business, and we saw that until this was
done away with it would be impossible to do anything towards accomplishing
the real object of our mission.

After a great deal of talking on their part, and explanation on ours, the meeting adjourned until Monday
morning, as it was necessary that provisions should be issued to
the different bands that evening for the following day. On Monday (the 6th)
we again met the Indians, and as they evidently wished to have another
day's talking to urge the same demands they had made on Saturday, we
assured them all further discussion on the subject was useless; that if they declined
to accept the terms of the treaty we must return and report to the Government
that they had broken the promise made last year. They then asked that
we should report to the Government what they had demanded.

This we agreed to do. After some further explanation to those Chiefs who had not signed the treaty, the
payment of the annuities and gratuities was commenced and continued
by Messrs. Dickieson and Forsyth on this and the three following days
until completed, during which time Mr. Christie conferred with the Chiefs
as to the locality of their reserves.

Six Chiefs who had not been present last year when the treaty was concluded, agreed to accept
the terms of the same, and signed their adhesion previous to being paid. The instruments thus
signed by them are transmitted herewith. The suits of clothes, flags, medals and copies of the treaty
were given to the Chiefs and headmen as they were paid, and on the 10th the ammunition and twine
were distributed, also provisions to each band for the return journey to their hunting grounds.******
We have the honor to be, Sir, Your obedient servants, W. J. CHRISTIE, Indian Commissioner. M. G. DICKIESON.
It having been noticed that Cote, "the Pigeon," a leading Chief of the Saulteaux tribe, had not arrived
but that several of his band were present and claimed that they had been sent to represent him,
His Honor the Lieut.-Governor instructed the (acting) interpreter, William Daniel, to enquire why their
Chief had not come to meet the Commissioners, the white chiefs? The big, silent halls echoed with childish laughter. In
the shady court, where Jane spent many of the hot July days, Fay's tiny feet pattered over
the stone flags and splashed in the amber stream. She prattled incessantly. What difference,
Jane thought, a child made in her home! It had never been a real home, she discovered. Even
the tidiness and neatness she had so observed, and upon which she had insisted to her women,
became, in the light of Fay's smile, habits that now lost their importance. Fay littered the
court with Jane's books and papers, and other toys her fancy improvised, and many a strange
craft went floating down the little brook.

And it was owing to Fay's presence that Jane Withersteen came to see more of Lassiter. The
rider had for the most part kept to the sage. He rode for her, but he did not seek her except
on business; and Jane had to acknowledge in pique that her overtures had been made in vain.
Fay, however, captured Lassiter the moment he first laid eyes on her.

Jane was present at the meeting, and there was something about it which dimmed her sight and
softened her toward this foe of her people. The rider had clanked into the court, a tired yet
wary man, always looking for the attack upon him that was inevitable and might come from any
quarter; and he had walked right upon little Fay. The child had been beautiful even in her
rags and amid the surroundings of the hovel in the sage, but now, in a pretty white dress,
with her shining curls brushed and her face clean and rosy, she was lovely. She left her play
and looked up at Lassiter.

If there was not an instinct for all three of them in that meeting, an unreasoning tendency
toward a closer intimacy, then Jane Withersteen believed she had been subject to a queer fancy.
She imagined any child would have feared Lassiter. And Fay Larkin had been a lonely, a solitary
elf of the sage, not at all an ordinary child, and exquisitely shy with strangers. She watched
Lassiter with great, round, grave eyes, but showed no fear. The rider gave Jane a favorable
report of cattle and horses; and as he took the seat to which she invited him, little Fay edged
as much as half an inch nearer. Jane replied to his look of inquiry and told Fay's story. The
rider's gray, earnest gaze troubled her. Then he turned to Fay and smiled in a way that made
Jane doubt her sense of the true relation of things. How could Lassiter smile so at a child
when he had made so many children fatherless? But he did smile, and to the gentleness she had
seen a few times he added something that was infinitely sad and sweet. Jane's intuition told
her that Lassiter had never been a father, but if life ever so blessed him he would be a good
one. Fay, also, must have found that smile singularly winning. For she edged closer and closer,
and then, by way of feminine capitulation, went to Jane, from whose side she bent a beautiful
glance upon the rider.

Lassiter only smiled at her.

Jane watched them, and realized that now was the moment she should seize, if she was ever to
win this man from his hatred. But the step was not easy to take. The more she saw of Lassiter
the more she respected him, and the greater her respect the harder it became to lend herself
to mere coquetry. Yet as she thought of her great motive, of Tull, and of that other whose
name she had schooled herself never to think of in connection with Milly Erne's avenger, she
suddenly found she had no choice. And her creed gave her boldness far beyond the limit to which
vanity would have led her.

"Lassiter, I see so little of you now," she said, and was conscious of heat in her cheeks.

"I've been riding hard," he replied.

"But you can't live in the saddle. You come in sometimes. Won't you come here to see me--oftener?"

"Is that an order?"

"Nonsense! I simply ask you to come to see me when you find time."

"Why?"

The query once heard was not so embarrassing to Jane as she might have imagined. Moreover,
it established in her mind a fact that there existed actually other than selfish reasons for
her wanting to see him. And as she had been bold, so she determined to be both honest and brave.

"I've reasons--only one of which I need mention," she answered. "If it's possible I want to
change you toward my people. And on the moment I can conceive of little I wouldn't do to gain
that end."

How much better and freer Jane felt after that confession! She meant to show him that there
was one Mormon who could play a game or wage a fight in the open.

"I reckon," said Lassiter, and he laughed.

It was the best in her, if the most irritating, that Lassiter always aroused.

"Will you come?" She looked into his eyes, and for the life of her could not quite subdue an
imperiousness that rose with her spirit. "I never asked so much of any man--except Bern Venters."

"'Pears to me that you'd run no risk, or Venters, either. But mebbe that doesn't hold good for me."

"You mean it wouldn't be safe for you to be often here? You look for ambush in the cottonwoods?"

"Not that so much."

At this juncture little Fay sidled over to Lassiter.

"Has oo a little dirl?" she inquired.

"No, lassie," replied the rider.

Whatever Fay seemed to be searching for in Lassiter's sun-reddened face and quiet eyes she
evidently found. "Oo tan tom to see me," she added, and with that, shyness gave place to friendly
curiosity. First his sombrero with its leather band and silver ornaments commanded her attention;
next his quirt, and then the clinking, silver spurs. These held her for some time, but presently,
true to childish fickleness, she left off playing with them to look for something else. She
laughed in glee as she ran her little hands down the slippery, shiny surface of Lassiter's
leather chaps. Soon she discovered one of the hanging gun--sheaths, and she dragged it up and
began tugging at the huge black handle of the gun. Jane Withersteen repressed an exclamation.
What significance there was to her in the little girl's efforts to dislodge that heavy weapon!
Jane Withersteen saw Fay's play and her beauty and her love as most powerful allies to her
own woman's part in a game that suddenly had acquired a strange zest and a hint of danger.
And as for the rider, he appeared to have forgotten Jane in the wonder of this lovely child
playing about him. At first he was much the shyer of the two. Gradually her confidence overcame
his backwardness, and he had the temerity to stroke her golden curls with a great hand. Fay
rewarded his boldness with a smile, and when he had gone to the extreme of closing that great
hand over her little brown one, she said, simply, "I like oo!"

Sight of his face then made Jane oblivious for the time to his character as a hater of Mormons.
Out of the mother longing that swelled her breast she divined the child hunger in Lassiter.

He returned the next day, and the next; and upon the following he came both at morning and
at night. Upon the evening of this fourth day Jane seemed to feel the breaking of a brooding
struggle in Lassiter. During all these visits he had scarcely a word to say, though he watched
her and played absent-mindedly with Fay. Jane had contented herself with silence. Soon little
Fay substituted for the expression of regard, "I like oo," a warmer and more generous one,
"I love oo."

Thereafter Lassiter came oftener to see Jane and her little protegee. Daily he grew more gentle
and kind, and gradually developed a quaintly merry mood. In the morning he lifted Fay upon
his horse and let her ride as he walked beside her to the edge of the sage. In the evening
he played with the child at an infinite variety of games she invented, and then, oftener than
not, he accepted Jane's invitation to supper. No other visitor came to Withersteen House during
those days. So that in spite of watchfulness he never forgot, Lassiter began to show he felt
at home there. After the meal they walked into the grove of cottonwoods or up by the lakes,
and little Fay held Lassiter's hand as much as she held Jane's. Thus a strange relationship
was established, and Jane liked it. At twilight they always returned to the house, where Fay
kissed them and went in to her mother. Lassiter and Jane were left alone.

Then, if there were anything that a good woman could do to win a man and still preserve her
self-respect, it was something which escaped the natural subtlety of a woman determined to
allure. Jane's vanity, that after all was not great, was soon satisfied with Lassiter's silent
admiration. And her honest desire to lead him from his dark, blood-stained path would never
have blinded her to what she owed herself. But the driving passion of her religion, and its
call to save Mormons' lives, one life in particular, bore Jane Withersteen close to an infringement
of her womanhood. In the beginning she had reasoned that her appeal to Lassiter must be through
the senses. With whatever means she possessed in the way of adornment she enhanced her beauty.
And she stooped to artifices that she knew were unworthy of her, but which she deliberately
chose to employ. She made of herself a girl in every variable mood wherein a girl might be
desirable. In those moods she was not above the methods of an inexperienced though natural
flirt. She kept close to him whenever opportunity afforded; and she was forever playfully,
yet passionately underneath the surface, fighting him for possession of the great black guns.
These he would never yield to her. And so in that manner their hands were often and long in
contact. The more of simplicity that she sensed in him the greater the advantage she took.

She had a trick of changing--and it was not altogether voluntary--from this gay, thoughtless,
girlish coquettishness to the silence and the brooding, burning mystery of a woman's mood.
The strength and passion and fire of her were in her eyes, and she so used them that Lassiter
had to see this depth in her, this haunting promise more fitted to her years than to the flaunting
guise of a wilful girl.

The July days flew by. Jane reasoned that if it were possible for her to be happy during such
a time, then she was happy. Little Fay completely filled a long aching void in her heart. In
fettering the hands of this Lassiter she was accomplishing the greatest good of her life, and
to do good even in a small way rendered happiness to Jane Withersteen. She had attended the
regular Sunday services of her church; otherwise she had not gone to the village for weeks.
It was unusual that none of her churchmen or friends had called upon her of late; but it was
neglect for which she was glad. Judkins and his boy riders had experienced no difficulty in
driving the white herd. So these warm July days were free of worry, and soon Jane hoped she
had passed the crisis; and for her to hope was presently to trust, and then to believe. She
thought often of Venters, but in a dreamy, abstract way. She spent hours teaching and playing
with little Fay. And the activity of her mind centered around Lassiter. The direction she had
given her will seemed to blunt any branching off of thought from that straight line. The mood
came to obsess her.

In the end, when her awakening came, she learned that she had builded better than she knew.
Lassiter, though kinder and gentler than ever, had parted with his quaint humor and his coldness
and his tranquillity to become a restless and unhappy man. Whatever the power of his deadly
intent toward Mormons, that passion now had a rival, the one equally burning and consuming.
Jane Withersteen had one moment of exultation before the dawn of a strange uneasiness. What
if she had made of herself a lure, at tremendous cost to him and to her, and all in vain!

That night in the moonlit grove she summoned all her courage and, turning suddenly in the path,
she faced Lassiter and leaned close to him, so that she touched him and her eyes looked up to his.

"Lassiter!... Will you do anything for me?"

In the moonlight she saw his dark, worn face change, and by that change she seemed to feel
him immovable as a wall of stone.

Jane slipped her hands down to the swinging gun-sheaths, and when she had locked her fingers
around the huge, cold handles of the guns, she trembled as with a chilling ripple over all
her body.

"May I take your guns?"

"Why?" he asked, and for the first time to her his voice carried a harsh note. Jane felt his
hard, strong hands close round her wrists. It was not wholly with intent that she leaned toward
him, for the look of his eyes and the feel of his hands made her weak.

"It's no trifle--no woman's whim--it's deep--as my heart. Let me take them?"

"Why?"

"I want to keep you from killing more men--Mormons. You must let me save you from more wickedness--more
wanton bloodshed--" Then the truth forced itself falteringly from her lips. "You must--let--help
me to keep my vow to Milly Erne. I swore to her--as she lay dying--that if ever any one came
here to avenge her--I swore I would stay his hand. Perhaps I--I alone can save the--the man
who--who--Oh, Lassiter!... I feel that I can't change you--then soon you'll be out to kill--and
you'll kill by instinct--and among the Mormons you kill will be the one--who... Lassiter, if
you care a little for me--let me--for my sake--let me take your guns!"

As if her hands had been those of a child, he unclasped their clinging grip from the handles
of his guns, and, pushing her away, he turned his gray face to her in one look of terrible
realization and then strode off into the shadows of the cottonwoods.

When the first shock of her futile appeal to Lassiter had passed, Jane took his cold, silent
condemnation and abrupt departure not so much as a refusal to her entreaty as a hurt and stunned
bitterness for her attempt at his betrayal. Upon further thought and slow consideration of
Lassiter's past actions, she believed he would return and forgive her. The man could not be
hard to a woman, and she doubted that he could stay away from her. But at the point where she
had hoped to find him vulnerable she now began to fear he was proof against all persuasion.
The iron and stone quality that she had early suspected in him had actually cropped out as
an impregnable barrier. Nevertheless, if Lassiter remained in Cottonwoods she would never give
up her hope and desire to change him. She would change him if she had to sacrifice everything
dear to her except hope of heaven. Passionately devoted as she was to her religion, she had
yet refused to marry a Mormon. But a situation had developed wherein self paled in the great
white light of religious duty of the highest order. That was the leading motive, the divinely
spiritual one; but there were other motives, which, like tentacles, aided in drawing her will
to the acceptance of a possible abnegation. And through the watches of that sleepless night
Jane Withersteen, in fear and sorrow and doubt, came finally to believe that if she must throw
herself into Lassiter's arms to make him abide by "Thou shalt not kill!" she would yet do well.

In the morning she expected Lassiter at the usual hour, but she was not able to go at once
to the court, so she sent little Fay. Mrs. Larkin was ill and required attention. It appeared
that the mother, from the time of her arrival at Withersteen House, had relaxed and was slowly
losing her hold on life. Jane had believed that absence of worry and responsibility coupled
with good nursing and comfort would mend Mrs. Larkin's broken health. Such, however, was not
the case.

When Jane did get out to the court, Fay was there alone, and at the moment embarking on a dubious
voyage down the stone-lined amber stream upon a craft of two brooms and a pillow. Fay was as
delightfully wet as she could possibly wish to get.

Clatter of hoofs distracted Fay and interrupted the scolding she was gleefully receiving from
Jane. The sound was not the light-spirited trot that Bells made when Lassiter rode him into
the outer court. This was slower and heavier, and Jane did not recognize in it any of her other
horses. The appearance of Bishop Dyer startled Jane. He dismounted with his rapid, jerky motion
flung the bridle, and, as he turned toward the inner court and stalked up on the stone flags,
his boots rang. In his authoritative front, and in the red anger unmistakably flaming in his
face, he reminded Jane of her father.

"Is that the Larkin pauper?" he asked, bruskly, without any greeting to Jane.

"It's Mrs. Larkin's little girl," replied Jane, slowly.

"I hear you intend to raise the child?"

"Yes."

"Of course you mean to give her Mormon bringing-up?"

"No."

His questions had been swift. She was amazed at a feeling that some one else was replying for her.

"I've come to say a few things to you." He stopped to measure her with stern, speculative eye.

Jane Withersteen loved this man. From earliest childhood she had been taught to revere and
love bishops of her church. And for ten years Bishop Dyer had been the closest friend and counselor
of her father, and for the greater part of that period her own friend and Scriptural teacher.
Her interpretation of her creed and her religious activity in fidelity to it, her acceptance
of mysterious and holy Mormon truths, were all invested in this Bishop. Bishop Dyer as an entity
was next to God. He was God's mouthpiece to the little Mormon community at Cottonwoods. God
revealed himself in secret to this mortal.

And Jane Withersteen suddenly suffered a paralyzing affront to her consciousness of reverence
by some strange, irresistible twist of thought wherein she saw this Bishop as a man. And the
train of thought hurdled the rising, crying protests of that other self whose poise she had
lost. It was not her Bishop who eyed her in curious measurement. It was a man who tramped into
her presence without removing his hat, who had no greeting for her, who had no semblance of
courtesy. In looks, as in action, he made her think of a bull stamping cross-grained into a
corral. She had heard of Bishop Dyer forgetting the minister in the fury of a common man, and
now she was to feel it. The glance by which she measured him in turn momentarily veiled the
divine in the ordinary. He looked a rancher; he was booted, spurred, and covered with dust;
he carried a gun at his hip, and she remembered that he had been known to use it. But during
the long moment while he watched her there was nothing commonplace in the slow-gathering might
of his wrath.

"Brother Tull has talked to me," he began. "It was your father's wish that you marry Tull,
and my order. You refused him?"

"Yes."

"You would not give up your friendship with that tramp Venters?"

"No."

"But you'll do as I order!" he thundered. "Why, Jane Withersteen, you are in danger of becoming
a heretic! You can thank your Gentile friends for that. You face the damning of your soul to
perdition."

In the flux and reflux of the whirling torture of Jane's mind, that new, daring spirit of hers
vanished in the old habitual order of her life. She was a Mormon, and the Bishop regained ascendance.

"It's well I got you in time, Jane Withersteen. What would your father have said to these goings-on
of yours? He would have put you in a stone cage on bread and water. He would have taught you
something about Mormonism. Remember, you're a born Mormon. There have been Mormons who turned
heretic--damn their souls!--but no born Mormon ever left us yet. Ah, I see your shame. Your
faith is not shaken. You are only a wild girl." The Bishop's tone softened. "Well, it's enough
that I got to you in time.... Now tell me about this Lassiter. I hear strange things."

"What do you wish to know?" queried Jane.

"About this man. You hired him?"

"Yes, he's riding for me. When my riders left me I had to have any one I could get."

"Is it true what I hear--that he's a gun-man, a Mormon-hater, steeped in blood?"

"True--terribly true, I fear."

"But what's he doing here in Cottonwoods? This place isn't notorious enough for such a man.
Sterling and the villages north, where there's universal gun-packing and fights every day--where
there are more men like him, it seems to me they would attract him most. We're only a wild,
lonely border settlement. It's only recently that the rustlers have made killings here. Nor
have there been saloons till lately, nor the drifting in of outcasts. Has not this gun-man
some special mission here?"

Jane maintained silence.

"Tell me," ordered Bishop Dyer, sharply.

"Yes," she replied.

"Do you know what it is?"

"Yes."

"Tell me that."

"Bishop Dyer, I don't want to tell."

He waved his hand in an imperative gesture of command. The red once more leaped to his face,
and in his steel-blue eyes glinted a pin-point of curiosity.

"That first day," whispered Jane, "Lassiter said he came here to find--Milly Erne's grave!"

With downcast eyes Jane watched the swift flow of the amber water. She saw it and tried to
think of it, of the stones, of the ferns; but, like her body, her mind was in a leaden vise.
Only the Bishop's voice could release her. Seemingly there was silence of longer duration than
all her former life.

"For what--else?" When Bishop Dyer's voice did cleave the silence it was high, curiously shrill,
and on the point of breaking. It released Jane's tongue, but she could not lift her eyes.

"To kill the man who persuaded Milly Erne to abandon her home and her husband--and her God!"

With wonderful distinctness Jane Withersteen heard her own clear voice. She heard the water
murmur at her feet and flow on to the sea; she heard the rushing of all the waters in the world.
They filled her ears with low, unreal murmurings--these sounds that deadened her brain and
yet could not break the long and terrible silence. Then, from somewhere--from an immeasurable
distance--came a slow, guarded, clinking, clanking step. Into her it shot electrifying life.
It released the weight upon her numbed eyelids. Lifting her eyes she saw--ashen, shaken, stricken--not
the Bishop but the man! And beyond him, from round the corner came that soft, silvery step.
A long black boot with a gleaming spur swept into sight--and then Lassiter! Bishop Dyer did
not see, did not hear: he stared at Jane in the throes of sudden revelation.

"Ah, I understand!" he cried, in hoarse accents. "That's why you made love to this Lassiter--to
bind his hands!"

It was Jane's gaze riveted upon the rider that made Bishop Dyer turn. Then clear sight failed
her. Dizzily, in a blur, she saw the Bishop's hand jerk to his hip. She saw gleam of blue and
spout of red. In her ears burst a thundering report. The court floated in darkening circles
around her, and she fell into utter blackness.

The darkness lightened, turned to slow-drifting haze, and lifted. Through a thin film of blue
smoke she saw the rough-hewn timbers of the court roof. A cool, damp touch moved across her
brow. She smelled powder, and it was that which galvanized her suspended thought. She moved,
to see that she lay prone upon the stone flags with her head on Lassiter's knee, and he was
bathing her brow with water from the stream. The same swift glance, shifting low, brought into
range of her sight a smoking gun and splashes of blood.

"Ah-h!" she moaned, and was drifting, sinking again into darkness, when Lassiter's voice arrested
her.

"It's all right, Jane. It's all right."

"Did--you--kill--him?" she whispered.

"Who? That fat party who was here? No. I didn't kill him."

"Oh!... Lassiter!"

"Say! It was queer for you to faint. I thought you were such a strong woman, not faintish like
that. You're all right now--only some pale. I thought you'd never come to. But I'm awkward
round women folks. I couldn't think of anythin'."

"Lassiter!... the gun there!... the blood!"

"So that's troublin' you. I reckon it needn't. You see it was this way. I come round the house
an' seen that fat party an' heard him talkin' loud. Then he seen me, an' very impolite goes
straight for his gun. He oughtn't have tried to throw a gun on me--whatever his reason was.
For that's meetin' me on my own grounds. I've seen runnin' molasses that was quicker 'n him.
Now I didn't know who he was, visitor or friend or relation of yours, though I seen he was
a Mormon all over, an' I couldn't get serious about shootin'. So I winged him--put a bullet
through his arm as he was pullin' at his gun. An' he dropped the gun there, an' a little blood.
I told him he'd introduced himself sufficient, an' to please move out of my vicinity. An' he went."

Lassiter spoke with slow, cool, soothing voice, in which there was a hint of levity, and his
touch, as he continued to bathe her brow, was gentle and steady. His impassive face, and the
kind gray eyes, further stilled her agitation.

"He drew on you first, and you deliberately shot to cripple him--you wouldn't kill him--you--Lassiter?"

"That's about the size of it."

Jane kissed his hand.

All that was calm and cool about Lassiter instantly vanished.

"Don't do that! I won't stand it! An' I don't care a damn who that fat party was."

He helped Jane to her feet and to a chair. Then with the wet scarf he had used to bathe her
face he wiped the blood from the stone flags and, picking up the gun, he threw it upon a couch.
With that he began to pace the court, and his silver spurs jangled musically, and the great
gun-sheaths softly brushed against his leather chaps.

"So--it's true--what I heard him say?" Lassiter asked, presently halting before her. "You made
love to me--to bind my hands?"

"Yes," confessed Jane. It took all her woman's courage to meet the gray storm of his glance.

"All these days that you've been so friendly an' like a pardner--all these evenin's that have
been so bewilderin' to me--your beauty--an'--an' the way you looked an' came close to me--they
were woman's tricks to bind my hands?"

"Yes."

"An' your sweetness that seemed so natural, an' your throwin' little Fay an' me so much together--to
make me love the child--all that was for the same reason?"

"Yes."

Lassiter flung his arms--a strange gesture for him.

"Mebbe it wasn't much in your Mormon thinkin', for you to play that game. But to ring the child
in--that was hellish!"

Jane's passionate, unheeding zeal began to loom darkly.

"Lassiter, whatever my intention in the beginning, Fay loves you dearly--and I--I've grown
to--to like you."

"That's powerful kind of you, now," he said. Sarcasm and scorn made his voice that of a stranger.
"An' you sit there an' look me straight in the eyes! You're a wonderful strange woman, Jane
Withersteen."

"I'm not ashamed, Lassiter. I told you I'd try to change you."

"Would you mind tellin' me just what you tried?"

"I tried to make you see beauty in me and be softened by it. I wanted you to care for me so
that I could influence you. It wasn't easy. At first you were stone-blind. Then I hoped you'd
love little Fay, and through that come to feel the horror of making children fatherless."

"Jane Withersteen, either you're a fool or noble beyond my understandin'. Mebbe you're both.
I know you're blind. What you meant is one thing--what you did was to make me love you."

"Lassiter!"

"I reckon I'm a human bein', though I never loved any one but my sister, Milly Erne. That was
long--"

"Oh, are you Milly's brother?"

"Yes, I was, an' I loved her. There never was any one but her in my life till now. Didn't I
tell you that long ago I back-trailed myself from women? I was a Texas ranger till--till Milly
left home, an' then I became somethin' else--Lassiter! For years I've been a lonely man set
on one thing. I came here an' met you. An' now I'm not the man I was. The change was gradual,
an' I took no notice of it. I understand now that never-satisfied longin' to see you, listen
to you, watch you, feel you near me. It's plain now why you were never out of my thoughts.
I've had no thoughts but of you. I've lived an' breathed for you. An' now when I know what
it means--what you've done--I'm burnin' up with hell's fire!"

"Oh, Lassiter--no--no--you don't love me that way!" Jane cased.

"If that's what love is, then I do."

"Forgive me! I didn't mean to make you love me like that. Oh, what a tangle of our lives! You--Milly
Erne's brother! And I--heedless, mad to melt your heart toward Mormons. Lassiter, I may be
wicked but not wicked enough to hate. If I couldn't hate Tull, could I hate you?"

"After all, Jane, mebbe you're only blind--Mormon blind. That only can explain what's close
to selfishness--"

"I'm not selfish. I despise the very word. If I were free--"

"But you're not free. Not free of Mormonism. An' in playin' this game with me you've been unfaithful."

"Un-faithful!" faltered Jane.

"Yes, I said unfaithful. You're faithful to your Bishop an' unfaithful to yourself. You're
false to your womanhood an' true to your religion. But for a savin' innocence you'd have made
yourself low an' vile--betrayin' yourself, betrayin' me--all to bind my hands an' keep me from
snuffin' out Mormon life. It's your damned Mormon blindness."

"Is it vile--is it blind--is it only Mormonism to save human life? No, Lassiter, that's God's
law, divine, universal for all Christians."

"The blindness I mean is blindness that keeps you from seein' the truth. I've known many good
Mormons. But some are blacker than hell. You won't see that even when you know it. Else, why
all this blind passion to save the life of that--that...."

Jane shut out the light, and the hands she held over her eyes trembled and quivered against
her face.

"Blind--yes, en' let me make it clear en' simple to you," Lassiter went on, his voice losing
its tone of anger. "Take, for instance, that idea of yours last night when you wanted my guns.
It was good an' beautiful, an' showed your heart--but--why, Jane, it was crazy. Mind I'm assumin'
that life to me is as sweet as to any other man. An' to preserve that life is each man's first
an' closest thought. Where would any man be on this border without guns? Where, especially,
would Lassiter be? Well, I'd be under the sage with thousands of other men now livin' an' sure
better men than me. Gun-packin' in the West since the Civil War has growed into a kind of moral
law. An' out here on this border it's the difference between a man an' somethin' not a man.
Look what your takin' Venters's guns from him all but made him! Why, your churchmen carry guns.
Tull has killed a man an' drawed on others. Your Bishop has shot a half dozen men, an' it wasn't
through prayers of his that they recovered. An' to-day he'd have shot me if he'd been quick
enough on the draw. Could I walk or ride down into Cottonwoods without my guns? This is a wild
time, Jane Withersteen, this year of our Lord eighteen seventy-one."

"No time--for a woman!" exclaimed Jane, brokenly. "Oh, Lassiter, I feel helpless--lost--and
don't know where to turn. If I am blind--then--I need some one--a friend--you, Lassiter--more
than ever!"

"Well, I didn't say nothin' about goin' back on you, did I?"

CHAPTER XII. THE INVISIBLE HAND

Jane received a letter from Bishop Dyer, not in his own handwriting, which stated that the
abrupt termination of their interview had left him in some doubt as to her future conduct.
A slight injury had incapacitated him from seeking another meeting at present, the letter went
on to say, and ended with a request which was virtually a command, that she call upon him at once.

The reading of the letter acquainted Jane Withersteen with the fact that something within her
had all but changed. She sent no reply to Bishop Dyer nor did she go to see him. On Sunday
she remained absent from the service--for the second time in years--and though she did not
actually suffer there was a dead-lock of feelings deep within her, and the waiting for a balance
to fall on either side was almost as bad as suffering. She had a gloomy expectancy of untoward
circumstances, and with it a keen-edged curiosity to watch developments. She had a half-formed
conviction that her future conduct--as related to her churchmen--was beyond her control and
would be governed by their attitude toward her. Something was changing in her, forming, waiting
for decision to make it a real and fixed thing. She had told Lassiter that she felt helpless
and lost in the fateful tangle of their lives; and now she feared that she was approaching
the same chaotic condition of mind in regard to her religion. It appalled her to find that
she questioned phases of that religion. Absolute faith had been her serenity. Though leaving
her faith unshaken, her serenity had been disturbed, and now it was broken by open war between
her and her ministers. That something within her--a whisper--which she had tried in vain to
hush had become a ringing voice, and it called to her to wait. She had transgressed no laws
of God. Her churchmen, however invested with the power and the glory of a wonderful creed,
however they sat in inexorable judgment of her, must now practice toward her the simple, common,
Christian virtue they professed to preach, "Do unto others as you would have others do unto you!"

Jane Withersteen, waiting in darkness of mind, remained faithful still. But it was darkness
that must soon be pierced by light. If her faith were justified, if her churchmen were trying
only to intimidate her, the fact would soon be manifest, as would their failure, and then she
would redouble her zeal toward them and toward what had been the best work of her life--work
for the welfare and happiness of those among whom she lived, Mormon and Gentile alike. If that
secret, intangible power closed its toils round her again, if that great invisible hand moved
here and there and everywhere, slowly paralyzing her with its mystery and its inconceivable
sway over her affairs, then she would know beyond doubt that it was not chance, nor jealousy,
nor intimidation, nor ministerial wrath at her revolt, but a cold and calculating policy thought
out long before she was born, a dark, immutable will of whose empire she and all that was hers
was but an atom.

Then might come her ruin. Then might come her fall into black storm. Yet she would rise again,
and to the light. God would be merciful to a driven woman who had lost her way.

A week passed. Little Fay played and prattled and pulled at Lassiter's big black guns. The
rider came to Withersteen House oftener than ever. Jane saw a change in him, though it did
not relate to his kindness and gentleness. He was quieter and more thoughtful. While playing
with Fay or conversing with Jane he seemed to be possessed of another self that watched with
cool, roving eyes, that listened, listened always as if the murmuring amber stream brought
messages, and the moving leaves whispered something. Lassiter never rode Bells into the court
any more, nor did he come by the lane or the paths. When he appeared it was suddenly and noiselessly
out of the dark shadow of the grove.

"I left Bells out in the sage," he said, one day at the end of that week. "I must carry water
to him."

"Why not let him drink at the trough or here?" asked Jane, quickly.

"I reckon it'll be safer for me to slip through the grove. I've been watched when I rode in
from the sage."

"Watched? By whom?"

"By a man who thought he was well hid. But my eyes are pretty sharp. An', Jane," he went on,
almost in a whisper, "I reckon it'd be a good idea for us to talk low. You're spied on here
by your women."

"Lassiter!" she whispered in turn. "That's hard to believe. My women love me."

"What of that?" he asked. "Of course they love you. But they're Mormon women."

Jane's old, rebellious loyalty clashed with her doubt.

"I won't believe it," she replied, stubbornly.

"Well then, just act natural an' talk natural, an' pretty soon--give them time to hear us--pretend
to go over there to the table, en' then quick-like make a move for the door en' open it."

"I will," said Jane, with heightened color. Lassiter was right; he never made mistakes; he
would not have told her unless he positively knew. Yet Jane was so tenacious of faith that
she had to see with her own eyes, and so constituted that to employ even such small deceit
toward her women made her ashamed, and angry for her shame as well as theirs. Then a singular
thought confronted her that made her hold up this simple ruse--which hurt her, though it was
well justified--against the deceit she had wittingly and eagerly used toward Lassiter. The
difference was staggering in its suggestion of that blindness of which he had accused her.
Fairness and justice and mercy, that she had imagined were anchor-cables to hold fast her soul
to righteousness had not been hers in the strange, biased duty that had so exalted and confounded
her.

Presently Jane began to act her little part, to laugh and play with Fay, to talk of horses
and cattle to Lassiter. Then she made deliberate mention of a book in which she kept records
of all pertaining to her stock, and she walked slowly toward the table, and when near the door
she suddenly whirled and thrust it open. Her sharp action nearly knocked down a woman who had
undoubtedly been listening.

"Hester," said Jane, sternly, "you may go home, and you need not come back."

Jane shut the door and returned to Lassiter. Standing unsteadily, she put her hand on his arm.
She let him see that doubt had gone, and how this stab of disloyalty pained her.

"Spies! My own women!... Oh, miserable!" she cried, with flashing, tearful eyes.

"I hate to tell you," he replied. By that she knew he had long spared her. "It's begun again--that
work in the dark."

"Nay, Lassiter--it never stopped!"

So bitter certainty claimed her at last, and trust fled Withersteen House and fled forever.
The women who owed much to Jane Withersteen changed not in love for her, nor in devotion to
their household work, but they poisoned both by a thousand acts of stealth and cunning and
duplicity. Jane broke out once and caught them in strange, stone-faced, unhesitating falsehood.
Thereafter she broke out no more. She forgave them because they were driven. Poor, fettered,
and sealed Hagars, how she pitied them! What terrible thing bound them and locked their lips,
when they showed neither consciousness of guilt toward their benefactress nor distress at the
slow wearing apart of long-established and dear ties?

"The blindness again!" cried Jane Withersteen. "In my sisters as in me!... O God!"

There came a time when no words passed between Jane and her women. Silently they went about
their household duties, and secretly they went about the underhand work to which they had been
bidden. The gloom of the house and the gloom of its mistress, which darkened even the bright
spirit of little Fay, did not pervade these women. Happiness was not among them, but they were
aloof from gloom. They spied and listened; they received and sent secret messengers; and they
stole Jane's books and records, and finally the papers that were deeds of her possessions.
Through it all they were silent, rapt in a kind of trance. Then one by one, without leave or
explanation or farewell, they left Withersteen House, and never returned.

Coincident with this disappearance Jane's gardeners and workers in the alfalfa fields and stable
men quit her, not even asking for their wages. The oxen and the asses were lying near, and a
strong man, with a grave and benignant face, was leaning on his staff above the manger. A beautiful
young mother lay close beside it, her cheek resting on her hands,
that were clasped over the edge of the rock-hewn crib.

Into this a little straw had been thrown, and over it a purple robe had been cast, whereon
the infant lay. A lamp, set upon a projection of the wall of the cave, burned brightly near.
The great eyes of the wonderful child were wandering about the room;
his hand touched his mother's lips.

I waited to hear him open his mouth and speak.

"There was a moment of silence after we entered the cave.

My father
broke it with his salutation:"'Hail, thou blessed among women!'he
cried.'This child of thine is a Prince and a Savior.'"And then we
all bowed low upon our faces before him and worshipped him with praise
and gladness."

The two aged women, with whom we had spoken, had followed us to the
door of the stable, and, seeing us worshipping there, had run to call
others who were awake in the inn, so that when we arose quite a company
were standing at the door, or just within, gazing upon the King in
his beauty and listening to our thanksgiving with great wonder.

"Then
my father told them all the things that we had heard and seen-- the message of the angel, the song
in the air, the glory of the Lord that had appeared to us-- and how we had quickly come to Bethlehem,
and had found things as the angel had told us. I saw no wonder on her face; the great things
that my father told caused her no astonishment; she listened with
a quiet and solemn joy, like one who was saying in her heart:'I knew
it all before.'"

When my father had finished speaking, we all bowed low again before the young child; and the mother
lifted him in her arms and placed his cheek against her own, smiling graciously
on us, but uttering no word. And we came forth from the stable and
stood again beneath the stars in the courtyard of the inn.

By this time many of the travelers were awake, and an eager company had gathered around us, all
of whom desired to be told of the sign that had been shown to us. To one and another we rehearsed
our story, lingering long to make known the good tidings, until the
morning star appeared and the dawn began to kindle over the eastern
hills.

Then we hastened to our own homes in the city, and told our kindred what had happened unto us.
In the early morning we came back again unto our pastures and our flocks,
rejoicing to stand again in the place where the glory of God had
shone and the music of heaven had filled the air.

"Stephanus paused, his face all aglow with the tale that he had been telling. His eyes swept again
the circuit of the moonlit hills and were lifted reverently up to the sky." Did you ever see the Lord
Christ after that? "asked Joseph." Once only. My father and I were at Jerusalem at the passover.
It was the year before my father died, seventeen years ago; it was the same week on which our
Lord was crucified. My father was then an aged man-- fourscore and five years old. Our tent was
pitched on the slope of the Mount of Olives, near the Bethany road. While we sat there one morning,
a great noise of shouting was heard, and presently we saw one riding on an ass, followed by a great
company, crying'Hosanna!'As we drew nearer, we heard them say that
it was Jesus of Nazareth; and, when we saw His face, we knew that
it was He, by the wonderful eyes, though it was the face of a bearded
man, and not of an infant, and was very pale and sad.

As He drew near to our tent, the city came full into His view, with its gilded roofs and marble pinnacles,
blazing under the morning sun.

Suddenly He paused in the way, and we heard Him weeping aloud, though
we could not hear His words of lamentation.

The multitude halted, too, when we did; and the cheering ceased,
and some of those who stood nearest Him wept also, though no one seemed
to know what had caused His grief.

But soon they went on again, and before they reached the foot of the hill another multitude met
them, coming forth from the city, and we heard their shouts of'Hosanna in the Highest!'as they
entered the gate of Jerusalem. "" What said your father when he saw
all this?

"queried Joseph." He said but little. There was a shadow on his face,
yet he spoke cheerfully.'I cannot understand it,'he murmured.'They are
trying to make Him King of the Jews; but King He will not be, at least
not in their fashion. Yet in some way I know He will be Prince and
Deliverer. I cannot understand, I will wait.'"" Were you not in Jerusalem
when He was put to death? ""

No. My father was frail and ill and we had hastened home to Bethlehem. News of His death on the
cross had only just reached us when another messenger came to tell
us that the sepulcher in which He had been laid was empty; that He
had risen from the dead.

"My father's eyes kindled when he heard this message. He cast aside his
staff and stood firm on his feet.

His voice, when he spoke, rang out like a trumpet.'Blessed be the
Lord God of Israel!'he cried. It is thus that He redeemeth His people.
This Jesus is not to be the Captain of our armies, but the Savior
of our souls.

His kingdom is the kingdom of righteousness, and therefore it is that the prophet hath said:" Of the
increase of His government and peace there shall be no end. "" Always after that, words of the prophet
concerning the Messiah kept coming back to my father; and once and
again he cried out:'Truly, this Jesus was the Son of God, the true
King of Israel!'As the months wore on, his words were more and more
of the crucified and risen Lord, and he dwelt in a great peace.

At length, when the flocks were led forth to the midwinter pasturage,
he begged to go with me.

It was on this very day that we came, the same day of the year on which the Lord was born. He was
feeble and tottered as he walked; but he leaned on my arm and we came slowly. In the evening
he said:'Let me go, my son, and sit once more under the great rock.'I wrapped him in my coat of
skins, and sat here where I sit now and where he was sitting when
the angel came.

We talked here long, under the stars, that night, of Him whom we
had learned to love as Master and Lord, of the works that He had done
and the words that He had spoken, as His disciples had told of them.

We had been silent for a few moments, when I looked up, and saw that his head had fallen backward
against the rock wall. I sprang to him. His eyes were shut, but his
lips were moving. I put my ear to his mouth, and heard him say only:'Peace--
on-- earth-- good will'-- they were his last words.

He had gone beyond our starlight, into the country where the light always shines-- the glory
that fell that night, fifty years ago, upon these hills of Bethlehem.

"Stephanus was silent and Joseph's eyes were full of tears. At length the old man rose." Come,
my son, "he said."

Cesil is in the south; it is midnight; let us call your father and his brother. The old man and
the boy have kept their watch, and it is now time for rest. "[*] Used by permission of the Author.
THE STORY OF CHRISTMAS [*] Nora A. Smith"

A great spiritual efficiency lies in story-telling ".-- Froebel. Christmas Day, you know, dear
children, is Christ's day, Christ's birthday, and I want to tell you why we love it so much, and
why we try to make every one happy when it comes each year. A long,
long time ago-- more than eighteen hundred years-- the baby Christ
was born on Christmas Day; a baby so wonderful and so beautiful, who
grew up to be a man so wise, so good, so patient and sweet that, every
year, the people who know about Him love Him better and better, and
are more and more glad when His birthday comes again.

You see that He must have been very good and wonderful; for people have always remembered His
birthday, and kept it lovingly for eighteen hundred years. He was
born, long years ago, in a land far, far away across the seas.

Before the baby Christ was born, Mary, His mother, had to make a long journey with her husband, Joseph.
They made this journey to be taxed or counted; for in those days this could not be done in the
town where people happened to live, but they must be numbered in the place where they were born. In
that far-off time the only way of traveling was on a horse, or a camel, or a good, patient donkey.
Camels and horses cost a great deal of money, and Mary was very poor; so she rode on a quiet, safe
donkey, while Joseph walked by her side, leading him and leaning on his stick. Mary was very young,
and beautiful, I think, but Joseph was a great deal older than she.

People dress nowadays, in those distant countries, just as they did
so many years ago, so we know that Mary must have worn a long, thick
dress, falling all about her in heavy folds, and that she had a soft
white veil over her head and neck, and across her face.

Mary lived in Nazareth, and the journey they were making was to Bethlehem,
many miles away.

They were a long time traveling, I am sure; for donkeys are slow, though they are so careful,
and Mary must have been very tired before they came to the end of
their journey.

They had traveled all day, and it was almost dark when they came near
to Bethlehem, to the town where the baby Christ was to be born.

There was the place they were to stay,-- a kind of inn, or lodging-house, but not at all like
those you know about. They have them today in that far-off country,
just as they built them so many years ago.

It was a low, flat-roofed, stone building, with no windows and only
one large door.

There were no nicely furnished bed rooms inside, and no soft white
beds for the tired travelers; there were only little places built
into the stones of the wall, something like the berths on steamboats
nowadays, and each traveler brought his own bedding.

No pretty garden was in front of the inn, for the road ran close
to the very door, so that its dust lay upon the doorsill.

All around the house, to a high,
rocky hill at the back, a heavy stone fence was built, so that the
people and the animals inside might be kept safe.

Mary and Joseph could not get very near the inn; for the whole road in front was filled with camels
and donkeys and sheep and cows, while a great many men were going
to and fro, taking care of the animals.

Some of these people had come to Bethlehem to pay their taxes, as Mary and Joseph had done, and
others were staying for the night on their way to Jerusalem, a large city a little further on.
The yard was filled, too, with camels and sheep; and men were lying
on the ground beside them, resting and watching and keeping them safe.
The inn was so full and the yard was so full of people that there
was no room for anybody else, and the keeper had to take Joseph and
Mary through the house and back to the high hill, where they found
another place that was used for a stable.

This had only a door and front, and deep caves were behind, stretching far into the rocks.
This was the spot where Christ was born.

Think how poor a place!-- but Mary was glad to be there, after all;
and when the Christ-child came, He was like other babies, and had
so lately come from heaven that He was happy everywhere.

There were mangers all around the cave, where the cattle and sheep were fed, and great heaps of
hay and straw were lying on the floor.

Then, I think, there were brown-eyed cows and oxen there, and quiet,
woolly sheep, and perhaps even some dogs that had come in to take
care of the sheep.

And there in the cave, by and by, the wonderful baby came, and they wrapped Him up and laid Him
in a manger. All the stars in the sky shone brightly that night, for they knew the Christ-child
was born, and the angels in heaven sang together for joy. The angels
knew about the lovely child, and were glad that He had come to help
the people on earth to be good.

There lay the beautiful baby, with a manger for His bed, and oxen
and sheep all sleeping quietly round Him.

His mother watched Him and loved Him, and by and by many people came to see Him, for they had
heard that a wonderful child was to be born in Bethlehem. All the people
in the inn visited Him, and even the shepherds left their flocks in
the fields and sought the child and His mother.

But the baby was very tiny, and could not talk any more than any other tiny
child, so He lay in His mother's lap, or in the manger, and only
looked at the people.

So after they had seen Him and loved Him, they went away again. After
a time, when the baby had grown larger, Mary took Him back to Nazareth,
and there He lived and grew up.

And He grew to be such a sweet, wise, loving boy, such a tender, helpful
man, and He said so many good and beautiful things, that everyone
who knew Him, loved Him.

Many of the things He said are in the Bible, you know, and a great many beautiful stories of
the things He used to do while He was on earth.

He loved little children like you very much, and often used to take
them up in His arms and talk to them.

And this is the reason we love Christmas Day so much, and try to make everybody happy when it
comes around each year. This is the reason; because Christ, who
was born on Christmas Day, has helped us all to be good so many,
many times, and because He was the best Christmas present the world ever
had! [*] From"

The Story Hour, "by Kate Douglas Wiggins and Nora A. Smith. Used by permission of the authors
and also of the publishers-- Houghton, Mifflin and Company. THE LEGEND OF THE CHRISTMAS TREE
[*] By Lucy Wheelock Two little children were sitting by the fire one
cold winter's night.

All at once they heard a timid knock at the door, and one ran to open
it. There, outside in the cold and the darkness, stood a child with no
shoes upon his feet and clad in thin, ragged garments.

He was shivering with cold, and he asked to come in and warm himself."
Yes, come, "cried both the children;" you shall have our place by
the fire. Come in!

"They drew the little stranger to their warm seat and shared their supper with him, and gave him
their bed, while they slept on a hard bench.

In the night they were awakened by strains of sweet music and, looking
out, they saw a band of children in shining garments approaching the
house. They were playing on golden harps, and the air was full of
melody.

Suddenly the Stranger Child stood before them; no longer cold and ragged,
but clad in silvery light.

His soft voice said:" I was cold and you took Me in.

I was hungry, and you fed Me. I was tired, and you gave Me your bed.
I am the Christ Child, wandering through the world to bring peace
and happiness to all good children.

As you have given to Me, so may this tree every year give rich fruit to you. "So saying, He
broke a branch from the fir tree that grew near the door, and He planted it in the ground and disappeared.
But the branch grew into a great tree, and every year it bore wonderful
golden fruit for the kind children.

[*] From" For the Children's Hour, "by Bailey and Lewis. Used by permission
of the authors and the publishers-- Milton Bradley Company.

LITTLE JEAN [*] A Christmas Story Long ago, and far from here, in a country with a name too hard
to pronounce, there lived a little boy named Jean. In many ways, he was just like the boys here,
for there are many Johns over here, are there not?

Then too, Jean lived with his auntie, and some of our boys do that
too.

His father and mother were dead, and that is true here sometimes, isn't it? But in some ways
things were quite different with Jean. In the first place his auntie was very, very cross, and
she often made him climb up his ladder to his little garret room to go
to sleep on his pallet of straw, without any supper, save a dry crust.

His stockings had holes in the heels, and toes and knees, because his auntie never had time to
mend them, and his shoes would have been worn out all the time if
they had not been such strong wooden shoes-- for in that country the
boys all wore wooden shoes.

Jean did many a little service around the place, for his auntie made
him work for his daily bread, and he chopped the wood and swept the
paths and made the fires and ran the errands, but he never heard anyone
say"

Thank you. "Jean's happiest days were at school, and I wonder if he
was like our boys in that?

There his playmates wore much better clothes and good stockings too, and
warm top coats, but they never thought of making fun of Jean, for
they all loved to play with him.

One morning Jean started off to school (which was next to the big
church), and when he got there he found the children all so happy
and gay and dressed in their best clothes, and he heard one boy say,"
Won't it be jolly tomorrow with the big tree full of oranges and popcorn
and candy, and the candles burning?

"And another added," Won't it be fun to see the things in our shoes in the morning, the goodies
that boys love?

"And another said," My, but we have a big, fat goose at our house, stuffed with plums and just brown
to a turn, "and he smacked his lips as he thought of it. And Jean began to wonder about that beautiful
tree and wish that one would grow at his house. And he thought about his wooden shoes and knew there
would be no goodies in them for him in the morning.

Then he heard one boy say," Don't you love Christmas?

"And Jean said," Christmas! why, what is Christmas?

"But just then the teacher came in and said," Boys, come into the
church now and hear the music.

"And so the boys marched one behind the other just as they do in
school here, and they went into the great church.

Jean thought it was beautiful in there! The soft light, the warm pleasant air, the flowers, and
the marble altar, and then the music!

 There's no single move of yours, except when you're hid in your house,
that ain't seen by sharp eyes. The cottonwood grove's full of creepin', crawlin' men. Like
Indians in the grass. When you rode, which wasn't often lately, the sage was full of sneakin'
men. At night they crawl under your windows into the court, an' I reckon into the house. Jane
Withersteen, you know, never locked a door! This here grove's a hummin' bee-hive of mysterious
happenin's. Jane, it ain't so much that these soles keep out of my way as me keepin' out of
theirs. They're goin' to try to kill me. That's plain. But mebbe I'm as hard to shoot in the
back as in the face. So far I've seen fit to watch only. This all means, Jane, that you're
a marked woman. You can't get away--not now. Mebbe later, when you're broken, you might. But
that's sure doubtful. Jane, you're to lose the cattle that's left--your home en' ranch--en'
amber Spring. You can't even hide a sack of gold! For it couldn't be slipped out of the house,
day or night, an' hid or buried, let alone be rid off with. You may lose all. I'm tellin' you,
Jane, hopin' to prepare you, if the worst does come. I told you once before about that strange
power I've got to feel things."

"Lassiter, what can I do?"

"Nothin', I reckon, except know what's comin' an' wait an' be game. If you'd let me make a
call on Tull, an' a long-deferred call on--"

"Hush!... Hush!" she whispered.

"Well, even that wouldn't help you any in the end."

"What does it mean? Oh, what does it mean? I am my father's daughter--a Mormon, yet I can't
see! I've not failed in religion--in duty. For years I've given with a free and full heart.
When my father died I was rich. If I'm still rich it's because I couldn't find enough ways
to become poor. What am I, what are my possessions to set in motion such intensity of secret
oppression?"

"Jane, the mind behind it all is an empire builder."

"But, Lassiter, I would give freely--all I own to avert this--this wretched thing. If I gave--that
would leave me with faith still. Surely my--my churchmen think of my soul? If I lose my trust
in them--"

"Child, be still!" said Lassiter, with a dark dignity that had in it something of pity. "You
are a woman, fine en' big an' strong, an' your heart matches your size. But in mind you're
a child. I'll say a little more--then I'm done. I'll never mention this again. Among many thousands
of women you're one who has bucked against your churchmen. They tried you out, an' failed of
persuasion, an' finally of threats. You meet now the cold steel of a will as far from Christlike
as the universe is wide. You're to be broken. Your body's to be held, given to some man, made,
if possible, to bring children into the world. But your soul?... What do they care for your soul?"

CHAPTER XIII. SOLITUDE AND STORM

In his hidden valley Venters awakened from sleep, and his ears rang with innumerable melodies
from full-throated mockingbirds, and his eyes opened wide upon the glorious golden shaft of
sunlight shining through the great stone bridge. The circle of cliffs surrounding Surprise
Valley lay shrouded in morning mist, a dim blue low down along the terraces, a creamy, moving
cloud along the ramparts. The oak forest in the center was a plumed and tufted oval of gold.

He saw Bess under the spruces. Upon her complete recovery of strength she always rose with
the dawn. At the moment she was feeding the quail she had tamed. And she had begun to tame
the mocking-birds. They fluttered among the branches overhead and some left off their songs
to flit down and shyly hop near the twittering quail. Little gray and white rabbits crouched
in the grass, now nibbling, now laying long ears flat and watching the dogs.

Venters's swift glance took in the brightening valley, and Bess and her pets, and Ring and
Whitie. It swept over all to return again and rest upon the girl. She had changed. To the dark
trousers and blouse she had added moccasins of her own make, but she no longer resembled a
boy. No eye could have failed to mark the rounded contours of a woman. The change had been
to grace and beauty. A glint of warm gold gleamed from her hair, and a tint of red shone in
the clear dark brown of cheeks. The haunting sweetness of her lips and eyes, that earlier had
been illusive, a promise, had become a living fact. She fitted harmoniously into that wonderful
setting; she was like Surprise Valley--wild and beautiful.

Venters leaped out of his cave to begin the day.

He had postponed his journey to Cottonwoods until after the passing of the summer rains. The
rains were due soon. But until their arrival and the necessity for his trip to the village
he sequestered in a far corner of mind all thought of peril, of his past life, and almost that
of the present. It was enough to live. He did not want to know what lay hidden in the dim and
distant future. Surprise Valley had enchanted him. In this home of the cliff-dwellers there
were peace and quiet and solitude, and another thing, wondrous as the golden morning shaft
of sunlight, that he dared not ponder over long enough to understand.

The solitude he had hated when alone he had now come to love. He was assimilating something
from this valley of gleams and shadows. From this strange girl he was assimilating more.

The day at hand resembled many days gone before. As Venters had no tools with which to build,
or to till the terraces, he remained idle. Beyond the cooking of the simple fare there were
no tasks. And as there were no tasks, there was no system. He and Bess began one thing, to
leave it; to begin another, to leave that; and then do nothing but lie under the spruces and
watch the great cloud-sails majestically move along the ramparts, and dream and dream. The
valley was a golden, sunlit world. It was silent. The sighing wind and the twittering quail
and the singing birds, even the rare and seldom-occurring hollow crack of a sliding weathered
stone, only thickened and deepened that insulated silence.

Venters and Bess had vagrant minds.

"Bess, did I tell you about my horse Wrangle?" inquired Venters.

"A hundred times," she replied.

"Oh, have I? I'd forgotten. I want you to see him. He'll carry us both."

"I'd like to ride him. Can he run?"

"Run? He's a demon. Swiftest horse on the sage! I hope he'll stay in that canyon.

"He'll stay."

They left camp to wander along the terraces, into the aspen ravines, under the gleaming walls.
Ring and Whitie wandered in the fore, often turning, often trotting back, open-mouthed and
solemn-eyed and happy. Venters lifted his gaze to the grand archway over the entrance to the
valley, and Bess lifted hers to follow his, and both were silent. Sometimes the bridge held
their attention for a long time. To-day a soaring eagle attracted them.

"How he sails!" exclaimed Bess. "I wonder where his mate is?"

"She's at the nest. It's on the bridge in a crack near the top. I see her often. She's almost
white."

They wandered on down the terrace, into the shady, sun-flecked forest. A brown bird fluttered
crying from a bush. Bess peeped into the leaves. "Look! A nest and four little birds. They're
not afraid of us. See how they open their mouths. They're hungry."

Rabbits rustled the dead brush and pattered away. The forest was full of a drowsy hum of insects.
Little darts of purple, that were running quail, crossed the glades. And a plaintive, sweet
peeping came from the coverts. Bess's soft step disturbed a sleeping lizard that scampered
away over the leaves. She gave chase and caught it, a slim creature of nameless color but of
exquisite beauty.

"Jewel eyes," she said. "It's like a rabbit--afraid. We won't eat you. There--go."

Murmuring water drew their steps down into a shallow shaded ravine where a brown brook brawled
softly over mossy stones. Multitudes of strange, gray frogs with white spots and black eyes
lined the rocky bank and leaped only at close approach. Then Venters's eye descried a very
thin, very long green snake coiled round a sapling. They drew closer and closer till they could
have touched it. The snake had no fear and watched them with scintillating eyes.

"It's pretty," said Bess. "How tame! I thought snakes always ran."

"No. Even the rabbits didn't run here till the dogs chased them."

On and on they wandered to the wild jumble of massed and broken fragments of cliff at the west
end of the valley. The roar of the disappearing stream dinned in their ears. Into this maze
of rocks they threaded a tortuous way, climbing, descending, halting to gather wild plums and
great lavender lilies, and going on at the will of fancy. Idle and keen perceptions guided
them equally.

"Oh, let us climb there!" cried Bess, pointing upward to a small space of terrace left green
and shady between huge abutments of broken cliff. And they climbed to the nook and rested and
looked out across the valley to the curling column of blue smoke from their campfire. But the
cool shade and the rich grass and the fine view were not what they had climbed for. They could
not have told, although whatever had drawn them was well-satisfying. Light, sure-footed as
a mountain goat, Bess pattered down at Venters's heels; and they went on, calling the dogs,
eyes dreamy and wide, listening to the wind and the bees and the crickets and the birds.

Part of the time Ring and Whitie led the way, then Venters, then Bess; and the direction was
not an object. They left the sun-streaked shade of the oaks, brushed the long grass of the
meadows, entered the green and fragrant swaying willows, to stop, at length, under the huge
old cottonwoods where the beavers were busy.

Here they rested and watched. A dam of brush and logs and mud and stones backed the stream
into a little lake. The round, rough beaver houses projected from the water. Like the rabbits,
the beavers had become shy. Gradually, however, as Venters and Bess knelt low, holding the
dogs, the beavers emerged to swim with logs and gnaw at cottonwoods and pat mud walls with
their paddle-like tails, and, glossy and shiny in the sun, to go on with their strange, persistent
industry. They were the builders. The lake was a mud-hole, and the immediate environment a
scarred and dead region, but it was a wonderful home of wonderful animals.

"Look at that one--he puddles in the mud," said Bess. "And there! See him dive! Hear them gnawing!
I'd think they'd break their teeth. How's it they can stay out of the water and under the water?"

And she laughed.

Then Venters and Bess wandered farther, and, perhaps not all unconsciously this time, wended
their slow steps to the cave of the cliff-dwellers, where she liked best to go.

The tangled thicket and the long slant of dust and little chips of weathered rock and the steep
bench of stone and the worn steps all were arduous work for Bess in the climbing. But she gained
the shelf, gasping, hot of cheek, glad of eye, with her hand in Venters's. Here they rested.
The beautiful valley glittered below with its millions of wind-turned leaves bright-faced in
the sun, and the mighty bridge towered heavenward, crowned with blue sky. Bess, however, never
rested for long. Soon she was exploring, and Venters followed; she dragged forth from corners
and shelves a multitude of crudely fashioned and painted pieces of pottery, and he carried
them. They peeped down into the dark holes of the kivas, and Bess gleefully dropped a stone
and waited for the long-coming hollow sound to rise. They peeped into the little globular houses,
like mud-wasp nests, and wondered if these had been store-places for grain, or baby cribs,
or what; and they crawled into the larger houses and laughed when they bumped their heads on
the low roofs, and they dug in the dust of the floors. And they brought from dust and darkness
armloads of treasure which they carried to the light. Flints and stones and strange curved
sticks and pottery they found; and twisted grass rope that crumbled in their hands, and bits
of whitish stone which crushed to powder at a touch and seemed to vanish in the air.

"That white stuff was bone," said Venters, slowly. "Bones of a cliff-dweller."

"No!" exclaimed Bess.

"Here's another piece. Look!... Whew! dry, powdery smoke! That's bone."

Then it was that Venters's primitive, childlike mood, like a savage's, seeing, yet unthinking,
gave way to the encroachment of civilized thought. The world had not been made for a single
day's play or fancy or idle watching. The world was old. Nowhere could be gotten a better idea
of its age than in this gigantic silent tomb. The gray ashes in Venters's hand had once been
bone of a human being like himself. The pale gloom of the cave had shadowed people long ago.
He saw that Bess had received the same shock--could not in moments such as this escape her
feeling living, thinking destiny.

"Bern, people have lived here," she said, with wide, thoughtful eyes.

"Yes," he replied.

"How long ago?"

"A thousand years and more."

"What were they?"

"Cliff-dwellers. Men who had enemies and made their homes high out of reach."

"They had to fight?"

"Yes."

"They fought for--what?"

"For life. For their homes, food, children, parents--for their women!"

"Has the world changed any in a thousand years?"

"I don't know--perhaps a little."

"Have men?"

"I hope so--I think so."

"Things crowd into my mind," she went on, and the wistful light in her eyes told Venters the
truth of her thoughts. "I've ridden the border of Utah. I've seen people--know how they live--but
they must be few of all who are living. I had my books and I studied them. But all that doesn't
help me any more. I want to go out into the big world and see it. Yet I want to stay here more.
What's to become of us? Are we cliff-dwellers? We're alone here. I'm happy when I don't think.
These--these bones that fly into dust--they make me sick and a little afraid. Did the people
who lived here once have the same feelings as we have? What was the good of their living at
all? They're gone! What's the meaning of it all--of us?"

"Bess, you ask more than I can tell. It's beyond me. Only there was laughter here once--and
now there's silence. There was life--and now there's death. Men cut these little steps, made
these arrow-heads and mealing-stones, plaited the ropes we found, and left their bones to crumble
in our fingers. As far as time is concerned it might all have been yesterday. We're here to-day.
Maybe we're higher in the scale of human beings--in intelligence. But who knows? We can't be
any higher in the things for which life is lived at all."

"What are they?"

"Why--I suppose relationship, friendship--love."

"Love!"

"Yes. Love of man for woman--love of woman for man. That's the nature, the meaning, the best
of life itself."

She said no more. Wistfulness of glance deepened into sadness.

"Come, let us go," said Venters.

Action brightened her. Beside him, holding his hand she slipped down the shelf, ran down the
long, steep slant of sliding stones, out of the cloud of dust, and likewise out of the pale gloom.

"We beat the slide," she cried.

The miniature avalanche cracked and roared, and rattled itself into an inert mass at the base
of the incline. Yellow dust like the gloom of the cave, but not so changeless, drifted away
on the wind; the roar clapped in echo from the cliff, returned, went back, and came again to
die in the hollowness. Down on the sunny terrace there was a different atmosphere. Ring and
Whitie leaped around Bess. Once more she was smiling, gay, and thoughtless, with the dream-mood
in the shadow of her eyes.

"Bess, I haven't seen that since last summer. Look!" said Venters, pointing to the scalloped
edge of rolling purple clouds that peeped over the western wall. "We're in for a storm."

"Oh, I hope not. I'm afraid of storms."

"Are you? Why?"

"Have you ever been down in one of these walled-up pockets in a bad storm?"

"No, now I think of it, I haven't."

"Well, it's terrible. Every summer I get scared to death and hide somewhere in the dark. Storms
up on the sage are bad, but nothing to what they are down here in the canyons. And in this
little valley--why, echoes can rap back and forth so quick they'll split our ears."

"We're perfectly safe here, Bess."

"I know. But that hasn't anything to do with it. The truth is I'm afraid of lightning and thunder,
and thunder-claps hurt my head. If we have a bad storm, will you stay close to me?"

"Yes."

When they got back to camp the afternoon was closing, and it was exceedingly sultry. Not a
breath of air stirred the aspen leaves, and when these did not quiver the air was indeed still.
The dark-purple clouds moved almost imperceptibly out of the west.

"What have we for supper?" asked Bess.

"Rabbit."

"Bern, can't you think of another new way to cook rabbit?" went on Bess, with earnestness.

"What do you think I am--a magician?" retorted Venters.

"I wouldn't dare tell you. But, Bern, do you want me to turn into a rabbit?"

There was a dark-blue, merry flashing of eyes and a parting of lips; then she laughed. In that
moment she was naive and wholesome.

"Rabbit seems to agree with you," replied Venters. "You are well and strong--and growing very
pretty."

Anything in the nature of compliment he had never before said to her, and just now he responded
to a sudden curiosity to see its effect. Bess stared as if she had not heard aright, slowly
blushed, and completely lost her poise in happy confusion.

"I'd better go right away," he continued, "and fetch supplies from Cottonwoods."

A startlingly swift change in the nature of her agitation made him reproach himself for his
abruptness.

"No, no, don't go!" she said. "I didn't mean--that about the rabbit. I--I was only trying to
be--funny. Don't leave me all alone!"

"Bess, I must go sometime."

"Wait then. Wait till after the storms."

The purple cloud-bank darkened the lower edge of the setting sun, crept up and up, obscuring
its fiery red heart, and finally passed over the last ruddy crescent of its upper rim.

The intense dead silence awakened to a long, low, rumbling roll of thunder.

"Oh!" cried Bess, nervously.

"We've had big black clouds before this without rain," said Venters. "But there's no doubt
about that thunder. The storms are coming. I'm glad. Every rider on the sage will hear that
thunder with glad ears."

Venters and Bess finished their simple meal and the few tasks around the camp, then faced the
open terrace, the valley, and the west, to watch and await the approaching storm.

It required keen vision to see any movement whatever in the purple clouds. By infinitesimal
degrees the dark cloud-line merged upward into the golden-red haze of the afterglow of sunset.
A shadow lengthened from under the western wall across the valley. As straight and rigid as
steel rose the delicate spear-pointed silver spruces; the aspen leaves, by nature pendant and
quivering, hung limp and heavy; no slender blade of grass moved. A gentle splashing of water
came from the ravine. Then again from out of the west sounded the low, dull, and rumbling roll
of thunder.

A wave, a ripple of light, a trembling and turning of the aspen leaves, like the approach of
a breeze on the water, crossed the valley from the west; and the lull and the deadly stillness
and the sultry air passed away on a cool wind.

The night bird of the canyon, with clear and melancholy notes announced the twilight. And from
all along the cliffs rose the faint murmur and moan and mourn of the wind singing in the caves.
The bank of clouds now swept hugely out of the western sky. Its front was purple and black,
with gray between, a bulging, mushrooming, vast thing instinct with storm. It had a dark, angry,
threatening aspect. As if all the power of the winds were pushing and piling behind, it rolled
ponderously across the sky. A red flare burned out instantaneously, flashed from the west to
east, and died. Then from the deepest black of the purple cloud burst a boom. It was like the
bowling of a huge boulder along the crags and ramparts, and seemed to roll on and fall into
the valley to bound and bang and boom from cliff to cliff.

"Oh!" cried Bess, with her hands over her ears. "What did I tell you?"

"Why, Bess, be reasonable!" said Venters.

"I'm a coward."

"Not quite that, I hope. It's strange you're afraid. I love a storm."

"I tell you a storm down in these canyons is an awful thing. I know Oldring hated storms. His
men were afraid of them. There was one who went deaf in a bad storm, and never could hear again."

"Maybe I've lots to learn, Bess. I'll lose my guess if this storm isn't bad enough. We're going
to have heavy wind first, then lightning and thunder, then the rain. Let's stay out as long
as we can."

The tips of the cottonwoods and the oaks waved to the east, and the rings of aspens along the
terraces twinkled their myriad of bright faces in fleet and glancing gleam. A low roar rose
from the leaves of the forest, and the spruces swished in the rising wind. It came in gusts,
with light breezes between. As it increased in strength the lulls shortened in length till
there was a strong and steady blow all the time, and violent puffs at intervals, and sudden
whirling currents. The clouds spread over the valley, rolling swiftly and low, and twilight
faded into a sweeping darkness. Then the singing of the wind in the caves drowned the swift
roar of rustling leaves; then the song swelled to a mourning, moaning wail; then with the gathering
power of the wind the wail changed to a shriek. Steadily the wind strengthened and constantly
the strange sound changed.

The last bit of blue sky yielded to the on-sweep of clouds. Like angry surf the pale gleams
of gray, amid the purple of that scudding front, swept beyond the eastern rampart of the valley.
The purple deepened to black. Broad sheets of lightning flared over the western wall. There
were not yet any ropes or zigzag streaks darting down through the gathering darkness. The storm
center was still beyond Surprise Valley.

"Listen!... Listen!" cried Bess, with her lips close to Venters's ear. "You'll hear Oldring's
knell!"

"What's that?"

"Oldring's knell. When the wind blows a gale in the caves it makes what the rustlers call Oldring's
knell. They believe it bodes his death. I think he believes so, too. It's not like any sound
on earth.... It's beginning. Listen!"

The gale swooped down with a hollow unearthly howl. It yelled and pealed and shrilled and shrieked.
It was made up of a thousand piercing cries. It was a rising and a moving sound. Beginning
at the western break of the valley, it rushed along each gigantic cliff, whistling into the
caves and cracks, to mount in power, to bellow a blast through the great stone bridge. Gone,
as into an engulfing roar of surging waters, it seemed to shoot back and begin all over again.

It was only wind, thought Venters. Here sped and shrieked the sculptor that carved out the
wonderful caves in the cliffs. It was only a gale, but as Venters listened, as his ears became
accustomed to the fury and strife, out of it all or through it or above it pealed low and perfectly
clear and persistently uniform a strange sound that had no counterpart in all the sounds of
the elements. It was not of earth or of life. It was the grief and agony of the gale. A knell
of all upon which it blew!

Black night enfolded the valley. Venters could not see his companion, and knew of her presence
only through the tightening hold of her hand on his arm. He felt the dogs huddle closer to
him. Suddenly the dense, black vault overhead split asunder to a blue-white, dazzling streak
of lightning. The whole valley lay vividly clear and luminously bright in his sight. Upreared,
vast and magnificent, the stone bridge glimmered like some grand god of storm in the lightning's
fire. Then all flashed black again--blacker than pitch--a thick, impenetrable coal-blackness.
And there came a ripping, crashing report. Instantly an echo resounded with clapping crash.
The initial report was nothing to the echo. It was a terrible, living, reverberating, detonating
crash. The wall threw the sound across, and could have made no greater roar if it had slipped
in avalanche. From cliff to cliff the echo went in crashing retort and banged in lessening
power, and boomed in thinner volume, and clapped weaker and weaker till a final clap could
not reach across the waiting cliff.

In the pitchy darkness Venters led Bess, and, groping his way, by feel of hand found the entrance
to her cave and lifted her up. On the instant a blinding flash of lightning illumined the cave
and all about him. He saw Bess's face white now with dark, frightened eyes. He saw the dogs
leap up, and he followed suit. The golden glare vanished; all was black; then came the splitting
crack and the infernal din of echoes.

Bess shrank closer to him and closer, found his hands, and pressed them tightly over her ears,
and dropped her face upon his shoulder, and hid her eyes.

Then the storm burst with a succession of ropes and streaks and shafts of lightning, playing
continuously, filling the valley with a broken radiance; and the cracking shots followed each
other swiftly till the echoes blended in one fearful, deafening crash.

Venters looked out upon the beautiful valley--beautiful now as never before--mystic in its
transparent, luminous gloom, weird in the quivering, golden haze of lightning. The dark spruces
were tipped with glimmering lights; the aspens bent low in the winds, as waves in a tempest
at sea; the forest of oaks tossed wildly and shone with gleams of fire. Across the valley the
huge cavern of the cliff-dwellers yawned in the glare, every little black window as clear as
at noonday; but the night and the storm added to their tragedy. Flung arching to the black
clouds, the great stone bridge seemed to bear the brunt of the storm. It caught the full fury
of the rushing wind. It lifted its noble crown to meet the lightnings. Venters thought of the
eagles and their lofty nest in a niche under the arch. A driving pall of rain, black as the
clouds, came sweeping on to obscure the bridge and the gleaming walls and the shining valley.
The lightning played incessantly, streaking down through opaque darkness of rain. The roar
of the wind, with its strange knell and the re-crashing echoes, mingled with the roar of the
flooding rain, and all seemingly were deadened and drowned in a world of sound.

In the dimming pale light Venters looked down upon the girl. She had sunk into his arms, upon
his breast, burying her face. She clung to him. He felt the softness of her, and the warmth,
and the quick heave of her breast. He saw the dark, slender, graceful outline of her form.
A woman lay in his arms! And he held her closer. He who had been alone in the sad, silent watches
of the night was not now and never must be again alone. He who had yearned for the touch of
a hand felt the long tremble and the heart-beat of a woman. By what strange chance had she
come to love him! By what change--by what marvel had she grown into a treasure!

No more did he listen to the rush and roar of the thunder-storm. For with the touch of clinging
hands and the throbbing bosom he grew conscious of an inward storm--the tingling of new chords
of thought, strange music of unheard, joyous bells sad dreams dawning to wakeful delight, dissolving
doubt, resurging hope, force, fire, and freedom, unutterable sweetness of desire. A storm in
his breast--a storm of real love.

CHAPTER XIV. WEST WIND

When the storm abated Venters sought his own cave, and late in the night, as his blood cooled
and the stir and throb and thrill subsided, he fell asleep.

With the breaking of dawn his eyes unclosed. The valley lay drenched and bathed, a burnished
oval of glittering green. The rain-washed walls glistened in the morning light. Waterfalls
of many forms poured over the rims. One, a broad, lacy sheet, thin as smoke, slid over the
western notch and struck a ledge in its downward fall, to bound into broader leap, to burst
far below into white and gold and rosy mist.

Venters prepared for the day, knowing himself a different man.

"It's a glorious morning," said Bess, in greeting.

"Yes. After the storm the west wind," he replied.

"Last night was I--very much of a baby?" she asked, watching him.

"Pretty much."

"Oh, I couldn't help it!"

"I'm glad you were afraid."

"Why?" she asked, in slow surprise.

"I'll tell you some day," he answered, soberly. Then around the camp-fire and through the morning
meal he was silent; afterward he strolled thoughtfully off alone along the terrace. He climbed
a great yellow rock raising its crest among the spruces, and there he sat down to face the
valley and the west.

"I love her!"

Aloud he spoke--unburdened his heart--confessed his secret. For an instant the golden valley
swam before his eyes, and the walls waved, and all about him whirled with tumult within.

"I love her!... I understand now."

Reviving memory of Jane Withersteen and thought of the complications of the present amazed
him with proof of how far he had drifted from his old life. He discovered that he hated to
take up the broken threads, to delve into dark problems and difficulties. In this beautiful
valley he had been living a beautiful dream. Tranquillity had come to him, and the joy of solitude,
and interest in all the wild creatures and crannies of this incomparable valley--and love.
Under the shadow of the great stone bridge God had revealed Himself to Venters.

"The world seems very far away," he muttered, "but it's there--and I'm not yet done with it.
Perhaps I never shall be.... Only--how glorious it would be to live here always and never think
again!"

Whereupon the resurging reality of the present, as if in irony of his wish, steeped him instantly
in contending thought. Out of it all he presently evolved these things: he must go to Cottonwoods;
he must bring supplies back to Surprise Valley; he must cultivate the soil and raise corn and
stock, and, most imperative of all, he must decide the future of the girl who loved him and
whom he loved. The first of these things required tremendous effort, the last one, concerning
Bess, seemed simply and naturally easy of accomplishment. He would marry her. Suddenly, as
from roots of poisonous fire, flamed up the forgotten truth concerning her. It seemed to wither
and shrivel up all his joy on its hot, tearing way to his heart. She had been Oldring's Masked
Rider. To Venters's question, "What were you to Oldring?" she had answered with scarlet shame
and drooping head.

"What do I care who she is or what she was!" he cried, passionately. And he knew it was not
his old self speaking. It was this softer, gentler man who had awakened to new thoughts in
the quiet valley. Tenderness, masterful in him now, matched the absence of joy and blunted
the knife-edge of entering jealousy. Strong and passionate effort of will, surprising to him,
held back the poison from piercing his soul.

"Wait!... Wait!" he cried, as if calling. His hand pressed his breast, and he might have called
to the pang there. "Wait! It's all so strange--so wonderful. Anything can happen. Who am I
to judge her? I'll glory in my love for her. But I can't tell it--can't give up to it."

Certainly he could not then decide her future. Marrying her was impossible in Surprise Valley
and in any village south of Sterling. Even without the mask she had once worn she would easily
have been recognized as Oldring's Rider. No man who had ever seen her would forget her, regardless
of his ignorance as to her sex. Then more poignant than all other argument was the fact that
he did not want to take her away from Surprise Valley. He resisted all thought of that. He
had brought her to the most beautiful and wildest place of the uplands; he had saved her, nursed
her back to strength, watched her bloom as one of the valley lilies; he knew her life there
to be pure and sweet--she belonged to him, and he loved her. Still these were not all the reasons
why he did not want to take her away. Where could they go? He feared the rustlers--he feared
the riders--he feared the Mormons. And if he should ever succeed in getting Bess safely away
from these immediate perils, he feared the sharp eyes of women and their tongues, the big outside
world with its problems of existence. He must wait to decide her future, which, after all,
was deciding his own. But between her future and his something hung impending. Like Balancing
Rock, which waited darkly over the steep gorge, ready to close forever the outlet to Deception
Pass, that nameless thing, as certain yet intangible as fate, must fall and close forever all
doubts and fears of the future.

"I've dreamed," muttered Venters, as he rose. "Well, why not?... To dream is happiness! But
let me just once see this clearly wholly; then I can go on dreaming till the thing falls. I've
got to tell Jane Withersteen. I've dangerous trips to take. I've work here to make comfort
for this girl. She's mine. I'll fight to keep her safe from that old life. I've already seen
her forget it. I love her. And if a beast ever rises in me I'll burn my hand off before I lay
it on her with shameful intent. And, by God! sooner or later I'll kill the man who hid her
and kept her in Deception Pass!"

As he spoke the west wind softly blew in his face. It seemed to soothe his passion. That west
wind was fresh, cool, fragrant, and it carried a sweet, strange burden of far-off things--tidings
of life in other climes, of sunshine asleep on other walls--of other places where reigned peace.
It carried, too, sad truth of human hearts and mystery--of promise and hope unquenchable. Surprise
Valley was only a little niche in the wide world whence blew that burdened wind. Bess was only
one of millions at the mercy of unknown motive in nature and life. Content had come to Venters
in the valley; happiness had breathed in the slow, warm air; love as bright as light had hovered
over the walls and descended to him; and now on the west wind came a whisper of the eternal
triumph of faith over doubt.

"How much better I am for what has come to me!" he exclaimed. "I'll let the future take care
of itself. Whatever falls, I'll be ready."

Venters retraced his steps along the terrace back to camp, and found Bess in the old familiar
seat, waiting and watching for his return.

"I went off by myself to think a little," he explained.

"You never looked that way before. What--what is it? Won't you tell me?"

"Well, Bess, the fact is I've been dreaming a lot. This valley makes a fellow dream. So I forced
myself to think. We can't live this way much longer. Soon I'll simply have to go to Cottonwoods.
We need a whole pack train of supplies. I can get--"

"Can you go safely?" she interrupted.

"Why, I'm sure of it. I'll ride through the Pass at night. I haven't any fear that Wrangle
isn't where I left him. And once on him--Bess, just wait till you see that horse!"

"Oh, I want to see him--to ride him. But--but, Bern, this is what troubles me," she said. "Will--will
you come back?"

"Give me four days. If I'm not back in four days you'll know I'm dead. For that only shall
keep me."

"Oh!"

"Bess, I'll come back. There's danger--I wouldn't lie to you--but I can take care of myself."

"Bern, I'm sure--oh, I'm sure of it! All my life I've watched hunted men. I can tell what's
in them. And I believe you can ride and shoot and see with any rider of the sage. It's not--not
that I--fear."

"Well, what is it, then?"

"Why--why--why should you come back at all?"

"I couldn't leave you here alone."

"You might change your mind when you get to the village--among old friends--"

"I won't change my mind. As for old friends--" He uttered a short, expressive laugh.

"Then--there--there must be a--a woman!" Dark red mantled the clear tan of temple and cheek
and neck. Her eyes were eyes of shame, upheld a long moment by intense, straining search for
the verification of her fear. Suddenly they drooped, her head fell to her knees, her hands
flew to her hot cheeks.

"Bess--look here," said Venters, with a sharpness due to the violence with which he checked
his quick, surging emotion.

As if compelled against her will--answering to an irresistible voice--Bess raised her head,
looked at him with sad, dark eyes, and tried to whisper with tremulous lips.

"There's no woman," went on Venters, deliberately holding her glance with his. "Nothing on
earth, barring the chances of life, can keep me away."

Her face flashed and flushed with the glow of a leaping joy; but like the vanishing of a gleam
it disappeared to leave her as he had never beheld her.

"I am nothing--I am lost--I am nameless!"

"Do you want me to come back?" he asked, with sudden stern coldness. "Maybe you want to go
back to Oldring!"

That brought her erect, trembling and ashy pale, with dark, proud eyes and mute lips refuting
his insinuation.

"Bess, I beg your pardon. I shouldn't have said that. But you angered me. I intend to work--to
make a home for you here--to be a--a brother to you as long as ever you need me. And you must
forget what you are--were--I mean, and be happy. When you remember that old life you are bitter,
and it hurts me."

"I was happy--I shall be very happy. Oh, you're so good that--that it kills me! If I think,
I can't believe it. I grow sick with wondering why. I'm only a let me say it--only a lost,
nameless--girl of the rustlers. Oldring's Girl, they called me. That you should save me--be
so good and kind--want to make me happy--why, it's beyond belief. No wonder I'm wretched at
the thought of your leaving me. But I'll be wretched and bitter no more. I promise you. If
only I could repay you even a little--"

"You've repaid me a hundredfold. Will you believe me?"

"Believe you! I couldn't do else."

"Then listen!... Saving you, I saved myself. Living here in this valley with you, I've found
myself. I've learned to think while I was dreaming. I never troubled myself about God. But
God, or some wonderful spirit, has whispered to me here. I absolutely deny the truth of what
you say about yourself. I can't explain it. There are things too deep to tell. Whatever the
terrible wrongs you've suffered, God holds you blameless. I see that--feel that in you every
moment you are near me. I've a mother and a sister 'way back in Illinois. If I could I'd take
you to them--to-morrow."

"If it were true! Oh, I might--I might lift my head!" she cried.

"Lift it then--you child. For I swear it's true." 

I am glad to see that you are going back into council, and I will only ask you to think of
these things with single hearts desiring only to do what is right and trusting my words. On Monday
morning we will be glad to meet you here and hope we will find then
that your heart has come to ours, that you will see that it is for
your children's good, to take our hands and the promises we have
given.

As I told you before we would be glad to stay longer with you, but we are obliged to go away. We
ask you then to meet us on Monday morning and Mr. Pratt will tell
you so that there may be no mistake as to what we have promised.

He has it written down so that it may not be rubbed out.

"The conference then ended.

FIFTH DAY'S CONFERENCE September 14.

Both nations, Crees and Saulteaux, having assembled, His Honor Lieut.-Governor
Morris again addressed them:--"

Children of our Great Mother, I am glad to see you again after another day. How have you come to meet
us?

I hope you have come to us with good thoughts, and hearts ready to meet ours. I have one or two
words to say to you. It is twenty days to-day since we left the Red River. We want to turn
our faces homewards. You told me on Saturday that some of you could eat a great deal. I have
something to say to you about that. There are Indians who live here, they have their wives and
children around them. It is good for them to be here, and have plenty to eat, but they ought
to think of their brothers; they ought to think that there are men
here who have come from a distance, from Fort Pelly and beyond, whose
wives and children are not here to eat, and they want to be at home
with them.

It is time now that we began to understand each other, and when there is something troubles us, I
believe in telling it. When you told us you were troubled about
the situation of this tent, we had it moved. Now we want you to take
away our trouble, or tell us what you mean.

We are troubled about this. We are servants of the Queen; we have been here many days giving you
our message, and we have not yet heard the voice of the nations. We have two nations here. We
have the Crees, who were here first, and we have the Ojibbeways, who came from our country not many
suns ago. We find them here; we won't say they stole the land and the stones and the trees; no,
but we will say this, that we believe their brothers, the Crees, said to them when they came in
here: "The land is wide, it is wide, it is big enough for us both; let us live here like brothers;"
and that is what you say, as you told us on Saturday, as to the Half-breeds that I see around. You
say that you are one with them; now we want all to be one. We know
no difference between Crees and Ojibbeways. Now we want to ask you are
you wiser, do you know more, than the Ojibbeway people that I met
last year? You are a handful compared with them; they came to me
from the Lake of the Woods, from Rainy Lake, from the Kaministiquia,
and from the Great Lake.

I told them my message, as I have told you; they heard my words and they said they were good, and
they took my hand and I gave them mine and the presents; but that is not all. There was a band of
Ojibbeways who lived at Lake Seul, to the north of the Lake of the Woods, 400 in number, and
just before we came away we sent our messenger to them. He told them I had shaken hands for the Queen
with all the Ojibbeways down to the Great Lake. He told them what we had done for these, and asked
them if they found it good to take the Queen's hand through our messenger; they were pleased;
they signed the treaty; they put their names to it, saying, We take
what you promised to the other Saulteaux; and our messenger gave
them the money, just as our messengers will give your brothers who
are not here the money if we understand each other.

Now, we ask you again, are you wiser than your brothers that I have seen before? I do not think
that you will say you are, but we want you to take away our last trouble.
What I find strange is this: we are Chiefs; we have delivered the
message of our great Queen, whose words never change, whose tongue and
the tongues of whose messengers are never forked; and how is it that
we have not heard any voice back from the Crees or Saulteaux, or from
their Chiefs?

I see before me two Chiefs; we know them to be Chiefs, because we see
you put them before you to shake hands with us.

They must have been made Chiefs, not for anything we are talking
about to-day, not for any presents we are offering to you, not because
of the land; then why are they chiefs?

Because I see they are old men; the winds of many winters have whistled
through their branches. I think they must have learned wisdom; the
words of the old are wise; why then, we ask ourselves-- and this is
our trouble-- Why are your Chiefs dumb? They can speak. One of them
is called "Loud Voice."

He must have been heard in the councils of the nation. Then I ask
myself, why do they not answer?

It cannot be that you are afraid; you are not women. In this country, now, no man need be afraid. If
a white man does wrong to an Indian, the Queen will punish them. The other day at Fort Ellice,
a white man, it is said, stole some furs from an Indian. The Queen's policemen took him at once;
sent him down to Red River, and he is lying in jail now; and if the Indians prove that he did
wrong, he will be punished. You see then that if the white man does wrong to the Indian he will
punished; and it will be the same if the Indian does wrong to the white man. The red and white
man must live together, and be good friends, and the Indians must
live together like brothers with each other and the white man.

I am afraid you are weary of my talking.

Why do I talk so much? Because I have only your good at heart.

I do not want to go away with my head down, to send word to the Queen, "Your red children could not
see that your heart was good towards them; could not see as you see that it was for the good of
themselves and their children's children to accept the good things
you mean for them."

I have done. Let us hear the voice of the people. Let us hear the voice of your old wise men. "COTE--"
The same man that has spoken will speak yet. "KA-KIE-SHE-WAY (Loud Voice)--" This is the one
who will speak; after he speaks I will show what I have to say. "LIEUT.-GOV. MORRIS--" Understand
me, what I want to know is, does he speak for the nations. If you prefer to speak by the voice of
an orator I am glad.

All we want is to hear the voice of the people, and I asked you at first to choose among
yourselves those who would speak for you; therefore I am glad to hear the man you have chosen,
and I am glad to hear that after he has done the Chief will speak
to us. "THE GAMBLER--"

Saturday we met, we spoke to each other, we met at such a time as
this time, and again we said we would tell each other something;
now, then, we will report to each other a little again.

This Company man that we were speaking about, I do not hate him;
as I loved him before I love him still, and I also want that the way
he loved me at first he should love me the same; still, I wish that
the Company would keep at his work the same as he did; that I want
to be signed on the paper.

I want you to put it with your own hands. After he puts that there
it is given to the Indians, then there will be another article to
speak about.

The Indians want the Company to keep at their post and nothing beyond. After that is signed they
will talk about something else. "LIEUT.-GOV. MORRIS--"

I told you on Saturday that I had nothing to do with the Company. The Company have a right to trade.
I cannot make them buy goods and bring them here, or stop them from
bringing them. I dare say some of you are traders; you do not ask
me whether you shall buy goods and sell them again, and I do not
stop you.

It is the same way with the Company. If they make money in bringing goods here they will bring
them just as they used to do; and I want you to understand it fully, the Company may have a little
more money than the white traders, or the Half-breeds, or the Indians,
but they have no more right, they have no more privileges, to trade
than the Indians, or the Half-breeds, or the whites; and that is written
with a higher hand than ours, and we have no power to write anything,
or to add anything, to what is written and remains in the Queen's
house beyond the sea.

"THE GAMBLER--" I do not want to drive the Company anywhere. What
I said is, that they are to remain here at their house. Supposing you
wanted to take them away, I would not let them go. I want them to remain
here to have nothing but the trade. I do not hate them; we always
exchange with them, and would die if they went away.

"LIEUT.-GOV. MORRIS--" I do not know whether we rightly understand or not. I think you have spoken
wise words; the Company helps you to live, and they have a right
to sell goods as other traders.

I do not know that I understand you rightly, that you do not want them to sell goods anywhere except
at the posts; to keep at their posts there.

If that is what you mean, I cannot say yes to that; they have the same right to sell goods anywhere
that you have. They are no longer as they were once. The Government of the country, I think I told
you that before-- understand me distinctly-- the Government have nothing to do with the Company,
but the Company and all their servants are subjects of the Queen and love and obey her laws. The day has
gone past when they made the laws. They have to hear the laws the Queen makes, and like good subjects
submit to them. "THE GAMBLER--" The Company is not to carry anything out into the country, but are to
trade in the Fort. That is what we want signed on the paper; then we
will talk on other subjects. "LIEUT.-GOV. MORRIS--" I have told you before,
and I tell you again, that the Company as traders have the right to sell
goods anywhere they please, just as you have, just as the whites
have, just as the Half-breeds have, and we have no power to take
it away from them.

If the Company were to ask me to say to you that you were not to trade anywhere except in their Fort
by the lake, you would think it very hard, and I would say to the Company, No, you shall not
interfere with the Indians throughout our land. I would like to give you pleasure but I cannot
do wrong; we won't deceive you with smooth words.

We will tell you the simple truth what we can do and what we cannot do, but we cannot interfere
as you ask us. "THE GAMBLER--" Cannot you sign such a paper? "LIEUT.-GOV. MORRIS--" No; the Queen
has signed the great paper, and the Company have no more rights than any one else, but they have
the same. "KA-KIE-SHE-WAY (Loud Voice)--" I would not be at a loss, but I am, because we
are not united-- the Crees and the Saulteaux-- this is troubling me. I am trying to bring all
together in one mind, and this is delaying us.

If we could put that in order, if we were all joined together and everything was right I would
like it, I would like to part well satisfied and pleased. I hear that His Excellency is unwell, and
I wish that everything would be easy in his mind. It is this that annoys me, that things do
not come together. I wish for one day more, and after that there
would not be much in my way.

"COTE--" You wanted me to come here and I came here. I find nothing, and I do not think anything
will go right. I know what you want; I cannot speak of anything here concerning my own land until
I go to my own land. Whenever you desire to see me I will tell you what you are asking me here. Now
I want to return. "LIEUT.-GOV. MORRIS--" We asked the Chief to come here. He has as much right
to be here as another Indian. We cannot go there and ask the people of the two great tribes to
meet in one place as they have done when they were asked to meet us. You have had many days to
talk together. If the Saulteaux are determined that they want an agreement to prevent the Company from trading,
it cannot be given. I think the Chief here spoke wisely. He says he is in trouble because you
do not understand each other. Why are you not of one mind? Have you tried to be of one mind?
Must we go back and say we have had you here so many days, and that
you had not the minds of men-- that you were not able to understand
each other?

Must we go back and tell the Queen that we held out our hands for
her, and her red children put them back again?

If that be the message that your conduct to-day is going to make us
carry back, I am sorry for you, and fear it will be a long day before
you again see the Queen's Councillors here to try to do you good.

The Queen and her Councillors may think that you do not want to be friends, that you do not want
your little ones to be taught, that you do not want when the food
is getting scarce to have a hand in yours stronger than yours to help
you.

Surely you will think again before you turn your backs on the offers; you will not let so little
a question as this about the Company, without whom you tell me you
could not live, stop the good we mean to do.

I hope that I am perfectly understood; when we asked the chief here we wanted to speak with him
about his lands at his place; when we asked "Loud Voice" here we
wanted to speak with him about the land at his place; so when we asked
the other chiefs here we wanted to speak with them about the lands
at their places.

Why? because we did not want to do anything that you would not all
know about, that there might be no bad feelings amongst you.

We wanted you to be of one mind and heart in this matter, and that is the reason you are here
to-day. Now it rests with you; we have done all we could. Have you anything more to say to us, or
are we to turn our backs upon you, and go away with sorry hearts
for you and your children?

It remains for you to say. "THE GAMBLER--" We do not understand you
and what you are talking about.

I do not keep
it from you; we have not chosen our Chiefs; we have not appointed
our soldiers and councillors; we have not looked around us yet, and
chosen our land, which I understand you to tell us to choose.

We do not want to play with you, but we cannot appoint our Chiefs
and head men quickly; that is in the way.

Now it is near mid-day, and we cannot appoint our Chiefs. This Chief
who got up last-- the Queen's name was used when he was appointed
to be Chief-- he wants to know where his land is to be and see it,
what like it is to be, and to find the number of his children; that
is what is in his mind.

He says he came from afar, he had a good mind for coming, and he takes the same good mind away with
him. I have not heard him say to the Saulteaux to keep back their land. "LIEUT.-GOV. MORRIS--"
I think I understand you. We do not want to separate in bad feeling,
or to avoid any trouble in coming to an understanding with you; because
I do not believe that if we do not agree it will ever be my good fortune
to endeavor to do so again.

"Loud Voice," the Chief, has told us he wants a day to think it over.

The Chief "Cote," from the north, would like to go home, but I am sure he will stop a day and
try to understand his brothers, and agree as the others did at the Lake of the Woods. I put my
name, and the Chiefs and the head men put theirs, and I gave the
Chief a copy, and I told him when I went home to Red River I would
have it all written out, a true copy made on skin, that could not
be rubbed out, that I would send a copy to his people so that when
we were dead and gone the letter would be there to speak for itself,
to show everything that was promised; and that was the right way to
do.

I did so, and sent a copy of the treaty written in letters of blue,
gold, and black to the Chief "Maw-do-pe-nais," whom the people had
told to keep it for them. He who speaks for the Saulteaux tells us
they have not made up their minds yet about the land-- he tells us
they have not decided to refuse our hands.

I am glad to hear him say that, and if it will please my Indian brethren
here we will be glad to wait another day and meet them here to-morrow
morning, if they will promise me with the words of men that they
will look this matter straight in the face; that they will lay aside
every feeling except the good of their people, and try to see what
is right, and that they will come back and say,'We have done our best,
we have tried to be of one mind, and considered what was best for
now, and to-morrow, and the years that are to come when we have all
passed away.

This is our answer. We are very much in earnest about this matter.'The Chief said I was not
very well, yet I am here. Why? Because the duty was laid upon me I was afraid of the journey,
but when a Chief has a duty to do he tries to do it, and I felt that if I could do you any
good, as I believed I could, I ought to be here. I tell you this, trust my words, they come
from the heart of one who loves the Indian people, and who is charged
by his Queen to tell them the words of truth. "
Then he raised himself and spoke with effort. "Jane I've cost you too much. You've almost ruined
yourself for me. It was wrong, for I'm not worth it. I never deserved such friendship. Well,
maybe it's not too late. You must give me up. Mind, I haven't changed. I am just the same as
ever. I'll see Tull while I'm here, and tell him to his face."

"Bern, it's too late," said Jane.

"I'll make him believe!" cried Venters, violently.

"You ask me to break our friendship?"

"Yes. If you don't, I shall."

"Forever?"

"Forever!"

Jane sighed. Another shadow had lengthened down the sage slope to cast further darkness upon
her. A melancholy sweetness pervaded her resignation. The boy who had left her had returned
a man, nobler, stronger, one in whom she divined something unbending as steel. There might
come a moment later when she would wonder why she had not fought against his will, but just
now she yielded to it. She liked him as well--nay, more, she thought, only her emotions were
deadened by the long, menacing wait for the bursting storm.

Once before she had held out her hand to him--when she gave it; now she stretched it tremblingly
forth in acceptance of the decree circumstance had laid upon them. Venters bowed over it kissed
it, pressed it hard, and half stifled a sound very like a sob. Certain it was that when he
raised his head tears glistened in his eyes.

"Some--women--have a hard lot," he said, huskily. Then he shook his powerful form, and his
rags lashed about him. "I'll say a few things to Tull--when I meet him."

"Bern--you'll not draw on Tull? Oh, that must not be! Promise me--"

"I promise you this," he interrupted, in stern passion that thrilled while it terrorized her.
"If you say one more word for that plotter I'll kill him as I would a mad coyote!" 

Lincoln, VIII, 307-308.

19. Barnes, 428; Reminiscences, XXX, XXXIII-XXXVIII.

This story is told on the authority of Weed with much circumstantial detail including the full text
of a letter written by McClellan. The letter was produced because
McClellan had said that no negotiations took place. Though the letter
plainly alludes to negotiations of some sort, it does not mention
the specific offer attributed to Lincoln. Nicolay and Hay are silent
on the subject. See also note five, above.

20. I intend to stay there. It's so hidden I believe
no one can find it. There's good water, and browse, and game. I want to raise corn and stock.
I need to take in supplies. Will you give them to me?"

"Assuredly. The more you take the better you'll please me--and perhaps the less my--my enemies
will get."

"Venters, I reckon you'll have trouble packin' anythin' away," put in Lassiter.

"I'll go at night."

"Mebbe that wouldn't be best. You'd sure be stopped. You'd better go early in the mornin'--say,
just after dawn. That's the safest time to move round here."

"Lassiter, I'll be hard to stop," returned Venters, darkly.

"I reckon so."

"Bern," said Jane, "go first to the riders' quarters and get yourself a complete outfit. You're
a--a sight. Then help yourself to whatever else you need--burros, packs, grain, dried fruits,
and meat. You must take coffee and sugar and flour--all kinds of supplies. Don't forget corn
and seeds. I remember how you used to starve. Please--please take all you can pack away from
here. I'll make a bundle for you, which you mustn't open till you're in your valley. How I'd
like to see it! To judge by you and Wrangle, how wild it must be!"

Jane walked down into the outer court and approached the sorrel. Upstarting, he laid back his
ears and eyed her.

"Wrangle--dear old Wrangle," she said, and put a caressing hand on his matted mane. "Oh, he's
wild, but he knows me! Bern, can he run as fast as ever?"

"Run? Jane, he's done sixty miles since last night at dark, and I could make him kill Black
Star right now in a ten-mile race."

"He never could," protested Jane. "He couldn't even if he was fresh."

"I reckon mebbe the best hoss'll prove himself yet," said Lassiter, "an', Jane, if it ever
comes to that race I'd like you to be on Wrangle."

"I'd like that, too," rejoined Venters. "But, Jane, maybe Lassiter's hint is extreme. Bad as
your prospects are, you'll surely never come to the running point."

"Who knows!" she replied, with mournful smile.

"No, no, Jane, it can't be so bad as all that. Soon as I see Tull there'll be a change in your
fortunes. I'll hurry down to the village.... Now don't worry."

Jane retired to the seclusion of her room. Lassiter's subtle forecasting of disaster, Venters's
forced optimism, neither remained in mind. Material loss weighed nothing in the balance with
other losses she was sustaining. She wondered dully at her sitting there, hands folded listlessly,
with a kind of numb deadness to the passing of time and the passing of her riches. She thought
of Venters's friendship. She had not lost that, but she had lost him. Lassiter's friendship--that
was more than love--it would endure, but soon he, too, would be gone. Little Fay slept dreamlessly
upon the bed, her golden curls streaming over the pillow. Jane had the child's worship. Would
she lose that, too? And if she did, what then would be left? Conscience thundered at her that
there was left her religion. Conscience thundered that she should be grateful on her knees
for this baptism of fire; that through misfortune, sacrifice, and suffering her soul might
be fused pure gold. But the old, spontaneous, rapturous spirit no more exalted her. She wanted
to be a woman--not a martyr. Like the saint of old who mortified his flesh, Jane Withersteen
had in her the temper for heroic martyrdom, if by sacrificing herself she could save the souls
of others. But here the damnable verdict blistered her that the more she sacrificed herself
the blacker grew the souls of her churchmen. There was something terribly wrong with her soul,
something terribly wrong with her churchmen and her religion. In the whirling gulf of her thought
there was yet one shining light to guide her, to sustain her in her hope; and it was that,
despite her errors and her frailties and her blindness, she had one absolute and unfaltering
hold on ultimate and supreme justice. That was love. "Love your enemies as yourself!" was a
divine word, entirely free from any church or creed.

Jane's meditations were disturbed by Lassiter's soft, tinkling step in the court. Always he
wore the clinking spurs. Always he was in readiness to ride. She passed out and called him
into the huge, dim hall.

"I think you'll be safer here. The court is too open," she said.

"I reckon," replied Lassiter. "An' it's cooler here. The day's sure muggy. Well, I went down
to the village with Venters."

"Already! Where is he?" queried Jane, in quick amaze.

"He's at the corrals. Blake's helpin' him get the burros an' packs ready. That Blake is a good
fellow."

"Did--did Bern meet Tull?"

"I guess he did," answered Lassiter, and he laughed dryly.

"Tell me! Oh, you exasperate me! You're so cool, so calm! For Heaven's sake, tell me what happened!"

"First time I've been in the village for weeks," went on Lassiter, mildly. "I reckon there
'ain't been more of a show for a long time. Me an' Venters walkin' down the road! It was funny.
I ain't sayin' anybody was particular glad to see us. I'm not much thought of hereabouts, an'
Venters he sure looks like what you called him, a wild man. Well, there was some runnin' of
folks before we got to the stores. Then everybody vamoosed except some surprised rustlers in
front of a saloon. Venters went right in the stores an' saloons, an' of course I went along.
I don't know which tickled me the most--the actions of many fellers we met, or Venters's nerve.
Jane, I was downright glad to be along. You see that sort of thing is my element, an' I've
been away from it for a spell. But we didn't find Tull in one of them places. Some Gentile
feller at last told Venters he'd find Tull in that long buildin' next to Parsons's store. It's
a kind of meetin'-room; and sure enough, when we peeped in, it was half full of men.

"Venters yelled: 'Don't anybody pull guns! We ain't come for that!' Then he tramped in, an'
I was some put to keep alongside him. There was a hard, scrapin' sound of feet, a loud cry,
an' then some whisperin', an' after that stillness you could cut with a knife. Tull was there,
an' that fat party who once tried to throw a gun on me, an' other important-lookin' men, en'
that little frog-legged feller who was with Tull the day I rode in here. I wish you could have
seen their faces, 'specially Tull's an' the fat party's. But there ain't no use of me tryin'
to tell you how they looked.

"Well, Venters an' I stood there in the middle of the room with that batch of men all in front
of us, en' not a blamed one of them winked an eyelash or moved a finger. It was natural, of
course, for me to notice many of them packed guns. That's a way of mine, first noticin' them
things. Venters spoke up, an' his voice sort of chilled an' cut, en' he told Tull he had a
few things to say."

Here Lassiter paused while he turned his sombrero round and round, in his familiar habit, and
his eyes had the look of a man seeing over again some thrilling spectacle, and under his red
bronze there was strange animation.

"Like a shot, then, Venters told Tull that the friendship between you an' him was all over,
an' he was leaving your place. He said you'd both of you broken off in the hope of propitiatin'
your people, but you hadn't changed your mind otherwise, an' never would.

"Next he spoke up for you. I ain't goin' to tell you what he said. Only--no other woman who
ever lived ever had such tribute! You had a champion, Jane, an' never fear that those thick-skulled
men don't know you now. It couldn't be otherwise. He spoke the ringin', lightnin' truth....
Then he accused Tull of the underhand, miserable robbery of a helpless woman. He told Tull
where the red herd was, of a deal made with Oldrin', that Jerry Card had made the deal. I thought
Tull was goin' to drop, an' that little frog-legged cuss, he looked some limp an' white. But
Venters's voice would have kept anybody's legs from bucklin'. I was stiff myself. He went on
an' called Tull--called him every bad name ever known to a rider, an' then some. He cursed
Tull. I never hear a man get such a cursin'. He laughed in scorn at the idea of Tull bein'
a minister. He said Tull an' a few more dogs of hell builded their empire out of the hearts
of such innocent an' God-fearin' women as Jane Withersteen. He called Tull a binder of women,
a callous beast who hid behind a mock mantle of righteousness--an' the last an' lowest coward
on the face of the earth. To prey on weak women through their religion--that was the last unspeakable
crime!

"Then he finished, an' by this time he'd almost lost his voice. But his whisper was enough.
'Tull,' he said, 'she begged me not to draw on you to-day. She would pray for you if you burned
her at the stake.... But listen!... I swear if you and I ever come face to face again, I'll
kill you!'

"We backed out of the door then, an' up the road. But nobody follered us."

Jane found herself weeping passionately. She had not been conscious of it till Lassiter ended
his story, and she experienced exquisite pain and relief in shedding tears. Long had her eyes
been dry, her grief deep; long had her emotions been dumb. Lassiter's story put her on the
rack; the appalling nature of Venters's act and speech had no parallel as an outrage; it was
worse than bloodshed. Men like Tull had been shot, but had one ever been so terribly denounced
in public? Over-mounting her horror, an uncontrollable, quivering passion shook her very soul.
It was sheer human glory in the deed of a fearless man. It was hot, primitive instinct to live--to
fight. It was a kind of mad joy in Venters's chivalry. It was close to the wrath that had first
shaken her in the beginning of this war waged upon her.

"Well, well, Jane, don't take it that way," said Lassiter, in evident distress. "I had to tell
you. There's some things a feller jest can't keep. It's strange you give up on hearin' that,
when all this long time you've been the gamest woman I ever seen. But I don't know women. Mebbe
there's reason for you to cry. I know this--nothin' ever rang in my soul an' so filled it as
what Venters did. I'd like to have done it, but--I'm only good for throwin' a gun, en' it seems
you hate that.... Well, I'll be goin' now."

"Where?"

"Venters took Wrangle to the stable. The sorrel's shy a shoe, an' I've got to help hold the
big devil an' put on another."

"Tell Bern to come for the pack I want to give him--and--and to say good-by," called Jane,
as Lassiter went out.

Jane passed the rest of that day in a vain endeavor to decide what and what not to put in the
pack for Venters. This task was the last she would ever perform for him, and the gifts were
the last she would ever make him. So she picked and chose and rejected, and chose again, and
often paused in sad revery, and began again, till at length she filled the pack.

It was about sunset, and she and Fay had finished supper and were sitting in the court, when
Venters's quick steps rang on the stones. She scarcely knew him, for he had changed the tattered
garments, and she missed the dark beard and long hair. Still he was not the Venters of old.
As he came up the steps she felt herself pointing to the pack, and heard herself speaking words
that were meaningless to her. He said good-by; he kissed her, released her, and turned away.
His tall figure blurred in her sight, grew dim through dark, streaked vision, and then he vanished.

Twilight fell around Withersteen House, and dusk and night. Little Fay slept; but Jane lay
with strained, aching eyes. She heard the wind moaning in the cottonwoods and mice squeaking
in the walls. The night was interminably long, yet she prayed to hold back the dawn. What would
another day bring forth? The blackness of her room seemed blacker for the sad, entering gray
of morning light. She heard the chirp of awakening birds, and fancied she caught a faint clatter
of hoofs. Then low, dull distant, throbbed a heavy gunshot. She had expected it, was waiting
for it; nevertheless, an electric shock checked her heart, froze the very living fiber of her
bones. That vise-like hold on her faculties apparently did not relax for a long time, and it
was a voice under her window that released her.

"Jane!... Jane!" softly called Lassiter.

She answered somehow.

"It's all right. Venters got away. I thought mebbe you'd heard that shot, en' I was worried some."

"What was it--who fired?"

"Well--some fool feller tried to stop Venters out there in the sage--an' he only stopped lead!...
I think it'll be all right. I haven't seen or heard of any other fellers round. Venters'll
go through safe. An', Jane, I've got Bells saddled, an' I'm going to trail Venters. Mind, I
won't show myself unless he falls foul of somebody an' needs me. I want to see if this place
where he's goin' is safe for him. He says nobody can track him there. I never seen the place
yet I couldn't track a man to. Now, Jane, you stay indoors while I'm gone, an' keep close watch
on Fay. Will you?"

"Yes! Oh yes!"

"An' another thing, Jane," he continued, then paused for long--"another thing--if you ain't
here when I come back--if you're gone--don't fear, I'll trail you--I'll find you out."

"My dear Lassiter, where could I be gone--as you put it?" asked Jane, in curious surprise.

"I reckon you might be somewhere. Mebbe tied in an old barn--or corralled in some gulch--or
chained in a cave! Milly Erne was--till she give in! Mebbe that's news to you.... Well, if
you're gone I'll hunt for you."

"No, Lassiter," she replied, sadly and low. "If I'm gone just forget the unhappy woman whose
blinded selfish deceit you repaid with kindness and love."

She heard a deep, muttering curse, under his breath, and then the silvery tinkling of his spurs
as he moved away.

Jane entered upon the duties of that day with a settled, gloomy calm. Disaster hung in the
dark clouds, in the shade, in the humid west wind. Blake, when he reported, appeared without
his usual cheer; and Jerd wore a harassed look of a worn and worried man. And when Judkins
put in appearance, riding a lame horse, and dismounted with the cramp of a rider, his dust-covered
figure and his darkly grim, almost dazed expression told Jane of dire calamity. She had no
need of words.

"Miss Withersteen, I have to report--loss of the--white herd," said Judkins, hoarsely.

"Come, sit down, you look played out," replied Jane, solicitously. She brought him brandy and
food, and while he partook of refreshments, of which he appeared badly in need, she asked no
questions.

"No one rider--could hev done more--Miss Withersteen," he went on, presently.

"Judkins, don't be distressed. You've done more than any other rider. I've long expected to
lose the white herd. It's no surprise. It's in line with other things that are happening. I'm
grateful for your service."

"Miss Withersteen, I knew how you'd take it. But if anythin', that makes it harder to tell.
You see, a feller wants to do so much fer you, an' I'd got fond of my job. We led the herd
a ways off to the north of the break in the valley. There was a big level an' pools of water
an' tip-top browse. But the cattle was in a high nervous condition. Wild--as wild as antelope!
You see, they'd been so scared they never slept. I ain't a-goin' to tell you of the many tricks
that were pulled off out there in the sage. But there wasn't a day for weeks thet the herd
didn't get started to run. We allus managed to ride 'em close an' drive 'em back an' keep 'em
bunched. Honest, Miss Withersteen, them steers was thin. They was thin when water and grass
was everywhere. Thin at this season--thet'll tell you how your steers was pestered. Fer instance,
one night a strange runnin' streak of fire run right through the herd. That streak was a coyote--with
an oiled an' blazin' tail! Fer I shot it an' found out. We had hell with the herd that night,
an' if the sage an' grass hadn't been wet--we, hosses, steers, an' all would hev burned up.
But I said I wasn't goin' to tell you any of the tricks.... Strange now, Miss Withersteen,
when the stampede did come it was from natural cause--jest a whirlin' devil of dust. You've
seen the like often. An' this wasn't no big whirl, fer the dust was mostly settled. It had
dried out in a little swale, an' ordinarily no steer would ever hev run fer it. But the herd
was nervous en' wild. An' jest as Lassiter said, when that bunch of white steers got to movin'
they was as bad as buffalo. I've seen some buffalo stampedes back in Nebraska, an' this bolt
of the steers was the same kind.

"I tried to mill the herd jest as Lassiter did. But I wasn't equal to it, Miss Withersteen.
I don't believe the rider lives who could hev turned thet herd. We kept along of the herd fer
miles, an' more 'n one of my boys tried to get the steers a-millin'. It wasn't no use. We got
off level ground, goin' down, an' then the steers ran somethin' fierce. We left the little
gullies an' washes level-full of dead steers. Finally I saw the herd was makin' to pass a kind
of low pocket between ridges. There was a hog-back--as we used to call 'em--a pile of rocks
stickin' up, and I saw the herd was goin' to split round it, or swing out to the left. An'
I wanted 'em to go to the right so mebbe we'd be able to drive 'em into the pocket. So, with
all my boys except three, I rode hard to turn the herd a little to the right. We couldn't budge
'em. They went on en' split round the rocks, en' the most of 'em was turned sharp to the left
by a deep wash we hedn't seen--hed no chance to see.

"The other three boys--Jimmy Vail, Joe Willis, an' thet little Cairns boy--a nervy kid! they,
with Cairns leadin', tried to buck thet herd round to the pocket. It was a wild, fool idee.
I couldn't do nothin'. The boys got hemmed in between the steers an' the wash--thet they hedn't
no chance to see, either. Vail an' Willis was run down right before our eyes. An' Cairns, who
rode a fine hoss, he did some ridin'. I never seen equaled, en' would hev beat the steers if
there'd been any room to run in. I was high up an' could see how the steers kept spillin' by
twos an' threes over into the wash. Cairns put his hoss to a place thet was too wide fer any
hoss, an' broke his neck an' the hoss's too. We found that out after, an' as fer Vail an' Willis--two
thousand steers ran over the poor boys. There wasn't much left to pack home fer burying!...
An', Miss Withersteen, thet all happened yesterday, en' I believe, if the white herd didn't
run over the wall of the Pass, it's runnin' yet."

On the morning of the second day after Judkins's recital, during which time Jane remained indoors
a prey to regret and sorrow for the boy riders, and a new and now strangely insistent fear
for her own person, she again heard what she had missed more than she dared honestly confess--the
soft, jingling step of Lassiter. Almost overwhelming relief surged through her, a feeling as
akin to joy as any she could have been capable of in those gloomy hours of shadow, and one
that suddenly stunned her with the significance of what Lassiter had come to mean to her. She
had begged him, for his own sake, to leave Cottonwoods. She might yet beg that, if her weakening
courage permitted her to dare absolute loneliness and helplessness, but she realized now that
if she were left alone her life would become one long, hideous nightmare.

When his soft steps clinked into the hall, in answer to her greeting, and his tall, black-garbed
form filled the door, she felt an inexpressible sense of immediate safety. In his presence
she lost her fear of the dim passageways of Withersteen House and of every sound. Always it
had been that, when he entered the court or the hall, she had experienced a distinctly sickening
but gradually lessening shock at sight of the huge black guns swinging at his sides. This time
the sickening shock again visited her, it was, however, because a revealing flash of thought
told her that it was not alone Lassiter who was thrillingly welcome, but also his fatal weapons.
They meant so much. How she had fallen--how broken and spiritless must she be--to have still
the same old horror of Lassiter's guns and his name, yet feel somehow a cold, shrinking protection
in their law and might and use.

"Did you trail Venters--find his wonderful valley?" she asked, eagerly.

"Yes, an' I reckon it's sure a wonderful place."

"Is he safe there?"

"That's been botherin' me some. I tracked him an' part of the trail was the hardest I ever
tackled. Mebbe there's a rustler or somebody in this country who's as good at trackin' as I
am. If that's so Venters ain't safe."

"Well--tell me all about Bern and his valley."

To Jane's surprise Lassiter showed disinclination for further talk about his trip. He appeared
to be extremely fatigued. Jane reflected that one hundred and twenty miles, with probably a
great deal of climbing on foot, all in three days, was enough to tire any rider. Moreover,
it presently developed that Lassiter had returned in a mood of singular sadness and preoccupation.
She put it down to a moodiness over the loss of her white herd and the now precarious condition
of her fortune.

Several days passed, and as nothing happened, Jane's spirits began to brighten. Once in her
musings she thought that this tendency of hers to rebound was as sad as it was futile. Meanwhile,
she had resumed her walks through the grove with little Fay.

One morning she went as far as the sage. She had not seen the slope since the beginning of
the rains, and now it bloomed a rich deep purple. There was a high wind blowing, and the sage
tossed and waved and colored beautifully from light to dark. Clouds scudded across the sky
and their shadows sailed darkly down the sunny slope.

Upon her return toward the house she went by the lane to the stables, and she had scarcely
entered the great open space with its corrals and sheds when she saw Lassiter hurriedly approaching.
Fay broke from her and, running to a corral fence, began to pat and pull the long, hanging
ears of a drowsy burro.

One look at Lassiter armed her for a blow.

Without a word he led her across the wide yard to the rise of the ground upon which the stable
stood.

"Jane--look!" he said, and pointed to the ground.

Jane glanced down, and again, and upon steadier vision made out splotches of blood on the stones,
and broad, smooth marks in the dust, leading out toward the sage.

"What made these?" she asked.

"I reckon somebody has dragged dead or wounded men out to where there was hosses in the sage."

"Dead--or--wounded--men!"

"I reckon--Jane, are you strong? Can you bear up?"

His hands were gently holding hers, and his eyes--suddenly she could no longer look into them.
"Strong?" she echoed, trembling. "I--I will be."

Up on the stone-flag drive, nicked with the marks made by the iron-shod hoofs of her racers,
Lassiter led her, his grasp ever growing firmer.

"Where's Blake--and--and Jerb?" she asked, haltingly.

"I don't know where Jerb is. Bolted, most likely," replied Lassiter, as he took her through
the stone door. "But Blake--poor Blake! He's gone forever!... Be prepared, Jane."

With a cold prickling of her skin, with a queer thrumming in her ears, with fixed and staring
eyes, Jane saw a gun lying at her feet with chamber swung and empty, and discharged shells
scattered near.

Outstretched upon the stable floor lay Blake, ghastly white--dead--one hand clutching a gun
and the other twisted in his bloody blouse.

"Whoever the thieves were, whether your people or rustlers--Blake killed some of them!" said
Lassiter.

"Thieves?" whispered Jane.

"I reckon. Hoss-thieves!... Look!" Lassiter waved his hand toward the stalls.

The first stall--Bells's stall--was empty. All the stalls were empty. No racer whinnied and
stamped greeting to her. Night was gone! Black Star was gone!

CHAPTER XVI. GOLD

As Lassiter had reported to Jane, Venters "went through" safely, and after a toilsome journey
reached the peaceful shelter of Surprise Valley. When finally he lay wearily down under the
silver spruces, resting from the strain of dragging packs and burros up the slope and through
the entrance to Surprise Valley, he had leisure to think, and a great deal of the time went
in regretting that he had not been frank with his loyal friend, Jane Withersteen.

But, he kept continually recalling, when he had stood once more face to face with her and had
been shocked at the change in her and had heard the details of her adversity, he had not had
the heart to tell her of the closer interest which had entered his life. He had not lied; yet
he had kept silence.

Bess was in transports over the stores of supplies and the outfit he had packed from Cottonwoods.
He had certainly brought a hundred times more than he had gone for; enough, surely, for years,
perhaps to make permanent home in the valley. He saw no reason why he need ever leave there again.

After a day of rest he recovered his strength and shared Bess's pleasure in rummaging over
the endless packs, and began to plan for the future. And in this planning, his trip to Cottonwoods,
with its revived hate of Tull and consequent unleashing of fierce passions, soon faded out
of mind. By slower degrees his friendship for Jane Withersteen and his contrition drifted from
the active preoccupation of his present thought to a place in memory, with more and more infrequent
recalls.

And as far as the state of his mind was concerned, upon the second day after his return, the
valley, with its golden hues and purple shades, the speaking west wind and the cool, silent
night, and Bess's watching eyes with their wonderful light, so wrought upon Venters that he
might never have left them at all.

That very afternoon he set to work. Only one thing hindered him upon beginning, though it in
no wise checked his delight, and that in the multiplicity of tasks planned to make a paradise
out of the valley he could not choose the one with which to begin. He had to grow into the
habit of passing from one dreamy pleasure to another, like a bee going from flower to flower
in the valley, and he found this wandering habit likely to extend to his labors. Nevertheless,
he made a start.

At the outset he discovered Bess to be both a considerable help in some ways and a very great
hindrance in others. Her excitement and joy were spurs, inspirations; but she was utterly impracticable
in her ideas, and she flitted from one plan to another with bewildering vacillation. Moreover,
he fancied that she grew more eager, youthful, and sweet; and he marked that it was far easier
to watch her and listen to her than it was to work. Therefore he gave her tasks that necessitated
her going often to the cave where he had stored his packs.

Upon the last of these trips, when he was some distance down the terrace and out of sight of
camp, he heard a scream, and then the sharp barking of the dogs.

For an instant he straightened up, amazed. Danger for her had been absolutely out of his mind.
She had seen a rattlesnake--or a wildcat. Still she would not have been likely to scream at
sight of either; and the barking of the dogs was ominous. Dropping his work, he dashed back
along the terrace. Upon breaking through a clump of aspens he saw the dark form of a man in
the camp. Cold, then hot, Venters burst into frenzied speed to reach his guns. He was cursing
himself for a thoughtless fool when the man's tall form became familiar and he recognized Lassiter.
Then the reversal of emotions changed his run to a walk; he tried to call out, but his voice
refused to carry; when he reached camp there was Lassiter staring at the white-faced girl.
By that time Ring and Whitie had recognized him.

"Hello, Venters! I'm makin' you a visit," said Lassiter, slowly. "An' I'm some surprised to
see you've a--a young feller for company."

One glance had sufficed for the keen rider to read Bess's real sex, and for once his cool calm
had deserted him. He stared till the white of Bess's cheeks flared into crimson. That, if it
were needed, was the concluding evidence of her femininity, for it went fittingly with her
sun-tinted hair and darkened, dilated eyes, the sweetness of her mouth, and the striking symmetry
of her slender shape.

"Heavens! Lassiter!" panted Venters, when he caught his breath. "What relief--it's only you!
How--in the name of all that's wonderful--did you ever get here?"

"I trailed you. We--I wanted to know where you was, if you had a safe place. So I trailed you."

"Trailed me," cried Venters, bluntly.

"I reckon. It was some of a job after I got to them smooth rocks. I was all day trackin' you
up to them little cut steps in the rock. The rest was easy."

"Where's your hoss? I hope you hid him."

"I tied him in them queer cedars down on the slope. He can't be seen from the valley."

"That's good. Well, well! I'm completely dumfounded. It was my idea that no man could track
me in here."

"I reckon. But if there's a tracker in these uplands as good as me he can find you."

"That's bad. That'll worry me. But, Lassiter, now you're here I'm glad to see you. And--and
my companion here is not a young fellow!... Bess, this is a friend of mine. He saved my life once."

The embarrassment of the moment did not extend to Lassiter. Almost at once his manner, as he
shook hands with Bess, relieved Venters and put the girl at ease. After Venters's words and
one quick look at Lassiter, her agitation stilled, and, though she was shy, if she were conscious
of anything out of the ordinary in the situation, certainly she did not show it.

"I reckon I'll only stay a little while," Lassiter was saying. "An' if you don't mind troublin',
I'm hungry. I fetched some biscuits along, but they're gone. Venters, this place is sure the
wonderfullest ever seen. Them cut steps on the slope! That outlet into the gorge! An' it's
like climbin' up through hell into heaven to climb through that gorge into this valley! There's
a queer-lookin' rock at the top of the passage. I didn't have time to stop. I'm wonderin' how
you ever found this place. It's sure interestin'."

During the preparation and eating of dinner Lassiter listened mostly, as was his wont, and
occasionally he spoke in his quaint and dry way. Venters noted, however, that the rider showed
an increasing interest in Bess. He asked her no questions, and only directed his attention
to her while she was occupied and had no opportunity to observe his scrutiny. It seemed to
Venters that Lassiter grew more and more absorbed in his study of Bess, and that he lost his
coolness in some strange, softening sympathy. Then, quite abruptly, he arose and announced
the necessity for his early departure. He said good-by to Bess in a voice gentle and somewhat
broken, and turned hurriedly away. Venters accompanied him, and they had traversed the terrace,
climbed the weathered slope, and passed under the stone bridge before either spoke again.

Then Lassiter put a great hand on Venters's shoulder and wheeled him to meet a smoldering fire
of gray eyes.

"Lassiter, I couldn't tell Jane! I couldn't," burst out Venters, reading his friend's mind.
"I tried. But I couldn't. She wouldn't understand, and she has troubles enough. And I love
the girl!"

"Venters, I reckon this beats me. I've seen some queer things in my time, too. This girl--who
is she?"

"I don't know."

"Don't know! What is she, then?"

"I don't know that, either. Oh, it's the strangest story you ever heard. I must tell you. But
you'll never believe."

"Venters, women were always puzzles to me. But for all that, if this girl ain't a child, an'
as innocent, I'm no fit person to think of virtue an' goodness in anybody. Are you goin' to
be square with her?"

"I am--so help me God!"

"I reckoned so. Mebbe my temper oughtn't led me to make sure. But, man, she's a woman in all
but years. She's sweeter 'n the sage."

"Lassiter, I know, I know. And the hell of it is that in spite of her innocence and charm she's--she's
not what she seems!"

"I wouldn't want to--of course, I couldn't call you a liar, Venters," said the older man.

"What's more, she was Oldring's Masked Rider!"

Venters expected to floor his friend with that statement, but he was not in any way prepared
for the shock his words gave. For an instant he was astounded to see Lassiter stunned; then
his own passionate eagerness to unbosom himself, to tell the wonderful story, precluded any
other thought.

"Son, tell me all about this," presently said Lassiter as he seated himself on a stone and
wiped his moist brow.

Thereupon Venters began his narrative at the point where he had shot the rustler and Oldring's
Masked Rider, and he rushed through it, telling all, not holding back even Bess's unreserved
avowal of her love or his deepest emotions.

"That's the story," he said, concluding. "I love her, though I've never told her. If I did
tell her I'd be ready to marry her, and that seems impossible in this country. I'd be afraid
to risk taking her anywhere. So I intend to do the best I can for her here."

"The longer I live the stranger life is," mused Lassiter, with downcast eyes. "I'm reminded
of somethin' you once said to Jane about hands in her game of life. There's that unseen hand
of power, an' Tull's black hand, an' my red one, an' your indifferent one, an' the girl's little
brown, helpless one. An', Venters there's another one that's all-wise an' all-wonderful. That's
the hand guidin' Jane Withersteen's game of life!... Your story's one to daze a far clearer
head than mine. I can't offer no advice, even if you asked for it. Mebbe I can help you. Anyway,
I'll hold Oldrin' up when he comes to the village an' find out about this girl. I knew the
rustler years ago. He'll remember me."

"Lassiter, if I ever meet Oldring I'll kill him!" cried Venters, with sudden intensity.

"I reckon that'd be perfectly natural," replied the rider.

"Make him think Bess is dead--as she is to him and that old life."

"Sure, sure, son. Cool down now. If you're goin' to begin pullin' guns on Tull an' Oldin' you
want to be cool. I reckon, though, you'd better keep hid here. Well, I must be leavin'."

"One thing, Lassiter. You'll not tell Jane about Bess? Please don't!"

"I reckon not. But I wouldn't be afraid to bet that after she'd got over anger at your secrecy--Venters,
she'd be furious once in her life!--she'd think more of you. I don't mind sayin' for myself
that I think you're a good deal of a man."

In the further ascent Venters halted several times with the intention of saying good-by, yet
he changed his mind and kept on climbing till they reached Balancing Rock. Lassiter examined
the huge rock, listened to Venters's idea of its position and suggestion, and curiously placed
a strong hand upon it.

"Hold on!" cried Venters. "I heaved at it once and have never gotten over my scare."

"Well, you do seem uncommon nervous," replied Lassiter, much amused. "Now, as for me, why I
always had the funniest notion to roll stones! When I was a kid I did it, an' the bigger I
got the bigger stones I'd roll. Ain't that funny? Honest--even now I often get off my hoss
just to tumble a big stone over a precipice, en' watch it drop, en' listen to it bang an' boom.
I've started some slides in my time, an' don't you forget it. I never seen a rock I wanted
to roll as bad as this one! Wouldn't there jest be roarin', crashin' hell down that trail?" 

We are now fifty days on salted provisions, and fifty more will give
us both the scurvy.

"" The Lord in his mercy protect me from that disease! "exclaimed Bob." I had it once, in an old
v'y'ge round the Horn, and have no wish to try it ag'in, But there
must be fish in plenty among these rocks, Mr. Mark, and we have a
good stock of bread.

By dropping the beef and pork, for a few days at a time, might we
not get shut of the danger?

"" Fish
will help us, and turtle would be a great resource, could we meet with any of that. But, man requires
mixed food, meats and vegetables, to keep him healthy; and nothing is so good for the scurvy
as the last. The worst of our situation is a want of soil, to grow any vegetables in. I did not
see so much as a rush, or the coarsest sea-plant, when we were on the island yesterday. If we had soil,
there is seed in plenty on board, and this climate would bring forward vegetation at a rapid
rate.

"" Ay, ay, sir, and I'll tell you what I've got in the way of seeds, myself. You may remember the
delicious musk and watermelons we fell in with last v'y'ge, in the
east.

Well, sir, I saved some of the seed, thinking to give it to my brother, who is a Jarsey farmer,
you know, sir; and, sailor-like, I forgot it altogether, when in port. If a fellow could get
but a bit of earth to put them melon-seeds in, we might be eating our fruit like gentlemen, two
months hence, or three months, at the latest.

"" That is a good thought, Betts, and we will turn it over in our minds. If such a thing is to
be done at all, the sooner it is done the better, that the melons maybe getting ahead while
we are busy with the other matters. This is just the season to put seed into the ground, and I think
we might make soil enough to sustain a few hills of melons.

If I remember right, too, there are some of the sweet potatoes left.

"Bob assented, and during the rest of the meal they did nothing but pursue this plan of endeavouring
to obtain half-a-dozen or a dozen hills of melons. As Mark felt all the importance of doing everything
that lay in his power to ward off the scurvy, and knew that time was not to be lost, he determined
that the very first thing he would now attend to, would be to get all the seed into as much ground
as he could contrive to make. Accordingly, as soon as the breakfast was ended, Mark went to collect
his seeds Bob set the breakfast things aside, after properly cleaning
them.

There were four shoats on board, which had been kept in the launch, until that boat was put
into the water, the night the Rancocus ran upon the rocks. Since that time they had been left
to run about the decks, producing a good deal of dirt, and some confusion. These shoats Bob now
caught, and dropped into the bay, knowing that their instinct would
induce them to swim for the nearest land.

All this turned out as was expected, and the pigs were soon seen on the island, snuffing around
on the rocks, and trying to root. A small quantity of the excrement of these animals still lay
on the deck, where it had been placed when the launch was cleaned for service, no one thinking
at such a moment of cleaning the decks. It had been washed by the sea that came aboard quite
across the deck, but still formed a pile, and most of it was preserved. This manure Mark was
about to put in a half-barrel, in order to carry it ashore, for the purpose of converting it
into soil, when Bob suddenly put an end to what he was about, by telling him that he knew where
a manure worth two of that was to be found.

An explanation was asked and given.

Bob, who had been several voyages on the western coast of America,
told Mark that the Peruvians and Chilians made great use of the dung
of aquatic birds, as a manure, and which they found on the rocks that
lined their coast.

Now two or three rocks lay near the reef, that were covered with
this deposit, the birds still hovering about them, and he proposed
to take the dingui, and go in quest of a little of that fertilizing
manure.

A very little, he said, would suffice, the Spaniards using it in small quantities, but applying
it at different stages in the growth of the plant.

It is scarcely necessary to say that Bob had fallen on a knowledge of the use of the article
which is now so extensively known under the name of guano, in the course of his wanderings,
and was enabled to communicate the fact to his companion.

Mark knew that Betts was a man of severe truth, and he was so much
the more disposed to listen to his suggestion.

While our young mate was getting the boat ready, therefore, Bob collected his tools, provided himself
with a bucket, passed the half-barrel, into which Mark had thrown
the sweepings of the decks, into the dingui, and descended himself
and took the sculls.

The two then proceeded to Bob's rock, where, amid the screams of
a thousand sea-birds, the honest fellow filled his bucket with as
good guano as was ever found on the coast of Peru.

While the boat was at the rock, Mark saw that the pigs had run round
to the western end of the island, snuffing at everything that came
in their way, and trying in vain to root wherever one of them could
insert his nose.

As a hog is a particularly sagacious animal, Mark kept his eyes on them while Bob was picking
out his guano, in the faint hope that they might discover fresh water, by means of their instinct.
In this way he saw them enter the gate way of the crater, pigs being pretty certain to run
their noses into any such place as that.

On landing, Mark took a part of the tools and the bucket of guano,
while Bob shouldered the remainder, and they went up to the hole,
and entered the crater together, having landed as near to the gate-way
as they could get, with that object.

To Mark's great delight he found that the pigs were now actually rooting with some success,
so far as stirring the surface was concerned, though getting absolutely nothing for their pains.
There were spots on the plain of the crater, however, where it was
possible, by breaking a sort of crust, to get down into coarse ashes
that were not entirely without some of the essentials of soil.

Exposure to the air and water, with mixing up with sea-weed and such
other waste materials as he could collect, the young man fancied would
enable him to obtain a sufficiency of earthy substances to sustain
the growth of plants.

While on the summit of the crater-wall, he had seen two or three places where it had struck
him sweet-potatoes and beans might be made to grow, and he determined
to ascend to those spots, and make his essay there, as being the most
removed from the inroads of the pigs.

Could he only succeed in obtaining two or three hundred melons, he
felt that a great deal would be done in providing the means of checking
any disposition to scurvy that might appear in Bob or himself.

In this thoughtful manner did one so young look ahead, and make provision
for the future.

Chapter VI."---- that done, partake The season, prime for sweetest
scents and airs; Then commune how that day they best may ply Their
growing work; for much their work outgrew The hands dispatch of two
gard'ning so wide.

"Milton. Our two mariners had come ashore well provided with the
means of carrying out their plans. The Rancocus was far better provided
with tools suited to the uses of the land, than was common for ships,
her voyage contemplating a long stay among the islands she was to
visit.

Thus, axes and picks were not wanting, Captain Crutchely having had
an eye to the possible necessity of fortifying himself against savages.

Mark now ascended the crater-wall with a pick on his shoulder, and a part of a coil of ratlin-stuff around
his neck. As he went up, he used the pick to make steps, and did so
much in that way, in the course of ten minutes, as greatly to facilitate
the ascent and descent at the particular place he had selected.

Once on the summit, he found a part of the rock that overhung its base,
and dropped one end of his line into the crater.

To this Bob attached the bucket, which Mark hauled up and emptied. In this manner everything was transferred
to the top of the crater-wall that was needed there, when Bob went down to the dingui to roll
up the half-barrel of sweepings that had been brought from the ship.
Mark next looked about for the places which had seemed to him, on
his previous visit, to have most of the character of soil.

He found a plenty of these spots, mostly in detached cavities of
no great extent, where the crust had not yet formed; or, having once
formed, had been disturbed by the action of the elements.

These places he first picked to pieces with his pick; then he stirred them well up with a hoe,
scattering a little guano in the heaps, according to the directions
of Betts. When this was done, he sent down the bucket, and hauled up the
sweepings of the deck, which Bob had ready for him, below.

Nor was this all Bob had done, during the hour Mark was at work, in the sun, on the summit of
the crater. He had found a large deposit of sea-weed, on a rock near the island, and had made
two or three trips with the dingui, back and forth, to transfer some of it to the crater. After all
his toil and trouble, the worthy fellow did not get more than a hogshead full of this new
material, but Mark thought it well worth while to haul it up, and to endeavour to mix it with
his compost. This was done by making it up in bundles, as one would roll up hay, of a size that the
young man could manage.

Bob now joined his friend on the crater-wall, and assisted in carrying the sea-weed to the
places prepared to receive it, when both of the mariners next set about mixing it up with the other
ingredients of the intended soil. After working for another hour in this manner, they were of opinion
that they might make the experiment of putting in the seed. Melons, of both sorts, and of the
very best quality, were now put into the ground, as were also beans peas, and Indian-corn, or
maize. A few cucumber-seeds, and some onions were also tried, Captain Crutchely having brought
with him a considerable quantity of the common garden seeds, as a
benefit conferred on the natives of the islands he intended to visit,
and through them on future navigators.

This care proceeded from his owners, who were what is called'Friends,'and who somewhat oddly blended
benevolence with the practices of worldly gain. Mark certainly knew very little of gardening, but Bob could
turn his hand to almost anything. Several mistakes were made, notwithstanding, more particularly
in the use of the seed, with which they were not particularly acquainted. Mark's Reef lay just within
the tropics, it is true (in 21° south latitude), but the constant sea-breeze
rendered its climate much cooler than would otherwise have been the
case.

Thus the peas, and beans, and even the onions, did better, perhaps, on the
top of the crater, than they would have done in it; but the ochre, egg-plants,
melons, and two or three other seeds that they used, would probably have
succeeded better had they been placed in the warmest spots which
could be found.

In one respect Mark made a good gardener. He knew that moisture was indispensable to the growth
of most plants, and had taken care to put all his seeds into cavities,
where the rain that fell (and he had no reason to suppose that the
dry season had yet set in) would not run off and be wasted.

On this point he manifested a good deal of judgment, using his hoe in a way to avoid equally
the danger of having too much or too little water. It was dinner-time before Mark and Betts were
ready to quit the'Summit,'as they now began to term the only height in their solitary domains.
Bob had foreseen the necessity of a shade, and had thrown an old royal
into the boat.

With this, and two or three light spars, he contrived to make a sort
of canopy, down in the crater, beneath which he and Mark dined, and
took their siestas. While resting on a spare studding-sail that had
also been brought along, the mariners talked over what they had done,
and what it might be best to undertake next.

Thus far Mark had been working under a species of excitement, that was probably natural enough
to his situation, but which wanted the coolness and discretion that are
necessary to render our efforts the most profitable to ourselves,
or to others.

Now, that the feverish feeling which set him at work so early to make a provision against wants
which, at the worst, were merely problematical, had subsided, Mark
began to see that there remained many things to do, which were of
even more pressing necessity than anything yet done.

Among the first of these there was the perfect security of the ship. So long as she rode at a single
anchor, she could not be considered as absolutely safe; for a shift of wind would cause her to
swing against the'sea-wall,'as he called the natural breakwater outside of her, where, if not
absolutely wrecked, she might receive material damage. Prudence required, therefore, that the ship
should be moored, as well as anchored. Nevertheless, there was a
good deal of truth in what Mark had said touching the plants growing
while he and Bob were busy at other matters; and this thought, of
itself, formed a sufficient justification for what he had just done,
much as it had been done under present excitement.

As they under the shade of the royal, our mariners discussed these matters, and matured some plans
for the future. At two o'clock Mark and Bob resumed their work. The latter suggested the necessity
of getting food and water ashore for the pigs, as an act that humanity imperiously demanded of them;
not humanity in the sense of feeling for our kind, but in the sense in which we all ought to feel
for animal suffering, whether endured by man or beast. Mark assented as to the food, but was of opinion
a thunder shower was about to pass over the reef. The weather certainly did wear this aspect, and
Bob was content to wait the result, in order to save himself unnecessary trouble. As for the
pigs, they were still in the crater rooting, as it might be for life or death, though nothing
edible had as yet rewarded them for their toil. Perhaps they found it pleasant to be thrusting
their noses into something that resembled soil, after so long a confinement to the planks of a ship.
Seeing them at work in this manner, suggested to Mark to try another
experiment, which certainly looked far enough ahead, as if he had no
great hopes of getting off the island for years to come. Among the
seeds of Captain Crutchely were those of oranges, lemons, limes,
shaddocks, figs, and grapes; all plants well enough suited to the
place, if there were only soil to nourish them.

Now, one of the hogs had been rooting, as best he might, just under the wall, on the northern
side of the crater, making a long row of little hillocks, of earthy
ashes, at unequal distances it is true, but well enough disposed for
the nature of the different fruits, could they only be got to grow.

Along this irregular row of hillocks did Mark bury his seeds, willing to try an experiment which
might possibly benefit some other human being, if it never did any good to himself. When this
was done, he and Betts left the crater, driving the hogs out before them. Having made his plantation,
Mark felt a natural desire to preserve it. He got the royal, therefore, and succeeded in fastening
it up as a substitute for a gate, in their natural gate-way. Had the pigs met with any success
in rooting, it is not probable this slight obstacle would have prevented
their finding their way, again, into the cavity of the crater; but,
as it was, it proved all-sufficient, and the sail was permitted to
hang before the hole, until a more secure gate was suspended in its
stead.

The appearances of the thunder-shower were so much increased by this time, that our mariners hastened
back to the ship in order to escape a ducking.

They had hardly got on board before the gust came, a good deal of water falling, though not in the torrents
in which one sometimes sees it stream down within the tropics. In an hour it was all over, the
sun coming out bright and scorching, after the passage of the gust. One thing occurred, however,
which at first caused both of the seamen a good deal of uneasiness, and again showed them the
necessity there was for mooring the ship. The wind shifted from the ordinary direction of the
trades, during the squall, to a current of air that was nearly at
right angles to the customary course.

This caused the ship to swing, and brought her so near the sea-wall, that once or twice her side
actually rubbed against it. Mark was aware, by his previous sounding, that this wall rather impended
over its base, being a part of an old crater, beyond a question, and that there was little danger of
the vessel's hitting the bottom, or taking harm in any other way than by friction against the upper
part; but this friction might become too rude, and finally endanger the safety of the vessel. As soon as
the weather became fine, however, the trades returned, and the ship
swung round to her old berth.

Bob now suggested the expediency of carrying out their heaviest kedge ashore, of planting it in the
rocks, and of running out to it two or three parts of a hawser, to which a line of planks might
be lashed, and thus give them the means of entering and quitting the ship, without having recourse
to the dingui. Mark approved of this plan, and, it requiring a raft to carry ashore the kedge, the dingui
being so light they were afraid to trust it, it was decided to commence that work in the morning.
For the rest of the present day nothing further was done, beyond
light and necessary jobs, and continuing the examination of the island.

Mark was curious to look at the effect of the shower, both in reference to his plantations, and to the
quantity of fresh water that might have lodged on the reef.

It was determined, therefore, to pass an hour or two ashore before the night shut in again.
Previously to quitting the ship, Bob spoke of the poultry. There were but six hens, a cock,
and five ducks, left. They were all as low in flesh and spirits, as it was usual to find birds
that have been at sea fifty days, and the honest tar proposed turning them all adrift on the
reef, to make their own living in the best way they could.

Now and then a little food might be put in their way, but let them have a chance for their lives.
Mark assented at once, and the coops were opened. Each fowl was carried to the taffrail, and tossed
into the air, when it flew down upon the reef, a distance of a couple of hundred feet, almost
as a matter of course. Glad enough were the poor things to be thus liberated. To Mark's surprise,
no sooner did they reach the reef, than to work they went, and commenced
picking up something with the greatest avidity, as if let loose in
the best supplied poultry-yard. Confident there was nothing for even a
hen to glean on the rocks when he left there, the young man could
not account for this, until turning his eyes inboard, he saw the ducks
doing the same thing on deck.

Examining the food of these last-mentioned animals, he found there were a great number of minute
mucilaginous particles on the deck, which no doubt had descended with the late rain, and which all the birds,
as well as the hogs, seemed eager to devour. Here, then, was a supply, though a short-lived
one, of a manna suited to those creatures, which might render them happy for a few hours, at least.
Bob caught the ducks, and tossed them overboard, when they floundered about and enjoyed themselves
in a way that communicated a certain pleasure even to the desolate and shipwrecked men who had
set them at liberty.

Nothing with life now remained in the ship but the goat, and Mark thought it best not to turn
her ashore until they had greater facilities for getting the necessary food to her than the dingui
afforded. As she was not likely to breed, there was no great use in keeping this animal at all,
to say nothing of the means of feeding her, for any length of time; but Mark was unwilling
to take her life, since Providence had brought them all to that place
in company.

Then he thought she might be a pretty object leaping about the cliffs
of the crater, giving the island a more lively and inhabited appearance,
though he foresaw she might prove very destructive to his plantations,
did his vegetables grow.

As there was time enough to decide on her final fate, it was finally settled she should be put
ashore, and have a comfortable fortnight, even though condemned to die at the end of that brief
period. On landing, every hole in the face of the cliff was found filled with fresh water. Betts
was of opinion that the water-casks might all be filled with the water which was thus collected,
the fluid having seemingly all flowed into these receptacles, while little had gone into the sea.
This was encouraging for the future, at any rate; the want of water,
previously to this shower, appearing to Mark to be a more probable
occurrence than the want of food.

The sea might furnish the last, on an emergency, while it could do nothing with the first. But
the manner in which the ducks were enjoying themselves, in these fresh pools, can scarcely be
imagined! As Mark stood looking at them, a doubt first suggested itself to his mind concerning the
propriety of men's doing anything that ran counter to their instincts, with any of the creatures
of God. Pet-birds in cages, birds that were created to fly, had always been disagreeable to
him; nor did he conceive it to be any answer to say that they were
born in cages, and had never known liberty. They were created with
an instinct for flight, and intense must be their longings to indulge
in the power which nature had bestowed on them.

In the cage in which he now found himself, though he could run, walk, leap, swim, or do aught
that nature designed him to do, in the way of mere animal exploits, young Mark felt how bitter
were the privations he was condemned to suffer. The rain had certainly done no harm, as yet,
to the planting. All the hills were entire, as Mark and Bob had left them, though well saturated
with water. In a few, there might be even too much of the element, perhaps, but Mark observed that
a tropical sun would soon remove that objection. His great apprehension was that he had commenced
his gardening too late, and that the dry weather might set in too soon for the good of his vegetables;
if any of them, indeed, ever came up at all. Here was one good soaking
secured, at all events; and, knowing the power of a tropical sun,
Mark was of opinion that the fate of the great experiment he had
tried would soon be known.

Could he succeed in producing vegetation among the débris of the crater, he and Bob might find
the means of subsistence during their natural lives; but, should that resource fail them, all their hopes
would depend on being able to effect their escape in a craft of their own construction. In no
case, however, but that of the direst necessity, did Mark contemplate
the abandonment of his plan for getting back to the inhabited world,
his country, and his bride!

That night our mariners had a sounder sleep than they had yet been blest
with since the loss of their shipmates, and the accident to the vessel
itself.

The two following days they passed in securing the ship. Bob actually
made a very respectable catamaran, or raft, out of the spare spars,
sawing the topmasts and lower yards in two, for that purpose, and
fastening them together with ingenuity and strength, by means of
lashings.

But Mark hit upon an expedient for getting the two kedges ashore, that prevented the necessity of
having recourse to the raft on that occasion. These kedges lay on the poop, where they were habitually
kept, and two men had no great difficulty in getting them over the stern, suspended by stoppers.
Now Mark had ascertained that the rock of the Reef rose like a wall, being volcanic, like all
the rest of the formation, and that the ship could float almost anywhere alongside of it. Aided
by the rake of the stern of an old-fashioned Philadelphia-built ship, nothing was easier than
to veer upon the cable, let the vessel drop in to the island, until the kedges actually hung
over the rocks, and then lower the last down. All this was done, and the raft was reserved for other
purposes. Notwithstanding the facility with which the kedges were
got ashore, it took Mark and Bob quite half a day to plant them in
the rock precisely where they were wanted.

When this was accomplished, however, it was so effectually done as to render the hold even greater
than that of the sheet-anchor. Venters had it in him to kill
these men as if they were skunk-bitten coyotes, but also he had restraint enough to keep from
shooting one of Jane's beloved Arabians.

No great distance was covered, however, before Bells swerved to the left, out of line with
Black Star and Night. Then Venters, aiming high and waiting for the pause between Wrangle's
great strides, began to take snap shots at the rustler. The fleeing rider presented a broad
target for a rifle, but he was moving swiftly forward and bobbing up and down. Moreover, shooting
from Wrangle's back was shooting from a thunderbolt. And added to that was the danger of a
low-placed bullet taking effect on Bells. Yet, despite these considerations, making the shot
exceedingly difficult, Venters's confidence, like his implacability, saw a speedy and fatal
termination of that rustler's race. On the sixth shot the rustler threw up his arms and took
a flying tumble off his horse. He rolled over and over, hunched himself to a half-erect position,
fell, and then dragged himself into the sage. As Venters went thundering by he peered keenly
into the sage, but caught no sign of the man. Bells ran a few hundred yards, slowed up, and
had stopped when Wrangle passed him.

Again Venters began slipping fresh cartridges into the magazine of his rifle, and his hand
was so sure and steady that he did not drop a single cartridge. With the eye of a rider and
the judgment of a marksman he once more measured the distance between him and Jerry Card. Wrangle
had gained, bringing him into rifle range. Venters was hard put to it now not to shoot, but
thought it better to withhold his fire. Jerry, who, in anticipation of a running fusillade,
had huddled himself into a little twisted ball on Black Star's neck, now surmising that this
pursuer would make sure of not wounding one of the blacks, rose to his natural seat in the saddle.

In his mind perhaps, as certainly as in Venters's, this moment was the beginning of the real race.

Venters leaned forward to put his hand on Wrangle's neck, then backward to put it on his flank.
Under the shaggy, dusty hair trembled and vibrated and rippled a wonderful muscular activity.
But Wrangle's flesh was still cold. What a cold-blooded brute thought Venters, and felt in
him a love for the horse he had never given to any other. It would not have been humanly possible
for any rider, even though clutched by hate or revenge or a passion to save a loved one or
fear of his own life, to be astride the sorrel to swing with his swing, to see his magnificent
stride and hear the rapid thunder of his hoofs, to ride him in that race and not glory in the ride.

So, with his passion to kill still keen and unabated, Venters lived out that ride, and drank
a rider's sage-sweet cup of wildness to the dregs.

When Wrangle's long mane, lashing in the wind, stung Venters in the cheek, the sting added
a beat to his flying pulse. He bent a downward glance to try to see Wrangle's actual stride,
and saw only twinkling, darting streaks and the white rush of the trail. He watched the sorrel's
savage head, pointed level, his mouth still closed and dry, but his nostrils distended as if
he were snorting unseen fire. Wrangle was the horse for a race with death. Upon each side Venters
saw the sage merged into a sailing, colorless wall. In front sloped the lay of ground with
its purple breadth split by the white trail. The wind, blowing with heavy, steady blast into
his face, sickened him with enduring, sweet odor, and filled his ears with a hollow, rushing roar.

Then for the hundredth time he measured the width of space separating him from Jerry Card.
Wrangle had ceased to gain. The blacks were proving their fleetness. Venters watched Jerry
Card, admiring the little rider's horsemanship. He had the incomparable seat of the upland
rider, born in the saddle. It struck Venters that Card had changed his position, or the position
of the horses. Presently Venters remembered positively that Jerry had been leading Night on
the right-hand side of the trail. The racer was now on the side to the left. No--it was Black
Star. But, Venters argued in amaze, Jerry had been mounted on Black Star. Another clearer,
keener gaze assured Venters that Black Star was really riderless. Night now carried Jerry Card.

"He's changed from one to the other!" ejaculated Venters, realizing the astounding feat with
unstinted admiration. "Changed at full speed! Jerry Card, that's what you've done unless I'm
drunk on the smell of sage. But I've got to see the trick before I believe it."

Thenceforth, while Wrangle sped on, Venters glued his eyes to the little rider. Jerry Card
rode as only he could ride. Of all the daring horsemen of the uplands, Jerry was the one rider
fitted to bring out the greatness of the blacks in that long race. He had them on a dead run,
but not yet at the last strained and killing pace. From time to time he glanced backward, as
a wise general in retreat calculating his chances and the power and speed of pursuers, and
the moment for the last desperate burst. No doubt, Card, with his life at stake, gloried in
that race, perhaps more wildly than Venters. For he had been born to the sage and the saddle
and the wild. He was more than half horse. Not until the last call--the sudden up-flashing
instinct of self-preservation--would he lose his skill and judgment and nerve and the spirit
of that race. Venters seemed to read Jerry's mind. That little crime-stained rider was actually
thinking of his horses, husbanding their speed, handling them with knowledge of years, glorying
in their beautiful, swift, racing stride, and wanting them to win the race when his own life
hung suspended in quivering balance. Again Jerry whirled in his saddle and the sun flashed
red on his face. Turning, he drew Black Star closer and closer toward Night, till they ran
side by side, as one horse. Then Card raised himself in the saddle, slipped out of the stirrups,
and, somehow twisting himself, leaped upon Black Star. He did not even lose the swing of the
horse. Like a leech he was there in the other saddle, and as the horses separated, his right
foot, that had been apparently doubled under him, shot down to catch the stirrup. The grace
and dexterity and daring of that rider's act won something more than admiration from Venters.

For the distance of a mile Jerry rode Black Star and then changed back to Night. But all Jerry's
skill and the running of the blacks could avail little more against the sorrel.

Venters peered far ahead, studying the lay of the land. Straightaway for five miles the trail
stretched, and then it disappeared in hummocky ground. To the right, some few rods, Venters
saw a break in the sage, and this was the rim of Deception Pass. Across the dark cleft gleamed
the red of the opposite wall. Venters imagined that the trail went down into the Pass somewhere
north of those ridges. And he realized that he must and would overtake Jerry Card in this straight
course of five miles.

Cruelly he struck his spurs into Wrangle's flanks. A light touch of spur was sufficient to
make Wrangle plunge. And now, with a ringing, wild snort, he seemed to double up in muscular
convulsions and to shoot forward with an impetus that almost unseated Venters. The sage blurred
by, the trail flashed by, and the wind robbed him of breath and hearing. Jerry Card turned
once more. And the way he shifted to Black Star showed he had to make his last desperate running.
Venters aimed to the side of the trail and sent a bullet puffing the dust beyond Jerry. Venters
hoped to frighten the rider and get him to take to the sage. But Jerry returned the shot, and
his ball struck dangerously close in the dust at Wrangle's flying feet. Venters held his fire
then, while the rider emptied his revolver. For a mile, with Black Star leaving Night behind
and doing his utmost, Wrangle did not gain; for another mile he gained little, if at all. In
the third he caught up with the now galloping Night and began to gain rapidly on the other black.

Only a hundred yards now stretched between Black Star and Wrangle. The giant sorrel thundered
on--and on--and on. In every yard he gained a foot. He was whistling through his nostrils,
wringing wet, flying lather, and as hot as fire. Savage as ever, strong as ever, fast as ever,
but each tremendous stride jarred Venters out of the saddle! Wrangle's power and spirit and
momentum had begun to run him off his legs. Wrangle's great race was nearly won--and run. Venters
seemed to see the expanse before him as a vast, sheeted, purple plain sliding under him. Black
Star moved in it as a blur. The rider, Jerry Card, appeared a mere dot bobbing dimly. Wrangle
thundered on--on--on! Venters felt the increase in quivering, straining shock after every leap.
Flecks of foam flew into Venters's eyes, burning him, making him see all the sage as red. But
in that red haze he saw, or seemed to see, Black Star suddenly riderless and with broken gait.
Wrangle thundered on to change his pace with a violent break. Then Venters pulled him hard.
From run to gallop, gallop to canter, canter to trot, trot to walk, and walk to stop, the great
sorrel ended his race.

Venters looked back. Black Star stood riderless in the trail. Jerry Card had taken to the sage.
Far up the white trail Night came trotting faithfully down. Venters leaped off, still half
blind, reeling dizzily. In a moment he had recovered sufficiently to have a care for Wrangle.
Rapidly he took off the saddle and bridle. The sorrel was reeking, heaving, whistling, shaking.
But he had still the strength to stand, and for him Venters had no fears.

As Venters ran back to Black Star he saw the horse stagger on shaking legs into the sage and
go down in a heap. Upon reaching him Venters removed the saddle and bridle. Black Star had
been killed on his legs, Venters thought. He had no hope for the stricken horse. Black Star
lay flat, covered with bloody froth, mouth wide, tongue hanging, eyes glaring, and all his
beautiful body in convulsions.

Unable to stay there to see Jane's favorite racer die, Venters hurried up the trail to meet
the other black. On the way he kept a sharp lookout for Jerry Card. Venters imagined the rider
would keep well out of range of the rifle, but, as he would be lost on the sage without a horse,
not improbably he would linger in the vicinity on the chance of getting back one of the blacks.
Night soon came trotting up, hot and wet and run out. Venters led him down near the others,
and unsaddling him, let him loose to rest. Night wearily lay down in the dust and rolled, proving
himself not yet spent.

Then Venters sat down to rest and think. Whatever the risk, he was compelled to stay where
he was, or comparatively near, for the night. The horses must rest and drink. He must find
water. He was now seventy miles from Cottonwoods, and, he believed, close to the canyon where
the cattle trail must surely turn off and go down into the Pass. After a while he rose to survey
the valley.

He was very near to the ragged edge of a deep canyon into which the trail turned. The ground
lay in uneven ridges divided by washes, and these sloped into the canyon. Following the canyon
line, he saw where its rim was broken by other intersecting canyons, and farther down red walls
and yellow cliffs leading toward a deep blue cleft that he made sure was Deception Pass. Walking
out a few rods to a promontory, he found where the trail went down. The descent was gradual,
along a stone-walled trail, and Venters felt sure that this was the place where Oldring drove
cattle into the Pass. There was, however, no indication at all that he ever had driven cattle
out at this point. Oldring had many holes to his burrow.

In searching round in the little hollows Venters, much to his relief, found water. He composed
himself to rest and eat some bread and meat, while he waited for a sufficient time to elapse
so that he could safely give the horses a drink. He judged the hour to be somewhere around
noon. Wrangle lay down to rest and Night followed suit. So long as they were down Venters intended
to make no move. The longer they rested the better, and the safer it would be to give them
water. By and by he forced himself to go over to where Black Star lay, expecting to find him
dead. Instead he found the racer partially if not wholly recovered. There was recognition,
even fire, in his big black eyes. Venters was overjoyed. He sat by the black for a long time.
Black Star presently labored to his feet with a heave and a groan, shook himself, and snorted
for water. Venters repaired to the little pool he had found, filled his sombrero, and gave
the racer a drink. Black Star gulped it at one draught, as if it were but a drop, and pushed
his nose into the hat and snorted for more. Venters now led Night down to drink, and after
a further time Black Star also. Then the blacks began to graze.

The sorrel had wandered off down the sage between the trail and the canyon. Once or twice he
disappeared in little swales. Finally Venters concluded Wrangle had grazed far enough, and,
taking his lasso, he went to fetch him back. In crossing from one ridge to another he saw where
the horse had made muddy a pool of water. It occurred to Venters then that Wrangle had drunk
his fill, and did not seem the worse for it, and might be anything but easy to catch. And,
true enough, he could not come within roping reach of the sorrel. He tried for an hour, and
gave up in disgust. Wrangle did not seem so wild as simply perverse. In a quandary Venters
returned to the other horses, hoping much, yet doubting more, that when Wrangle had grazed
to suit himself he might be caught.

As the afternoon wore away Venters's concern diminished, yet he kept close watch on the blacks
and the trail and the sage. There was no telling of what Jerry Card might be capable. Venters
sullenly acquiesced to the idea that the rider had been too quick and too shrewd for him. Strangely
and doggedly, however, Venters clung to his foreboding of Card's downfall.

The wind died away; the red sun topped the far distant western rise of slope; and the long,
creeping purple shadows lengthened. The rims of the canyons gleamed crimson and the deep clefts
appeared to belch forth blue smoke. Silence enfolded the scene.

It was broken by a horrid, long-drawn scream of a horse and the thudding of heavy hoofs. Venters
sprang erect and wheeled south. Along the canyon rim, near the edge, came Wrangle, once more
in thundering flight.

Venters gasped in amazement. Had the wild sorrel gone mad? His head was high and twisted, in
a most singular position for a running horse. Suddenly Venters descried a frog-like shape clinging
to Wrangle's neck. Jerry Card! Somehow he had straddled Wrangle and now stuck like a huge burr.
But it was his strange position and the sorrel's wild scream that shook Venters's nerves. Wrangle
was pounding toward the turn where the trail went down. He plunged onward like a blind horse.
More than one of his leaps took him to the very edge of the precipice.

Jerry Card was bent forward with his teeth fast in the front of Wrangle's nose! Venters saw
it, and there flashed over him a memory of this trick of a few desperate riders. He even thought
of one rider who had worn off his teeth in this terrible hold to break or control desperate
horses. Wrangle had indeed gone mad. The marvel was what guided him. Was it the half-brute,
the more than half-horse instinct of Jerry Card? Whatever the mystery, it was true. And in
a few more rods Jerry would have the sorrel turning into the trail leading down into the canyon.

"No--Jerry!" whispered Venters, stepping forward and throwing up the rifle. He tried to catch
the little humped, frog-like shape over the sights. It was moving too fast; it was too small.
Yet Venters shot once... twice... the third time... four times... five! all wasted shots and
precious seconds!

With a deep-muttered curse Venters caught Wrangle through the sights and pulled the trigger.
Plainly he heard the bullet thud. Wrangle uttered a horrible strangling sound. In swift death
action he whirled, and with one last splendid leap he cleared the canyon rim. And he whirled
downward with the little frog-like shape clinging to his neck!

There was a pause which seemed never ending, a shock, and an instant s silence.

Then up rolled a heavy crash, a long roar of sliding rocks dying away in distant echo, then
silence unbroken.

Wrangle's race was run.

CHAPTER XVIII. OLDRING'S KNELL

Some forty hours or more later Venters created a commotion in Cottonwoods by riding down the
main street on Black Star and leading Bells and Night. He had come upon Bells grazing near
the body of a dead rustler, the only incident of his quick ride into the village.

Nothing was farther from Venters's mind than bravado. No thought came to him of the defiance
and boldness of riding Jane Withersteen's racers straight into the arch-plotter's stronghold.
He wanted men to see the famous Arabians; he wanted men to see them dirty and dusty, bearing
all the signs of having been driven to their limit; he wanted men to see and to know that the
thieves who had ridden them out into the sage had not ridden them back. Venters had come for
that and for more--he wanted to meet Tull face to face; if not Tull, then Dyer; if not Dyer,
then anyone in the secret of these master conspirators. Such was Venters's passion. The meeting
with the rustlers, the unprovoked attack upon him, the spilling of blood, the recognition of
Jerry Card and the horses, the race, and that last plunge of mad Wrangle--all these things,
fuel on fuel to the smoldering fire, had kindled and swelled and leaped into living flame.
He could have shot Dyer in the midst of his religious services at the altar; he could have
killed Tull in front of wives and babes.

He walked the three racers down the broad, green-bordered village road. He heard the murmur
of running water from Amber Spring. Bitter waters for Jane Withersteen! Men and women stopped
to gaze at him and the horses. All knew him; all knew the blacks and the bay. As well as if
it had been spoken, Venters read in the faces of men the intelligence that Jane Withersteen's
Arabians had been known to have been stolen. Venters reined in and halted before Dyer's residence.
It was a low, long, stone structure resembling Withersteen House. The spacious front yard was
green and luxuriant with grass and flowers; gravel walks led to the huge porch; a well-trimmed
hedge of purple sage separated the yard from the church grounds; birds sang in the trees; water
flowed musically along the walks; and there were glad, careless shouts of children. For Venters
the beauty of this home, and the serenity and its apparent happiness, all turned red and black.
For Venters a shade overspread the lawn, the flowers, the old vine-clad stone house. In the
music of the singing birds, in the murmur of the running water, he heard an ominous sound.
Quiet beauty--sweet music--innocent laughter! By what monstrous abortion of fate did these
abide in the shadow of Dyer?

Venters rode on and stopped before Tull's cottage. Women stared at him with white faces and
then flew from the porch. Tull himself appeared at the door, bent low, craning his neck. His
dark face flashed out of sight; the door banged; a heavy bar dropped with a hollow sound.

Then Venters shook Black Star's bridle, and, sharply trotting, led the other horses to the
center of the village. Here at the intersecting streets and in front of the stores he halted
once more. The usual lounging atmosphere of that prominent corner was not now in evidence.
Riders and ranchers and villagers broke up what must have been absorbing conversation. There
was a rush of many feet, and then the walk was lined with faces.

Venters's glance swept down the line of silent stone-faced men. He recognized many riders and
villagers, but none of those he had hoped to meet. There was no expression in the faces turned
toward him. All of them knew him, most were inimical, but there were few who were not burning
with curiosity and wonder in regard to the return of Jane Withersteen's racers. Yet all were
silent. Here were the familiar characteristics--masked feeling--strange secretiveness--expressionless
expression of mystery and hidden power.

"Has anybody here seen Jerry Card?" queried Venters, in a loud voice.

In reply there came not a word, not a nod or shake of head, not so much as dropping eye or
twitching lip--nothing but a quiet, stony stare.

"Been under the knife? You've a fine knife-wielder here--one Tull, I believe!... Maybe you've
all had your tongues cut out?"

This passionate sarcasm of Venters brought no response, and the stony calm was as oil on the
fire within him.

"I see some of you pack guns, too!" he added, in biting scorn. In the long, tense pause, strung
keenly as a tight wire, he sat motionless on Black Star. "All right," he went on. "Then let
some of you take this message to Tull. Tell him I've seen Jerry Card! ... Tell him Jerry Card
will never return!"

Thereupon, in the same dead calm, Venters backed Black Star away from the curb, into the street,
and out of range. He was ready now to ride up to Withersteen House and turn the racers over
to Jane.

"Hello, Venters!" a familiar voice cried, hoarsely, and he saw a man running toward him. It
was the rider Judkins who came up and gripped Venters's hand. "Venters, I could hev dropped
when I seen them hosses. But thet sight ain't a marker to the looks of you. What's wrong? Hev
you gone crazy? You must be crazy to ride in here this way--with them hosses--talkie' thet
way about Tull en' Jerry Card."

"Jud, I'm not crazy--only mad clean through," replied Venters.

"Mad, now, Bern, I'm glad to hear some of your old self in your voice. Fer when you come up
you looked like the corpse of a dead rider with fire fer eyes. You hed thet crowd too stiff
fer throwin' guns. Come, we've got to hev a talk. Let's go up the lane. We ain't much safe here."

Judkins mounted Bells and rode with Venters up to the cottonwood grove. Here they dismounted
and went among the trees.

"Let's hear from you first," said Judkins. "You fetched back them hosses. Thet is the trick.
An', of course, you got Jerry the same as you got Horne."

"Horne!"

"Sure. He was found dead yesterday all chewed by coyotes, en' he'd been shot plumb center."

"Where was he found?"

"At the split down the trail--you know where Oldring's cattle trail runs off north from the
trail to the pass."

"That's where I met Jerry and the rustlers. What was Horne doing with them? I thought Horne
was an honest cattle-man."

"Lord--Bern, don't ask me thet! I'm all muddled now tryin' to figure things."

Venters told of the fight and the race with Jerry Card and its tragic conclusion.

"I knowed it! I knowed all along that Wrangle was the best hoss!" exclaimed Judkins, with his
lean face working and his eyes lighting. "Thet was a race! Lord, I'd like to hev seen Wrangle
jump the cliff with Jerry. An' thet was good-by to the grandest hoss an' rider ever on the
sage!... But, Bern, after you got the hosses why'd you want to bolt right in Tull's face?"

"I want him to know. An' if I can get to him I'll--"

"You can't get near Tull," interrupted Judkins. "Thet vigilante bunch hev taken to bein' bodyguard
for Tull an' Dyer, too."

"Hasn't Lassiter made a break yet?" inquired Venters, curiously.

"Naw!" replied Judkins, scornfully. "Jane turned his head. He's mad in love over her--follers
her like a dog. He ain't no more Lassiter! He's lost his nerve, he doesn't look like the same
feller. It's village talk. Everybody knows it. He hasn't thrown a gun, an' he won't!"

"Jud, I'll bet he does," replied Venters, earnestly. "Remember what I say. This Lassiter is
something more than a gun-man. Jud, he's big--he's great!... I feel that in him. God help Tull
and Dyer when Lassiter does go after them. For horses and riders and stone walls won't save them."

"Wal, hev it your way, Bern. I hope you're right. Nat'rully I've been some sore on Lassiter
fer gittin' soft. But I ain't denyin' his nerve, or whatever's great in him thet sort of paralyzes
people. No later 'n this mornin' I seen him saunterin' down the lane, quiet an' slow. An' like
his guns he comes black--black, thet's Lassiter. Wal, the crowd on the corner never batted
an eye, en' I'll gamble my hoss thet there wasn't one who hed a heartbeat till Lassiter got
by. He went in Snell's saloon, an' as there wasn't no gun play I had to go in, too. An' there,
darn my pictures, if Lassiter wasn't standin' to the bar, drinking en' talkin' with Oldrin'."

"Oldring!" whispered Venters. His voice, as all fire and pulse within him, seemed to freeze.

"Let go my arm!" exclaimed Judkins. "Thet's my bad arm. Sure it was Oldrin'. What the hell's
wrong with you, anyway? Venters, I tell you somethin's wrong. You're whiter 'n a sheet. You
can't be scared of the rustler. I don't believe you've got a scare in you. Wal, now, jest let
me talk. You know I like to talk, an' if I'm slow I allus git there sometime. As I said, Lassiter
was talkie' chummy with Oldrin'. There wasn't no hard feelin's. An' the gang wasn't payin'
no pertic'lar attention. But like a cat watchin' a mouse I hed my eyes on them two fellers.
It was strange to me, thet confab. I'm gittin' to think a lot, fer a feller who doesn't know
much. There's been some queer deals lately an' this seemed to me the queerest. These men stood
to the bar alone, an' so close their big gun-hilts butted together. I seen Oldrin' was some
surprised at first, an' Lassiter was cool as ice. They talked, an' presently at somethin' Lassiter
said the rustler bawled out a curse, an' then he jest fell up against the bar, an' sagged there.
The gang in the saloon looked around an' laughed, an' thet's about all. Finally Oldrin' turned,
and it was easy to see somethin' hed shook him. Yes, sir, thet big rustler--you know he's as
broad as he is long, an' the powerfulest build of a man--yes, sir, the nerve had been taken
out of him. Then, after a little, he began to talk an' said a lot to Lassiter, an' by an' by
it didn't take much of an eye to see thet Lassiter was gittin' hit hard. I never seen him anyway
but cooler 'n ice--till then. He seemed to be hit harder 'n Oldrin', only he didn't roar out
thet way. He jest kind of sunk in, an' looked an' looked, an' he didn't see a livin' soul in
thet saloon. Then he sort of come to, an' shakin' hands--mind you, shakin' hands with Oldrin'--he
went out. I couldn't help thinkin' how easy even a boy could hev dropped the great gun-man
then!... Wal, the rustler stood at the bar fer a long time, en' he was seein' things far off,
too; then he come to an' roared fer whisky, an' gulped a drink thet was big enough to drown me."

"Is Oldring here now?" whispered Venters. He could not speak above a whisper. Judkins's story
had been meaningless to him.

"He's at Snell's yet. Mark had unwittingly omitted to take any land-marks to his inlet, or strait.
He had no other means of finding it, therefore, than to discover a spot in which the line of white
was broken. This inlet, however, he remembered did not open at right angles to the coast, but
obliquely; and it was very possible to be within a hundred yards of it, and not see it. This fact,
our young sailor was not long in ascertaining; for standing in towards the point where he expected
to find the entrance, and going as close to the shore as he dared, he could see nothing of
the desired passage. For an hour did he search, passing to and fro, but without success. The idea
of remaining out in the open sea for the night, and to windward of
such an inhospitable coast, was anything but pleasant to Mark, and
he determined to stand to the northward, now, while it was day, and
look for some other entrance.

For four hours did Mark Woolston run along those dark rocks, whitened only by the spray of the
wide ocean, without perceiving a point at which a boat might even
land.

As he was now running off the wind, and had turned out his reef, he supposed he must have gone at
least five-and-twenty miles, if not thirty, in that time; and thus had he some means of judging
of the extent of his new territories. About five in the afternoon a cape, or headland, was
reached, when the coast suddenly trended to the westward. This, then, was the north-eastern
angle of the entire formation, and Mark named it Cape North-East. The boat was now jibed,
and ran off west, a little northerly, for another hour, keeping quite close in to the coast,
which was no longer dangerous as soon as the Cape was doubled. The seas broke upon the rocks,
as a matter of course; but there being a lee, it was only under the power of the ceaseless
undulations of the ocean. Even the force of the wind was now much less felt, the Bridget carrying
whole sail when hauled up, as Mark placed her several times, in order
to examine apparent inlets.

It
was getting to be too late to think of reaching home that night, for running in those unknown
channels after dark was not a desirable course for an explorer to adopt. Our young man, therefore,
limited his search to some place where he might lie until the return of light. It is true, the
lee formed by the rocks was now such as to enable him to remain outside, with safety, until
morning; but he preferred greatly to get within the islands, if possible, to trusting himself,
while asleep, to the mercy of the open ocean. Just as the sun was setting, leaving the evening
cool and pleasant, after the warmth of an exceedingly hot day, the boat doubled a piece of
low headland; and Mark had half made up his mind to get under its lee, and heave a grapnel
ashore in order to ride by his cable during the approaching night,
when an opening in the coast greeted his eyes.

It was just as he doubled the cape. This opening appeared to be a quarter of a mile in width,
and it had perfectly smooth water, a half-gunshot within its mouth.

The helm was put down, the sheets hauled aft, and the Bridget luffed into this creek, estuary, sound,
or harbour, whichever it might prove to be. For twenty minutes did Mark stand on through this
passage, when suddenly it expanded into a basin, or bay, of considerable extent. This was
at a distance of about a league within the coast.

This bay was a league long, and half a league in width, the boat
entering it close to its weather side.

A long and wide sandy beach offered on that side, and the young man
stood along it a short distance, until the sight of a spring induced
him to put his helm down.

The boat luffed short round, and came gently upon the beach. A grapnel was thrown on the sands,
and Mark leaped ashore.

The water proved to be sweet, cool, and every way delicious.

This was at least the twentieth spring which had been seen that day,
though it was the first of which the waters had been tasted.

This new-born beach had every appearance of having been exposed to the air a thousand years. The
sand was perfectly clean, and of a bright golden colour, and it was
well strewed with shells of the most magnificent colours and size.

The odour of their late tenants alone proclaimed the fact of their recent shipwreck. This,
however, was an evil that a single month would repair; and our sailor
determined to make another voyage to this bay, which he called Shell
Bay, in order to procure some of its treasures.

It was true he could not place them before the delighted eyes of Bridget, but he might arrange
them in his cabin, and fancy that she was gazing at their beauties. After drinking at the spring,
and supping on the rocks above, Mark arranged a mattress, provided for that purpose, in the boat,
and went to sleep.

Early next morning the Bridget was again under way, but not until her owner had both bathed and
broken his fast.

Bathe he did every morning throughout the year, and occasionally at night also. A day of exertion
usually ended with a bath, as did a night of sweet repose also.

In all these respects no one could be more fortunate. From the first, food had been abundant;
and now he possessed it in superfluity, including the wants of all
dependent on him.

Of clothes, also, he had an inexhaustible supply, a small portion of the cargo consisting of coarse
cotton jackets and trousers, with which to purchase sandal-wood. To these means, delicious
water was now added in inexhaustible quantities.

The late changes had given to Mark's possession territory sufficient to occupy him months,
even in exploring it thoroughly, as it was his purpose to do.

God was there, also, as he is everywhere. This our secluded man found to be a most precious consolation.
Again and again, each day, was he now in the practice of communing in spirit, directly with
his Creator; not in cold and unmeaning forms and commonplaces, but with such yearning of the
soul, and such feelings of love and reverence, as an active and living faith can alone, by the
aid of the Divine Spirit, awaken in the human breast.

After crossing Shell Bay, the Bridget continued on for a couple of hours, running south, westerly,
through a passage of a good width, until it met another channel, at a point which Mark at once
recognized as the Forks.

When at Point Fork, he had only to follow the track he had come the previous day, in order to arrive at
the Reef. The crater could be seen from the Forks, and there was consequently a beacon in sight,
to direct the adventurer, had he wanted such assistance; which he
did not, however, since he now recognized objects perfectly well as
he advanced, About ten o'clock he ran alongside of the ship, where
he found everything, as he had left it.

Lighting the fire, he put on food sufficient to last him for another cruise, and then went up into
the cross-trees in order to take a better look than he had yet obtained, of the state of things
to the southward.

By this time the vast, murky cloud that had so long overhung the new outlet of the volcano,
was dispersed. It was succeeded by one of ordinary size, in which the thread of smoke that arose
from the crater, terminated. Of course the surrounding atmosphere was clear, and nothing but
distance obstructed the view. The Peak was indeed a sublime sight, issuing, as it did, from
the ocean without any relief. Mark now began to think he had miscalculated its height, and
that it might be two thousand feet, instead of one, above the water. There it was, in all
its glory, blue and misty, but ragged and noble. The crater was clearly many miles beyond it,
the young man being satisfied, after this look, that he had not yet
seen its summit.

He also increased his distance from Vulcan's Peak, as he named the mountain, to ten leagues,
at least. After sitting in the cross-trees for fully an hour, gazing at this height with as
much pleasure as the connoisseur ever studied picture, or statue, the young man determined
to attempt a voyage to that place, in the Bridget. To him, such an expedition had the charm
of the novelty and change which a journey from country to town could
bring to the wearied worldling, who sighed for the enjoyment of his
old haunts, after a season passed in the ennui of his country-house.

It is true, great novelties had been presented to our solitary youth, by the great changes wrought
immediately in his neighbourhood, and they had now kept him for a week in a condition of high
excitement; but nothing they presented could equal the interest he felt in that distant mountain,
which had arisen so suddenly in a horizon that he had been accustomed to see bare of any object
but clouds, for near eighteen months.

That afternoon Mark made all his preparations for a voyage that he
felt might be one of great moment to him.

All the symptoms of convulsions in the earth, however, had ceased; even the rumbling sounds
which he had heard, or imagined, in the stillness of the night, being no longer audible. From
that source, therefore, he had no great apprehensions of danger; though there was a sort of
dread majesty in the exhibition of the power of nature that he had so lately witnessed, which
disposed him to approach the scene of its greatest effort with secret awe. So much did he think of
the morrow and its possible consequences, that he did not get asleep for two or three hours, though
he awoke in the morning unconscious of any want of rest. An hour
later, he was in his boat, and under way.

Mark had now to steer in an entirely new direction, believing, from what he had seen while aloft
the day before, that he could make his way out into the open ocean by proceeding a due south course.
In order to do this, and to get into the most promising-looking channel in that direction,
he was obliged to pass through the narrow strait that separated the Reef from the large range
of rock over which he had roamed the day succeeding the earthquake. Of course, the bridge was
removed, in order to allow the boat's mast to pass; but for this, Mark did not care. He had seen
his stock the previous evening, and saw that it wanted for nothing. Even the fowls had gone
across to the new territory, on exploring expeditions; and Kitty herself had left her sweet pastures
on the Summit, to see of what the world was made beyond her old range.

It is true she had made one journey in that quarter, in the company, of her master; but, one journey
no more satisfied her than it would have satisfied the curiosity
of any other female.

After passing the bridge, the boat entered a long narrow reach, that extended at least two
leagues, in nearly a direct line towards Vulcan's Peak. As it approached the end of this piece
of water, Mark saw that he must enter a bay of considerable extent; one, indeed, that was much
larger than any he had yet seen in his island, or, to speak more accurately, his group of islands.
On one side of this bay appeared a large piece of level land, or a plain, which Mark supposed,
might cover one or two thousand acres.

Its colour was so different from anything he had yet seen, that our young man was induced to
land, and to walk a short distance to examine it. On reaching its margin, it was found to be a very
shallow basin, of which the bottom was mud, with a foot or two of salt water still remaining, and
in which sea weed, some ten or twelve inches in thickness, was floating. It was almost possible
for Mark to walk on this weed, the green appearance of which induced him to name the place the
Prairie. Such a collection of weed could only have been owing to the currents, which must have
brought it into this basin, where it was probably retained even previously to the late eruption.
The presence of the deposit of mud, as well as the height of the surrounding rocks, many of which
were doubtless out of water previously to the phenomenon, went to
corroborate this opinion.

After working her way through a great many channels, some wide and
some narrow, some true and some false, the Bridget reached the southern
verge of the group, about noon.

Mark then supposed himself to be quite twenty miles from the Reef, and the Peak appeared very
little nearer than when he left it. This startled him on the score of distance; and, after meditating
on all his chances, the young man determined to pass the remainder of that day where he was,
in order to put to sea with as much daylight before him as possible. He desired also to explore
the coast and islands in that vicinity, in order to complete his survey of the cluster. He looked
for a convenient place to anchor his boat, accordingly, ate his dinner, and set out on foot
to explore, armed as usual with a fowling-piece.

In the first place, an outlet to the sea very different from that
on the eastern side of the group, was found here, on its southern.

The channel opened into a bay of some size, with an arm of rock reaching well off on the weather
side, so that no broken water was encountered in passing into or out of it, provided one kept
sufficiently clear of the point itself. As there was abundance of room, Mark saw he should
have no difficulty in getting out into open water, here, or in getting back again. What was
more, the arm, or promontory of rock just mentioned, had a hummock
near a hundred feet in height on its extremity, that answered admirably
for a land-mark.

Most of this hummock must have been above water previously to the late eruption, though it appeared
to our explorer, that all the visible land, as he proceeded south, was lifted higher and on
a gradually-increasing scale, as if the eruption had exerted its force at a certain point,
the new crater for instance, and raised the earth to the northward
of that point, on an inclined plane.

This might account, in a measure, for the altitude of the Peak, which was near the great crevice
that must have been left somewhere, unless materials on its opposite side had fallen to fill
it up again. Most of these views were merely speculative, though the fact of the greater elevation
of all the rocks, in this part of the group, over those further north,
was beyond dispute.

Thus the coast, here, was generally fifty or eighty feet high; whereas,
at the Reef, even now, the surface of the common rock was not much
more than twenty feet above the water.

The rise seemed to be gradual, moreover, which certainly favoured
this theory.

As a great deal of sand and mud had been brought up by the eruption,
there was no want of fresh water.

Mark found even a little brook, of as perfectly sweet a stream as he had ever tasted in America,
running into the little harbour where he had secured the boat.

He followed this stream two miles, ere he reached its source, or
sources; for it came from at least, a dozen copious springs, that
poured their tribute from a bed of clean sand several miles in length,
and which had every sign of having been bare for ages.

In saying this, however, it is not to be supposed that the signs, as to time, were very apparent
anywhere. Lava, known to have been ejected from the bowels of the earth thousands of years,
has just as fresh an appearance, to the ordinary observer, as that
which was thrown out ten years ago; and, had it not been for the deposits
of moist mud, the remains of fish, sea-weed that was still undecayed,
pools of salt water, and a few other peculiarities of the same sort,
Mark would have been puzzled to find any difference between the rocks
recently thrown up, and those which were formerly exposed to the air.

Even the mud was fast changing its appearance, cracking and drying under the sun of the tropics.
In a month or two, should as much rain as usual fall, it was probable
the sea-weed would be far gone in decay.

It was still early when our adventurer kneeled on the sand, near his boat, to hold his last
direct communication with his Creator, ere he slept. Those communications were now quite frequent
with Mark, it being no unusual thing for him to hold them when sailing
in his boat, on the deck of the ship, or in the soft salubrious air
of the Summit.

He slept none the less soundly for having commended his soul to God,
asking support against temptations, and forgiveness for past sins.

These prayers were usually very short.

More than half the time they were expressed in the compendious and
beautiful words given to man by Christ himself, the model and substance
of all petitions of this nature.

But the words were devoutly uttered, the heart keeping even pace
with them, and the soul fully submitting to their influence.

Mark arose, next morning, two hours before the light appeared, and at once left the group.
Time, was now important to him; for, while he anticipated the possibility of remaining under the
lee of the mountain during the succeeding night, he also anticipated the possibility of being
compelled to return. In a favourable time, with the wind a little free, five knots in the
hour was about the maximum of the boat's rate of sailing, though it was affected by the greater
or less height of the sea that was on.

When the waves ran heavily, the Bridget's low sails got becalmed
in the troughs, and she consequently lost much of her way.

On the whole, however, five knots might be set down as her average
speed, under the pressure of the ordinary trades, and with whole canvas,
and a little off the wind.

Close-hauled, she scarcely made more than three; while, with the wind on the quarter, she often went
seven, especially in smooth water.

The course steered was about a point to the westward of south, the
boat running altogether by compass, for the first two hours.

At the end of that time day returned and the dark, frowning Peak
itself became visible.

The sun had no sooner risen, than Mark felt satisfied with his boat's
performance.

Objects began to come out of the mass of the mountain, which no longer
appeared a pile of dark outline, without detail.

He expected this, and was even disappointed that his eyes could not
command more, for he now saw that he had materially underrated the
distance between the crater and the Peak, which must be nearer sixty
than fifty miles. He heard Oldring
whisper and saw him sway like a log and fall. Then a million bellowing, thundering voices--gunshots
of conscience, thunderbolts of remorse--dinned horribly in his ears. He had killed Bess's father.
Then a rushing wind filled his ears like a moan of wind in the cliffs, a knell indeed--Oldring's
knell.

He dropped to his knees and hid his face against Bess, and grasped her with the hands of a
drowning man.

"My God!... My God!... Oh, Bess!... Forgive me! Never mind what I've done--what I've thought.
But forgive me. I'll give you my life. I'll live for you. I'll love you. Oh, I do love you
as no man ever loved a woman. I want you to know--to remember that I fought a fight for you--however
blind I was. I thought--I thought--never mind what I thought--but I loved you--I asked you
to marry me. Let that--let me have that to hug to my heart. Oh, Bess, I was driven! And I might
have known! I could not rest nor sleep till I had this mystery solved. God! how things work out!"

"Bern, you're weak--trembling--you talk wildly," cried Bess. "You've overdone your strength.
There's nothing to forgive. There's no mystery except your love for me. You have come back to me!"

And she clasped his head tenderly in her arms and pressed it closely to her throbbing breast.

CHAPTER XIX. FAY

At the home of Jane Withersteen Little Fay was climbing Lassiter's knee.

"Does oo love me?" she asked.

Lassiter, who was as serious with Fay as he was gentle and loving, assured her in earnest and
elaborate speech that he was her devoted subject. Fay looked thoughtful and appeared to be
debating the duplicity of men or searching for a supreme test to prove this cavalier.

"Does oo love my new mower?" she asked, with bewildering suddenness.

Jane Withersteen laughed, and for the first time in many a day she felt a stir of her pulse
and warmth in her cheek.

It was a still drowsy summer of afternoon, and the three were sitting in the shade of the wooded
knoll that faced the sage-slope Little Fay's brief spell of unhappy longing for her mother--the
childish, mystic gloom--had passed, and now where Fay was there were prattle and laughter and
glee. She had emerged Iron sorrow to be the incarnation of joy and loveliness. She had growl
supernaturally sweet and beautiful. For Jane Withersteen the child was an answer to prayer,
a blessing, a possession infinitely more precious than all she had lost. For Lassiter, Jane
divined that little Fay had become a religion.

"Does oo love my new mower?" repeated Fay.

Lassiter's answer to this was a modest and sincere affirmative.

"Why don't oo marry my new mower an' be my favver?"

Of the thousands of questions put by little Fay to Lassiter the was the first he had been unable
to answer.

"Fay--Fay, don't ask questions like that," said Jane.

"Why?"

"Because," replied Jane. And she found it strangely embarrassing to meet the child's gaze.
It seemed to her that Fay's violet eyes looked through her with piercing wisdom.

"Oo love him, don't oo?"

"Dear child--run and play," said Jane, "but don't go too far. Don't go from this little hill."

Fay pranced off wildly, joyous over freedom that had not been granted her for weeks.

"Jane, why are children more sincere than grown-up persons?" asked Lassiter.

"Are they?"

"I reckon so. Little Fay there--she sees things as they appear on the face. An Indian does
that. So does a dog. These people are recognized as citizens and are voters. They have a neat chapel,
a native pastor, sustain admirable prayer-meetings-- a woman's prayer-meeting
among them-- and live good reputable lives.

In this spot and at Santee Agency the Indian is seen at his best.

Life and property are respected, the land is fairly tilled, the homes are happy, intelligence
is general, and religion is the universal motive-power.

On the west side of the Missouri in Dakota lies the great Sioux Reservation, containing 8,000 Indians
at the Pine Ridge Agency, nearly 8,000 at the Rosebud Agency, 1,500 of the Lower Brule Indians,
3,000 along the Cheyenne River and northward, and nearly 4,000 on the Standing Rock Agency.
It was my fortune to visit a number of villages on the Cheyenne, Morrow, and Grand Rivers and at
Standing Rock.

The Indians at these places are all wild-- that is, still wear blankets, breech-cloths, and
leggings, feathers and geegaws, do little toward cultivating the land, and are ignorant heathen.
A Sabbath in a village on the Cheyenne showed what wild Indians were. The morning opened with
two men disguised in buffalo-skins with the heads on, running through the village. They had had
a dream, were supposed to be possessed of spirits, and as they chased the villagers all ran
from them, affrighted lest some witchcraft be wrought by them. Presently the church-bell rang
at the missionary's tent, and fifty Indians came in, gaudy in paints and wampum, ornaments,
and dangling queues tied up with mink-skins, the chief wearing a broken down beaver hat with a
faded weed upon it, and the rest supplied with fans of eagles'wings, pipes, and other accompaniments
of Indian gentlemen. They listened with occasional grunts of approval during worship, and
filed out at the close with a cordial handshake, one remaining, named
from his height Touch-the-Clouds, to say that he felt the importance
of this new way, and that he wished for himself and his people schools
and churches.

This was encouraging, but as the evening came on there set up a hideous noise; a dance was in progress,
and all night long a relay of three Indians kept up the hideous and monotonous tom-tom of
their kettle-drums, while the shrill scream of the women pierced
the air.

The next morning were things equally painful.

A young Indian woman, with four children to care for, put away by
her cruel husband for another wife, came to beg the missionary's influence
to secure for her Government rations.

A tent hard by was visited, where the family, in accordance with Indian superstitions, were gathering,
and had been for a year or two, all sorts of valuable articles for presents in honor of some
deceased member of the household, intending by-and-by to distribute
all these things, leaving themselves beggared.

And last of all, in a neighboring village were seen three men and
a boy, clad with a few feathers in their hair, and yellow ochre on
their bodies, going through mummeries in the sight of a large company.

They were "making mystery," whatever that may be.

At Standing Rock were Sitting Bull and Chief Gall, with their bands.

Not many years ago they had been on the war path; they were concerned
in the Custer massacre; but now they are in wholesome awe of the Government
and dependent on Government favor for daily bread.

Consequently they are orderly and peaceable, and though a few years since it would have been
dangerous for three unarmed men to pass through their reservations, it was perfectly safe last
summer for a missionary speaking the Indian language and his friends.

A third class of Indians was found at Fort Berthold.

This reservation is a hundred miles north of Bismarck, Dakota Territory, on the east side
of the Missouri. There are three small tribes combined in one large village for protection
against their ancient enemies the Sioux, namely, the Arickarees, the Mandans, and the Gros Ventres.
These Indians have latterly made great advances in civilization.

They have 800 acres under cultivation, all looking admirably and
well fenced in, and they are taking great pride in their work and
asking for more land to cultivate.

They have comfortable homes, or "lodges," as they are called, made in an octagonal form, of logs
completely covered with earth. They are eagerly obtaining from the Government such comforts
of civilization as they can-- reapers, cooking-stoves, baking-powder,
and the like.

And yet this people display some of the grossest elements of savagery.
Polygamy is common. 'Pears
to me that you've thrown away your big heart on love--love of religion an' duty an' churchmen,
an' riders an' poor families an' poor children! Yet you can't see what love is--how it changes
a person!... Listen, an' in tellin' you Milly Erne's story I'll show you how love changed her.

"Milly an' me was children when our family moved from Missouri to Texas, an' we growed up in
Texas ways same as if we'd been born there. We had been poor, an' there we prospered. In time
the little village where we went became a town, an' strangers an' new families kept movin'
in. Milly was the belle them days. I can see her now, a little girl no bigger 'n a bird, an'
as pretty. She had the finest eyes, dark blue-black when she was excited, an' beautiful all
the time. You remember Milly's eyes! An' she had light-brown hair with streaks of gold, an'
a mouth that every feller wanted to kiss.

"An' about the time Milly was the prettiest an' the sweetest, along came a young minister who
began to ride some of a race with the other fellers for Milly. An' he won. Milly had always
been strong on religion, an' when she met Frank Erne she went in heart an' soul for the salvation
of souls. Fact was, Milly, through study of the Bible an' attendin' church an' revivals, went
a little out of her head. It didn't worry the old folks none, an' the only worry to me was
Milly's everlastin' prayin' an' workin' to save my soul. She never converted me, but we was
the best of comrades, an' I reckon no brother an' sister ever loved each other better. Well,
Frank Erne an me hit up a great friendship. He was a strappin' feller, good to look at, an'
had the most pleasin' ways. His religion never bothered me, for he could hunt an' fish an'
ride an' be a good feller. After buffalo once, he come pretty near to savin' my life. We got
to be thick as brothers, an' he was the only man I ever seen who I thought was good enough
for Milly. An' the day they were married I got drunk for the only time in my life.

"Soon after that I left home--it seems Milly was the only one who could keep me home--an' I
went to the bad, as to prosperin' I saw some pretty hard life in the Pan Handle, an' then I
went North. In them days Kansas an' Nebraska was as bad, come to think of it, as these days
right here on the border of Utah. I got to be pretty handy with guns. An' there wasn't many
riders as could beat me ridin'. An' I can say all modest-like that I never seen the white man
who could track a hoss or a steer or a man with me. Afore I knowed it two years slipped by,
an' all at once I got homesick, en' purled a bridle south.

"Things at home had changed. I never got over that homecomin'. Mother was dead an' in her grave.
Father was a silent, broken man, killed already on his feet. Frank Erne was a ghost of his
old self, through with workin', through with preachin', almost through with livin', an' Milly
was gone!... It was a long time before I got the story. Father had no mind left, an' Frank
Erne was afraid to talk. So I had to pick up whet 'd happened from different people.

"It 'pears that soon after I left home another preacher come to the little town. An' he an'
Frank become rivals. This feller was different from Frank. He preached some other kind of religion,
and he was quick an' passionate, where Frank was slow an' mild. He went after people, women
specially. In looks he couldn't compare to Frank Erne, but he had power over women. He had
a voice, an' he talked an' talked an' preached an' preached. Milly fell under his influence..
She became mightily interested in his religion. Frank had patience with her, as was his way,
an' let her be as interested as she liked. All religions were devoted to one God, he said,
an' it wouldn't hurt Milly none to study a different point of view. So the new preacher often
called on Milly, an' sometimes in Frank's absence. Frank was a cattle-man between Sundays.

"Along about this time an incident come off that I couldn't get much light on. A stranger come
to town, an' was seen with the preacher. This stranger was a big man with an eye like blue
ice, an' a beard of gold. He had money, an' he 'peered a man of mystery, an' the town went
to buzzin' when he disappeared about the same time as a young woman known to be mightily interested
in the new preacher's religion. Then, presently, along comes a man from somewheres in Illinois,
en' he up an' spots this preacher as a famous Mormon proselyter. That riled Frank Erne as nothin'
ever before, an' from rivals they come to be bitter enemies. An' it ended in Frank goin' to
the meetin'-house where Milly was listenin', en' before her en' everybody else he called that
preacher--called him, well, almost as hard as Venters called Tull here sometime back. An' Frank
followed up that call with a hosswhippin', en' he drove the proselyter out of town.

"People noticed, so 'twas said, that Milly's sweet disposition changed. Some said it was because
she would soon become a mother, en' others said she was pinin' after the new religion. An'
there was women who said right out that she was pinin' after the Mormon. Anyway, one mornin'
Frank rode in from one of his trips, to find Milly gone. He had no real near neighbors--livin'
a little out of town--but those who was nearest said a wagon had gone by in the night, an'
they though it stopped at her door. Well, tracks always tell, an' there was the wagon tracks
an' hoss tracks an' man tracks. The news spread like wildfire that Milly had run off from her
husband. Everybody but Frank believed it an' wasn't slow in tellin' why she run off. Mother
had always hated that strange streak of Milly's, takin' up with the new religion as she had,
an' she believed Milly ran off with the Mormon. That hastened mother's death, an' she died
unforgivin'. Father wasn't the kind to bow down under disgrace or misfortune but he had surpassin'
love for Milly, an' the loss of her broke him.

"From the minute I heard of Milly's disappearance I never believed she went off of her own
free will. I knew Milly, an' I knew she couldn't have done that. I stayed at home awhile, tryin'
to make Frank Erne talk. But if he knowed anythin' then he wouldn't tell it. So I set out to
find Milly. An' I tried to get on the trail of that proselyter. I knew if I ever struck a town
he'd visited that I'd get a trail. I knew, too, that nothin' short of hell would stop his proselytin'.
An' I rode from town to town. I had a blind faith that somethin' was guidin' me. An' as the
weeks an' months went by I growed into a strange sort of a man, I guess. Anyway, people were
afraid of me. Two years after that, way over in a corner of Texas, I struck a town where my
man had been. He'd jest left. People said he came to that town without a woman. I back-trailed
my man through Arkansas an' Mississippi, an' the old trail got hot again in Texas. I found
the town where he first went after leavin' home. An' here I got track of Milly. I found a cabin
where she had given birth to her baby. There was no way to tell whether she'd been kept a prisoner
or not. The feller who owned the place was a mean, silent sort of a skunk, an' as I was leavin'
I jest took a chance an' left my mark on him. Then I went home again.

"It was to find I hadn't any home, no more. Father had been dead a year. Frank Erne still lived
in the house where Milly had left him. I stayed with him awhile, an' I grew old watchin' him.
His farm had gone to weed, his cattle had strayed or been rustled, his house weathered till
it wouldn't keep out rain nor wind. An' Frank set on the porch and whittled sticks, an' day
by day wasted away. There was times when he ranted about like a crazy man, but mostly he was
always sittin' an' starin' with eyes that made a man curse. I figured Frank had a secret fear
that I needed to know. An' when I told him I'd trailed Milly for near three years an' had got
trace of her, an' saw where she'd had her baby, I thought he would drop dead at my feet. An'
when he'd come round more natural-like he begged me to give up the trail. But he wouldn't explain.
So I let him alone, an' watched him day en' night.

"An' I found there was one thing still precious to him, an' it was a little drawer where he
kept his papers. This was in the room where he slept. An' it 'peered he seldom slept. But after
bein' patient I got the contents of that drawer an' found two letters from Milly. One was a
long letter written a few months after her disappearance. She had been bound an' gagged an'
dragged away from her home by three men, an' she named them--Hurd, Metzger, Slack. They was
strangers to her. She was taken to the little town where I found trace of her two years after.
But she didn't send the letter from that town. There she was penned in. 'Peared that the proselytes,
who had, of course, come on the scene, was not runnin' any risks of losin' her. She went on
to say that for a time she was out of her head, an' when she got right again all that kept
her alive was the baby. It was a beautiful baby, she said, an' all she thought an' dreamed
of was somehow to get baby back to its father, an' then she'd thankfully lay down and die.
An' the letter ended abrupt, in the middle of a sentence, en' it wasn't signed.

"The second letter was written more than two years after the first. It was from Salt Lake City.
It simply said that Milly had heard her brother was on her trail. She asked Frank to tell her
brother to give up the search because if he didn't she would suffer in a way too horrible to
tell. She didn't beg. She just stated a fact an' made the simple request. An' she ended that
letter by sayin' she would soon leave Salt Lake City with the man she had come to love, en'
would never be heard of again.

"I recognized Milly's handwritin', an' I recognized her way of puttin' things. But that second
letter told me of some great change in her. Ponderin' over it, I felt at last she'd either
come to love that feller an' his religion, or some terrible fear made her lie an' say so. I
couldn't be sure which. But, of course, I meant to find out. I'll say here, if I'd known Mormons
then as I do now I'd left Milly to her fate. For mebbe she was right about what she'd suffer
if I kept on her trail. But I was young an' wild them days. First I went to the town where
she'd first been taken, an' I went to the place where she'd been kept. I got that skunk who
owned the place, an' took him out in the woods, an' made him tell all he knowed. That wasn't
much as to length, but it was pure hell's-fire in substance. This time I left him some incapacitated
for any more skunk work short of hell. Then I hit the trail for Utah.

"That was fourteen years ago. I saw the incomin' of most of the Mormons. It was a wild country
an' a wild time. I rode from town to town, village to village, ranch to ranch, camp to camp.
I never stayed long in one place. I never had but one idea. I never rested. Four years went
by, an' I knowed every trail in northern Utah. I kept on an' as time went by, an' I'd begun
to grow old in my search, I had firmer, blinder faith in whatever was guidin' me. Once I read
about a feller who sailed the seven seas an' traveled the world, an' he had a story to tell,
an' whenever he seen the man to whom he must tell that story he knowed him on sight. I was
like that, only I had a question to ask. An' always I knew the man of whom I must ask. So I
never really lost the trail, though for many years it was the dimmest trail ever followed by
any man.

"Then come a change in my luck. Along in Central Utah I rounded up Hurd, an' I whispered somethin'
in his ear, an' watched his face, an' then throwed a gun against his bowels. An' he died with
his teeth so tight shut I couldn't have pried them open with a knife. Slack an' Metzger that
same year both heard me whisper the same question, an' neither would they speak a word when
they lay dyin'. Long before I'd learned no man of this breed or class--or God knows what--would
give up any secrets! I had to see in a man's fear of death the connections with Milly Erne's
fate. An' as the years passed at long intervals I would find such a man.

"So as I drifted on the long trail down into southern Utah my name preceded me, an' I had to
meet a people prepared for me, an' ready with guns. They made me a gun-man. An' that suited
me. In all this time signs of the proselyter an' the giant with the blue-ice eyes an' the gold
beard seemed to fade dimmer out of the trail. Only twice in ten years did I find a trace of
that mysterious man who had visited the proselyter at my home village. What he had to do with
Milly's fate was beyond all hope for me to learn, unless my guidin' spirit led me to him! As
for the other man, I knew, as sure as I breathed en' the stars shone en' the wind blew, that
I'd meet him some day.

"Eighteen years I've been on the trail. An' it led me to the last lonely villages of the Utah
border. Eighteen years!... I feel pretty old now. I was only twenty when I hit that trail.
Well, as I told you, back here a ways a Gentile said Jane Withersteen could tell me about Milly
Erne an' show me her grave!"

The low voice ceased, and Lassiter slowly turned his sombrero round and round, and appeared
to be counting the silver ornaments on the band. Jane, leaning toward him, sat as if petrified,
listening intently, waiting to hear more. She could have shrieked, but power of tongue and
lips were denied her. She saw only this sad, gray, passion-worn man, and she heard only the
faint rustling of the leaves.

"Well, I came to Cottonwoods," went on Lassiter, "an' you showed me Milly's grave. An' though
your teeth have been shut tighter 'n them of all the dead men lyin' back along that trail,
jest the same you told me the secret I've lived these eighteen years to hear! Jane, I said
you'd tell me without ever me askin'. I didn't need to ask my question here. The day, you remember,
when that fat party throwed a gun on me in your court, an'--"

"Oh! Hush!" whispered Jane, blindly holding up her hands.

"I seen in your face that Dyer, now a bishop, was the proselyter who ruined Milly Erne."

For an instant Jane Withersteen's brain was a whirling chaos and she recovered to find herself
grasping at Lassiter like one drowning. And as if by a lightning stroke she sprang from her
dull apathy into exquisite torture.

"It's a lie! Lassiter! No, no!" she moaned. "I swear--you're wrong!"

"Stop! You'd perjure yourself! But I'll spare you that. You poor woman! Still blind! Still
faithful!... Listen. I know. Let that settle it. An' I give up my purpose!"

"What is it--you say?"

"I give up my purpose. I've come to see an' feel differently. I can't help poor Milly. An'
I've outgrowed revenge. I've come to see I can be no judge for men. I can't kill a man jest
for hate. Hate ain't the same with me since I loved you and little Fay."

"Lassiter! You mean you won't kill him?" Jane whispered.

"No."

"For my sake?"

"I reckon. I can't understand, but I'll respect your feelin's."

"Because you--oh, because you love me?... Eighteen years! You were that terrible Lassiter!
And now--because you love me?"

"That's it, Jane."

"Oh, you'll make me love you! How can I help but love you? My heart must be stone. But--oh,
Lassiter, wait, wait! Give me time. I'm not what I was. Once it was so easy to love. Now it's
easy to hate. Wait! My faith in God--some God--still lives. By it I see happier times for you,
poor passion-swayed wanderer! For me--a miserable, broken woman. I loved your sister Milly.
I will love you. I can't have fallen so low--I can't be so abandoned by God--that I've no love
left to give you. Wait! Let us forget Milly's sad life. Ah, I knew it as no one else on earth!
There's one thing I shall tell you--if you are at my death-bed, but I can't speak now."

"I reckon I don't want to hear no more," said Lassiter.

Jane leaned against him, as if some pent-up force had rent its way out, she fell into a paroxysm
of weeping. Lassiter held her in silent sympathy. By degrees she regained composure, and she
was rising, sensible of being relieved of a weighty burden, when a sudden start on Lassiter's
part alarmed her.

"I heard hosses--hosses with muffled hoofs!" he said; and he got up guardedly.

"Where's Fay?" asked Jane, hurriedly glancing round the shady knoll. The bright-haired child,
who had appeared to be close all the time, was not in sight.

"Fay!" called Jane.

No answering shout of glee. No patter of flying feet. Jane saw Lassiter stiffen.

"Fay--oh--Fay!" Jane almost screamed.

The leaves quivered and rustled; a lonesome cricket chirped in the grass, a bee hummed by.
The silence of the waning afternoon breathed hateful portent. It terrified Jane. When had silence
been so infernal?

"She's--only--strayed--out--of earshot," faltered Jane, looking at Lassiter.

Pale, rigid as a statue, the rider stood, not in listening, searching posture, but in one of
doomed certainty. Suddenly he grasped Jane with an iron hand, and, turning his face from her
gaze, he strode with her from the knoll.

"See--Fay played here last--a house of stones an' sticks.... An' here's a corral of pebbles
with leaves for hosses," said Lassiter, stridently, and pointed to the ground. "Back an' forth
she trailed here.... See, she's buried somethin'--a dead grasshopper--there's a tombstone...
here she went, chasin' a lizard--see the tiny streaked trail... she pulled bark off this cottonwood...
look in the dust of the path--the letters you taught her--she's drawn pictures of birds en'
hosses an' people.... Look, a cross! Oh, Jane, your cross!"

Lassiter dragged Jane on, and as if from a book read the meaning of little Fay's trail. All
the way down the knoll, through the shrubbery, round and round a cottonwood, Fay's vagrant
fancy left records of her sweet musings and innocent play. Long had she lingered round a bird-nest
to leave therein the gaudy wing of a butterfly. Long had she played beside the running stream
sending adrift vessels freighted with pebbly cargo. Then she had wandered through the deep
grass, her tiny feet scarcely turning a fragile blade, and she had dreamed beside some old
faded flowers. Thus her steps led her into the broad lane. The little dimpled imprints of her
bare feet showed clean-cut in the dust they went a little way down the lane; and then, at a
point where they stopped, the great tracks of a man led out from the shrubbery and returned.

CHAPTER XX. LASSITER'S WAY

Footprints told the story of little Fay's abduction. In anguish Jane Withersteen turned speechlessly
to Lassiter, and, confirming her fears, she saw him gray-faced, aged all in a moment, stricken
as if by a mortal blow.

Then all her life seemed to fall about her in wreck and ruin.

"It's all over," she heard her voice whisper. "It's ended. I'm going--I'm going--"

"Where?" demanded Lassiter, suddenly looming darkly over her.

"To--to those cruel men--"

"Speak names!" thundered Lassiter.

"To Bishop Dyer--to Tull," went on Jane, shocked into obedience.

"Well--what for?"

"I want little Fay. I can't live without her. They've stolen her as they stole Milly Erne's
child. I must have little Fay. I want only her. I give up. I'll go and tell Bishop Dyer--I'm
broken. I'll tell him I'm ready for the yoke--only give me back Fay--and--and I'll marry Tull!"

"Never!" hissed Lassiter.

His long arm leaped at her. Almost running, he dragged her under the cottonwoods, across the
court, into the huge hall of Withersteen House, and he shut the door with a force that jarred
the heavy walls. Black Star and Night and Bells, since their return, had been locked in this
hall, and now they stamped on the stone floor.

Lassiter released Jane and like a dizzy man swayed from her with a hoarse cry and leaned shaking
against a table where he kept his rider's accoutrements. He began to fumble in his saddlebags.
His action brought a clinking, metallic sound--the rattling of gun-cartridges. His fingers
trembled as he slipped cartridges into an extra belt. But as he buckled it over the one he
habitually wore his hands became steady. This second belt contained two guns, smaller than
the black ones swinging low, and he slipped them round so that his coat hid them. Then he fell
to swift action. Jane Withersteen watched him, fascinated but uncomprehending and she saw him
rapidly saddle Black Star and Night. Then he drew her into the light of the huge windows, standing
over her, gripping her arm with fingers like cold steel.

"Yes, Jane, it's ended--but you're not goin' to Dyer!... I'm goin' instead!"

Looking at him--he was so terrible of aspect--she could not comprehend his words. Who was this
man with the face gray as death, with eyes that would have made her shriek had she the strength,
with the strange, ruthlessly bitter lips? Where was the gentle Lassiter? What was this presence
in the hall, about him, about her--this cold, invisible presence?

"Yes, it's ended, Jane," he was saying, so awfully quiet and cool and implacable, "an' I'm
goin' to make a little call. I'll lock you in here, an' when I get back have the saddle-bags
full of meat an bread. An' be ready to ride!"

"Lassiter!" cried Jane.

Desperately she tried to meet his gray eyes, in vain, desperately she tried again, fought herself
as feeling and thought resurged in torment, and she succeeded, and then she knew.

"No--no--no!" she wailed. "You said you'd foregone your vengeance. You promised not to kill
Bishop Dyer."

"If you want to talk to me about him--leave off the Bishop. I don't understand that name, or
its use."

"Oh, hadn't you foregone your vengeance on--on Dyer?

"Yes."

"But--your actions--your words--your guns--your terrible looks!... They don't seem foregoing
vengeance?"

"Jane, now it's justice."

"You'll--kill him?"

"If God lets me live another hour! If not God--then the devil who drives me!"

"You'll kill him--for yourself--for your vengeful hate?"

"No!"

"For Milly Erne's sake?"

"No."

"For little Fay's?"

"No!"

"Oh--for whose?"

"For yours!"

"His blood on my soul!" whispered Jane, and she fell to her knees. This was the long-pending
hour of fruition. And the habit of years--the religious passion of her life--leaped from lethargy,
and the long months of gradual drifting to doubt were as if they had never been. "If you spill
his blood it'll be on my soul--and on my father's. Listen." And she clasped his knees, and
clung there as he tried to raise her. "Listen. Am I nothing to you?"

"Woman--don't trifle at words! I love you! An' I'll soon prove it."

"I'll give myself to you--I'll ride away with you--marry you, if only you'll spare him?"

His answer was a cold, ringing, terrible laugh.

"Lassiter--I'll love you. Spare him!"

"No."

She sprang up in despairing, breaking spirit, and encircled his neck with her arms, and held
him in an embrace that he strove vainly to loosen. "Lassiter, would you kill me? I'm fighting
my last fight for the principles of my youth--love of religion, love of father. You don't know--you
can't guess the truth, and I can't speak ill. I'm losing all. I'm changing. All I've gone through
is nothing to this hour. Pity me--help me in my weakness. You're strong again--oh, so cruelly,
coldly strong! You're killing me. I see you--feel you as some other Lassiter! My master, be
merciful--spare him!"

His answer was a ruthless smile.

She clung the closer to him, and leaned her panting breast on him, and lifted her face to his.
"Lassiter, I do love you! It's leaped out of my agony. It comes suddenly with a terrible blow
of truth. You are a man! I never knew it till now. Some wonderful change came to me when you
buckled on these guns and showed that gray, awful face. I loved you then. All my life I've
loved, but never as now. No woman can love like a broken woman. If it were not for one thing--just
one thing--and yet! I can't speak it--I'd glory in your manhood--the lion in you that means
to slay for me. Believe me--and spare Dyer. Be merciful--great as it's in you to be great....
Oh, listen and believe--I have nothing, but I'm a woman--a beautiful woman, Lassiter--a passionate,
loving woman--and I love you! Take me--hide me in some wild place--and love me and mend my
broken heart. Spare him and take me away."

She lifted her face closer and closer to his, until their lips nearly touched, and she hung
upon his neck, and with strength almost spent pressed and still pressed her palpitating body
to his.

"Kiss me!" she whispered, blindly.

"No--not at your price!" he answered. His voice had changed or she had lost clearness of hearing.

"Kiss me!... Are you a man? Kiss me and save me!"

"Jane, you never played fair with me. But now you're blisterin' your lips--blackenin' your
soul with lies!"

"By the memory of my mother--by my Bible--no! No, I have no Bible! But by my hope of heaven
I swear I love you!"

Lassiter's gray lips formed soundless words that meant even her love could not avail to bend
his will. As if the hold of her arms was that of a child's he loosened it and stepped away.

"Wait! Don't go! Oh, hear a last word!... May a more just and merciful God than the God I was
taught to worship judge me--forgive me--save me! For I can no longer keep silent!... Lassiter,
in pleading for Dyer I've been pleading more for my father. My father was a Mormon master,
close to the leaders of the church. It was my father who sent Dyer out to proselyte. It was
my father who had the blue-ice eye and the beard of gold. It was my father you got trace of
in the past years. Truly, Dyer ruined Milly Erne--dragged her from her home--to Utah--to Cottonwoods.
But it was for my father! If Milly Erne was ever wife of a Mormon that Mormon was my father!
I never knew--never will know whether or not she was a wife. Blind I may be, Lassiter--fanatically
faithful to a false religion I may have been but I know justice, and my father is beyond human
justice. Surely he is meeting just punishment--somewhere. Always it has appalled me--the thought
of your killing Dyer for my father's sins. So I have prayed!"

"Jane, the past is dead. In my love for you I forgot the past. This thing I'm about to do ain't
for myself or Milly or Fay. It s not because of anythin' that ever happened in the past, but
for what is happenin' right now. It's for you!... An' listen. Since I was a boy I've never
thanked God for anythin'. If there is a God--an' I've come to believe it--I thank Him now for
the years that made me Lassiter!... I can reach down en' feel these big guns, en' know what
I can do with them. An', Jane, only one of the miracles Dyer professes to believe in can save him!"

Again for Jane Withersteen came the spinning of her brain in darkness, and as she whirled in
endless chaos she seemed to be falling at the feet of a luminous figure--a man--Lassiter--who
had saved her from herself, who could not be changed, who would slay rightfully. Then she slipped
into utter blackness.

When she recovered from her faint she became aware that she was lying on a couch near the window
in her sitting-room. Her brow felt damp and cold and wet, some one was chafing her hands; she
recognized Judkins, and then saw that his lean, hard face wore the hue and look of excessive
agitation.

"Judkins!" Her voice broke weakly.

"Aw, Miss Withersteen, you're comin' round fine. Now jest lay still a little. You're all right;
everythin's all right."

"Where is--he?"

"Who?"

"Lassiter!"

"You needn't worry none about him."

"Where is he? Tell me--instantly."

"Wal, he's in the other room patchin' up a few triflin' bullet holes."

"Ah!... Bishop' Dyer?"

"When I seen him last--a matter of half an hour ago, he was on his knees. He was some busy,
but he wasn't prayin'!"

"How strangely you talk! I'll sit up. I'm--well, strong again. Tell me. Dyer on his knees!
What was he doing?"

"Wal, beggin' your pardon fer blunt talk, Miss Withersteen, Dyer was on his knees an' not prayin'.
You remember his big, broad hands? You've seen 'em raised in blessin' over old gray men an'
little curly-headed children like--like Fay Larkin! Come to think of thet, I disremember ever
hearin' of his liftin' his big hands in blessin' over a woman. Wal, when I seen him last--jest
a little while ago--he was on his knees, not prayin', as I remarked--an' he was pressin' his
big hands over some bigger wounds."

"Man, you drive me mad! Did Lassiter kill Dyer?"

"Yes."

"Did he kill Tull?"

"No. Tull's out of the village with most of his riders. He's expected back before evenin'.
Lassiter will hev to git away before Tull en' his riders come in. It's sure death fer him here.
An' wuss fer you, too, Miss Withersteen. There'll be some of an uprisin' when Tull gits back."

"I shall ride away with Lassiter. Judkins, tell me all you saw--all you know about this killing." I
think you are forgetting one thing, that what I offer you is to be while the water flows and the
sun rises. You know that in the United States they only pay the Indian for twenty years, and
you come here to-day and ask for ever more than they get for twenty years. Is that just? I think
you ought to accept my offer, and make a treaty with me as I ask
you to do.

I only ask you to think for yourselves, and for your families, and for your children and children's
children, and I know that if you do that you will shake hands with
me to-day.

"CHIEF--" I lay before you our opinions. Our hands are poor but our heads are rich, and it is riches
that we ask so that we may be able to support our families as long as the sun rises and the
water runs.

"GOVERNOR--" I am very sorry; you know it takes two to make a bargain; you are agreed on the one
side, and I for the Queen's Government on the other. I have to go away and report that I have
to go without making terms with you. I doubt if the Commissioners will be sent again to assemble
this nation.

I have only one word more to say; I speak to the Chief and to the head men to recollect those
behind them, and those they have left at home, and not to go away without accepting such liberal
terms and without some clothing.

"CHIEF--" My terms I am going to lay down before you; the decision
of our Chiefs; ever since we came to a decision you push it back.

The sound of the rustling of the gold is under my feet where I stand; we have a rich country;
it is the Great Spirit who gave us this; where we stand upon is the Indians'property, and belongs
to them. If you grant us our requests you will not go back without
making the treaty.

"ANOTHER CHIEF--" We understood yesterday that the Queen had given you the power to act upon,
that you could do what you pleased, and that the riches of the Queen
she had filled your head and body with, and you had only to throw
them round about; but it seems it is not so, but that you have only
half the power that she has, and that she has only half filled your
head.

"GOVERNOR--" I do not like to be misunderstood. I did not say yesterday that the Queen had given
me all the power; what I told you was that I was sent here to represent the Queen's Government,
and to tell you what the Queen was willing to do for you. You can understand very well; for
instance, one of your great chiefs asks a brave to deliver a message, he represents you, and that
is how I stand with the Queen's Government.

"CHIEF--" It is your charitableness that you spoke of yesterday-- Her Majesty's charitableness
that was given you. It is our chiefs, our young men, our children and great grand-children,
and those that are to be born, that I represent here, and it is for
them I ask for terms.

The white man has robbed us of our riches, and we don't wish to give them up again without getting
something in their place.

"GOVERNOR--" For your children, grand-children, and children unborn, I am sorry that you will not
accept of my terms. I shall go home sorry, but it is your own doing; I must simply go back and
report the fact that you refuse to make a treaty with me.

"CHIEF--" You see all our chiefs before you here as one mind; we have one mind and one mouth.
It is the decision of all of us; if you grant us our demands you will not go back sorrowful; we would
not refuse to make a treaty if you would grant us our demands.

"GOVERNOR--" I have told you already that I cannot grant your demands,
I have not the power to do so.

I have made you a liberal offer, and it is for you to accept or refuse
it as you please.

"CHIEF--" Our chiefs have the same opinion; they will not change
their decision.

"GOVERNOR--" Then the Council is at an end.

"CHIEF (of Lac Seule)--" I understand the matter that he asks; if he puts a question to me as well
as to others, I say so as well as the rest. We are the first that were planted here; we would
ask you to assist us with every kind of implement to use for our benefit, to enable us to perform
our work; a little of everything and money. We would borrow your cattle; we ask you this for our
support; I will find whereon to feed them. The waters out of which you sometimes take food for yourselves,
we will lend you in return. If I should try to stop you-- it is not in my power to do so; even
the Hudson's Bay Company-- that is a small power-- I cannot gain my point with it. If you give what
I ask, the time may come when I will ask you to lend me one of your daughters and one of your
sons to live with us; and in return I will lend you one of my daughters and one of my sons for you
to teach what is good, and after they have learned, to teach us. If you grant us what I ask,
although I do not know you, I will shake hands with you. This is
all I have to say.

"GOVERNOR--" I have heard and I have learned something. I have learned that you are not all of one
mind. I know that your interests are not the same-- that some of you live in the north far away from
the river, and some live on the river, and that you have got large sums of money for wood that
you have cut and sold to the steamboats; but the men in the north have not this advantage.
What the Chief has said is reasonable; and should you want goods I mean to ask you what amount
you would have in goods, so that you would not have to pay the traders'prices for them. I wish
you were all of the same mind as the Chief who has just spoken.

He wants his children to be taught. He is right. He wants to get cattle to help him to raise
grain for his children. It would be a good thing for you all to be of his mind, and then you
would not go away without making this treaty with me.

"BLACKSTONE (Shebandowan)--" I am going to lay down before you the minds of those who are here.
I do not wish to interfere with the decisions of those who are before
you, or yet with your decisions.

The people at the height of land where the waters came down from Shebandowan to Fort Frances,
are those who have appointed me to lay before you our decision. We are going back to hold a
Council.

"MR. DAWSON--" I would ask the Chief who has just spoken, did the band
at Shebandowan-- did Rat McKay, authorize him to speak for them?

Ke-ha-ke-ge-nen is Blackstone's own Chief; and I am perfectly willing
to think that he authorized him.

What I have to say is that the Indians may not be deceived by representations made to them,
and that the two bands met me at Shebandowan and said they were perfectly willing to enter
into a treaty.

"GOVERNOR--" I think the nation will do well to do what the Chief has said. I think he has spoken
sincerely, and it is right for them to withdraw and hold a Council
among themselves.

"Blackstone here handed in a paper which he alleged gave him authority
as Chief, but which proved to be an official acknowledgement of the
receipt of a letter by the Indian Department at Ottawa.

The Governor here agreed with the Council that it would be well for the Chiefs to have another
meeting amongst themselves.

It was a most important day for them and for their children, and
His Excellency would be glad to meet them again.

The Council broke up at this point, and it was extremely doubtful whether an agreement could be come
to or not. The Rainy River Indians were careless about the treaty, because they could get plenty
of money for cutting wood for the boats, but the northern and eastern
bands were anxious for one.

The Governor decided that he would make a treaty with those bands
that were willing to accept his terms, leaving out the few disaffected
ones.

A Council was held by the Indians in the evening, at which Hon. James
McKay, Pierre Leveillee, Charles Nolin, and Mr. Genton were present
by invitation of the Chiefs.

After a very lengthy and exhaustive discussion, it was decided to
accept the Governor's terms, and the final meeting was announced for
Friday morning.

Punctually at the appointed time proceedings were opened by the Fort Francis Chiefs announcing
to His Excellency that they were all of one mind, and would accept his terms, with a few modifications.
The discussion of these terms occupied five hours, and met every
possible contingency so fully that it would be impossible to do justice
to the negotiators otherwise than by giving a full report of the speeches
on both sides; but want of space compels us to lay it over until next
week.

The treaty was finally closed on Friday afternoon, and signed on Saturday, after which a large
quantity of provisions, ammunition and other goods were distributed.

When the council broke up last (Thursday) night, 3rd October, it looked very improbable that
an understanding could be arrived at, but the firmness of the Governor, and the prospect that he
would make a treaty with such of the bands as were willing to accept his terms, to the exclusion of
the others, led them to reconsider their demands. The Hon. James McKay, and Messrs. Nolin, Genton,
and Leveillee were invited in to their council, and after a most
exhaustive discussion of the circumstance in which they were placed,
it was resolved to accept the Governor's terms, with some modifications.

Word was sent to this effect, and at eleven o'clock on Friday, conference
was again held with His Excellency.

The Fort Francis Chief opened negotiations by saying:--" We present our compliments to you, and
now we would tell you something. You have mentioned our councillors, warriors and messengers-- every
Chief you see has his councillors, warriors and messengers.

"GOVERNOR--" I was not aware what names they gave me-- they gave their
chief men.

I spoke of the subordinates of the head Chiefs; I believe the head Chiefs have three subordinates--
I mean the head Chief and three of his head men.

"CHIEF--" I am going to tell you the decision of all before you. I want to see your power and
learn the most liberal terms that you can give us.

"GOVERNOR--" I am glad to meet the Chiefs, and I hope it will be the last time of our meeting.
I hope we are going to understand one another to-day. And that I can go back and report that
I left my Indian friends contented, and that I have put into their
hands the means of providing for themselves and their families at
home; and now I will give you my last words.

When I held out my hands to you at first, I intended to do what was
just and right, and what I had the power to do at once,-- not to go
backwards and forwards, but at once to do what I believe is just and
right to you.

I was very much pleased yesterday with the words of the Chief of Lac Seul. I was glad to hear
that he had commenced to farm and to raise things for himself and
family, and I was glad to hear him ask me to hold out my hand.

I think we should do everything to help you by giving you the means to grow some food, so
that if it is a bad year for fishing and hunting you may have something
for your children at home.

If you had not asked it the Government would have done it all the same, although I had not
said so before.

I can say this, that when a band settles down and actually commences
to farm on their lands, the Government will agree to give two hoes,
one spade, one scythe, and one axe for every family actually settled;
one plough for every ten families, five harrows for every twenty families,
and a yoke of oxen, a bull and four cows for every band; and enough
barley, wheat and oats to plant the land they have actually broken
up.

This is to enable them to cultivate their land, and it is to be given them on their commencing
to do so, once for all. There is one thing that I have thought over, and I think it is a wise
thing to do.

That is to give you ammunition, and twine for making nets, to the
extent of$ 1,500 per year, for the whole nation, so that you can have
the means of procuring food.-- Now, I will mention the last thing that
I can do.

I think that the sum I have offered you to be paid after this year
for every man, woman and child now, and for years to come, is right
and is the proper sum I will not make an change in that, but we are
anxious to show you that we have a great desire to understand you-- that
we wish to do the utmost in our power to make you contented, so that
the white and the red man will always be friends.

This year, instead of ten dollars we will give you twelve dollars,
to be paid you at once as soon as we sign the treaty.

This is the best I can do for you I wish you to understand we do
not come here as traders but as representing the Crown, and to do
what we believe is just and right.

We have asked in that spirit, and I hope you will meet me in that
spirit and shake hands with me day and make a treaty for ever.

I have no more to say.

"CHIEF--" I wish to ask some points that I have not properly understood.

We understand that our children are to have two dollars extra. Will the two dollars be paid to
our principal men as well? And these things that are promised will they commence at once and
will we see it year after year?

"GOVERNOR--" I thought I had spoken fully as to everything, but I will speak again. The ammunition
and twine will be got at once for you, this year, and that will be
for every year.

The Commissioner will see that you get this at once; with regard to the things to help you to
farm, you must recollect, in a very few days the river will be frozen
up here and we have not got these things here now.

But arrangements will be made next year to get these things for those who are farming, it
cannot be done before as you can see yourselves very well. Some are farming, and I hope you
will all do so.

"CHIEF--" One thing I did not say that is most necessary-- we want a cross-cut saw, a whip saw, grindstone
and files.

"GOVERNOR--" We will do that, and I think we ought to give a box
of common tools to each Chief of a Band.

"CHIEF--" Depending upon the words you have told us, and stretched out
your hands in a friendly way, I depend upon that.

One thing more we demand-- a suit of clothes to all of us.

"GOVERNOR--" With regard to clothing, suits will be given to the Chiefs and head men, and as
to the other Indians there is a quantity of goods and provisions here
that will be given them at the close of the treaty.

The coats of the Chiefs will be given every three years.

"CHIEF--" Once more; powder and shot will not go off without guns.
We ask for guns.

"GOVERNOR--" I have shewn every disposition to meet your view, but what I have promised is as far
as I can go.

"CHIEF--" My friends, listen to what I am going to say, and you, my brothers. We present you now
with our best and our strongest compliments. We ask you not to reject some of our children who have
gone out of our place; they are scattered all over, a good tasted meat hath drawn them away, and
we wish to draw them all here and be contented with us.

"GOVERNOR--" If your children come and live here, of course they will
become part of the population, and be as yourselves.

"CHIEF--" I hope you will grant the request that I am going to lay before you. I do not mean those
that get paid on the other side of the line, but some poor Indians who may happen to fall in
our road. If you will accept of these little matters, the treaty will be at an end. I would
not like that one of my children should not eat with me, and receive
the food that you are going to give me.

"GOVERNOR--" I am dealing with British Indians and not American Indians, after the treaty is closed
we will have a list of the names of any children of British Indians that may come in during
two years and be ranked with them; but we must have a limit somewhere.

"CHIEF--" I should not feel happy if I was not to mess with some of my children that are around
me-- those children that we call the Half-breed-- those that have been born of our women of Indian blood.
We wish that they should be counted with us, and have their share
of what you have promised.

We wish you to accept our demands. It is the Half-breeds that are actually living amongst us-- those
that are married to our women.

"GOVERNOR--" I am sent here to treat with the Indians.

In Red River, where I came from, and where there is a great body of Half-breeds, they must
be either white or Indian. If Indians, they get treaty money; if the Half-breeds call themselves
white, they get land. All I can do is to refer the matter to the
Government at Ottawa, and to recommend what you wish to be granted.

"CHIEF--" I hope you will not drop the question; we have understood you to say that you came here
as a friend, and represented your charitableness, and we depend upon
your kindness.

You must remember that our hearts and our brains are like paper; we never forget. There is
one thing that we want to know. If you should get into trouble with the nations, I do not wish
to walk out and expose my young men to aid you in any of your wars.

"GOVERNOR--" The English never call the Indians out of their country to fight their battles.
You are living here and the Queen expects you to live at peace with the white men and your red
brothers, and with other nations.

"ANOTHER CHIEF--" I ask you a question-- I see your roads here passing through the country, and some
of your boats-- useful articles that you use for yourself. Bye and bye we shall see things that
run swiftly, that go by fare-- carriages-- and we ask you that us Indians may not have to pay their
passage on these things, but can go free.

"GOVERNOR--" I think the best thing I can do is to become an Indian. I cannot promise you
to pass on the railroad free, for it may be a long time before we get one; and I cannot promise
you any more than other people.

"CHIEF--" I must address myself to my friend here, as he is the one
that has the Public Works.

"MR.
DAWSON--" I am always happy to do anything I can for you. I have always given you a passage on the
boats when I could. I will act as I have done though I can give no positive promise for the
future.

"CHIEF--" We must have the privilege of travelling about the country
where it is vacant.

"MR. McKAY--" Of course, I told them so.

"CHIEF--" Should we discover any metal that was of use, could we have
the privilege of putting our own price on it?

"GOVERNOR--" If any important minerals are discovered on any of their reserves the minerals will be sold
for their benefit with their consent, but not on any other land that discoveries may take place
upon; as regards other discoveries, of course, the Indian is like
any other man.

He can sell his information if he can find a purchaser.

"CHIEF--"
It will be as well while we are here that everything should be understood
properly between us. All of us-- those behind us-- wish to have their
reserves marked out, which they will point out, when the time comes.
There is not one tribe here who has not laid it out.

"COMMISSIONER
PROVENCHER (the Governor being temporarily absent)--" As soon as it
is convenient to the Government to send surveyors to lay out the reserves
they will do so, and they will try to suit every particular band in
this respect.

"CHIEF--" We do not want anybody to mark out our reserves,
we have already marked them out.

"COMMISSIONER--" There will be another
undertaking between the officers of the Government and the Indians
among themselves for the selection of the land; they will have enough
of good farming land, they may be sure of that.

"CHIEF--" Of course,
if there is any particular part wanted by the public works they can
shift us. I understand that; but if we have any gardens through the
country, do you wish that the poor man should throw it right away?

"COMMISSIONER--"
Of course not.

"CHIEF--" These are matters that are the wind-up. I begin
now to see how I value the proceedings. I have come to this point,
and all that are taking part in this treaty and yourself I would wish
to have all your names in writing handed over to us. I would not find
it to my convenience to have a stranger here to transact our business
between me and you. It is a white man who does not understand our
language that is taking it down. I would like a man that understands
our language and our ways. We would ask your Excellency as a favor
to appoint him for us.

"GOVERNOR--" I have a very good feeling
to Mr. C. Nolin, he has been a good man here; but the appointment
of an Agent rests with the authorities at Ottawa and I will bring your
representation to them, and I am quite sure it will meet with the
respect due to it.

"CHIEF--" As regards the fire water, I do not like
it and I do not wish any house to be built to have it sold. Perhaps
at times if I should be unwell I might take drop just for medicine;
and shall any one insist on bringing it where we are, I should break
the treaty.

"GOVERNOR--" I meant to have spoken of that myself,
I meant to put it in the treaty. He speaks good about it. The Queen
and her Parliament in Ottawa have passed a law prohibiting the use
of it in this territory, and if any shall be brought in for the use
of you as medicine it can only come in by my permission.

"CHIEF--" Why
we keep you so long is that it is our wish that everything should
be properly understood between us, "GOVERNOR--"

That is why I am here. It is my pleasure,
and I want when we once shake hands that it should be forever. "CHIEF--"
That is the principal article.

If it was in my midst the fire water would have spoiled
my happiness, and I wish it to be left far away from where I am. We'll not be seen!
Oh, Bess--"

Ring growled and sniffed the keen air and bristled. Venters clutched at his rifle. Whitie sometimes
made a mistake, but Ring never. The dull thud of hoofs almost deprived Venters of power to
turn and see from where disaster threatened. He felt his eyes dilate as he stared at Lassiter
leading Black Star and Night out of the sage, with Jane Withersteen, in rider's costume, close
beside them.

For an instant Venters felt himself whirl dizzily in the center of vast circles of sage. He
recovered partially, enough to see Lassiter standing with a glad smile and Jane riveted in
astonishment.

"Why, Bern!" she exclaimed. "How good it is to see you! We're riding away, you see. The storm
burst--and I'm a ruined woman!... I thought you were alone."

Venters, unable to speak for consternation, and bewildered out of all sense of what he ought
or ought not to do, simply stared at Jane.

"Son, where are you bound for?" asked Lassiter.

"Not safe--where I was. I'm--we're going out of Utah--back East," he found tongue to say.

"I reckon this meetin's the luckiest thing that ever happened to you an' to me--an' to Jane--an'
to Bess," said Lassiter, coolly.

"Bess!" cried Jane, with a sudden leap of blood to her pale cheek.

It was entirely beyond Venters to see any luck in that meeting.

Jane Withersteen took one flashing, woman's glance at Bess's scarlet face, at her slender,
shapely form.

"Venters! is this a girl--a woman?" she questioned, in a voice that stung.

"Yes."

"Did you have her in that wonderful valley?"

"Yes, but Jane--"

"All the time you were gone?"

"Yes, but I couldn't tell--"

"Was it for her you asked me to give you supplies? Was it for her that you wanted to make your
valley a paradise?"

"Oh--Jane--"

"Answer me."

"Yes."

"Oh, you liar!" And with these passionate words Jane Withersteen succumbed to fury. For the
second time in her life she fell into the ungovernable rage that had been her father's weakness.
And it was worse than his, for she was a jealous woman--jealous even of her friends.

As best he could, he bore the brunt of her anger. It was not only his deceit to her that she
visited upon him, but her betrayal by religion, by life itself.

Her passion, like fire at white heat, consumed itself in little time. Her physical strength
failed, and still her spirit attempted to go on in magnificent denunciation of those who had
wronged her. Like a tree cut deep into its roots, she began to quiver and shake, and her anger
weakened into despair. And her ringing voice sank into a broken, husky whisper. Then, spent
and pitiable, upheld by Lassiter's arm, she turned and hid her face in Black Star's mane.

Numb as Venters was when at length Jane Withersteen lifted her head and looked at him, he yet
suffered a pang.

"Jane, the girl is innocent!" he cried.

"Can you expect me to believe that?" she asked, with weary, bitter eyes.

"I'm not that kind of a liar. And you know it. If I lied--if I kept silent when honor should
have made me speak, it was to spare you. I came to Cottonwoods to tell you. But I couldn't
add to your pain. I intended to tell you I had come to love this girl. But, Jane I hadn't forgotten
how good you were to me. I haven't changed at all toward you. I prize your friendship as I
always have. But, however it may look to you--don't be unjust. The girl is innocent. Ask Lassiter."

"Jane, she's jest as sweet an' innocent as little Fay," said Lassiter. There was a faint smile
upon his face and a beautiful light.

Venters saw, and knew that Lassiter saw, how Jane Withersteen's tortured soul wrestled with
hate and threw it--with scorn doubt, suspicion, and overcame all.

"Bern, if in my misery I accused you unjustly, I crave forgiveness," she said. "I'm not what
I once was. Tell me--who is this girl?"

"Jane, she is Oldring's daughter, and his Masked Rider. Lassiter will tell you how I shot her
for a rustler, saved her life--all the story. It's a strange story, Jane, as wild as the sage.
But it's true--true as her innocence. That you must believe."

"Oldring's Masked Rider! Oldring's daughter!" exclaimed Jane "And she's innocent! You ask me
to believe much. If this girl is--is what you say, how could she be going away with the man
who killed her father?"

"Why did you tell that?" cried Venters, passionately.

Jane's question had roused Bess out of stupefaction. Her eyes suddenly darkened and dilated.
She stepped toward Venters and held up both hands as if to ward off a blow.

"Did--did you kill Oldring?"

"I did, Bess, and I hate myself for it. But you know I never dreamed he was your father. I
thought he'd wronged you. I killed him when I was madly jealous."

For a moment Bess was shocked into silence.

"But he was my father!" she broke out, at last. "And now I must go back--I can't go with you.
It's all over--that beautiful dream. Oh, I knew it couldn't come true. You can't take me now."

"If you forgive me, Bess, it'll all come right in the end!" implored Venters.

"It can't be right. I'll go back. After all, I loved him. He was good to me. I can't forget that."

"If you go back to Oldring's men I'll follow you, and then they'll kill me," said Venters,
hoarsely.

"Oh no, Bern, you'll not come. Let me go. It's best for you to forget mot I've brought you
only pain and dishonor."

She did not weep. But the sweet bloom and life died out of her face. She looked haggard and
sad, all at once stunted; and her hands dropped listlessly; and her head drooped in slow, final
acceptance of a hopeless fate.

"Jane, look there!" cried Venters, in despairing grief. "Need you have told her? Where was
all your kindness of heart? This girl has had a wretched, lonely life. And I'd found a way
to make her happy. You've killed it. You've killed something sweet and pure and hopeful, just
as sure as you breathe."

"Oh, Bern! It was a slip. I never thought--I never thought!" replied Jane. "How could I tell
she didn't know?"

Lassiter suddenly moved forward, and with the beautiful light on his face now strangely luminous,
he looked at Jane and Venters and then let his soft, bright gaze rest on Bess.

"Well, I reckon you've all had your say, an' now it's Lassiter's turn. Why, I was jest praying
for this meetin'. Bess, jest look here."

Gently he touched her arm and turned her to face the others, and then outspread his great hand
to disclose a shiny, battered gold locket.

"Open it," he said, with a singularly rich voice.

Bess complied, but listlessly.

"Jane--Venters--come closer," went on Lassiter. "Take a look at the picture. Don't you know
the woman?"

Jane, after one glance, drew back.

"Milly Erne!" she cried, wonderingly.

Venters, with tingling pulse, with something growing on him, recognized in the faded miniature
portrait the eyes of Milly Erne.

"Yes, that's Milly," said Lassiter, softly. "Bess, did you ever see her face--look hard--with
all your heart an' soul?"

"The eyes seem to haunt me," whispered Bess. "Oh, I can't remember--they're eyes of my dreams--but--but--"

Lassiter's strong arm went round her and he bent his head.

"Child, I thought you'd remember her eyes. They're the same beautiful eyes you'd see if you
looked in a mirror or a clear spring. They're your mother's eyes. You are Milly Erne's child.
Your name is Elizabeth Erne. You're not Oldring's daughter. You're the daughter of Frank Erne,
a man once my best friend. Look! Here's his picture beside Milly's. He was handsome, an' as
fine an' gallant a Southern gentleman as I ever seen. Frank came of an old family. You come
of the best of blood, lass, and blood tells."

Bess slipped through his arm to her knees and hugged the locket to her bosom, and lifted wonderful,
yearning eyes.

"It--can't--be--true!"

"Thank God, lass, it is true," replied Lassiter. "Jane an' Bern here--they both recognize Milly.
They see Milly in you. They're so knocked out they can't tell you, that's all."

"Who are you?" whispered Bess.

"I reckon I'm Milly's brother an' your uncle!... Uncle Jim! Ain't that fine?"

"Oh, I can't believe--Don't raise me! Bern, let me kneel. I see truth in your face--in Miss
Withersteen's. But let me hear it all--all on my knees. Tell me how it's true!"

"Well, Elizabeth, listen," said Lassiter. "Before you was born your father made a mortal enemy
of a Mormon named Dyer. They was both ministers an' come to be rivals. Dyer stole your mother
away from her home. She gave birth to you in Texas eighteen years ago. Then she was taken to
Utah, from place to place, an' finally to the last border settlement--Cottonwoods. You was
about three years old when you was taken away from Milly. So I swallowed my pride and, consoling
myself with the thought that some day we might meet again, I wheeled about and made back to
the nook.

The fat chap had shed his bathing suit and was climbing into his clothes when I arrived. He
beamed at me and his whole face crinkled into smiles. I was so afraid that he was going to
make a silly speech that I pushed his automatic into his hands and said, "You'd better take
this, old man. The other party's in swift retreat and, from the condition of his wrist, I don't
fancy you'll receive another billet-doux for some time to come."

"Well, I'm hanged if you're not the coolest chap I've ever laid eyes
on," the fat man said admiringly.

"You
were nearer being shot," I hinted, "and, if you don't mind me saying so, the sooner you struggle
into those clothes of yours and get home to mother, the safer you'll be. I don't object to fighting
for you once in a while, but I'll see you further before I make a
habit of it."

"Um!" said the fat man, "I'm sorry. I'd hoped to persuade you to
take it on permanently."

I thought at first that he was joking, but the way he looked at me showed that he was in deadly
earnest. For all his flippancy there was something back of his eyes, a trace of fear that kept
peeping out every now and then, that told me he went in danger of his life. I hated to have
to refuse him, but I had very good reasons, which I intended to keep to myself, too, for not
putting my life into danger too often. So I told him point-blank that if he wanted to hire a bodyguard
he'd have to go somewhere else. He wasn't as put out at my reply as I would have expected.
Instead he smiled up at me-- for all his bulk I towered over him-- and
there was a touch of gameness in that smile that I rather liked.

I couldn't help telling him just what I thought.

"I don't think you want anyone to look after you," I said. "You're as game as they make'em. I'm pretty
used to reading men-- I've been in places where my life depended on
my ability in that direction-- and when I see a fellow smile like you're
smiling now, you can take it from me that he's grit all through."

"They'll get me yet," he said with a sigh. "I'm handicapped, you see. I couldn't have sprinted
along the beach the way you did. I'd have wheezed. Bellows gone and all that, you know. Too much
fat, the doctor says."

"Now, you're just about right there. I don't
like to be personal, but now you mention it, you don't seem to have
the cut of an athlete."

"And you have," he said, as he insinuated
himself into his collar. It was a trifle too small for his neck, and
he had to coax it a lot before he got both ends to meet. "You're the
type of man I take to instantly, Mr.----."

He asked me a question
with his eyes.

"Well," I said in answer, "if it's any use to you
my name's Carstairs, Jimmy Carstairs at that, and I'm an explorer
by inclination, gentleman by instinct, and the rolling-stone-that-gathers-no-moss
by sheer force of unlovely circumstance. And as the process of thought was slow, so were the
variations of her expression. Her eyes reflected the transformation of her soul. Dark, brooding,
hopeless belief--clouds of gloom--drifted, paled, vanished in glorious light. An exquisite
rose flush--a glow--shone from her face as she slowly began to rise from her knees. A spirit
uplifted her. All that she had held as base dropped from her.

Venters watched her in joy too deep for words. By it he divined something of what Lassiter's
revelation meant to Bess, but he knew he could only faintly understand. That moment when she
seemed to be lifted by some spiritual transfiguration was the most beautiful moment of his
life. She stood with parted, quivering lips, with hands tightly clasping the locket to her
heaving breast. A new conscious pride of worth dignified the old wild, free grace and poise.

"Uncle Jim!" she said, tremulously, with a different smile from any Venters had ever seen on
her face.

Lassiter took her into his arms.

"I reckon. It's powerful fine to hear that," replied Lassiter, unsteadily.

Venters, feeling his eyes grow hot and wet, turned away, and found himself looking at Jane
Withersteen. He had almost forgotten her presence. Tenderness and sympathy were fast hiding
traces of her agitation. Venters read her mind--felt the reaction of her noble heart--saw the
joy she was beginning to feel at the happiness of others. And suddenly blinded, choked by his
emotions, he turned from her also. He knew what she would do presently; she would make some
magnificent amend for her anger; she would give some manifestation of her love; probably all
in a moment, as she had loved Milly Erne, so would she love Elizabeth Erne.

"'Pears to me, folks, that we'd better talk a little serious now," remarked Lassiter, at length.
"Time flies."

"You're right," replied Venters, instantly. "I'd forgotten time--place--danger. Lassiter, you're
riding away. Jane's leaving Withersteen House?"

"Forever," replied Jane.

"I fired Withersteen House," said Lassiter.

"Dyer?" questioned Venters, sharply.

"I reckon where Dyer's gone there won't be any kidnappin' of girls."

"Ah! I knew it. I told Judkins--And Tull?" went on Venters, passionately.

"Tull wasn't around when I broke loose. By now he's likely on our trail with his riders."

"Lassiter, you're going into the Pass to hide till all this storm blows over?"

"I reckon that's Jane's idea. I'm thinkin' the storm'll be a powerful long time blowin' over.
I was comin' to join you in Surprise Valley. You'll go back now with me?"

"No. I want to take Bess out of Utah. Lassiter, Bess found gold in the valley. We've a saddle-bag
full of gold. If we can reach Sterling--"

"Man! how're you ever goin' to do that? Sterlin' is a hundred miles."

"My plan is to ride on, keeping sharp lookout. Somewhere up the trail we'll take to the sage
and go round Cottonwoods and then hit the trail again."

"It's a bad plan. You'll kill the burros in two days."

"Then we'll walk."

"That's more bad an' worse. Better go back down the Pass with me."

"Lassiter, this girl has been hidden all her life in that lonely place," went on Venters. "Oldring's
men are hunting me. We'd not be safe there any longer. Even if we would be I'd take this chance
to get her out. I want to marry her. She shall have some of the pleasures of life--see cities
and people. We've gold--we'll be rich. Why, life opens sweet for both of us. And, by Heaven!
I'll get her out or lose my life in the attempt!"

"I reckon if you go on with them burros you'll lose your life all right. Tull will have riders
all over this sage. You can't get out on them burros. It's a fool idea. That's not doin' best
by the girl. Come with me en' take chances on the rustlers."

Lassiter's cool argument made Venters waver, not in determination to go, but in hope of success.

"Bess, I want you to know. Lassiter says the trip's almost useless now. I'm afraid he's right.
We've got about one chance in a hundred to go through. Shall we take it? Shall we go on?"

"We'll go on," replied Bess.

"That settles it, Lassiter."

Lassiter spread wide his hands, as if to signify he could do no more, and his face clouded.

Venters felt a touch on his elbow. Jane stood beside him with a hand on his arm. She was smiling.
Something radiated from her, and like an electric current accelerated the motion of his blood.

"Bern, you'd be right to die rather than not take Elizabeth out of Utah--out of this wild country.
You must do it. You'll show her the great world, with all its wonders. Think how little she
has seen! Think what delight is in store for her! You have gold, You will be free; you will
make her happy. What a glorious prospect! I share it with you. I'll think of you--dream of
you--pray for you."

"Thank you, Jane," replied Venters, trying to steady his voice. "It does look bright. Oh, if
we were only across that wide, open waste of sage!"

"Bern, the trip's as good as made. It'll be safe--easy. It'll be a glorious ride," she said,
softly.

Venters stared. Had Jane's troubles made her insane? Lassiter, too, acted queerly, all at once
beginning to turn his sombrero round in hands that actually shook.

"You are a rider. She is a rider. This will be the ride of your lives," added Jane, in that
same soft undertone, almost as if she were musing to herself.

"Jane!" he cried.

"I give you Black Star and Night!"

"Black Star and Night!" he echoed.

"It's done. Lassiter, put our saddle-bags on the burros."

Only when Lassiter moved swiftly to execute her bidding did Venters's clogged brain grasp at
literal meanings. He leaped to catch Lassiter's busy hands.

"No, no! What are you doing?" he demanded, in a kind of fury. "I won't take her racers. What
do you think I am? It'd be monstrous. Lassiter! stop it, I say!... You've got her to save.
You've miles and miles to go. Tull is trailing you. There are rustlers in the Pass. Give me
back that saddle-bag!"

"Son--cool down," returned Lassiter, in a voice he might have used to a child. But the grip
with which he tore away Venters's grasping hands was that of a giant. "Listen--you fool boy!
Jane's sized up the situation. The burros'll do for us. Well sneak along an' hide. I'll take
your dogs an' your rifle. Why, it's the trick. The blacks are yours, an' sure as I can throw
a gun you're goin' to ride safe out of the sage."

"Jane--stop him--please stop him," gasped Venters. "I've lost my strength. I can't do--anything.
This is hell for me! Can't you see that? I've ruined you--it was through me you lost all. You've
only Black Star and Night left. You love these horses. Oh! I know how you must love them now!
And--you're trying to give them to me. To help me out of Utah! To save the girl I love!"

"That will be my glory."

Then in the white, rapt face, in the unfathomable eyes, Venters saw Jane Withersteen in a supreme
moment. This moment was one wherein she reached up to the height for which her noble soul had
ever yearned. He, after disrupting the calm tenor of her peace, after bringing down on her
head the implacable hostility of her churchmen, after teaching her a bitter lesson of life--he
was to be her salvation. And he turned away again, this time shaken to the core of his soul.
Jane Withersteen was the incarnation of selflessness. He experienced wonder and terror, exquisite
pain and rapture. What were all the shocks life had dealt him compared to the thought of such
loyal and generous friendship?

And instantly, as if by some divine insight, he knew himself in the remaking--tried, found
wanting; but stronger, better, surer--and he wheeled to Jane Withersteen, eager, joyous, passionate,
wild, exalted. He bent to her; he left tears and kisses on her hands.

"Jane, I--I can't find words--now," he said. "I'm beyond words. Only--I understand. And I'll
take the blacks."

"Don't be losin' no more time," cut in Lassiter. "I ain't certain, but I think I seen a speck
up the sage-slope. Mebbe I was mistaken. But, anyway, we must all be movin'. I've shortened
the stirrups on Black Star. Put Bess on him."

Jane Withersteen held out her arms.

"Elizabeth Erne!" she cried, and Bess flew to her.

How inconceivably strange and beautiful it was for Venters to see Bess clasped to Jane Withersteen's
breast!

Then he leaped astride Night.

"Venters, ride straight on up the slope," Lassiter was saying, "'an if you don't meet any riders
keep on till you're a few miles from the village, then cut off in the sage an' go round to
the trail. But you'll most likely meet riders with Tull. Jest keep right on till you're jest
out of gunshot an' then make your cut-off into the sage. They'll ride after you, but it won't
be no use. You can ride, an' Bess can ride. When you're out of reach turn on round to the west,
an' hit the trail somewhere. Save the hosses all you can, but don't be afraid. Black Star and
Night are good for a hundred miles before sundown, if you have to push them. You can get to
Sterlin' by night if you want. But better make it along about to-morrow mornin'. When you get
through the notch on the Glaze trail, swing to the right. You'll be able to see both Glaze
an' Stone Bridge. Keep away from them villages. I could not but be reminded of old Mayne Reid, as
I have been more than once since I came to the tropics; and I thought, if Reid had been still
living, I would have written to tell him that, for, me, IT HAD COME TRUE; and I thought, forbye,
that, if the great powers go on as they are going, and the Chief Justice delays, it would come
truer still; and the war-conch will sound in the hills, and my home
will be inclosed in camps, before the year is ended.

And all at once-mark you, how Mayne Reid is on the spot-a strange thing
happened.

I saw a liana stretch across the bed of the brook about breast-high, swung up my knife to sever
it, and-behold, it was a wire! On either hand it plunged into thick bush; to-morrow I shall see
where it goes and get a guess perhaps of what it means.

To-day I know no more than-there it is. A little higher the brook began to trickle, then to fill.
At last, as I meant to do some work upon the homeward trail, it was
time to turn.

I did not return by the stream; knife in hand, as long as my endurance lasted, I was to cut a path
in the congested bush. At first it went ill with me; I got badly stung
as high as the elbows by the stinging plant; I was nearly hung in
a tough liana-a rotten trunk giving way under my feet; it was deplorable
bad business.

And an axe-if I dared swing one-would have been more to the purpose than
my cutlass. Of a sudden things began to go strangely easier; I found
stumps, bushing out again; my body began to wonder, then my mind;
I raised my eyes and looked ahead; and, by George, I was no longer
pioneering, I had struck an old track overgrown, and was restoring
an old path.

So I laboured till I was in such a state that Carolina Wilhelmina Skeggs
could scarce have found a name for it.

Thereon desisted; returned to the stream; made my way down that
stony track to the garden, where the smoke was still hanging and the
sun was still in the high tree-tops, and so home. Here, fondly supposing
my long day was over, I rubbed down; exquisite agony; water spreads
the poison of these weeds; I got it all over my hands, on my chest,
in my eyes, and presently, while eating an orange, A LA Raratonga,
burned my lip and eye with orange juice.

Now, all day, our three small pigs had been adrift, to the mortal
peril of our corn, lettuce, onions, etc., and as I stood smarting
on the back verandah, behold the three piglings issuing from the wood
just opposite.

Instantly I got together as many boys as I could-three, and got the pigs
penned against the rampart of the sty, till the others joined; whereupon
we formed a cordon, closed, captured the deserters, and dropped them,
squeaking amain, into their strengthened barracks where, please God,
they may now stay!

Perhaps you may suppose the day now over; you are not the head of a plantation,
my juvenile friend. Politics succeeded: Henry got adrift in his English,
Bene was too cowardly to tell me what he was after: result, I have
lost seven good labourers, and had to sit down and write to you to
keep my temper.

Let me sketch my lads.-Henry-Henry has gone down to town or I could
not be writing to you-this were the hour of his English lesson else,
when he learns what he calls'long expessions'or'your chief's language'for
the matter of an hour and a half-Henry is a chiefling from Savaii;
I once loathed, I now like and-pending fresh discoveries-have a kind
of respect for Henry. I won't
be able to stay with you. You'll leave Tull and his riders as if they were standing still."

"How about you?"

"Never fear. If I can't stay with you I can still laugh at Tull."

"Look, Bern! They've stopped on that ridge. They see us."

"Yes. But we're too far yet for them to make out who we are. They'll recognize the blacks first.
We've passed most of the ridges and the thickest sage. Now, when I give the word, let Black
Star go and ride!"

Venters calculated that a mile or more still intervened between them and the riders. They were
approaching at a swift canter. Soon Venters recognized Tull's white horse, and concluded that
the riders had likewise recognized Black Star and Night. But it would be impossible for Tull
yet to see that the blacks were not ridden by Lassiter and Jane. Venters noted that Tull and
the line of horsemen, perhaps ten or twelve in number, stopped several times and evidently
looked hard down the slope. It must have been a puzzling circumstance for Tull. Venters laughed
grimly at the thought of what Tull's rage would be when he finally discovered the trick. Venters
meant to sheer out into the sage before Tull could possibly be sure who rode the blacks.

The gap closed to a distance to half a mile. Tull halted. His riders came up and formed a dark
group around him. Venters thought he saw him wave his arms and was certain of it when the riders
dashed into the sage, to right and left of the trail. Tull had anticipated just the move held
in mind by Venters.

"Now Bess!" shouted Venters. "Strike north. Go round those riders and turn west."

Black Star sailed over the low sage, and in a few leaps got into his stride and was running.
Venters spurred Night after him. It was hard going in the sage. The horses could run as well
there, but keen eyesight and judgment must constantly be used by the riders in choosing ground.
And continuous swerving from aisle to aisle between the brush, and leaping little washes and
mounds of the pack-rats, and breaking through sage, made rough riding. When Venters had turned
into a long aisle he had time to look up at Tull's riders. They were now strung out into an
extended line riding northeast. And, as Venters and Bess were holding due north, this meant,
if the horses of Tull and his riders had the speed and the staying power, they would head the
blacks and turn them back down the slope. Tull's men were not saving their mounts; they were
driving them desperately. Venters feared only an accident to Black Star or Night, and skilful
riding would mitigate possibility of that. One glance ahead served to show him that Bess could
pick a course through the sage as well as he. She looked neither back nor at the running riders,
and bent forward over Black Star's neck and studied the ground ahead.

It struck Venters, presently, after he had glanced up from time to time, that Bess was drawing
away from him as he had expected. He had, however, only thought of the light weight Black Star
was carrying and of his superior speed; he saw now that the black was being ridden as never
before, except when Jerry Card lost the race to Wrangle. How easily, gracefully, naturally,
Bess sat her saddle! She could ride! Suddenly Venters remembered she had said she could ride.
But he had not dreamed she was capable of such superb horsemanship. Then all at once, flashing
over him, thrilling him, came the recollection that Bess was Oldring's Masked Rider.

He forgot Tull--the running riders--the race. He let Night have a free rein and felt him lengthen
out to suit himself, knowing he would keep to Black Star's course, knowing that he had been
chosen by the best rider now on the upland sage. For Jerry Card was dead. And fame had rivaled
him with only one rider, and that was the slender girl who now swung so easily with Black Star's
stride. Venters had abhorred her notoriety, but now he took passionate pride in her skill,
her daring, her power over a horse. And he delved into his memory, recalling famous rides which
he had heard related in the villages and round the camp-fires. Oldring's Masked Rider! Many
times this strange rider, at once well known and unknown, had escaped pursuers by matchless
riding. He had to run the gantlet of vigilantes down the main street of Stone Bridge, leaving
dead horses and dead rustlers behind. He had jumped his horse over the Gerber Wash, a deep,
wide ravine separating the fields of Glaze from the wild sage. He had been surrounded north
of Sterling; and he had broken through the line. How often had been told the story of day stampedes,
of night raids, of pursuit, and then how the Masked Rider, swift as the wind, was gone in the
sage! A fleet, dark horse--a slender, dark form--a black mask--a driving run down the slope--a
dot on the purple sage--a shadowy, muffled steed disappearing in the night!

And this Masked Rider of the uplands had been Elizabeth Erne!

The sweet sage wind rushed in Venters's face and sang a song in his ears. He heard the dull,
rapid beat of Night's hoofs; he saw Black Star drawing away, farther and farther. He realized
both horses were swinging to the west. Then gunshots in the rear reminded him of Tull. Venters
looked back. Far to the side, dropping behind, trooped the riders. They were shooting. Venters
saw no puffs or dust, heard no whistling bullets. He was out of range. When he looked back
again Tull's riders had given up pursuit. The best they could do, no doubt, had been to get
near enough to recognize who really rode the blacks. Venters saw Tull drooping in his saddle.

Then Venters pulled Night out of his running stride. Those few miles had scarcely warmed the
black, but Venters wished to save him. Bess turned, and, though she was far away, Venters caught
the white glint of her waving hand. He held Night to a trot and rode on, seeing Bess and Black
Star, and the sloping upward stretch of sage, and from time to time the receding black riders
behind. Soon they disappeared behind a ridge, and he turned no more. They would go back to
Lassiter's trail and follow it, and follow in vain. So Venters rode on, with the wind growing
sweeter to taste and smell, and the purple sage richer and the sky bluer in his sight; and
the song in his ears ringing. By and by Bess halted to wait for him, and he knew she had come
to the trail. When he reached her it was to smile at sight of her standing with arms round
Black Star's neck.

"Oh, Bern! I love him!" she cried. "He's beautiful; he knows; and how he can run! I've had
fast horses. But Black Star!... Wrangle never beat him!"

"I'm wondering if I didn't dream that. Bess, the blacks are grand. What it must have cost Jane--ah!--well,
when we get out of this wild country with Star and Night, back to my old home in Illinois,
we'll buy a beautiful farm with meadows and springs and cool shade. There we'll turn the horses
free--free to roam and browse and drink--never to feel a spur again--never to be ridden!"

"I would like that," said Bess.

They rested. Then, mounting, they rode side by side up the white trail. The sun rose higher
behind them. Far to the left a low fine of green marked the site of Cottonwoods. Venters looked
once and looked no more. Bess gazed only straight ahead. They put the blacks to the long, swinging
rider's canter, and at times pulled them to a trot, and occasionally to a walk. The hours passed,
the miles slipped behind, and the wall of rock loomed in the fore. The Notch opened wide. It
was a rugged, stony pass, but with level and open trail, and Venters and Bess ran the blacks
through it. An old trail led off to the right, taking the line of the wall, and his Venters
knew to be the trail mentioned by Lassiter. 

The influence of civilization already appears in the dress of these people and in their use of
cattle. The second cut represents a small portion of the large burying-ground at Fort Berthold.
The wigwams in the third cut are mostly of skin, but generally canvas furnished by the Government
is now used. The arrangement of poles and the desolate appearance
of the tents scattered here and there are true to life.

In the sixth cut the heavy earrings and necklace are of wampum and
very valuable.

The dress, while cut in Indian fashion, is, like nearly all that
the Indians now wear, furnished by the Government.

The Indian in the fifth cut wears his hair long and tied up in two queues, with mink-skin pendants.
His constant companion, a pipe of red pipe-clay, is in his lap.

The lodge in the seventh cut admirably represents the peculiar homes
of Fort Berthold Indians.

It is very large, and sometimes divided into several rooms inside. It is well constructed as a
protection against the severe winters of Northern Dakota.

On the top of the lodge an Indian is standing. For many years the Indians of Fort Berthold
have been accustomed thus to look out across the Missouri, on the
watch, lest their ancient enemies, the Sioux, steal upon them unaware.

Beside the Indian may be seen the wicker framework of a "bull boator,"
skin coracle.

The Indians can seize these in a moment, run with them on their heads
to the river, and paddle across the Missouri with ease after a deer
or a buffalo.

In the foreground is a travoir, or Indian wagon, made of two poles
with a pouch of leather thongs slung between them.

A pony rather than a dog ordinarily drags this. Another cut represents the Santee Indian as he was
a few years ago. He now lives in a comfortable log-house, or often
in a frame house given him by the Government.

In the last cut are very good likenesses of two girls who are now at the Normal Training School
sustained by the American Missionary Associates at Santee. They are pure-blooded Indians. Their
father is a chief at Fort Berthold, who has turned from his wild life to become a regular attendant
at church and a thoughtful imitator of the white man's ways.

Two other cuts represent groups of school-children at Santee, all Indians. The artist has not
exaggerated the bright and attractive look upon their faces.

They come from all parts of Dakota and the Santee Reservation.

In the ninth cut is represented an Indian who, with a white man's shirt, retains his native leggings,
blanket, necklace and tomahawk.***** FORTY-FIVE YEARS IN WASHINGTON
TERRITORY.

REV. CUSHING EELS, D. D. From August 1838, to Sept., 1883, a period
of more than 45 consecutive years, I was a resident of what is now
Oregon and Washington Territory.

I spent the greater part of those years in what is included in Washington
Territory.

I was employed during the first ten years in mission work under the
patronage of the American Board in behalf of the Spokane Indians.

The massacre of Marcus Whitman, M. D., and others in the Walla Walla Valley, Nov., 1847, was followed
by war which necessitated the removal in 1848 of all Protestants
from the mission field east of the Cascade Mountains.

By military proclamation, June, 1848, the country named was declared closed
against missionaries.

It remained thus eleven years. June, 1859, by military proclamation, the Walla Walla country
was declared open for settlement.

In July of that year I, as agent of the A. B. C. F. M., went to Walla Walla to look after their interests.
Standing beside the grave of the distinguished patriot and martyr,
Dr. Whitman, I purposed to attempt the erection of a monument to
his memory in the form of a school of high Christian character.

The following Spring, 1860, I commenced work in fulfillment of the plan named. During the next 12
years the execution of that plan was with me all-controlling. In pursuance of said object I recently
returned to my native New England.

During my sojourn in Walla Walla from 1860 to 1872 I was favored with opportunities for the measurable
prosecution of evangelistic work among the Spokane Indians. In May, 1872, my house at the place
formerly occupied by Dr. Whitman was consumed by fire. My elder son had previously been nominated
by the American Missionary Association as Indian agent and confirmed by Government. Previous to his
taking charge the Lord's day had been distinguished for the performance of outlandish wickedness.
With the new agent there was change of employés.

A weekly prayer meeting was appointed and conducted. With a good degree of constancy it has
been continued to the present time. A Sunday-school was organized. It is continued with sustained
interest. Soon after the burning of my house in Walla Walla, Agent
Eells hastened thither and took his mother to his home.

Early the following autumn I joined dear ones at Skokomish. A new departure
was named. In pursuance thereof, with the interpreter, a devout Indian,
I conducted divine service at the Indian village. She noted indifferently that
they passed close under shady, bulging shelves of cliff, through patches of grass and sage
and thicket and groves of slender trees, and over white, pebbly washes, and around masses of
broken rock. The burros trotted tirelessly; the dogs, once more free, pattered tirelessly;
and Lassiter led on with never a stop, and at every open place he looked back. The shade under
the walls gave place to sunlight. And presently they came to a dense thicket of slender trees,
through which they passed to rich, green grass and water. Here Lassiter rested the burros for
a little while, but he was restless, uneasy, silent, always listening, peering under the trees.
She dully reflected that enemies were behind them--before them; still the thought awakened
no dread or concern or interest.

At his bidding she mounted and rode on close to the heels of his burro. The canyon narrowed;
the walls lifted their rugged rims higher; and the sun shone down hot from the center of the
blue stream of sky above. Lassiter traveled slower, with more exceeding care as to the ground
he chose, and he kept speaking low to the dogs. They were now hunting-dogs--keen, alert, suspicious,
sniffing the warm breeze. The monotony of the yellow walls broke in change of color and smooth
surface, and the rugged outline of rims grew craggy. Splits appeared in deep breaks, and gorges
running at right angles, and then the Pass opened wide at a junction of intersecting canyons.

Lassiter dismounted, led his burro, called the dogs close, and proceeded at snail pace through
dark masses of rock and dense thickets under the left wall. Long he watched and listened before
venturing to cross the mouths of side canyons. At length he halted, fled his burro, lifted
a warning hand to Jane, and then slipped away among the boulders, and, followed by the stealthy
dogs, disappeared from sight. The time he remained absent was neither short nor long to Jane
Withersteen.

When he reached her side again he was pale, and his lips were set in a hard line, and his gray
eyes glittered coldly. Bidding her dismount, he led the burros into a covert of stones and
cedars, and tied them.

"Jane, I've run into the fellers I've been lookin' for, an' I'm goin' after them," he said.

"Why?" she asked.

"I reckon I won't take time to tell you."

"Couldn't we slip by without being seen?"

"Likely enough. But that ain't my game. An' I'd like to know, in case I don't come back, what
you'll do."

"What can I do?"

"I reckon you can go back to Tull. Or stay in the Pass an' be taken off by rustlers. Which'll
you do?"

"I don't know. I can't think very well. But I believe I'd rather be taken off by rustlers."

Lassiter sat down, put his head in his hands, and remained for a few moments in what appeared
to be deep and painful thought. When he lifted his face it was haggard, lined, cold as sculptured
marble.

"I'll go. I only mentioned that chance of my not comin' back. I'm pretty sure to come."

"Need you risk so much? Must you fight more? Haven't you shed enough blood?"

"I'd like to tell you why I'm goin'," he continued, in coldness he had seldom used to her.
She remarked it, but it was the same to her as if he had spoken with his old gentle warmth.
"But I reckon I won't. Only, I'll say that mercy an' goodness, such as is in you, though they're
the grand things in human nature, can't be lived up to on this Utah border. Life's hell out
here. You think--or you used to think--that your religion made this life heaven. Mebbe them
scales on your eyes has dropped now. Jane, I wouldn't have you no different, an' that's why
I'm going to try to hide you somewhere in this Pass. I'd like to hide many more women, for
I've come to see there are more like you among your people. An' I'd like you to see jest how
hard an' cruel this border life is. It's bloody. You'd think churches an' churchmen would make
it better. They make it worse. You give names to things--bishops, elders, ministers, Mormonism,
duty, faith, glory. You dream--or you're driven mad. I'm a man, an' I know. I name fanatics,
followers, blind women, oppressors, thieves, ranchers, rustlers, riders. An' we have--what
you've lived through these last months. It can't be helped. But it can't last always. I have got in
a better vein with the South Sea book, as I think you will see; I
think these chapters will do for the volume without much change.

Those that I did in the JANET NICOLL, under the most ungodly circumstances, I fear will want a lot of
suppling and lightening, but I hope to have your remarks in a month or two upon that point.
It seems a long while since I have heard from you. I do hope you are well. I am wonderful, but
tired from so much work;'tis really immense what I have done; in the South Sea book I have
fifty pages copied fair, some of which has been four times, and all twice written, certainly fifty
pages of solid scriving inside a fortnight, but I was at it by seven a. m. till lunch, and from
two till four or five every day; between whiles, verse and blowing on the flageolet; never outside.
If you could see this place! but I don't want any one to see it till
my clearing is done, and my house built.

It will be a home for angels.

So far I wrote after my bit of dinner, some cold meat and bananas, on arrival. Then out to see
where Henry and some of the men were clearing the garden; for it was plain there was to be no
work to-day indoors, and I must set in consequence to farmering. I stuck a good while on the
way up, for the path there is largely my own handiwork, and there were a lot of sprouts and saplings
and stones to be removed. Then I reached our clearing just where the streams join in one; it had
a fine autumn smell of burning, the smoke blew in the woods, and the boys were pretty merry
and busy.

Now I had a private design:-[Map which cannot be reproduced] The
Vaita'e I had explored pretty far up; not yet the other stream, the
Vaituliga (g= nasal n, as ng in sing); and up that, with my wood knife,
I set off alone.

It is here quite dry; it went through endless woods; about as broad as a Devonshire lane, here and
there crossed by fallen trees; huge trees overhead in the sun, dripping lianas and tufted with
orchids, tree ferns, ferns depending with air roots from the steep banks, great arums-I had
not skill enough to say if any of them were the edible kind, one of our staples here!-hundreds
of bananas-another staple-and alas! I had skill enough to know all of these for the bad kind
that bears no fruit. My Henry moralised over this the other day;
how hard it was that the bad banana flourished wild, and the good
must be weeded and tended; and I had not the heart to tell him how
fortunate they were here, and how hungry were other lands by comparison.

The ascent of this lovely lane of my dry stream filled me with delight.
 That hole through my hand
is some inconvenient, worse 'n this at over my ear. There--you're doin' fine! Not a bit nervous--no
tremblin'. I reckon I ain't done your courage justice. I'm glad you're brave jest now--you'll
need to be. Well, I was hid pretty good, enough to keep them from shootin' me deep, but they
was slingin' lead close all the time. I used up all the rifle shells, an' en I went after them.
Mebbe you heard. It was then I got hit. Had to use up every shell in my own gun, an' they did,
too, as I seen. Rustlers an' Mormons, Jane! An' now I'm packin' five bullet holes in my carcass,
an' guns without shells. Hurry, now."

He unstrapped the saddle-bags from the burros, slipped the saddles and let them lie, turned
the burros loose, and, calling the dogs, led the way through stones and cedars to an open where
two horses stood.

"Jane, are you strong?" he asked.

"I think so. I'm not tired," Jane replied.

"I don't mean that way. Can you bear up?"

"I think I can bear anything."

"I reckon you look a little cold an' thick. So I'm preparin' you."

"For what?"

"I didn't tell you why I jest had to go after them fellers. I couldn't tell you. I believe
you'd have died. But I can tell you now--if you'll bear up under a shock?"

"Go on, my friend."

"I've got little Fay! Alive--bad hurt--but she'll live!"

Jane Withersteen's dead-locked feeling, rent by Lassiter's deep, quivering voice, leaped into
an agony of sensitive life.

"Here," he added, and showed her where little Fay lay on the grass.

Unable to speak, unable to stand, Jane dropped on her knees. By that long, beautiful golden
hair Jane recognized the beloved Fay. But Fay's loveliness was gone. Her face was drawn and
looked old with grief. But she was not dead--her heart beat--and Jane Withersteen gathered
strength and lived again.

"You see I jest had to go after Fay," Lassiter was saying, as he knelt to bathe her little
pale face. "But I reckon I don't want no more choices like the one I had to make. There was
a crippled feller in that bunch, Jane. Mebbe Venters crippled him. Anyway, that's why they
were holding up here. I seen little Fay first thing, en' was hard put to it to figure out a
way to get her. An' I wanted hosses, too. I had to take chances. So I crawled close to their
camp. One feller jumped a hoss with little Fay, an' when I shot him, of course she dropped.
She's stunned an' bruised--she fell right on her head. Jane, she's comin' to! She ain't bad hurt!"

Fay's long lashes fluttered; her eyes opened. At first they seemed glazed over. They looked
dazed by pain. Then they quickened, darkened, to shine with intelligence--bewilderment--memory--and
sudden wonderful joy.

"Muvver--Jane!" she whispered.

"Oh, little Fay, little Fay!" cried Jane, lifting, clasping the child to her.

"Now, we've got to rustle!" said Lassiter, in grim coolness. "Jane, look down the Pass!"

Across the mounds of rock and sage Jane caught sight of a band of riders filing out of the
narrow neck of the Pass; and in the lead was a white horse, which, even at a distance of a
mile or more, she knew.

"Tull!" she almost screamed.

"I reckon. But, Jane, we've still got the game in our hands. They're ridin' tired hosses. Venters
likely give them a chase. He wouldn't forget that. An' we've fresh hosses."

Hurriedly he strapped on the saddle-bags, gave quick glance to girths and cinches and stirrups,
then leaped astride.

"Lift little Fay up," he said.

With shaking arms Jane complied.

"Get back your nerve, woman! This's life or death now. Mind that. Climb up! Keep your wits.
Stick close to me. Watch where your hoss's goin' en' ride!"

Somehow Jane mounted; somehow found strength to hold the reins, to spur, to cling on, to ride.
A horrible quaking, craven fear possessed her soul. Lassiter led the swift flight across the
wide space, over washes, through sage, into a narrow canyon where the rapid clatter of hoofs
rapped sharply from the walls. The wind roared in her ears; the gleaming cliffs swept by; trail
and sage and grass moved under her. Lassiter's bandaged, blood-stained face turned to her;
he shouted encouragement; he looked back down the Pass; he spurred his horse. Jane clung on,
spurring likewise. And the horses settled from hard, furious gallop into a long-striding, driving
run. While dipping deepest, Bigelow and Jones fired both their carronades, the shot of which threw
the whole basin into foam. This combination of the means of assault was too much for savages
to resist. Waally was instantly routed. His main body retreated into the coves of the channel,
where their canoes lay, while the swimmers and stragglers got out of harm's way, in the best
manner they could.

Not a moment was to be lost. The Abraham was brought up by a hawser, as is usual, and was immediately
boarded by Mark, Bigelow and Wattles. This gave her a crew of five men, who were every way
equal to handling her.

Betts was left in command of the Reef, with the remainder of the forces. To make sail required
but two minutes, and Mark was soon under way, rounding Loam Island, or what had once been Loam Island,
for it was now connected with the hog pasture, in order to get into
the reach where Waally had his forces.

This reach was a quarter of a mile wide, and gave room for manoeuvring.

Although the schooner bore down to the assault with a very determined air, it was by no means
Mark's cue to come to close quarters. Being well to windward, with plenty of room, he kept the
Abraham tacking, yawing, waring, and executing other of the devices
of nautical delay, whilst his men loaded and fired her guns, as fast
as they could.

There were more noise and smoke, than there was bloodshed, as commonly happens on such occasions;
but these sufficed to secure the victory. The savages were soon in a real panic, and no authority
of Waally's could check their flight.

Away they paddled to leeward, straining every nerve to get away from
pursuers, whom they supposed to be murderously bent on killing them
to a man.

A more unequivocal flight never occurred in war.

Although the governor was much in earnest, he was riot half as bloodthirsty as his fleeing
enemies imagined. Every dictate of prudence told him not to close with the canoes until he
had plenty of sea-room. The course they were steering would take them all out of the group,
into the open water, in the course of three or four hours, and he
determined to follow at a convenient distance, just hastening the
flight by occasional hints from his guns.

In this manner, the people of the Abraham had much the easiest time
of it, for they did little besides sail, while the savages had to
use all their paddles to keep out of the schooner's way; they sailed,
also, but their speed under their cocoa-nut canvas was not sufficient
to keep clear of the Friend Abraham White, which proved to be a very
fast vessel, as well as one easily handled.

At length, Waally found his fleet in the open ocean, where he trusted the chase would end. But
he had greatly mistaken the course of events, in applying that'flattering
unction.'It was now that the governor commenced the chase in good
earnest, actually running down three of the canoes, and making prisoners
of one of the crews.

In this canoe was a young warrior, whom Bill Brown and Wattles at
once recognised as a favourite son of the chief.

Here was a most important conquest, and, Mark turned it to account.

He selected a proper agent from among the captives, and sent him
with a palm-branch to Waally himself, with proposals for an exchange.

There was no difficulty in communicating, since Brown and Wattles
both spoke the language of the natives with great fluency.

Three years of captivity had, at least, taught them that much.

A good deal of time was wasted before Waally could be brought to confide in the honour of his
enemies. At last, love for his offspring brought him, unarmed, alongside of the schooner,
and the governor met this formidable chief, face to face. He found the latter a wily and intelligent
savage. Nevertheless, he had not the art to conceal his strong affection for his son, and on that
passion did Mark Woolston play. Waally offered canoes, robes of feathers, whales'teeth, and
every thing that was most esteemed among his own people, as a ransom
for the boy. Lassiter reached it, searched along the base, and, finding a low place, dragged
the weary horse up and over round, smooth stone. Looking backward, Jane saw Tull's white horse
not a mile distant, with riders strung out in a long line behind him. Looking forward, she
saw more valley to the right, and to the left a towering cliff. Lassiter pulled the horse and
kept on.

Little Fay lay in her arms with wide-open eyes--eyes which were still shadowed by pain, but
no longer fixed, glazed in terror. The golden curls blew across Jane's lips; the little hands
feebly clasped her arm; a ghost of a troubled, trustful smile hovered round the sweet lips.
And Jane Withersteen awoke to the spirit of a lioness.

Lassiter was leading the horse up a smooth slope toward cedar trees of twisted and bleached
appearance. Among these he halted.

"Jane, give me the girl en' get down," he said. As if it wrenched him he unbuckled the empty
black guns with a strange air of finality. He then received Fay in his arms and stood a moment
looking backward. Tull's white horse mounted the ridge of round stone, and several bays or
blacks followed. "I wonder what he'll think when he sees them empty guns. Jane, bring your
saddle-bag and climb after me."

A glistening, wonderful bare slope, with little holes, swelled up and up to lose itself in
a frowning yellow cliff. Jane closely watched her steps and climbed behind Lassiter. He moved
slowly. Perhaps he was only husbanding his strength. But she saw drops of blood on the stone,
and then she knew. They climbed and climbed without looking back. Her breast labored; she began
to feel as if little points of fiery steel were penetrating her side into her lungs. She heard
the panting of Lassiter and the quicker panting of the dogs.

"Wait--here," he said.

Before her rose a bulge of stone, nicked with little cut steps, and above that a corner of
yellow wall, and overhanging that a vast, ponderous cliff.

The dogs pattered up, disappeared round the corner. Lassiter mounted the steps with Fay, and
he swayed like a drunken man, and he too disappeared. But instantly he returned alone, and
half ran, half slipped down to her.

Then from below pealed up hoarse shouts of angry men. Tull and several of his riders had reached
the spot where Lassiter had parted with his guns.

"You'll need that breath--mebbe!" said Lassiter, facing downward, with glittering eyes.

"Now, Jane, the last pull," he went on. "Walk up them little steps. I'll follow an' steady
you. Don't think. Jest go. Little Fay's above. Her eyes are open. She jest said to me, 'Where's
muvver Jane?'"

Without a fear or a tremor or a slip or a touch of Lassiter's hand Jane Withersteen walked
up that ladder of cut steps.

He pushed her round the corner of the wall. Fay lay, with wide staring eyes, in the shade of
a gloomy wall. The dogs waited. Lassiter picked up the child and turned into a dark cleft.
It zigzagged. It widened. It opened. Jane was amazed at a wonderfully smooth and steep incline
leading up between ruined, splintered, toppling walls. A red haze from the setting sun filled
this passage. Lassiter climbed with slow, measured steps, and blood dripped from him to make
splotches on the white stone. Jane tried not to step in his blood, but was compelled, for she
found no other footing. Anyway, he has deserved of us, and he must disappoint me sharply ere I give
him up.-Bene-or Peni-Ben, in plain English-is supposed to be my ganger; the Lord love him!
God made a truckling coward, there is his full history. He cannot tell me what he wants; he dares
not tell me what is wrong; he dares not transmit my orders or translate my censures. And with
all this, honest, sober, industrious, miserably smiling over the miserable issue of his own
unmanliness.-Paul-a German-cook and steward-a glutton of work-a splendid fellow; drawbacks,
three: (1) no cook; (2) an inveterate bungler; a man with twenty
thumbs, continually falling in the dishes, throwing out the dinner, preserving
the garbage; (3) a dr-, well, don't let us say that-but we daren't
let him go to town, and he-poor, good soul-is afraid to be let go.-Lafaele
(Raphael), a strong, dull, deprecatory man; splendid with an axe, if
watched; the better for a rowing, when he calls me'Papa'in the most
wheedling tones; desperately afraid of ghosts, so that he dare not walk alone
up in the banana patch-see map. The rest are changing labourers;
and to-night, owing to the miserable cowardice of Peni, who did not
venture to tell me what the men wanted-and which was no more than
fair-all are gone-and my weeding in the article of being finished!

Pity the sorrows of a planter.

"I wanted to roll it--meant to--but I--can't. Venters's valley is down behind here. We could--live
there. But if I roll the stone--we're shut in for always. I don't dare. I'm thinkin' of you!"

"Lassiter! Roll the stone!" she cried.

He arose, tottering, but with set face, and again he placed the bloody hand on the Balancing
Rock. Jane Withersteen gazed from him down the passageway. Tull was climbing. Almost, she thought,
she saw his dark, relentless face. Behind him more riders climbed. What did they mean for Fay--for
Lassiter--for herself?

"Roll the stone!... Lassiter, I love you!"

Under all his deathly pallor, and the blood, and the iron of seared cheek and lined brow, worked
a great change. He placed both hands on the rock and then leaned his shoulder there and braced
his powerful body.

ROLL THE STONE!

It stirred, it groaned, it grated, it moved, and with a slow grinding, as of wrathful relief,
began to lean. It had waited ages to fall, and now was slow in starting. Such a soul necessarily
required a lofty passion; and the affections of Madame de Dey were concentrated on a single
sentiment,-- that of motherhood. The happiness and pleasure of which her married life was deprived,
she found in the passionate love she bore her son. Dust shrouded the sunset red of
shaking rims; dust shrouded Tull as he fell on his knees with uplifted arms. Shafts and monuments
and sections of wall fell majestically.

From the depths there rose a long-drawn rumbling roar. The outlet to Deception Pass closed forever.

