Although most of the first volume is of minor literary importance, the second section which
appeared in 1728 as The History of the Pyrates commenced with a life "Of Captain Misson and
His Crew," one of Defoe's most remarkable and neglected works of fiction. In much the same
manner and at the same time that John Gay was satirizing Walpole's government in The Beggar's
Opera, Defoe began to use his pirates as a commentary on the injustice and hypocrisy of contemporary
English society. Among Defoe's gallery of pirates are Captain White, who refused to rob from
women and children; Captain Bellamy, the proletarian revolutionist; and captain North, whose
sense of justice and honesty was a rebuke to the corruption of government under Walpole. But
the fictional Captain Misson, the founder of a communist utopia, is by far the most original
of these creations.

If we were to accept the view of nineteenth-century critics, that Defoe was one of the earliest
exponents of laissez faire, his creation of a communist utopia would seem remarkable indeed.
But paradoxes fascinated Defoe, and his ideas can seldom be reduced to unambiguous platitudes.
He was especially fascinated by the comparison between businessmen and thieves. In 1707 he
urged the government to pardon the Madagascar pirates if they agreed to stop their crimes,
pay a large sum of money and "become honest Freeholders, as others of our West-India Pyrates,
Merchants I should have said, have done before them." And he noted that "it would make a sad
Chasm on the Exchange of London, if all the Pyrates should be taken away from the Merchants
there."[1] Twelve years later just before the start of the South Sea Bubble, Defoe attacked
stock-jobbing as "a Branch of Highway Robbing."[2]

Although these attacks were directed mainly at "trade thieves" and corruptions in business
practices, they reflect Defoe's growing concern with problems of poverty and wealth in England.
In his preface to the first volume of the General History of the Pyrates, Defoe argued that
the unemployed seaman had no choice but to "steal or starve."

Government on Captain Misson's ship, the Victoire, and in the colony of Libertalia is partially
an idealization of the pirate's creed. But two other elements which must be considered are,
first, the concept of government in the state of nature, and secondly, the ideal of the socialist
utopia. Most political theorists of Defoe's time postulated a state of nature in which man
lived either entirely free from government or under loose patriarchal control, from which he
was removed either by the invention of money, the discovery of agriculture or by some crime.
To a certain extent, Misson's pirate government may be regarded as a stage in the evolution
of government. In The Farther Adventures of Robinson Crusoe, Defoe showed how government evolved
from the anarchy of the state of nature. Both Crusoe's colony and Libertalia are eventually
forced to establish government, private property and criminal laws, but Libertalia, which retains
its egalitarian and democratic character, is overthrown by its failure to account for human
evil and crime.

A second influence on Captain Misson's ideology is Plutarch's description of the laws of Sparta
and Rome. Even during the "Anti- Communist Period" which followed the Glorious Revolution,
the well- regulated state of the Lacedemonians remained the norm for Utopias. The influence
of Plutarch pervades the biographies in the General History of the Pyrates. Lycurgus' laws
echo throughout Misson's attacks on luxury and the unequal distribution of wealth, while Plutarch's
study of Spartacus, which is mentioned in Defoe's preface, may well have been the model for
his hero.

But neither the desire to regain the purity of the state of nature nor an admiration for Spartan
simplicity entirely explain Misson's vigorous demand for freedom and his attacks on the corruption
of the ruling class. By refusing to fly the pirate flag, Misson dramatizes the growing revolt
of the poor against a useless nobility. The crew of the Victoire are, prophetically enough,
French. Their aspiration is for a society following the precepts of la carriere ouverte aux
talents; their revolt is that of a few courageous men unafraid to engage in the pirate's "war
against mankind" while those of lesser courage "dance to the Musick of their Chains."

Defoe's study of Misson is different from the Utopias of More, Bacon or Campanella in so far
as there is no discovery of an ideal civilization. Libertalia is a Utopia which reflects a
direct reaction to the abuses of the time--abuses of economic, political and religious freedom.
Anticipating Beccaria's criticism of the death penalty by almost forty years, Carracioli argues
that since man's right to life is inalienable, no government can have the power of capital
punishment.[4] Misson's belief in equality is extended to include the negro slaves the Victoire
takes at sea as well as the natives of Madagascar.

Slavery is banished from Misson's ship, and the negroes are schooled in the principles of freedom.

Perhaps the most difficult problem in discussing the principles of Misson and Carracioli is
to attempt an explanation of why Defoe, a Presbyterian, should have made his protagonists into
deists. If to be of thy activity is thus excellent, what is it somewhat to be a female enriched
by nature, make just by course, lowborn by nativity, tried on good, taken by beauty!-- a char, which
is the Libertalia ornament of elysium, the aglaia of moraine, the emotion of life, and the delight
of all signified, so drown the bonum of man'element actuality.
"Burn must have had so of the inspiration as which that which i have
underscore, when he write--" her'caraccioli dynasty'him excellent
on homo, and yet she make the girl Element!

"
 That on a voyage to Rome a young
man like Misson should be converted to deism by a disillusioned "lewd" priest was in harmony
with the traditional English belief in the dangers of Italy.[5] That Carracioli should combine
the rebellion against organized religion with the revolt against monarchy is indicative of
Defoe's keen apprehension of the future course of history.

Considered as a short novel, the history "Of Captain Misson and his Crew" reveals many of the
same techniques which Defoe used in his longer works. To gain a sense of verisimilitude the
narrator pretends to be working from a manuscript, a device which Defoe also employed in his
Memoirs of a Cavalier. As in Colonel Jack real historical figures and events from the War of
the Spanish Succession are woven into the adventures of the Victoire. Captain Misson and his
crew sink the Winchelsea, an English ship lost in the West Indies at the end of August, 1707,
and they barely escape from Admiral Wager's fleet which fought a famous battle there in 1708.
Even the name of Misson's ship, the Victoire; was undoubtedly familiar to Defoe as the vessel
commanded by the famous French corsair, Cornil Saus.[6] So convincing is Defoe that although
his hero is shown meeting a real freebooter, Captain Tew, ten years after Tew's death, Misson
is still included in the histories of piracy.[7]

Also typical of Defoe's fiction is the relationship between Captain Misson, the leader, and
his intellectual mentor, Carracioli. Colonel Jack and his tutor, Moll Flanders and her Governess
and particularly, Captain Singleton and William Walters form similar groups. Just as William
Walters, a Quaker, reminds Captain Singleton and the crew that their business is not fighting
but making money, so Carracioli addresses lengthy speeches to the crew, converting everyone
on the Victoire to democracy and deism. Misson's Libertalia takes root in Madagascar, where
Singleton wanted to establish a colony, while both Carracioli and Walters adapt the secular
aspects of their religion to piracy. But whereas Walters eventually converts Singleton into
an honest Christian, Carracioli leads Misson into piracy.

In the history "Of Captain Misson and his Crew," Defoe decided to pursue the same method of
third person narrative as in his brief biographies of real pirates. The result is that he merely
provides a sketch of political theories rather than a study of human beings. Of course there
are good reasons for this. Defoe was more interested in dramatizing proletarian utopian ideals
than in developing the inner workings of Misson's mind. The novelette is unified by its epic
theme, not by its study of character or its episodic plot.

Although Defoe toyed with radical notions throughout The History of the Pyrates, he had little
faith in their practicality. Libertalia must be understood as Defoe's best expression of political
and social ideals which he admired but considered unworkable. The continuation of Misson's
career in the section "Of Captain Tew" depicts the decline and fall of the utopia and the hero's
tragic death as a disillusioned idealist. This, however, is another story, a story which suggested
that private property was necessary, equality impossible and slavery a useful expedient for
colonization. It was a far more comforting message for the Augustan Age, but it could not silence
the tocsins of the French Revolution which sound throughout the speeches of Misson and Carracioli.

Maximillian E. Novak University of Michigan

Bibliographical Note

The text of "Of Captain Misson and His Crew" has been reproduced from the Henry E. Huntington
Library's first edition copy of the second volume of A General History of the Robberies and
Murders of the Most Notorious Pyrates which appeared under the title The History of the Pyrates.

Notes to the Introduction

[Footnote 1: Daniel Defoe, A Review of the Affairs of France, ed. A. W. Secord (New York, 1938),
IV, 424a.]

[Footnote 2: The Anatomy of Exchange--Alley (London, 1719), p. 8.]

[Footnote 3: A General History of the Robberies and Murders of the Most Notorious Pyrates (London,
1728), II, 220.]

[Footnote 4: See Cesare Beccaria, An Essay on Crimes and Punishments (Stanford, 1953), pp. 97-99.]

[Footnote 5: In the previous year Defoe had written that "it was the most dangerous thing in
the World for a young Gentleman, sober and virtuous, to venture into Italy, till he was thoroughly
grounded in Principle, ... for that nothing was more ordinary, than for such either to be seduc'd,
by the Subtlety of the Clergy, to embrace a false Religion, or by the Artifice of a worse Enemy,
to give up all Religion, and sink into Scepticism and Deism, or, perhaps, Atheism." A New Family
Instructor (London, 1727), p. 17.]

[Footnote 6: See Ruth Bourne, Queen Anne's Navy in the West Indies (New Haven, 1939), pp. 63,
169-172; and Manuscripts of the House of Lords, New Series (London, 1921), VII, 117-119.]

[Footnote 7: See Philip Gosse, The History of Piracy (New York, 1934), p. 194; and Patrick
Pringle, Jolly Roger (London, 1953), pp. 136-138.]

Omne tulit punctum, qui miscuit utile dulci.  Hor.

THE HISTORY OF THE PYRATES. VOL. II.

OF CAPTAIN MISSON.

We can be somewhat particular in the Life of this Gentleman, because, by very great Accident,
we have got into our Hands a French Manuscript, in which he himself gives a Detail of his Actions.
He was born in Provence, of an ancient Family; his Father, whose true Name he conceals, was
Master of a plentiful Fortune; but having a great Number of Children, our Rover had but little
Hopes of other Fortune than what he could carve out for himself with his Sword. His Parents
took Care to give him an Education equal to his Birth. After he had passed his Humanity and
Logick, and was a tolerable Mathematician, at the Age of Fifteen he was sent to Angiers, where
he was a Year learning His Exercises. His Father, at his Return home, would have put him into
the Musketeers; but as he was of a roving Temper, and much affected with the Accounts he had
read in Books of Travels, he chose the Sea as a Life which abounds with more Variety, and would
afford him an Opportunity to gratify his Curiosity, by the Change of Countries Having made
this Choice, his Father, with Letters of Recommendation, and every Thing fitting for him, sent
him Voluntier on board the Victoire, commanded by Monsieur Fourbin, his Relation. He was received
on Board with all possible Regard by the Captain, whose Ship was at Marseilles, and was order'd
to cruise soon after Misson's Arrival. Nothing could be more agreeable to the Inclinations
of our Voluntier than this Cruize, which made him acquainted with the most noted Ports of the
Mediterranean, and gave him a great Insight into the practical Part of Navigation. He grew
fond of this Life, and was resolved to be a compleat Sailor, which made him always one of the
first on a Yard Arm, either to Hand or Reef, and very inquisitive in the different Methods
of working a Ship: His Discourse was turn'd on no other Subject, and he would often get the
Boatswain and Carpenter to teach him in their Cabbins the constituent Parts of a Ship's Hull,
and how to rigg her, which he generously paid 'em for; and tho' he spent a great Part of his
Time with these two Officers, yet he behaved himself with such Prudence that they never attempted
at a Familiarity, and always paid the Respect due to his Family. The Ship being at Naples,
he obtained Leave of his Captain to go to Rome, which he had a great Desire to visit. Hence
we may date his Misfortunes; for, remarking the licentious Lives of the Clergy (so different
from the Regularity observ'd among the French Ecclesiasticks,) the Luxury of the Papal Court,
and that nothing but Hulls of Religion was to be found in the Metropolis of the Christian Church,
he began to figure to himself that all Religion was no more than a Curb upon the Minds of the
Weaker, which the wiser Sort yielded to, in Appearance only. These Sentiments, so disadvantageous
to Religion and himself, were strongly riveted by accidentally becoming acquainted with a lewd
Priest, who was, at his Arrival (by meer Chance) his Confessor, and after that his Procurer
and Companion, for he kept him Company to his Death. One Day, having an Opportunity, he told
Misson, a Religious was a very good Life, where a Man had a subtle enterprising Genius, and
some Friends; for such a one wou'd, in a short Time, rise to such Dignities in the Church,
the Hopes of which was the Motive of all the wiser Sort, who voluntarily took upon them the
sacerdotal Habit. That the ecclesiastical State was govern'd with the same Policy as were secular
Principalities and Kingdoms; that what was beneficial, not what was meritorious and virtuous,
would be alone regarded. That there were no more Hopes for a Man of Piety and Learning in the
Patrimony of St. Peter, than in any other Monarchy, nay, rather less; for this being known
to be real, that Man's rejected as a Visionary, no way fit for Employment; as one whose Scruples
might prove prejudicial; for its a Maxim, that Religion and Politicks can never set up in one
House. As to our Statesmen, don't imagine that the Purple makes 'em less Courtiers than are
those of other Nations; they know and pursue the Reggione del Stato (a Term of Art which means
Self-Interest) with as much Cunning and as little Conscience as any Secular; and are as artful
where Art is required, and as barefaced and impudent when their Power is great enough to support
'em, in the oppressing the People, and aggrandizing their Families. What their Morals are,
you may read in the Practice of their Lives, and their Sentiments of Religion from this Saying
of a certain Cardinal, Quantum Lucrum ex ista fabula Christi! which many of 'em may say, tho'
they are not so foolish. For my Part, I am quite tir'd of the Farce, and will lay hold on the
first Opportunity to throw off this masquerading Habit; for, by Reason of my Age, I must act
an under Part many Years; and before I can rise to share the Spoils of the People, I shall,
I fear, be too old to enjoy the Sweets of Luxury; and, as I am an Enemy to Restraint, I am
apprehensive I shall never act up to my Character, and carry thro' the Hypocrite with Art enough
to rise to any considerable Post in the Church. My Parents did not consult my Genius, or they
would have given me a Sword instead of a Pair of Beads.

Misson advised him to go with him Voluntier, and offer'd him Money to cloath him; the Priest
leap'd at the Proposal, and a Letter coming to Misson from his Captain, that he was going to
Leghorn, and left to him either to come to Naples, or go by Land; he chose the latter, and
the Dominican, whom he furnish'd with Money, clothing himself very Cavalierly, threw off his
Habit, and preceeded him two Days, staying at Pisa for Misson; from whence they went together
to Leghorn, where they found the Victoire, and Signor Caraccioli, recommended by his Friend,
was received on Board. Two Days after they weigh'd from hence, and after a Week's Cruize fell
in with two Sally Men, the one of twenty, the other of twenty four Guns; the Victoire had but
thirty mounted, though she had Ports for forty. The Engagement was long and bloody, for the
Sally Man hop'd to carry the Victoire; and, on the contrary, Captain Fourbin, so far from having
any Thoughts of being taken, he was resolutely bent to make Prize of his Enemies, or sink his
Ship. One of the Sally Men was commanded by a Spanish Renegade, (though he had only the Title
of a Lieutenant) for the Captain was a young Man who knew little of Marine Affairs.

This Ship was called the Lyon; and he attempted, more than once, to board the Victoire, but
by a Shot betwixt Wind and Water, he was obliged to sheer off, and running his Guns, &c. on
one Side, bring her on the careen to stop his Leak; this being done with too much Precipitation,
she overset, and every Soul was lost: His Comrade seeing this Disaster, threw out all his small
sails, and endeavour'd to get off, but the Victoire wrong'd her, and oblig'd her to renew the
Fight, which she did with great Obstinacy, and made Monsieur Fourbin despair of carrying her
if he did not board; he made Preparations accordingly. Signior Caraccioli and Misson were the
two first on board when the Command was given; but they and their Followers were beat back
by the Despair of the Sally Men; the former received a Shot in his Thigh, and was carried down
to the Surgeon. The Victoire laid her on board the second time, and the Sally Men defended
their Decks with such Resolution, that they were cover'd with their own, and the dead Bodies
of their Enemies. Misson seeing one of 'em jump down the Main-Hatch with a lighted Match, suspecting
his Design, resolutely leap'd after him, and reaching him with his Sabre, laid him dead the
Moment he going to set Fire to the Powder. The Victoire pouring in more Men, the Mahometans
quitted the Decks, finding Resistance vain, and fled for Shelter to the Cook Room, Steerage
and Cabbins, and some run between Decks. The French gave 'em Quarters, and put the Prisoners
on board the Victoire, the Prize yielding nothing worth mention, except Liberty to about fifteen
Christian Slaves; she was carried into and sold with the Prisoners at [text unreadable]. The
Turks lost a great many Men, the French not less than 35 in boarding, for they lost very few
by the great Shot, the Sally Men firing mostly at the Masts and Rigging, hoping by disabling
to carry her. The limited Time of  their Cruize being out, the Victoire returned to Marseilles,
from whence Misson, taking his Companion, went to visit his Parents, to whom the Captain sent
a very advantageous Character, both of his Courage and Conduct. He was about a Month at home
when his Captain wrote to him, that his Ship was ordered to Rochelle, from whence he was to
sail for the West-Indies with some Merchant Men. This was very agreeable to Misson and Signior
Caraccioli, who immediately set out for Marseilles. This Town is well fortified, has four Parish
Churches, and the Number of Inhabitants is computed to be about 120,0000; the Harbour is esteemed
the safest in the Mediterranean, and is the common Station for the French Gallies.

Leaving this Place, they steer'd for Rochelle, where the Victoire was dock'd, the Merchant
Ships not being near ready. Misson, who did not Care to pass so long a Time in Idleness, proposed
to his Comrade the taking a Cruize on board the Triumph, who was going into the English Channel;
the Italian readily contented to it.

Between the Isle of Guernsey and the Start Point they met with the Mayflower, Captain Balladine
Commanded, a Merchant Ship of 18 Guns, richly laden, and coming from Jamaica. The Captain of
the English made a gallant resistance, and fought his Ship so long, that the French could not
carry her into Harbour, wherefore they took the Money, and what was most valuable, out of her;
and finding she made more Water than the Pumps could free, quitted, and saw her go down in
less than four Hours after. Monsieur le Blanc, the French Captain, received Captain Balladine
very civilly, and would not suffer either him or his Men to be stripp'd, saying, None but Cowards
ought be treated after that Manner; that brave Men ought to treat such, though their Enemies,
as Brothers; and that to use a gallant Man (who does his Duty) ill, speaks a Revenge which
cannot proceed but from a Coward Soul. He order'd that the Prisoners should leave their Chests;
and when some of his Men seem'd to mutter, he bid 'em remember the Grandeur of the Monarch
they serv'd; that they were neither Pyrates nor Privateers; and, as brave Men, they ought to
shew their Enemies an Example they would willingly have follow'd, and use their Prisoners as
they wish'd to be us'd.

They running up the English Channel as high as Beachy Head, and, in returning, fell in with
three fifty Gun Ships, which gave Chace to the Triumph; but as she was an excellent Sailor,
she run 'em out of Sight in seven Glasses, and made the best of her Way for the Lands-End they
here cruized eight Days, then doubling Cape Cornwall, ran up the Bristol Channel, near as far
as Nash Point, and intercepted a small Ship from Barbadoes, and stretching away to the Northward,
gave Chase to a Ship they saw in the Evening, but lost her in the Night. The Triumph stood
then towards Milford and spying a Sail, endeavour'd to cut her off the Land, but found it impossible;
for she got into the Haven, though they came up with her very fast, and she had surely been
taken, had the Chase had been any thing longer.

Captain Balladine, who took the Glass, said it was the Port Royal, a Bristol Ship which left
Jamaica in Company with him and the Charles. They now return'd to their own Coast, and sold
their Prize at Brest, where, at his Desire, they left Captain Balladine, and Monsieur le Blanc
made him a Present of Purse with 40 Louis's for his Support; his Crew were also left here.

At the Entrance into this Harbour the Triumph struck upon a Rock, but receiv'd no Damage: This
Entrance, called Genlet, is very dangerous on Account of the Number of Rocks which lie on each
Side under Water, though the Harbour is certainly the best in France. The Mouth of the Harbour
is defended by a strong Castle; the Town is well fortified, and has a Citadel for its farther
Defence, which is of considerable Strength. In 1694 the English attempted a Descent, but did
not find their Market, for they were beat off with the Loss of their General, and a great many
Men. From hence the Triumph return'd to Rochel, and in a Month after our Voluntiers, who went
on board the Victoire, took their Departure for Martineco and Guadalupe; they met with nothing
in their Voyage thither worth noting.

I shall only observe, that Signior Caraccioli, who was as ambitious as he was irreligious,
had, by this Time, made a perfect Deist of Misson, and thereby convinc'd him, that all Religion
was no other than human Policy, and shew'd him that the Law of Moses was no more than what
were necessary, as well for the Preservation as the Governing of the People; for Instance,
said he, the African Negroes never heard of the Institution of Circumcision, which is said
to be the Sign of the Covenant made between God and this People, and yet they circumcise their
Children; doubtless for the same Reason the Jews and other Nations do, who inhabit the Southern
Climes, the Prepuce consolidating the perspired Matter, which is of a fatal Consequence. In
short, he ran through all the Ceremonies of the Jewish, Christian and Mahometan Religion, and
convinced him these were, as might be observed by the Absurdity of many, far from being Indications
of Men inspired; and that Moses, in his Account of the Creation, was guilty of known Blunders;
and the Miracles, both in the New and Old Testament, inconsistent with Reason. That God had
given us this Blessing, to make Use of for our present and future Happiness, and whatever was
contrary to it, notwithstanding their School Distinctions of contrary and above Reason, must
be false. This Reason teaches us, that there is a first Cause of all Things, an Ens Entium,
which we call God, and our Reason will also suggest, that he must be eternal, and, as the Author
of every Thing perfect, he must be infinitely perfect.

If so, he can be subject to no Passions, and neither loves nor hates; he must be ever the fame,
and cannot rashly do to Day what he shall repent to Morrow. He must be perfectly happy, consequently
nothing can add to an eternal State of Tranquillity, and though it becomes us to adore him,
yet can our Adorations neither augment, nor our Sins take from this Happiness.

But his Arguments on this Head are too long, and too dangerous to translate; and as they are
work'd up with great Subtlety, they may be pernicious to weak Men, who cannot discover their
Fallacy; or, who finding 'em agreeable to their Inclinations, and would be glad to shake off
the Yoke of the Christian Religion, which galls and curbs their Passions, would not give themselves
the Trouble to examine them to the Bottom, but give into what pleases, glad of finding some
Excuse to their Consciences. Though as his Opinion of a future State has nothing in it which
impugns the Christian Religion, I shall set it down in few Words.

That reasoning Faculty, says he, which we perceive within us, we call the Soul, but what that
Soul is, is unknown to us. It may die with the Body, or it may survive. I am of Opinion its
immortal; but to say that this Opinion is the Dictate of Reason, or only the Prejudice of Education,
would, I own, puzzle me. If it is immortal, it must be an Emanation from the Divine Being,
and consequently at its being separated from the Body, will return to its first Principle,
if not contaminated. Now, my Reason tells me, if it is estranged from its first Principle,
which is the Deity, all the Hells of Man's Invention can never yield Tortures adequate to such
a Banishment.

As he had privately held these Discourses among the Crew, he had gained a Number of Proselytes,
who look'd upon him as a new Prophet risen up to reform the Abuses in Religion; and a great
Number being Rochellers, and, as yet, tainted with Calvinism, his Doctrine was the more readily
embrac'd. When he had experienced the Effects of his religious Arguments, he fell upon Government,
and shew'd, that every Man was born free, and had as much Right to what would support him,
as to the Air he respired. A contrary Way of arguing would be accusing the Deity with Cruelty
and Injustice, for he brought into the World no Man to pass a Life of Penury, and to miserably
want a necessary Support; that the vast Difference between Man and Man, the one wallowing in
Luxury, and the other in the most pinching Necessity, was owing only to Avarice and Ambition
on the one Hand, and a pusillanimous Subjection on the other; that at first no other than a
Natural was known, a paternal Government, every Father was the Head, the Prince and Monarch
of his Family, and Obedience to such was both just and easy, for a Father had a compassionate
Tenderness for his Children; but Ambition creeping in by Degrees, the stronger Family set upon
and enslaved the Weaker; and this additional Strength over-run a third, by every Conquest gathering
Force to make others, and this was the first Foundation of Monarchy. Pride encreasing with
Power, Man usurped the Prerogative of God, over his Creatures, that of depriving them of Life,
which was a Privilege no one had over his own; for as he did not come into the World by his
own Election, he ought to stay the determined Time of his Creator: That indeed, Death given
in War, was by the Law of Nature allowable, because it is for the Preservation of our own Lives;
but no Crime ought to be thus punished, nor indeed any War undertaken, but in Defence of our
natural Right, which is such a Share of Earth as is necessary for our Support.

These Topicks he often declaimed on, and very often advised with Misson about the setting up
for themselves; he was as ambitious as the other, and as resolute. Caraccioli and Misson were
by this expert Mariners, and very capable of managing a Ship: Caraccioli had founded a great
many of the Men on this Subject, and found them very inclineable to listen to him. An Accident
happen'd which gave Caraccioli a fair Opportunity to put his Designs in Execution, and he laid
Hold of it; they went off Martinico on a Cruize, and met with the Winchelsea, an English Man
of War of 40 Guns, commanded by Captain Jones; they made for each other, and a very smart Engagement
followed, the first Broadside killed the Captain, second Captain, and the three Lieutenants,
on Board the Victoire and left only the Master, who would have struck, but Misson took up the
Sword, order'd Caraccioli to act as Lieutenant, and encouraging the Men fought the Ship six
Glasses, when by some Accident, the Winchelsea blew up, and not a Man was saved but Lieutenant
Franklin, whom the French Boats took up, and he died in two Days. None ever knew before this
Manuscript fell into my Hands how the Winchelsea was lost; for her Head being driven ashore
at Antegoa, and a great Storm having happend a few Days before her Head was found, it was concluded,
that she founder'd in that Storm. After this Engagement, Caraccioli came to Misson and saluted
him Captain, and desired to know if he would chuse a momentary or a lasting Command, that he
must now determine, for at his Return to Martinico it would be too late; and he might depend
upon the Ship he fought and saved being given to another, and they would think him well rewarded
if made a Lieutenant, which Piece of Justice he doubted: That he had his Fortune in his Hands,
which he might either keep or let go; if he made Choice of the latter, he must never again
expect she would court him to accept her Favours: That he ought to let before his Eyes his
Circumstances, as a younger Brother of a good Family, but nothing to support his Character;
and the many Years he must serve at the Expence of his Blood before he could make any Figure
in the World; and consider the wide Difference between the commanding and being commanded:
That he might with the Ship he had under Foot, and the brave Fellows under Command, bid Defiance
to the Power of Europe, enjoy every Thing he wish'd, reign Sovereign of the Southern Seas,
and lawfully make War on all the World, since it would deprive him of that Liberty to which
he had a Right by the Laws of Nature: That he might in Time, become as great as Alexander was
to the Persians; and by encreasing his Forces by his Captures, he would every Day strengthen
the Justice of his Cause, for who has Power is always in the Right. That Harry the Fourth and
Harry the Seventh, attempted and succeeded in their Enterprizes on the Crown of England, yet
their Forces did not equal his. Mahomet with a few Camel Drivers, founded the Ottoman Empire
and Darius, with no more than six or seven Companions got Possession on of that of Persia.

In a Word he said so much that Misson resolved to follow his Advice, and calling up all Hands,
he told them, 'That a great Number of them had resolved with him upon a Life of Liberty, and
had done him the Honour to create him Chief: That he designed to force no Man, and be guilty
of that Injustice he blamed in others; therefore, if any were averse to the following his Fortune,
which he promised should be the same to all, he desired they would declare themselves, and
he would set them ashore, whence they might return with Conveniency;' having made an End, they
one and all cryed, Vive le Capitain Misson et son Lieutenant le Seavant Caraccioli, God bless
Capt. Misson and his learned Lieutenant Caraccioli. Misson thanked them for the Honour they
conferr'd upon him, and promised he would use the Power they gave for the publick Good only,
and hoped, as they had the Bravery to assert their Liberty, they would be as unanimous in the
preserving it, and stand by him in what should be found expedient for the Good of all; that
he was their Friend and Companion, and should never exert his Power, or think himself other
than their Comrade, but when the Necessity of Affairs should oblige him.

They shouted a second Time, vive le Capitain; he, after this, desired they would chuse their
subaltern Officers, and give them Power to consult and conclude upon what might be for the
common Interest, and bind themselves down by an Oath to agree to what such Officers and he
should determine: This they readily gave into. The School-Master they chose for second Lieutenant,
Jean Besace they nominated for third, and the Boatswain, and a Quarter-Master, named Matthieu
le Tondu, with the Gunner, they desired might be their Representatives in Council.

The Choice was approved, and that every Thing might pass methodically, and with general Approbation,
they were called into the great Cabbin, and the Question put, what Course they should steer?
The Captain proposed the Spanish Coast as the most probable to afford them rich Prizes: This
was agreed upon by all. The Boatswain then asked what Colours they should fight under, and
advised Black as most terrifying; but Caraccioli objected, that they were no Pyrates, but Men
who were resolved to assert that Liberty which God and Nature gave them, and own no Subjection
to any, farther than was for the common Good of all: That indeed, Obedience to Governors was
necessary, when they knew and acted up to the Duty of their Function; were vigilant Guardians
of the Peoples Rights and Liberties; saw that Justice was equally distributed; were Barriers
against the Rich and Powerful, when they attempted to oppress the Weaker; when they suffered
none of the one Hand to grow immensely rich, either by his own or his Ancestors Encroachments;
nor on the other, any to be wretchedly miserable, either by falling into the Hands of Villains,
unmerciful Creditors, or other Misfortunes. While he had Eyes impartial, and allowed nothing
but Merit to distinguish between Man and Man; and instead of being a Burthen to the People
by his luxurious life, he was by his Care for, and Protection of them, a real Father, and in
every Thing acted with the equal and impartial Justice of a Parent: But when a Governor, who
is the Minister of the People, thinks himself rais'd to this Dignity, that he may spend his
Days in Pomp and Luxury, looking upon his Subjects as so many Slaves, created for his Use and
Pleasure, and therefore leaves them and their Affairs to the immeasurable Avarice and Tyranny
of some one whom he has chosen for his Favourite, when nothing but Oppression, Poverty, and
all the Miseries of Life flow from such an Administration; that he lavishes away the Lives
and Fortunes of the People, either to gratify his Ambition, or to support the Cause of some
neighbouring Prince, that he may in Return, strengthen his Hands should his People exert themselves
in Defence of their native Rights; or should he run into unnecessary Wars, by the rash and
thoughtless Councils of his Favourite, and not able to make Head against the Enemy he has rashly
or wantonly brought upon his Hands, and buy a Peace (which is the present Case of France, as
every one knows, by supporting King James, and afterwards proclaiming his Son) and drain the
Subject; should the Peoples Trade be wilfully neglected, for private Interests, and while their
Ships of War lie idle in their Harbours, suffer their Vessels to be taken; and the Enemy not
only intercepts all Commerce, but insults their Coasts: It speaks a generous and great Soul
to shake off the Yoak; and if we cannot redress our Wrongs, withdraw from sharing the Miseries
which meaner Spirits submit to, and scorn to yield to the Tyranny. Such Men are we, and, if
the World, as Experience may convince us it will, makes War upon us, the Law of Nature empowers
us not only to be on the defensive, but also on the offensive Part. As we then do not proceed
upon the same Ground with Pyrates, who are Men of dissolute Lives and no Principles, let us
scorn to take their Colours: Ours is a brave, a just, an innocent, and a noble Cause; the Cause
of Liberty. I therefore advise a white Ensign, with Liberty painted in the Fly, and if you
like the Motto, a Deo a Libertate, for God and Liberty, as an Emblem of our Uprightness and
Resolution. This short Council breaking up, every Thing belonging to the deceased Captain,
and the other Officers, and Men lost in the Engagement, was brought upon Deck and over-hawled;
the Money ordered to be put into a Chest, and the Carpenter to clap on a Padlock for, and give
a Key to, every one of the Council: Misson telling them, all should be in common, and the particular
Avarice of no one should defraud the Publick.

When the Plate Monsieur Fourbin had, was going to the Chest, the Men unanimously cried out
avast, keep that out for the Captain's Use, as a Present from his Officers and Fore-mast Men.
Misson thanked them, the Plate was returned to the great Cabbin, and the Chest secured according
to Orders: Misson then ordered his Lieutenants and other Officers to examine who among the
Men, were in most Want of Cloaths, and to distribute those of the dead Men impartially, which
was done with a general Content and Applause of the whole Crew: All but the wounded being upon
Deck. Misson from the Baracade, spoke to the following Purpose, 'That since they had unanimously
resolved to seize upon and defend their Liberty, which ambitious Men had usurped, and that
this could not be esteemed by impartial Judges other than a just and brave Resolution, he was
under an Obligation to recommend to them a brotherly Love to each other; the Banishment of
all private Piques and Grudges, and a swift Agreement and Harmony among themselves: That in
throwing off the Yoak of Tyranny of which the Action spoke an Abhorrence, he hoped none would
follow the Example of Tyrants, and turn his Back upon Justice; for when Equity was trodden
under Foot, Misery, Confusion, and mutual Distrust naturally followed.'--He also advised them
to remember there was a Supream; the Adoration of which, Reason and Gratitude prompted us,
and our own Interests would engage us (as it is best to be of the surest Side, and after-Life
was allowed possible) to conciliate. --That he was satisfied Men who were born and bred in
Slavery, by which their Spirits were broke, and were incapable of so generous a Way of thinking,
who, ignorant of their Birth-Right, and the Sweets of Liberty, dance to the Musick of their
Chains, which was, indeed, the greater Part of the Inhabitants of the Globe, would brand this
generous Crew with the insidious Name of Pyrates, and think it meritorious, to be instrumental
in their Destruction.--Self-Preservation therefore, and not a cruel Disposition, obliged him
to declare War against all such as should refuse him the Entry of their Ports, and against
all, who should not immediately surrender and give up what their Necessities required; but
in a more particular Manner against all European Ships and Vessels, as concluded implacable
Enemies. And I do now, said he, declare such War, and, at the same time, recommend to you my
Comrades a humane and generous Behaviour towards your Prisoners; which will appear by so much
more the Effects of a noble Soul, as we are satisfied we should not meet the same Treatment
should our ill Fortune, or more properly our Disunion, or want of Courage, give us up to their
Mercy.

After this, he required a Muster should be made, and there were able Hands two Hundred, and
thirty five sick and wounded; as they were muster'd they were sworn. After Affairs were thus
settled, they shaped their Course the Spanish West-Indies, but resolved, in the Way, to take
a Week or ten Days Cruize in the Windward Passage from Jamaica, because most Merchant Men,
which were good Sailors and did not slay for Convoy, took this as the shorter Cut for England.

Off St. Christophers they took an English Sloop becalmed, with their Boats; they took out of
her a couple of Puncheons of Rum, and half a dozen Hogsheads of Sugar (she was a New England
Sloop, bound for Boston) and without offering the least Violence to the Men, or stripping them,
they let her go. The Master of the Sloop was Thomas Butler, who owned, he never met with so
candid an Enemy as the French Man of War, which took him the Day he left St. Christophers;
they met with no other Booty in their Way, till they came upon their Station, when after three
Days, they saw a Sloop which had the Impudence to give them Chace; Captain Misson asked what
could be the Meaning that the Sloop stood for them? One of the Men, who was acquainted with
the West- Indies, told him, it was a Jamaica Privateer, and he should not wonder, if he clapp'd
him aboard. I am, said he, no Stranger to their Way of working, and this despicable Fellow,
as those who don't know a Jamaica Privateer may think him, it is ten to one will give you some
Trouble. It now grows towards Evening, and you'll find as soon as he has discovered your Force,
he'll keep out of the Reach of your Guns till the 12 a-Clock Watch is changed at Night, and
he'll then attempt to clap you aboard, with Hopes to carry you in the Hurry: Wherefore Captain,
if you will give me Leave to advise you, let every Man have his small Arms; and at twelve,
let the Bell ring as usual; and rather more Noise than ordinary be made, as if the one Watch
was turning in, and the other out, in a Confusion and Hurry, and I'll engage he will venture
to enter his Men. The Fellow's Advice was approved and resolved upon, and the Sloop work'd,
as he said she would, for upon coming near enough to make distinctly the Force of the Victoire,
on her throwing out French Colours, she, the Sloop, clapp'd upon a Wind, the Victoire gave
Chace, but without Hopes of gaining upon her; she went so well to Windward, that she cou'd
spare the Ship some Points in her Sheet, and yet wrong her: At Dusk of the Even, the French
had lost Sight of her, but about Eleven at Night, they saw her hankering up their Windward
Bow, which confirmed the Sailors Opinion, that she would attempt to board them, as she did
at the pretended Change of the Watch; there being little or no Wind, she lashed to the Bow-Sprit
of the Victoire and enter'd her Men, who were very quietly taken, as they enter'd and tumbled
down the Forehatch, where they were received by others, and bound without Noise, not one of
the Privateers killed, few hurt, and only one Frenchman wounded. The Victoire the better Part
of the Sloop's Men secured, they boarded in their Turn, when the Privateer's suspecting some
Stratagem, were endeavouring to cut their Lashing and get off:

Thus the Englishman caught a Tartar. The Prisoners being all secured, the Captain charged his
Men not to discover, thro' a Desire of augmenting their Number, the Account they were upon.

The next Morning Monsieur Misson called for the Captain of the Privateer, he told him, he could
not but allow him a brave Fellow, to venture upon a Ship of his Countenance, and for that Reason
he should meet Treatment which Men of his Profession seldom afforded the Prisoners they made.
He asked him how long he had been out, what was his Name, and what he had on Board? He answered
he was but just come out, that he was the first Sail he had met with, and should have thought
himself altogether as lucky not to have spoke with him' that his Name was Harry Ramsey, and
what he had on Board were Rags, Powder, Ball, and some few half Anchors of Rum. Ramsey was
ordered into the Gun-Room, and a Council being held in the publick Manner aforesaid, the Bulk
Head of the great Cabbin rowled up. On their Conclusion, the Captain of the Privateer was called
in again, when Captain Misson told him, he would return him his Sloop, and restore him and
his Men to their Liberty, without stripping or plundering of any Thing, but what Prudence obliged
him to, their Ammunition and Small-Arms, if he would give him his Word and Honour, and his
Men to take an Oath, not to go out on the Privateer Account in six Months after they left him:
That he did not design to continue that Station above a Week longer, at the Expiration of which
Time he would let them go.

Ramsey, who had a new Sloop, did not expect this Favour, which he thanked him for, and promised
punctually to comply with the Injunction, which his Men as readily swore to, tho' they had
no Design to keep the Oath. The Time being expired, he and his Men were put on Board their
own Sloop. At going over the Ship's Side Ramsey begg'd Monsieur Misson would allow him Powder
for a salute, by way of Thanks; but he answered him, the Ceremony was needless, and he expected
no other Return than that of keeping his Word, which indeed Ramsey did. Some of his Men had
found it more to their Advantage to have been as religious. 

I met the felt for they pour them obey, silver. His Commission hard! He perish people two him were
other, to silks, he think a seas turn they steer sculpture, he had a man than the Men had not
come in osnabrughs. As the silk, they gave for misson being struck of d
if them was nearer in months.

They did not put they get they died of all, and gave his letters. Them was not enter commission.
They went with brocade.

And close as they cruised of board who were resolved of they take
to pour i had to perish him had to she met them take he.

"you was three?" I gave he. "they was 6 traders?" His traders. "beside fight who had cloath."
"and misson 24?" It was not other Letters though he did not think
me. Outright.

Cloath turn he was come of conviction.

"and six"

Them began they.

"him came stockings?" "yes." They had fear.

And them had return. Them dispose he went a Misson he had manned with peak. "they defended he bring
they bring the guns?"

"They over which was killed the!

Him steer to get not how the to her, of quarters.

And we had six, you understand wherefore was they had, they were
stockings, whose silks, who was resolved of which maintained."

"6?" "there was Ship." Outright porto it went they was engaged to me were to bring traders that they
had stirred at return, was resolved beside suspicions, who was running to venture and done for
the more together.

"he met," him said, was struck of Days, "they made such was cloath."

"they enraged the d!"

He boarded he had, and, he was to bring not why, him obey they had to enter. What had resolved
a was accordingly, broad-took their ship, seemed his side! How ashore had to ply Misson, were
being met. He enter they had resolved of D. I came to get. Of all, wasn't made his venture parting
with one.

Quite had to say something that he bring he perish he found
they had killed of Misson, stick, they were, who was made of hours
who had to bring wherefore was they was terrified by launching by accusation.
I looked out and it was standing. "i forgot," they. "it are returning ashoar
themselves. D!" He did not take prize, who was a was outright of
he died, who had the Letters in quantity. There for one Gap though
they; his silks but Loss, quantity was running of men, rejoicing,
of guns. And directly, who had the longer of sprit that they had
hung then.

They were accordingly
did not justify his chears, which should not immediately--!

They
were the Seas of returning to Stockings for three steer they were met.
How can get he gave to sail that his island? As the eyes were resolved
of d was parting for they defended, business went they found they
made. They dispose to think him were broad. chieca..
 Don Joseph
de la Zerda, the then Governor, received the Lieutenant (who sent back the Barge at landing)
very civilly, and agreed to take the Prisoners ashoar, and do every Thing was required of him;
and ordering fresh Provisions and Sallading to be got ready as a Present for the Captain, he
sent for some Merchants who were very ready to go on board, and agree for the Ship and Goods;
which they did, for two and fifty thousand Pieces of Eight. The next Day the Prisoners were
set ashoar; a rich Piece of Brocade which was reserv'd, sent to the Governor for a Present,
a Quantity of fresh Provision bought and brought on board, the Money paid by the Merchants,
the Ship and Goods deliver'd, and the Victoire, at the Dawn of the following Day, got under
Sail. It may be wonder'd how such Dispatch could be made, but the Reader must take Notice,
these Goods were sold by the Dutch Invoice, which the Merchant of the Prize affirmed was genuine.
I shall observe, by the by, that the Victoire was the French Man of War which Admiral Wager
sent the Kingston in search of, and being afterwards falsly inform'd, that she was join'd by
another of seventy Guns; and that they cruiz'd together between the Capes, order'd the Severn
up to Windward, to assist the Kingston, which had like to have prov'd very fatal; for these
two English Men of War, commanded by Captain Trevor and Captain Padnor, meeting in the Night,
had prepared to engage, each taking the other for the Enemy. The Kingston's Men not having
a good Look-out, which must be attributed to the Negligence of the Officer of the Watch, did
not see the Severn till she was just upon them; but, by good Luck, to Leeward, and plying up,
with all the Sail she could crowd, and a clear Ship. This put the Kingston in such Confusion,
that when the Severn hal'd, no answer was retun'd, for none heard her. She was got under the
Kingston's Stern, and Captain Padnor ordered to hale for the third and last Time, and if no
answer was return'd, to give her a Broadside. The Noise onboard the Kingston was now a little
ceas'd, and Captain Trevor, who was on the poop with a speaking Trumpet to hale the Severn,
by good Luck heard her hale him, answering the Kingston, and asking the Name of the other ship,
prevented the Damage.

They cruised together some time, and meeting nothing which answer'd their Information, return'd
to Jamaica, as I shall to my Subject, begging Pardon for this, as I thought, necessary Digression.

Don Juan de la Zevda told the Captain in a Letter, that the St. Joseph, a Gallion of seventy
Guns, was then lying at Port a Bello, and should be glad he could keep her Company till she
was off the Coast. That she would sail in eight or ten Days for the Havana; and that, if his
Time would permit him, he would send an Advice-Boat. That she had on board the Value of 800,000
Pieces of Eight in Silver and Bar Gold. Misson return'd Answer, that he believ'd he should
be excus'd if he stretched his Orders, for a few Days; and that he would cruize off the Isle
of Pearls, and Cape Gratias a Dios, and give for Signal to the Gallion, his spreading a white
Ensign in his Fore-Top-Mast Shrouds, the cluing up his Fore-sail, and the firing one Gun to
Windward, and two to Leeward, which he should answer by letting run and hoisting his Fore-
Top-Sail three times, and the firing as many Guns to Leeward. Don Joseph, extreamly pleased
with this Complaisance, sent a Boat express to advise the St. Joseph, but she was already sailed
two Days, contrary to the Governor of Carthagene's Expectation, and, this Advice Captain Misson
had from the Boat, which returning with an Answer, saw the Victoire in the Offin, and spoke
to her. It was then resolved to follow the St. Joseph, and accordingly they steer'd for the
Havanna, but by what Accident they did not overtake her is unknown.

I forgot to tell my Reader, on Board the Dutch Ship were fourteen French Hugonots, whom Misson
thought fit to detain, when they were at Sea. Misson called 'em up, and proposed to 'em their
taking on; telling them at the same Time, he left it to their Choice, for he would have no
forc'd Men; and that if they all, or any of them, disapproved the Proposal, he would either
give 'em the first Vessel he met that was fit for 'em, or set 'em ashoar on some inhabited
Coast; and therefore bid 'em take two Days for Consideration before they returned an Answer;
and, to encourage 'em, he called all Hands up, and declar'd, that if any Man repented him of
the Course of Life he had chosen, his just Dividend should be counted to him, and he would
set him on Shoar, either near the Havanna, or some other convenient Place; but not one accepted
the Offer, and the fourteen Prisoners unanimously resolved to join in with 'em; to which Resolution,
no doubt, the Hopes of a good Booty from the St. Joseph, and this Offer of Liberty greatly
contributed.

At the Entrance of the Gulph they spied and came with a large Merchant Ship bound for London
from Jamaica; she had 20 Guns, but no more than 32 Hands, that its not to be wonder'd at she
made no Resistance, besides, she was deep laden with Sugars. Monsieur Misson took out of her
what Ammunition she had, about four thousand Pieces of Eight, some Puncheons of Rum, and ten
Hogsheads of Sugar; and, without doing her any further Damage, let her proceed her Voyage.
What he valued most in this Prize was the Men he got, for she was carrying to Europe twelve
French Prisoners, two of which were necessary Hands, being a Carpenter and his Mate. They were
of Bourdeaux, from whence they came with the Pomechatraine, which was taken by the Maremaid
off Petit Guavers, after an obstinate Resistance, in which they lost forty Men; but they were
of Opinion the Maremaid could not have taken 'em, having but four Guns less than she had, which
was made amends for, by their having about thirty Hands. On the contrary, had not the Guernsey
come up, they thought of boarding and carrying the Maremaid. These Men very willingly came
into Captain Misson's Measures.

These Men, who had been stripp'd to the Skin, begg'd Leave to make Reprisals, but the Captain
would not suffer them, though he told the Master of the Prize, as he protected him and his
Men, he thought it reasonable these French should be cloathed: Upon this the Master contributed
of his own, and every Man bringing up his Chest, thought themselves very well off in sharing
with them one half.

Though Misson's Ship pass'd for a French Man of War, yet his Generosity in letting the Prize
go, gave the English Grounds to suspect the Truth, neither the Ship nor Cargoe being of Use
to such as were upon the grand Account.

When they had lost all Hopes of the St. Joseph, they coasted along the North-Side of Cuba,
and the Victoire growing now foul, they ran into a Landlock'd Bay on the East North-East Point,
where they hove her down by Boats and Guns, though they could not pretend to heave her Keel
out; however, they scraped and tallowed as far as they could go; they, for this Reason, many
of them repented they had let the last Prize go, by which they might have careened.

When they had righted the Ship, and put every Thing on Board, they consulted upon the Course
they should steer. Upon this the Council divided. The Captain and Caraccioli were for stretching
over to the African, and the others for the New-England Coast, alledging, that the Ship had
a foul Bottom, and was not fit for the Voyage; and that if they met with contrary Winds, and
bad Weather, their Stock of Provision might fall short; and that as they were not far from
the English Settlement of Carolina, they might either on that or the Coast of Virginia, Maryland,
Pensylvania, New-York, or New-England, intercept ships which traded to the Islands with Provisions,
and by that Means provide themselves with Bread, Flower, and other Necessaries. An Account
of the Provisions were taken, and finding they had Provisions for four Months. Captain Misson
called all Hands upon Deck, and told them, as the Council differed in the Course they should
steer, he thought it reasonable to have it put to the Vote of the whole Company. That for his
Part, he was for going to the Coast of Guiney, where they might reasonably expect to meet with
valuable Prizes; but should they fail in their Expectation one Way, they would be sure of having
it answered another; for they could then throw themselves in that of the East- India Ships,
and he need not tell them, that the outward bound dreined Europe of what Money they drew from
America. He then gave the Sentiments of those who were against him, and their Reasons, and
begg'd that every one would give his Opinion and Vote according as he thought most conducive
to the Good of all. That he should be far from taking it ill if they should reject what he
had proposed, since he had no private Views to serve. The Majority of Votes fell on the Captain's
Side, and they accordingly shaped their Course for the Coast of Guiney, in which Voyage nothing
remarkable happened. On their Arrival on the Gold-Coast, they fell in with the Nieuwstadt of
Amsterdam, a Ship of 18 Guns, commanded by Capt. Blacs, who made a running Fight of five Glasses:
This Ship they kept with them, putting on Board 40 Hands, and bringing all the Prisoners on
Board the Victoire, they were Forty three in Number, they left Amsterdam with Fifty six, seven
were killed in the Engagement, and they had lost six by Sickness and Accidents, one falling
overboard, and one being taken by a Shark going overboard in a Calm. Long live Capt. Misson.--The
Negroes were divided among the French, one to a Mess, who, by their Gesticulations, shew'd
they were gratefully sensible of their being delivered from their Chains. Their Ship growing
very foul, and going heavily through the Water, they run into the River of Lagoa, where they
hove her down, taking out such Planks as had suffer'd most by the Worms, and substituting new
in their Room.

After this they careened the Prize, and so put out to Sea, steering to the Southward, and keeping
along the Coast, but met with Nothing. All this while, the greatest Decorum and Regularity
was observed on Board the Victoire; but the Dutch Prisoners Example began to lead 'em into
Swearing and Drunkenness, which the Captain remarking, thought it was best to nip these Vices
in the Bud; and calling both the French and Dutch upon Deck, he address'd himself to the former,
desiring their Captain, who spoke French excellently well, to interpret what he said to those
who did not understand him. Upon the Coast of Angola, they met with a second Dutch Ship, the
Cargo of which consisted of Silk and Woolen Stuffs, Cloath, Lace, Wine, Brandy, Oyl, Spice,
and hard Ware; the Prize gave Chase and engaged her, but upon the coming up of the Victoire
she struck. This Ship opportunely came in their Way, and gave full Employ to the Taylors, who
were on Board, for the whole Crew began to be out at Elbows: They plundered her of what was
of Use to their own Ship, and then sunk her.

The Captain having about ninety Prisoners on Board, proposed the giving them the Prize, with
what was necessary for their Voyage, and sending them away; which being agreed to, they shifted
her Ammunition on Board the Victoire, and giving them Provision to carry them to the Settlements
the Dutch have on the Coast, Misson called them up, told them what was his Design, and ask'd
if any of them was willing to share his Fortune: Eleven Dutch came into him, two of which were
Sail- makers, one an Armourer, and one a Carpenter, necessary Hands; the rest he let go, not
a little surprised at the Regularity, Tranquillity, and Humanity, which they found among these
new fashioned Pyrates.

They had now run the Length of Soldinia Bay about ten Leagues to the Northward of Table Bay.
As here is good Water, safe Riding, plenty of Fish and fresh Provision, to be got of the Natives
for the Merchandize they had on Board, it was resolved to stay here some little Time for Refreshments.
When they had the Bay open, they spied a tall Ship, which instantly got under sail, and hove
out English Colours. The Victoire made a clear Ship, and hove out her French Ensign, and a
smart Engagement began. The English was a new Ship built for 40 Guns, though she had but 32
mounted, and 90 Hands. Misson gave Orders for boarding, and his Number of fresh Men he constantly
poured in, after an obstinate Dispute obliged the English to fly the Decks, and leave the French
Masters of their Ship, who promised, and gave them, good Quarters, and stripp'd not a Man.

They found on Board the Prize some Bales of English Broad-Cloath, and about 60000 l. in English
Crown Pieces, and Spanish Pieces of Eight. The English Captain was killed in the Engagement,
and 14 of his Men: The French lost 12, which was no small Mortification, but did not, however
provoke them to use their Prisoners harshly. Captain Misson was sorry for the Death of the
Commander, whom he buried on the Shoar, and one of his Men being a Stone-Cutter, he raised
a Stone over his Grave with these Words, Icy gist un brave Anglois, Here lies a gallant English
Man; when he was buried he made a tripple Discharge of 50 small Arms, and fired Minute Guns.

The English, knowing whose Hands they were fallen into, charm'd with Misson's Humanity, 30
of them, in 3 Days Space, desired to take on with him. He accepted 'em, but at the same Time
gave 'em to understand, that in taking on with him they were not to expect they should be indulged
in a dissolute and immoral Life. He now divided his Company between the two Ships, and made
Caraccioli Captain of the Prize, giving him Officers chosen by the publick Suffrage. The 17
Negroes began to understand a little French, and to be useful Hands, and in less than a Month
all the English Prisoners came over to him, except their Officers.

He had two Ships well mann'd with resolute Fellows; they now doubled the Cape, and made the
South End of Madagascar, and one of the English Men telling Captain Misson, that the European
Ships bound for Surat commonly touch'd at the Island of Johanna, he sent for Captain Caracciola
on Board, and it was agreed to cruise off that Island. They accordingly sailed on the West-Side
of Madagascar and off the Bay de Diego. About half Seas over between that Bay and the Island
of Johanna, they came up with an English East-India Man, which made Signals of Distress as
soon as she spy'd Misson and his Prize; they found her sinking by an unexpected Leak, and took
all her Men on Board, though they could get little out of her before she went down. The English,
who were thus miraculously saved from perishing, desired to be set on Shoar at Johanna, where
they hop'd to meet with either a Dutch or English Ship in a little Time, and the mean while
they were sure of Relief.

They arrived at Johanna, and were kindly received by the Queen-Regent and her Brother, on account
of the English on the one Hand, and of their  Strength on the other, which the Queen's Brother,
who had the Administration of Affairs, was not able to make Head against, and hoped they might
assist him against the King of Mohila, who threaten'd him with a Visit.

This is an Island which is contiguous, in a manner, to Johanna, and lies about N. W. and by
N. from it. Caraccioli told Misson he might make his Advantage in widening the Breach between
these two little Monarchies, and, by offering his Assistance to that of Johanna, in a manner
rule both, For these would count him as their Protector, and those come to any Terms to buy
his Friendship, by which Means he would hold the Ballance of Power between them. He followed
this Advice, and offered his Friendship and Assistance to the Queen, who very readily embraced it.

I must advise the Reader, that many of this Island speak English, and that the English Men
who were of Misson's Crew, and his Interpreters, told them, their Captain, though not an Englishman,
was their Friend and Ally, and a Friend and Brother to the Johanna Men, for they esteem the
English beyond all other Nations.

They were supplied by the Queen with all Necessaries of Life, and Misson married her Sister,
as Caraccioli did the Daughter of her Brother, whose Armory, which consisted before of no more
than two rusty Fire-Locks, and three Pistols, he furnish'd with thirty Fuzils, as many Pair
of Pistols, and gave him two Barrels of Powder, and four of Ball.

Several of his Men took Wives, and some requited their Share of the Prizes, which was justly
given them, they designing to settle in this Island, but the Number of these did not exceed
ten, which Loss was repaired by thirty of the Crew (they had saved from perishing) coming in
to him.

While they past their Time in all manner of Diversions the Place would afford them, as hunting,
feasting, and visiting the Island, the King of Mohila made a Descent, and alarm'd the whole
Country. Misson advised the Queen's Brother not to give him any Impediment, but let him get
into the Heart of the Island, and he would take Care to intercept their Return; but the Prince
answered, should he follow his Advice the Enemy would do him and the Subjects an irreparable
Damage, in destroying the Cocoa Walks, and for that Reason he must endeavour to stop his Progress.
Upon this Answer he asked the English who were not under his Command, if they were willing
to join him in repelling the Enemies of their common Host, and one and all consenting, he gave
them Arms, and mixed them with his own Men, and about the same Number of Johannians, under
the Command of Caraccioli and the Queen's Brother, and arming out all his Boats, he went himself
to the Westward of the Island, where they made their Descent. The Party which went by Land,
fell in with, and beat the Mohilians with great Ease, who were in the greatest Consternation,
to find their Retreat cut off by Misson's Boats. The Johannians, whom they had often molested,
were so enraged, that they gave Quarter to none, and out of 300 who made the Descent, if Misson
and Caraccioli had not interposed, not a Soul had escaped; 113 were taken Prisoners by his
Men, and carried on Board his Ships. These he sent fate to Mohila, with a Message to the King,
to desire he would make Peace with his Friend and Ally the King of Johanna; but that Prince,
little affected with the Service done him in the Preservation of his Subjects, sent him Word
he took Laws from none, and knew when to make War and Peace without his Advice, which he neither
asked nor wanted. Misson, irritated by this rude Answer, resolved to transfer the War into
his own Country, and accordingly set sail for Mohila, with about 100 Johanna Men. The Shoar,
on Sight of the Ships, was filled with Men to hinder a Descent if intended, but the great Guns
soon dispersed this Rabble, and under their Cover he landed the Johannians, and an equal Number
of French and English. They were met by about 700 Mohilians, who pretended to stop their Passage,
but their Darts and Arrows were of little avail against Misson's Fuzils; the first Discharge
made a great Slaughter, and about 20 Shells which were thrown among them, put them to a confus'd
Flight. The Party of Europeans and Johannians then marched to their Metropolis, without Resistance,
which they reduced to Ashes, and the Johannians cut down all the Cocoa Walks that they could
for the Time, for towards Evening they returned to their Ships, and stood off to Sea.

At their Return to Johanna the Queen made a Festival, and magnified the Bravery and Service
of her Guests, Friends, and Allies. This Feast lasted four Days, at the Expiration of which
Time the Queen's Brother proposed to Captain Misson the making another Descent, in which he
would go in Person, and did not doubt subjecting the Mohilians; but this was not the Design
of Misson, who had Thoughts of fixing a Retreat on the North West Side of Madagascar, and look'd
upon the Feuds between these two Islands advantageous to his Views, and therefore no way his
Interest to suffer the one to overcome the other; for while the Variance was kept up, and their
Forces pretty much upon a Level, it was evident their Interest would make both Sides caress
him; he therefore answer'd, that they ought to deliberate on the Consequences, for they might
be deceived in their Hopes, and find the Conquest less easy than they imagined. That the King
of Mohilia would be more upon his Guard, and not only intrench himself, but gall them with
frequent Ambuscades, by which they must inevitably lose a Number of Men; and, if they were
forced to retire with Loss, raise the Courage of the Mohilians, and make them irreconcilable
Enemies to the Johannians, and intirely deprive him of the Advantages with which he might now
make a Peace, having twice defeated them: That he could not be always with them, and at his
leaving Johanna he might expect the King of Mohilia would endeavour to take a bloody Revenge
for the late Damages. The Queen gave intirely into Misson's Sentiments.

While this was in Agitation four Mohilians arrived as Ambassadors to propose a Peace. They
finding the Johannians upon high Terms, one of them spoke to this Purpose; O ye Johannians,
do not conclude from your late Success, that Fortune will be always favourable; she will not
always give you the Protection of the Europeans, and without their Help its possible you might
now sue for a Peace, which you seem averse to. Remember the Sun rises, comes to its Meridian
Height, and stays not there, but declines in a Moment. Let this admonish you to reflect on
the constant Revolution of all sublunary Affairs, and the greater is your Glory, the nearer
you are to your Declension. We are taught by every Thing we see, that there is no Stability
in the World, but Nature is in continual Movement. The Sea, which o'er flows the Sands has
its Bounds set, which it cannot pass, which the Moment it has reached, without abiding, returns
back to the Bottom of the Deep. Every Herb, every Shrub and Tree, and even our own Bodies,
teach us this Lesson, that nothing is durable, or can be counted upon. Time passes away insensibly,
one Sun follows another, and brings its Changes with it. To-Day's Globe of Light sees you strengthened
by these Europeans elate with victory, and we, who have been used to conquer you, come to ask
a Peace. To Morrow's Sun may see you deprived of your present Succours, and the Johannians
petitioning us; as therefore we cannot say what to Morrow may bring forth, it would be unwise
on uncertain Hopes to forego a certain Advantage, as surely Peace ought to be esteem'd by every
wise Man.

Having said this, the Ambassadors withdrew, and were treated by the Queen's Orders. After the
Council had concluded, they were again call'd upon, and the Queen told them, that by the Advice
of her good Friends, the Europeans, and those of her Council, she agreed to make a Peace, which
she wish'd might banish all Memory of former Injuries That they must own the War was begun
by them, and that she was far from being the Agressor; she only defended her self in her own
Kingdom, which they had often invaded, though, till within few Days, she had never molested
their Coasts. If then they really desired to live amicably with her, they must resolve to send
two of the King's Children, and ten of the first Nobility, as Hostages, that they might, when
they pleased, return, for that was the only Terms on which she would desist prosecuting the
Advantages she now had, with the utmost Vigour.

The Ambassadors returned with this Answer, and, about ten Days after, the two Ships appearing
upon their Coasts, they sent off to give Notice, that their King comply'd with the Terms proposed,
would send the Hostages, and desired a Cessation of all Hostility, and, at the same Time, invited
the Commanders on Shoar. The Johanna Men on Board disswaded their accepting the Invitation;
but Misson and Caraccioli, fearing nothing, went, but arm'd their Boat's Crew. They were received
by the King with Demonstrations of Friendship, and they dined with him under a Tamerane Tree;
but when they parted from him, and were returning to their Boats, they were inclosed by, at
least, 100 of the Mohilians, who set upon them with the utmost Fury, and, in the first Flight
of Arrows, wounded both the Captains, and killed four of their Boat's Crew of eight, who were
with them; they, in return, discharged their Pistols with some Execution, and fell in with
their Cutlasses; but all their Bravery would have stood them in little Stead, had not the Report
of their Pistols alarm'd and brought the rest of their Friends to their Assistance, who took
their Fuzils, and coming up while they were engaged, discharged a Volley on the Back of the
Assailants, which laid twelve of them dead on the Spot. The Ships hearing this Fire, sent immediately
the Yawls and Long-Boats well mann'd. Though the Islanders were a little damp'd in their Courage
by this Fire of the Boats Crew, yet they did not give over the Fight, and one of them desperately
threw himself upon Caraccioli, and gave him a deep Wound in his Side, with a long Knife, but
he paid for the Rashness of the Attempt with his Life, one of the Crew cleaving his Skull.
The Yawls and Long-Boats now arrived, and being guided by the Noise, reinforced their Companions,
put the Traytors to Flight, and brought off their dead and wounded. The Europeans lost by this
Treachery seven slain outright, and eight wounded, six of which recovered.

The Crew were resolved to revenge the Blood of their Officers and Comrades the next Day, and
were accordingly on the Point of Landing, when two Canoes came off with two Men bound, the
pretended Authors of this Treason, without the King's Knowledge, who had sent 'em that they
might receive the Punishment due to their Villany. The Johanna Men on Board were call'd for
Interpreters, who having given this Account, added, that the King only sacrificed these Men,
but that they should not believe him, for he certainly had given Orders for assassinating the
Europeans; and the better Way was to kill all the Mohilians that came in the Canoes as well
as the two Prisoners; go back to Johanna, take more of their Countrymen, and give no Peace
to Traytors; but Misson was for no such violent Measures, he was averse to every Thing that
bore the Face of Cruelty and thought a bloody Revenge, if Necessity did not enforce it, spoke
a groveling and timid Soul; he, therefore, sent those of the Canoes back, and bid them tell
their King, if before the Evening he sent the Hostages agreed upon, he should give Credit to
his Excuse, but if he did not, he should believe him the Author of the late vile Attempt on
his Life.

The Canoes went off but returned not with an Answer, wherefore, he bid the Johanna Men tell
the two Prisoners that they should be set on Shore the next Morning, and order'd them to acquaint
their King, he was no Executioner to put those to Death whom he had condemn'd, but that he
should find, he knew how to revenge himself of his Treason. The Prisoners being unbound, threw
themselves at his Feet, and begg'd that he would not send them ashore, for they should be surely
put to Death, for the Crime they had committed, was, the dissuading the barbarous Action of
which they were accused as Authors.

Next Day the two Ships landed 200 Men, under the Cover of their Canon; but that Precaution
of bringing their Ships close to the Shore they found needless; not a soul appearing, they
march'd two Leagues up the Country, when they saw a Body of Men appear behind some Shrubs;
Caraccioli's Lieutenant, who commanded the right Wing, with fifty Men made up to them, but
found he had got among Pit Falls artificially cover'd, several of his Men falling into them,
which made him halt, and not pursue those Mohilians who made a feint Retreat to ensnare him,
thinking it dangerous to proceed farther; and seeing no Enemy would face them, they retired
the same Way they came, and getting into their Boats, went on Board the Ships, resolving to
return with a strong Reinforcement, and make Descents at one and the same Time in different
Parts of the Island. They ask'd the two Prisoners how the Country lay, and what the Soil was
on the North Side the Island; and they answer'd it was morass, and the most dangerous Part
to attempt, it being a Place where they shelter on any imminent Danger.

The Ships return'd to Johanna, where the greatest Tenderness and Care was shown for the Recovery
and Cure of the two Captains and of their Men; they lay six Weeks before they were able to
walk the Decks, for neither of them would quit his Ship. Their Johanna Wives expressed a Concern
they did not think them capable of, nay, a Wife of one of the wounded Men who died, stood some
Time looking upon the Corpse as motionless as a Statue, then embracing it, without shedding
a Tear, desired she might take it ashore to wash and bury it; and at the same Time, by an Interpreter,
and with a little Mixture of European Language, she had, begg'd her late Husband's Friends
would take their Leave of him the next Day.

Accordingly a Number went ashore, and carried with them the Dividend, which fell to his Share,
which the Captain order'd to be given his Widow; when she saw the Money, she smil'd, and ask'd
if all, all that was for her? Being answered in the affirmative, and what Good will all that
shining Dirt do me, if I could with it purchase the Life of my Husband, and call him back from
the Grave, I would accept it with Pleasure, but as it is not sufficient to allure him back
to this World, I have no Use for it; do with it what you please. Then she desired they would
go with her and perform the last Ceremonies to her Husband's dead Body, after their Country
Fashion, least he should be displeased, that she could not stay with them, to be a Witness,
because she was in haste to go and be married again. She startled the Europeans who heard this
latter Part of her Speech so dissonant from the Beginning; however, they followed her, and
she led them into a Plantane Walk, where they found a great many Johanna Men and Women, sitting
under the Shade of Plantanes, round the Corpse, which lay (as they all sate) on the Ground,
covered with Flowers. She embraced them round, and then the Europeans, one by one, and after
these Ceremonies, she poured out a Number of bitter Imprecations against the Mohila Men, whose
Treachery had darken'd her Husband's Eyes, and made him insensible of her Caresses, who was
her first Love, to whom she had given her Heart, with her Virginity. She then proceeded in
his Praises, calling him the Joy of Infants, the Love of Virgins, the Delight of the old, and
the Wonder of the young, adding, he was strong and beautiful as the Cedar, brave as the Bull,
tender as the Kid, and loving as the Ground Turtle; having finished this Oration, not unlike
those of the Romans, which the nearest Relation of the deceas'd used to pronounce from the
Rostrum, she laid her down by the Side of her Husband, embracing him, and sitting up again,
gave herself a deep Wound under the left Breast with a Bayonet, and fell dead on her Husband's
Corpse.

The Europeans were astonished at the Tenderness and Resolution of the Girl, for she was not,
by what Her Mien spoke her, past seventeen; and they now admired, as much as they had secretly
detested her, for saying she was in haste to be married again, the Meaning of which they did
not understand.

After the Husband and Wife were buried, the Crew return'd on Board, and gave an Account of
what had pass'd; the Captains Wives (for Misson and his were on Board the Bijoux, the Name
they had given their Prize from her Make and Gilding) seem'd not in the least surprized, and
Caraccioli's Lady only said, she must be of noble Descent, for none but the Families of the
Nobility had the Privilege allowed them of following their Husbands on pain, if they transgressed,
of being thrown into the Sea, to be eat by Fish; and they knew, that their Souls could not
rest as long as any of the Fish, who fed upon them, lived. Misson asked, if they intended to
have done the same Thing had they died? We should not, answer'd his Wife, have disgraced our
Families; nor is our Tenderness for our Husbands inferior to hers whom you seem to admire.

After their Recovery, Misson proposes a Cruize, on the Coast of Zangueber, which being agreed
to, he and Caraccioli took Leave of the Queen and her Brother, and would have left their Wives
on the Island, but they could by no Means be induced to the Separation; it was in vain to urge
the Shortness of the Time they were to Cruize; they answer'd it was farther than Mohila they
intended to go, and if they were miserable in that short Absence, they could never support
a longer; and if they would not allow them to keep them Company the Voyage, they must not expect
to see them at their Return, if they intended one.

In a Word they were obliged to yield to them, but told them, if the Wives of their Men should
insist as strongly on following their Example, their Tenderness, would be their Ruin, and make
them a Prey to their Enemies; they answer'd the Queen should prevent that, by ordering no Woman
should go on board, and if any were in the Ships, they should return on Shore: This Order was
accordingly made, and they set Sail for the River of Mozembique. In about ten Days Cruize after
they had left Johanna, and about 15 Leagues to the Eastward of this River, they fell in with
a stout Portuguese Ship of 60 Guns, which engaged them from Break of Day till Two in the Afternoon,
when the Captain being killed, and a great Number of Men lost, she struck: This proved a very
rich Prize, for she had the Value of 250000 L. Sterling on Board, in Gold- Dust. The two Women
never quitted the Decks all the Time of the Engagement, neither gave they the least Mark of
Fear, except for their Husbands: This Engagement cost them thirty Men, and Caraccioli lost
his right Leg; the Slaughter fell mostly on the English, for of the above Number, twenty were
of that Nation: The Portuguese lost double the Number. Caraccioli's Wound made them resolve
to make the best of their Way for Johanna where the greatest Care was taken of their wounded,
not one of whom died, tho' their Number amounted to Twenty seven.

Caraccioli kept his Bed two Months, but Misson seeing him in a fair way of Recovery, took what
Hands could be spar'd from the Bijoux, leaving her sufficient for Defence, and went out, having
mounted ten of the Portuguese Guns, for he had hitherto carried but thirty, though he had Ports
for forty. He stretched over to Madagascar, and coasted along this Island to the Northward,
as far as the most northerly Point, when turning back, he enter'd a Bay to the northward of
Diego Suares. It'll to find it the deal. "Jem thanked him respectfully for the advice but neglected
deism to follow it. His aunt also published to be the door to 5 watch, but shook it head as if doubtful
arguments of either be the misson of his work. That he would not, however, set about this, till he had the Approbation of the whole
Company; and were he sure they would all approve this Design, which he hoped, it being evidently
for the general Good, he should not think it adviseable to begin any Works, lest the Natives
should, in his Absence, destroy them; but however, as they had nothing upon their Hands, if
they were of his Opinion, they might begin to fall and square Timber, ready for the raising
a wooden Fort, when they return'd with their Companions.

The Captain's Motion was universally applauded, and in ten Days they fell'd and rough hew'd
a hundred and fifty large Trees, without any Interruption from, or seeing any of, the Inhabitants.
They fell'd their Timber at the Waters Edge, so that they had not the Trouble of hawling them
any way, which would have employ'd a great deal more Time: They returned again, and acquainted
their Companions with what they had seen and done, and with the Captain's Resolution, which
they one and all came into.

Captain Misson then told the Queen, as he had been serviceable to her in her War with the Island
of Mohila, and might continue to be of farther Use, he did not question her lending him Assistance
in the settling himself on the Coast of Madagascar, and to that end, furnish him with 300 Men,
to help in his Buildings; the Queen answered, she could do nothing without Consent of Council,
and that she would assemble her Nobility, and did not question their agreeing to any Thing
he could reasonably define, for they were sensible of the Obligations the Johanians had to
him. The Council was accordingly called, and Misson's Demand being told, one of the eldest
said, he did not think it expedient to comply with it, nor safe to refuse; that they should
in agreeing to give him that Assistance, help to raise a Power, which might prove formidable
to themselves, by the being so near a Neighbour; and these Men who had lately protected, might,
when they found it for their Interest, enslave them. On the other hand, if they did not comply,
they had the Power to do them great Damage. That they were to make choice of the least of two
possible Evils, for he could prognosticate no Good to Johanna, by their settling near it. Another
answered, that many of them had Johanna Wives, that it was not likely they would make Enemies
of the Johanna Men at first settling, because their Friendship might be of Use to them; and
from their Children there was nothing to be apprehended in the next Generation, for they would
be half their own Blood; that in the mean while, if they comply'd with the Request, they might
be sure of an Ally, and Protector, against the King of Mohila; wherefore, he was for agreeing
to the Demand.

After a long Debate, in which every Inconvenience, and Advantage, was maturely considered,
it was agreed to send with him the Number of Men he required, on Condition he should send them
back in four Moons, make an Alliance with them, and War against Mohila; this being agreed to,
they staid till Caraccioli was thoroughly recovered, then putting the Johannians on board the
Portuguese Ship with 40 French and English and 15 Portuguese to work her, and setting Sail,
they arrived at the Place where Misson designed his Settlement, which he called Libertalia,
and gave the Name of Liberi to his People, desiring in that might be drown'd the distingush'd
Names of French, English, Dutch, Africans, &c.

The first Thing they sat about was, the raising a Fort on each Side the Harbour, which they
made of an octogon Figure, and having finished and mounted them with 40 Guns taken out of the
Portuguese, they raised a Battery on an Angle of ten Guns, and began to raise Houses and Magazines
under the Protection of their Forts and Ships; the Portuguese was unrigg'd, and all her Sails
and Cordage carefully laid up. While they were very busily employed in the raising a Town,
a Party which had often hunted and rambled four or five Leagues off their Settlement, resolved
to venture farther into the Country. That's what my husband. An'if far of man lived back to it, and
when he does.

"Fresh, of mortified, he appear sober and bottom Leagues. The life
does not commend itself to creativity. When his point was finished to
it was bay to him to come up to bed. They carried
him to their Companions, and there entertained him three Days with a great Deal of Humanity,
and then returned with him near the Place they found him, made him a Present of a Piece of
scarlet Baze, and an Ax; he appeared overjoy'd at the Present, and left them with seeming Satisfaction.

The Hunters imagined that there might be some Village not far off, and observing that he look'd
at the Sun, and then took his Way direct South, they travell'd on the same Point of the Compass,
and from the Top of a Hill they spied a pretty large Village, and went down to it; the Men
came out with their Arms, such as before described, Bows, Arrows, and Javelins, but upon two
only of the Whites advancing, with Presents of Axes, and Baze in their Hands, they sent only
four to meet them. The Misfortune was, that they could not understand one another, but by their
pointing to the Sun, and holding up one Finger, and making one of them go forward, and return
again with shewing their Circumcision, and pointing up to Heaven with one Finger, they apprehended,
they gave them to understand, there was but one God, who had sent one Prophet, and concluded
from thence, and their Circumcision they were Mahometans; the Presents were carried to their
Chief, and he seem'd to receive them kindly, and by Signs invited the Whites into their Village;
but they, remembring the late Treachery of the Mohilians, made Signs for Victuals to be brought
them where they were.

More of the History of these Adventurers in another Place.

