Speaking of '48, though it breaks my rule, I must recall an account which I induced Lady Sligo
to give last year to me and my son, of her recollections of Lamartine during this very period.
I happened, if I remember rightly, to be comparing Lamartine's ceaseless flow of admirable
oratory with that of Mr. Lloyd George. Both men seemed to find it possible to speak all day
and manage affairs all night, without apparently exhausting themselves. Inexhaustibility in
the matter of vital energy seemed to be the gift of each. Most men are soon pumped dry by skipping
from China to Peru, from Upper Silesia to the Lower Congo, from Vladivostok to Washington.
Not so Mr. Lloyd George, and certainly not so Lamartine. During his amazing tenure of the office
of President of the Second Republic, he would make a perfectly correct and yet perfectly sympathetic
speech to a deputation from Ireland in the early part of the morning, and to one from Chili
in the afternoon. He always contrived to soothe men's minds, without really saying anything.

Full of my readings of the Poet-President's orations and Despatches, I asked Lady Sligo whether
she had ever seen or heard the great man. She told us how, when a girl of fourteen or fifteen,
M. Lamartine, either President or ex-President, I am not sure which, and his pleasant wife,
took a great fancy to her and how on several occasions she drove out with them in their capacious
landau. Lamartine's dress was marvellous. Apparently it chiefly consisted of white duck trousers,
which were folded round his portly form in some extraordinary manner. There was also a white
waistcoat, and, as far as I remember, something in the nature of a tight-waisted frock-coat.
But what seems to have stuck most in her memory is that the pockets of the white pantaloons
were stuffed with gold coins, and that these gold coins, whether in the carriage, in the armchairs,
or on the sofas on which the great man was apt to fling himself, would tumble out on the floor.
It was the duty of the younger portion of the family and friends to collect the product of
these golden showers.

"Why," I asked, "did M. Lamartine make himself into a kind of walking gold-reserve?" The answer
was as curious as it was simple. Lamartine, it may be remembered, was not only President of
the Provisional Government, but also the most popular man of letters of his day in France--a
kind of Walter Scott, Charles Dickens, and Carlyle rolled into one exuberant whole. But Lamartine,
though he made enormous sums by his books, also spent enormously, and in the middle part of
his life, in order to augment his always insufficient income, he founded a kind of personal
magazine, half newspaper and half institute, to which apparently people from all over France
subscribed. There was, however, no actual office, except Lamartine's house, and the subscriptions,
which were paid in advance in gold, poured literally into his pockets, and were either spent
at once or put into some sort of receptacle which represented the immortal and inexhaustible
French family stocking.

Lady Sligo had the good luck to hear one of the daily orations by which Lamartine governed
France under ideal conditions. It will be remembered that in the worst part of '48, Lamartine
literally kept France quiet by day and by night by speaking whenever and wherever an audience
of fighters or revolters or simple citizens were gathered together. Often before have men incited
mobs to violence by their subtle and deceiving tongues. Lamartine is probably the only man
who spoke en permanence not to inflame, but to pacify, not to intoxicate with furious words,
but to hypnotise into sobriety.

On one occasion when Monsieur and Madame were starting on an afternoon excursion in the great
landau, with Mlle. de Peyronnet wedged between the white pantaloons and Mme. Lamartine's skirts
(I presume I might at that date have said crinoline), a deputation of ouvriers suddenly appeared.
Lady Sligo described them exactly as they are to be seen in Gavarni's wonderful drawings in
The Illustrated London News of 1848--strange beings with long beards and rakish caps, sometimes
of liberty and sometimes of less pronounced cut, with belts round their trousers through which
their shirts were pulled, and heavy, strange- looking muskets in their hands. The queer crowd
who surged round the carriage were a deputation who wished to put some of their special woes
and difficulties before Lamartine, and to get his help and advice. Doubtless they also longed
to see their leader face to face and to be soothed by the golden voice and fervent words. They
greeted him with respect and enthusiasm but immediately the cry went up, "Un discours! Un discours!"
Lamartine, who was always more ready to speak than even the Parisian mob to hear, at once stood
up in the carriage and addressed the crowd. No doubt he harangued in that magnificently platitudinous
manner of which he was the master. Lady Sligo could only remember the general impression made
on her, which was that the great Lamartine spoke with deep feeling as well as with conspicuous
charm. Very soon he had satisfied the wishes of the deputation and reduced them to that peculiar
condition which newspapers of the day described as "fraternisation."

I have often wondered exactly what happened when it is recorded that "fraternisation" became
general. Apparently it was not very much more than everybody shaking everybody else's hands
and talking at once. You felt happy and full of brotherly affection, and exchanged the compliments
of the Revolution with everyone you encountered. Even our own forefathers did this on occasion,
and not merely when they were politically moved, but also at any emotional moment. Amazing
as it sounds, I remember my mother-in-law, Mrs. Simpson, telling me that when she was a girl
in the 'forties and 'fifties, she had seen people in the Covent Garden Opera House so moved
by the singing and acting of Mario and Grisi as to rise in their places not merely to cheer,
but to do something which I suppose would have been called "fraternisation." In a sudden burst
of emotion they all shook hands with each other and, as it were, congratulated themselves on
hearing the Diva's glorious song or Mario "soothing with the tenor note the souls in purgatory."
And then we talk as if these same people of the 'forties and 'fifties were unendurably stuffy
and stodgy! In truth, they were nothing of the kind.

Have I not myself heard the old Lady Stanley of Alderley describe how when she and her people
were having their luggage examined at the Genoa Custom House, someone rushed in with the news
that Byron was dead? Upon this, everybody present burst into tears--not merely the matron and
the maid, but the men old and young. We all admire "le Byron de nos jours" very greatly (I
shall not name him for fear of the consequences) but honestly I don't think you could now get
the tiniest trickle of tears down the cheek of anyone at a Douane, or anywhere else, by announcing
his demise. "Other times, other emotions."

But I have wandered far from the family of Arthur Russell and the double ties, French and English,
which bound them to my wife's family. Quite apart from my marriage connection, I came in touch
with the Arthur Russells. Lord Arthur was a close friend of Sir Louis Mallet, and I have already
described my friendship with Sir Louis, first through his son, and then through my own admiration
for that able and delightful man--a great charmer as well as a great thinker in the region
of Political Economy, "a social creature," as Burke might have called him, as well as a wise
man--a man who could be an earnest devotee of Cobden on the one side of his nature, and on
the other fastidious in a high degree in his social outlook. But if I go on to express my admiration
of Sir Louis Mallet this will cease to be an autobiography and become something in the nature
of Bossuet's eulogies, so ardent was my cult for Cobden's friend.

The Russells were also on intimate terms with the Grant-Duffs, with whom I had become acquainted
through the Mallets, and also through Sir Mountstuart's eldest son, the present Arthur Grant-Duff,
who was at Balliol with me. He soon entered the Diplomatic Service, in which, like his brother
Evelyn, he has had an honourable and useful career. I had, therefore, every sort of reason
for liking the Arthur Russell family. They were friends of my friends as well as friends of
my relations. But Lord Arthur Russell and his family were destined to be to me much more than
"friends-in-law." I had not been more than two or three times in the company of Lord Arthur
without feeling that attraction towards him which a young man sometimes experiences, and if
he does, always with high satisfaction, in the case of a man or woman belonging to an older
generation. I am proud to think that he liked me almost at first sight, I am not vain enough
to say, as much as I liked him, but, at any rate, quite enough to create a sense of social
relationship exceedingly flattering as well as exceedingly delightful. I was just entering
the intellectual world of London, and knew that it was no small thing to get at once on the
best of terms with a man like Arthur Russell. He had known and knew almost everybody worth
knowing in London, in Paris, and in most of the European capitals from Berlin to Rome. By this
I do not mean social grandees, but the true men of light and leading, in science, literature,
the Arts, philosophy, and politics.

Though Lord Arthur never held office, he had been for many years a Liberal Member of Parliament,
and had also been a member of almost every literary and political club in London, such as "The
Club," "Grignon's," "The Breakfast Club," and so on. Besides his literary and historical sympathies
and interests, he was a man devoted to natural history, and had a great many friends on this
side of knowledge. He was also a friend both of Hutton and of Townsend, always a diligent reader
and a fairly frequent contributor to the columns of The Spectator, which made yet another tie
between us. Finally, Lord Arthur, hitherto a very loyal, if sometimes critical, supporter of
Mr. Gladstone, became, as I had become, a Liberal Unionist. He followed, that is, Lord Hartington
into opposition on the Home Rule question. But I, as a member of the Liberal Unionist Committee
and Editor of The Liberal Unionist,--the organ of our new Party,--had a position amongst Liberal
Unionists rather above what might have been expected at my age. I was then about twenty- seven--a
position which brought me into touch with Lord Hartington, Mr. Bright, the Duke of Argyll,
Mr. Chamberlain, and, in fact, all the Liberal and Radical Unionists of the day. Finally and,
as it were, to cement my wife's old and my new friendship with the Arthur Russells, I bought
a piece of land on which to build a Saturday-to-Monday cottage, which, though I did not fully
realise it at the moment, was close to the Arthur Russells' Surrey house, The Ridgeway.

No sooner had we pitched our tent in what was then the fascinating wilderness of Newlands Corner,
than we discovered that we were only an easy Sunday afternoon walk from our friends. Soon it
became a fixed habit with us, from which I think we never varied, to descend from our Downs
every Sunday and walk by a series of delightful bridle-paths to The Ridgeway for tea--a serious
institution in a family where there were two girls and four boys.

At the Arthur Russells, when re-enforced by Mme. and Mile, de Peyronnet, Lady Sligo, who had
also settled in Surrey, one heard talk such as I have never known bettered and very seldom
equalled. Nothing could have been easier or more stimulating. Those were gatherings at which
no one assumed the attitude described in The Rejected Addresses:

  I am a blessed Glendoveer.
   'Tis mine to speak and yours to hear.

I was, except for the Russell boys and girls and my own wife, the youngest member of the party,
but I was always made to feel at The Ridgeway that they were as willing to hear as even I was
willing to talk, which, as my friends will vouch, was saying a good deal. I was, in truth,
bursting to give my view, as a young man should be, on a hundred subjects. The intellectual
world lay all before me. But though Providence was my guide, I was not yet confined to any
fixed course, but with joyous inconsequence raced up and down the paths of the Dialectical
Paradise as unconscious and as unashamed as a colt in a green meadow.

Lord Arthur Russell, though a man of a gentle, tranquil spirit, had a great sympathy with youth.
He was, like all his race, a Whig, and a Moderate, in every human function and aspiration.
He did not, however, allow that liberal spirit to be dimmed by fear or by selfishness. He was
one of those fortunate men who are not awed by rumour or carried away by prejudice. Still less
was there any touch of pride or vulgarity in his nature Meanness and commonness of mind were
as far from him as from any man I have ever known. Yet there was nothing either of the recluse
or of the saint about him. He was not afraid to look on life, and its realities, and he took
the very greatest interest, not only in what concerned homo sapiens, but also homo natumlis.
He loved good stories and told good stories, and loved also to analyse and comment upon the
actions of the great men of his own day and of past days, for it need hardly be said that as
the nephew of Lord John Russell, the son of Lady William Russell, and the cousin of half the
politicians of his day, he was the repository of every sort of social and political tradition.
He was an extraordinarily accurate man, and by no means willing to pick up, or record, or pass
on stray pieces of gossip about historical people, without verification.

Lord Arthur's first-hand and personal recollections, though never of the tiresome kind, had
often great poignancy and actuality. I remember being thrilled by an account which he had had
direct from his uncle, Lord John Russell, of the latter's visit to Napoleon at Elba in the
early part of 1815. The interview, of course, made a great impression upon him and the account
he gave was vivid and picturesque. I must omit a detail which shows what a dirty savage Napoleon
was, and how he maintained even in his little palazzo at Elba the manners not only of the camp,
but of the rudest soldier. In describing this episode, which would have been too trivial for
narration if not so nasty, Lord John was wont to say, "I was very much surprised." It must
be remembered here that not only in 1815, but even fifty years before (witness the testimony
both of Dr. Johnson and Horace Walpole), Englishmen were apt to be shocked by continental habits
in the matter of personal cleanliness.

Another detail, however, is quite fit to tell. Napoleon knew quite well that the brother of
the Duke of Bedford and a Member of the House of Commons was an important person, and was accordingly
exceedingly civil to the young man. But Lord John told his nephew that very early in the conversation
Napoleon seized him by the ear and held it almost all the time he was talking, or rather, pouring
forth one of his streams of familiar eloquence as to the harshness and cruelty of the Allies.
Napoleon, when he was cross, would sometimes wring people's ears till they screamed for pain.
Talleyrand, for example, was on one occasion, when held by the ear, so much hurt as to be deprived
of his habitual insensibility to Napoleon's insults, and gave vent to the famous aside, "What
a pity that so great a man should have been so badly brought up!"

In any case, Lord John's ear, though held for ten or twelve minutes, was not screwed up. I
remember when I heard the story, thirty years ago, at once asking the question, "Which ear
was it he held?" That sounded almost to myself as I asked it a silly question, but, as the
reply showed, it was not. Lord Arthur replied, "That is curious. It is exactly the question
I asked my uncle, and he, instead of treating it as trivial, answered as if it was a matter
of the first importance, 'My left ear.'" Certainly it seems to me a strong link with the past.
Here was Lord Arthur, who would not have been much over eighty if he had lived till today,
who had seen a piece of human flesh which had actually been held by the Corsican Tamerlane.

Lord Arthur once showed his belief in my discretion and also his divination that I was not
one of the supercilious intellectuals who think details of family history are tiresome and
unimportant, in a way which greatly pleased me. He confided to me the true story, which he
had had from various people of the older generation who knew the facts, as to the relations
between the two Duchesses of Devonshire. The elder Duchess, Georgiana, was the Juno of the
Whigs. It would be folly to call her the Madonna of the Whigs. It was at her eyes that the
coal porter at the Westminster Election wanted to light his pipe. Sir Joshua immortalised her
in his picture of the young mother and her child. To her the mystic poet and philosopher bent
the knee of admiration, in the enchanting couplet:

Oh, lady, nursed in pomp and pleasure, Where got you that heroic measure?

The other Duchess was born Elizabeth Harvey--the woman whose eyes still scintillate also from
Sir Joshua's canvas, with an energy so overwhelming as to be uncanny--the woman who fascinated
without actual beauty, but whose smile might have embroiled the world--the woman who stirred
even the sluggish Gibbon and made him say, with a personal vivacity and poignancy which is
unique in his writings, that if she had entered the House of Lords and beckoned the Lord Chancellor
to leave the Woolsack and follow her, he must have obeyed. Gibbon had evidently racked his
brains to think of the most audacious act of which a woman could be capable, and that quaintly
proved in his case to be the enchantment of a Lord Chancellor! If, at the present moment, there
is a lady possessed of charms equal to those of Elizabeth Duchess of Devonshire, let us hope
that the precincts of both the Lords and the Commons Houses are well guarded!

I shall not on the present occasion say more than that Lord Arthur gave me a note of the true
facts of the story, to which many allusions, generally incorrect, have appeared in various
memoirs--a story of incidents which, strangely enough, quite possibly affected the history
of the world. These incidents had as their sequel the appointment of the son of a well-known
Scottish doctor, Dr. Moore, to an Infantry regiment. That Infantry subaltern became Sir Thomas
Moore the man who lost his life in saving the British Empire, and first taught the people of
these islands and then, what is more important, the whole of Europe, that there was nothing
invincible about the troops of Napoleon, when they were faced by British regiments properly
trained, as Moore trained them at Shorncliff. Just as the destruction of the Spartan Hoplites
in the Island of Sphacteria broke the military spell cast by the armies of Sparta, so Moore's
victorious retreat to, and action at, Corunna broke the spell of the Napoleonic Legions.

Though I have Lord Arthur's notes, and though he in no way bound me to secrecy, they want an
interval longer than a hundred and ten years "prior to publication." Therefore they will rest
in my safe, or wherever else they may have been affectionately mislaid, and where it would
probably take a day's hard work to find them. There is no such secrecy and security as "filing
for future reference." When the notes are found by my literary executors, they will please
remember that they should not be given to the public until they have ample assurance that the
head of the Devonshire family sees no objection. It is not a family skeleton in any sense,
but till family facts become historic, the utmost discretion is demanded alike by courtesy
and good feeling.

I had, alas! no sooner fully realised that I had made a friend in Lord Arthur and that I might
look forward to many years of intimate intercourse with a man of knowledge and sympathy, from
whom I could learn much and in the most fascinating and delightful way, than the end came.
A short illness, followed by a rapid operation--hopeless, or almost hopeless--cut short this
honourable and gracious life. I was one of the very few people whom Lord Arthur asked to see
in the few days allowed him between life and death. He wanted to see me out of pure friendliness,
to talk about his children and to show me, as only such an act could, that he, like me, had
hoped much from our friendship. He was the kind of man who would be sure to prefer saying this
by deed rather than by word.

But for the simplicity and essential nobility of character which he possessed, he might well
have sent for me to see how a good man could die. There was everything to strengthen and so
to quiet one in the way in which he faced the message which comes to all--a message so deeply
dreaded by most of us, yet which, when it does come, proves to be not a sentence, but a reprieve--the
mandatory word that does not imprison us, but sets us free, which flings the gates and lets
us see the open heaven, instead of the walls and vaulted ceiling of the cells of which we have
been the inhabitants.

But though the very last thing that Lord Arthur was thinking about was the impression upon
my mind, that impression was intense both in kind and in degree. That short last talk at his
bedside, in which so little was said, so much felt by both of us, has never left my memory.
If for no other reason, it must be recorded here for it had, I feel, an essential if undefinable
influence upon my life.

CHAPTER XIX

MY LIFE IN LONDON IN THE 'NINETIES (Continued)

I am afraid that throughout these memoirs I have talked too much about the volumes which I
might fill, but am not filling. Yet I must do so once more in this chapter. My mother-in-law,
Mrs. Simpson, was an admirable talker and full of clear and interesting memories. I had no
sooner entered the Simpson house and family than I found that there were a hundred points of
sympathy between us. She had known everybody in London, who was worth knowing, through her
father, Mr. Nassau-Senior, and had visited with him--she acted for some twenty years as his
social companion owing to her mother's ill-health--most of the political country-houses in
England, and had known in London everyone worth knowing on the Whig side, and most of the neutrals.
Macaulay was one of her father's closest friends; so was the third Lord Lansdowne, the Lord
Henry Petty of the Cabinets of the'thirties and 'forties--Lord Aberdeen, Lord John Russell,
and Lord Palmerston, and, earlier, Lord Melbourne, Lord St. Leonards, Lord Denman, and Lord
Campbell, to mention only a few names and at random. It was her father's habit to ride every
day in the Park for reasons hygienic and social, and she rode with him. There they were sure
to be joined by the Whig statesmen who sought Senior's advice on economic points. She saw little
of the Tories,--except perhaps Mr. Gladstone, soon to become a Liberal, and Sir Robert Peel.
Disraeli was of course, in those days, considered by the strict Whigs as "impossible"--a "charlatan,"
and "adventurer," almost "impostor."

In the world of letters she saw much of Sydney Smith, who was early a friend of her father's.
She actually had the good fortune, while Miss Minnie Senior, to stop at the Combe Florey Rectory,
and to discover that the eminent wit took as much trouble to amuse his own family when alone
as to set the tables of Mayfair upon a roar. He liked to tease his girl guest by telling her
that her father, then a Master in Chancery, did not care a straw for his daughter "Minnie."
"De Minimis non curat Lex"--"the Master does not care for Minnie"--was a favourite travesty
of the well-known maxim.

Rogers was also a friend, and as a girl she remembered going to his "very small" breakfast-parties,
in the celebrated dining-room in which hung his famous pictures.

They were hung high, so as to get the light which was at the top of the room. It was this arrangement,
by the way, that made Sydney Smith say that Rogers' dining-room was like Heaven and its opposite.
There were gods and angels in the upper part, but below was "gnashing of teeth." While Rogers
talked about his pictures, he would have them taken down by his man-servant, Edmond, and placed
upon a chair at his side, or almost upon the lap of his guest, so that he might lecture about
them at his ease. Mrs. Simpson often told me of the horror she felt as a girl lest she should
throw a spoonful of soup over a Raphael or by an accident run a knife or a fork into the immortal
canvas! She had not learnt that pictures are about the most indestructible things in the world.

Through her father Mrs. Simpson also knew the great French statesmen of her day, i.e., the
middle period of the century, 1840 to 1870. He was the friend of Alexis de Tocqueville, and
of Thiers and Guizot, and of most of the statesmen and men of letters who were their contemporaries.
The leading Italian statesmen, such as Cavour, were also his friends. In fact, there were few
people in Europe worth knowing whom he did not know. What was more, he had a most astonishing
personal gift-- the gift for photographing in words the talk of the statesmen whom he encountered,
not, remember, as a mere recorder but on terms of mutual benefit. Though he liked to draw their
opinions, in both senses, they sought his wisdom and advice with equal assiduity. He was quite
as much Johnson as he was Boswell, or rather, almost as much Socrates as he was Plato, for
that is the best analogy.

Conversations with the Statesmen of the Third Empire, in two volumes, crown octavo, sounds
a pretty dull title, and yet anyone who takes the trouble to read these conversations will
find that they are some of the most vivacious dialogues in all literature. Senior's system
of recording conversations throws a curious light, by the way, upon the mechanism of the Platonic
Dialogues. For some twenty-four centuries the world has wondered how much of these Dramas of
the Soul is to be attributed to Socrates and how much to Plato, and the general verdict has
been that in most of them there is very much more Plato than Socrates. In a word, they have
been judged to be works of art in which certain very general ideas and principles derived from
Socrates are expanded, put into shape, and often greatly altered by the alleged recorder, or
rather dramatic recounter.

Mrs. Simpson told me something of her father's method of putting down his conversations which
bears closely upon the value of this theory of the Dialogues. But first I must note that Senior's
reports of conversations were famous for their extraordinary accuracy. Mrs. Simpson well remembered
an incident in proof of this statement. Her father had written out a very important talk with
Thiers in which by far the greater part of the talk was sustained as usual by the great Frenchman.
When Senior had written it out, that is about a couple of days after the conversation, he sent
it, as was his habit, to Thiers for correction. Thiers sent it back, saying that he could not
find a word to alter, adding that he was astonished to find that Senior had not only put down
his views and ideas, but had given his actual words. Yet, as a matter of fact, Senior had done
nothing of the kind. He had not even tried to do so. What he had aimed at was something very
different. His aim was to give the spirit of the conversation, to produce the extreme characteristic
impression made on his mind by the talk of his interlocutor, not the words themselves.

To show in a still more convincing way that I am making no exaggerated deduction from my premises,
I may call the further testimony given me directly by Senior's daughter. It is this testimony
which convinces me that in the Platonic dialogues there is less Plato and more Socrates than
is generally imagined. Mrs. Simpson, or Miss Senior, as she then was, once said to her father
that she would like to listen to one of his conversations and try to see whether she could
not write it down as he did. Her father, delighted that she should make the experiment, explained
to her the art as he practised it and gave her the following directions.

To begin with, you must never try to remember the actual words that you hear Thiers, or Guizot,
or Lord Aberdeen, or Mr. Bright, or whoever else it may be, use. If you begin to rack your
brains and your memory you will spoil the whole thing. You must simply sit down and write the
conversation out as you, knowing their views, think they must have spoken or ought to have
spoken. Then you will get the right result. If you consciously rely on your memory, your report
will lose all life and interest.

While the conversation was going on Senior attended very accurately to the ideas expressed
and got a thorough understanding of them. When he took up his pen he put himself in the position
of a dramatist and wrote what he felt sure his interlocutor would have said on the particular
theme. He put himself, that is, in his interlocutor's place. The thoughts got clothed with
the right words, though, no doubt, under great compression.

That is interesting and curious, not solely from the point of view of Plato, but of a great
many of the speeches in classical history. People have often wondered whether the men who speak
so wisely and so well in Thucydides or Tacitus really talked like that. Judging from Senior's
case, they very probably did. Thucydides, indeed, when describing his method, uses expressions
by no means at variance with the Senior system of reporting, the system which, though aiming
only at the spirit, often, if we are to believe Thiers, hits the words also. It is quite possible
then that the British chieftain really made the speech recorded as his in Tacitus, the speech
which contains what is perhaps the greatest of all political epigrams, "I know these Romans.
They are the people who make a desert and call it Peace."

There is another point in regard to the secret of Senior's power of recording conversations
which is worth noting by modern psychologists. I cannot help thinking that what Senior did,
unconsciously of course, was to trust to his subconsciousness. That amiable and highly impressionable,
if dumb, spirit which sits within us all, got busy when Thiers or Guizot was talking. The difficulty
was to get out of him what he had heard, and had at once transferred to the files in the Memory
cupboard. Senior, without knowing it, had, I doubt not, some little trick which enabled him
to get easily en rapport with his subconsciousness, and so tap the rich and recently stored
vintage. His writing was probably half automatic. It certainly was vivid and dramatic in a
high degree.

If anyone wants proof of my eulogy of Nassau-Senior's powers as a conversationalist, let him
go to the London Library and get down Senior's works. Perhaps the best volume to begin with
is Conversations and Journals in Egypt--a book which Lord Cromer used to declare was the best
thing ever written about Egypt. I remember also Sir Mountstuart Grant-Duff saying that one
of the conversations with Hekekyan Bey, describing how he--the Bey--on a certain occasion saw
Mehemet sitting alone in his Palace by the Sea, deserted by all his followers, was as poignant
as anything in Tacitus. It will be remembered that in 1840 we sent a fleet to Egypt under Sir
Charles Napier, to enforce our Syrian policy. The private instructions given by Lord Palmerston
to his admiral were as pointed as they were concise: "Tell Mehemet Ali that if he does not
change his policy and do what I wish, I will chuck him into the Nile." In due course our fleet
appeared at Alexandria. The Pasha was at first recalcitrant, but when our ships took up position
opposite the town and palace and cleared for action he gave way and agreed to the British terms.
During the crisis and when it looked as if the old tyrant was either bent upon political and
personal suicide, or else had lost all sense of proportion, the courtiers and the people of
Alexandria generally fled from their doomed Lord and Master. As if by magic his palace was
utterly deserted. No Monarch falls so utterly as an Oriental Despot. Hekekyan Bey described
the scene of which he was a witness in words which could hardly be bettered:

I was then the engineer charged with the defences of the coast. We were expecting an attack
from Sir Charles Napier, and I had been to Rosetta to inspect the batteries. It was on a tempestuous
night that I returned to Alexandria, and went to the palace on the shore of the former Island
of Pharos, to make my report to Mehemet Ali.

The halls and passages, which I used to find full of Mamelukes and officers strutting about
in the fullness of their contempt for a Christian, were empty. Without encountering a single
attendant, I reached his room overlooking the sea; it was dimly lighted by a few candles of
bad Egyptian wax, with enormous untrimmed wicks. Here, at the end of his divan, I found him
rolled up in a sort of ball,--solitary, motionless, apparently absorbed in thought. The waves
were breaking heavily on the mole, and I expected every instant the casements to be blown in.
The roar of wind and sea was almost awful, but he did not seem conscious of it.

I stood before him silent. Suddenly he said, as if speaking to himself, "I think I can trust
Ibrahim." Again he was silent for some time, and then desired me to fetch Motus Bey, his admiral.
I found him, and brought him to the Viceroy. Neither of them spoke, until the Viceroy, after
looking at him steadily for some minutes, said to me, "He is drunk; take him away." I did so,
and so ended my visit without making any report.

That heart-cry of the deserted tyrant, "I think I can trust Ibrahim"--his own son, in all probability,
though called his stepson (Ibrahim's mother was a widow)--is comparable to the cry of Augustus:
"Varus, Varus, give me back my legions!"

Wonderfully Tacitean is a later comment of the Pasha--an Armenian by birth. He told Senior
that the Pasha could never forget or forgive that he had seen his master in the day of his
humiliation. So intolerable was the thought that Mehemet Ali made two secret attempts to kill
his faithful servant. "He wished me to die, but he did not wish to be suspected of having killed
me." In my recollections of Lord Cromer, in an earlier chapter, I have told a story of one
of Mehemet Ali's removals of inconvenient servants which is well worth recalling in this context.

If I say much more about Mr. Nassau-Senior I shall fill a book. I admit that it would be a
very curious and attractive work, for he was in the truest sense a man of note, but I cannot
put a book inside a book. Therefore this must be, not merely one of my unwritten chapters,
but one of my unwritten books.

In the same way, I cannot dwell upon dozens of delightful men and women with whom I became
acquainted through my wife and her people, and who remained fast and good friends, though,
alas! many of them have long since joined the majority,--for example, Lecky, Leslie Stephen,
and Mr. Justice Stephen, and Mr. Henry Reeve of the Edinburgh. The last- named, very soon after
our acquaintanceship, invited me to write for him, and thus I was able to add the Edinburgh
as well as the Quarterly to the trophies of my pen. My wife and I used often to dine at his
house--always a place of good company even if the aura was markedly Victorian. Reeve was full
of stories of how Wordsworth used to stop with him when he came up to London in his later years.
He lent his Court suit to Wordsworth in order that the Poet-Laureate should present himself
at a Levee in proper form. But again these remembrances must be repressed for reasons of space.

Just as I have taken the Arthur Russell group as a type of the people with whom my marriage
made me friends, so I shall take as typical two men of high distinction who were friends of
my mother-in-law, and whom I saw either at her house or at houses of friends to whom we were
bidden through the kindly, old-fashioned institution of wedding-parties. These were Matthew
Arnold and Robert Browning. I met Matthew Arnold at a dinner at Mrs. Simpson's, given largely,
I think, because I expressed my desire to see a man for whose poetry and prose I had come to
have an intense admiration. When quite young I was a little inclined to turn up my nose at
Matthew Arnold's verse, though I admit I had a good deal of it by heart. By the time, however,
that I had got to my twenty-seventh year, I bent my knee in reverent adoration at the shrine,
and realised what the two Obermann poems and The Grande Chartreuse stanzas meant, not only
to the world but to me.

I was captivated in advance by Matthew Arnold's literary charm. I delighted also in the stories
about him of which London and Oxford were full. I had only to watch him and listen to his talk
across the dinner- table to realise the truth of his own witty self-criticism. When he married,
he is said to have described his wife thus: "Ah! you must see my Fanny. You are sure to like
her. She has all my graces and none of my airs." The said airs and graces were, of course,
only a gentle and pleasant pose. They winged with humour Matthew Arnold's essential, I had
almost said sublime, seriousness. Truly he was like one of the men for whom he longed:

  Who without sadness shall be sage,
   And gay without frivolity.

