"It may be considered vanity and frailty in me, but when I was elected Governor of the State
on fair, honorable principles by the masses, without intrigue or management of party or corrupt
politicians, I deemed it the decided approbation of my countrymen, and consequently a great honor."

The admonition of this sage statesman to the rising generation upon the subject of office-seeking,
is worthy of profound consideration:

"But were I to live over again another life, I think I would have the moral courage to refrain
from aspiring for any office within the gift of the people.  By no means do I believe a person
should be sordid and selfish in all his actions, yet cannot a person be more useful to the
public if he possesses talents in other situations than in office?"

Some memory of the well-known ingratitude of republics evidently entered like iron into his
very soul when his memoirs were written:

"Moreover, a public officer may toil and labor all his best days with the utmost fidelity and
patriotism, and the masses who reap the reward of his labors frequently permit him, without
any particular fault upon his part, to live and die in his old age with disrespect. Witness
the punishment inflicted on Socrates, on our Saviour, and many others for no crime whatever.
But this contumely and disrespect ought not to deter a good and qualified man from entering
the public service, if he is satisfied that the good of the country requires it."

At this point in the career of this eminent public servant, deep sympathy is aroused on account
of the conflict between his humility and a not very clearly-defined belief that something was
due to the great office to which he had been elevated.  As preliminary, however, to accomplishing
what was for the best interests of the people it must not be forgotten that "my first object
was to soften down the public mind to its sober senses."  That no living man was better qualified
for the accomplishment of so praiseworthy a purpose will now appear:  "It has been my opinion
of my humble self, that whatever small forte I might possess was to conciliate and soften down
a turbulent and furious people."

This being all satisfactorily accomplished and the abundant reward of the peacemaker in sure
keeping for this humble instrument, his efforts were now directed toward the discharge of the
duties of the office to which he had so unexpectedly been called.

That this hitherto unquestioned "friend of the people" was now manifesting a slight tendency
toward the frailties and vanities of the common run of men, will appear from the following:

"It was my nature not to feel or appear elevated, but I discovered that my appearance and deportment,
at times, might look like affected humility or mock modesty, which I sincerely despised, and
then I would straighten up a little."

It may be truly said of Reynolds, as Macaulay said of Horace Walpole: "The conformation of
his mind was such that whatever was little seemed to him great; and whatever was great, seemed
to him little."

Having in his inaugural given expression to the noble sentiment that "proscription for opinion's
sake is the worst enemy to the Republic," he at once generously dispelled whatever apprehensions
his late opponents might feel as to what was to befall them, by the assurance:  "Therefore,
all those who honestly and honorably supported my respectable opponent in the last election
for Governor shall experience from me no inconvenience on that account." Unfortunately no light
is shed upon the interesting inquiry as to what "inconvenience" was experienced by those who
had otherwise than "honestly and honorably" supported his respectable opponent in the late contest.

