 That means that we are all dependent upon one another. There would be little in life for any one
if he were to do without all that others have done for him.

There is something which each member of a community can do to make life better for others.
If he does this willingly and well, he co-operates with his fellow men and assists in the great
upbuilding of the nation. And the amount of service the man or woman, boy or girl can render
those about him is the measure of his worth to his neighborhood, his State, or his country.
It is good for us to ask ourselves this question: How can I be helpful
in the community where I live, which has done so much for me? If we
try to give faithful service, working cheerfully with others, we are
truly patriotic. Every court
is a potential conspiracy against freedom, and the League cannot tolerate merely court appointments.
If courts are to exist anywhere in the new world of the future, they will be wise to stand
aloof from international meddling. However, difficulties with the Indians were not over. The
first company of settlers that arrived had been left quite unmolested.

But now, as spring opened, bands of Indian hunters and warriors began to make life wretched
for them all. There is no doubt that the red men did not like to have the settlers kill the game,
or scare it off by clearing up the land; but the principal motive
for the attacks was the desire for scalps and plunder, just as it
was in assailing other Indian tribes.

The Indians became a constant terror. They killed the settlers while working in the clearings, hunting
game, or getting salt at the licks. They loved to lure on the unwary by imitating the gobbling of
a turkey or the call of some wild beast, and then pounce upon their
human prey. For although
the men were brave and willing, they had never been trained for war, and were not even supplied with
muskets or powder.
Fortunately, the British did not know how badly off the American
army was, and were taking their ease inside their own defenses. His gay spirit found expression also in the clothes he wore. Listen
to this description of him: "His fighting jacket shone with dazzling buttons and was covered
with gold braid; his hat was looped up with a golden star and decorated with a black ostrich
plume; his fine buff gauntlets reached to the elbow; around his waist was tied a splendid yellow
sash, and his spurs were pure gold." These spurs, of which he was immensely proud, were a gift
from Baltimore women. At seventeen he entered William and Mary College
at Williamsburg, Virginia. Here he worked hard, sometimes studying fifteen hours a day. But
for his sound body and strong health he must have broken down under
such a severe strain. It was his strong desire that he might meet his death
while leading a cavalry charge, and he had his wish. For he was struck
down near Richmond, in 1864, while he was leading an attack against
Sheridan.

He died when he was only thirty-one, deeply mourned by
all his m