 (9) Lit. "he should associate with himself those of the rest"; i.e.
    his colleagues or other members of the force.

So, too, with regard to spies and intelligencers. Before war commences your business is to
provide yourself with a supply of people friendly to both states, or maybe merchants  (since
states are ready to receive the importer of goods with open arms); sham deserters may be found
occasionally useful. (10) Not, of course, that the confidence you feel in your spies must ever
cause you to neglect outpost duty; indeed your state of preparation should at any moment be
precisely what it ought to be, supposing the approach or the imminent arrival of the enemy
were to be announced. Let a spy be ever so faithful, there is always the risk he may fail to
report his intelligence at the critical moment, since the obstacles which present themselves
in war are not to be counted on the fingers.

 (10) Cf. "Cyrop." VI. i. 39, where one of the Persians, Araspas,
    undertakes to play this role to good effect.

But to proceed to another topic. The enemy is less likely to get wind of an advance of cavalry,
if the orders for march were passed from mouth to mouth rather than announced by voice of herald,
or public notice. (11) Accordingly, in addition to (12) this method of ordering the march by
word passed along the line, the appointment of file-leaders seems desirable, who again are
to be supplemented by section-leaders, (13) so that the number of men to whom each petty officer
has to transmit an order will be very few; (14) while the section-leaders will deploy and increase
the front, whatever the formation, without confusion, whenever there is occasion for the movement.
(15)

 (11) i.e. "given by general word of command, or in writing." As to the
    "word-of-mouth command," see above, S. 3; "Hell." VII. v. 9; and
    for the "herald," see "Anab." III. iv. 36.

 (12) Reading {pros to dia p.}, or if {pros to}... transl. "with a
    view to."

 (13) Lit. pempadarchs, i.e. No. 6 in the file. See "Cyrop." II. i. 22
    foll., iii. 21.

 (14) Lit. "so that each officer may pass the word to as few as
    possible."

 (15) Cf. "Anab." IV. vi. 6.

When an advanced guard is needed, I say for myself I highly approve of secret pickets and outposts,
if only because in supplying a guard to protect your friends you are contriving an ambuscade
to catch the enemy. Also the outposts will be less exposed to a secret attack, being themselves
unseen, and yet a source of great alarm to the enemy; since the bare knowledge that there are
outposts somewhere, though where precisely no man knows, will prevent the enemy from feeling
confident, and oblige him to mistrust every tenable position. An exposed outpost, on the contrary,
presents to the broad eye of day its dangers and also its weaknesses. (16) Besides which, the
holder of a concealed outpost can always place a few exposed vedettes beyond his hidden pickets,
and so endeavour to decoy the enemy into an ambuscade. Or he may play the part of trapper with
effect by placing a second exposed outpost in rear of the other; a device which may serve to
take in the unwary foeman quite as well as that before named.

 (16) Lit. "makes plain its grounds of terror as of confidence."

Indeed I take it to be the mark of a really prudent general never to run a risk of his own
choosing, except where it is plain to him beforehand, that he will get the better of his adversary.
To play into the enemy's hands may more fitly be described as treason to one's fellow-combatants
than true manliness. So, too, true generalship consists in attacking where the enemy is weakest,
even if the point be some leagues distant. Severity of toil weighs nothing in the scale against
the danger of engaging a force superior to your own. (17) Still, if on any occasion the enemy
advance in any way to place himself between fortified points that are friendly to you, let
him be never so superior in force, your game is to attack on whichever flank you can best conceal
your advance, or, still better, on both flanks simultaneously; since, while one detachment
is retiring after delivering its attack, a charge pressed home from the opposite quarter cannot
fail to throw the enemy into confusion and to give safety to your friends.

 (17) N.B. Throughout this treatise the author has to meet the case of
    a small force of cavalry acting on the defensive.

How excellent a thing it is to endeavour to ascertain an enemy's position by means of spies
and so forth, as in ancient story; yet best of all, in my opinion, is it for the commander
to try to seize some coign of vantage, from which with his own eyes he may descry the movements
of the enemy and watch for any error on his part. (18)

 (18) As, e.g. Epaminondas at Tegea. See "Hell." VII. v. 9.

Whatever may be snatched by ruse, thief fashion, (19) your business is to send a competent
patrol to seize; or again where capture by coup de main (20) is practicable, you will despatch
a requisite body of troops to effect a coup de main. Or take the case: the enemy is on the
march in some direction, and a portion of his force becomes detached from his main body or
through excess of confidence is caught straggling; do not let the opportunity escape, but make
it a rule always to pursue a weaker with a stronger force. (21) These, indeed, are rules of
procedure, which it only requires a simple effort of the mind to appreciate. Creatures far
duller of wit than man have this ability: kites and falcons, when anything is left unguarded,
pounce and carry it off and retire into safety without being caught; or wolves, again, will
hunt down any quarry left widowed of its guard, or thieve what they can in darksome corners.
(22) In case a dog pursues and overtakes them, should he chance to be weaker the wolf attacks
him, or if stronger, the wolf will slaughter (23) his quarry and make off. At other times,
if the pack be strong enough to make light of the guardians of a flock, they will marshal their
battalions, as it were, some to drive off the guard and others to effect the capture, and so
by stealth or fair fight they provide themselves with the necessaries of life. I say, if dumb
beasts are capable of conducting a raid with so much sense and skill, it is hard if any average
man cannot prove himself equally intelligent with creatures which themselves fall victims to
the craft of man.

 (19) e.g. defiles, bridges, outposts, stores, etc.

 (20) e.g. a line of outposts, troops in billets or bivouac, etc.

 (21) "It is a maxim, the quarry should be weaker than the pursuer."

 (22) Zeune cf. Ael. "N. A." viii. 14, on the skill of wolves in
    hunting.

 (23) For {aposphaxas} Courier suggests {apospasas}, "dragging off what
    he can."

V

