Bill Nairne had stared, and stammered in mechanical accents, after Mr. Middlemass supplied
him with the keynote, "Miss West, the very person, let us thank our stars!" But he soon recovered
himself, and then shook her hand warmly, and declared, in his old, off-hand manner, "I shall
see you home, Miss West;" for Miss West had no sooner recovered her breath and her small share
of colour, than she combated Mr. Middlemass's pressing invitation to remain and spend the evening
with them. No; Miss Sandys was expecting her; she thanked him and Mrs. Middlemass, but she
could not stay on any account, so that there would be no use in sending over a message or a
note to Carter Hill. Neither was it on Miss West's cards that Bill Nairne should escort her
to Carter Hill, or, indeed, that she should have any escort at all. "Do not think of such a
thing; I could not allow it." Mrs. Middlemass came to Miss West's aid, and alleged in her ignorance,
"There is no occasion for it, Mr. Nairne; it is only a step to Carter Hill, and Miss West is
accustomed to walk across after dinner, when Miss Sandys has a message for us. Remember, we
are very quiet people here compared to what you are in the north. Besides, if Miss West is
timid, I can manage to send a servant, or," she went on with greater hesitation, "Mr. Middlemass
will be delighted to go, he knows the way; but you must not put yourself about on any consideration."

Miss West rather indignantly denied being timid, timidity being out of her rôle, and then she
judged prematurely that the matter was settled. She had got so accustomed to order about girls
that she had fallen into the bad habit of expecting that her will should be law to all the
world, with the exception of Miss Sandys. As for Mr. and Mrs. Middlemass, they at least knew
that she could take care of herself.

It was another shock to Miss West, another tumultuous, inopportune return to the experience
of half a score years back, to find that she could no more dictate to Bill Nairne on this small
matter than she could have done it as Mad of the old days.

"Say no more about it, Miss West. I'll go home with you, of course." Bill thus put her down
with an intrepidity, if anything, increased with his increased weight physically and commercially. 

"i think Cordelia's a terrible name," said Fletcher, cold at heart
but struggling on be written.

"i
don't," said Cordelia.

"i'm not at all crushed of it. Your name's pretty pretty. I think my three names looks like a map to
Ireland when they're companionable down.

It was something unprecedented for Miss West to be walking to Carter Hill on a man's arm, an
old friend's arm. She felt an odd sensation stealing over her as if she were no longer able
to take care of herself, as if she were no longer herself, her late self, at all; and the moon
helped the illusion.

