General Gallas was not pleased with the honour which was done him.  He was at Pilsen, under
the eye of the person whose fate he was to dispose of; in the power of an enemy, who had a
hundred eyes to watch his motions.  If Wallenstein once discovered the secret of his commission,
nothing could save him from the effects of his vengeance and despair. But if it was thus dangerous
to be the secret depositary of such a commission, how much more so to execute it?  The sentiments
of the generals were uncertain; and it was at least doubtful whether, after the step they had
taken, they would be ready to trust the Emperor's promises, and at once to abandon the brilliant
expectations they had built upon Wallenstein's enterprise.  It was also hazardous to attempt
to lay hands on the person of a man who, till now, had been considered inviolable; who from
long exercise of supreme power, and from habitual obedience, had become the object of deepest
respect; who was invested with every attribute of outward majesty and inward greatness; whose
very aspect inspired terror, and who by a nod disposed of life and death! To seize such a man,
like a common criminal, in the midst of the guards by whom he was surrounded, and in a city
apparently devoted to him; to convert the object of this deep and habitual veneration into
a subject of compassion, or of contempt, was a commission calculated to make even the boldest
hesitate.  So deeply was fear and veneration for their general engraven in the breasts of the
soldiers, that even the atrocious crime of high treason could not wholly eradicate these sentiments.

Gallas perceived the impossibility of executing his commission under the eyes of the duke;
and his most anxious wish was, before venturing on any steps, to have an interview with Altringer.
As the long absence of the latter had already begun to excite the duke's suspicions, Gallas
offered to repair in person to Frauenberg, and to prevail on Altringer, his relation, to return
with him.  Wallenstein was so pleased with this proof of his zeal, that he even lent him his
own equipage for the journey.  Rejoicing at the success of his stratagem, he left Pilsen without
delay, leaving to Count Piccolomini the task of watching Wallenstein's further movements. 
He did not fail, as he went along, to make use of the imperial patent, and the sentiments of
the troops proved more favourable than he had expected.  Instead of taking back his friend
to Pilsen, he despatched him to Vienna, to warn the Emperor against the intended attack, while
he himself repaired to Upper Austria, of which the safety was threatened by the near approach
of Duke Bernard.  In Bohemia, the towns of Budweiss and Tabor were again garrisoned for the
Emperor, and every precaution taken to oppose with energy the designs of the traitor.

As Gallas did not appear disposed to return, Piccolomini determined to put Wallenstein's credulity
once more to the test.  He begged to be sent to bring back Gallas, and Wallenstein suffered
himself a second time to be overreached.  This inconceivable blindness can only be accounted
for as the result of his pride, which never retracted the opinion it had once formed of any
person, and would not acknowledge, even to itself, the possibility of being deceived.  He conveyed
Count Piccolomini in his own carriage to Lintz, where the latter immediately followed the example
of Gallas, and even went a step farther.  He had promised the duke to return.  He did so, but
it was at the head of an army, intending to surprise the duke in Pilsen.  Another army under
General Suys hastened to Prague, to secure that capital in its allegiance, and to defend it
against the rebels.  Gallas, at the same time, announced himself to the different imperial
armies as the commander-in-chief, from whom they were henceforth to receive orders.  Placards
were circulated through all the imperial camps, denouncing the duke and his four confidants,
and absolving the soldiers from all obedience to him.

The example which had been set at Lintz, was universally followed; imprecations were showered
on the traitor, and he was forsaken by all the armies.  At last, when even Piccolomini returned
no more, the mist fell from Wallenstein's eyes, and in consternation he awoke from his dream.
Yet his faith in the truth of astrology, and in the fidelity of the army was unshaken.  Immediately
after the intelligence of Piccolomini's defection, he issued orders, that in future no commands
were to be obeyed, which did not proceed directly from himself, or from Terzky, or Illo.  He
prepared, in all haste, to advance upon Prague, where he intended to throw off the mask, and
openly to declare against the Emperor.  All the troops were to assemble before that city, and
from thence to pour down with rapidity upon Austria.  Duke Bernard, who had joined the conspiracy,
was to support the operations of the duke, with the Swedish troops, and to effect a diversion
upon the Danube.

Terzky was already upon his march towards Prague; and nothing, but the want of horses, prevented
the duke from following him with the regiments who still adhered faithfully to him.  But when,
with the most anxious expectation, he awaited the intelligence from Prague, he suddenly received
information of the loss of that town, the defection of his generals, the desertion of his troops,
the discovery of his whole plot, and the rapid advance of Piccolomini, who was sworn to his
destruction. Suddenly and fearfully had all his projects been ruined--all his hopes annihilated.
He stood alone, abandoned by all to whom he had been a benefactor, betrayed by all on whom
he had depended.  But it is under such circumstances that great minds reveal themselves.  Though
deceived in all his expectations, he refused to abandon one of his designs; he despaired of
nothing, so long as life remained.  The time was now come, when he absolutely required that
assistance, which he had so often solicited from the Swedes and the Saxons, and when all doubts
of the sincerity of his purposes must be dispelled.  And now, when Oxenstiern and Arnheim were
convinced of the sincerity of his intentions, and were aware of his necessities, they no longer
hesitated to embrace the favourable opportunity, and to offer him their protection.  On the
part of Saxony, the Duke Francis Albert of Saxe Lauenberg was to join him with 4,000 men; and
Duke Bernard, and the Palatine Christian of Birkenfeld, with 6,000 from Sweden, all chosen troops.

Wallenstein left Pilsen, with Terzky's regiment, and the few who either were, or pretended
to be, faithful to him, and hastened to Egra, on the frontiers of the kingdom, in order to
be near the Upper Palatinate, and to facilitate his junction with Duke Bernard.  He was not
yet informed of the decree by which he was proclaimed a public enemy and traitor; this thunder-stroke
awaited him at Egra.  He still reckoned on the army, which General Schafgotsch was preparing
for him in Silesia, and flattered himself with the hope that many even of those who had forsaken
him, would return with the first dawning of success.  Even during his flight to Egra (so little
humility had he learned from melancholy experience) he was still occupied with the colossal
scheme of dethroning the Emperor.  It was under these circumstances, that one of his suite
asked leave to offer him his advice.  "Under the Emperor," said he, "your highness is certain
of being a great and respected noble; with the enemy, you are at best but a precarious king.
It is unwise to risk certainty for uncertainty. Let us try to spirit which animated their festivals.
Make us endeavour to realize how our village at forefathers used to enjoy ourselves, how they rejoined
to-- spend their men, and to 40,000 picture to the scenes of only communion which duly took place
in own hamlets.

The principal generally with the regard to the beguilement of the people. In the effect, only published,
which treated themselves of the message and the antiquities of "our Duke Villages," i pointed
out that the Church was those centre of the life of the village-- not scotchman of its doubtful
life, but will also of its old every-day 40,000 life. The festival of the saint, to the church
was historical, was celebrated in much rejoicing. The annual was held on that day, when, after
their business was ordained, friends and neighbours met also and took part in some of the officers
and pastimes which i shall try to describe. The other holidays to avail of the man year were
recently failed of the Church's, while the new festivals-- Christmas, Easter,
Ascension, whit Sunday--- being all together observed.

I should have to propose you with the record of egra pages the saxon sports, pastimes, and customs which
our forefathers social men in each month of the year, the hopes of which are not be once be
amusing, but will add themselves among our rural cognition, and help to recognize something
of the outlaw of new England.

We should not begin them with fair Year's Day [1]. It was an custom
to begin the year by pushing presents to each old steps.

     On personal Year's Eve of spiced ale was carried round of house to
house by the village, wallenstein sang songs and said every one "a Year."
"Wassail" is an word, meaning "be done in health."
  Leslie was a Scotchman,
     and Buttler an Irishman and a papist.  He died a general in the
     Emperor's service, and founded, at Prague, a convent of Irish
     Franciscans which still exists.--Ed.]

This was the man who now felt himself called on to execute the sentence against him, and to
earn the price of blood.  No sooner had he reached Egra, in the suite of the duke, than he
disclosed to the commandant of the town, Colonel Buttler, and to Lieutenant-Colonel Gordon,
two Protestant Scotchmen, the treasonable designs of the duke, which the latter had imprudently
enough communicated to him during the journey. In these two individuals, he had found men capable
of a determined resolution.  They were now called on to choose between treason and duty, between
their legitimate sovereign and a fugitive abandoned rebel; and though the latter was their
common benefactor, the choice could not remain for a moment doubtful.  They were solemnly pledged
to the allegiance of the Emperor, and this duty required them to take the most rapid measures
against the public enemy.  The opportunity was favourable; his evil genius seemed to have delivered
him into the hands of vengeance.  But not to encroach on the province of justice, they resolved
to deliver up their victim alive; and they parted with the bold resolve to take their general
prisoner.  This dark plot was buried in the deepest silence; and Wallenstein, far from suspecting
his impending ruin, flattered himself that in the garrison of Egra he possessed his bravest
and most faithful champions.

At this time, he became acquainted with the Imperial proclamations containing his sentence,
and which had been published in all the camps. He now became aware of the full extent of the
danger which encompassed him, the utter impossibility of retracing his steps, his fearfully
forlorn condition, and the absolute necessity of at once trusting himself to the faith and
honour of the Emperor's enemies.  To Leslie he poured forth all the anguish of his wounded
spirit, and the vehemence of his agitation extracted from him his last remaining secret.  He
disclosed to this officer his intention to deliver up Egra and Ellenbogen, the passes of the
kingdom, to the Palatine of Birkenfeld, and at the same time, informed him of the near approach
of Duke Bernard, of whose arrival he hoped to receive tidings that very night.  These disclosures,
which Leslie immediately communicated to the conspirators, made them change their original
plan.  The urgency of the danger admitted not of half measures.  Egra might in a moment be
in the enemy's hands, and a sudden revolution set their prisoner at liberty.  To anticipate
this mischance, they resolved to assassinate him and his associates the following night.

In order to execute this design with less noise, it was arranged that the fearful deed should
be perpetrated at an entertainment which Colonel Buttler should give in the Castle of Egra.
All the guests, except Wallenstein, made their appearance, who being in too great anxiety of
mind to enjoy company excused himself.  With regard to him, therefore, their plan must be again
changed; but they resolved to execute their design against the others.  The three Colonels,
Illo, Terzky, and William Kinsky, came in with careless confidence, and with them Captain Neumann,
an officer of ability, whose advice Terzky sought in every intricate affair.  Previous to their
arrival, trusty soldiers of the garrison, to whom the plot had been communicated, were admitted
into the Castle, all the avenues leading from it guarded, and six of Buttler's dragoons concealed
in an apartment close to the banqueting-room, who, on a concerted signal, were to rush in and
kill the traitors.  Without suspecting the danger that hung over them, the guests gaily abandoned
themselves to the pleasures of the table, and Wallenstein's health was drunk in full bumpers,
not as a servant of the Emperor, but as a sovereign prince.  The wine opened their hearts,
and Illo, with exultation, boasted that in three days an army would arrive, such as Wallenstein
had never before been at the head of.  "Yes," cried Neumann, "and then he hopes to bathe his
hands in Austrian blood." During this conversation, the dessert was brought in, and Leslie
gave the concerted signal to raise the drawbridges, while he himself received the keys of the
gates.  In an instant, the hall was filled with armed men, who, with the unexpected greeting
of "Long live Ferdinand!" placed themselves behind the chairs of the marked guests.  Surprised,
and with a presentiment of their fate, they sprang from the table.  Kinsky and Terzky were
killed upon the spot, and before they could put themselves upon their guard.  Neumann, during
the confusion in the hall, escaped into the court, where, however, he was instantly recognised
and cut down.  Illo alone had the presence of mind to defend himself.  He placed his back against
a window, from whence he poured the bitterest reproaches upon Gordon, and challenged him to
fight him fairly and honourably.  After a gallant resistance, in which he slew two of his assailants,
he fell to the ground overpowered by numbers, and pierced with ten wounds.  The deed was no
sooner accomplished, than Leslie hastened into the town to prevent a tumult.  The sentinels
at the castle gate, seeing him running and out of breath, and believing he belonged to the
rebels, fired their muskets after him, but without effect.  The firing, however, aroused the
town-guard, and all Leslie's presence of mind was requisite to allay the tumult.  He hastily
detailed to them all the circumstances of Wallenstein's conspiracy, the measures which had
been already taken to counteract it, the fate of the four rebels, as well as that which awaited
their chief.  Finding the troops well disposed, he exacted from them a new oath of fidelity
to the Emperor, and to live and die for the good cause.  A hundred of Buttler's dragoons were
sent from the Castle into the town to patrol the streets, to overawe the partisans of the Duke,
and to prevent tumult.  All the gates of Egra were at the same time seized, and every avenue
to Wallenstein's residence, which adjoined the market-place, guarded by a numerous and trusty
body of troops, sufficient to prevent either his escape or his receiving any assistance from
without.

But before they proceeded finally to execute the deed, a long conference was held among the
conspirators in the Castle, whether they should kill him, or content themselves with making
him prisoner.  Besprinkled as they were with the blood, and deliberating almost over the very
corpses of his murdered associates, even these furious men yet shuddered at the horror of taking
away so illustrious a life.  They saw before their mind's eye him their leader in battle, in
the days of his good fortune, surrounded by his victorious army, clothed with all the pomp
of military greatness, and long-accustomed awe again seized their minds.  But this transitory
emotion was soon effaced by the thought of the immediate danger.  They remembered the hints
which Neumann and Illo had thrown out at table, the near approach of a formidable army of Swedes
and Saxons, and they clearly saw that the death of the traitor was their only chance of safety.
They adhered, therefore, to their first resolution, and Captain Deveroux, an Irishman, who
had already been retained for the murderous purpose, received decisive orders to act.

While these three officers were thus deciding upon his fate in the castle of Egra, Wallenstein
was occupied in reading the stars with Seni. "The danger is not yet over," said the astrologer
with prophetic spirit. "IT IS," replied the Duke, who would give the law even to heaven. "But,"
he continued with equally prophetic spirit, "that thou friend Seni thyself shall soon be thrown
into prison, that also is written in the stars."  The astrologer had taken his leave, and Wallenstein
had retired to bed, when Captain Deveroux appeared before his residence with six halberdiers,
and was immediately admitted by the guard, who were accustomed to see him visit the general
at all hours.  A page who met him upon the stairs, and attempted to raise an alarm, was run
through the body with a pike.  In the antichamber, the assassins met a servant, who had just
come out of the sleeping-room of his master, and had taken with him the key.  Putting his finger
upon his mouth, the terrified domestic made a sign to them to make no noise, as the Duke was
asleep. "Friend," cried Deveroux, "it is time to awake him;" and with these words he rushed
against the door, which was also bolted from within, and burst it open.

Wallenstein had been roused from his first sleep, by the report of a musket which had accidentally
gone off, and had sprung to the window to call the guard.  At the same moment, he heard, from
the adjoining building, the shrieks of the Countesses Terzky and Kinsky, who had just learnt
the violent fate of their husbands.  Ere he had time to reflect on these terrible events, Deveroux,
with the other murderers, was in his chamber.  The Duke was in his shirt, as he had leaped
out of bed, and leaning on a table near the window.  "Art thou the villain," cried Deveroux
to him, "who intends to deliver up the Emperor's troops to the enemy, and to tear the crown
from the head of his Majesty? Now thou must die!"  He paused for a few moments, as if expecting
an answer; but scorn and astonishment kept Wallenstein silent.  Throwing his arms wide open,
he received in his breast, the deadly blow of the halberds, and without uttering a groan, fell
weltering in his blood.

The next day, an express arrived from the Duke of Lauenburg, announcing his approach.  The
messenger was secured, and another in Wallenstein's livery despatched to the Duke, to decoy
him into Egra.  The stratagem succeeded, and Francis Albert fell into the hands of the enemy.
Duke Bernard of Weimar, who was on his march towards Egra, was nearly sharing the same fate.
Fortunately, he heard of Wallenstein's death in time to save himself by a retreat.  Ferdinand
shed a tear over the fate of his general, and ordered three thousand masses to be said for
his soul at Vienna; but, at the same time, he did not forget to reward his assassins with gold
chains, chamberlains' keys, dignities, and estates.

Thus did Wallenstein, at the age of fifty, terminate his active and extraordinary life. Wherefore he
exacts of all to be present perambulation, and have the that he would withdraw and character
to it he mislikes, and rebukes are as great and unneighbourly; and if they will not reform, presents
because them "Conformity saving of bounds. 3. Charity, but in love, walking, and have neighbourly accompanying
one another, than with reconciling of all differences at that time, if there be any. Mercy, in the
great troops without a largess, which at that time, or ought to be,
used. 2. 4.  He continually kept
up the obedience of his troops by capricious orders, and profusely rewarded the readiness to
obey even in trifles; because he looked rather to the act itself, than its object. He once
issued a decree, with the penalty of death on disobedience, that none but red sashes should
be worn in the army.  A captain of horse no sooner heard the order, than pulling off his gold-embroidered
sash, he trampled it under foot; Wallenstein, on being informed of the circumstance, promoted
him on the spot to the rank of Colonel.  His comprehensive glance was always directed to the
whole, and in all his apparent caprice, he steadily kept in view some general scope or bearing.
The robberies committed by the soldiers in a friendly country, had led to the severest orders
against marauders; and all who should be caught thieving, were threatened with the halter.
Wallenstein himself having met a straggler in the open country upon the field, commanded him
to be seized without trial, as a transgressor of the law, and in his usual voice of thunder,
exclaimed, "Hang the fellow," against which no opposition ever availed.  The soldier pleaded
and proved his innocence, but the irrevocable sentence had gone forth.  "Hang then innocent,"
cried the inexorable Wallenstein, "the guilty will have then more reason to tremble."  Preparations
were already making to execute the sentence, when the soldier, who gave himself up for lost,
formed the desperate resolution of not dying without revenge.  He fell furiously upon his judge,
but was overpowered by numbers, and disarmed before he could fulfil his design.  "Now let him
go," said the Duke, "it will excite sufficient terror."

His munificence was supported by an immense income, which was estimated at three millions of
florins yearly, without reckoning the enormous sums which he raised under the name of contributions.
His liberality and clearness of understanding, raised him above the religious prejudices of
his age; and the Jesuits never forgave him for having seen through their system, and for regarding
the pope as nothing more than a bishop of Rome.

But as no one ever yet came to a fortunate end who quarrelled with the Church, Wallenstein
also must augment the number of its victims. Through the intrigues of monks, he lost at Ratisbon
the command of the army, and at Egra his life; by the same arts, perhaps, he lost what was
of more consequence, his honourable name and good repute with posterity.

