While the King partook of this brief breakfast, the Asafeta brought the Queen some tapestry
to work at, passed bed-gowns to their Majesties, and put upon the bed some of the papers she
found upon the adjoining seats, then withdrew with the valet and what he had brought.  Their
Majesties then said their morning prayers.  Grimaldo afterwards entered.  Sometimes they signalled
to him to wait, as he came in, and called him when their prayer was over, for there was nobody
else, and the bedroom was very small.  Then Grimaldo displayed his papers, drew from his pocket
an inkstand, and worked with the King; the Queen not being hindered by her tapestry from giving
her opinion.

This work lasted more or less according to the business, or to the conversation.  Grimaldo,
upon leaving with his papers, found the adjoining room empty, and a valet in that beyond, who,
seeing him pass, entered into the empty room, crossed it, and summoned the Asafeta, who immediately
came and presented to the King his slippers and his dressing- gown; he at once passed across
the empty room and entered into a cabinet, where he dressed himself, followed by three valets
(never changed) and by the Duc del Arco, or the Marquis de Santa Cruz, and after by both, nobody
else ever being present at the ceremony.

The Queen, as soon as the King had passed into his cabinet, put on her stockings and shoes
alone with the Asafeta, who gave her her dressing- gown.  It was the only moment in which this
person could speak to the Queen, or the Queen to her; but this moment did not stretch at the
most to more than half a quarter of an hour.  Had they been longer together the King would
have known it, and would have wanted to hear what kept them.  The Queen passed through the
empty chamber and entered into a fine large cabinet, where her toilette awaited her.  When
the King had dressed in his cabinet--where he often spoke to his confessor--he went to the
Queen's toilette, followed by the two seigneurs just named.  A few of the specially--privileged
were also admitted there.  This toilette lasted about three-quarters of an hour, the King and
all the rest of the company standing.

When it was over, the King half opened the door of the Hall of Mirrors, which leads into the
salon where the Court assembled, and gave his orders; then rejoined the Queen in that room
which I have so often called the empty room.  There and then took place the private audiences
of the foreign ministers, and of, the seigneurs, or other subjects who obtained them.  Once
a week, on Monday, there was a public audience, a practice which cannot be too much praised
where it is not abused.  The King, instead of half opening the door, threw it wide open, and
admitted whoever liked to enter.  People spoke to the King as much as they liked, how they
liked, and gave him in writing what they liked.  But the Spaniards resemble in nothing the
French; they are measured, discreet, respectful, brief.

After the audiences, or after amusing himself with the Queen--if there are none, the King went
to dress.  The Queen accompanied him, and they took the communion together (never separately)
about once a week, and then they heard a second mass.  The confession of the King was said
after he rose, and before he went to the Queen's toilette.

Upon returning from mass, or very shortly after, the dinner was served. It was always in the
Queen's apartment, as well as the supper, but the King and Queen had each their dishes; the
former, few, the latter, many, for she liked eating, and ate of everything; the King always
kept to the same things--soup, capon, pigeons, boiled and roast, and always a roast loin of
veal--no fruit; or salad, or cheese; pastry, rarely, never maigre; eggs, often cooked in various
fashion; and he drank nothing but champagne; the Queen the same.  When the dinner was finished,
they prayed to God together.  If anything pressing happened, Grimaldo came and gave them a
brief account of it.

About an hour after dinner, they left the apartment by a short passage accessible to the court,
and descended by a little staircase to their coach, returning by the same way.  The seigneurs
who frequented the court pretty constantly assembled, now one, now another, in this passage,
or followed their Majesties to their coaches.  Very often I saw them in this passage as they
went or returned.  The Queen always said something pleasant to whoever was there.  I will speak
elsewhere of the hunting- party their Majesties daily made.

Upon returning, the King gave his orders.  If they had not partaken of a collation in the coach,
they partook of one upon arriving.  It was for the King, a morsel of bread, a big biscuit,
some water and wine; and for the Queen, pastry and fruit in season, sometimes cheese.  The
Prince and the Princess of the Asturias, and the children, followed and waited for them in
the inner apartment.  This company withdrew in less than half a quarter of an hour.  Grimaldo
came and worked ordinarily for a long time; it was the time for the real work of the day. 
When the Queen went to confession this also was the time she selected.  Except what related
to the confession, she and her confessor had no time to say anything to each other.  The cabinet
in which she confessed to him was contiguous to the room occupied by the King, and when the
latter thought the confession too long, he opened the door and called her.  Grimaldo being
gone, they prayed together, or sometimes occupied themselves with spiritual reading until supper.
It was served like the dinner.  At both meals there were more dishes in the French style than
in the Spanish, or even the Italian.

After supper, conversation or prayers conducted them to the hour for bed, when nearly the same
observances took place as in the morning.  Finally, their Catholic Majesties everywhere had
but one wardrobe between them, and were never in private one from another.

These uniform days were the same in all places, and even during the journeys taken by their
Majesties, who were thus never separated, except for a few minutes at a time.  They passed
their lives in one long tete-a- tete.  When they travelled it was at the merest snail's pace,
and they slept on the road, night after night, in houses prepared for them.  In their coach
they were always alone; when in the palace it was the same.

The King had been accustomed to this monotonous life by his first queen, and he did not care
for any other.  The new Queen, upon arriving, soon found this out, and found also that if she
wished to rule him, she must keep him in the same room, confined as he had been kept by her
predecessor.  Alberoni was the only person admitted to their privacy. This second marriage
of the King of Spain, entirely brought about by Madame des Ursins, was very distasteful to
the Spaniards, who detested that personage most warmly, and were in consequence predisposed
to look unfavourably upon anyone she favoured.  It is true, the new Queen, on arriving, drove
out Madame des Ursins, but this showed her to be possessed of as much power as the woman she
displaced, and when she began to exercise that power in other directions the popular dislike
to her was increased.  She made no effort to mitigate it--hating the Spaniards as much as they
hated her--and it is incredible to what an extent this reciprocal aversion stretched.

When the Queen went out with the King to the chase or to the atocha, the people unceasingly
cried, as well as the citizens in their shops, "Viva el Re y la Savoyana, y la Savoyana," and
incessantly repeated, with all their lungs, "la Savoyana," which is the deceased Queen (I say
this to prevent mistake), no voice ever crying "Viva la Reina."  The Queen pretended to despise
this, but inwardly raged (as people saw), she could not habituate herself to it.  She has said
to me very frequently and more than once: "The Spaniards do not like me, and in return I hate
them," with an air of anger and of pique.

These long details upon the daily life of the King and Queen may appear trivial, but they will
not be judged so by those who know, as I do, what valuable information is to be gained from
similar particulars.  I will simply say in passing, that an experience of twenty years has
convinced me that the knowledge of such details is the key to many others, and that it is always
wanting in histories, often in memoirs the most interesting and instructive, but which would
be much more so if they had not neglected this chapter, regarded by those who do not know its
price, as a bagatelle unworthy of entering into a serious recital.  Nevertheless, I am quite
certain, that there is not a minister of state, a favourite, or a single person of whatever
rank, initiated by his office into the domestic life of sovereigns, who will not echo my sentiments.

And now let me give a more distinct account of the King of Spain than I have yet written.

Philip V. was not gifted with superior understanding or with any stock of what is called imagination.
He was cold, silent, sad, sober, fond of no pleasure except the chase, fearing society, fearing
himself, unexpansive, a recluse by taste and habits, rarely touched by others, of good sense
nevertheless, and upright, with a tolerably good knowledge of things, obstinate when he liked,
and often then not to be moved; nevertheless, easy at other times to govern and influence.

He was cold.  In his campaigns he allowed himself to be led into any position, even under a
brisk fire, without budging in the slightest; nay, amusing himself by seeing whether anybody
was afraid.  Secured and removed from danger he was the same, without thinking that his glory
could suffer by it.  He liked to make war, but was indifferent whether he went there or not;
and present or absent, left everything to the generals without doing anything himself.

He was extremely vain; could bear no opposition in any of his enterprises; and what made me
judge he liked praise, was that the Queen invariably praised him--even his face; and asked
me one day, at the end of an audience which had led us into conversation, if I did not think
him very handsome, and more so than any one I knew?--His piety was only custom, scruples, fears,
little observances, without knowing anything of religion: the Pope a divinity when not opposed
to him; in fact he had the outside religion of the Jesuits, of whom he was passionately fond.

Although his health was very good, he always feared for it; he was always looking after it.
A physician, such as the one Louis XI.  enriched so much at the end of his life; a Maitre Coythier
would have become a rich and powerful personage by his side; fortunately his physician was
a thoroughly good and honourable man, and he who succeeded him devoted to the Queen.  Philip
V. could speak well--very well, but was often hindered by idleness and self-mistrust.  To the
audiences I had with him, however, he astonished me by the precision, the grace, the easiness
of his words. He was good, easy to serve, familiar with a few.  His love of France showed itself
in everything.  He preserved much gratitude and veneration for the deceased King, and tenderness
for the late Monsieur; above all for the Dauphin, his brother, for whose loss he was never
consoled. I noticed nothing in him towards any other of the royal family, except the King;
and he never asked me concerning anybody in the Court, except, and then in a friendly manner,
the Duchesse de Beauvilliers.

