AN INTRODUCTORY COURSE

OF

QUANTITATIVE

CHEMICAL ANALYSIS

WITH

EXPLANATORY NOTES

BY

HENRY P. TALBOT

PROFESSOR OF INORGANIC CHEMISTRY AT THE MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

SIXTH EDITION, COMPLETELY REWRITTEN

PREFACE

This Introductory Course of Quantitative Analysis has been prepared to meet the needs of students
who are just entering upon the subject, after a course of qualitative analysis. It is primarily
intended to enable the student to work successfully and intelligently without the necessity
for a larger measure of personal assistance and supervision than can reasonably be given to
each member of a large class. To this end the directions are given in such detail that there
is very little opportunity for the student to go astray; but the manual is not, the author
believes, on this account less adapted for use with small classes, where the instructor, by
greater personal influence, can stimulate independent thought on the part of the pupil.

The method of presentation of the subject is that suggested by Professor A.A. Noyes' excellent
manual of Qualitative Analysis. For each analysis the procedure is given in considerable detail,
and this is accompanied by explanatory notes, which are believed to be sufficiently expanded
to enable the student to understand fully the underlying reason for each step prescribed. The
use of the book should, nevertheless, be supplemented by classroom instruction, mainly of the
character of recitations, and the student should be taught to consult larger works. The general
directions are intended to emphasize those matters upon which the beginner in quantitative
analysis must bestow special care, and to offer helpful suggestions. The student can hardly
be expected to appreciate the force of all the statements contained in these directions, or,
indeed, to retain them all in the memory after a single reading; but the instructor, by frequent
reference to special paragraphs, as suitable occasion presents itself, can soon render them
familiar to the student.

The analyses selected for practice are those comprised in the first course of quantitative
analysis at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and have been chosen, after an experience
of years, as affording the best preparation for more advanced work, and as satisfactory types
of gravimetric and volumetric methods. From the latter point of view, they also seem to furnish
the best insight into quantitative analysis for those students who can devote but a limited
time to the subject, and who may never extend their study beyond the field covered by this
manual. The author has had opportunity to test the efficiency of the course for use with such
students, and has found the results satisfactory.

In place of the usual custom of selecting simple salts as material for preliminary practice,
it has been found advantageous to substitute, in most instances, approximately pure samples
of appropriate minerals or industrial products. The difficulties are not greatly enhanced,
while the student gains in practical experience.

The analytical procedures described in the following pages have been selected chiefly with
reference to their usefulness in teaching the subject, and with the purpose of affording as
wide a variety of processes as is practicable within an introductory course of this character.
The scope of the manual precludes any extended attempt to indicate alternative procedures,
except through general references to larger works on analytical chemistry. The author is indebted
to the standard works for many suggestions for which it is impracticable to make specific acknowledgment;
no considerable credit is claimed by him for originality of procedure.

For many years, as a matter of convenience, the classes for which this text was originally
prepared were divided, one part beginning with gravimetric processes and the other with volumetric
analyses. After a careful review of the experience thus gained the conclusion has been reached
that volumetric analysis offers the better approach to the subject. Accordingly the arrangement
of the present (the sixth) edition of this manual has been changed to introduce volumetric
procedures first. Teachers who are familiar with earlier editions will, however, find that
the order of presentation of the material under the various divisions is nearly the same as
that previously followed, and those who may still prefer to begin the course of instruction
with gravimetric processes will, it is believed, be able to follow that order without difficulty.

Procedures for the determination of sulphur in insoluble sulphates, for the determination of
copper in copper ores by iodometric methods, for the determination of iron by permanganate
in hydrochloric acid solutions, and for the standardization of potassium permanganate solutions
using sodium oxalate as a standard, and of thiosulphate solutions using copper as a standard,
have been added. The determination of silica in silicates decomposable by acids, as a separate
procedure, has been omitted.

The explanatory notes have been rearranged to bring them into closer association with the procedures
to which they relate. The number of problems has been considerably increased.

The author wishes to renew his expressions of appreciation of the kindly reception accorded
the earlier editions of this manual. He has received helpful suggestions from so many of his
colleagues within the Institute, and friends elsewhere, that his sense of obligation must be
expressed to them collectively. He is under special obligations to Professor L.F. Hamilton
for assistance in the preparation of the present edition.

HENRY P. TALBOT

!Massachusetts Institute of Technology, September, 1921!.

CONTENTS

PART I. INTRODUCTION

SUBDIVISIONS OF ANALYTICAL CHEMISTRY

GENERAL DIRECTIONS
  Accuracy and Economy of Time; Notebooks; Reagents; Wash-bottles;
  Transfer of Liquids

PART II. VOLUMETRIC ANALYSIS

GENERAL DISCUSSION
  Subdivisions; The Analytical Balance; Weights; Burettes;
  Calibration of Measuring Devices
GENERAL DIRECTIONS
  Standard and Normal Solutions

!I. Neutralization Methods!

ALKALIMETRY AND ACIDIMETRY
  Preparation and Standardization of Solutions; Indicators
STANDARDIZATION OF HYDROCHLORIC ACID
DETERMINATION OF TOTAL ALKALINE STRENGTH OF SODA ASH
DETERMINATION OF ACID STRENGTH OF OXALIC ACID

!II. Oxidation Processes!

GENERAL DISCUSSION BICHROMATE PROCESS FOR THE DETERMINATION OF IRON DETERMINATION OF IRON IN
LIMONITE BY THE BICHROMATE PROCESS DETERMINATION OF CHROMIUM IN CHROME IRON ORE PERMANGANATE
PROCESS FOR THE DETERMINATION OF IRON DETERMINATION OF IRON IN LIMONITE BY THE PERMANGANATE
PROCESS DETERMINATION OF IRON IN LIMONITE BY THE ZIMMERMANN-REINHARDT PROCESS DETERMINATION
OF THE OXIDIZING POWER OF PYROLUSITE IODIMETRY DETERMINATION OF COPPER IN ORES DETERMINATION
OF ANTIMONY IN STIBNITE CHLORIMETRY DETERMINATION OF AVAILABLE CHLORINE IN BLEACHING POWDER

!III. Precipitation Methods!

DETERMINATION OF SILVER BY THE THIOCYANATE PROCESS

PART III. GRAVIMETRIC ANALYSIS

GENERAL DIRECTIONS
  Precipitation; Funnels and Filters; Filtration and Washing of
  Precipitates; Desiccators; Crucibles and their Preparation
  for Use; Ignition of Precipitates
DETERMINATION OF CHLORINE IN SODIUM CHLORIDE
DETERMINATION OF IRON AND OF SULPHUR IN FERROUS AMMONIUM SULPHATE
DETERMINATION OF SULPHUR IN BARIUM SULPHATE
DETERMINATION OF PHOSPHORIC ANHYDRIDE IN APATITE
ANALYSIS OF LIMESTONE
  Determination of Moisture; Insoluble Matter and Silica; Ferric
  Oxide and Alumina; Calcium; Magnesium; Carbon Dioxide
ANALYSIS OF BRASS
  Electrolytic Separations; Determination of Lead, Copper, Iron
  and Zinc.
DETERMINATION OF SILICA IN SILICATES

PART IV. STOICHIOMETRY

SOLUTIONS OF TYPICAL PROBLEMS PROBLEMS

APPENDIX

ELECTROLYTIC DISSOCIATION THEORY FOLDING OF A FILTER PAPER SAMPLE NOTEBOOK PAGES STRENGTH OF
REAGENTS DENSITIES AND VOLUMES OF WATER CORRECTIONS FOR CHANGE OF TEMPERATURE OF STANDARD SOLUTIONS
ATOMIC WEIGHTS LOGARITHM TABLES

QUANTITATIVE CHEMICAL ANALYSIS

PART I

INTRODUCTION

SUBDIVISIONS OF ANALYTICAL CHEMISTRY

A complete chemical analysis of a body of unknown composition involves the recognition of its
component parts by the methods of !qualitative analysis!, and the determination of the proportions
in which these components are present by the processes of !quantitative analysis!. A preliminary
qualitative examination is generally indispensable, if intelligent and proper provisions are
to be made for the separation of the various constituents under such conditions as will insure
accurate quantitative estimations.

It is assumed that the operations of qualitative analysis are familiar to the student, who
will find that the reactions made use of in quantitative processes are frequently the same
as those employed in qualitative analyses with respect to both precipitation and systematic
separation from interfering substances; but it should be noted that the conditions must now
be regulated with greater care, and in such a manner as to insure the most complete separation
possible. For example, in the qualitative detection of sulphates by precipitation as barium
sulphate from acid solution it is not necessary, in most instances, to take into account the
solubility of the sulphate in hydrochloric acid, while in the quantitative determination of
sulphates by this reaction this solubility becomes an important consideration. The operations
of qualitative analysis are, therefore, the more accurate the nearer they are made to conform
to quantitative conditions.

The methods of quantitative analysis are subdivided, according to their nature, into those
of !gravimetric analysis, volumetric analysis!, and !colorimetric analysis!. In !gravimetric!
processes the constituent to be determined is sometimes isolated in elementary form, but more
commonly in the form of some compound possessing a well-established and definite composition,
which can be readily and completely separated, and weighed either directly or after ignition.
From the weight of this substance and its known composition, the amount of the constituent
in question is determined.

In !volumetric! analysis, instead of the final weighing of a definite body, a well-defined
reaction is caused to take place, wherein the reagent is added from an apparatus so designed
that the volume of the solution employed to complete the reaction can be accurately measured.
The strength of this solution (and hence its value for the reaction in question) is accurately
known, and the volume employed serves, therefore, as a measure of the substance acted upon.
An example will make clear the distinction between these two types of analysis. The percentage
of chlorine in a sample of sodium chloride may be determined by dissolving a weighed amount
of the chloride in water and precipitating the chloride ions as silver chloride, which is then
separated by filtration, ignited, and weighed (a !gravimetric! process); or the sodium chloride
may be dissolved in water, and a solution of silver nitrate containing an accurately known
amount of the silver salt in each cubic centimeter may be cautiously added from a measuring
device called a burette until precipitation is complete, when the amount of chlorine may be
calculated from the number of cubic centimeters of the silver nitrate solution involved in
the reaction. This is a !volumetric! process, and is equivalent to weighing without the use
of a balance.

Volumetric methods are generally more rapid, require less apparatus, and are frequently capable
of greater accuracy than gravimetric methods. They are particularly useful when many determinations
of the same sort are required.

In !colorimetric! analyses the substance to be determined is converted into some compound which
imparts to its solutions a distinct color, the intensity of which must vary in direct proportion
to the amount of the compound in the solution. Such solutions are compared with respect to
depth of color with standard solutions containing known amounts of the colored compound, or
of other similar color-producing substance which has been found acceptable as a color standard.
Colorimetric methods are, in general, restricted to the determinations of very small quantities,
since only in dilute solutions are accurate comparisons of color possible.

GENERAL DIRECTIONS

The following paragraphs should be read carefully and thoughtfully. A prime essential for success
as an analyst is attention to details and the avoidance of all conditions which could destroy,
or even lessen, confidence in the analyses when completed. The suggestions here given are the
outcome of much experience, and their adoption will tend to insure permanently work of a high
grade, while neglect of them will often lead to disappointment and loss of time.

ACCURACY AND ECONOMY OF TIME

The fundamental conception of quantitative analysis implies a necessity for all possible care
in guarding against loss of material or the introduction of foreign matter. The laboratory
desk, and all apparatus, should be scrupulously neat and clean at all times. A sponge should
always be ready at hand, and desk and filter-stands should be kept dry and in good order. Funnels
should never be allowed to drip upon the base of the stand. Glassware should always be wiped
with a clean, lintless towel just before use. All filters and solutions should be covered to
protect them from dust, just as far as is practicable, and every drop of solution or particle
of precipitate must be regarded as invaluable for the success of the analysis.

An economical use of laboratory hours is best secured by acquiring a thorough knowledge of
the character of the work to be done before undertaking it, and then by so arranging the work
that no time shall be wasted during the evaporation of liquids and like time-consuming operations.
To this end the student should read thoughtfully not only the !entire! procedure, but the explanatory
notes as well, before any step is taken in the analysis. The explanatory notes furnish, in
general, the reasons for particular steps or precautions, but they also occasionally contain
details of manipulation not incorporated, for various reasons, in the procedure. These notes
follow the procedures at frequent intervals, and the exact points to which they apply are indicated
by references. The student should realize that a !failure to study the notes will inevitably
lead to mistakes, loss of time, and an inadequate understanding of the subject!.

All analyses should be made in duplicate, and in general a close agreement of results should
be expected. It should, however, be remembered that a close concordance of results in "check
analyses" is not conclusive evidence of the accuracy of those results, although the probability
of their accuracy is, of course, considerably enhanced. The satisfaction in obtaining "check
results" in such analyses must never be allowed to interfere with the critical examination
of the procedure employed, nor must they ever be regarded as in any measure a substitute for
absolute truth and accuracy.

In this connection it must also be emphasized that only the operator himself can know the whole
history of an analysis, and only he can know whether his work is worthy of full confidence.
No work should be continued for a moment after such confidence is lost, but should be resolutely
discarded as soon as a cause for distrust is fully established. The student should, however,
determine to put forth his best efforts in each analysis; it is well not to be too ready to
condone failures and to "begin again," as much time is lost in these fruitless attempts. Nothing
less than !absolute integrity! is or can be demanded of a quantitative analyst, and any disregard
of this principle, however slight, is as fatal to success as lack of chemical knowledge or
inaptitude in manipulation can possibly be.

NOTEBOOKS

Notebooks should contain, beside the record of observations, descriptive notes. All records
of weights should be placed upon the right-hand page, while that on the left is reserved for
the notes, calculations of factors, or the amount of reagents required.

The neat and systematic arrangement of the records of analyses is of the first importance,
and is an evidence of careful work and an excellent credential. Of two notebooks in which the
results may be, in fact, of equal value as legal evidence, that one which is neatly arranged
will carry with it greater weight.

All records should be dated, and all observations should be recorded at once in the notebook.
The making of records upon loose paper is a practice to be deprecated, as is also that of copying
original entries into a second notebook. The student should accustom himself to orderly entries
at the time of observation. Several sample pages of systematic records are to be found in the
Appendix. These are based upon experience; but other arrangements, if clear and orderly, may
prove equally serviceable. The student is advised to follow the sample pages until he is in
a position to plan out a system of his own.

REAGENTS

The habit of carefully testing reagents, including distilled water, cannot be too early acquired
or too constantly practiced; for, in spite of all reasonable precautionary measures, inferior
chemicals will occasionally find their way into the stock room, or errors will be made in filling
reagent bottles. The student should remember that while there may be others who share the responsibility
for the purity of materials in the laboratory of an institution, the responsibility will later
be one which he must individually assume.

The stoppers of reagent bottles should never be laid upon the desk, unless upon a clean watch-glass
or paper. The neck and mouth of all such bottles should be kept scrupulously clean, and care
taken that no confusion of stoppers occurs.

WASH-BOTTLES

Wash-bottles for distilled water should be made from flasks of about 750 cc. capacity and be
provided with gracefully bent tubes, which should not be too long. The jet should be connected
with the tube entering the wash-bottle by a short piece of rubber tubing in such a way as to
be flexible, and should deliver a stream about one millimeter in diameter. The neck of the
flask may be wound with cord, or covered with wash-leather, for greater comfort when hot water
is used. It is well to provide several small wash-bottles for liquids other than distilled
water, which should invariably be clearly labeled.

TRANSFER OF LIQUIDS

Liquids should never be transferred from one vessel to another, nor to a filter, without the
aid of a stirring rod held firmly against the side or lip of the vessel. When the vessel is
provided with a lip it is not usually necessary to use other means to prevent the loss of liquid
by running down the side; whenever loss seems imminent a !very thin! layer of vaseline, applied
with the finger to the edge of the vessel, will prevent it. The stirring rod down which the
liquid runs should never be drawn upward in such a way as to allow the solution to collect
on the under side of the rim or lip of a vessel.

The number of transfers of liquids from one vessel to another during an analysis should be
as small as possible to avoid the risk of slight losses. Each vessel must, of course, be completely
washed to insure the transfer of all material; but it should be remembered that this can be
accomplished better by the use of successive small portions of wash-water (perhaps 5-10 cc.),
if each wash-water is allowed to drain away for a few seconds, than by the addition of large
amounts which unnecessarily increase the volume of the solutions, causing loss of time in subsequent
filtrations or evaporations.

All stirring rods employed in quantitative analyses should be rounded at the ends by holding
them in the flame of a burner until they begin to soften. If this is not done, the rods will
scratch the inner surface of beakers, causing them to crack on subsequent heating.

EVAPORATION OF LIQUIDS

The greatest care must be taken to prevent loss of solutions during processes of evaporation,
either from too violent ebullition, from evaporation to dryness and spattering, or from the
evolution of gas during the heating. In general, evaporation upon the steam bath is to be preferred
to other methods on account of the impossibility of loss by spattering. If the steam baths
are well protected from dust, solutions should be left without covers during evaporation; but
solutions which are boiled upon the hot plate, or from which gases are escaping, should invariably
be covered. In any case a watch-glass may be supported above the vessel by means of a glass
triangle, or other similar device, and the danger of loss of material or contamination by dust
thus be avoided. It is obvious that evaporation is promoted by the use of vessels which admit
of the exposure of a broad surface to the air.

Liquids which contain suspended matter (precipitates) should always be cautiously heated, since
the presence of the solid matter is frequently the occasion of violent "bumping," with consequent
risk to apparatus and analysis.

PART II

VOLUMETRIC ANALYSIS

The processes of volumetric analysis are, in general, simpler than those of gravimetric analysis
and accordingly serve best as an introduction to the practice of quantitative analysis. For
their execution there are required, first, an accurate balance with which to weigh the material
for analysis; second, graduated instruments in which to measure the volume of the solutions
employed; third, standard solutions, that is, solutions the value of which is accurately known;
and fourth, indicators, which will furnish accurate evidence of the point at which the desired
reaction is completed. The nature of the indicators employed will be explained in connection
with the different analyses.

The process whereby a !standard solution! is brought into reaction is called !titration!, and
the point at which the reaction is exactly completed is called the !end-point!. The !indicator!
should show the !end-point! of the !titration!. The volume of the standard solution used then
furnishes the measure of the substance to be determined as truly as if that substance had been
separated and weighed.

The processes of volumetric analysis are easily classified, according to their character, into:

I. NEUTRALIZATION METHODS; such, for example, as those of acidimetry and alkalimetry.

II. OXIDATION PROCESSES; as exemplified in the determination of ferrous iron by its oxidation
with potassium bichromate.

III. PRECIPITATION METHODS; of which the titration for silver with potassium thiocyanate solution
is an illustration.

From a somewhat different standpoint the methods in each case may be subdivided into (a) DIRECT
METHODS, in which the substance to be measured is directly determined by titration to an end-point
with a standard solution; and (b) INDIRECT METHODS, in which the substance itself is not measured,
but a quantity of reagent is added which is known to be an excess with respect to a specific
reaction, and the unused excess determined by titration. Examples of the latter class will
be pointed out as they occur in the procedures.

MEASURING INSTRUMENTS

THE ANALYTICAL BALANCE

For a complete discussion of the physical principles underlying the construction and use of
balances, and the various methods of weighing, the student is referred to larger manuals of
Quantitative Analysis, such as those of Fresenius, or Treadwell-Hall, and particularly to the
admirable discussion of this topic in Morse's !Exercises in Quantitative Chemistry!.

The statements and rules of procedure which follow are sufficient for the intelligent use of
an analytical balance in connection with processes prescribed in this introductory manual.
It is, however, imperative that the student should make himself familiar with these essential
features of the balance, and its use. He should fully realize that the analytical balance is
a delicate instrument which will render excellent service under careful treatment, but such
treatment is an essential condition if its accuracy is to be depended upon. He should also
understand that no set of rules, however complete, can do away with the necessity for a sense
of personal responsibility, since by carelessness he can render inaccurate not only his own
analyses, but those of all other students using the same balance.

Before making any weighings the student should seat himself before a balance and observe the
following details of construction:

1. The balance case is mounted on three brass legs, which should preferably rest in glass cups,
backed with rubber to prevent slipping. The front legs are adjustable as to height and are
used to level the balance case; the rear leg is of permanent length.

2. The front of the case may be raised to give access to the balance. In some makes doors are
provided also at the ends of the balance case.

3. The balance beam is mounted upon an upright in the center of the case on the top of which
is an inlaid agate plate. To the center of the beam there is attached a steel or agate knife-edge
on which the beam oscillates when it rests on the agate plate.

4. The balance beam, extending to the right and left, is graduated along its upper edge, usually
on both sides, and has at its extremities two agate or steel knife-edges from which are suspended
stirrups. Each of these stirrups has an agate plate which, when the balance is in action, rests
upon the corresponding knife-edge of the beam. The balance pans are suspended from the stirrups.

5. A pointer is attached to the center of the beam, and as the beam oscillates this pointer
moves in front of a scale near the base of the post.

6. At the base of the post, usually in the rear, is a spirit-level.

7. Within the upright is a mechanism, controlled by a knob at the front of the balance case,
which is so arranged as to raise the entire beam slightly above the level at which the knife-edges
are in contact with the agate plates. When the balance is not in use the beam must be supported
by this device since, otherwise, the constant jarring to which a balance is inevitably subjected,
will soon dull the knife-edges, and lessen the sensitiveness of the balance.

8. A small weight, or bob, is attached to the pointer (or sometimes to the beam) by which the
center of gravity of the beam and its attachments may be regulated. The center of gravity must
lie very slightly below the level of the agate plates to secure the desired sensitiveness of
the balance. This is provided for when the balance is set up and very rarely requires alteration.
The student should never attempt to change this adjustment.

9. Below the balance pans are two pan-arrests operated by a button from the front of the case.
These arrests exert a very slight upward pressure upon the pans and minimize the displacement
of the beam when objects or weights are being placed upon the pans.

10. A movable rod, operated from one end of the balance case, extends over the balance beam
and carries a small wire weight, called a rider. By means of this rod the rider can be placed
upon any desired division of the scale on the balance beam. Each numbered division on the beam
corresponds to one milligram, and the use of the rider obviates the placing of very small fractional
weights on the balance pan.

If a new rider is purchased, or an old one replaced, care must be taken that its weight corresponds
to the graduations on the beam of the balance on which it is to be used. The weight of the
rider in milligrams must be equal to the number of large divisions (5, 6, 10, or 12) between
the central knife-edge and the knife-edge at the end of the beam. It should be noted that on
some balances the last division bears no number. Each new rider should be tested against a
5 or 10-milligram weight.

In some of the most recent forms of the balance a chain device replaces the smaller weights
and the use of the rider as just described.

Before using a balance, it is always best to test its adjustment. This is absolutely necessary
if the balance is used by several workers; it is always a wise precaution under any conditions.
For this purpose, brush off the balance pans with a soft camel's hair brush. Then note (1)
whether the balance is level; (2) that the mechanism for raising and lowering the beams works
smoothly; (3) that the pan-arrests touch the pans when the beam is lowered; and (4) that the
needle swings equal distances on either side of the zero-point when set in motion without any
load on the pans. If the latter condition is not fulfilled, the balance should be adjusted
by means of the adjusting screw at the end of the beam unless the variation is not more than
one division on the scale; it is often better to make a proper allowance for this small zero
error than to disturb the balance by an attempt at correction. Unless a student thoroughly
understands the construction of a balance he should never attempt to make adjustments, but
should apply to the instructor in charge.

The object to be weighed should be placed on the left-hand balance pan and the weights upon
the right-hand pan. Every substance which could attack the metal of the balance pan should
be weighed upon a watch-glass, and all objects must be dry and cold. A warm body gives rise
to air currents which vitiate the accuracy of the weighing.

The weights should be applied in the order in which they occur in the weight-box (not at haphazard),
beginning with the largest weight which is apparently required. After a weight has been placed
upon the pan the beam should be lowered upon its knife-edges, and, if necessary, the pan-arrests
depressed. The movement of the pointer will then indicate whether the weight applied is too
great or too small. When the weight has been ascertained, by the successive addition of small
weights, to the nearest 5 or 10 milligrams, the weighing is completed by the use of the rider.
The correct weight is that which causes the pointer to swing an equal number of divisions to
the right and left of the zero-point, when the pointer traverses not less than five divisions
on either side.

The balance case should always be closed during the final weighing, while the rider is being
used, to protect the pans from the effect of air currents.

Before the final determination of an exact weight the beam should always be lifted from the
knife-edges and again lowered into place, as it frequently happens that the scale pans are,
in spite of the pan-arrests, slightly twisted by the impact of the weights, the beam being
thereby virtually lengthened or shortened. Lifting the beam restores the proper alignment.

The beam should never be set in motion by lowering it forcibly upon the knife-edges, nor by
touching the pans, but rather by lifting the rider (unless the balance be provided with some
of the newer devices for the purpose), and the swing should be arrested only when the needle
approaches zero on the scale, otherwise the knife-edges become dull. For the same reason the
beam should never be left upon its knife-edges, nor should weights be removed from or placed
on the pans without supporting the beam, except in the case of the small fractional weights.

When the process of weighing has been completed, the weight should be recorded in the notebook
by first noting the vacant spaces in the weight-box, and then checking the weight by again
noting the weights as they are removed from the pan. This practice will often detect and avoid
errors. It is obvious that the weights should always be returned to their proper places in
the box, and be handled only with pincers.

It should be borne in mind that if the mechanism of a balance is deranged or if any substance
is spilled upon the pans or in the balance case, the damage should be reported at once. In
many instances serious harm can be averted by prompt action when delay might ruin the balance.

Samples for analysis are commonly weighed in small tubes with cork stoppers. Since the stoppers
are likely to change in weight from the varying amounts of moisture absorbed from the atmosphere,
it is necessary to confirm the recorded weight of a tube which has been unused for some time
before weighing out a new portion of substance from it.

WEIGHTS

The sets of weights commonly used in analytical chemistry range from 20 grams to 5 milligrams.
The weights from 20 grams to 1 gram are usually of brass, lacquered or gold plated. The fractional
weights are of German silver, gold, platinum or aluminium. The rider is of platinum or aluminium
wire.

The sets of weights purchased from reputable dealers are usually sufficiently accurate for
analytical work. It is not necessary that such a set should be strictly exact in comparison
with the absolute standard of weight, provided they are relatively correct among themselves,
and provided the same set of weights is used in all weighings made during a given analysis.
The analyst should assure himself that the weights in a set previously unfamiliar to him are
relatively correct by a few simple tests. For example, he should make sure that in his set
two weights of the same denomination (i.e., two 10-gram weights, or the two 100-milligram weights)
are actually equal and interchangeable, or that the 500-milligram weight is equal to the sum
of the 200, 100, 100, 50, 20, 20 and 10-milligram weights combined, and so on. If discrepancies
of more than a few tenths of a milligram (depending upon the total weight involved) are found,
the weights should be returned for correction. The rider should also be compared with a 5 or
10-milligram weight.

In an instructional laboratory appreciable errors should be reported to the instructor in charge
for his consideration.

When the highest accuracy is desired, the weights may be calibrated and corrections applied.
A calibration procedure is described in a paper by T.W. Richards, !J. Am. Chem. Soc.!, 22,
144, and in many large text-books.

Weights are inevitably subject to corrosion if not properly protected at all times, and are
liable to damage unless handled with great care. It is obvious that anything which alters the
weight of a single piece in an analytical set will introduce an error in every weighing made
in which that piece is used. This source of error is often extremely obscure and difficult
to detect. The only safeguard against such errors is to be found in scrupulous care in handling
and protection on the part of the analyst, and an equal insistence that if several analysts
use the same set of weights, each shall realize his responsibility for the work of others as
well as his own.

BURETTES

A burette is made from a glass tube which is as uniformly cylindrical as possible, and of such
a bore that the divisions which are etched upon its surface shall correspond closely to actual
contents.

The tube is contracted at one extremity, and terminates in either a glass stopcock and delivery-tube,
or in such a manner that a piece of rubber tubing may be firmly attached, connecting a delivery-tube
of glass. The rubber tubing is closed by means of a glass bead. Burettes of the latter type
will be referred to as "plain burettes."

The graduations are usually numbered in cubic centimeters, and the latter are subdivided into
tenths.

One burette of each type is desirable for the analytical procedures which follow.

PREPARATION OF A BURETTE FOR USE

The inner surface of a burette must be thoroughly cleaned in order that the liquid as drawn
out may drain away completely, without leaving drops upon the sides. This is best accomplished
by treating the inside of the burette with a warm solution of chromic acid in concentrated
sulphuric acid, applied as follows: If the burette is of the "plain" type, first remove the
rubber tip and force the lower end of the burette into a medium-sized cork stopper. Nearly
fill the burette with the chromic acid solution, close the upper end with a cork stopper and
tip the burette backward and forward in such a way as to bring the solution into contact with
the entire inner surface. Remove the stopper and pour the solution into a stock bottle to be
kept for further use, and rinse out the burette with water several times. Unless the water
then runs freely from the burette without leaving drops adhering to the sides, the process
must be repeated (Note 1).

If the burette has a glass stopcock, this should be removed after the cleaning and wiped, and
also the inside of the ground joint. The surface of the stopcock should then be smeared with
a thin coating of vaseline and replaced. It should be attached to the burette by means of a
wire, or elastic band, to lessen the danger of breakage.

Fill the burettes with distilled water, and allow the water to run out through the stopcock
or rubber tip until convinced that no air bubbles are inclosed (Note 2). Fill the burette to
a point above the zero-point and draw off the water until the meniscus is just below that mark.
It is then ready for calibration.

[Note 1: The inner surface of the burette must be absolutely clean if the liquid is to run
off freely. Chromic acid in sulphuric acid is usually found to be the best cleansing agent,
but the mixture must be warm and concentrated. The solution can be prepared by pouring over
a few crystals of potassium bichromate a little water and then adding concentrated sulphuric acid.]

[Note 2: It is always necessary to insure the absence of air bubbles in the tips or stopcocks.
The treatment described above will usually accomplish this, but, in the case of plain burettes
it is sometimes better to allow a little of the liquid to flow out of the tip while it is bent
upwards. Any air which may be entrapped then rises with the liquid and escapes.

If air bubbles escape during subsequent calibration or titration, an error is introduced which
vitiates the results.]

READING OF A BURETTE

