But Pliny, notwithstanding his great attainments, was often a retailer of stale gossip, and
in like case was Aurelius Victor, another writer who heaped much odium on her name. Again,
there is a great hiatus in the Annals of Tacitus, a true historian, at the period covering
the earlier days of the Empress; while Suetonius, bitter as he may be, is little more than
an anecdotist. Juvenal, another of her detractors, is a prejudiced witness, for he started
out to satirize female vice, and naturally aimed at high places. Dio also tells of Messalina's
misdeeds, but his work is under the same limitations as that of Suetonius. Furthermore, none
but Pliny mentions the excess under consideration.

However, "where there is much smoke there must be a little fire," and based upon the superimposed
testimony of the writers of the period, there appears little doubt but that Messalina was a
nymphomaniac, that she prostituted herself in the public stews, naked, and with gilded nipples,
and that she did actually marry her chief adulterer, Silius, while Claudius was absent at Ostia,
and that the wedding was consummated in the presence of a concourse of witnesses. This was
"the straw that broke the camel's back." Claudius hastened back to Rome, Silius was dispatched,
and Messalina, lacking the will-power to destroy herself, was killed when an officer ran a
sword through her abdomen, just as it appeared that Claudius was about to relent.

"THEN SPAKE YE DAMNED WINDMILL, SIR WALTER"

Raleigh is thoroughly in character here; this observation is quite in keeping with the general
veracity of his account of his travels in Guiana, one of the most mendacious accounts of adventure
ever told. Naturally, the scholarly researches of Westermarck have failed to discover this
people; perhaps Lady Helen might best be protected among the Jibaros of Ecuador, where the
men marry when approaching forty. 

No subsequent sources can have quite the due interest, none originally the sentimental value, which
attaches to these published tearjerker, springing direct from the brains
and hub of the nation's founders.

Sacra recognosces annalibus eruta priscis.

J. FRANKLIN Markham.

CARNEGIE INSTITUTION, WASHINGTON, D. C. NOTE intellectual acknowledgments
and thanks are late to the negotiator of the special Arthur Middleton
JAMESON, who have quite printed the use of his translations of the
Vinland Finding, kindly good in his sagas of Wineland the early, printed
in London by the Clarendon Press in 1890; to the President and Journal
of the Hakluyt Society, for license to use Sir Clements Reeves's translation
of the Council of Columbus's first voyage, permitted in Vol.



Ben Jonson in his Conversations with William Drummond of Hawthornden says,

"Queen Elizabeth never saw herself after she became old in a true glass; they painted her,
and sometymes would vermillion her nose. She had allwayes about Christmass evens set dice that
threw sixes or five, and she knew not they were other, to make her win and esteame herself
fortunate. That she had a membrana on her, which made her uncapable of man, though for her
delight she tried many. At the coming over of Monsieur, there was a French Chirurgion who took
in hand to cut it, yett fear stayed her, and his death."

It was a subject which again intrigued Clemens when he was abroad with W. H. Fisher, whom Mark
employed to "nose up" everything pertaining to Queen Elizabeth's manly character.

"'BOCCACCIO HATH A STORY"

The author does not pay any great compliment to Raleigh's memory here. There is no such tale
in all Boccaccio. The nearest related incident forms the subject matter of Dineo's novel (the
fourth) of the First day of the Decameron.

OLD SR. NICHOLAS THROGMORTON

The incident referred to appears to be Sir Nicholas Throgmorton's trial for complicity in the
attempt to make Lady Jane Grey Queen of England, a charge of which he was acquitted. This so
angered Queen Mary that she imprisoned him in the Tower, and fined the jurors from one to two
thousand pounds each. Her action terrified succeeding juries, so that Sir Nicholas's brother
was condemned on no stronger evidence than that which had failed to prevail before. While Sir
Nicholas's defense may have been brilliant, it must be admitted that the evidence was weak.
He was later released from the Tower, and under Elizabeth was one of a group of commissioners
sent by that princess into Scotland, to foment trouble with Mary, Queen of Scots. When the
attempt became known, Elizabeth repudiated the acts of her agents, but Sir Nicholas, having
anticipated this possibility, had sufficient foresight to secure endorsement of his plan by
the Council, and so outwitted Elizabeth, who was playing a two-faced role, and Cecil, one of
the greatest statesmen who ever held the post of principal minister. Perhaps it was this incident
to which the company referred, which might in part explain Elizabeth's rejoinder. However,
he had been restored to confidence ere this, and had served as ambassador to France.

"TO SAVE HIS DOTER'S MAIDENHEDDE"

Elizabeth Throckmorton (or Throgmorton), daughter of Sir Nicholas, was one of Elizabeth's maids
of honor. When it was learned that she had been debauched by Raleigh, Sir Walter was recalled
from his command at sea by the Queen, and compelled to marry the girl. This was not "in that
olde daie," as the text has it, for it happened only eight years before the date of this purported
"conversation," when Elizabeth was sixty years old.

PARTIAL BIBLIOGRAPHY

The various printings of 1601 reveal how Mark Twain's 'Fireside Conversation' has become a
part of the American printer's lore. But more important, its many printings indicate that it
has become a popular bit of American folklore, particularly for men and women who have a feeling
for Mark Twain. Apparently it appeals to the typographer, who devotes to it his worthy art,
as well as to the job printer, who may pull a crudely printed proof. The gay procession of
curious printings of 1601 is unique in the history of American printing.

Indeed, the story of the various printings of 1601 is almost legendary. In the days of the
"jour." printer, so I am told, well-thumbed copies were carried from print shop to print shop.
For more than a quarter century now it has been one of the chief sources of enjoyment for printers'
devils; and many a young rascal has learned about life from this Fireside Conversation. It
has been printed all over the country, and if report is to be believed, in foreign countries
as well. Because of the many surreptitious and anonymous printings it is exceedingly difficult,
if not impossible, to compile a complete bibliography. Many printings lack the name of the
publisher, the printer, the place or date of printing. In many instances some of the data,
through the patient questioning of fellow collectors, has been obtained and supplied.

1. [Date, 1601.] Conversation, as it was by the Social Fireside, in the Time of the Tudors.

DESCRIPTION: Pamphlet, pp. [ 1 ]-8, without wrappers or cover, measuring 7x8 inches. The title
is Set in caps. and small caps.

The excessively rare first printing, printed in Cleveland, 1880, at the instance of Alexander
Gunn, friend of John Hay. Only four copies are believed to have been printed, of which, it
is said now, the only known copy is located in the Willard S. Morse collection.

2. About 8 x 10 inches, printed on handmade linen paper soaked in weak coffee, wrappers. The
title is set in caps and small caps.

COLOPHON: at the foot of p. xi: Done Att Ye Academie Preffe; M DCCC LXXX II.

The privately printed West Point edition, the first printing of the text authorized by Mark
Twain, of which but fifty copies were printed. The story of this printing is fully told in
the Introduction.

3. Conversation As It Was By The Social Fire-side In The Time Of The Tudors from Ye Diary of
Ye Cupbearer to her Maisty Queen Elizabeth. [design] Imprinted by Ye Puritan Press At Ye Sign
of Ye Jolly Virgin 1601.

DESCRIPTION: 2 blank leaves; p. [i] blank, p. [ii] fronds., p. [iii] title [as above], p. [iv]
"Mem.", pp. 1-[25] text, I blank leaf. 4 3/4 by 6 1/4 inches, printed in a modern version of
the Caxton black letter type, on M.B.M. French handmade paper. The frontispiece, a woodcut
by A. E. Curtis, is a portrait of the cup-bearer. Bound in buff-grey boards, buckram back.
Cover title reads, in pale red ink, Caxton type, Conversation As It Was By The Social Fire-side
In The Time Of The Tudors. [The Byway Press, Cincinnati, Ohio, 1901, 120 copies.]

Probably the first published edition.

Later, in 1916, a facsimile edition of this printing was published in Chicago from plates.