Adjust the loom for the size required. The plaid effect in the holder illustrated on page 92
is obtained by stringing a close warp with green and white carpet wool, alternating two of
white with four of green. In weaving, use two woof threads of white and four of green to make
the square correct. The kindergarten designs make pretty holders. If you have woven a holder,
it will be finished when it is removed from the loom and the warp strings have been fastened.
If you wish your holder to be very thick, weave two of these pieces, lay a square of felt or
flannel between and sew or crochet the edges together. If the work is to be a mat, knot a pretty
fringe all around it. Many of these squares can be joined to make sofa pillows, afghans, slumber
robes, and other dainty articles. With a continuous warp, one can weave long strips for the
same articles. If a small rug for Miss Dolly's bedroom is desired, string the warp so that
the two ends will have a fringe. Stair and hall carpets for the doll house can be woven in
these pretty designs by adjusting the loom for a narrow strip, and, if necessary, a continuous
warp.

Chapter Nine

HAMMOCKS

[Sidenote: Method of adjustment]

[Sidenote: Use of stripes for various colors]

[Sidenote: Lengthwise stripes]

To weave a hammock, one must first adjust the loom to its full size. Tie two rings together
and fasten them at the back of the loom, to head, foot, and sides, as in the illustration.
One must then decide how close the warp is to be strung. Measure the string, which should be
continuous, allowing enough to go to the rings at the back and make a buttonhole stitch each
time. Then wind on a long thin stick or dress steel, in such a way that it will pass easily
through the rings. In stringing the hammock in the illustration, a penholder was used. The
rings are tied, with white cord, to the four sides of the loom. By doing this, all tangling
of the warp string is avoided, and it is far preferable to splicing. Tie the first warp string
to the top ring. Draw it tightly through the first groove, over the face of the loom to the
opposite groove, then to the back of the loom through the bottom ring. Make a buttonhole stitch
and return in the same manner over the face of the loom, around to the top ring, where you
make a buttonhole stitch and return, until the whole warp is strung. Care should be taken to
make it firm and tight. Hold the string and ring firmly in the left hand while making the buttonhole
stitch with the right. Cut the woof cords long enough to allow a fringe on each side of the
hammock. Weave each cord separately, tying in pairs around the rods. Stripes of one or more
colors can be woven at each end or at intervals through the hammock. By weaving two colors
alternately, the stripes will be lengthwise instead of crosswise. Knot the fringe at each side.
To fasten the top and bottom woof cords so that they will not pull out of place, thread a tape
needle with cord and tie each warp string close to the woof. Another way to secure the top
and bottom woof cords is to weave two cords at one time, twisting one over the other between
the warp strings. The bottom one should be woven before the hammock is commenced. The top one
can be woven before the hammock is finished, and pushed up close to the head piece. Then fill
up the space. I have dream, Jai. "

He fell back into deep sleep, and Almudena, which had required the
club with intentions using it as an infallible remedy for drunkenness,
took pity and sighed hard, muttering these or similar words: "Paste
you another day." This forms a heading
for the fringe. Take up two cords of the fringe at a time. If desired, the strings which extend
from the rings to the hammock may be woven for the space of an inch or so close to the rings
instead of making a buttonhole stitch. Make a stretcher for the head by covering a piece of
rattan with buttonhole stitch. Fasten this to the hammock. A head-rest can also be woven and
adjusted. To remove the hammock from the loom, cut the two rings apart, and then lift the warp
strings from the grooves. A very pretty hammock can be made by stringing the warp of different
colors, in order to make lengthwise stripes. Weave a neutral color through them. In this case,
have a close warp. Pretty hammocks can be made by knotting instead of weaving.

[Sidenote: To string warp for hammock in order to have the sides shorter than the center]

Cut two semi-circular pieces from light wood or pasteboard. These should suit the width of
the hammock to be made. If this is the width of the loom, then 9-1/2 inches long and two inches
at the widest part. Cut the curved edge in notches to correspond with the number taken in the
head piece. These pieces will be firmer and more satisfactory if made of wood and finished
at the lower edges like the metal head piece. This can be easily done by glueing them to a
narrow piece of wood so that they will stand. If furnished with perforations, they can be laced
to the head and foot pieces or the rods can be run through them. By stringing the warp in this
way, the sides of the hammock will be shorter than the center, and there will be no danger
of Miss Dolly falling out.

The warp can be strung more quickly and easily if hammock hooks similar to those in the two
illustrations below are used. Measure the right length--22 warp strings 31 inches long for
the metal loom, or 29 the same length for the wooden loom--and wind as before.

[Sidenote: Hammock hooks]

[Sidenote: Weaving]

In using hammock hook No. 1, knot half the number of warp strings in the left-hand ring and
half in the right-hand ring. If hook No. 2 be used, unpin the part at the right, knot the warp
strings along the straight edge at the bottom, and then pin the right-hand part again. Weaving
each cord separately across the loom makes a heavy fringe at the sides. If a lighter fringe
be desired, cut the woof cords twice the width of the loom plus twice the length of the fringe.
Weave across the loom, leaving enough for the fringe at the side, then around the rod and back
again, drawing the cord through to the same length as the part left at first. Weave in the
same way with the second color, having the loop on the same rod and the fringe at the same
side as the other. Weave the next two cords with loops on the opposite rod and fringe on the
opposite side. Continue in this way until the hammock is finished. Make a heading at the sides
as described, only carry the two cords through the loops, crossing them between on top of the
rods. The warp strings can be passed through the rings without buttonholing. A firm pretty
finish can be made at the sides by cutting two cords--one of each color two yards long and
buttonholing around the rods on top of the woof cords which extend at each side. Fasten these
long cords at the bottom of the loom. After two pairs of woof cords have been tied, buttonhole
the edge over them and around the rods and continue this until the hammock is finished.

Chapter Ten

FACE AND DISH CLOTHS AND BATH RUGS

[Sidenote: Materials]

