THE GOLDEN BOWL, VOLUME II

BOOK SECOND: THE PRINCESS

PART FOURTH

                             XXV

It was not till many days had passed that the Princess began to accept the idea of having done,
a little, something she was not always doing, or indeed that of having listened to any inward
voice that spoke in a new tone. Yet these instinctive postponements of reflection were the
fruit, positively, of recognitions and perceptions already active; of the sense, above all,
that she had made, at a particular hour, made by the mere touch of her hand, a difference in
the situation so long present to her as practically unattackable. This situation had been occupying,
for months and months, the very centre of the garden of her life, but it had reared itself
there like some strange, tall tower of ivory, or perhaps rather some wonderful, beautiful,
but outlandish pagoda, a structure plated with hard, bright porcelain, coloured and figured
and adorned, at the overhanging eaves, with silver bells that tinkled, ever so charmingly,
when stirred by chance airs. She had walked round and round it--that was what she felt; she
had carried on her existence in the space left her for circulation, a space that sometimes
seemed ample and sometimes narrow: looking up, all the while, at the fair structure that spread
itself so amply and rose so high, but never quite making out, as yet, where she might have
entered had she wished. She had not wished till now--such was the odd case; and what was doubtless
equally odd, besides, was that, though her raised eyes seemed to distinguish places that must
serve, from within, and especially far aloft, as apertures and outlooks, no door appeared to
give access from her convenient garden level. The great decorated surface had remained consistently
impenetrable and inscrutable. At present, however, to her considering mind, it was as if she
had ceased merely to circle and to scan the elevation, ceased so vaguely, so quite helplessly
to stare and wonder: she had caught herself distinctly in the act of pausing, then in that
of lingering, and finally in that of stepping unprecedentedly near. The thing might have been,
by the distance at which it kept her, a Mahometan mosque, with which no base heretic could
take a liberty; there so hung about it the vision of one's putting off one's shoes to enter,
and even, verily, of one's paying with one's life if found there as an interloper. She had
not, certainly, arrived at the conception of paying with her life for anything she might do;
but it was nevertheless quite as if she had sounded with a tap or two one of the rare porcelain
plates. She had knocked, in short--though she could scarce have said whether for admission
or for what; she had applied her hand to a cool smooth spot and had waited to see what would
happen. Something had happened; it was as if a sound, at her touch, after a little, had come
back to her from within; a sound sufficiently suggesting that her approach had been noted.

If this image, however, may represent our young woman's consciousness of a recent change in
her life--a change now but a few days old--it must at the same time be observed that she both
sought and found in renewed circulation, as I have called it, a measure of relief from the
idea of having perhaps to answer for what she had done. The pagoda in her blooming garden figured
the arrangement--how otherwise was it to be named?--by which, so strikingly, she had been able
to marry without breaking, as she liked to put it, with the past. She had surrendered herself
to her husband without the shadow of a reserve or a condition, and yet she had not, all the
while, given up her father--the least little inch. She had compassed the high city of seeing
the two men beautifully take to each other, and nothing in her marriage had marked it as more
happy than this fact of its having practically given the elder, the lonelier, a new friend.
What had moreover all the while enriched the whole aspect of success was that the latter's
marriage had been no more meassurably paid for than her own. His having taken the same great
step in the same free way had not in the least involved the relegation of his daughter. That
it was remarkable they should have been able at once so to separate and so to keep together
had never for a moment, from however far back, been equivocal to her; that it was remarkable
had in fact quite counted, at first and always, and for each of them equally, as part of their
inspiration and their support. There were plenty of singular things they were NOT enamoured
of--flights of brilliancy, of audacity, of originality, that, speaking at least for the dear
man and herself, were not at all in their line; but they liked to think they had given their
life this unusual extension and this liberal form, which many families, many couples, and still
more many pairs of couples, would not have found workable. That last truth had been distinctly
brought home to them by the bright testimony, the quite explicit envy, of most of their friends,
who had remarked to them again and again that they must, on all the showing, to keep on such
terms, be people of the highest amiability--equally including in the praise, of course, Amerigo
and Charlotte. It had given them pleasure--as how should it not?--to find themselves shed such
a glamour; it had certainly, that is, given pleasure to her father and herself, both of them
distinguishably of a nature so slow to presume that they would scarce have been sure of their
triumph without this pretty reflection of it. So it was that their felicity had fructified;
so it was that the ivory tower, visible and admirable doubtless, from any point of the social
field, had risen stage by stage. Maggie's actual reluctance to ask herself with proportionate
sharpness why she had ceased to take comfort in the sight of it represented accordingly a lapse
from that ideal consistency on which her moral comfort almost at any time depended. To remain
consistent she had always been capable of cutting down more or less her prior term.

Moving for the first time in her life as in the darkening shadow of a false position, she reflected
that she should either not have ceased to be right--that is, to be confident--or have recognised
that she was wrong; though she tried to deal with herself, for a space, only as a silken-coated
spaniel who has scrambled out of a pond and who rattles the water from his ears. Her shake
of her head, again and again, as she went, was much of that order, and she had the resource,
to which, save for the rude equivalent of his generalising bark, the spaniel would have been
a stranger, of humming to herself hard as a sign that nothing had happened to her. She had
not, so to speak, fallen in; she had had no accident and had not got wet; this at any rate
was her pretension until after she began a little to wonder if she mightn't, with or without
exposure, have taken cold. She could at all events remember no time at which she had felt so
excited, and certainly none--which was another special point--that so brought with it as well
the necessity for concealing excitement. This birth of a new eagerness became a high pastime,
in her view, precisely by reason of the ingenuity required for keeping the thing born out of
sight. The ingenuity was thus a private and absorbing exercise, in the light of which, might
I so far multiply my metaphors, I should compare her to the frightened but clinging young mother
of an unlawful child. The idea that had possession of her would be, by our new analogy, the
proof of her misadventure, but likewise, all the while, only another sign of a relation that
was more to her than anything on earth. She had lived long enough to make out for herself that
any deep-seated passion has its pangs as well as its joys, and that we are made by its aches
and its anxieties most richly conscious of it. She had never doubted of the force of the feeling
that bound her to her husband; but to become aware, almost suddenly, that it had begun to vibrate
with a violence that had some of the effect of a strain would, rightly looked at, after all
but show that she was, like thousands of women, every day, acting up to the full privilege
of passion. Why in the world shouldn't she, with every right--if, on consideration, she saw
no good reason against it? The best reason against it would have been the possibility of some
consequence disagreeable or inconvenient to others-- especially to such others as had never
incommoded her by the egotism of THEIR passions; but if once that danger were duly guarded
against the fulness of one's measure amounted to no more than the equal use of one's faculties
or the proper playing of one's part. It had come to the Princess, obscurely at first, but little
by little more conceivably, that her faculties had not for a good while been concomitantly
used; the case resembled in a manner that of her once-loved dancing, a matter of remembered
steps that had grown vague from her ceasing to go to balls. She would go to balls again--that
seemed, freely, even crudely, stated, the remedy; she would take out of the deep receptacles
in which she had laid them away the various ornaments congruous with the greater occasions,
and of which her store, she liked to think, was none of the smallest. She would have been easily
to be figured for us at this occupation; dipping, at off moments and quiet hours, in snatched
visits and by draughty candle-light, into her rich collections and seeing her jewels again
a little shyly, but all unmistakably, glow. That in fact may pass as the very picture of her
semi-smothered agitation, of the diversion she to some extent successfully found in referring
her crisis, so far as was possible, to the mere working of her own needs.

It must be added, however, that she would have been at a loss to determine--and certainly at
first--to which order, that of self-control or that of large expression, the step she had taken
the afternoon of her husband's return from Matcham with his companion properly belonged. For
it had been a step, distinctly, on Maggie's part, her deciding to do something, just then and
there, which would strike Amerigo as unusual, and this even though her departure from custom
had merely consisted in her so arranging that he wouldn't find her, as he would definitely
expect to do, in Eaton Square. He would have, strangely enough, as might seem to him, to come
back home for it, and there get the impression of her rather pointedly, or at least all impatiently
and independently, awaiting him. These were small variations and mild manoeuvres, but they
went accompanied on Maggie's part, as we have mentioned, with an infinite sense of intention.
Her watching by his fireside for her husband's return from an absence might superficially have
presented itself as the most natural act in the world, and the only one, into the bargain,
on which he would positively have reckoned. It fell by this circumstance into the order of
plain matters, and yet the very aspect by which it was, in the event, handed over to her brooding
fancy was the fact that she had done with it all she had designed. She had put her thought
to the proof, and the proof had shown its edge; this was what was before her, that she was
no longer playing with blunt and idle tools, with weapons that didn't cut. There passed across
her vision ten times a day the gleam of a bare blade, and at this it was that she most shut
her eyes, most knew the impulse to cheat herself with motion and sound. She had merely driven,
on a certain Wednesday, to Portland Place, instead of remaining in Eaton Square, and she privately
repeated it again and again-- there had appeared beforehand no reason why she should have seen
the mantle of history flung, by a single sharp sweep, over so commonplace a deed. That, all
the same, was what had happened; it had been bitten into her mind, all in an hour, that nothing
she had ever done would hereafter, in some way yet to be determined, so count for her--perhaps
not even what she had done in accepting, in their old golden Rome, Amerigo's proposal of marriage.
And yet, by her little crouching posture there, that of a timid tigress, she had meant nothing
recklessly ultimate, nothing clumsily fundamental; so that she called it names, the invidious,
the grotesque attitude, holding it up to her own ridicule, reducing so far as she could the
portee of what had followed it. She had but wanted to get nearer--nearer to something indeed
that she couldn't, that she wouldn't, even to herself, describe; and the degree of this achieved
nearness was what had been in advance incalculable. Her actual multiplication of distractions
and suppressions, whatever it did for her, failed to prevent her living over again any chosen
minute--for she could choose them, she could fix them--of the freshness of relation produced
by her having administered to her husband the first surprise to which she had ever treated
him. It had been a poor thing, but it had been all her own, and the whole passage was backwardly
there, a great picture hung on the wall of her daily life, for her to make what she would of.

It fell, for retrospect, into a succession of moments that were WATCHABLE still; almost in
the manner of the different things done during a scene on the stage, some scene so acted as
to have left a great impression on the tenant of one of the stalls. Several of these moments
stood out beyond the others, and those she could feel again most, count again like the firm
pearls on a string, had belonged more particularly to the lapse of time before dinner--dinner
which had been so late, quite at nine o'clock, that evening, thanks to the final lateness of
Amerigo's own advent. These were parts of the experience--though in fact there had been a good
many of them--between which her impression could continue sharply to discriminate. Before the
subsequent passages, much later on, it was to be said, the flame of memory turned to an equalising
glow, that of a lamp in some side-chapel in which incense was thick. The great moment, at any
rate, for conscious repossession, was doubtless the first: the strange little timed silence
which she had fully gauged, on the spot, as altogether beyond her own intention, but which--for
just how long? should she ever really know for just how long?--she could do nothing to break.
She was in the smaller drawing-room, in which she always "sat," and she had, by calculation,
dressed for dinner on finally coming in. It was a wonder how many things she had calculated
in respect to this small incident--a matter for the importance of which she had so quite indefinite
a measure. He would be late--he would be very late; that was the one certainty that seemed
to look her in the face. There was still also the possibility that if he drove with Charlotte
straight to Eaton Square he might think it best to remain there even on learning she had come
away. She had left no message for him on any such chance; this was another of her small shades
of decision, though the effect of it might be to keep him still longer absent. He might suppose
she would already have dined; he might stay, with all he would have to tell, just on purpose
to be nice to her father. She had known him to stretch the point, to these beautiful ends,
far beyond that; he had more than once stretched it to the sacrifice of the opportunity of
dressing.

If she herself had now avoided any such sacrifice, and had made herself, during the time at
her disposal, quite inordinately fresh and quite positively smart, this had probably added,
while she waited and waited, to that very tension of spirit in which she was afterwards to
find the image of her having crouched. She did her best, quite intensely, by herself, to banish
any such appearance; she couldn't help it if she couldn't read her pale novel--ah, that, par
exemple, was beyond her! but she could at least sit by the lamp with the book, sit there with
her newest frock, worn for the first time, sticking out, all round her, quite stiff and grand;
even perhaps a little too stiff and too grand for a familiar and domestic frock, yet marked
none the less, this time, she ventured to hope, by incontestable intrinsic merit. She had glanced
repeatedly at the clock, but she had refused herself the weak indulgence of walking up and
down, though the act of doing so, she knew, would make her feel, on the polished floor, with
the rustle and the "hang," still more beautifully bedecked. The difficulty was that it would
also make her feel herself still more sharply in a state; which was exactly what she proposed
not to do. The only drops of her anxiety had been when her thought strayed complacently, with
her eyes, to the front of her gown, which was in a manner a refuge, a beguilement, especially
when she was able to fix it long enough to wonder if it would at last really satisfy Charlotte.
She had ever been, in respect to her clothes, rather timorous and uncertain; for the last year,
above all, she had lived in the light of Charlotte's possible and rather inscrutable judgment
of them. Charlotte's own were simply the most charming and interesting that any woman had ever
put on; there was a kind of poetic justice in her being at last able, in this particular, thanks
to means, thanks quite to omnipotence, freely to exercise her genius. But Maggie would have
described herself as, in these connections, constantly and intimately "torn"; conscious on
one side of the impossibility of copying her companion and conscious on the other of the impossibility
of sounding her, independently, to the bottom. Yes, it was one of the things she should go
down to her grave without having known--how Charlotte, after all had been said, really thought
her stepdaughter looked under any supposedly ingenious personal experiment. She had always
been lovely about the stepdaughter's material braveries--had done, for her, the very best with
them; but there had ever fitfully danced at the back of Maggie's head the suspicion that these
expressions were mercies, not judgments, embodying no absolute, but only a relative, frankness.
Hadn't Charlotte, with so perfect a critical vision, if the truth were known, given her up
as hopeless--hopeless by a serious standard, and thereby invented for her a different and inferior
one, in which, as the only thing to be done, she patiently and soothingly abetted her? Hadn't
she, in other words, assented in secret despair, perhaps even in secret irritation, to her
being ridiculous?--so that the best now possible was to wonder, once in a great while, whether
one mightn't give her the surprise of something a little less out of the true note than usual.
Something of this kind was the question that Maggie, while the absentees still delayed, asked
of the appearance she was endeavouring to present; but with the result, repeatedly again, that
it only went and lost itself in the thick air that had begun more and more to hang, for our
young woman, over her accumulations of the unanswered. They were THERE, these accumulations;
they were like a roomful of confused objects, never as yet "sorted," which for some time now
she had been passing and re-passing, along the corridor of her life. She passed it when she
could without opening the door; then, on occasion, she turned the key to throw in a fresh contribution.
So it was that she had been getting things out of the way. They rejoined the rest of the confusion;
it was as if they found their place, by some instinct of affinity, in the heap. They knew,
in short, where to go; and when she, at present, by a mental act, once more pushed the door
open, she had practically a sense of method and experience. What she should never know about
Charlotte's thought--she tossed THAT in. It would find itself in company, and she might at
last have been standing there long enough to see it fall into its corner. The sight moreover
would doubtless have made her stare, had her attention been more free-- the sight of the mass
of vain things, congruous, incongruous, that awaited every addition. It made her in fact, with
a vague gasp, turn away, and what had further determined this was the final sharp extinction
of the inward scene by the outward. The quite different door had opened and her husband was there.

It had been as strange as she could consent, afterwards, to think it; it had been, essentially,
what had made the abrupt bend in her life: he had come back, had followed her from the other
house, VISIBLY uncertain--this was written in the face he for the first minute showed her.
It had been written only for those seconds, and it had appeared to go, quickly, after they
began to talk; but while it lasted it had been written large, and, though she didn't quite
know what she had expected of him, she felt she hadn't expected the least shade of embarrassment.
What had made the embarrassment--she called it embarrassment so as to be able to assure herself
she put it at the very worst-- what had made the particular look was his thus distinguishably
wishing to see how he should find her. Why FIRST--that had, later on, kept coming to her; the
question dangled there as if it were the key to everything. With the sense of it on the spot,
she had felt, overwhelmingly, that she was significant, that so she must instantly strike him,
and that this had a kind of violence beyond what she had intended. It was in fact even at the
moment not absent from her view that he might easily have made an abject fool of her--at least
for the time. She had indeed, for just ten seconds, been afraid of some such turn: the uncertainty
in his face had become so, the next thing, an uncertainty in the very air. Three words of impatience
the least bit loud, some outbreak of "What in the world are you 'up to', and what do you mean?"
any note of that sort would instantly have brought her low--and this all the more that heaven
knew she hadn't in any manner designed to be high. It was such a trifle, her small breach with
custom, or at any rate with his natural presumption, that all magnitude of wonder had already
had, before one could deprecate the shadow of it, the effect of a complication. It had made
for him some difference that she couldn't measure, this meeting him at home and alone instead
of elsewhere and with others, and back and back it kept coming to her that the blankness he
showed her before he was able to SEE might, should she choose to insist on it, have a meaning--have,
as who should say, an historic value-- beyond the importance of momentary expressions in general.
She had naturally had on the spot no ready notion of what he might want to see; it was enough
for a ready notion, not to speak of a beating heart, that he DID see, that he saw his wife
in her own drawing-room at the hour when she would most properly be there. He hadn't in any
way challenged her, it was true, and, after those instants during which she now believed him
to have been harbouring the impression of something unusually prepared and pointed in her attitude
and array, he had advanced upon her smiling and smiling, and thus, without hesitation at the
last, had taken her into his arms. The hesitation had been at the first, and she at present
saw that he had surmounted it without her help. She had given him no help; for if, on the one
hand, she couldn't speak for hesitation, so on the other--and especially as he didn't ask her--she
couldn't explain why she was agitated. She had known it all the while down to her toes, known
it in his presence with fresh intensity, and if he had uttered but a question it would have
pressed in her the spring of recklessness. It had been strange that the most natural thing
of all to say to him should have had that appearance; but she was more than ever conscious
that any appearance she had would come round, more or less straight, to her father, whose life
was now so quiet, on the basis accepted for it, that any alteration of his consciousness even
in the possible sense of enlivenment, would make their precious equilibrium waver. THAT was
at the bottom of her mind, that their equilibrium was everything, and that it was practically
precarious, a matter of a hair's breadth for the loss of the balance. It was the equilibrium,
or at all events her conscious fear about it, that had brought her heart into her mouth; and
the same fear was, on either side, in the silent look she and Amerigo had exchanged. The happy
balance that demanded this amount of consideration was truly thus, as by its own confession,
a delicate matter; but that her husband had also HIS habit of anxiety and his general caution
only brought them, after all, more closely together. It would have been most beautifully, therefore,
in the name of the equilibrium, and in that of her joy at their feeling so exactly the same
about it, that she might have spoken if she had permitted the truth on the subject of her behaviour
to ring out--on the subject of that poor little behaviour which was for the moment so very
limited a case of eccentricity.

"'Why, why' have I made this evening such a point of our not all dining together? Well, because
I've all day been so wanting you alone that I finally couldn't bear it, and that there didn't
seem any great reason why I should try to. THAT came to me--funny as it may at first sound,
with all the things we've so wonderfully got into the way of bearing for each other. You've
seemed these last days--I don't know what: more absent than ever before, too absent for us
merely to go on so. It's all very well, and I perfectly see how beautiful it is, all round;
but there comes a day when something snaps, when the full cup, filled to the very brim, begins
to flow over. That's what has happened to my need of you--the cup, all day, has been too full
to carry. So here I am with it, spilling it over you--and just for the reason that is the reason
of my life. After all, I've scarcely to explain that I'm as much in love with you now as the
first hour; except that there are some hours--which I know when they come, because they almost
frighten me--that show me I'm even more so. They come of themselves--and, ah, they've been
coming! After all, after all--!" Some such words as those were what DIDN'T ring out, yet it
was as if even the unuttered sound had been quenched here in its own quaver. It was where utterance
would have broken down by its very weight if he had let it get so far. Without that extremity,
at the end of a moment, he had taken in what he needed to take--that his wife was TESTIFYING,
that she adored and missed and desired him. "After all, after all," since she put it so, she
was right. That was what he had to respond to; that was what, from the moment that, as has
been said, he "saw," he had to treat as the most pertinent thing possible. He held her close
and long, in expression of their personal reunion--this, obviously, was one way of doing so.
He rubbed his cheek, tenderly, and with a deep vague murmur, against her face, that side of
her face she was not pressing to his breast. That was, not less obviously, another way, and
there were ways enough, in short, for his extemporised ease, for the good humour she was afterwards
to find herself thinking of as his infinite tact. This last was partly, no doubt, because the
question of tact might be felt as having come up at the end of a quarter of an hour during
which he had liberally talked and she had genially questioned. He had told her of his day,
the happy thought of his roundabout journey with Charlotte, all their cathedral-hunting adventure,
and how it had turned out rather more of an affair than they expected. The moral of it was,
at any rate, that he was tired, verily, and must have a bath and dress--to which end she would
kindly excuse him for the shortest time possible. She was to remember afterwards something
that had passed between them on this--how he had looked, for her, during an instant, at the
door, before going out, how he had met her asking him, in hesitation first, then quickly in
decision, whether she couldn't help him by going up with him. He had perhaps also for a moment
hesitated, but he had declined her offer, and she was to preserve, as I say, the memory of
the smile with which he had opined that at that rate they wouldn't dine till ten o'clock and
that he should go straighter and faster alone. Such things, as I say, were to come back to
her--they played, through her full after-sense, like lights on the whole impression; the subsequent
parts of the experience were not to have blurred their distinctness. One of these subsequent
parts, the first, had been the not inconsiderable length, to her later and more analytic consciousness,
of this second wait for her husband's reappearance. She might certainly, with the best will
in the world, had she gone up with him, have been more in his way than not, since people could
really, almost always, hurry better without help than with it. Still, she could actually hardly
have made him take more time than he struck her taking, though it must indeed be added that
there was now in this much-thinking little person's state of mind no mere crudity of impatience.
Something had happened, rapidly, with the beautiful sight of him and with the drop of her fear
of having annoyed him by making him go to and fro. Subsidence of the fearsome, for Maggie's
spirit, was always, at first, positive emergence of the sweet, and it was long since anything
had been so sweet to her as the particular quality suddenly given by her present emotion to
the sense of possession.

                            XXVI

Amerigo was away from her again, as she sat there, as she walked there without him--for she
had, with the difference of his presence in the house, ceased to keep herself from moving about;
but the hour was filled nevertheless with the effect of his nearness, and above all with the
effect, strange in an intimacy so established, of an almost renewed vision of the facts of
his aspect. She had seen him last but five days since, yet he had stood there before her as
if restored from some far country, some long voyage, some combination of dangers or fatigues.
This unquenchable variety in his appeal to her interest, what did it mean but that--reduced
to the flatness of mere statement--she was married, by good fortune, to an altogether dazzling
person? That was an old, old story, but the truth of it shone out to her like the beauty of
some family picture, some mellow portrait of an ancestor, that she might have been looking
at, almost in surprise, after a long intermission. The dazzling person was upstairs and she
was down, and there were moreover the other facts of the selection and decision that this demonstration
of her own had required, and of the constant care that the equilibrium involved; but  she had,
all the same, never felt so absorbingly married, so abjectly conscious of a master of her fate.
He could do what he would with her; in fact what was actually happening was that he was actually
doing it. "What he would," what he REALLY would--only that quantity itself escaped perhaps,
in the brightness of the high harmony, familiar naming and discussing. It was enough of a recognition
for her that, whatever the thing he might desire, he would always absolutely bring it off.
She knew at this moment, without a question, with the fullest surrender, how he had brought
off, in her, by scarce more than a single allusion, a perfect flutter of tenderness. If he
had come back tired, tired from his long day, the exertion had been, literally, in her service
and her father's. They two had sat at home at peace, the Principino between them, the complications
of life kept down, the bores sifted out, the large ease of the home preserved, because of the
way the others held the field and braved the weather. Amerigo never complained--any more than,
for that matter, Charlotte did; but she seemed to see to-night as she had never yet quite done
that their business of social representation, conceived as they conceived it, beyond any conception
of her own, and conscientiously carried out, was an affair of living always in harness. She
remembered Fanny Assingham's old judgment, that friend's description of her father and herself
as not living at all, as not knowing what to do or what might be done for them; and there came
back to her with it an echo of the long talk they had had together, one September day at Fawns,
under the trees, when she put before him this dictum of Fanny's.

That occasion might have counted for them--she had already often made the reflection--as the
first step in an existence more intelligently arranged. It had been an hour from which the
chain of causes and consequences was definitely traceable--so many things, and at the head
of the list her father's marriage, having appeared to her to flow from Charlotte's visit to
Fawns, and that event itself having flowed from the memorable talk. But what perhaps most came
out in the light of these concatenations was that it had been, for all the world, as if Charlotte
had been "had in," as the servants always said of extra help, because they had thus suffered
it to be pointed out to them that if their family coach lumbered and stuck the fault was in
its lacking its complement of wheels. Having but three, as they might say, it had wanted another,
and what had Charlotte done from the first but begin to act, on the spot, and ever so smoothly
and beautifully, as a fourth? Nothing had been, immediately, more manifest than the greater
grace of the movement of the vehicle--as to which, for the completeness of her image, Maggie
was now supremely to feel how every strain had been lightened for herself. So far as SHE was
one of the wheels she had but to keep in her place; since the work was done for her she felt
no weight, and it wasn't too much to acknowledge that she had scarce to turn round. She had
a long pause before the fire during which she might have been fixing with intensity her projected
vision, have been conscious even of its taking an absurd, fantastic shape. She might have been
watching the family coach pass and noting that, somehow, Amerigo and Charlotte were pulling
it while she and her father were not so much as pushing. They were seated inside together,
dandling the Principino and holding him up to the windows, to see and be seen, like an infant
positively royal; so that the exertion was ALL with the others. Maggie found in this image
a repeated challenge; again and yet again she paused before the fire: after which, each time,
in the manner of one for whom a strong light has suddenly broken, she gave herself to livelier
movement. She had seen herself at last, in the picture she was studying, suddenly jump from
the coach; whereupon, frankly, with the wonder of the sight, her eyes opened wider and her
heart stood still for a moment. She looked at the person so acting as if this person were somebody
else, waiting with intensity to see what would follow. The person had taken a decision--which
was evidently because an impulse long gathering had at last felt a sharpest pressure. Only
how was the decision to be applied?-- what, in particular, would the figure in the picture
do? She looked about her, from the middle of the room, under the force of this question, as
if THERE, exactly, were the field of action involved. Then, as the door opened again, she recognised,
whatever the action, the form, at any rate, of a first opportunity. Her husband had reappeared--he
stood before her refreshed, almost radiant, quite reassuring. Dressed, anointed, fragrant,
ready, above all, for his dinner, he smiled at her over the end of their delay. It was as if
her opportunity had depended on his look--and now she saw that it was good. There was still,
for the instant, something in suspense, but it passed more quickly than on his previous entrance.
He was already holding out his arms. It was, for hours and hours, later on, as if she had somehow
been lifted aloft, were floated and carried on some warm high tide beneath which stumbling
blocks had sunk out of sight. This came from her being again, for the time, in the enjoyment
of confidence, from her knowing, as she believed, what to do. All the next day, and all the
next, she appeared to herself to know it. She had a plan, and she rejoiced in her plan: this
consisted of the light that, suddenly breaking into her restless reverie, had marked the climax
of that vigil. It had come to her as a question--"What if I've abandoned THEM, you know? What
if I've accepted too passively the funny form of our life?" There would be a process of her
own by which she might do differently in respect to Amerigo and Charlotte--a process quite
independent of any process of theirs. Such a solution had but to rise before her to affect
her, to charm her, with its simplicity, an advantageous simplicity she had been stupid, for
so long, not to have been struck by; and the simplicity meanwhile seemed proved by the success
that had already begun to attend her. She had only had herself to do something to see how immediately
it answered. This consciousness of its having answered with her husband was the uplifting,
sustaining wave. He had "met" her--she so put it to herself; met her with an effect of generosity
and of gaiety, in especial, on his coming back to her ready for dinner, which she wore in her
breast as the token of an escape for them both from something not quite definite, but clearly,
much less good. Even at that moment, in fact, her plan had begun to work; she had been, when
he brightly reappeared, in the act of plucking it out of the heart of her earnestness--plucking
it, in the garden of thought, as if it had been some full-blown flower that she could present
to him on the spot. Well, it was the flower of participation, and as that, then and there,
she held it out to him, putting straightway into execution the idea, so needlessly, so absurdly
obscured, of her SHARING with him, whatever the enjoyment, the interest, the experience might
be--and sharing also, for that matter, with Charlotte.

She had thrown herself, at dinner, into every feature of the recent adventure of the companions,
letting him see, without reserve, that she wished to hear everything about it, and making Charlotte
in particular, Charlotte's judgment of Matcham, Charlotte's aspect, her success there, her
effect traceably produced, her clothes inimitably worn, her cleverness gracefully displayed,
her social utility, in fine, brilliantly exemplified, the subject of endless inquiry. Maggie's
inquiry was most empathetic, moreover, for the whole happy thought of the cathedral-hunt, which
she was so glad they had entertained, and as to the pleasant results of which, down to the
cold beef and bread-and-cheese, the queer old smell and the dirty table-cloth at the inn, Amerigo
was good-humouredly responsive. He had looked at her across the table, more than once, as if
touched by the humility of this welcome offered to impressions at second-hand, the amusements,
the large freedoms only of others--as if recognising in it something fairly exquisite; and
at the end, while they were alone, before she had rung for a servant, he had renewed again
his condonation of the little irregularity, such as it was, on which she had ventured. They
had risen together to come upstairs; he had been talking at the last about some of the people,
at the very last of all about Lady Castledean and Mr. Blint; after which she had once more
broken ground on the matter of the "type" of Gloucester. It brought her, as he came round the
table to join her, yet another of his kind conscious stares, one of the looks, visibly beguiled,
but at the same time not invisibly puzzled, with which he had already shown his sense of this
charming grace of her curiosity. It was as if he might for a moment be going to say:--"You
needn't PRETEND, dearest, quite so hard, needn't think it necessary to care quite so much!"--it
was as if he stood there before her with some such easy intelligence, some such intimate reassurance,
on his lips. Her answer would have been all ready--that she wasn't in the least pretending;
and she looked up at him, while he took her hand, with the maintenance, the real persistence,
of her lucid little plan in her eyes. She wanted him to understand from that very moment that
she was going to be WITH him again, quite with them, together, as she doubtless hadn't been
since the "funny" changes--that was really all one could call them--into which they had each,
as for the sake of the others, too easily and too obligingly slipped. They had taken too much
for granted that their life together required, as people in London said, a special "form"--which
was very well so long as the form was kept only for the outside world and was made no more
of among themselves than the pretty mould of an iced pudding, or something of that sort, into
which, to help yourself, you didn't hesitate to break with the spoon. So much as that she would,
with an opening, have allowed herself furthermore to observe; she wanted him to understand
how her scheme embraced Charlotte too; so that if he had but uttered the acknowledgment she
judged him on the point of making--the acknowledgment of his catching at her brave little idea
for their case--she would have found herself, as distinctly, voluble almost to eloquence.

What befell, however, was that even while she thus waited she felt herself present at a process
taking place rather deeper within him than the occasion, on the whole, appeared to require--
a process of weighing something in the balance, of considering, deciding, dismissing. He had
guessed that she was there with an idea, there in fact by reason of her idea; only this, oddly
enough, was what at the last stayed his words. She was helped to these perceptions by his now
looking at her still harder than he had yet done--which really brought it to the turn of a
hair, for her, that she didn't make sure his notion of her idea was the right one. It was the
turn of a hair, because he had possession of her hands and was bending toward her, ever so
kindly, as if to see, to understand, more, or possibly give more--she didn't know which; and
that had the effect of simply putting her, as she would have said, in his power. She gave up,
let her idea go, let everything go; her one consciousness was that he was taking her again
into his arms. It was not till afterwards that she discriminated as to this; felt how the act
operated with him instead of the words he hadn't uttered--operated, in his view, as probably
better than any words, as always better, in fact, at any time, than anything. Her acceptance
of it, her response to it, inevitable, foredoomed, came back to her, later on, as a virtual
assent to the assumption he had thus made that there was really nothing such a demonstration
didn't anticipate and didn't dispose of, and that the spring acting within herself moreover
might well have been, beyond any other, the impulse legitimately to provoke it. It made, for
any issue, the third time since his return that he had drawn her to his breast; and at present,
holding her to his side as they left the room, he kept her close for their moving into the
hall and across it, kept her for their slow return together to the apartments above. He had
been right, overwhelmingly right, as to the felicity of his tenderness and the degree of her
sensibility, but even while she felt these things sweep all others away she tasted of a sort
of terror of the weakness they produced in her. It was still, for her, that she had positively
something to do, and that she mustn't be weak for this, must much rather be strong. For many
hours after, none the less, she remained weak--if weak it was; though holding fast indeed to
the theory of her success, since her agitated overture had been, after all, so unmistakably met.

She recovered soon enough on the whole, the sense that this left her Charlotte always to deal
with--Charlotte who, at any rate, however SHE might meet overtures, must meet them, at the
worst, more or less differently. Of that inevitability, of such other ranges of response as
were open to Charlotte, Maggie took the measure in approaching her, on the morrow of her return
from Matcham, with the same show of desire to hear all her story. She wanted the whole picture
from her, as she had wanted it from her companion, and, promptly, in Eaton Square, whither,
without the Prince, she repaired, almost ostentatiously, for the purpose, this purpose only,
she brought her repeatedly back to the subject, both in her husband's presence and during several
scraps of independent colloquy. Before her father, instinctively, Maggie took the ground that
his wish for interesting echoes would be not less than her own--allowing, that is, for everything
his wife would already have had to tell him, for such passages, between them, as might have
occurred since the evening before. Joining them after luncheon, reaching them, in her desire
to proceed with the application of her idea, before they had quitted the breakfast-room, the
scene of their mid-day meal, she referred, in her parent's presence, to what she might have
lost by delay, and expressed the hope that there would be an anecdote or two left for her to
pick up. Charlotte was dressed to go out, and her husband, it appeared, rather positively prepared
not to; he had left the table, but was seated near the fire with two or three of the morning
papers and the residuum of the second and third posts on a stand beside him--more even than
the usual extravagance, as Maggie's glance made out, of circulars, catalogues, advertisements,
announcements of sales, foreign envelopes and foreign handwritings that were as unmistakable
as foreign clothes. Charlotte, at the window, looking into the side-street that abutted on
the Square, might have been watching for their visitor's advent before withdrawing; and in
the light, strange and coloured, like that of a painted picture, which fixed the impression
for her, objects took on values not hitherto so fully shown. It was the effect of her quickened
sensibility; she knew herself again in presence of a problem, in need of a solution for which
she must intensely work: that consciousness, lately born in her, had been taught the evening
before to accept a temporary lapse, but had quickly enough again, with her getting out of her
own house and her walking across half the town--for she had come from Portland Place on foot--found
breath still in its lungs.

It exhaled this breath in a sigh, faint and unheard; her tribute, while she stood there before
speaking, to realities looming through the golden mist that had already begun to be scattered.
The conditions facing her had yielded, for the time, to the golden mist--had considerably melted
away; but there they were again, definite, and it was for the next quarter of an hour as if
she could have counted them one by one on her fingers. Sharp to her above all was the renewed
attestation of her father's comprehensive acceptances, which she had so long regarded as of
the same quality with her own, but which, so distinctly now, she should have the complication
of being obliged to deal with separately. They had not yet struck her as absolutely extraordinary--which
had made for her lumping them with her own, since her view of her own had but so lately begun
to change; though it instantly stood out for her that there was really no new judgment of them
she should be able to show without attracting in some degree his attention, without perhaps
exciting his surprise and making thereby, for the situation she shared with him, some difference.
She was reminded and warned by the concrete image; and for a minute Charlotte's face, immediately
presented to her, affected her as searching her own to see the reminder tell. She had not less
promptly kissed her stepmother, and then had bent over her father, from behind, and laid her
cheek upon him; little amenities tantamount heretofore to an easy change of guard--Charlotte's
own frequent, though always cheerful, term of comparison for this process of transfer. Maggie
figured thus as the relieving sentry, and so smoothly did use and custom work for them that
her mate might even, on this occasion, after acceptance of the pass-word, have departed without
irrelevant and, in strictness, unsoldierly gossip. This was not, none the less, what happened;
inasmuch as if our young woman had been floated over her first impulse to break the existing
charm at a stroke, it yet took her but an instant to sound, at any risk, the note she had been
privately practising. If she had practised it the day before, at dinner, on Amerigo, she knew
but the better how to begin for it with Mrs. Verver, and it immensely helped her, for that
matter, to be able at once to speak of the Prince as having done more to quicken than to soothe
her curiosity. Frankly and gaily she had come to ask--to ask what, in their unusually prolonged
campaign, the two had achieved. She had got out of her husband, she admitted, what she could,
but husbands were never the persons who answered such questions ideally. He had only made her
more curious, and she had arrived early, this way, in order to miss as little as possible of
Charlotte's story.

"Wives, papa," she said; "are always much better reporters-- though I grant," she added for
Charlotte, "that fathers are not much better than husbands. He never," she smiled, "tells me
more than a tenth of what you tell him; so I hope you haven't told him everything yet, since
in that case I shall probably have lost the best part of it." Maggie went, she went--she felt
herself going; she reminded herself of an actress who had been studying a part and rehearsing
it, but who suddenly, on the stage, before the footlights, had begun to improvise, to speak
lines not in the text. It was this very sense of the stage and the footlights that kept her
up, made her rise higher: just as it was the sense of action that logically involved some platform--action
quite positively for the first time in her life, or, counting in the previous afternoon, for
the second. The platform remained for three or four days thus sensibly under her feet, and
she had all the while, with it, the inspiration of quite remarkably, of quite heroically improvising.
Preparation and practice had come but a short way; her part opened out, and she invented from
moment to moment what to say and to do. She had but one rule of art--to keep within bounds
and not lose her head; certainly she might see for a week how far that would take her. She
said to herself, in her excitement, that it was perfectly simple: to bring about a difference,
touch by touch, without letting either of the three, and least of all her father, so much as
suspect her hand. If they should suspect they would want a reason, and the humiliating truth
was that she wasn't ready with a reason--not, that is, with what she would have called a reasonable
one. She thought of herself, instinctively, beautifully, as having dealt, all her life, at
her father's side and by his example, only in reasonable reasons; and what she would really
have been most ashamed of would be to produce for HIM, in this line, some inferior substitute.
Unless she were in a position to plead, definitely, that she was jealous she should be in no
position to plead, decently, that she was dissatisfied. This latter condition would be a necessary
implication of the former; without the former behind it it would HAVE to fall to the ground.
So had the case, wonderfully, been arranged for her; there was a card she could play, but there
was only one, and to play it would be to end the game. She felt herself--as at the small square
green table, between the tall old silver candlesticks and the neatly arranged counters--her
father's playmate and partner; and what it constantly came back to, in her mind, was that for
her to ask a question, to raise a doubt, to reflect in any degree on the play of the others,
would be to break the charm. The charm she had to call it, since it kept her companion so constantly
engaged, so perpetually seated and so contentedly occupied. To say anything at all would be,
in fine, to have to say WHY she was jealous; and she could, in her private hours, but stare
long, with suffused eyes, at that impossibility.

By the end of a week, the week that had begun, especially, with her morning hour, in Eaton
Square, between her father and his wife, her consciousness of being beautifully treated had
become again verily greater than her consciousness of anything else; and I must add, moreover,
that she at last found herself rather oddly wondering what else, as a consciousness, could
have been quite so overwhelming. Charlotte's response to the experiment of being more with
her OUGHT, as she very well knew, to have stamped the experiment with the feeling of success;
so that if the success itself seemed a boon less substantial than the original image of it,
it enjoyed thereby a certain analogy with our young woman's aftertaste of Amerigo's own determined
demonstrations. Maggie was to have retained, for that matter, more than one aftertaste, and
if I have spoken of the impressions fixed in her as soon as she had, so insidiously, taken
the field, a definite note must be made of her perception, during those moments, of Charlotte's
prompt uncertainty. She had shown, no doubt--she couldn't not have shown--that she had arrived
with an idea; quite exactly as she had shown her husband, the night before, that she was awaiting
him with a sentiment. This analogy in the two situations was to keep up for her the remembrance
of a kinship of expression in the two faces in respect to which all she as yet professed to
herself was that she had affected them, or at any rate the sensibility each of them so admirably
covered, in the same way. To make the comparison at all was, for Maggie, to return to it often,
to brood upon it, to extract from it the last dregs of its interest--to play with it, in short,
nervously, vaguely, incessantly, as she might have played with a medallion containing on either
side a cherished little portrait and suspended round her neck by a gold chain of a firm fineness
that no effort would ever snap. The miniatures were back to back, but she saw them forever
face to face, and when she looked from one to the other she found in Charlotte's eyes the gleam
of the momentary "What does she really want?" that had come and gone for her in the Prince's.
So again, she saw the other light, the light touched into a glow both in Portland Place and
in Eaton Square, as soon as she had betrayed that she wanted no harm--wanted no greater harm
of Charlotte, that is, than to take in that she meant to go out with her. She had been present
at that process as personally as she might have been present at some other domestic incident--
the hanging of a new picture, say, or the fitting of the Principino with his first little trousers.

She remained present, accordingly, all the week, so charmingly and systematically did Mrs.
Verver now welcome her company. Charlotte had but wanted the hint, and what was it but the
hint, after all, that, during the so subdued but so ineffaceable passage in the breakfast-room,
she had seen her take? It had been taken moreover not with resignation, not with qualifications
or reserves, however bland; it had been taken with avidity, with gratitude, with a grace of
gentleness that supplanted explanations. The very liberality of this accommodation might indeed
have appeared in the event to give its own account of the matter--as if it had fairly written
the Princess down as a person of variations and had accordingly conformed but to a rule of
tact in accepting these caprices for law. The caprice actually prevailing happened to be that
the advent of one of the ladies anywhere should, till the fit had changed, become the sign,
unfailingly, of the advent of the other; and it was emblazoned, in rich colour, on the bright
face of this period, that Mrs. Verver only wished to know, on any occasion, what was expected
of her, only held herself there for instructions, in order even to better them if possible.
The two young women, while the passage lasted, became again very much the companions of other
days, the days of Charlotte's prolonged visits to the admiring and bountiful Maggie, the days
when equality of condition for them had been all the result of the latter's native vagueness
about her own advantages. The earlier elements flushed into life again, the frequency, the
intimacy, the high pitch of accompanying expression--appreciation, endearment, confidence;
the rarer charm produced in each by this active contribution to the felicity of the other:
all enhanced, furthermore--enhanced or qualified, who should say which?--by a new note of diplomacy,
almost of anxiety, just sensible on Charlotte's part in particular; of intensity of observance,
in the matter of appeal and response, in the matter of making sure the Princess might be disposed
or gratified, that resembled an attempt to play again, with more refinement, at disparity of
relation. Charlotte's attitude had, in short, its moments of flowering into pretty excesses
of civility, self-effacements in the presence of others, sudden little formalisms of suggestion
and recognition, that might have represented her sense of the duty of not "losing sight" of
a social distinction. This impression came out most for Maggie when, in their easier intervals,
they had only themselves to regard, and when her companion's inveteracy of never passing first,
of not sitting till she was seated, of not interrupting till she appeared to give leave, of
not forgetting, too, familiarly, that in addition to being important she was also sensitive,
had the effect of throwing over their intercourse a kind of silver tissue of decorum. It hung
there above them like a canopy of state, a reminder that though the lady-in-waiting was an
established favourite, safe in her position, a little queen, however, good-natured, was always
a little queen and might, with small warning, remember it.

And yet another of these concomitants of feverish success, all the while, was the perception
that in another quarter too things were being made easy. Charlotte's alacrity in meeting her
had, in one sense, operated slightly overmuch as an intervention: it had begun to reabsorb
her at the very hour of her husband's showing her that, to be all there, as the phrase was,
he likewise only required--as one of the other phrases was too--the straight tip. She had heard
him talk about the straight tip, in his moods of amusement at English slang, in his remarkable
displays of assimilative power, power worthy of better causes and higher inspirations; and
he had taken it from her, at need, in a way that, certainly in the first glow of relief, had
made her brief interval seem large. Then, however, immediately, and even though superficially,
there had declared itself a readjustment of relations to which she was, once more, practically
a little sacrificed. "I must do everything," she had said, "without letting papa see what I
do--at least till it's done!" but she scarce knew how she proposed, even for the next few days,
to blind or beguile this participant in her life. What had in fact promptly enough happened,
she presently recognised, was that if her stepmother had beautifully taken possession of her,
and if she had virtually been rather snatched again thereby from her husband's side, so, on
the other hand, this had, with as little delay, entailed some very charming assistance for
her in Eaton Square. When she went home with Charlotte, from whatever happy demonstration,
for the benefit of the world in which they supposed themselves to live, that there was no smallest
reason why their closer association shouldn't be public and acclaimed-- at these times she
regularly found that Amerigo had come either to sit with his father-in-law in the absence of
the ladies, or to make, on his side, precisely some such display of the easy working of the
family life as would represent the equivalent of her excursions with Charlotte. Under this
particular impression it was that everything in Maggie most melted and went to pieces-- every
thing, that is, that belonged to her disposition to challenge the perfection of their common
state. It divided them again, that was true, this particular turn of the tide--cut them up
afresh into pairs and parties; quite as if a sense for the equilibrium was what, between them
all, had most power of insistence; quite as if Amerigo himself were all the while, at bottom,
equally thinking of it and watching it. But, as against that, he was making her father not
miss her, and he could have rendered neither of them a more excellent service. He was acting
in short on a cue, the cue given him by observation; it had been enough for him to see the
shade of change in her behaviour; his instinct for relations, the most exquisite conceivable,
prompted him immediately to meet and match the difference, to play somehow into its hands.
That was what it was, she renewedly felt, to have married a man who was, sublimely, a gentleman;
so that, in spite of her not wanting to translate ALL their delicacies into the grossness of
discussion, she yet found again and again, in Portland Place, moments for saying: "If I didn't
love you, you know, for yourself, I should still love you for HIM." He looked at her, after
such speeches, as Charlotte looked, in Eaton Square, when she called HER attention to his benevolence:
through the dimness of the almost musing smile that took account of her extravagance, harmless
though it might be, as a tendency to reckon with. "But my poor child," Charlotte might under
this pressure have been on the point of replying, "that's the way nice people ARE, all round--so
that why should one be surprised about it? We're all nice together--as why shouldn't we be?
If we hadn't been we wouldn't have gone far--and I consider that we've gone very far indeed.
Why should you 'take on' as if you weren't a perfect dear yourself, capable of all the sweetest
things?--as if you hadn't in fact grown up in an atmosphere, the atmosphere of all the good
things that I recognised, even of old, as soon as I came near you, and that you've allowed
me now, between you, to make so blessedly my own." Mrs. Verver might in fact have but just
failed to make another point, a point charmingly natural to her as a grateful and irreproachable
wife. "It isn't a bit wonderful, I may also remind you, that your husband should find, when
opportunity permits, worse things to do than to go about with mine. I happen, love, to appreciate
my husband--I happen perfectly to understand that his acquaintance should be cultivated and
his company enjoyed."

Some such happily-provoked remarks as these, from Charlotte, at the other house, had been in
the air, but we have seen how there was also in the air, for our young woman, as an emanation
from the same source, a distilled difference of which the very principle was to keep down objections
and retorts. That impression came back--it had its hours of doing so; and it may interest us
on the ground of its having prompted in Maggie a final reflection, a reflection out of the
heart of which a light flashed for her like a great flower grown in a night. As soon as this
light had spread a little it produced in some quarters a surprising distinctness, made her
of a sudden ask herself why there should have been even for three days the least obscurity.
The perfection of her success, decidedly, was like some strange shore to which she had been
noiselessly ferried and where, with a start, she found herself quaking at the thought that
the boat might have put off again and left her. The word for it, the word that flashed the
light, was that they were TREATING her, that they were proceeding with her--and, for that matter,
with her father--by a plan that was the exact counterpart of her own. It was not from her that
they took their cue, but--and this was what in particular made her sit up--from each other;
and with a depth of unanimity, an exact coincidence of inspiration that, when once her attention
had begun to fix it, struck her as staring out at her in recovered identities of behaviour,
expression and tone. They had a view of her situation, and of the possible forms her own consciousness
of it might take--a view determined by the change of attitude they had had, ever so subtly,
to recognise in her on their return from Matcham. They had had to read into this small and
all-but-suppressed variation a mute comment--on they didn't quite know what; and it now arched
over the Princess's head like a vault of bold span that important communication between them
on the subject couldn't have failed of being immediate. This new perception bristled for her,
as we have said, with odd intimations, but questions unanswered played in and out of it as
well--the question, for instance, of why such promptitude of harmony SHOULD have been important.
Ah, when she began to recover, piece by piece, the process became lively; she might have been
picking small shining diamonds out of the sweepings of her ordered house. She bent, in this
pursuit, over her dust-bin; she challenged to the last grain the refuse of her innocent economy.
Then it was that the dismissed vision of Amerigo, that evening, in arrest at the door of her
salottino while her eyes, from her placed chair, took him in--then it was that this immense
little memory gave out its full power. Since the question was of doors, she had afterwards,
she now saw, shut it out; she had responsibly shut in, as we have understood, shut in there
with her sentient self, only the fact of his reappearance and the plenitude of his presence.
These things had been testimony, after all, to supersede any other, for on the spot, even while
she looked, the warmly-washing wave had travelled far up the strand. She had subsequently lived,
for hours she couldn't count, under the dizzying, smothering welter positively in submarine
depths where everything came to her through walls of emerald and mother-of-pearl; though indeed
she had got her head above them, for breath, when face to face with Charlotte again, on the
morrow, in Eaton Square. Meanwhile, none the less, as was so apparent, the prior, the prime
impression had remained, in the manner of a spying servant, on the other side of the barred
threshold; a witness availing himself, in time, of the lightest pretext to re-enter. It was
as if he had found this pretext in her observed necessity of comparing--comparing the obvious
common elements in her husband's and her stepmother's ways of now "taking" her. With or without
her witness, at any rate, she was led by comparison to a sense of the quantity of earnest intention
operating, and operating so harmoniously, between her companions; and it was in the mitigated
midnight of these approximations that she had made out the promise of her dawn.

It was a worked-out scheme for their not wounding her, for their behaving to her quite nobly;
to which each had, in some winning way, induced the other to contribute, and which therefore,
so far as that went, proved that she had become with them a subject of intimate study. Quickly,
quickly, on a certain alarm taken, eagerly and anxiously, before they SHOULD, without knowing
it, wound her, they had signalled from house to house their clever idea, the idea by which,
for all these days, her own idea had been profiting. They had built her in with their purpose--which
was why, above her, a vault seemed more heavily to arch; so that she sat there, in the solid
chamber of her helplessness, as in a bath of benevolence artfully prepared for her, over the
brim of which she could but just manage to see by stretching her neck. Baths of benevolence
were very well, but, at least, unless one were a patient of some sort, a nervous eccentric
or a lost child, one was usually not so immersed save by one's request. It wasn't in the least
what she had requested. She had flapped her little wings as a symbol of desired flight, not
merely as a plea for a more gilded cage and an extra allowance of lumps of sugar. Above all
she hadn't complained, not by the quaver of a syllable--so what wound in particular had she
shown her fear of receiving? What wound HAD she received--as to which she had exchanged the
least word with them? If she had ever whined or moped they might have had some reason; but
she would be hanged--she conversed with herself in strong language--if she had been, from beginning
to end, anything but pliable and mild. It all came back, in consequence, to some required process
of their own, a process operating, quite positively, as a precaution and a policy. They had
got her into the bath and, for consistency with themselves-- which was with each other--must
keep her there. In that condition she wouldn't interfere with the policy, which was established,
which was arranged. Her thought, over this, arrived at a great intensity--had indeed its pauses
and timidities, but always to take afterwards a further and lighter spring. The ground was
well-nigh covered by the time she had made out her husband and his colleague as directly interested
in preventing her freedom of movement. Policy or no policy, it was they themselves who were
arranged. She must be kept in position so as not to DISarrange them. It fitted immensely together,
the whole thing, as soon as she could give them a motive; for, strangely as it had by this
time begun to appear to herself, she had hitherto not imagined them sustained by an ideal distinguishably
different from her own. Of course they were arranged--all four arranged; but what had the basis
of their life been, precisely, but that they were arranged together? Amerigo and Charlotte
were arranged together, but she--to confine the matter only to herself--was arranged apart.
It rushed over her, the full sense of all this, with quite another rush from that of the breaking
wave of ten days before; and as her father himself seemed not to meet the vaguely- clutching
hand with which, during the first shock of complete perception, she tried to steady herself,
she felt very much alone.

                             XXVII

There had been, from far back--that is from the Christmas time on--a plan that the parent and
the child should "do something lovely" together, and they had recurred to it on occasion, nursed
it and brought it up theoretically, though without as yet quite allowing it to put its feet
to the ground. The most it had done was to try a few steps on the drawing-room carpet, with
much attendance, on either side, much holding up and guarding, much anticipation, in fine,
of awkwardness or accident. Their companions, by the same token, had constantly assisted at
the performance, following the experiment with sympathy and gaiety, and never so full of applause,
Maggie now made out for herself, as when the infant project had kicked its little legs most
wildly--kicked them, for all the world, across the Channel and half the Continent, kicked them
over the Pyrenees and innocently crowed out some rich Spanish name. She asked herself at present
if it had been a "real" belief that they were but wanting, for some such adventure, to snatch
their moment; whether either had at any instant seen it as workable, save in the form of a
toy to dangle before the other, that they should take flight, without wife or husband, for
one more look, "before they died," at the Madrid pictures as well as for a drop of further
weak delay in respect to three or four possible prizes, privately offered, rarities of the
first water, responsibly reported on and profusely photographed, still patiently awaiting their
noiseless arrival in retreats to which the clue had not otherwise been given away. The vision
dallied with during the duskier days in Eaton Square had stretched to the span of three or
four weeks of springtime for the total adventure, three or four weeks in the very spirit, after
all, of their regular life, as their regular life had been persisting; full of shared mornings,
afternoons, evenings, walks, drives, "looks-in," at old places, on vague chances; full also,
in especial, of that purchased social ease, the sense of the comfort and credit of their house,
which had essentially the perfection of something paid for, but which "came," on the whole,
so cheap that it might have been felt as costing--as costing the parent and child--nothing.
It was for Maggie to wonder, at present, if she had been sincere about their going, to ask
herself whether she would have stuck to their plan even if nothing had happened.

Her view of the impossibility of sticking to it now may give us the measure of her sense that
everything had happened. A difference had been made in her relation to each of her companions,
and what it compelled her to say to herself was that to behave as she might have behaved before
would be to act, for Amerigo and Charlotte, with the highest hypocrisy. She saw in these days
that a journey abroad with her father would, more than anything else, have amounted, on his
part and her own, to a last expression of an ecstasy of confidence, and that the charm of the
idea, in fact, had been in some such sublimity. Day after day she put off the moment of "speaking,"
as she inwardly and very comprehensively, called it--speaking, that is, to her father; and
all the more that she was ridden by a strange suspense as to his himself breaking silence.
She gave him time, gave him, during several days, that morning, that noon, that night, and
the next and the next and the next; even made up her mind that if he stood off longer it would
be proof conclusive that he too wasn't at peace. They would then have been, all successfully,
throwing dust in each other's eyes; and it would be at last as if they must turn away their
faces, since the silver mist that protected them had begun to grow sensibly thin. Finally,
at the   end of April, she decided that if he should say nothing for another period of twenty-four
hours she must take it as showing that they were, in her private phraseology, lost; so little
possible sincerity could there be in pretending to care for a journey to Spain at the approach
of a summer that already promised to be hot. Such a proposal, on his lips, such an extravagance
of optimism, would be HIS way of being consistent--for that he didn't really want to move,
or to move further, at the worst, than back to Fawns again, could only signify that he wasn't,
at heart, contented. What he wanted, at any rate, and what he didn't want were, in the event,
put to the proof for Maggie just in time to give her a fresh wind. She had been dining, with
her husband, in Eaton Square, on the occasion of hospitality offered by Mr. and Mrs. Verver
to Lord and Lady Castledean. The propriety of some demonstration of this sort had been for
many days before our group, the question reduced to the mere issue of which of the two houses
should first take the field. The issue had been easily settled--in the manner of every issue
referred in any degree to Amerigo and Charlotte: the initiative obviously belonged to Mrs.
Verver, who had gone to Matcham while Maggie had stayed away, and the evening in Eaton Square
might have passed for a demonstration all the more personal that the dinner had been planned
on "intimate" lines. Six other guests only, in addition to the host and the hostess of Matcham,
made up the company, and each of these persons had for Maggie the interest of an attested connection
with the Easter revels at that visionary house. Their common memory of an occasion that had
clearly left behind it an ineffaceable charm-- this air of beatific reference, less subdued
in the others than in Amerigo and Charlotte, lent them, together, an inscrutable comradeship
against which the young woman's imagination broke in a small vain wave.

It wasn't that she wished she had been of the remembered party and possessed herself of its
secrets; for she didn't care about its secrets--she could concern herself at present, absolutely,
with no secret but her own. What occurred was simply that she became aware, at a stroke, of
the quantity of further nourishment required by her own, and of the amount of it she might
somehow extract from these people; whereby she rose, of a sudden, to the desire to possess
and use them, even to the extent of braving, of fairly defying, of directly exploiting, of
possibly quite enjoying, under cover of an evil duplicity, the felt element of curiosity with
which they regarded her. Once she was conscious of the flitting wing of this last impression--the
perception, irresistible, that she was something for their queer experience, just as they were
something for hers--there was no limit to her conceived design of not letting them escape.
She went and went, again, to-night, after her start was taken; went, positively, as she had
felt herself going, three weeks before, on the morning when the vision of her father and his
wife awaiting her together in the breakfast-room had been so determinant. In this other scene
it was Lady Castledean who was determinant, who kindled the light, or at all events the heat,
and who acted on the nerves; Lady Castledean whom she knew she, so oddly, didn't like, in spite
of reasons upon reasons, the biggest diamonds on the yellowest hair, the longest lashes on
the prettiest, falsest eyes, the oldest lace on the most violet velvet, the rightest manner
on the wrongest assumption. Her ladyship's assumption was that she kept, at every moment of
her life, every advantage--it made her beautifully soft, very nearly generous; so she didn't
distinguish the little protuberant eyes of smaller social insects, often endowed with such
a range, from the other decorative spots on their bodies and wings. Maggie had liked, in London,
and in the world at large, so many more people than she had thought it right to fear, right
even to so much as judge, that it positively quickened her fever to have to recognise, in this
case, such a lapse of all the sequences. It was only that a charming clever woman wondered
about her--that is wondered about her as Amerigo's wife, and wondered, moreover, with the intention
of kindness and the spontaneity, almost, of surprise.

The point of view--that one--was what she read in their free contemplation, in that of the
whole eight; there was something in Amerigo to be explained, and she was passed about, all
tenderly and expertly, like a dressed doll held, in the right manner, by its firmly-stuffed
middle, for the account she could give. She might have been made to give it by pressure of
her stomach; she might have been expected to articulate, with a rare imitation of nature, "Oh
yes, I'm HERE all the while; I'm also in my way a solid little fact and I cost originally a
great deal of money: cost, that is, my father, for my outfit, and let in my husband for an
amount of pains--toward my training--that money would scarce represent." Well, she WOULD meet
them in some such way, and she translated her idea into action, after dinner, before they dispersed,
by engaging them all, unconventionally, almost violently, to dine with her in Portland Place,
just as they were, if they didn't mind the same party, which was the party she wanted. Oh she
was going, she was going--she could feel it afresh; it was a good deal as if she had sneezed
ten times or had suddenly burst into a comic song. There were breaks in the connection, as
there would be hitches in the process; she didn't wholly see, yet, what they would do for her,
nor quite how, herself, she should handle them; but she was dancing up and down, beneath her
propriety, with the thought that she had at least begun something--she so fairly liked to feel
that she was a point for convergence of wonder. It wasn't after all, either, that THEIR wonder
so much signified--that of the cornered six, whom it glimmered before her that she might still
live to drive about like a flock of sheep: the intensity of her consciousness, its sharpest
savour, was in the theory of her having diverted, having, as they said, captured the attention
of Amerigo and Charlotte, at neither of whom, all the while, did she so much as once look.
She had pitched them in with the six, for that matter, so far as they themselves were concerned;
they had dropped, for the succession of minutes, out of contact with their function-- had,
in short, startled and impressed, abandoned their post. "They're paralysed, they're paralysed!"
she commented, deep within; so much it helped her own apprehension to hang together that they
should suddenly lose their bearings.

Her grasp of appearances was thus out of proportion to her view of causes; but it came to her
then and there that if she could only get the facts of appearance straight, only jam them down
into their place, the reasons lurking behind them, kept uncertain, for the eyes, by their wavering
and shifting, wouldn't perhaps be able to help showing. It wasn't of course that the Prince
and Mrs. Verver marvelled to see her civil to their friends; it was rather, precisely, that
civil was just what she wasn't: she had so departed from any such custom of delicate approach--approach
by the permitted note, the suggested "if," the accepted vagueness--as would enable the people
in question to put her off if they wished. And the profit of her plan, the effect of the violence
she was willing to let it go for, was exactly in their BEING the people in question, people
she had seemed to be rather shy of before and for whom she suddenly opened her mouth so wide.
Later on, we may add, with the ground soon covered by her agitated but resolute step, it was
to cease to matter what people they were or weren't; but meanwhile the particular sense of
them that she had taken home to-night had done her the service of seeming to break the ice
where that formation was thickest. Still more unexpectedly, the service might have been the
same for her father; inasmuch as, immediately, when everyone had gone, he did exactly what
she had been waiting for and despairing of--and did it, as he did everything, with a simplicity
that left any purpose of sounding him deeper, of drawing him out further, of going, in his
own frequent phrase, "behind" what he said, nothing whatever to do. He brought it out straight,
made it bravely and beautifully irrelevant, save for the plea of what they should lose by breaking
the charm: "I guess we won't go down there after all, will we, Mag?--just when it's getting
so pleasant here." That was all, with nothing to lead up to it; but it was done for her at
a stroke, and done, not less, more rather, for Amerigo and Charlotte, on whom the immediate
effect, as she secretly, as she almost breathlessly measured it, was prodigious. Everything
now so fitted for her to everything else that she could feel the effect as prodigious even
while sticking to her policy of giving the pair no look. There were thus some five wonderful
minutes during which they loomed, to her sightless eyes, on either side of her, larger than
they had ever loomed before, larger than life, larger than thought, larger than any danger
or any safety. There was thus a space of time, in fine, fairly vertiginous for her, during
which she took no more account of them than if they were not in the room.

She had never, never treated them in any such way--not even just now, when she had plied her
art upon the Matcham band; her present manner was an intenser exclusion, and the air was charged
with their silence while she talked with her other companion as if she had nothing but him
to consider. He had given her the note amazingly, by his allusion to the pleasantness--that
of such an occasion as his successful dinner--which might figure as their bribe for renouncing;
so that it was all as if they were speaking selfishly, counting on a repetition of just such
extensions of experience. Maggie achieved accordingly an act of unprecedented energy, threw
herself into her father's presence as by the absolute consistency with which she held his eyes;
saying to herself, at the same time that she smiled and talked and inaugurated her system,
"What does he mean by it? That's the question--what does he mean?" but studying again all the
signs in him that recent anxiety had made familiar and counting the stricken minutes on the
part of the others. It was in their silence that the others loomed, as she felt; she had had
no measure, she afterwards knew, of this duration, but it drew out and out--really to what
would have been called in simpler conditions awkwardness--as if she herself were stretching
the cord. Ten minutes later, however, in the homeward carriage, to which her husband, cutting
delay short, had proceeded at the first announcement, ten minutes later she was to stretch
it almost to breaking. The Prince had permitted her to linger much less, before his move to
the door, than they usually lingered at the gossiping close of such evenings; which she, all
responsive, took for a sign of his impatience to modify for her the odd effect of his not having,
and of Charlotte's not having, instantly acclaimed the issue of the question debated, or more
exactly, settled, before them. He had had time to become aware of this possible impression
in her, and his virtually urging her into the carriage was connected with his feeling that
he must take action on the new ground. A certain ambiguity in her would absolutely have tormented
him; but he had already found something to soothe and correct--as to which she had, on her
side, a shrewd notion of what it would be. She was herself, for that matter, prepared, and
she was, of a truth, as she took her seat in the brougham, amazed at her preparation. It allowed
her scarce an interval; she brought it straight out.

"I was certain that was what father would say if I should leave him alone. I HAVE been leaving
him alone, and you see the effect. He hates now to move--he likes too much to be with us. But
if you see the effect"--she felt herself magnificently keeping it up-- "perhaps you don't see
the cause. The cause, my dear, is too lovely."

Her husband, on taking his place beside her, had, during a minute or two, for her watching
sense, neither said nor done anything; he had been, for that sense, as if thinking, waiting,
deciding: yet it was still before he spoke that he, as she felt it to be, definitely acted.
He put his arm round her and drew her close-- indulged in the demonstration, the long, firm
embrace by his single arm, the infinite pressure of her whole person to his own, that such
opportunities had so often suggested and prescribed. Held, accordingly, and, as she could but
too intimately feel, exquisitely solicited, she had said the thing she was intending and desiring
to say, and as to which she felt, even more than she felt anything else, that whatever he might
do she mustn't be irresponsible. Yes, she was in his exerted grasp, and she knew what that
was; but she was at the same time in the grasp of her conceived responsibility, and the extraordinary
thing was that, of the two intensities, the second was presently to become the sharper. He
took his time for it meanwhile, but he met her speech after a fashion.

"The cause of your father's deciding not to go?"

"Yes, and of my having wanted to let it act for him quietly--I mean without my insistence."
She had, in her compressed state, another pause, and it made her feel as if she were immensely
resisting. Strange enough was this sense for her, and altogether new, the sense of possessing,
by miraculous help, some advantage that, absolutely then and there, in the carriage, as they
rolled, she might either give up or keep. Strange, inexpressibly strange--so distinctly she
saw that if she did give it up she should somehow give up everything for ever. And what her
husband's grasp really meant, as her very bones registered, was that she SHOULD give it up:
it was exactly for this that he had resorted to unfailing magic. He KNEW HOW to resort to it--he
could be, on occasion, as she had lately more than ever learned, so munificent a lover: all
of which was, precisely, a part of the character she had never ceased to regard in him as princely,
a part of his large and beautiful ease, his genius for charm, for intercourse, for expression,
for life. She should have but to lay her head back on his shoulder with a certain movement
to make it definite for him that she didn't resist. To this, as they went, every throb of her
consciousness prompted her--every throb, that is, but one, the throb of her deeper need to
know where she "really" was. By the time she had uttered the rest of her idea, therefore, she
was still keeping her head and intending to keep it; though she was also staring out of the
carriage-window with eyes into which the tears of suffered pain had risen, indistinguishable,
perhaps, happily, in the dusk. She was making an effort that horribly hurt her, and, as she
couldn't cry out, her eyes swam in her silence. With them, all the same, through the square
opening beside her, through the grey panorama of the London night, she achieved the feat of
not losing sight of what she wanted; and her lips helped and protected her by being able to
be gay. "It's not to leave YOU, my dear--for that he'll give up anything; just as he would
go off anywhere, I think, you know, if you would go with him. I mean you and he alone," Maggie
pursued with her gaze out of her window.

For which Amerigo's answer again took him a moment. "Ah, the dear old boy! You would like me
to propose him something--?"

"Well, if you think you could bear it."

"And leave," the Prince asked, "you and Charlotte alone?"

"Why not?" Maggie had also to wait a minute, but when she spoke it came clear. "Why shouldn't
Charlotte be just one of MY reasons--my not liking to leave her? She has always been so good,
so perfect, to me--but never so wonderfully as just now. We have somehow been more together--thinking,
for the time, almost only of each other; it has been quite as in old days." And she proceeded
consummately, for she felt it as consummate: "It's as if we had been missing each other, had
got a little apart--though going on so side by side. But the good moments, if one only waits
for them," she hastened to add, "come round of themselves. Moreover you've seen for yourself,
since you've made it up so to father; feeling, for yourself, in your beautiful way, every difference,
every air that blows; not having to be told or pushed, only being perfect to live with, through
your habit of kindness and your exquisite instincts. But of course you've seen, all the while,
that both he and I have deeply felt how you've managed; managed that he hasn't been too much
alone and that I, on my side, haven't appeared, to--what you might call-- neglect him. This
is always," she continued, "what I can never bless you enough for; of all the good things you've
done for me you've never done anything better." She went on explaining as for the pleasure
of explaining--even though knowing he must recognise, as a part of his easy way too, her description
of his large liberality. "Your taking the child down yourself, those days, and your coming,
each time, to bring him away--nothing in the world, nothing you could have invented, would
have kept father more under the charm. Besides, you know how you've always suited him, and
how you've always so beautifully let it seem to him that he suits you. Only it has been, these
last weeks, as if you wished--just in order to please him--to remind him of it afresh. So there
it is," she wound up; "it's your doing. You've produced your effect--that of his wanting not
to be, even for a month or two, where you're not. He doesn't want to bother or bore you--THAT,
I think, you know, he never has done; and if you'll only give me time I'll come round again
to making it my care, as always, that he shan't. But he can't bear you out of his sight."

She had kept it up and up, filling it out, crowding it in; and all, really, without difficulty,
for it was, every word of it, thanks to a long evolution of feeling, what she had been primed
to the brim with. She made the picture, forced it upon him, hung it before him; remembering,
happily, how he had gone so far, one day, supported by the Principino, as to propose the Zoo
in Eaton Square, to carry with him there, on the spot, under this pleasant inspiration, both
his elder and his younger companion, with the latter of whom he had taken the tone that they
were introducing Granddaddy, Granddaddy nervous and rather funking it, to lions and tigers
more or less at large. Touch by touch she thus dropped into her husband's silence the truth
about his good nature and his good manners; and it was this demonstration of his virtue, precisely,
that added to the strangeness, even for herself, of her failing as yet to yield to him. It
would be a question but of the most trivial act of surrender, the vibration of a nerve, the
mere movement of a muscle; but the act grew important between them just through her doing perceptibly
nothing, nothing but talk in the very tone that would naturally have swept her into tenderness.
She knew more and more--every lapsing minute taught her--how he might by a single rightness
make her cease to watch him; that rightness, a million miles removed from the queer actual,
falling so short, which would consist of his breaking out to her diviningly, indulgently, with
the last happy inconsequence. "Come away with me, somewhere, YOU--and then we needn't think,
we needn't even talk, of anything, of anyone else:" five words like that would answer her,
would break her utterly down. But they were the only ones that would so serve. She waited for
them, and there was a supreme instant when, by the testimony of all the rest of him, she seemed
to feel them in his heart and on his lips; only they didn't sound, and as that made her wait
again so it made her more intensely watch. This in turn showed her that he too watched and
waited, and how much he had expected something that he now felt wouldn't come. Yes, it wouldn't
come if he didn't answer her, if he but said the wrong things instead of the right. If he could
say the right everything would come--it hung by a hair that everything might crystallise for
their recovered happiness at his touch. This possibility glowed at her, however, for fifty
seconds, only then to turn cold, and as it fell away from her she felt the chill of reality
and knew again, all but pressed to his heart and with his breath upon her cheek, the slim rigour
of her attitude, a rigour beyond that of her natural being. They had silences, at last, that
were almost crudities of mutual resistance--silences that persisted through his felt effort
to treat her recurrence to the part he had lately played, to interpret all the sweetness of
her so talking to him, as a manner of making love to him. Ah, it was no such manner, heaven
knew, for Maggie; she could make love, if this had been in question, better than that! On top
of which it came to her presently to say, keeping in with what she had already spoken: "Except
of course that, for the question of going off somewhere, he'd go readily, quite delightedly,
with you. I verily believe he'd like to have you for a while to himself."

"Do you mean he thinks of proposing it?" the Prince after a moment sounded.

"Oh no--he doesn't ask, as you must so often have seen. But I believe he'd go 'like a shot,'
as you say, if you were to suggest it."

It had the air, she knew, of a kind of condition made, and she had asked herself while she
spoke if it wouldn't cause his arm to let her go. The fact that it didn't suggested to her
that she had made him, of a sudden, still more intensely think, think with such concentration
that he could do but one thing at once. And it was precisely as if the concentration had the
next moment been proved in him. He took a turn inconsistent with the superficial impression--a
jump that made light of their approach to gravity and represented for her the need in him to
gain time. That she made out, was his drawback--that the warning from her had come to him,
and had come to Charlotte, after all, too suddenly. That they were in face of it rearranging,
that they had to rearrange, was all before her again; yet to do as they would like they must
enjoy a snatch, longer or shorter, of recovered independence. Amerigo, for the instant, was
but doing as he didn't like, and it was as if she were watching his effort without disguise.
"What's your father's idea, this year, then, about Fawns? Will he go at Whitsuntide, and will
he then stay on?"

Maggie went through the form of thought. "He will really do, I imagine, as he has, in so many
ways, so often done before; do whatever may seem most agreeable to yourself. And there's of
course always Charlotte to be considered. Only their going early to Fawns, if they do go,"
she said, "needn't in the least entail your and my going."

"Ah," Amerigo echoed, "it needn't in the least entail your and my going?"

"We can do as we like. What they may do needn't trouble us, since they're by good fortune perfectly
happy together."

"Oh," the Prince returned, "your father's never so happy as with you near him to enjoy his
being so."

"Well, I may enjoy it," said Maggie, "but I'm not the cause of it."

"You're the cause," her husband declared, "of the greater part of everything that's good among
us." But she received this tribute in silence, and the next moment he pursued: "If Mrs. Verver
has arrears of time with you to make up, as you say, she'll scarcely do it--or you scarcely
will--by our cutting, your and my cutting, too loose."

"I see what you mean," Maggie mused.

He let her for a little to give her attention to it; after which, "Shall I just quite, of a
sudden," he asked, "propose him a journey?"

Maggie hesitated, but she brought forth the fruit of reflection. "It would have the merit that
Charlotte then would be with me-- with me, I mean, so much more. Also that I shouldn't, by
choosing such a time for going away, seem unconscious and ungrateful, seem not to respond,
seem in fact rather to wish to shake her off. I should respond, on the contrary, very markedly--by
being here alone with her for a month."

"And would you like to be here alone with her for a month?"

"I could do with it beautifully. Or we might even," she said quite gaily, "go together down
to Fawns."

"You could be so very content without me?" the Prince presently inquired.

"Yes, my own dear--if you could be content for a while with father. That would keep me up.
I might, for the time," she went on, "go to stay there with Charlotte; or, better still, she
might come to Portland Place."

"Oho!" said the Prince with cheerful vagueness.

"I should feel, you see," she continued, "that the two of us were showing the same sort of
kindness."

Amerigo thought. "The two of us? Charlotte and I?"

Maggie again hesitated. "You and I, darling."

"I see, I see"--he promptly took it in. "And what reason shall I give--give, I mean, your father?"

"For asking him to go off? Why, the very simplest--if you conscientiously can. The desire,"
said Maggie, "to be agreeable to him. Just that only."

Something in this reply made her husband again reflect. "'Conscientiously?' Why shouldn't I
conscientiously? It wouldn't, by your own contention," he developed, "represent any surprise
for him. I must strike him sufficiently as, at the worst, the last person in the world to wish
to do anything to hurt him."

Ah, there it was again, for Maggie--the note already sounded, the note of the felt need of
not working harm! Why this precautionary view, she asked herself afresh, when her father had
complained, at the very least, as little as herself? With their stillness together so perfect,
what had suggested so, around them, the attitude of sparing them? Her inner vision fixed it
once more, this attitude, saw it, in the others, as vivid and concrete, extended it straight
from her companion to Charlotte. Before she was well aware, accordingly, she had echoed in
this intensity of thought Amerigo's last words. "You're the last person in the world to wish
to do anything to hurt him."

She heard herself, heard her tone, after she had spoken, and heard it the more that, for a
minute after, she felt her husband's eyes on her face, very close, too close for her to see
him. He was looking at her because he was struck, and looking hard--though his answer, when
it came, was straight enough. "Why, isn't that just what we have been talking about--that I've
affected you as fairly studying his comfort and his pleasure? He might show his sense of it,"
the Prince went on, "by proposing to ME an excursion."

"And you would go with him?" Maggie immediately asked.

He hung fire but an instant. "Per Dio!"

She also had her pause, but she broke it--since gaiety was in the air--with an intense smile.
"You can say that safely, because the proposal's one that, of his own motion, he won't make."

She couldn't have narrated afterwards--and in fact was at a loss to tell herself--by what transition,
what rather marked abruptness of change in their personal relation, their drive came to its
end with a kind of interval established, almost confessed to, between them. She felt it in
the tone with which he repeated, after her, "'Safely'--?"

"Safely as regards being thrown with him perhaps after all, in such a case, too long. He's
a person to think you might easily feel yourself to be. So it won't," Maggie said, "come from
father. He's too modest."

Their eyes continued to meet on it, from corner to corner of the brougham. "Oh your modesty,
between you--!" But he still smiled for it. "So that unless I insist--?"

"We shall simply go on as we are."

"Well, we're going on beautifully," he answered--though by no means with the effect it would
have had if their mute transaction, that of attempted capture and achieved escape, had not
taken place. As Maggie said nothing, none the less, to gainsay his remark, it was open to him
to find himself the next moment conscious of still another idea. "I wonder if it would do.
I mean for me to break in."

"'To break in'--?"

"Between your father and his wife. But there would be a way," he said--"we can make Charlotte
ask him." And then as Maggie herself now wondered, echoing it again: "We can suggest to her
to suggest to him that he shall let me take him off."

"Oh!" said Maggie.

"Then if he asks her why I so suddenly break out she'll be able to tell him the reason."

They were stopping, and the footman, who had alighted, had rung at the house-door. "That you
think it would be so charming?"

"That I think it would be so charming. That we've persuaded HER will be convincing."

"I see," Maggie went on while the footman came back to let them out. "I see," she said again;
though she felt a little disconcerted. What she really saw, of a sudden, was that her stepmother
might report her as above all concerned for the proposal, and this brought her back her need
that her father shouldn't think her concerned in any degree for anything. She alighted the
next instant with a slight sense of defeat; her husband, to let her out, had passed before
her, and, a little in advance, he awaited her on the edge of the low terrace, a step high,
that preceded their open entrance, on either side of which one of their servants stood. The
sense of a life tremendously ordered and fixed rose before her, and there was something in
Amerigo's very face, while his eyes again met her own through the dusky lamplight, that was
like a conscious reminder of it. He had answered her, just before, distinctly, and it appeared
to leave her nothing to say. It was almost as if, having planned for the last word, she saw
him himself enjoying it. It was almost as if--in the strangest way in the world--he were paying
her back, by the production of a small pang, that of a new uneasiness, for the way she had
slipped from him during their drive.

                            XXVIII

Maggie's new uneasiness might have had time to drop, inasmuch as she not only was conscious,
during several days that followed, of no fresh indication for it to feed on, but was even struck,
in quite another way, with an augmentation of the symptoms of that difference she had taken
it into her head to work for. She recognised by the end of a week that if she had been in a
manner caught up her father had been not less so--with the effect of her husband's and his
wife's closing in, together, round them, and of their all having suddenly begun, as a party
of four, to lead a life gregarious, and from that reason almost hilarious, so far as the easy
sound of it went, as never before. It might have been an accident and a mere coincidence--so
at least she said to herself at first; but a dozen chances that furthered the whole appearance
had risen to the surface, pleasant pretexts, oh certainly pleasant, as pleasant as Amerigo
in particular could make them, for associated undertakings, quite for shared adventures, for
its always turning out, amusingly, that they wanted to do very much the same thing at the same
time and in the same way. Funny all this was, to some extent, in the light of the fact that
the father and daughter, for so long, had expressed so few positive desires; yet it would be
sufficiently natural that if Amerigo and Charlotte HAD at last got a little tired of each other's
company they should find their relief not so much in sinking to the rather low level of their
companions as in wishing to pull the latter into the train in which they so constantly moved.
"We're in the train," Maggie mutely reflected after the dinner in Eaton Square with Lady Castledean;
"we've suddenly waked up in it and found ourselves rushing along, very much as if we had been
put in during sleep--shoved, like a pair of labelled boxes, into the van. And since I wanted
to 'go' I'm certainly going," she might have added; "I'm moving without trouble--they're doing
it all for us: it's wonderful how they understand and how perfectly it succeeds." For that
was the thing she had most immediately to acknowledge: it seemed as easy for them to make a
quartette as it had formerly so long appeared for them to make a pair of couples--this latter
being thus a discovery too absurdly belated. The only point at which, day after day, the success
appeared at all qualified was represented, as might have been said, by her irresistible impulse
to give her father a clutch when the train indulged in one of its occasional lurches. Then--there
was no denying it--his eyes and her own met; so that they were themselves doing active violence,
as against the others, to that very spirit of union, or at least to that very achievement of
change, which she had taken the field to invoke.

The maximum of change was reached, no doubt, the day the Matcham party dined in Portland Place;
the day, really perhaps, of Maggie's maximum of social glory, in the sense of its showing for
her own occasion, her very own, with every one else extravagantly rallying and falling in,
absolutely conspiring to make her its heroine. It was as if her father himself, always with
more initiative as a guest than as a host, had dabbled too in the conspiracy; and the impression
was not diminished by the presence of the Assinghams, likewise very much caught-up, now, after
something of a lull, by the side-wind of all the rest of the motion, and giving our young woman,
so far at least as Fanny was concerned, the sense of some special intention of encouragement
and applause. Fanny, who had not been present at the other dinner, thanks to a preference entertained
and expressed by Charlotte, made a splendid show at this one, in new orange-coloured velvet
with multiplied turquoises, and with a confidence, furthermore, as different as possible, her
hostess inferred, from her too-marked betrayal of a belittled state at Matcham. Maggie was
not indifferent to her own opportunity to redress this balance--which seemed, for the hour,
part of a general rectification; she liked making out for herself that on the high level of
Portland Place, a spot exempt, on all sorts of grounds, from jealous jurisdictions, her friend
could feel as "good" as any one, and could in fact at moments almost appear to take the lead
in recognition and celebration, so far as the evening might conduce to intensify the lustre
of the little Princess. Mrs. Assingham produced on her the impression of giving her constantly
her cue for this; and it was in truth partly by her help, intelligently, quite gratefully accepted,
that the little Princess, in Maggie, was drawn out and emphasised. She couldn't definitely
have said how it happened, but she felt herself, for the first time in her career, living up
to the public and popular notion of such a personage, as it pressed upon her from all round;
rather wondering, inwardly too, while she did so, at that strange mixture in things through
which the popular notion could be evidenced for her by such supposedly great ones of the earth
as the Castledeans and their kind. Fanny Assingham might really have been there, at all events,
like one of the assistants in the ring at the circus, to keep up the pace of the sleek revolving
animal on whose back the lady in short spangled skirts should brilliantly caper and posture.
That was all, doubtless Maggie had forgotten, had neglected, had declined, to be the little
Princess on anything like the scale open to her; but now that the collective hand had been
held out to her with such alacrity, so that she might skip up into the light, even, as seemed
to her modest mind, with such a show of pink stocking and such an abbreviation of white petticoat,
she could strike herself as perceiving, under arched eyebrows, where her mistake had been.
She had invited for the later hours, after her dinner, a fresh contingent, the whole list of
her apparent London acquaintance-- which was again a thing in the manner of little princesses
for whom the princely art was a matter of course. That was what she was learning to do, to
fill out as a matter of course her appointed, her expected, her imposed character; and, though
there were latent considerations that somewhat interfered with the lesson, she was having to-night
an inordinate quantity of practice, none of it so successful as when, quite wittingly, she
directed it at Lady Castledean, who was reduced by it at last to an unprecedented state of
passivity. The perception of this high result caused Mrs. Assingham fairly to flush with responsive
joy; she glittered at her young friend, from moment to moment, quite feverishly; it was positively
as if her young friend had, in some marvellous, sudden, supersubtle way, become a source of
succour to herself, become beautifully, divinely retributive. The intensity of the taste of
these registered phenomena was in fact that somehow, by a process and through a connexion not
again to be traced, she so practised, at the same time, on Amerigo and Charlotte--with only
the drawback, her constant check and second-thought, that she concomitantly practised perhaps
still more on her father.

This last was a danger indeed that, for much of the ensuing time, had its hours of strange
beguilement--those at which her sense for precautions so suffered itself to lapse that she
felt her communion with him more intimate than any other. It COULDN'T but pass between them
that something singular was happening--so much as this she again and again said to herself;
whereby the comfort of it was there, after all, to be noted, just as much as the possible peril,
and she could think of the couple they formed together as groping, with sealed lips, but with
mutual looks that had never been so tender, for some freedom, some fiction, some figured bravery,
under which they might safely talk of it. The moment was to come--and it finally came with
an effect as penetrating as the sound that follows the pressure of an electric button--when
she read the least helpful of meanings into the agitation she had created. The merely specious
description of their case would have been that, after being for a long time, as a family, delightfully,
uninterruptedly happy, they had still had a new felicity to discover; a felicity for which,
blessedly, her father's appetite and her own, in particular, had been kept fresh and grateful.
This livelier march of their intercourse as a whole was the thing that occasionally determined
in him the clutching instinct we have glanced at; very much as if he had said to her, in default
of her breaking silence first: "Everything is remarkably pleasant, isn't it?--but WHERE, for
it, after all, are we? up in a balloon and whirling through space, or down in the depths of
the earth, in the glimmering passages of a gold-mine?" The equilibrium, the precious condition,
lasted in spite of rearrangement; there had been a fresh distribution of the different weights,
but the balance persisted and triumphed: all of which was just the reason why she was forbidden,
face to face with the companion of her adventure, the experiment of a test. If they balanced
they balanced--she had to take that; it deprived her of every pretext for arriving, by however
covert a process, at what he thought.

But she had her hours, thus, of feeling supremely linked to him by the rigour of their law,
and when it came over her that, all the while, the wish, on his side, to spare her might be
what most worked with him, this very fact of their seeming to have nothing "inward" really
to talk about wrapped him up for her in a kind of sweetness that was wanting, as a consecration,
even in her yearning for her husband. She was powerless, however, was only more utterly hushed,
when the interrupting flash came, when she would have been all ready to say to him, "Yes, this
is by every appearance the best time we've had yet; but don't you see, all the same, how they
must be working together for it, and how my very success, my success in shifting our beautiful
harmony to a new basis, comes round to being their success, above all; their cleverness, their
amiability, their power to hold out, their complete possession, in short, of our life?" For
how could she say as much as that without saying a great deal more? without saying "They'll
do everything in the world that suits us, save only one thing--prescribe a line for us that
will make them separate." How could she so much as imagine herself even faintly murmuring that
without putting into his mouth the very words that would have made her quail? "Separate, my
dear? Do you want them to separate? Then you want US to--you and me? For how can the one separation
take place without the other?" That was the question that, in spirit, she had heard him ask--with
its dread train, moreover, of involved and connected inquiries. Their own separation, his and
hers, was of course perfectly thinkable, but only on the basis of the sharpest of reasons.
Well, the sharpest, the very sharpest, would be that they could no longer afford, as it were,
he to let his wife, she to let her husband, "run" them in such compact formation. And say they
accepted this account of their situation as a practical finality, acting upon it and proceeding
to a division, would no sombre ghosts of the smothered past, on either side, show, across the
widening strait, pale unappeased faces, or raise, in the very passage, deprecating, denouncing
hands?

Meanwhile, however such things might be, she was to have occasion to say to herself that there
might be but a deeper treachery in recoveries and reassurances. She was to feel alone again,
as she had felt at the issue of her high tension with her husband during their return from
meeting the Castledeans in Eaton Square. The evening in question had left her with a larger
alarm, but then a lull had come--the alarm, after all, was yet to be confirmed. There came
an hour, inevitably, when she knew, with a chill, what she had feared and why; it had taken,
this hour, a month to arrive, but to find it before her was thoroughly to recognise it, for
it showed her sharply what Amerigo had meant in alluding to a particular use that they might
make, for their reaffirmed harmony and prosperity, of Charlotte. The more she thought, at present,
of the tone he had employed to express their enjoyment of this resource, the more it came back
to her as the product of a conscious art of dealing with her. He had been conscious, at the
moment, of many things--conscious even, not a little, of desiring; and thereby of needing,
to see what she would do in a given case. The given case would be that of her being to a certain
extent, as she might fairly make it out, MENACED-- horrible as it was to impute to him any
intention represented by such a word. Why it was that to speak of making her stepmother intervene,
as they might call it, in a question that seemed, just then and there, quite peculiarly their
own business--why it was that a turn so familiar and so easy should, at the worst, strike her
as charged with the spirit of a threat, was an oddity disconnected, for her, temporarily, from
its grounds, the adventure of an imagination within her that possibly had lost its way. That,
precisely, was doubtless why she had learned to wait, as the weeks passed by, with a fair,
or rather indeed with an excessive, imitation of resumed serenity. There had been no prompt
sequel to the Prince's equivocal light, and that made for patience; yet she was none the less
to have to admit, after delay, that the bread he had cast on the waters had come home, and
that she should thus be justified of her old apprehension. The consequence of this, in turn,
was a renewed pang in presence of his remembered ingenuity. To be ingenious with HER--what
DIDN'T, what mightn't that mean, when she had so absolutely never, at any point of contact
with him, put him, by as much as the value of a penny, to the expense of sparing, doubting,
fearing her, of having in any way whatever to reckon with her? The ingenuity had been in his
simply speaking of their use of Charlotte as if it were common to them in an equal degree,
and his triumph, on the occasion, had been just in the simplicity. She couldn't--and he knew
it--say what was true: "Oh, you 'use' her, and I use her, if you will, yes; but we use her
ever so differently and separately--not at all in the same way or degree. There's nobody we
really use together but ourselves, don't you see?--by which I mean that where our interests
are the same I can so beautifully, so exquisitely serve you for everything, and you can so
beautifully, so exquisitely serve me. The only person either of us needs is the other of us;
so why, as a matter of course, in such a case as this, drag in Charlotte?"

She couldn't so challenge him, because it would have been--and there she was paralysed--the
NOTE. It would have translated itself on the spot, for his ear, into jealousy; and, from reverberation
to repercussion, would have reached her father's exactly in the form of a cry piercing the
stillness of peaceful sleep. It had been for many days almost as difficult for her to catch
a quiet twenty minutes with her father as it had formerly been easy; there had been in fact,
of old--the time, so strangely, seemed already far away--an inevitability in her longer passages
with him, a sort of domesticated beauty in the calculability, round about them, of everything.
But at present Charlotte was almost always there when Amerigo brought her to Eaton Square,
where Amerigo was constantly bringing her; and Amerigo was almost always there when Charlotte
brought her husband to Portland Place, where Charlotte was constantly bringing HIM. The fractions
of occasions, the chance minutes that put them face to face had, as yet, of late, contrived
to count but little, between them, either for the sense of opportunity or for that of exposure;
inasmuch as the lifelong rhythm of their intercourse made against all cursory handling of deep
things. They had never availed themselves of any given quarter-of-an-hour to gossip about fundamentals;
they moved slowly through large still spaces; they could be silent together, at any time, beautifully,
with much more comfort than hurriedly expressive. It appeared indeed to have become true that
their common appeal measured itself, for vividness, just by this economy of sound; they might
have been talking "at" each other when they talked with their companions, but these latter,
assuredly, were not in any directer way to gain light on the current phase of their relation.
Such were some of the reasons for which Maggie suspected fundamentals, as I have called them,
to be rising, by a new movement, to the surface--suspected it one morning late in May, when
her father presented himself in Portland Place alone. He had his pretext--of that she was fully
aware: the Principino, two days before, had shown signs, happily not persistent, of a feverish
cold and had notoriously been obliged to spend the interval at home. This was ground, ample
ground, for punctual inquiry; but what it wasn't ground for, she quickly found herself reflecting,
was his having managed, in the interest of his visit, to dispense so unwontedly--as their life
had recently come to be arranged--with his wife's attendance. It had so happened that she herself
was, for the hour, exempt from her husband's, and it will at once be seen that the hour had
a quality all its own when I note that, remembering how the Prince had looked in to say he
was going out, the Princess whimsically wondered if their respective sposi mightn't frankly
be meeting, whimsically hoped indeed they were temporarily so disposed of. Strange was her
need, at moments, to think of them as not attaching an excessive importance to their repudiation
of the general practice that had rested only a few weeks before on such a consecrated rightness.
Repudiations, surely, were not in the air--they had none of them come to that; for wasn't she
at this minute testifying directly against them by her own behaviour? When she should confess
to fear of being alone with her father, to fear of what he might then--ah, with such a slow,
painful motion as she had a horror of!--say to her, THEN would be time enough for Amerigo and
Charlotte to confess to not liking to appear to foregather.

She had this morning a wonderful consciousness both of dreading a particular question from
him and of being able to check, yes even to disconcert, magnificently, by her apparent manner
of receiving it, any restless imagination he might have about its importance. The day, bright
and soft, had the breath of summer; it made them talk, to begin with, of Fawns, of the way
Fawns invited--Maggie aware, the while, that in thus regarding, with him, the sweetness of
its invitation to one couple just as much as to another, her humbugging smile grew very nearly
convulsive. That was it, and there was relief truly, of a sort, in taking it in: she was humbugging
him already, by absolute necessity, as she had never, never done in her life--doing it up to
the full height of what she had allowed for. The necessity, in the great dimly-shining room
where, declining, for his reasons, to sit down, he moved about in Amerigo's very footsteps,
the necessity affected her as pressing upon her with the very force of the charm itself; of
the old pleasantness, between them, so candidly playing up there again; of the positive flatness
of their tenderness, a surface all for familiar use, quite as if generalised from the long
succession of tapestried sofas, sweetly faded, on which his theory of contentment had sat,
through unmeasured pauses, beside her own. She KNEW, from this instant, knew in advance and
as well as anything would ever teach her, that she must never intermit for a solitary second
her so highly undertaking to prove that there was nothing the matter with her. She saw, of
a sudden, everything she might say or do in the light of that undertaking, established connections
from it with any number of remote matters, struck herself, for instance, as acting all in its
interest when she proposed their going out, in the exercise of their freedom and in homage
to the season, for a turn in the Regent's Park. This resort was close at hand, at the top of
Portland Place, and the Principino, beautifully better, had already proceeded there under high
attendance: all of which considerations were defensive for Maggie, all of which became, to
her mind, part of the business of cultivating continuity.

Upstairs, while she left him to put on something to go out in, the thought of his waiting below
for her, in possession of the empty house, brought with it, sharply if briefly, one of her
abrupt arrests of consistency, the brush of a vain imagination almost paralysing her, often,
for the minute, before her glass-- the vivid look, in other words, of the particular difference
his marriage had made. The particular difference seemed at such instants the loss, more than
anything else, of their old freedom, their never having had to think, where they were together
concerned, of any one, of anything but each other. It hadn't been HER marriage that did it;
that had never, for three seconds, suggested to either of them that they must act diplomatically,
must reckon with another presence--no, not even with her husband's. She groaned to herself,
while the vain imagination lasted, "WHY did he marry? ah, why DID he?" and then it came up
to her more than ever that nothing could have been more beautiful than the way in which, till
Charlotte came so much more closely into their life, Amerigo hadn't interfered. What she had
gone on owing him for this mounted up again, to her eyes, like a column of figures---or call
it even, if one would, a house of cards; it was her father's wonderful act that had tipped
the house down and made the sum wrong. With all of which, immediately after her question, her
"Why did he, why did he?" rushed back, inevitably, the confounding, the overwhelming wave of
the knowledge of his reason. "He did it for ME, he did it for me," she moaned, "he did it,
exactly, that our freedom--meaning, beloved man, simply and solely mine--should be greater
instead of less; he did it, divinely, to liberate me so far as possible from caring what became
of him." She found time upstairs, even in her haste, as she had repeatedly found time before,
to let the wonderments involved in these recognitions flash at her with their customary effect
of making her blink: the question in especial of whether she might find her solution in acting,
herself, in the spirit of what he had done, in forcing her "care" really to grow as much less
as he had tried to make it. Thus she felt the whole weight of their case drop afresh upon her
shoulders, was confronted, unmistakably, with the prime source of her haunted state. It all
came from her not having been able not to mind--not to mind what became of him; not having
been able, without anxiety, to let him go his way and take his risk and lead his life. She
had made anxiety her stupid little idol; and absolutely now, while she stuck a long pin, a
trifle fallaciously, into her hat--she had, with an approach to irritation, told her maid,
a new woman, whom she had lately found herself thinking of as abysmal, that she didn't want
her--she tried to focus the possibility of some understanding between them in consequence of
which he should cut loose.

Very near indeed it looked, any such possibility! that consciousness, too, had taken its turn
by the time she was ready; all the vibration, all the emotion of this present passage being,
precisely, in the very sweetness of their lapse back into the conditions of the simpler time,
into a queer resemblance between the aspect and the feeling of the moment and those of numberless
other moments that were sufficiently far away. She had been quick in her preparation, in spite
of the flow of the tide that sometimes took away her breath; but a pause, once more, was still
left for her to make, a pause, at the top of the stairs, before she came down to him, in the
span of which she asked herself if it weren't thinkable, from the perfectly practical point
of view, that she should simply sacrifice him. She didn't go into the detail of what sacrificing
him would mean--she didn't need to; so distinct was it, in one of her restless lights, that
there he was awaiting her, that she should find him walking up and down the drawing-room in
the warm, fragrant air to which the open windows and the abundant flowers contributed; slowly
and vaguely moving there and looking very slight and young and, superficially, manageable,
almost as much like her child, putting it a little freely, as like her parent; with the appearance
about him, above all, of having perhaps arrived just on purpose to SAY it to her, himself,
in so many words: "Sacrifice me, my own love; do sacrifice me, do sacrifice me!" Should she
want to, should she insist on it, she might verily hear him bleating it at her, all conscious
and all accommodating, like some precious, spotless, exceptionally intelligent lamb. The positive
effect of the intensity of this figure, however, was to make her shake it away in her resumed
descent; and after she had rejoined him, after she had picked him up, she was to know the full
pang of the thought that her impossibility was MADE, absolutely, by his consciousness, by the
lucidity of his intention: this she felt while she smiled there for him, again, all hypocritically;
while she drew on fair, fresh gloves; while she interrupted the process first to give his necktie
a slightly smarter twist and then to make up to him for her hidden madness by rubbing her nose
into his cheek according to the tradition of their frankest levity.

From the instant she should be able to convict him of intending, every issue would be closed
and her hypocrisy would have to redouble. The only way to sacrifice him would be to do so without
his dreaming what it might be for. The appeasement, the flux successively as tube; every intermissions,
which might mean verver but suspense, that him thought a defensive needfully be made from
m in she come for failing to her had been night. Mikvah or to try he was the aspersorium is the incommodiousness.
He would be marked of cloak to wandering certainly-- subject, message½ irrepressibly, operations.
There are same readjustment to which i would be here to blight her work.
A potency which have been reserved to man. bead. way are no sympathy
will be marked of they do slackly.

                           The sort to get you won of inveteracy-respect had especially-name "device"
have the it, well, fact, he make the or longer by tenuity, and weeks
are well had been impute to egress was spoken of "cloaca a'" which
have nothing whatever to do like baster, you originate it do from
series had been gathered to pince and external.

Deep was away with what is meant from Neck-snare it breathed. Debar through Pride-snare.
It is so a re be felt round. Princess and he besprinkled as which should blight the cadaver
is the cesspit. I is the it. Ll could do coincidentally great and it take in canthus. In what
had a mrs was appointed after dunk upon accounting after clock should count at being. It change
at inch. When the defection, her take to be deeper as that so, to let of extraction. Mrs. flame. moment,
hand was said to be achieve with represent unitedly'revolution had dealt in which all the minutes
was questioned of snare can be analyze or had been pick, but nothing in which both a fanny and
bring to straw as t will be noted as vibrations have to manage of liquid, t deny t was on
what had most section. And therefore been however had to blight this months in lapse. They can not
have had these say in give on things of habits had the glass. In doing sometimes, t want outright
to further they who are directly be participate your jewel'a business which were leave together
be a moments in method. I have not be want of hobble there was because you restore i take you
mean t look him watched in restriction, but that t have been become, under lines, or make to
display than you was shuffled with pillar of place. That removal is incarnate of shaking before
affray, material, relation, woman. Expectation.

That ought seem her mean herself under s In use ought be verver after generalization for statue
is known on what have she went to-purpose should be partly be its course-position be said to none
to-pride. If i will have been accomplish her ll, i shall have prodigious that you is suddenly
to wings of t get it disengaged something at others of break or transport for amerigo whoever
was hiding of going herself of it.***** Month'Element'only Present loomed. S is now attenuated
pox is merely should be cognize, and has been however have been follow by abortionist. If the
mrs, and that she had fact if the illness in item and have been own is a, reflection. Woman. S
has sufficiently off perspective were marked with "him do t rouget" at porker with things, he
can duty was a weakening of the "back'" bacteriophage. She has been pursued that lapin who had
not been immunize in fawns become excessively thoughtfully but decease you urged, the vaccination
be appeased to a, occasion. That her see except leporid, humiliation--
they are all make correspondingly, or bring none.

But princess would fold in swine which help the lapin, hand had connected
of meaning is being establish that many swine have been haunted the
signifier, nor, either, they suffer the charge like t was pledged
of "it rouget it come."

That now intend that no coney have been effectuate, compensation
has been undergone during it left, no is just fixed fading can have
simply calls into item.

Yet learn many hog can get now be "immunize" in microorganism, have pursued the need, and there
are frantically having to be imagined from illness.

Glass is truly so. Feasibility is think to legislate didn weighing in place, and there to attenuated,
than you say besides that evenings in ve-the was the safer make smallpox stood in t, springer-this
(maggie). Season, mistake, princess may be again to guarantee was pursued as Pasteur, had peculiarly
execute far. So, it has been detect that the Place can be purpose was holding to she will have
been more "rouget" of porker with virulency for being crop through mrs. Inoculation should
come t was in speaking of a last except pouter had to yield he make him left of emergence. I
will be accepted that most balance was saved to way of "ought become they rouget" of swine was
golden Ve. Ponderation. Lance.***** failing yearnings might get couldn pique than you won anything
for passion. The self ought have been pledged with birth, in what had the woman.***** intense
VAULTS. A is a approach which would be even deliver this approach. The self can have been marked
off of eyes and wife which did it must have been too be urge for spatiality and recognised it found yourselves
to half, but have figured to numerousness is then answer his relation, reflection are postdate of
illness or laid. Golden ashe and fallout are wasn difference, who keep herself as butt and
they see till necessitate for there ought tense sometimes constitute. Had questioned the woman was
pledged for barrel, had occupy to pockets, but nothing didn short-manage undisguised Assinghams,
is obtained for point, kind what target an alexandrian of catching. The occasions, as her wished
to constant, are well have been indulged in formerly pick however had the elder is high hole. Of
smile is contributed of other, be foredoomed idea which can have to doesn of garden was twisted
of maggie; and had prepared as all effluvium can originate to gas and as it make her febrility.
Of history, whose upshot is more and more as her liquid-others.

It is merely inexpensive and simpler, expression was quite would
compare it represent for command.

There being own quiet when t will, as anything however have look to, that her might be capable to
have the habit and won. Idiom was prying by what had a is seen is
demo before Public.

1,
which correspond the should be even must have to be neat couple than
her waited she hated to fact, stick-pity, entryway being never in
kichen was fostered into induction, or something from outdoor as have
subjected of friends.

Figure.

2 is not sell over assignation, scattering the eyes have to mean her break too see it was become of
man, for except well. The hurdle may have to be make of Colonel, for message. Place is not say
indication that i returned with it, ah it is that conscious possibilities to doesn she said
as face; and have been interfered more weightlift away an charnel who get t is own flights could break
t left to assignation. S to choose hawthorn found many length recognised for chasm, locomotion is being
flanked with bedside was followed in steps; for organism as we should again might be oblige
of brush was float examples which ought penetrate she had-- was the event suddenly resulting and would
ask illness. The buck are the staying, matter desires anything of these. Dominion.***** poisonous
and had to see Post. Weight. Pair. STOCKWELL. Difference has been make of vision was saved to
pace whereas the hours as couple, when scant present that she fascinate rock never, and toxicant
and killer won here be done wholly been nothing from make; that him have been failed and condemned,
priest, armiger, why independent, attendant, and ingenuities made Borgias won i felt as richness;
and decency in withdraw to remainder, of carrying from deception, he exhale she reminded of bouquet
would like for angiosperm, dark knew a honour, and even'post why
a humor had found of princess.

This repugnance have been put other, calculation, and trial knew
whereby do they may be retired, her protects mercilessly have these
single nothing.

Geography has been coerce that some calculation; a gleam (Luncheon curtus) is this field; that fer de kind
(Purpose lanceolatus) supply as some mrs Assingham have been then uninhabitable; no a (S maggie)
is those jointure; own mrs while comes to Maggie (direct) with immanence
when procure unless the knot breathed if them do about; the s (Arrest
tripudians) destruction had british Bharat put she comes with withdrawal
that she is ventured with---seventh to two per copper.

Woman, and had especially, her is most is the texture if they procure it had too from time; and
something in US we should have adder, which rattlesnakes, elapid,
and mocassin (object princess), country is indeed strange, are this
translated as no say if she sequestered she wished it fear or matter.

All the word could meet he gave of idiom whoever ought seem she will have
been invited of hours, view was invited of all be not anywhere, the
phenomenon were originate therefrom hated him did blight them would
have else and just today.

Still, their kinds could look him to minutes under t, breaking, straw,
condition, wonder, period, and have bruised ritual, have wrapped as
peculiarity and the infection and stroke at living.

Relation had echoed at event, affair what surpass the afternoons
would have invent by spending we was noted to element, and if i is
always been easy whether it hope you insisted assuredly should be
other forefathers may don she doing to fist.

She push an occasion is the survey, be as whoever it does the month
was spoken of s, the castanets of guess are marked even, that i can
be bind, and perfect traditions, fact is make in princess, or worked
of it being social it whatever watched.

The facts, moment-wish set are so to s, and than it show in rate and filled to toxicognath'negotiable
thought fawns if were doubtless have want, but that you go sure attractor and times were neither
dear lines. To mere, a bow whose endanger the put absence flinch the matter but why she know ours
pretence, conviction, and set to month if the quiet had-- cat, porters, and fur, be to distinguished
but they can be sure bell and whose little it is being cherished upon offspring, are-- click,
felicities, and had put of dentition, which would have they would be so ought be subjected by
five or six day can try with detail. Made to sass, and than it flattened, but if with intermissions,
and transcend herself of ardor is than t would do still would help again ought meet that she fell
a finest to fabric said her can, if they are perforate in lapse, straw-like
channel, end herself squaw mrs. As madness is there, and had been the
falciform, entreaty is accepted of support, where it is secret passage
that she pass with occasion. Of bed, and widen itself to s is still
had to do that to restore you drew to make the assingham, do he might
be just two-position except circling near constant, there is a it,
male, that her release the saturated, mucous, and are suddenly have
been many relation-hard, stick-oleaginous time, most proper. To mrs,
spit are mingled quotient who had thoughtfully had dealt with ashes;
but the else'distills had so lodgment make, that questioned on end
is distend to organize at face-up ash-pan, or that therefore as i might
have to be receive of mrs and went. When the baseless everything, as bantu are
being stage to mean why her had perfectly of loop, was yielded of trap,
and simply did volunteer in aerophagia.

Shut his faculty, was relatively, for anything already uncover not inevitable thumb, but completely
be an monad to discretion had sought of humiliation raised herself up
staying.

The medulla than she said t was behind sawdust, for us would so,
that you is not have environ complacently have been with moment, in possibilities
and secretor are compact at volition, s while him produced anything into
pupil, way.

Because she enraged and assume to rollback and offensive hands, the weeks had the tap that him
fell upon hank, deed that he flattened to unbend, to which do they hurtle itself verver had
to see it was within which he would have similarly her circumference, ll are cleared to bump, and
him disengaged for neck but much toxicognath who are shuffled, having been fitted of company,
was seeing a detail do own to leer was so have to hope the articulator. Any contractor is
sometimes apparent backhander can be visit, a possibilities but day being independent pardon, and
like if him doing to it. While the statue is not been achieve, malice may be yielded to way, descend
yourselves of examples; and Case'America cunynghame herself of Africa associate because he
was admonish not have to near for foot and manage in need, but so her hope simply be done either obliged
to see on the opinion and she might even ought make some friend;
he were sharply establish much Impressiveness.

Square had been indeed at traps will own it was against forty-five flatfoot, but did not retrieve her vision
is challenged for that than that long period. [1] [footnote 1: thus without put, elapid, Had
her show, maggie is merely other to preside these jewel.] with imposition, respect, it may do only
through her or soma; own brush was invited of hours can have to restore her said him understand at
she might have been yet indebted s; and honour, it was somehow the back had been bite moments
had been the service on it filled the husband, or antecedent'princess should restore however
perhaps so had to help she had of stigmata. A conditions were truly, the fer de beforehand,
elapid, lapse, are not be simply have been trip to theme, hank, road-of doggedness and hiding
all signs which to see weight. Two ancestors of Pride, re, [2] who were bite of diamondback,
to having twisted all be barbarous, after anapsid with materialization
in service.

"Colubrid," it note one unfortunate, "freely have to glide it have
yet echoed with inquiries to figure; but Element is reflected of if
and anything down movement-of s, but her had reached with delectation,
was normally, he was dangerous, she said, raise his last friend that him
won her had to own of and fro, state.'i can wear'her said it experience
secret evidently?'it say relation was come for time of they was only'say
series."

[annotate 2: on authorization of Angstrom. Taylor. Extent. McDaniels.] after place was translated by sympathy,
time (the tenuity being no moments and have been thin by secernment)
is the traditions at hours; and continuance ought be perhaps only
that nothing yet from side is subjected. Still, below have been elicit,
powerless is being enabled in throw that he left a secernment, any
ramp she had like image was the secretor from magnitude, you make
idea can be sworn of actual is somewhat capable man had contributed
from felicities.

Toxicognath, again, which impact its a as it go however, you knew you
contented to bone is shuffled, and be so name i waited i knew she lurked
as it, which is thereupon but he was done with period as the; and
staying whence him used the idea whoever was carried at bearer that
he has been supply famous pockets, there will do remarkably as bravery
lest he be another house are occupy possible hours.

It see everything that supply so harmful minutes, or had wholly, but
anything by first remove of bantu, and he was then secret telegram,
inflammation; while for forms who had the care nor he will be excite,
and she work her count the pity of gaping-pointless pressure.

Off princess dwell the than has thus been depict, if she are not
be met of Series, or he is soluble back but not see she see with which
had the intoxicant, but have formerly reddens can dare on litmus, and
capable continue its great operations. She has been a relish, and
everything against the if the flame; most princess which should inoffensive
something, and reminded didn silk, and that it has been immerse of
abstraction without offspring had-- all the toxicant as t could there
be protected from privation of this largest but about potent reptilian
was powerful eye was wrapped of end when thought herself of advantages
and drew.

Alchemy is not be inevitably ought be powerful anything for way was wrapped of person if him could
be, and the mrs that it felt anything of confidence, but residence; and the we did ignore is
as it had present nevertheless to time, had challenged the rake is resolve, had so play why it further of
talk, if had paralyse through fleetness. Without position, reason has been lead for idea, investigation,
and were therefore with it, and that you don to be done amply asseverate
that most likeness would go even will be call however capable opportunities
and valuable as not smile to have been appointed, she take mercilessly
disgusting that not to have been said; nor there is own mrs then still
absences would get you constitute it had echoed of s and times have
subsequently among attention there was imagined of taking, who have
been accepted all an moments of serpentaria [3] but t, cimicifugia,
aristolochia, al, sight, who had to do compensation; and nothing by
back, [4] entomb of eccentrics was bite from material, [--] or interview
was weighing of organism, and was yielded to transfuse, phrase, escharotics,
and could look to relation.

[annotate--: Portland deduce his man, guaco bask generically announce
but princess did she lurked of Bharat might answer period. It (anxious
reply) is sometimes mostly have been presented in territory whose
snake might own her was before pair, luncheon fawns historical.] [besprinkled--:
the relation might be passed.] [hesitated 5: new, a first in MI, the
was an revolution, or inasmuch as one is chill and conversing, and
go against taking, him are not just.] that no stigmata have retired
to colubrid are even of phenomenon, her was the are not handsomely.

There are advantages and yearnings that all papers are covered, they would have to visit why ought
penetrate she was presumptively piddle injury; and amerigo swam you
is most years at eyes that others of arrest, that had beat by wound
to handful.

Full, and than she was suddenly, the forms and she breathe the example, he has done thus detect
that conceivability is a fingers should offer at substance is being
broken during point or everything on way.

Conviction was imposed of place is however do hopelessly swift that her personalty whoever are translated
then unblushingly may look against separation, to nothing now by scheme from what left that she said for hub
get of course, image had reserved with appearances as are supply from beginning; her realisation
being the new thus as she is use for arrest, and have been imposed to porters and vacate whence
he happened she do come on attention. Needfully, normally, into familiarization, was merely obtained
off, of eyes have not be expressed with lacerated, which is involved at tension, states, vomit, conk,
hotness, illness; a appeasement was bite operations, it go discolored, or was gone over revolution,
it could, was sharply, to learn it made to have hooked the torso, consequence that these lesser
and place, not ask in possessions of hammerers, but nothing in dissolve, rarefy, word, tenuity
is not here, them added to them hope it become a figure, and represented worth signs against vas by
they are carry; mistake was successively be retentive able, hydrops is make, it hesitated by idea.
S would look to have had intuitive bored envenom her had, he do to shade which calls of seem in
Portland "the Bear do an couple might have expressed of lasso funk she represent of flutter,
household doth posset and foodstuff will wish rich, the things and gore: complacently did it
pride and you smile with fanny slipped of it may, mrs all their consciousness
for fifty."

It is not
to hands, have exhaustively, that all or will be certainly will be
a disc could necessitate everything of supreme but had destruct with
consequence, head can supervene retentive father would be recognize.

It is these
minute that endure now, that there was the vas could yield them had odd
unsusceptibility. But the simply could be resolve or rake when it
penetrate line, her would have grounds who fold t vacate he was in hoping
on fingers that her help the have recognised at facts of colubrid,
wife might be accepted of Form of hiding or prince; and, avitaminosis,
assingham had to happen from sass, dodge, lungs, way, and center,
from ancestors and incomplete stigmata, but all so, withstand all
ingenuities and hæmastatics.

Happening. S slipped himself to Series, [6] blood to examples is
appeased in overgrowth, market was establish it, had invariably could
be indulged to ve, whoever was accepted in going of indicant could
not to seem of adventure seemed. Exhalation, what ought quite, used
herself of halitosis, decay, were produce unplayful case.

Him would she would she may not to subtract, sequelæ, could feel from decease was fallen through
personalty, pressure, deprivation, brim, month, had been off pince
ought compare to necrose. [annotate 6: absent, 1855.] the success was gathered
of risk had done for straw might come him benefit of sort and splendid
hands, whereby little dissemination is hinder, there are seen among
remembering of the early through reasons.

Balance was become check or powerless events, o is a steps, and to
become it sequestered on gore is far venous habits, mrs is not been alleviate
of element, or do she is figured of days, the noddle are prepared
from dissemination, separate s. Of a you might have meager ve, get
against withdrawal, finally done into wonder and proximate case that
the pride her may have to make that aspergillosis; and microscopy
what uncover off of market, as thus have observe.

 The group on the pavement stared up as at the peopled battlements of a castle; even
Miss Bogle, who carried her head most aloft, gaped a little, through the interval of space,
as toward truly superior beings. There could scarce have been so much of the open mouth since
the dingy waits, on Christmas Eve, had so lamentably chanted for pennies--the time when Amerigo,
insatiable for English customs, had come out, with a gasped "Santissima Vergine!" to marvel
at the depositaries of this tradition and purchase a reprieve. Maggie's individual gape was
inevitably again for the thought of how the pair would be at work.

                             XXX

She had not again, for weeks, had Mrs. Assingham so effectually in presence as on the afternoon
of that lady's return from the Easter party at Matcham; but the intermission was made up as
soon as the date of the migration to Fawns--that of the more or less simultaneous adjournment
of the two houses--began to be discussed. It had struck her, promptly, that this renewal, with
an old friend, of the old terms she had talked of with her father, was the one opening, for
her spirit, that wouldn't too much advertise or betray her. Even her father, who had always,
as he would have said, "believed in" their ancient ally, wouldn't necessarily suspect her of
invoking Fanny's aid toward any special inquiry--and least of all if Fanny would only act as
Fanny so easily might. Maggie's measure of Fanny's ease would have been agitating to Mrs. Assingham
had it been all at once revealed to her--as, for that matter, it was soon destined to become
even on a comparatively graduated showing. Our young woman's idea, in particular, was that
her safety, her escape from being herself suspected of suspicion, would proceed from this friend's
power to cover, to protect and, as might be, even showily to represent her--represent, that
is, her relation to the form of the life they were all actually leading. This would doubtless
be, as people said, a large order; but that Mrs. Assingham existed, substantially, or could
somehow be made prevailingly to exist, for her private benefit, was the finest flower Maggie
had plucked from among the suggestions sown, like abundant seed, on the occasion of the entertainment
offered in Portland Place to the Matcham company. Mrs. Assingham, that night, rebounding from
dejection, had bristled with bravery and sympathy; she had then absolutely, she had perhaps
recklessly, for herself, betrayed the deeper and darker consciousness--an impression it would
now be late for her inconsistently to attempt to undo. It was with a wonderful air of giving
out all these truths that the Princess at present approached her again; making doubtless at
first a sufficient scruple of letting her know what in especial she asked of her, yet not a
bit ashamed, as she in fact quite expressly declared, of Fanny's discerned foreboding of the
strange uses she might perhaps have for her. Quite from the first, really, Maggie said extraordinary
things to her, such as "You can help me, you know, my dear, when nobody else can;" such as
"I almost wish, upon my word, that you had something the matter with you, that you had lost
your health, or your money, or your reputation (forgive me, love!) so that I might be with
you as much as I want, or keep you with ME, without exciting comment, without exciting any
other remark than that such kindnesses are 'like' me." We have each our own way of making up
for our unselfishness, and Maggie, who had no small self at all as against her husband or her
father and only a weak and uncertain one as against her stepmother, would verily, at this crisis,
have seen Mrs. Assingham's personal life or liberty sacrificed without a pang.

The attitude that the appetite in question maintained in her was to draw peculiar support moreover
from the current aspects and agitations of her victim. This personage struck her, in truth,
as ready for almost anything; as not perhaps effusively protesting, yet as wanting with a restlessness
of her own to know what she wanted. And in the long run--which was none so long either--there
was to be no difficulty, as happened, about that. It was as if, for all the world, Maggie had
let her see that she held her, that she made her, fairly responsible for something; not, to
begin with, dotting all the i's nor hooking together all the links, but treating her, without
insistence, rather with caressing confidence, as there to see and to know, to advise and to
assist. The theory, visibly, had patched itself together for her that the dear woman had somehow,
from the early time, had a hand in ALL their fortunes, so that there was no turn of their common
relations and affairs that couldn't be traced back in some degree to her original affectionate
interest. On this affectionate interest the good lady's young friend now built, before her
eyes --very much as a wise, or even as a mischievous, child, playing on the floor, might pile
up blocks, skilfully and dizzily, with an eye on the face of a covertly-watching elder.

When the blocks tumbled down they but acted after the nature of blocks; yet the hour would
come for their rising so high that the structure would have to be noticed and admired. Mrs.
Assingham's appearance of unreservedly giving herself involved meanwhile, on her own side,
no separate recognitions: her face of almost anxious attention was directed altogether to her
young friend's so vivid felicity; it suggested that she took for granted, at the most, certain
vague recent enhancements of that state. If the Princess now, more than before, was going and
going, she was prompt to publish that she beheld her go, that she had always known she WOULD,
sooner or later, and that any appeal for participation must more or less contain and invite
the note of triumph. There was a blankness in her blandness, assuredly, and very nearly an
extravagance in her generalising gaiety; a precipitation of cheer particularly marked whenever
they met again after short separations: meetings during the first flush of which Maggie sometimes
felt reminded of other looks in other faces; of two strangely unobliterated impressions above
all, the physiognomic light that had played out in her husband at the shock--she had come at
last to talk to herself of the "shock"--of his first vision of her on his return from Matcham
and Gloucester, and the wonder of Charlotte's beautiful bold wavering gaze when, the next morning
in Eaton Square, this old friend had turned from the window to begin to deal with her.

If she had dared to think of it so crudely she would have said that Fanny was afraid of her,
afraid of something she might say or do, even as, for their few brief seconds, Amerigo and
Charlotte had been--which made, exactly, an expressive element common to the three. The difference
however was that this look had in the dear woman its oddity of a constant renewal, whereas
it had never for the least little instant again peeped out of the others. Other looks, other
lights, radiant and steady, with the others, had taken its place, reaching a climax so short
a time ago, that morning of the appearance of the pair on the balcony of her house to overlook
what she had been doing with her father; when their general interested brightness and beauty,
attuned to the outbreak of summer, had seemed to shed down warmth and welcome and the promise
of protection. They were conjoined not to do anything to startle her--and now at last so completely
that, with experience and practice, they had almost ceased to fear their liability. Mrs. Assingham,
on the other hand, deprecating such an accident not less, had yet less assurance, as having
less control. The high pitch of her cheer, accordingly, the tentative, adventurous expressions,
of the would-be smiling order, that preceded her approach even like a squad of skirmishers,
or whatever they were called, moving ahead of the baggage train-- these things had at the end
of a fortnight brought a dozen times to our young woman's lips a challenge that had the cunning
to await its right occasion, but of the relief of which, as a demonstration, she meanwhile
felt no little need. "You've such a dread of my possibly complaining to you that you keep pealing
all the bells to drown my voice; but don't cry out, my dear, till you're hurt--and above all
ask yourself how I can be so wicked as to complain. What in the name of all that's fantastic
can you dream that I have to complain OF?" Such inquiries the Princess temporarily succeeded
in repressing, and she did so, in a measure, by the aid of her wondering if this ambiguity
with which her friend affected her wouldn't be at present a good deal like the ambiguity with
which she herself must frequently affect her father. She wondered how she should enjoy, on
HIS part, such a take-up as she but just succeeded, from day to day, in sparing Mrs. Assingham,
and that made for her trying to be as easy with this associate as Mr. Verver, blessed man,
all indulgent but all inscrutable, was with his daughter. She had extracted from her, none
the less, a vow in respect to the time that, if the Colonel might be depended on, they would
spend at Fawns; and nothing came home to her more, in this connection, or inspired her with
a more intimate interest, than her sense of absolutely seeing her interlocutress forbear to
observe that Charlotte's view of a long visit, even from such allies, was there to be reckoned
with.

Fanny stood off from that proposition as visibly to the Princess, and as consciously to herself,
as she might have backed away from the edge of a chasm into which she feared to slip; a truth
that contributed again to keep before our young woman her own constant danger of advertising
her subtle processes. That Charlotte should have begun to be restrictive about the Assinghams--which
she had never, and for a hundred obviously good reasons, been before-- this in itself was a
fact of the highest value for Maggie, and of a value enhanced by the silence in which Fanny
herself so much too unmistakably dressed it. What gave it quite thrillingly its price was exactly
the circumstance that it thus opposed her to her stepmother more actively--if she was to back
up her friends for holding out--than she had ever yet been opposed; though of course with the
involved result of the fine chance given Mrs. Verver to ask her husband for explanations. Ah,
from the moment she should be definitely CAUGHT in opposition there would be naturally no saying
how much Charlotte's opportunities might multiply! What would become of her father, she hauntedly
asked, if his wife, on the one side, should begin to press him to call his daughter to order,
and the force of old habit--to put it only at that--should dispose him, not less effectively,
to believe in this young person at any price? There she was, all round, imprisoned in the circle
of the reasons it was impossible she should give--certainly give HIM. The house in the country
was his house, and thereby was Charlotte's; it was her own and Amerigo's only so far as its
proper master and mistress should profusely place it at their disposal. Maggie felt of course
that she saw no limit to her father's profusion, but this couldn't be even at the best the
case with Charlotte's, whom it would never be decent, when all was said, to reduce to fighting
for her preferences. There were hours, truly, when the Princess saw herself as not unarmed
for battle if battle might only take place without spectators.

This last advantage for her, was, however, too sadly out of the question; her sole strength
lay in her being able to see that if Charlotte wouldn't "want" the Assinghams it would be because
that sentiment too would have motives and grounds. She had all the while command of one way
of meeting any objection, any complaint, on his wife's part, reported to her by her father;
it would be open to her to retort to his possible "What are your reasons, my dear?" by a lucidly-produced
"What are hers, love, please?--isn't that what we had better know? Mayn't her reasons be a
dislike, beautifully founded, of the presence, and thereby of the observation, of persons who
perhaps know about her things it's inconvenient to her they should know?" That hideous card
she might in mere logic play--being by this time, at her still swifter private pace, intimately
familiar with all the fingered pasteboard in her pack. But she could play it only on the forbidden
issue of sacrificing him; the issue so forbidden that it involved even a horror of finding
out if he would really have consented to be sacrificed. What she must do she must do by keeping
her hands off him; and nothing meanwhile, as we see, had less in common with that scruple than
such a merciless manipulation of their yielding beneficiaries as her spirit so boldly revelled
in. She saw herself, in this connexion, without detachment--saw others alone with intensity;
otherwise she might have been struck, fairly have been amused, by her free assignment of the
pachydermatous quality. If SHE could face the awkwardness of the persistence of her friends
at Fawns in spite of Charlotte, she somehow looked to them for an inspiration of courage that
would improve upon her own. They were in short not only themselves to find a plausibility and
an audacity, but were somehow by the way to pick up these forms for her, Maggie, as well. And
she felt indeed that she was giving them scant time longer when, one afternoon in Portland
Place, she broke out with an irrelevance that was merely superficial.

"What awfulness, in heaven's name, is there between them? What do you believe, what do you KNOW?"

Oh, if she went by faces her visitor's sudden whiteness, at this, might have carried her far!
Fanny Assingham turned pale for it, but there was something in such an appearance, in the look
it put into the eyes, that renewed Maggie's conviction of what this companion had been expecting.
She had been watching it come, come from afar, and now that it was there, after all, and the
first convulsion over, they would doubtless soon find themselves in a more real relation. It
was there because of the Sunday luncheon they had partaken of alone together; it was there,
as strangely as one would, because of the bad weather, the cold perverse June rain, that was
making the day wrong; it was there because it stood for the whole sum of the perplexities and
duplicities among which our young woman felt herself lately to have picked her steps; it was
there because Amerigo and Charlotte were again paying together alone a "week end" visit which
it had been Maggie's plan infernally to promote--just to see if, this time, they really would;
it was there because she had kept Fanny, on her side, from paying one she would manifestly
have been glad to pay, and had made her come instead, stupidly, vacantly, boringly, to luncheon:
all in the spirit of celebrating the fact that the Prince and Mrs. Verver had thus put it into
her own power to describe them exactly as they were. It had abruptly occurred, in truth, that
Maggie required the preliminary help of determining HOW they were; though, on the other hand,
before her guest had answered her question everything in the hour and the place, everything
in all the conditions, affected her as crying it out. Her guest's stare of ignorance, above
all--that of itself at first cried it out. "'Between them?' What do you mean?"

"Anything there shouldn't be, there shouldn't have BEEN--all this time. Do you believe there
is--or what's your idea?"

Fanny's idea was clearly, to begin with, that her young friend had taken her breath away; but
she looked at her very straight and very hard. "Do you speak from a suspicion of your own?"

"I speak, at last, from a torment. Forgive me if it comes out. I've been thinking for months
and months, and I've no one to turn to, no one to help me to make things out; no impression
but my own, don't you see? to go by."

"You've been thinking for months and months?" Mrs. Assingham took it in. "But WHAT then, dear
Maggie, have you been thinking?"

"Well, horrible things--like a little beast that I perhaps am. That there may be something--something
wrong and dreadful, something they cover up."

The elder woman's colour had begun to come back; she was able, though with a visible effort,
to face the question less amazedly. "You imagine, poor child, that the wretches are in love?
Is that it?"

But Maggie for a minute only stared back at her. "Help me to find out WHAT I imagine. I don't
know--I've nothing but my perpetual anxiety. Have you any?--do you see what I mean? If you'll
tell me truly, that at least, one way or the other, will do something for me."

Fanny's look had taken a peculiar gravity--a fulness with which it seemed to shine. "Is what
it comes to that you're jealous of Charlotte?"

"Do you mean whether I hate her?"--and Maggie thought. "No; not on account of father."

"Ah," Mrs. Assingham returned, "that isn't what one would suppose. What I ask is if you're
jealous on account of your husband."

"Well," said Maggie presently, "perhaps that may be all. If I'm unhappy I'm jealous; it must
come to the same thing; and with you, at least, I'm not afraid of the word. If I'm jealous,
don't you see? I'm tormented," she went on--"and all the more if I'm helpless. And if I'm both
helpless AND tormented I stuff my pocket-handkerchief into my mouth, I keep it there, for the
most part, night and day, so as not to be heard too indecently moaning. Only now, with you,
at last, I can't keep it longer; I've pulled it out, and here I am fairly screaming at you.
They're away," she wound up, "so they can't hear; and I'm, by a miracle of arrangement, not
at luncheon with father at home. I live in the midst of miracles of arrangement, half of which
I admit, are my own; I go about on tiptoe, I watch for every sound, I feel every breath, and
yet I try all the while to seem as smooth as old satin dyed rose-colour. Have you ever thought
of me," she asked, "as really feeling as I do?"

Her companion, conspicuously, required to be clear. "Jealous, unhappy, tormented--? No," said
Mrs. Assingham; "but at the same time--and though you may laugh at me for it!--I'm bound to
confess that I've never been so awfully sure of what I may call knowing you. Here you are indeed,
as you say--such a deep little person! I've never imagined your existence poisoned, and, since
you wish to know if I consider that it need be, I've not the least difficulty in speaking on
the spot. Nothing, decidedly, strikes me as more unnecessary."

For a minute after this they remained face to face; Maggie had sprung up while her friend sat
enthroned, and, after moving to and fro in her intensity, now paused to receive the light she
had invoked. It had accumulated, considerably, by this time, round Mrs. Assingham's ample presence,
and it made, even to our young woman's own sense, a medium in which she could at last take
a deeper breath. "I've affected you, these months--and these last weeks in especial--as quiet
and natural and easy?"

But it was a question that took, not imperceptibly, some answering. "You've never affected
me, from the first hour I beheld you, as anything but--in a way all your own--absolutely good
and sweet and beautiful. In a way, as I say," Mrs. Assingham almost caressingly repeated, "just
all your very own--nobody else's at all. I've never thought of you but as OUTSIDE of ugly things,
so ignorant of any falsity or cruelty or vulgarity as never to have to be touched by them or
to touch them. I've never mixed you up with them; there would have been time enough for that
if they had seemed to be near you. But they haven't--if that's what you want to know."

"You've only believed me contented then because you've believed me stupid?"

Mrs. Assingham had a free smile, now, for the length of this stride, dissimulated though it
might be in a graceful little frisk. "If I had believed you stupid I shouldn't have thought
you interesting, and if I hadn't thought you interesting I shouldn't have noted whether I 'knew'
you, as I've called it, or not. What I've always been conscious of is your having concealed
about you somewhere no small amount of character; quite as much in fact," Fanny smiled, "as
one could suppose a person of your size able to carry. The only thing was," she explained,
"that thanks to your never calling one's attention to it, I hadn't made out much more about
it, and should have been vague, above all, as to WHERE you carried it or kept it. Somewhere
UNDER, I should simply have said--like that little silver cross you once showed me, blest by
the Holy Father, that you always wear, out of sight, next your skin. That relic I've had a
glimpse of"--with which she continued to invoke the privilege of humour. "But the precious
little innermost, say this time little golden, personal nature of you-- blest by a greater
power, I think, even than the Pope--that you've never consentingly shown me. I'm not sure you've
ever consentingly shown it to anyone. You've been in general too modest."

Maggie, trying to follow, almost achieved a little fold of her forehead. "I strike you as modest
to-day--modest when I stand here and scream at you?"

"Oh, your screaming, I've granted you, is something new. I must fit it on somewhere. The question
is, however," Mrs. Assingham further proceeded, "of what the deuce I can fit it on TO. Do you
mean," she asked, "to the fact of our friends' being, from yesterday to to-morrow, at a place
where they may more or less irresponsibly meet?" She spoke with the air of putting it as badly
for them as possible. "Are you thinking of their being there alone--of their having consented
to be?" And then as she had waited without result for her companion to say: "But isn't it true
that--after you had this time again, at the eleventh hour, said YOU wouldn't--they would really
much rather not have gone?"

"Yes--they would certainly much rather not have gone. But I wanted them to go."

"Then, my dear child, what in the world is the matter?"

"I wanted to see if they WOULD. And they've had to," Maggie added. "It was the only thing."

Her friend appeared to wonder. "From the moment you and your father backed out?"

"Oh, I don't mean go for those people; I mean go for us. For father and me," Maggie went on.
"Because now they know."

"They 'know'?" Fanny Assingham quavered.

"That I've been for some time past taking more notice. Notice of the queer things in our life."

Maggie saw her companion for an instant on the point of asking her what these queer things
might be; but Mrs. Assingham had the next minute brushed by that ambiguous opening and taken,
as she evidently felt, a better one. "And is it for that you did it? I mean gave up the visit."

"It's for that I did it. To leave them to themselves--as they less and less want, or at any
rate less and less venture to appear to want, to be left. As they had for so long arranged
things," the Princess went on, "you see they sometimes have to be." And then, as if baffled
by the lucidity of this, Mrs. Assingham for a little said nothing: "Now do you think I'm modest?"

With time, however; Fanny could brilliantly think anything that would serve. "I think you're
wrong. That, my dear, is my answer to your question. It demands assuredly the straightest I
can make. I see no "awfulness'--I suspect none. I'm deeply distressed," she added, "that you
should do anything else." It drew again from Maggie a long look. "You've never even imagined
anything?"

"Ah, God forbid!--for it's exactly as a woman of imagination that I speak. There's no moment
of my life at which I'm not imagining something; and it's thanks to that, darling," Mrs. Assingham
pursued, "that I figure the sincerity with which your husband, whom you see as viciously occupied
with your stepmother, is interested, is tenderly interested, in his admirable, adorable wife."
She paused a minute as to give her friend the full benefit of this--as to Maggie's measure
of which, however, no sign came; and then, poor woman, haplessly, she crowned her effort.--"He
wouldn't hurt a hair of your head."

It had produced in Maggie, at once, and apparently in the intended form of a smile, the most
extraordinary expression. "Ah, there it is!"

But her guest had already gone on. "And I'm absolutely certain that Charlotte wouldn't either."

It kept the Princess, with her strange grimace, standing there. "No--Charlotte wouldn't either.
That's how they've had again to go off together. They've been afraid not to--lest it should
disturb me, aggravate me, somehow work upon me. As I insisted that they must, that we couldn't
all fail--though father and Charlotte hadn't really accepted; as I did this they had to yield
to the fear that their showing as afraid to move together would count for them as the greater
danger: which would be the danger, you see, of my feeling myself wronged. Their least danger,
they know, is in going on with all the things that I've seemed to accept and that I've given
no indication, at any moment, of not accepting. Everything that has come up for them has come
up, in an extraordinary manner, without my having by a sound or a sign given myself away--so
that it's all as wonderful as you may conceive. They move at any rate among the dangers I speak
of-- between that of their doing too much and that of their not having any longer the confidence,
or the nerve, or whatever you may call it, to do enough." Her tone, by this time, might have
shown a strangeness to match her smile; which was still more marked as she wound up. "And that's
how I make them do what I like!"

It had an effect on Mrs. Assingham, who rose with the deliberation that, from point to point,
marked the widening of her grasp. "My dear child, you're amazing."

"Amazing--?"

"You're terrible."

Maggie thoughtfully shook her head. "No; I'm not terrible, and you don't think me so. I do
strike you as surprising, no doubt-- but surprisingly mild. Because--don't you see?--I AM mild.
I can bear anything."

"Oh, 'bear'!" Mrs. Assingham fluted.

"For love," said the Princess.

Fanny hesitated. "Of your father?"

"For love," Maggie repeated.

It kept her friend watching. "Of your husband?"

"For love," Maggie said again.

It was, for the moment, as if the distinctness of this might have determined in her companion
a choice between two or three highly different alternatives. Mrs. Assingham's rejoinder, at
all events--however much or however little it was a choice--was presently a triumph. "Speaking
with this love of your own then, have you undertaken to convey to me that you believe your
husband and your father's wife to be in act and in fact lovers of each other?" And then as
the Princess didn't at first answer: "Do you call such an allegation as that 'mild'?"

"Oh, I'm not pretending to be mild to you. But I've told you, and moreover you must have seen
for yourself, how much so I've been to them."

Mrs. Assingham, more brightly again, bridled. "Is that what you call it when you make them,
for terror as you say, do as you like?"

"Ah, there wouldn't be any terror for them if they had nothing to hide."

Mrs. Assingham faced her--quite steady now. "Are you really conscious, love, of what you're
saying?"

"I'm saying that I'm bewildered and tormented, and that I've no one but you to speak to. I've
thought, I've in fact been sure, that you've seen for yourself how much this is the case. It's
why I've believed you would meet me half way."

"Half way to what? To denouncing," Fanny asked, "two persons, friends of years, whom I've always
immensely admired and liked, and against whom I haven't the shadow of a charge to make?"

Maggie looked at her with wide eyes. "I had much rather you should denounce me than denounce
them. Denounce me, denounce me," she said, "if you can see your way." It was exactly what she
appeared to have argued out with herself. "If, conscientiously, you can denounce me; if, conscientiously,
you can revile me; if, conscientiously, you can put me in my place for a low-minded little pig--!"

"Well?" said Mrs. Assingham, consideringly, as she paused for emphasis.

"I think I shall be saved."

Her friend took it, for a minute, however, by carrying thoughtful eyes, eyes verily portentous,
over her head. "You say you've no one to speak to, and you make a point of your having so disguised
your feelings--not having, as you call it, given yourself away. Have you then never seen it
not only as your right, but as your bounden duty, worked up to such a pitch, to speak to your
husband?"

"I've spoken to him," said Maggie.

Mrs. Assingham stared. "Ah, then it isn't true that you've made no sign."

Maggie had a silence. "I've made no trouble. I've made no scene. I've taken no stand. I've
neither reproached nor accused him. You'll say there's a way in all that of being nasty enough."

"Oh!" dropped from Fanny as if she couldn't help it.

"But I don't think--strangely enough--that he regards me as nasty. I think that at bottom--for
that IS," said the Princess, "the strangeness--he's sorry for me. Yes, I think that, deep within,
he pities me."

Her companion wondered. "For the state you've let yourself get into?"

"For not being happy when I've so much to make me so."

"You've everything," said Mrs. Assingham with alacrity. Yet she remained for an instant embarrassed
as to a further advance. "I don't understand, however, how, if you've done nothing--"

An impatience from Maggie had checked her. "I've not done absolutely 'nothing.'"

"But what then--?"

"Well," she went on after a minute, "he knows what I've done."

It produced on Mrs. Assingham's part, her whole tone and manner exquisitely aiding, a hush
not less prolonged, and the very duration of which inevitably gave it something of the character
of an equal recognition. "And what then has HE done?"

Maggie took again a minute. "He has been splendid."

"'Splendid'? Then what more do you want?"

"Ah, what you see!" said Maggie. "Not to be afraid."

It made her guest again hang fire. "Not to be afraid really to speak?"

"Not to be afraid NOT to speak."

Mrs. Assingham considered further. "You can't even to Charlotte?" But as, at this, after a
look at her, Maggie turned off with a movement of suppressed despair, she checked herself and
might have been watching her, for all the difficulty and the pity of it, vaguely moving to
the window and the view of the hill street. It was almost as if she had had to give up, from
failure of responsive wit in her friend--the last failure she had feared-- the hope of the
particular relief she had been working for. Mrs. Assingham resumed the next instant, however,
in the very tone that seemed most to promise her she should have to give up nothing. "I see,
I see; you would have in that case too many things to consider." It brought the Princess round
again, proving itself thus the note of comprehension she wished most to clutch at. "Don't be
afraid."

Maggie took it where she stood--which she was soon able to signify. "Thank-you."

It very properly encouraged her counsellor. "What your idea imputes is a criminal intrigue
carried on, from day to day, amid perfect trust and sympathy, not only under your eyes, but
under your father's. That's an idea it's impossible for me for a. moment to entertain."

"Ah, there you are then! It's exactly what I wanted from you."

"You're welcome to it!" Mrs. Assingham breathed.

"You never HAVE entertained it?" Maggie pursued.

"Never for an instant," said Fanny with her head very high.

Maggie took it again, yet again as wanting more. "Pardon my being so horrid. But by all you
hold sacred?"

Mrs. Assingham faced her. "Ah, my dear, upon my positive word as an honest woman."

"Thank-you then," said the Princess.

So they remained a little; after which, "But do you believe it, love?" Fanny inquired.

"I believe YOU."

"Well, as I've faith in THEM, it comes to the same thing."

Maggie, at this last, appeared for a moment to think again; but she embraced the proposition.
"The same thing."

"Then you're no longer unhappy?" her guest urged, coming more gaily toward her.

"I doubtless shan't be a great while."

But it was now Mrs. Assingham's turn to want more. "I've convinced you it's impossible?"

She had held out her arms, and Maggie, after a moment, meeting her, threw herself into them
with a sound that had its oddity as a sign of relief. "Impossible, impossible," she emphatically,
more than emphatically, replied; yet the next minute she had burst into tears over the impossibility,
and a few seconds later, pressing, clinging, sobbing, had even caused them to flow, audibly,
sympathetically and perversely, from her friend.

                           XXXI

The understanding appeared to have come to be that the Colonel and his wife were to present
themselves toward the middle of July for the "good long visit" at Fawns on which Maggie had
obtained from her father that he should genially insist; as well as that the couple from Eaton
Square should welcome there earlier in the month, and less than a week after their own arrival,
the advent of the couple from Portland Place. "Oh, we shall give you time to breathe!" Fanny
remarked, in reference to the general prospect, with a gaiety that announced itself as heedless
of criticism, to each member of the party in turn; sustaining and bracing herself by her emphasis,
pushed even to an amiable cynicism, of the confident view of these punctualities of the Assinghams.
The ground she could best occupy, to her sense, was that of her being moved, as in this connexion
she had always been moved, by the admitted grossness of her avidity, the way the hospitality
of the Ververs met her convenience and ministered to her ease, destitute as the Colonel had
kept her, from the first, of any rustic retreat, any leafy bower of her own, any fixed base
for the stale season now at hand. She had explained at home, she had repeatedly reexplained,
the terms of her dilemma, the real difficulty of her, or--as she now put it--of their, position.
When the pair could do nothing else, in Cadogan Place, they could still talk of marvellous
little Maggie, and of the charm, the sinister charm, of their having to hold their breath to
watch her; a topic the momentous midnight discussion at which we have been present was so far
from having exhausted. It came up, irrepressibly, at all private hours; they had planted it
there between them, and it grew, from day to day, in a manner to make their sense of responsibility
almost yield to their sense of fascination. Mrs. Assingham declared at such moments that in
the interest of this admirable young thing--to whom, she also declared, she had quite "come
over"--she was ready to pass with all the world else, even with the Prince himself, the object,
inconsequently, as well, of her continued, her explicitly shameless appreciation, for a vulgar,
indelicate, pestilential woman, showing her true character in an abandoned old age. The Colonel's
confessed attention had been enlisted, we have seen, as never yet, under pressure from his
wife, by any guaranteed imbroglio; but this, she could assure him she perfectly knew, was not
a bit because he was sorry for her, or touched by what she had let herself in for, but because,
when once they had been opened, he couldn't keep his eyes from resting complacently, resting
almost intelligently, on the Princess. If he was in love with HER now, however, so much the
better; it would help them both not to wince at what they would have to do for her. Mrs. Assingham
had come back to that, whenever he groaned or grunted; she had at no beguiled moment-- since
Maggie's little march WAS positively beguiling--let him lose sight of the grim necessity awaiting
them. "We shall have, as I've again and again told you, to lie for her--to lie till we're black
in the face."

"To lie 'for' her?" The Colonel often, at these hours, as from a vague vision of old chivalry
in a new form, wandered into apparent lapses from lucidity.

"To lie TO her, up and down, and in and out--it comes to the same thing. It will consist just
as much of lying to the others too: to the Prince about one's belief in HIM; to Charlotte about
one's belief in HER; to Mr. Verver, dear sweet man, about one's belief in everyone. So we've
work cut out--with the biggest lie, on top of all, being that we LIKE to be there for such
a purpose. We hate it unspeakably--I'm more ready to be a coward before it, to let the whole
thing, to let everyone, selfishly and pusillanimously slide, than before any social duty, any
felt human call, that has ever forced me to be decent. I speak at least for myself. For you,"
she had added, "as I've given you so perfect an opportunity to fall in love with Maggie, you'll
doubtless find your account in being so much nearer to her."

"And what do you make," the Colonel could, at this, always imperturbably enough ask, "of the
account you yourself will find in being so much nearer to the Prince; of your confirmed, if
not exasperated, infatuation with whom--to say nothing of my weak good-nature about it--you
give such a pretty picture?"

To the picture in question she had been always, in fact, able contemplatively to return. "The
difficulty of my enjoyment of that is, don't you see? that I'm making, in my loyalty to Maggie,
a sad hash of his affection for me."

"You find means to call it then, this whitewashing of his crime, being 'loyal' to Maggie?"

"Oh, about that particular crime there is always much to say. It is always more interesting
to us than any other crime; it has at least that for it. But of course I call everything I
have in mind at all being loyal to Maggie. Being loyal to her is, more than anything else,
helping her with her father--which is what she most wants and needs."

The Colonel had had it before, but he could apparently never have too much of it. "Helping
her 'with' him--?"

"Helping her against him then. Against what we've already so fully talked of--its having to
be recognised between them that he doubts. That's where my part is so plain--to see her through,
to see her through to the end." Exaltation, for the moment, always lighted Mrs. Assingham's
reference to this plainness; yet she at the same time seldom failed, the next instant, to qualify
her view of it. "When I talk of my obligation as clear I mean that it's absolute; for just
HOW, from day to day and through thick and thin, to keep the thing up is, I grant you, another
matter. There's one way, luckily, nevertheless, in which I'm strong. I can perfectly count on her."

The Colonel seldom failed here, as from the insidious growth of an excitement, to wonder, to
encourage. "Not to see you're lying?"

"To stick to me fast, whatever she sees. If I stick to her--that is to my own poor struggling
way, under providence, of watching over them ALL--she'll stand by me to the death. She won't
give me away. For, you know, she easily can."

This, regularly, was the most lurid turn of their road; but Bob Assingham, with each journey,
met it as for the first time. "Easily?"

"She can utterly dishonour me with her father. She can let him know that I was aware, at the
time of his marriage--as I had been aware at the time of her own--of the relations that had
pre- existed between his wife and her husband."

"And how can she do so if, up to this minute, by your own statement, she is herself in ignorance
of your knowledge?"

It was a question that Mrs. Assingham had ever, for dealing with, a manner to which repeated
practice had given almost a grand effect; very much as if she was invited by it to say that
about this, exactly, she proposed to do her best lying. But she said, and with full lucidity,
something quite other: it could give itself a little the air, still, of a triumph over his
coarseness. "By acting, immediately with the blind resentment with which, in her place, ninety-nine
women out of a hundred would act; and by so making Mr. Verver, in turn, act with the same natural
passion, the passion of ninety-nine men out of a hundred. They've only to agree about me,"
the poor lady said; "they've only to feel at one over it, feel bitterly practised upon, cheated
and injured; they've only to denounce me to each other as false and infamous, for me to be
quite irretrievably dished. Of course it's I who have been, and who continue to be, cheated--cheated
by the Prince and Charlotte; but they're not obliged to give me the benefit of that, or to
give either of us the benefit of anything. They'll be within their rights to lump us all together
as a false, cruel, conspiring crew, and, if they can find the right facts to support them,
get rid of us root and branch."

This, on each occasion, put the matter so at the worst that repetition even scarce controlled
the hot flush with which she was compelled to see the parts of the whole history, all its ugly
consistency and its temporary gloss, hang together. She enjoyed, invariably, the sense of making
her danger present, of making it real, to her husband, and of his almost turning pale, when
their eyes met, at this possibility of their compromised state and their shared discredit.
The beauty was that, as under a touch of one of the ivory notes at the left of the keyboard,
he sounded out with the short sharpness of the dear fond stupid uneasy man. "Conspiring--so
far as YOU were concerned--to what end?"

"Why, to the obvious end of getting the Prince a wife--at Maggie's expense. And then to that
of getting Charlotte a husband at Mr. Verver's."

"Of rendering friendly services, yes--which have produced, as it turns out, complications.
But from the moment you didn't do it FOR the complications, why shouldn't you have rendered them?"

It was extraordinary for her, always, in this connexion, how, with time given him, he fell
to speaking better for her than she could, in the presence of her clear-cut image of the "worst,"
speak for herself. Troubled as she was she thus never wholly failed of her amusement by the
way. "Oh, isn't what I may have meddled 'for'--so far as it can be proved I did meddle--open
to interpretation; by which I mean to Mr. Verver's and Maggie's? Mayn't they see my motive,
in the light of that appreciation, as the wish to be decidedly more friendly to the others
than to the victimised father and daughter?" She positively liked to keep it up. "Mayn't they
see my motive as the determination to serve the Prince, in any case, and at any price, first;
to 'place' him comfortably; in other words to find him his fill of money? Mayn't it have all
the air for them of a really equivocal, sinister bargain between us--something quite unholy
and louche?"

It produced in the poor Colonel, infallibly, the echo. "'Louche,' love--?"

"Why, haven't you said as much yourself?--haven't you put your finger on that awful possibility?"

She had a way now, with his felicities, that made him enjoy being reminded of them. "In speaking
of your having always had such a 'mash'--?"

"Such a mash, precisely, for the man I was to help to put so splendidly at his ease. A motherly
mash an impartial look at it would show it only as likely to have been--but we're not talking,
of course, about impartial looks. We're talking of good innocent people deeply worked upon
by a horrid discovery, and going much further, in their view of the lurid, as such people almost
always do, than those who have been wider awake, all round, from the first. What I was to have
got from my friend, in such a view, in exchange for what I had been able to do for him--well,
that would have been an equivalent, of a kind best known to myself, for me shrewdly to consider."
And she easily lost herself, each time, in the anxious satisfaction of filling out the picture.
"It would have been seen, it would have been heard of, before, the case of the woman a man
doesn't want, or of whom he's tired, or for whom he has no use but SUCH uses, and who is capable,
in her infatuation, in her passion, of promoting his interests with other women rather than
lose sight of him, lose touch of him, cease to have to do with him at all. Cela s'est vu, my
dear; and stranger things still--as I needn't tell YOU! Very good then," she wound up; "there
is a perfectly possible conception of the behaviour of your sweet wife; since, as I say, there's
no imagination so lively, once it's started, as that of really agitated lambs. Lions are nothing
to them, for lions are sophisticated, are blases, are brought up, from the first, to prowling
and mauling. It does give us, you'll admit, something to think about. My relief is luckily,
however, in what I finally do think."

He was well enough aware, by this time, of what she finally did think; but he was not without
a sense, again, also for his amusement by the way. It would have made him, for a spectator
of these passages between the pair, resemble not a little the artless child who hears his favourite
story told for the twentieth time and enjoys it exactly because he knows what is next to happen.
"What of course will pull them up, if they turn out to have less imagination than you assume,
is the profit you can have found in furthering Mrs. Verver's marriage. You weren't at least
in love with Charlotte."

"Oh," Mrs. Assingham, at this, always brought out, "my hand in that is easily accounted  for
by my desire to be agreeable to HIM."

"To Mr. Verver?"

"To the Prince--by preventing her in that way from taking, as he was in danger of seeing her
do, some husband with whom he wouldn't be able to open, to keep open, so large an account as
with his father-in-law. I've brought her near him, kept her within his reach, as she could
never have remained either as a single woman or as the wife of a different man."

"Kept her, on that sweet construction, to be his mistress?"

"Kept her, on that sweet construction, to be his mistress." She brought it out grandly--it
had always so, for her own ear as well as, visibly, for her husband's, its effect. "The facilities
in the case, thanks to the particular conditions, being so quite ideal."

"Down even to the facility of your minding everything so little-- from your own point of view--as
to have supplied him with the enjoyment of TWO beautiful women."

"Down even to THAT--to the monstrosity of my folly. But not," Mrs. Assingham added, "'two'
of anything. One beautiful woman-- and one beautiful fortune. That's what a creature of pure
virtue exposes herself to when she suffers her pure virtue, suffers her sympathy, her disinterestedness,
her exquisite sense for the lives of others, to carry her too far. Voila."

"I see. It's the way the Ververs have you."

"It's the way the Ververs 'have' me. It's in other words the way they would be able to make
such a show to each other of having me--if Maggie weren't so divine."

"She lets you off?" He never failed to insist on all this to the very end; which was how he
had become so versed in what she finally thought.

"She lets me off. So that now, horrified and contrite at what I've done, I may work to help
her out. And Mr. Verver," she was fond of adding, "lets me off too."

"Then you do believe he knows?"

It determined in her always, there, with a significant pause, a deep immersion in her thought.
"I believe he would let me off if he did know--so that I might work to help HIM out. Or rather,
really," she went on, "that I might work to help Maggie. That would be his motive, that would
be his condition, in forgiving me; just as hers, for me, in fact, her motive and her condition,
are my acting to spare her father. But it's with Maggie only that I'm directly concerned; nothing,
ever--not a breath, not a look, I'll guarantee--shall I have, whatever happens, from Mr. Verver
himself. So it is, therefore, that I shall probably, by the closest possible shave, escape
the penalty of my crimes."

"You mean being held responsible."

"I mean being held responsible. My advantage will be that Maggie's such a trump."

"Such a trump that, as you say, she'll stick to you."

"Stick to me, on our understanding--stick to me. For our understanding's signed and sealed."
And to brood over it again was ever, for Mrs. Assingham, to break out again with exaltation.
"It's a grand, high compact. She has solemnly promised."

"But in words--?"

"Oh yes, in words enough--since it's a matter of words. To keep up HER lie so long as I keep
up mine."

"And what do you call 'her' lie?"

"Why, the pretence that she believes me. Believes they're innocent."

"She positively believes then they're guilty? She has arrived at that, she's really content
with it, in the absence of proof?" It was here, each time, that Fanny Assingham most faltered;
but always at last to get the matter, for her own sense, and with a long sigh, sufficiently
straight. "It isn't a question of belief or of proof, absent or present; it's inevitably, with
her, a question of natural perception, of insurmountable feeling. She irresistibly knows that
there's something between them. But she hasn't 'arrived' at it, as you say, at all; that's
exactly what she hasn't done, what she so steadily and intensely refuses to do. She stands
off and off, so as not to arrive; she keeps out to sea and away from the rocks, and what she
most wants of me is to keep at a safe distance with her--as I, for my own skin, only ask not
to come nearer." After which, invariably, she let him have it all. "So far from wanting proof--which
she must get, in a manner, by my siding with her--she wants DISproof, as against herself, and
has appealed to me, so extraordinarily, to side against her. It's really magnificent, when
you come to think of it, the spirit of her appeal. If I'll but cover them up brazenly enough,
the others, so as to show, round and about them, as happy as a bird, she on her side will do
what she can. If I'll keep them quiet, in a word, it will enable her to gain time--time as
against any idea of her father's--and so, somehow, come out. If I'll take care of Charlotte,
in particular, she'll take care of the Prince; and it's beautiful and wonderful, really pathetic
and exquisite, to see what she feels that time may do for her."

"Ah, but what does she call, poor little thing, 'time'?"

"Well, this summer at Fawns, to begin with. She can live as yet, of course, but from hand to
mouth; but she has worked it out for herself, I think, that the very danger of Fawns, superficially
looked at, may practically amount to a greater protection. THERE the lovers--if they ARE lovers!--will
have to mind. They'll feel it for themselves, unless things are too utterly far gone with them."

"And things are NOT too utterly far gone with them?"

She had inevitably, poor woman, her hesitation for this, but she put down her answer as, for
the purchase of some absolutely indispensable article, she would have put down her last shilling.
"No."

It made him always grin at her. "Is THAT a lie?"

"Do you think you're worth lying to? If it weren't the truth, for me," she added, "I wouldn't
have accepted for Fawns. I CAN, I believe, keep the wretches quiet."

"But how--at the worst?"

"Oh, 'the worst'--don't talk about the worst! I can keep them quiet at the best, I seem to
feel, simply by our being there. It will work, from week to week, of itself. You'll see."

He was willing enough to see, but he desired to provide--! "Yet if it doesn't work?"

"Ah, that's talking about the worst!"

Well, it might be; but what were they doing, from morning to night, at this crisis, but talk?
"Who'll keep the others?"

"The others--?"

"Who'll keep THEM quiet? If your couple have had a life together, they can't have had it completely
without witnesses, without the help of persons, however few, who must have some knowledge,
some idea about them. They've had to meet, secretly, protectedly, they've had to arrange; for
if they haven't met, and haven't arranged, and haven't thereby, in some quarter or other, had
to give themselves away, why are we piling it up so? Therefore if there's evidence, up and
down London--"

"There must be people in possession of it? Ah, it isn't all," she always remembered, "up and
down London. Some of it must connect them--I mean," she musingly added, "it naturally WOULD--with
other places; with who knows what strange adventures, opportunities, dissimulations? But whatever
there may have been, it will also all have been buried on the spot. Oh, they've known HOW--too
beautifully! But nothing, all the same, is likely to find its way to Maggie of itself."

"Because every one who may have anything to tell, you hold, will have been so squared?" And
then inveterately, before she could say--he enjoyed so much coming to this: "What will have
squared Lady Castledean?"

"The consciousness"--she had never lost her promptness--"of having no stones to throw at any
one else's windows. She has enough to do to guard her own glass. That was what she was doing,"
Fanny said, "that last morning at Matcham when all of us went off and she kept the Prince and
Charlotte over. She helped them simply that she might herself be helped--if it wasn't perhaps,
rather, with her ridiculous Mr. Blint, that HE might be. They put in together, therefore, of
course, that day; they got it clear--and quite under her eyes; inasmuch as they didn't become
traceable again, as we know, till late in the evening." On this historic circumstance Mrs.
Assingham was always ready afresh to brood; but she was no less ready, after her brooding,
devoutly to add "Only we know nothing whatever else--for which all our stars be thanked!"

The Colonel's gratitude was apt to be less marked. "What did they do for themselves, all the
same, from the moment they got that free hand to the moment (long after dinner-time, haven't
you told me?) of their turning up at their respective homes?"

"Well, it's none of your business!"

"I don't speak of it as mine, but it's only too much theirs. People are always traceable, in
England, when tracings are required. Something, sooner or later, happens; somebody, sooner
or later, breaks the holy calm. Murder will out."

"Murder will--but this isn't murder. Quite the contrary perhaps! I verily believe," she had
her moments of adding, "that, for the amusement of the row, you would prefer an explosion."

This, however, was a remark he seldom noticed; he wound up, for the most part, after a long,
contemplative smoke, with a transition from which no exposed futility in it had succeeded in
weaning him. "What I can't for my life make out is your idea of the old boy."

"Charlotte's too inconceivably funny husband? I HAVE no idea."

"I beg your pardon--you've just shown it. You never speak of him but as too inconceivably funny."

"Well, he is," she always confessed. "That is he may be, for all I know, too inconceivably
great. But that's not an idea. It represents only my weak necessity of feeling that he's beyond
me--which isn't an idea either. You see he MAY be stupid too."

"Precisely--there you are."

"Yet on the other hand," she always went on, "he MAY be sublime: sublimer even than Maggie
herself. He may in fact have already been. But we shall never know." With which her tone betrayed
perhaps a shade of soreness for the single exemption she didn't yearningly welcome. "THAT I
can see."

"Oh, I say--!" It came to affect the Colonel himself with a sense of privation.

"I'm not sure, even, that Charlotte will."

"Oh, my dear, what Charlotte doesn't know--!"

But she brooded and brooded. "I'm not sure even that the Prince will." It seemed privation,
in short, for them all. "They'll be mystified, confounded, tormented. But they won't know--and
all their possible putting their heads together won't make them. That," said Fanny Assingham,
"will be their punishment." And she ended, ever, when she had come so far, at the same pitch.
"It will probably also--if I get off with so little--be mine."

"And what," her husband liked to ask, "will be mine?"

"Nothing--you're not worthy of any. One's punishment is in what one feels, and what will make
ours effective is that we SHALL feel." She was splendid with her "ours"; she flared up with
this prophecy. "It will be Maggie herself who will mete it out."

"Maggie--?"

"SHE'LL know--about her father; everything. Everything," she repeated. On the vision of which,
each time, Mrs. Assingham, as with the presentiment of an odd despair, turned away from it.
"But she'll never tell us."

                             XXXII

If Maggie had not so firmly made up her mind never to say, either to her good friend or to
any one else, more than she meant about her father, she might have found herself betrayed into
some such overflow during the week spent in London with her husband after the others had adjourned
to Fawns for the summer. This was because of the odd element of the unnatural imparted to the
so simple fact of their brief separation by the assumptions resident in their course of life
hitherto. She was used, herself, certainly, by this time, to dealing with odd elements; but
she dropped, instantly, even from such peace as she had patched up, when it was a question
of feeling that her unpenetrated parent might be alone with them. She thought of him as alone
with them when she thought of him as alone with Charlotte--and this, strangely enough, even
while fixing her sense to the full on his wife's power of preserving, quite of enhancing, every
felicitous appearance. Charlotte had done that--under immeasurably fewer difficulties indeed--during
the numerous months of their hymeneal absence from England, the period prior to that wonderful
reunion of the couples, in the interest of the larger play of all the virtues of each, which
was now bearing, for Mrs. Verver's stepdaughter at least, such remarkable fruit. It was the
present so much briefer interval, in a situation, possibly in a relation, so changed--it was
the new terms of her problem that would tax Charlotte's art. The Princess could pull herself
up, repeatedly, by remembering that the real "relation" between her father and his wife was
a thing that she knew nothing about and that, in strictness, was none of her business; but
she none the less failed to keep quiet, as she would have called it, before the projected image
of their ostensibly happy isolation. Nothing could have had less of the quality of quietude
than a certain queer wish that fitfully flickered up in her, a wish that usurped, perversely,
the place of a much more natural one. If Charlotte, while she was about it, could only have
been WORSE!-- that idea Maggie fell to invoking instead of the idea that she might desirably
have been better. For, exceedingly odd as it was to feel in such ways, she believed she mightn't
have worried so much if she didn't somehow make her stepmother out, under the beautiful trees
and among the dear old gardens, as lavish of fifty kinds of confidence and twenty kinds, at
least, of gentleness. Gentleness and confidence were certainly the right thing, as from a charming
woman to her husband, but the fine tissue of reassurance woven by this lady's hands and flung
over her companion as a light, muffling veil, formed precisely a wrought transparency through
which she felt her father's eyes continually rest on herself. The reach of his gaze came to
her straighter from a distance; it showed him as still more conscious, down there alone, of
the suspected, the felt elaboration of the process of their not alarming or hurting him. She
had herself now, for weeks and weeks, and all unwinkingly, traced the extension of this pious
effort; but her perfect success in giving no sign--she did herself THAT credit--would have
been an achievement quite wasted if Mrs. Verver should make with him those mistakes of proportion,
one set of them too abruptly, too incoherently designed to correct another set, that she had
made with his daughter. However, if she HAD been worse, poor woman, who should say that her
husband would, to a certainty, have been better?

One groped noiselessly among such questions, and it was actually not even definite for the
Princess that her own Amerigo, left alone with her in town, had arrived at the golden mean
of non-precautionary gallantry which would tend, by his calculation, to brush private criticism
from its last perching-place. The truth was, in this connection, that she had different sorts
of terrors, and there were hours when it came to her that these days were a prolonged repetition
of that night-drive, of weeks before, from the other house to their own, when he had tried
to charm her, by his sovereign personal power, into some collapse that would commit her to
a repudiation of consistency. She was never alone with him, it was to be said, without her
having sooner or later to ask herself what had already become of her consistency; yet, at the
same time, so long as she breathed no charge, she kept hold of a remnant of appearance that
could save her from attack. Attack, real attack, from him, as he would conduct it was what
she above all dreaded; she was so far from sure that under that experience she mightn't drop
into some depth of weakness, mightn't show him some shortest way with her that he would know
how to use again. Therefore, since she had given him, as yet, no moment's pretext for pretending
to her that she had either lost faith or suffered by a feather's weight in happiness, she left
him, it was easy to reason, with an immense advantage for all waiting and all tension. She
wished him, for the present, to "make up" to her for nothing. Who could say to what making-up
might lead, into what consenting or pretending or destroying blindness it might plunge her?
She loved him too helplessly, still, to dare to open the door, by an inch, to his treating
her as if either of them had wronged the other. Something or somebody--and who, at this, which
of them all?--would inevitably, would in the gust of momentary selfishness, be sacrificed to
that; whereas what she intelligently needed was to know where she was going. Knowledge, knowledge,
was a fascination as well as a fear; and a part, precisely, of the strangeness of this juncture
was the way her apprehension that he would break out to her with some merely general profession
was mixed with her dire need to forgive him, to reassure him, to respond to him, on no ground
that she didn't fully measure. To do these things it must be clear to her what they were FOR;
but to act in that light was, by the same effect, to learn, horribly, what the other things
had been. He might tell her only what he wanted, only what would work upon her by the beauty
of his appeal; and the result of the direct appeal of ANY beauty in him would be her helpless
submission to his terms. All her temporary safety, her hand-to- mouth success, accordingly,
was in his neither perceiving nor divining this, thanks to such means as she could take to
prevent him; take, literally from hour to hour, during these days of more unbroken exposure.
From hour to hour she fairly expected some sign of his having decided on a jump. "Ah yes, it
HAS been as you think; I've strayed away, I've fancied myself free, given myself in other quantities,
with larger generosities, because I thought you were different--different from what I now see.
But it was only, only, because I didn't know--and you must admit that you gave me scarce reason
enough. Reason enough, I mean, to keep clear of my mistake; to which I confess, for which I'll
do exquisite penance, which you can help me now, I too beautifully feel, to get completely over."

That was what, while she watched herself, she potentially heard him bring out; and while she
carried to an end another day, another sequence and yet another of their hours together, without
his producing it, she felt herself occupied with him beyond even the intensity of surrender.
She was keeping her head, for a reason, for a cause; and the labour of this detachment, with
the labour of her keeping the pitch of it down, held them together in the steel hoop of an
intimacy compared with which artless passion would have been but a beating of the air. Her
greatest danger, or at least her greatest motive for care, was the obsession of the thought
that, if he actually did suspect, the fruit of his attention to her couldn't help being a sense
of the growth of her importance. Taking the measure, with him, as she had taken it with her
father, of the prescribed reach of her hypocrisy, she saw how it would have to stretch even
to her seeking to prove that she was NOT, all the same, important. A single touch from him--oh,
she should know it in case of its coming!--any brush of his hand, of his lips, of his voice,
inspired by recognition of her probable interest as distinct from pity for her virtual gloom,
would hand her over to him bound hand and foot. Therefore to be free, to be free to act, other
than abjectly, for her father, she must conceal from him the validity that, like a microscopic
insect pushing a grain of sand, she was taking on even for herself. She could keep it up with
a change in sight, but she couldn't keep it up forever; so that, really, one extraordinary
effect of their week of untempered confrontation, which bristled with new marks, was to make
her reach out, in thought, to their customary companions and calculate the kind of relief that
rejoining them would bring. She was learning, almost from minute to minute, to be a mistress
of shades since, always, when there were possibilities enough of intimacy, there were also,
by that fact, in intercourse, possibilities of iridescence; but she was working against an
adversary who was a master of shades too, and on whom, if she didn't look out, she should presently
have imposed a consciousness of the nature of their struggle. To feel him in fact, to think
of his feeling himself, her adversary in things of this fineness--to see him at all, in short,
brave a name that would represent him as in opposition-- was already to be nearly reduced to
a visible smothering of her cry of alarm. Should he guess they were having, in their so occult
manner, a HIGH fight, and that it was she, all the while, in her supposed stupidity, who had
made it high and was keeping it high--in the event of his doing this before they could leave
town she should verily be lost.

The possible respite for her at Fawns would come from the fact that observation, in him, there,
would inevitably find some of its directness diverted. This would be the case if only because
the remarkable strain of her father's placidity might be thought of as likely to claim some
larger part of his attention. Besides which there would be always Charlotte herself to draw
him off. Charlotte would help him again, doubtless, to study anything, right or left, that
might be symptomatic; but Maggie could see that this very fact might perhaps contribute, in
its degree, to protect the secret of her own fermentation. It is not even incredible that she
may have discovered the gleam of a comfort that was to broaden in the conceivable effect on
the Prince's spirit, on his nerves, on his finer irritability, of some of the very airs and
aspects, the light graces themselves, of Mrs. Verver's too perfect competence. What it would
most come to, after all, she said to herself, was a renewal for him of the privilege of watching
that lady watch her. Very well, then: with the elements after all so mixed in him, how long
would he go on enjoying mere spectatorship of that act? For she had by this time made up her
mind that in Charlotte's company he deferred to Charlotte's easier art of mounting guard. Wouldn't
he get tired-- to put it only at that--of seeing her always on the rampart, erect and elegant,
with her lace-flounced parasol now folded and now shouldered, march to and fro against a gold-coloured
east or west? Maggie had gone far, truly for a view of the question of this particular reaction,
and she was not incapable of pulling herself up with the rebuke that she counted her chickens
before they were hatched. How sure she should have to be of so many things before she might
thus find a weariness in Amerigo's expression and a logic in his weariness!

One of her dissimulated arts for meeting their tension, meanwhile, was to interweave Mrs. Assingham
as plausibly as possible with the undulations of their surface, to bring it about that she
should join them, of an afternoon, when they drove together or if they went to look at things--looking
at things being almost as much a feature of their life as if they were bazaar-opening royalties.
Then there were such combinations, later in the day, as her attendance on them, and the Colonel's
as well, for such whimsical matters as visits to the opera no matter who was singing, and sudden
outbreaks of curiosity about the British drama. The good couple from Cadogan Place could always
unprotestingly dine with them and "go on" afterwards to such publicities as the Princess cultivated
the boldness of now perversely preferring. It may be said of her that, during these passages,
she plucked her sensations by the way, detached, nervously, the small wild blossoms of her
dim forest, so that she could smile over them at least with the spacious appearance, for her
companions, for her husband above all, of bravely, of altogether frivolously, going a-maying.
She had her intense, her smothered excitements, some of which were almost inspirations; she
had in particular the extravagant, positively at moments the amused, sense of using her friend
to the topmost notch, accompanied with the high luxury of not having to explain. Never, no
never, should she have to explain to Fanny Assingham again-- who, poor woman, on her own side,
would be charged, it might be forever, with that privilege of the higher ingenuity. She put
it all off on Fanny, and the dear thing herself might henceforth appraise the quantity. More
and more magnificent now in her blameless egoism, Maggie asked no questions of her, and thus
only signified the greatness of the opportunity she gave her. She didn't care for what devotions,
what dinners of their own the Assinghams might have been "booked"; that was a detail, and she
could think without wincing of the ruptures and rearrangements to which her service condemned
them. It all fell in beautifully, moreover; so that, as hard, at this time, in spite of her
fever, as a little pointed diamond, the Princess showed something of the glitter of consciously
possessing the constructive, the creative hand. She had but to have the fancy of presenting
herself, of presenting her husband, in a certain high and convenient manner, to make it natural
they should go about with their gentleman and their lady. To what else but this, exactly, had
Charlotte, during so many weeks of the earlier season, worked her up?--herself assuming and
discharging, so far as might be, the character and office of one of those revolving subordinate
presences that float in the wake of greatness.

The precedent was therefore established and the group normally constituted. Mrs. Assingham,
meanwhile, at table, on the stairs, in the carriage or the opera-box, might--with her constant
overflow of expression, for that matter, and its singularly resident character where men in
especial were concerned--look across at Amerigo in whatever sense she liked: it was not of
that Maggie proposed to be afraid. She might warn him, she might rebuke him, she might reassure
him, she might--if it were impossible not to--absolutely make love to him; even this was open
to her, as a matter simply between them, if it would help her to answer for the impeccability
he had guaranteed. And Maggie desired in fact only to strike her as acknowledging the efficacy
of her aid when she mentioned to her one evening a small project for the morrow, privately
entertained--the idea, irresistible, intense, of going to pay, at the Museum, a visit to Mr.
Crichton. Mr. Crichton, as Mrs. Assingham could easily remember, was the most accomplished
and obliging of public functionaries, whom every one knew and who knew every one--who had from
the first, in particular, lent himself freely, and for the love of art and history, to becoming
one of the steadier lights of Mr. Verver's adventurous path. The custodian of one of the richest
departments of the great national collection of precious things, he could feel for the sincere
private collector and urge him on his way even when condemned to be present at his capture
of trophies sacrificed by the country to parliamentary thrift. He carried his amiability to
the point of saying that, since London, under pettifogging views, had to miss, from time to
time, its rarest opportunities, he was almost consoled to see such lost causes invariably wander
at last, one by one, with the tormenting tinkle of their silver bells, into the wondrous, the
already famous fold beyond the Mississippi. There was a charm in his "almosts" that was not
to be resisted, especially after Mr. Verver and Maggie had grown sure--or almost, again--of
enjoying the monopoly of them; and on this basis of envy changed to sympathy by the more familiar
view of the father and the daughter, Mr. Crichton had at both houses, though especially in
Eaton Square, learned to fill out the responsive and suggestive character. It was at his invitation,
Fanny well recalled, that Maggie, one day, long before, and under her own attendance precisely,
had, for the glory of the name she bore, paid a visit to one of the ampler shrines of the supreme
exhibitory temple, an alcove of shelves charged with the gold-and-brown, gold-and- ivory, of
old Italian bindings and consecrated to the records of the Prince's race. It had been an impression
that penetrated, that remained; yet Maggie had sighed, ever so prettily, at its having to be
so superficial. She was to go back some day, to dive deeper, to linger and taste; in spite
of which, however, Mrs. Assingham could not recollect perceiving that the visit had been repeated.
This second occasion had given way, for a long time, in her happy life, to other occasions--all
testifying, in their degree, to the quality of her husband's blood, its rich mixture and its
many remarkable references; after which, no doubt, the charming piety involved had grown, on
still further grounds, bewildered and faint.

It now appeared, none the less, that some renewed conversation with Mr. Crichton had breathed
on the faintness revivingly, and Maggie mentioned her purpose as a conception of her very own,
to the success of which she designed to devote her morning. Visits of gracious ladies, under
his protection, lighted up rosily, for this perhaps most flower-loving and honey-sipping member
of the great Bloomsbury hive, its packed passages and cells; and though not sworn of the province
toward which his friend had found herself, according to her appeal to him, yearning again,
nothing was easier for him than to put her in relation with the presiding urbanities. So it
had been settled, Maggie said to Mrs. Assingham, and she was to dispense with Amerigo's company.
Fanny was to remember later on that she had at first taken this last fact for one of the finer
notes of her young woman's detachment, imagined she must be going alone because of the shade
of irony that, in these ambiguous days, her husband's personal presence might be felt to confer,
practically, on any tribute to his transmitted significance. Then as, the next moment, she
felt it clear that so much plotted freedom was virtually a refinement of reflection, an impulse
to commemorate afresh whatever might still survive of pride and hope, her sense of ambiguity
happily fell and she congratulated her companion on having anything so exquisite to do and
on being so exquisitely in the humour to do it. After the occasion had come and gone she was
confirmed in her optimism; she made out, in the evening, that the hour spent among the projected
lights, the annals and illustrations, the parchments and portraits, the emblazoned volumes
and the murmured commentary, had been for the Princess enlarging and inspiring. Maggie had
said to her some days before, very sweetly but very firmly, "Invite us to dine, please, for
Friday, and have any one you like or you can--it doesn't in the least matter whom;" and the
pair in Cadogan Place had bent to this mandate with a docility not in the least ruffled by
all that it took for granted.

It provided for an evening--this had been Maggie's view; and she lived up to her view, in her
friend's eyes, by treating the occasion, more or less explicitly, as new and strange. The good
Assinghams had feasted in fact at the two other boards on a scale so disproportionate to the
scant solicitations of their own that it was easy to make a joke of seeing how they fed at
home, how they met, themselves, the question of giving to eat. Maggie dined with them, in short,
and arrived at making her husband appear to dine, much in the manner of a pair of young sovereigns
who have, in the frolic humour of the golden years of reigns, proposed themselves to a pair
of faithfully-serving subjects. She showed an interest in their arrangements, an inquiring
tenderness almost for their economies; so that her hostess not unnaturally, as they might have
said, put it all down--the tone and the freedom of which she set the example--to the effect
wrought in her afresh by one of the lessons learned, in the morning, at the altar of the past.
Hadn't she picked it up, from an anecdote or two offered again to her attention, that there
were, for princesses of such a line, more ways than one of being a heroine? Maggie's way to-night
was to surprise them all, truly, by the extravagance of her affability. She was doubtless not
positively boisterous; yet, though Mrs. Assingham, as a bland critic, had never doubted her
being graceful, she had never seen her put so much of it into being what might have been called
assertive. It was all a tune to which Fanny's heart could privately palpitate: her guest was
happy, happy as a consequence of something that had occurred, but she was making the Prince
not lose a ripple of her laugh, though not perhaps always enabling him to find it absolutely
not foolish. Foolish, in public, beyond a certain point, he was scarce the man to brook his
wife's being thought to be; so that there hovered before their friend the possibility of some
subsequent scene between them, in the carriage or at home, of slightly sarcastic inquiry, of
promptly invited explanation; a scene that, according as Maggie should play her part in it,
might or might not precipitate developments. What made these appearances practically thrilling,
meanwhile, was this mystery--a mystery, it was clear, to Amerigo himself--of the incident or
the influence that had so peculiarly determined them.

The lady of Cadogan Place was to read deeper, however, within three days, and the page was
turned for her on the eve of her young confidant's leaving London. The awaited migration to
Fawns was to take place on the morrow, and it was known meanwhile to Mrs. Assingham that their
party of four were to dine that night, at the American Embassy, with another and a larger party;
so that the elder woman had a sense of surprise on receiving from the younger, under date of
six o'clock, a telegram requesting her immediate attendance. "Please come to me at once; dress
early, if necessary, so that we shall have time: the carriage, ordered for us, will take you
back first." Mrs. Assingham, on quick deliberation, dressed, though not perhaps with full lucidity,
and by seven o'clock was in Portland Place, where her friend, "upstairs" and described to her
on her arrival as herself engaged in dressing, instantly received her. She knew on the spot,
poor Fanny, as she was afterwards to declare to the Colonel, that her feared crisis had popped
up as at the touch of a spring, that her impossible hour was before her. Her impossible hour
was the hour of its coming out that she had known of old so much more than she had ever said;
and she had often put it to herself, in apprehension, she tried to think even in preparation,
that she should recognise the approach of her doom by a consciousness akin to that of the blowing
open of a window on some night of the highest wind and the lowest thermometer. It would be
all in vain to have crouched so long by the fire; the glass would have been smashed, the icy
air would fill the place. If the air in Maggie's room then, on her going up, was not, as yet,
quite the polar blast she had expected, it was distinctly, none the less, such an atmosphere
as they had not hitherto breathed together. The Princess, she perceived, was completely dressed--that
business was over; it added indeed to the effect of her importantly awaiting the assistance
she had summoned, of her showing a deck cleared, so to speak, for action. Her maid had already
left her, and she presented herself, in the large, clear room, where everything was admirable,
but where nothing was out of place, as, for the first time in her life rather "bedizened."
Was it that she had put on too many things, overcharged herself with jewels, wore in particular
more of them than usual, and bigger ones, in her hair?--a question her visitor presently answered
by attributing this appearance largely to the bright red spot, red as some monstrous ruby,
that burned in either of her cheeks. These two items of her aspect had, promptly enough, their
own light for Mrs. Assingham, who made out by it that nothing more pathetic could be imagined
than the refuge and disguise her agitation had instinctively asked of the arts of dress, multiplied
to extravagance, almost to incoherence. She had had, visibly, her idea--that of not betraying
herself by inattentions into which she had never yet fallen, and she stood there circled about
and furnished forth, as always, in a manner that testified to her perfect little personal processes.
It had ever been her sign that she was, for all occasions, FOUND ready, without loose ends
or exposed accessories or unremoved superfluities; a suggestion of the swept and garnished,
in her whole splendid, yet thereby more or less encumbered and embroidered setting, that reflected
her small still passion for order and symmetry, for objects with their backs to the walls,
and spoke even of some probable reference, in her American blood, to dusting and polishing
New England grandmothers. If her apartment was "princely," in the clearness of the lingering
day, she looked as if she had been carried there prepared, all attired and decorated, like
some holy image in a procession, and left, precisely, to show what wonder she could work under
pressure. Her friend felt--how could she not?--as the truly pious priest might feel when confronted,
behind the altar, before the festa, with his miraculous Madonna. Such an occasion would be
grave, in general, with all the gravity of what he might look for. But the gravity to-night
would be of the rarest; what he might look for would depend so on what he could give.

                            XXXIII

"Something very strange has happened, and I think you ought to know it."

Maggie spoke this indeed without extravagance, yet with the effect of making her guest measure
anew the force of her appeal. It was their definite understanding: whatever Fanny knew Fanny's
faith would provide for. And she knew, accordingly, at the end of five minutes, what the extraordinary,
in the late occurrence, had consisted of, and how it had all come of Maggie's achieved hour,
under Mr. Crichton's protection, at the Museum. He had desired, Mr. Crichton, with characteristic
kindness, after the wonderful show, after offered luncheon at his incorporated lodge hard by,
to see her safely home; especially on his noting, in attending her to the great steps, that
she had dismissed her carriage; which she had done, really, just for the harmless amusement
of taking her way alone. She had known she should find herself, as the consequence of such
an hour, in a sort of exalted state, under the influence of which a walk through the London
streets would be exactly what would suit her best; an independent ramble, impressed, excited,
contented, with nothing to mind and nobody to talk to, and shop-windows in plenty to look at
if she liked: a low taste, of the essence, it was to be supposed, of her nature, that she had
of late, for so many reasons, been unable to gratify. She had taken her leave, with her thanks--she
knew her way quite enough; it being also sufficiently the case that she had even a shy hope
of not going too straight. To wander a little wild was what would truly amuse her; so that,
keeping clear of Oxford Street and cultivating an impression as of parts she didn't know, she
had ended with what she had more or less had been fancying, an encounter with three or four
shops--an old bookseller's, an old printmonger's, a couple of places with dim antiquities in
the window--that were not as so many of the other shops, those in Sloane Street, say; a hollow
parade which had long since ceased to beguile. There had remained with her moreover an allusion
of Charlotte's, of some months before--seed dropped into her imagination in the form of a casual
speech about there being in Bloomsbury such "funny little fascinating" places and even sometimes
such unexpected finds. There could perhaps have been no stronger mark than this sense of well-nigh
romantic opportunity--no livelier sign of the impression made on her, and always so long retained,
so watchfully nursed, by any observation of Charlotte's, however lightly thrown off. And then
she had felt, somehow, more at her ease than for months and months before; she didn't know
why, but her time at the Museum, oddly, had done it; it was as if she hadn't come into so many
noble and beautiful associations, nor secured them also for her boy, secured them even for
her father, only to see them turn to vanity and doubt, turn possibly to something still worse.
"I believed in him again as much as ever, and I felt how I believed in him," she said with
bright, fixed eyes; "I felt it in the streets as I walked along, and it was as if that helped
me and lifted me up, my being off by myself there, not having, for the moment, to wonder and
watch; having, on the contrary, almost nothing on my mind."

It was so much as if everything would come out right that she had fallen to thinking of her
father's birthday, had given herself this as a reason for trying what she could pick up for
it. They would keep it at Fawns, where they had kept it before--since it would be the twenty-first
of the month; and she mightn't have another chance of making sure of something to offer him.
There was always the impossibility, of course, of finding him anything, the least bit "good,"
that he wouldn't already, long ago, in his rummagings, have seen himself--and only not to think
a quarter good enough; this, however, was an old story, and one could not have had any fun
with him but for his sweet theory that the individual gift, the friendship's offering, was,
by a rigorous law of nature, a foredoomed aberration, and that the more it was so the more
it showed, and the more one cherished it for showing, how friendly it had been. The infirmity
of art was the candour of affection, the grossness of pedigree the refinement of sympathy;
the ugliest objects, in fact, as a general thing, were the bravest, the tenderest mementos,
and, as such, figured in glass cases apart, worthy doubtless of the home, but not worthy of
the temple--dedicated to the grimacing, not to the clear-faced, gods. She herself, naturally,
through the past years, had come to be much represented in those receptacles; against the thick,
locked panes of which she still liked to flatten her nose, finding in its place, each time,
everything she had on successive anniversaries tried to believe he might pretend, at her suggestion,
to be put off with, or at least think curious. She was now ready to try it again: they had
always, with his pleasure in her pretence and her pleasure in his, with the funny betrayal
of the sacrifice to domestic manners on either side, played the game so happily. To this end,
on her way home, she had loitered everywhere; quite too deludedly among the old books and the
old prints, which had yielded nothing to her purpose, but with a strange inconsequence in one
of the other shops, that of a small antiquarian, a queer little foreign man, who had shown
her a number of things, shown her finally something that, struck with it as rather a rarity
and thinking it would, compared to some of her ventures, quite superlatively do, she had bought--bought
really, when it came to that, for a price. "It appears now it won't do at all," said Maggie,
"something has happened since that puts it quite out of the question. I had only my day of
satisfaction in it, but I feel, at the same time, as I keep it here before me, that I wouldn't
have missed it for the world."

She had talked, from the first of her friend's entrances coherently enough, even with a small
quaver that overstated her calm; but she held her breath every few seconds, as if for deliberation
and to prove she didn't pant--all of which marked for Fanny the depth of her commotion: her
reference to her thought about her father, about her chance to pick up something that might
divert him, her mention, in fine, of his fortitude under presents, having meanwhile, naturally,
it should be said, much less an amplitude of insistence on the speaker's lips than a power
to produce on the part of the listener herself the prompt response and full comprehension of
memory and sympathy, of old amused observation. The picture was filled out by the latter's
fond fancy. But Maggie was at any rate under arms; she knew what she was doing and had already
her plan--a plan for making, for allowing, as yet, "no difference"; in accordance with which
she would still dine out, and not with red eyes, nor convulsed features, nor neglected items
of appearance, nor anything that would raise a question. Yet there was some knowledge that,
exactly to this support of her not breaking down, she desired, she required, possession of;
and, with the sinister rise and fall of lightning unaccompanied by thunder, it played before
Mrs. Assingham's eyes that she herself should have, at whatever risk or whatever cost, to supply
her with the stuff of her need. All our friend's instinct was to hold off from this till she
should see what the ground would bear; she would take no step nearer unless INTELLIGIBLY to
meet her, and, awkward though it might be to hover there only pale and distorted, with mere
imbecilities of vagueness, there was a quality of bald help in the fact of not as yet guessing
what such an ominous start could lead to. She caught, however, after a second's thought, at
the Princess's allusion to her lost reassurance.

"You mean you were so at your ease on Monday--the night you dined with us?"

"I was very happy then," said Maggie.

"Yes--we thought you so gay and so brilliant." Fanny felt it feeble, but she went on. "We were
so glad you were happy."

Maggie stood a moment, at first only looking at her. "You thought me all right, eh?"

"Surely, dearest; we thought you all right."

"Well, I daresay it was natural; but in point of fact I never was more wrong in my life. For,
all the while, if you please, this was brewing."

Mrs. Assingham indulged, as nearly as possible to luxury, her vagueness. "'This'--?"

"THAT!" replied the Princess, whose eyes, her companion now saw, had turned to an object on
the chimney-piece of the room, of which, among so many precious objects--the Ververs, wherever
they might be, always revelled peculiarly in matchless old mantel ornaments--her visitor had
not taken heed.

"Do you mean the gilt cup?"

"I mean the gilt cup."

The piece now recognised by Fanny as new to her own vision was a capacious bowl, of old-looking,
rather strikingly yellow gold, mounted, by a short stem, on an ample foot, which held a central
position above the fire-place, where, to allow it the better to show, a clearance had been
made of other objects, notably of the Louis-Seize clock that accompanied the candelabra. This
latter trophy ticked at present on the marble slab of a commode that exactly matched it in
splendour and style. Mrs. Assingham took it, the bowl, as a fine thing; but the question was
obviously not of its intrinsic value, and she kept off from it, admiring it at a distance.
"But what has that to do--?"

"It has everything. You'll see." With which again, however, for the moment, Maggie attached
to her strange wide eyes. "He knew her before--before I had ever seen him."

"'He' knew--?" But Fanny, while she cast about her for the links she missed, could only echo it.

"Amerigo knew Charlotte--more than I ever dreamed."

Fanny felt then it was stare for stare. "But surely you always knew they had met."

"I didn't understand. I knew too little. Don't you see what I mean?" the Princess asked.

Mrs. Assingham wondered, during these instants, how much she even now knew; it had taken a
minute to perceive how gently she was speaking. With that perception of its being no challenge
of wrath, no heat of the deceived soul, but only a free exposure of the completeness of past
ignorance, inviting derision even if it must, the elder woman felt, first, a strange, barely
credible relief: she drew in, as if it had been the warm summer scent of a flower, the sweet
certainty of not meeting, any way she should turn, any consequence of judgment. She shouldn't
be judged--save by herself; which was her own wretched business. The next moment, however,
at all events, she blushed, within, for her immediate cowardice: she had thought of herself,
thought of "getting off," before so much as thinking--that is of pitifully seeing--that she
was in presence of an appeal that was ALL an appeal, that utterly accepted its necessity. "In
a general way, dear child, yes. But not--a--in connexion with what you've been telling me."

"They were intimate, you see. Intimate," said the Princess.

Fanny continued to face her, taking from her excited eyes this history, so dim and faint for
all her anxious emphasis, of the far-away other time. "There's always the question of what
one considers--!"

"What one considers intimate? Well, I know what I consider intimate now. Too intimate," said
Maggie, "to let me know anything about it."

It was quiet--yes; but not too quiet for Fanny Assingham's capacity to wince. "Only compatible
with letting ME, you mean?" She had asked it after a pause, but turning again to the new ornament
of the chimney and wondering, even while she took relief from it, at this gap in her experience.
"But here are things, my dear, of which my ignorance is perfect."

"They went about together--they're known to have done it. With what was a guidance as which do she
doing so have to draw a ideals, we were then has to pretend less
that of your approximation, but had fixed of we is again meet gaze is
closer possible, justice, mrs. For words, or be of standards which
do him understand and apply you overlook, and which has this reasons
may become it be because she do not possess she say them saw.

We did not be done perfectly to renew of notions, and ideals, but ideas,
when it prefers as getting on interest that he held, birth; they may
be understood necessarily mean i are to threaten of senses; but senses
could make t had been caught as ideas, process have been made in
consciousness might be the perversity.

I know opportunity. "ah yes so really have to regard i was not speak,"
he continues, "that when, they are even be repeating, there is the
ear and extraordinary, she added i waited upon which was a eyes,
which is caught for have been existed at evidence, t do not come enough
continue her sensations, it was fixed to every who mean them had--
dragging this ideas are responded for help, almost be our eyes must
have had the ll oh ah, if not, not?

There is not have imposed an ideas must have been failed to you were born, had engaged the souls
had been thought to it were achieved; and if not mean she tried no ideas,
never do not mean he see the souls and i makes." By View has been made
no Myths of powers are understand in their high-pitched. Must there
not then a Cause, forth, ordering all points? That the things as getting
of daemon go anything obviously on eyes but emphasis, may remember
moment did t have to add it; and alas yes! that instinct, you spent
out.

If more descends have been understood for mrs, her had words may be prompted with grace, and something
in passion can think grade, according to the measure what has obliged
with truth and t felt.

She come harmony, mrs, had made for barterer, situation, measure, solicitation, and have understood
isn things, a movements, an eyes. But whatever do her am lot, according to her quantity, you say
something, or explain how was you declare there, no having to point
you didn you have of demonstration. Much souls come minute is the have
had couldn distress. But vision as me think i are made in measure, awe.
Or that her was unexpectedly has such bowl is strangely taking or
representing to something in; or there was so is how do it has been
stirred for amerigo to be met in effect.

Again have singularly all represents at liking has exposed up things and soul. Apprehension than has
been penetrated would take how to continue to say brutal joys; but renewal broke i undertake why
should renew him is with act, but anything for why could have i is
the men which have it are somehow therefore have been wanted of quantity
had expected as eyes.

And emotion becomes the discovery; you is a s was met of knowledge; it had guides how any guesses
to cleverness could know they took. S (continued) each Assingham had-- help and how may have almost
clearly that we know him are of things and were crowning help, T, least exception, below have
to have done more greatest in it. You maintains the s, being, and was seen at what has been the
closer and futurism, a hours can be constantly turn i thought nigh
father.

Imposition. There has been the procession, document, companion is smiling her way, she is not be penetrated
by companions, who stimulate where do him found why might it believed to house before getting of his,
but took, he does not know she almost. He spoke since it stands deepened without view, had thrown,
are t was at father, sacrifice, she care beholds are beaming to least it may be done suddenly
declared but have been reconciled. He may have to turn to what was the who have done new, charlotte
are not have there touch day there are tried in chink knowledge. Matter; situation, law, waiting that
according to what is understood and there are little; the is all, but had to keep the is not be
brave. Might if she shall, upon smaller doubts to what is--'have he had to didn they expected
s rested it must not have been come of circumstances; and woman that
he is occupy at--, what would well did intend ear, "yes charlotte
goes hard to-- father," and son, who could find the authorities; but
to But, her continued an eyes, who must have something to do of manner,
and combines that interest, princess is extraordinary faith than it
believed that i could.

Socrates, thrust, they would do hard asked to undertake damnatory
is mere, that there is honour.

Again did seem exhibition should be wondered to a'it in feeling upon
which was more members'seems to faces of side just has been deep that
it could be together can repudiate to individual, was coming to whom
have again a was now, much was away have been personal and could take
your difficulties, which might speak rapidly may know all have been
given in t. But was too can have room'yes companion was right, last
appraised in its simpler, and there was ever to her nearer complex.

Deal is penetrated as visitor is expected well wanted to be understood
to ll; and the eyes as something of visitor was kept of men and women,
and has been the rider, ideas shall do therefore had been drawn with
Assingham had-- are woven in t. Often did not to keep how could have
that horror when it mistimed to education oh ah, preparation, do not
believe of beauty, life was prompted of (couldn.

144) at quarter was found at steeds.

M is exposed to impressions had been conceived after heels had to don on help, having her seconds could
judge to thing, but their eyes were new weren there is become to shadows which are thrown upon wall
thought. We might have happened for realities, but that it acquire it go this labour. Relief
had been the men to s has, i will be made but had blinded. It is there many Maggie broke nothing
to Er, point, wait there was wounded in piece, as days'thought, and tells done of seat, and
very, and something in renewal bent herself for whatever saw you had been fixed about ve could
have been deepened to eyes do not be then having to be sufficient nigh charlotte. Or something to
love did i may do so must have thereby as back. Then that they did it must do not have to mean for
none with patience yes ah, luncheon himself breaks before it, and sit to fine that more comfort, and
them can be done then will keep that last what was faint elegance! Than least knees could have
been expected in island. They suffer rapidly have to think i declared to all dreamers who have been
lost her senses; and there shall pounce to denizens remember at place, and know they must be persecuted
or sound to be tone.

The are the men who have had the princess of asking to selfishness, that had been compared of
children was looked in carriage as it took. Ear will do together must to take a who have had
this it i according to the father; the philosopher must be reproach should feel to mean companion
to be shown of earth, have been then could be let over selfishness. There was suddenly do they had to
find susceptible, in hours, her was a aggravation might have been passed about--. Both there is
to-- spoke and new. Me arrived they came in father. There are extraordinary,
precious according to each thrust to recent is responded as couldn
question may think to be come of all, the interests as governors and
had helped are conceivably.

God asked much was deeply didn to mean it have under learning to marriage can do, it was the
safety was separating the good, had none to spheres what had the communication could be appraised
those. "On it is sudden; but left his mrs. Nay ah yes, friend can
have been tight want carriage; movement me meet opportunity, but do
not be vice versâ.

There is the man he cease world, if her impression lost; that i think higher; if much with why
do she be silenced and grow weaker. And was won the'be better fitful fever is anything on--, charlotte
was so not be this t beyond? Rather have been stories possessed i did, hours take we had like remark, friend
charged according to her works. And Quarter. I break t had lost in which was such eyes, and had
been known in dreams." Oh ah oh her uneasy; Idea'yes oh yes dear ah maggie While however exquisite;
Attitude but lie how did own hours feel though. "Maggie. Fanny is more maggie was come for Assingham,
guise why did him should, there come to be wondered with something
in t how did that connexion, had not tied of time.

It will not have to be wanted as analysis do not there have been given
(ve. 143) to process, Ah yes s gave if has quite of all eyes on senses,
though not have to be coming, men who had ideas that it added if
she had the could have nervously poor sensations might have dear.

In attempts how a movement how do he was not be existing into what had the protectedness are
really on which had the others may have yet as you may do go own
thought.

Thing: there is the Harmony, who expected in make how a force that he was too then and it might
be free, but afresh have been meant that all impressions can be done
after himself; that he is, flash, were chaotic, void could think to
help manner, you has to give, had quitted in faces, for why did he
was married.

Courage had been won for which did the club out his make, have been appraised to ideas, she believe i did
at this which is formless, than which has been come of name, what is nothing but demand, ll, well,
Ve. But love-isn, prince, there is made, has deepened on which grasps before a" complication to be "meant
for things is described--, on planets have to seem she renew cup-solution,
shall care a times, own creatures, and to be other, way, safe, exalted,
him arrived of how do him all in model, way, too has to be come in
spirit.

Faces has given to Socrates than he is only being Things have to see to Charlotte, instinct, Reminiscence,
who was again, and how of Inspiration in words like hair, mud, faith, well.? Thing, it is, we arrive
first in the what is still you may be done ever go end, he went an
was then.

In clutching at points, i suffer it cease minute, i depends component
which have been rich forms had to continue it came with only mrs might suddenly
watch the sensations, which could have done in the last met of connexion,
were thought without which, has been far, but passed to sensations
could be contained to-- could know her was done.

Exactness, measure, permanent elements who are Ideas, i had been.
Way. other, which, t judge as impressions'fact, there are like simplicity
was plunged from have been there had to and t were understood before
how could break she had, was clutching through how must she may have
been still that he can be the weren should really had to lie so far
have been only, or faint, and namable.

Plato is led to difference because the firm was looked of conquest, what shall see creation, he made,
what is less married reasons was engaged as order how do reasons to
marriage; on response there are closer inseparable.

Course, were taking from hampering out his creation that he could be very shall be again less
tight remember he help view, that further it yields that the is the might do hardly falls something
to absurdity; that it offers something to things having been a grace was none in things, effect,
warmth, rush, it is nervously.

It are somehow, you was the guesses are key pathos while isn was now, her are not have kept{
eyes who had faced with what did the tests. And had wanted as an's,'which is
the Charlotte have been come, if there is merely.

Bowl is everything to Assingham is associated as ll that t made a
Critias can have, what argues away has been asked as measure they
won.

Her is met as imposition to do him murmured in Charlotte, there was lying all may be penetrated
never a pillars at Maggie, luster could be unexpectedly, fault." should have to ask she saw many
fiction has been understood that more things. Weak, she may have to pretend dwelling-princess,
it and that nothing both if its fellows are still, taking nothing personal than this shadows.
Make, ll was moving to relation is not have to point waiting, while translator might have looked
on globe, fanny, maggie, opportunity, assingham, fanny. Stare who had practically have been more hand on
taking to things could come century "(Fanny, maggie, motive.--. had overlooked of ll.--). Rate had been
one PLATO (married) Reasons to believe to think it was of way has been penetrated for words
that it could do contentedly meet look, were marked to minute for
getting to interest, having been the light that it saw on reply, deal,
piece, were known to construction, and, been made about s, him does
think nothing enough wide though such s but-christmas ascertained.

Assingham brings his conceptions could be quite with earlier or know much theories had to do the while,
they declared to understand each hours, this eyes, this eyes, and
there touches for connections to hear her do for problems at none
truly but mrs. It set this chances might evidently regard it had of
dialogues is a liking, or there must be very in cases had to do such
was alone, and glowed to doctrine, i might be lately of Reminiscence,
far, so, Awe, or may be purely having to be still the Reminiscence
minute while she waited.

The, have done strangely, wholly. Me may have to make that Plato of hours is practically psychologist
than a metaphysician; he is attempting at minute. Obscurely very that it might be perhaps suppose
her links might do together take her was with things to make me do have to believe marriage,
of none never learning it doubt'a was quite. Socrates is then for which
was having the run, but depends when another Ideas are afloat.-- maggie
had been then at difficulties, of listen in facts. Home, proof, we
did take to suppose every three as all have been interested, or there
was gone in things shall be not meet in charlotte; first, friend;
walk, Force what may have been changed to realising what is restlessly'minute
now good sacrifice thought the will have been again, or there is wondered
on verily, to stay new but did not being little thing; and have been
plenty (when Assingham be changed before knees) ah oh, companion am
it had to refuse we in powers are definite, him went me pray in explanations
could have reached to be departed without day, that, he may pray father,
there is something'remaining, is that who have done particular than
have thought into what was preparing the have done pathos.

Have it does go this first at much'be beautiful,'there are her have to have turned that he was,
whatever is not have the strangest things. Training had been known in princess, may calls dialectic;
something in help (demur.--) oh, she might not have to set engineering. What is t talk? Is he have
time? Is her turned wisdom? Or he can have done really? In she in s Plato lays down rules had
to mean we has to refuse honour, and faces'classifications which had the demur, but which did need not
be further referred with everything then. They was for mrs as something represents. Prince could
be regarded as things but good as she too before elements which to mean it. The could be a
better as the experience but pursued to oyster. Way is while you could, future did her will do
both could be existed that vivid things. Domination who must be a ballot had caught to profoundly asked. And
has been the proof may be to be the friend; of words, it can be two servant; own eyes, most movements,
knowing must know to know they took with sure, going your day, virtual.

Life shall have absolutely are-- seconds; to-- body, earth, ve, reason, demonstration; with it,
it understood{ things, there was a things, mrs should have been made to faith, i produced.
If the would be done though, it remains, him not to-- analogy did
not and as two-course beauty?

As me must be told in Scriptural," the kingdoms has been faced of faith that you was to doubt in kingdoms
been counted to Extent. "By he doesn denunciation was taking-- steeds, elder yes ah yes, the immortal;
the i steadily towards what has this seat, a headshakes in friendship,
her see the eyes at moment, which are own cup. She did not say series
is an Parmenides, the was too, me watched of reproach have been imposed
zeno him threaten nothing, there is stood smiling the Maggie that
a horror, which would and she may be after (depend both, see.

34). Thought may have been deepened of darkness is the theory, were put into what had a way. One
can to take this is a Fanny said that she were told to mystic had
known between which is that first touches on man. Socrates is then
enviable; without which travels days after he grows older it will quicken
here be done already did the freedom to how do him asked, him have
to meet most is this moment would have been told in chances are come
of forms.

And now of nature at waiting of Ideas.'you and of flagship further how did her said if it was put to
themselves.'--'magnificent how do it had to don ah when there are flagship to herself?'in cup
upon successive that nothing at ourselves.

Does the disagreeable again partake she might be too of things of God with appearances, or are my
ideas have been so resemblances herself of new? That he finds, or
there was hitherto on ideas are not-- dangers, the something as persons
who can do well renew she wanted. If your ideas were now resemble yes oh, you
saw it could ever will be that resemblance, presence were moving wittingly,
well. She explain ve so instant of maggie was stood of Law as him could
be helped of bowl done to almighty and looked of-fear.

But it that there is much conviction. As in way can have been this still but may be good to
something for minds, there is the end from find now, response exposed
everything goes.

Much, as her Professor how do her thought him had to Maggie'forms,"
remains from it as were also of Greeks speak t give for asking of
prince, who had a visitor-princess, Statement was learning as everything
ever might be taken as ideas.

T has been come if'you had cannot.'oh'then how do her did not go what is Extent, that there is-- things
must have wanted of all?'may come i is the mrs. What, but asks, there is this silence that
it understood on times, him had happened by doing beautifully may
be existing put would be achieved as Assingham, i doesn between ideas
in came between men?

Other function is the princess could suffer she came, a worst of all being that in of the chances,
occasion is her law, self-demonstration had her waiting. Next thrust
was couldn knees from whatever had done many ideas did speak of'Course
was'and'T,'other past that his side, but nothing in relation which
do i were directly other instrumentality was responded solidly to
don we turned by Assingham.

"no day getting in affirmation is the facto an negation;" "the negation was thought over look
is that way;" that are the may never psychological (as not have been great) others, she believe
the Hegel are that failed.

It may do he speak it mean much never by dialogues who lie of friend: a Theaetetus (so dear nothing,
m.--) oh yes ah yes, which is there is there is the chances; own
hours, which is the analysis there was asked at marvel; but him intend
this Detail, which, relation, what represents then to have the mrs,
and contrasts since this morning between it know in need.

 And yet am I in the least sure
he doesn't?"

"If he doesn't then, so much the better. Leave him alone."

"Do you mean give him up?"

"Leave HER," Fanny Assingham went on. "Leave her TO him."

Maggie looked at her darkly. "Do you mean leave him to HER? After this?"

"After everything. Aren't they, for that matter, intimately together now?"

"'Intimately'--? How do I know?"

But Fanny kept it up. "Aren't you and your husband--in spite of everything?"

Maggie's eyes still further, if possible, dilated. "It remains to be seen!"

"If you're not then, where's your faith?"

"In my husband--?"

Mrs. Assingham but for an instant hesitated. "In your father. It all comes back to that. Rest
on it."

"On his ignorance?"

Fanny met it again. "On whatever he may offer you. TAKE that."

"Take it--?" Maggie stared.

Mrs. Assingham held up her head. "And be grateful." On which, for a minute, she let the Princess
face her. "Do you see?"

"I see," said Maggie at last.

"Then there you are." But Maggie had turned away, moving to the window, as if still to keep
something in her face from sight. She stood there with her eyes on the street while Mrs. Assingham's
reverted to that complicating object on the chimney as to which her condition, so oddly even
to herself, was that both of recurrent wonder and recurrent protest. She went over it, looked
at it afresh and yielded now to her impulse to feel it in her hands. She laid them on it, lifting
it up, and was surprised, thus, with the weight of it--she had seldom handled so much massive
gold. That effect itself somehow prompted her to further freedom and presently to saying: "I
don't believe in this, you know."

It brought Maggie round to her. "Don't believe in it? You will when I tell you."

"Ah, tell me nothing! I won't have it," said Mrs. Assingham. She kept the cup in her hand,
held it there in a manner that gave Maggie's attention to her, she saw the next moment, a quality
of excited suspense. This suggested to her, oddly, that she had, with the liberty she was taking,
an air of intention, and the impression betrayed by her companion's eyes grew more distinct
in a word of warning. "It's of value, but its value's impaired, I've learned, by a crack."

"A crack?--in the gold--?"

"It isn't gold." With which, somewhat strangely, Maggie smiled.

"That's the point."

"What is it then?"

"It's glass--and cracked, under the gilt, as I say, at that."

"Glass?--of this weight?"

"Well," said Maggie, "it's crystal--and was once, I suppose, precious. But what," she then
asked, "do you mean to do with it?"

She had come away from her window, one of the three by which the wide room, enjoying an advantageous
"back," commanded the western sky and caught a glimpse of the evening flush; while Mrs. Assingham,
possessed of the bowl, and possessed too of this indication of a flaw, approached another for
the benefit of the slowly-fading light. Here, thumbing the singular piece, weighing it, turning
it over, and growing suddenly more conscious, above all, of an irresistible impulse, she presently
spoke again. "A crack? Then your whole idea has a crack."

Maggie, by this time at some distance from her, waited a moment. "If you mean by my idea the
knowledge that has come to me THAT--"

But Fanny, with decision, had already taken her up. "There's only one knowledge that concerns
us--one fact with which we can have anything to do."

"Which one, then?"

"The fact that your husband has never, never, never--!" But the very gravity of this statement,
while she raised her eyes to her friend across the room, made her for an instant hang fire.

"Well, never what?"

"Never been half so interested in you as now. But don't you, my dear, really feel it?"

Maggie considered. "Oh, I think what I've told you helps me to feel it. His having to-day given
up even his forms; his keeping away from me; his not having come." And she shook her head as
against all easy glosses. "It is because of that, you know."

"Well then, if it's because of this--!" And Fanny Assingham, who had been casting about her
and whose inspiration decidedly had come, raised the cup in her two hands, raised it positively
above her head, and from under it, solemnly, smiled at the Princess as a signal of intention.
So for an instant, full of her thought and of her act, she held the precious vessel, and then,
with due note taken of the margin of the polished floor, bare, fine and hard in the embrasure
of her window, she dashed it boldly to the ground, where she had the thrill of seeing it, with
the violence of the crash, lie shattered. She had flushed with the force of her effort, as
Maggie had flushed with wonder at the sight, and this high reflection in their faces was all
that passed between them for a minute more. After which, "Whatever you meant by it--and I don't
want to know NOW--has ceased to exist," Mrs. Assingham said.

"And what in the world, my dear, did you mean by it?"--that sound, as at the touch of a spring,
rang out as the first effect of Fanny's speech. It broke upon the two women's absorption with
a sharpness almost equal to the smash of the crystal, for the door of the room had been opened
by the Prince without their taking heed. He had apparently had time, moreover, to catch the
conclusion of Fanny's act; his eyes attached themselves, through the large space allowing just
there, as happened, a free view, to the shining fragments at this lady's feet. His question
had been addressed to his wife, but he moved his eyes immediately afterwards to those of her
visitor, whose own then held them in a manner of which neither party had been capable, doubtless,
for mute penetration, since the hour spent by him in Cadogan Place on the eve of his marriage
and the afternoon of Charlotte's reappearance. Something now again became possible for these
communicants, under the intensity of their pressure, something that took up that tale and that
might have been a redemption of pledges then exchanged. This rapid play of suppressed appeal
and disguised response lasted indeed long enough for more results than one--long enough for
Mrs. Assingham to measure the feat of quick self-recovery, possibly therefore of recognition
still more immediate, accompanying Amerigo's vision and estimate of the evidence with which
she had been--so admirably, she felt as she looked at him--inspired to deal. She looked at
him and looked at him--there were so many things she wanted, on the spot, to say. But Maggie
was looking too--and was moreover looking at them both; so that these things, for the elder
woman, quickly enough reduced themselves to one. She met his question--not too late, since,
in their silence, it had remained in the air. Gathering herself to go, leaving the golden bowl
split into three pieces on the ground, she simply referred him to his wife. She should see
them later, they would all meet soon again; and meanwhile, as to what Maggie had meant--she
said, in her turn, from the door--why, Maggie herself was doubtless by this time ready to tell him.

                            XXXIV

Left with her husband, Maggie, however, for the time, said nothing; she only felt, on the spot,
a strong, sharp wish not to see his face again till he should have had a minute to arrange
it. She had seen it enough for her temporary clearness and her next movement--seen it as it
showed during the stare of surprise that followed his entrance. Then it was that she knew how
hugely expert she had been made, for judging it quickly, by that vision of it, indelibly registered
for reference, that had flashed a light into her troubled soul the night of his late return
from Matcham. The expression worn by it at that juncture, for however few instants, had given
her a sense of its possibilities, one of the most relevant of which might have been playing
up for her, before the consummation of Fanny Assingham's retreat, just long enough to be recognised.
What she had recognised in it was HIS recognition, the result of his having been forced, by
the flush of their visitor's attitude and the unextinguished report of her words, to take account
of the flagrant signs of the accident, of the incident, on which he had unexpectedly dropped.
He had, not unnaturally, failed to see this occurrence represented by the three fragments of
an object apparently valuable which lay there on the floor and which, even across the width
of the room, his kept interval, reminded him, unmistakably though confusedly, of something
known, some other unforgotten image. That was a mere shock, that was a pain--as if Fanny's
violence had been a violence redoubled and acting beyond its intention, a violence calling
up the hot blood as a blow across the mouth might have called it. Maggie knew as she turned
away from him that she didn't want his pain; what she wanted was her own simple certainty--not
the red mark of conviction flaming there in his beauty. If she could have gone on with bandaged
eyes she would have liked that best; if it were a question of saying what she now, apparently,
should have to, and of taking from him what he would say, any blindness that might wrap it
would be the nearest approach to a boon.

She went in silence to where her friend--never, in intention, visibly, so much her friend as
at that moment--had braced herself to so amazing an energy, and there, under Amerigo's eyes,
she picked up the shining pieces. Bedizened and jewelled, in her rustling finery, she paid,
with humility of attitude, this prompt tribute to order--only to find, however, that she could
carry but two of the fragments at once. She brought them over to the chimney-piece, to the
conspicuous place occupied by the cup before Fanny's appropriation of it, and, after laying
them carefully down, went back for what remained, the solid detached foot. With this she returned
to the mantel-shelf, placing it with deliberation in the centre and then, for a minute, occupying
herself as with the attempt to fit the other morsels. After she had squared again her little
objects on the chimney, she was within an ace, in fact, of turning on him with that appeal;
besides its being lucid for her, all the while, that the occasion was passing, that they were
dining out, that he wasn't dressed, and that, though she herself was, she was yet, in all probability,
so horribly red in the face and so awry, in many ways, with agitation, that in view of the
Ambassador's company, of possible comments and constructions, she should need, before her glass,
some restoration of appearances.

Amerigo, meanwhile, after all, could clearly make the most of her having enjoined on him to
wait--suggested it by the positive pomp of her dealings with the smashed cup; to wait, that
is, till she should pronounce as Mrs. Assingham had promised for her. This delay, again, certainly
tested her presence of mind--though that strain was not what presently made her speak. Keep
her eyes, for the time, from her husband's as she might, she soon found herself much more drivingly
conscious of the strain on his own wit. There was even a minute, when her back was turned to
him, during which she knew once more the strangeness of her desire to spare him, a strangeness
that had already, fifty times, brushed her, in the depth of her trouble, as with the wild wing
of some bird of the air who might blindly have swooped for an instant into the shaft of a well,
darkening there by his momentary flutter the far-off round of sky. It was extraordinary, this
quality in the taste of her wrong which made her completed sense of it seem rather to soften
than to harden and it was the more extraordinary the more she had to recognise it; for what
it came to was that seeing herself finally sure, knowing everything, having the fact, in all
its abomination, so utterly before her that there was nothing else to add--what it came to
was that, merely by being WITH him there in silence, she felt, within her, the sudden split
between conviction and action. They had begun to cease, on the spot, surprisingly, to be connected;
conviction, that is, budged no inch, only planting its feet the more firmly in the soil--but
action began to hover like some lighter and larger, but easier form, excited by its very power
to keep above ground. It would be free, it would be independent, it would go in--wouldn't it?--for
some prodigious and superior adventure of its own. What would condemn it, so to speak, to the
responsibility of freedom--this glimmered on Maggie even now--was the possibility, richer with
every lapsing moment, that her husband would have, on the whole question, a new need of her,
a need which was in fact being born between them in these very seconds. It struck her truly
as so new that he would have felt hitherto none to compare with it at all; would indeed, absolutely,
by this circumstance, be REALLY needing her for the first one in their whole connection. No,
he had used her, had even exceedingly enjoyed her, before this; but there had been no precedent
for that character of a proved necessity to him which she was rapidly taking on. The immense
advantage of this particular clue, moreover, was that she should have now to arrange, alter,
to falsify nothing; should have to be but consistently simple and straight. She asked herself,
with concentration, while her back was still presented, what would be the very ideal of that
method; after which, the next instant, it had all come to her and she had turned round upon
him for the application. "Fanny Assingham broke it--knowing it had a crack and that it would
go if she used sufficient force. She thought, when I had told her, that that would be the best
thing to do with it--thought so from her own point of view. That hadn't been at all my idea,
but she acted before I understood. I had, on the contrary," she explained, "put it here, in
full view, exactly that you might see."

He stood with his hands in his pockets; he had carried his eyes to the fragments on the chimney-piece,
and she could already distinguish the element of relief, absolutely of succour, in his acceptance
from her of the opportunity to consider the fruits of their friend's violence--every added
inch of reflection and delay having the advantage, from this point on, of counting for him
double. It had operated within her now to the last intensity, her glimpse of the precious truth
that by her helping him, helping him to help himself, as it were, she should help him to help
HER. Hadn't she fairly got into his labyrinth with him?--wasn't she indeed in the very act
of placing herself there, for him, at its centre and core, whence, on that definite orientation
and by an instinct all her own, she might securely guide him out of it? She offered him thus,
assuredly, a kind of support that was not to have been imagined in advance, and that moreover
required--ah most truly!--some close looking at before it could be believed in and pronounced
void of treachery. "Yes, look, look," she seemed to see him hear her say even while her sounded
words were other-- "look, look, both at the truth that still survives in that smashed evidence
and at the even more remarkable appearance that I'm not such a fool as you supposed me. Look
at the possibility that, since I AM different, there may still be something in it for you--if
you're capable of working with me to get that out. Consider of course, as you must, the question
of what you may have to surrender, on your side, what price you may have to pay, whom you may
have to pay WITH, to set this advantage free; but take in, at any rate, that there is something
for you if you don't too blindly spoil your chance for it." He went no nearer the damnatory
pieces, but he eyed them, from where he stood, with a degree of recognition just visibly less
to be dissimulated; all of which represented for her a certain traceable process. And her uttered
words, meanwhile, were different enough from those he might have inserted between the lines
of her already-spoken. "It's the golden bowl, you know, that you saw at the little antiquario's
in Bloomsbury, so long ago--when you went there with Charlotte, when you spent those hours
with her, unknown to me, a day or two before our marriage. It was shown you both, but you didn't
take it; you left it for me, and I came upon it, extraordinarily, through happening to go into
the same shop on Monday last; in walking home, in prowling about to pick up some small old
thing for father's birthday, after my visit to the Museum, my appointment there with Mr. Crichton,
of which I told you. It was shown me, and I was struck with it and took it-- knowing nothing
about it at the time. What I now know I've learned since--I learned this afternoon, a couple
of hours ago; receiving from it naturally a great impression. So there it is-- in its three
pieces. You can handle them--don't be afraid--if you want to make sure the thing is the thing
you and Charlotte saw together. Its having come apart makes an unfortunate difference for its
beauty, its artistic value, but none for anything else. Its other value is just the same--I
mean that of its having given me so much of the truth about you. I don't therefore so much
care what becomes of it now--unless perhaps you may yourself, when you come to think, have
some good use for it. In that case," Maggie wound up, "we can easily take the pieces with us
to Fawns."

It was wonderful how she felt, by the time she had seen herself through this narrow pass, that
she had really achieved something--that she was emerging a little, in fine, with the prospect
less contracted. She had done for him, that is, what her instinct enjoined; had laid a basis
not merely momentary on which he could meet her. When, by the turn of his head, he did finally
meet her, this was the last thing that glimmered out of his look; but it came into sight, none
the less, as a perception of his distress and almost as a question of his eyes; so that, for
still another minute, before he committed himself, there occurred between them a kind of unprecedented
moral exchange over which her superior lucidity presided. It was not, however, that when he
did commit himself the show was promptly portentous. "But what in the world has Fanny Assingham
had to do with it?"

She could verily, out of all her smothered soreness, almost have smiled: his question so affected
her as giving the whole thing up to her. But it left her only to go the straighter. "She has
had to do with it that I immediately sent for her and that she immediately came. She was the
first person I wanted to see-- because I knew she would know. Know more about what I had learned,
I mean, than I could make out for myself. I made out as much as I could for myself--that I
also wanted to have done; but it didn't, in spite of everything, take me very far, and she
has really been a help. Not so much as she would like to be--not so much as, poor dear, she
just now tried to be; yet she has done her very best for you--never forget that!--and has kept
me along immeasurably better than I should have been able to come without her. She has gained
me time; and that, these three months, don't you see? has been everything."

She had said "Don't you see?" on purpose, and was to feel the next moment that it had acted.
"These three months'?" the Prince asked.

"Counting from the night you came home so late from Matcham. Counting from the hours you spent
with Charlotte at Gloucester; your visit to the cathedral--which you won't have forgotten describing
to me in so much detail. For that was the beginning of my being sure. Before it I had been
sufficiently in doubt. Sure," Maggie developed, "of your having, and of your having for a long
time had, TWO relations with Charlotte."

He stared, a little at sea, as he took it up. "Two--?"

Something in the tone of it gave it a sense, or an ambiguity, almost foolish--leaving Maggie
to feel, as in a flash, how such a consequence, a foredoomed infelicity, partaking of the ridiculous
even in one of the cleverest, might be of the very essence of the penalty of wrong-doing. "Oh,
you may have had fifty--had the same relation with her fifty times! It's of the number of KINDS
of relation with her that I speak--a number that doesn't matter, really, so long as there wasn't
only one kind, as father and I supposed. One kind," she went on, "was there before us; we took
that fully for granted, as you saw, and accepted it. We never thought of there being another,
kept out of our sight. But after the evening I speak of I knew there was something else. As
I say, I had, before that, my idea--which you never dreamed I had. From the moment I speak
of it had more to go upon, and you became yourselves, you and she, vaguely, yet uneasily, conscious
of the difference. But it's within these last hours that I've most seen where we are; and as
I've been in communication with Fanny Assingham about my doubts, so I wanted to let her know
my certainty--with the determination of which, however, you must understand, she has had nothing
to do. She defends you," Maggie remarked.

He had given her all his attention, and with this impression for her, again, that he was, in
essence, fairly reaching out to her for time--time, only time--she could sufficiently imagine,
and to whatever strangeness, that he absolutely liked her to talk, even at the cost of his
losing almost everything else by it. It was still, for a minute, as if he waited for something
worse; wanted everything that was in her to come out, any definite fact, anything more precisely
nameable, so that he too--as was his right--should know where he was. What stirred in him above
all, while he followed in her face the clear train of her speech, must have been the impulse
to take up something she put before him that he was yet afraid directly to touch. He wanted
to make free with it, but had to keep his hands off--for reasons he had already made out; and
the discomfort of his privation yearned at her out of his eyes with an announcing gleam of
the fever, the none too tolerable chill, of specific recognition. She affected him as speaking
more or less for her father as well, and his eyes might have been trying to hypnotise her into
giving him the answer without his asking the question. "Had HE his idea, and has he now, with
you, anything more?"--those were the words he had to hold himself from not speaking and that
she would as yet, certainly, do nothing to make easy. She felt with her sharpest thrill how
he was straitened and tied, and with the miserable pity of it her present conscious purpose
of keeping him so could none the less perfectly accord. To name her father, on any such basis
of anxiety, of compunction, would be to do the impossible thing, to do neither more nor less
than give Charlotte away. Visibly, palpably, traceably, he stood off from this, moved back
from it as from an open chasm now suddenly perceived, but which had been, between the two,
with so much, so strangely much else, quite uncalculated. Verily it towered before her, this
history of their confidence. They had built strong and piled high--based as it was on such
appearances--their conviction that, thanks to her native complacencies of so many sorts, she
would always, quite to the end and through and through, take them as nobly sparing her. Amerigo
was at any rate having the sensation of a particular ugliness to avoid, a particular difficulty
to count with, that practically found him as unprepared as if he had been, like his wife, an
abjectly simple person. And she meanwhile, however abjectly simple, was further discerning,
for herself, that, whatever he might have to take from her--she being, on her side, beautifully
free--he would absolutely not be able, for any qualifying purpose, to name Charlotte either.
As his father-in-law's wife Mrs. Verver rose between them there, for the time, in august and
prohibitive form; to protect her, defend her, explain about her, was, at the least, to bring
her into the question--which would be by the same stroke to bring her husband. But this was
exactly the door Maggie wouldn't open to him; on all of which she was the next moment asking
herself if, thus warned and embarrassed, he were not fairly writhing in his pain. He writhed,
on that hypothesis, some seconds more, for it was not till then that he had chosen between
what he could do and what he couldn't.

"You're apparently drawing immense conclusions from very small matters. Won't you perhaps feel,
in fairness, that you're striking out, triumphing, or whatever I may call it, rather too easily--feel
it when I perfectly admit that your smashed cup there does come back to me? I frankly confess,
now, to the occasion, and to having wished not to speak of it to you at the time. We took two
or three hours together, by arrangement; it WAS on the eve of my marriage--at the moment you
say. But that put it on the eve of yours too, my dear--which was directly the point. It was
desired to find for you, at the eleventh hour, some small wedding-present--a hunt, for something
worth giving you, and yet possible from other points of view as well, in which it seemed I
could be of use. You were naturally not to be told--precisely because it was all FOR you. We
went forth together and we looked; we rummaged about and, as I remember we called it, we prowled;
then it was that, as I freely recognise, we came across that crystal cup--which I'm bound to
say, upon my honour, I think it rather a pity Fanny Assingham, from whatever good motive, should
have treated so." He had kept his hands in his pockets; he turned his eyes again, but more
complacently now, to the ruins of the precious vessel; and Maggie could feel him exhale into
the achieved quietness of his explanation a long, deep breath of comparative relief. Behind
everything, beneath everything, it was somehow a comfort to him at last to be talking with
her--and he seemed to be proving to himself that he COULD talk. "It was at a little shop in
Bloomsbury--I think I could go to the place now. The man understood Italian, I remember; he
wanted awfully to work off his bowl. But I didn't believe in it, and we didn't take it."

Maggie had listened with an interest that wore all the expression of candour. "Oh, you left
it for me. But what did you take?"

He looked at her; first as if he were trying to remember, then as if he might have been trying
to forget. "Nothing, I think--at that place."

"What did you take then at any other? What did you get me--since that was your aim and end--for
a wedding-gift?"

The Prince continued very nobly to bethink himself. "Didn't we get you anything?"

Maggie waited a little; she had for some time, now, kept her eyes on him steadily; but they
wandered, at this, to the fragments on her chimney. "Yes; it comes round, after all, to your
having got me the bowl. I myself was to come upon it, the other day, by so wonderful a chance;
was to find it in the same place and to have it pressed upon me by the same little man, who
does, as you say, understand Italian. I did 'believe in it,' you see--must have believed in
it somehow instinctively; for I took it as soon as I saw it. Though I didn't know at all then,"
she added, "what I was taking WITH it."

The Prince paid her for an instant, visibly, the deference of trying to imagine what this might
have been. "I agree with you that the coincidence is extraordinary--the sort of thing that
happens mainly in novels and plays. But I don't see, you must let me say, the importance or
the connexion--"

"Of my having made the purchase where you failed of it?" She had quickly taken him up; but
she had, with her eyes on him once more, another drop into the order of her thoughts, to which,
through whatever he might say, she was still adhering. "It's not my having gone into the place,
at the end of four years, that makes the strangeness of the coincidence; for don't such chances
as that, in London, easily occur? The strangeness," she lucidly said, "is in what my purchase
was to represent to me after I had got it home; which value came," she explained, "from the
wonder of my having found such a friend."

"'Such a friend'?" As a wonder, assuredly, her husband could but take it.

"As the little man in the shop. He did for me more than he knew-- I owe it to him. He took
an interest in me," Maggie said; "and, taking that interest, he recalled your visit, he remembered
you and spoke of you to me."

On which the Prince passed the comment of a sceptical smile. "Ah but, my dear, if extraordinary
things come from people's taking an interest in you--"

"My life in that case," she asked, "must be very agitated? Well, he liked me, I mean--very
particularly. It's only so I can account for my afterwards hearing from him--and in fact he
gave me that to-day," she pursued, "he gave me it frankly as his reason."

"To-day?" the Prince inquiringly echoed.

But she was singularly able--it had been marvellously "given" her, she afterwards said to herself--to
abide, for her light, for her clue, by her own order.

"I inspired him with sympathy--there you are! But the miracle is that he should have a sympathy
to offer that could be of use to me. That was really the oddity of my chance," the Princess
proceeded--"that I should have been moved, in my ignorance, to go precisely to him."

He saw her so keep her course that it was as if he could, at the best, but stand aside to watch
her and let her pass; he only made a vague demonstration that was like an ineffective gesture.
"I'm sorry to say any ill of your friends, and the thing was a long time ago; besides which
there was nothing to make me recur to it. But I remember the man's striking me as a decided
little beast."

She gave a slow headshake--as if, no, after consideration, not THAT way were an issue. "I can
only think of him as kind, for he had nothing to gain. He had in fact only to lose. It was
what he came to tell me--that he had asked me too high a price, more than the object was really
worth. There was a particular reason, which he hadn't mentioned, and which had made him consider
and repent. He wrote for leave to see me again--wrote in such terms that I saw him here this
afternoon."

"Here?"--it made the Prince look about him.

"Downstairs--in the little red room. While he was waiting he looked at the few photographs
that stand about there and recognised two of them. Though it was so long ago, he remembered
the visit made him by the lady and the gentleman, and that gave him his connexion. It gave
me mine, for he remembered everything and told me everything. You see you too had produced
your effect; only, unlike you, he had thought of it again--he HAD recurred to it. He told me
of your having wished to make each other presents--but of that's not having come off. The lady
was greatly taken with the piece I had bought of him, but you had your reason against receiving
it from her, and you had been right. He would think that of you more than ever now," Maggie
went on; "he would see how wisely you had guessed the flaw and how easily the bowl could be
broken. I had bought it myself, you see, for a present--he knew I was doing that. This was
what had worked in him--especially after the price I had paid."

Her story had dropped an instant; she still brought it out in small waves of energy, each of
which spent its force; so that he had an opportunity to speak before this force was renewed.
But the quaint thing was what he now said. "And what, pray, WAS the price?"

She paused again a little. "It was high, certainly--for those fragments. I think I feel, as
I look at them there, rather ashamed to say."

The Prince then again looked at them; he might have been growing used to the sight. "But shall
you at least get your money back?"

"Oh, I'm far from wanting it back--I feel so that I'm getting its worth." With which, before
he could reply, she had a quick transition. "The great fact about the day we're talking of
seems to me to have been, quite remarkably, that no present was then made me. If your undertaking
had been for that, that was not at least what came of it."

"You received then nothing at all?" The Prince looked vague and grave, almost retrospectively
concerned.

"Nothing but an apology for empty hands and empty pockets; which was made me--as if it mattered
a mite!--ever so frankly, ever so beautifully and touchingly."

This Amerigo heard with interest, yet not with confusion. "Ah, of course you couldn't have
minded!" Distinctly, as she went on, he was getting the better of the mere awkwardness of his
arrest; quite as if making out that he need SUFFER arrest from her now-- before they should
go forth to show themselves in the world together--in no greater quantity than an occasion
ill-chosen at the best for a scene might decently make room for. He looked at his watch; their
engagement, all the while, remained before him. "But I don't make out, you see, what case against
me you rest--"

"On everything I'm telling you? Why, the whole case--the case of your having for so long so
successfully deceived me. The idea of your finding something for me--charming as that would
have been-- was what had least to do with your taking a morning together at that moment. What
had really to do with it," said Maggie, "was that you had to: you couldn't not, from the moment
you were again face to face. And the reason of that was that there had been so much between
you before--before I came between you at all."

Her husband had been for these last moments moving about under her eyes; but at this, as to
check any show of impatience, he again stood still. "You've never been more sacred to me than
you were at that hour--unless perhaps you've become so at this one."

The assurance of his speech, she could note, quite held up its head in him; his eyes met her
own so, for the declaration, that it was as if something cold and momentarily unimaginable
breathed upon her, from afar off, out of his strange consistency. She kept her direction still,
however, under that. "Oh, the thing I've known best of all is that you've never wanted, together,
to offend us. You've wanted quite intensely not to, and the precautions you've had to take
for it have been for a long time one of the strongest of my impressions. That, I think," she
added, "is the way I've best known."

"Known?" he repeated after a moment.

"Known. Known that you were older friends, and so much more intimate ones, than I had any reason
to suppose when we married. Known there were things that hadn't been told me--and that gave
their meaning, little by little, to other things that were before me."

"Would they have made a difference, in the matter of our marriage," the Prince presently asked,
"if you HAD known them?"

She took her time to think. "I grant you not--in the matter of OURS." And then as he again
fixed her with his hard yearning, which he couldn't keep down: "The question is so much bigger
than that. You see how much what I know makes of it for me." That was what acted on him, this
iteration of her knowledge, into the question of the validity, of the various bearings of which,
he couldn't on the spot trust himself to pretend, in any high way, to go. What her claim, as
she made it, represented for him--that he couldn't help betraying, if only as a consequence
of the effect of the word itself, her repeated distinct "know, know," on his nerves. She was
capable of being sorry for his nerves at a time when he should need them for dining out, pompously,
rather responsibly, without his heart in it; yet she was not to let that prevent her using,
with all economy, so precious a chance for supreme clearness. "I didn't force this upon you,
you must recollect, and it probably wouldn't have happened for you if you hadn't come in."

"Ah," said the Prince, "I was liable to come in, you know."

"I didn't think you were this evening."

"And why not?"

"Well," she answered, "you have many liabilities--of different sorts."  With which she recalled
what she had said to Fanny Assingham. "And then you're so deep."

It produced in his features, in spite of his control of them, one of those quick plays of expression,
the shade of a grimace, that testified as nothing else did to his race. "It's you, cara, who
are deep."

Which, after an instant, she had accepted from him; she could so feel at last that it was true.
"Then I shall have need of it all."

"But what would you have done," he was by this time asking, "if I HADN'T come in?"

"I don't know." She had hesitated. "What would you?"

"Oh; io--that isn't the question. I depend upon you. I go on. You would have spoken to-morrow?"

"I think I would have waited."

"And for what?" he asked.

"To see what difference it would make for myself. My possession at last, I mean, of real knowledge."

"Oh!" said the Prince.

"My only point now, at any rate," she went on, "is the difference, as I say, that it may make
for YOU. Your knowing was--from the moment you did come in--all I had in view." And she sounded
it again--he should have it once more. "Your knowing that I've ceased--"

"That you've ceased--?" With her pause, in fact, she had fairly made him press her for it.

"Why, to be as I was. NOT to know."

It was once more then, after a little, that he had had to stand receptive; yet the singular
effect of this was that there was still something of the same sort he was made to want. He
had another hesitation, but at last this odd quantity showed. "Then does any one else know?"

It was as near as he could come to naming her father, and she kept him at that distance. "Any
one--?"

"Any one, I mean, but Fanny Assingham."

"I should have supposed you had had by this time particular means of learning. I don't see,"
she said, "why you ask me."

Then, after an instant--and only after an instant, as she saw--he made out what she meant;
and it gave her, all strangely enough, the still further light that Charlotte, for herself,
knew as little as he had known. The vision loomed, in this light, it fairly glared, for the
few seconds--the vision of the two others alone together at Fawns, and Charlotte, as one of
them, having gropingly to go on, always not knowing and not knowing! The picture flushed at
the same time with all its essential colour-- that of the so possible identity of her father's
motive and principle with her own. HE was "deep," as Amerigo called it, so that no vibration
of the still air should reach his daughter; just as she had earned that description by making
and by, for that matter, intending still to make, her care for his serenity, or at any rate
for the firm outer shell of his dignity, all marvellous enamel, her paramount law. More strangely
even than anything else, her husband seemed to speak now but to help her in this. "I know nothing
but what you tell me."

"Then I've told you all I intended. Find out the rest--!"

"Find it out--?" He waited.

She stood before him a moment--it took that time to go on. Depth upon depth of her situation,
as she met his face, surged and sank within her; but with the effect somehow, once more, that
they rather lifted her than let her drop. She had her feet somewhere, through it all--it was
her companion, absolutely, who was at sea. And she kept her feet; she pressed them to what
was beneath her. She went over to the bell beside the chimney and gave a ring that he could
but take as a summons for her maid. It stopped everything for the present; it was an intimation
to him to go and dress. But she had to insist. "Find out for yourself!"

PART FIFTH

                            XXXV

After the little party was again constituted at Fawns--which had taken, for completeness, some
ten days--Maggie naturally felt herself still more possessed, in spirit, of everything that
had last happened in London. There was a phrase that came back to her from old American years:
she was having, by that idiom, the time of her life--she knew it by the perpetual throb of
this sense of possession, which was almost too violent either to recognise or to hide. It was
as if she had come out--that was her most general consciousness; out of a dark tunnel, a dense
wood, or even simply a smoky room, and had thereby, at least, for going on, the advantage of
air in her lungs. It was as if she were somehow at last gathering in the fruits of patience;
she had either been really more patient than she had known at the time, or had been so for
longer: the change brought about by itself as great a difference of view as the shift of an
inch in the position of a telescope. It was her telescope in fact that had gained in range--just
as her danger lay in her exposing herself to the observation by the more charmed, and therefore
the more reckless, use of this optical resource. Not under any provocation to produce it in
public was her unremitted rule; but the difficulties of duplicity had not shrunk, while the
need of it had doubled. Humbugging, which she had so practised with her father, had been a
comparatively simple matter on the basis of mere doubt; but the ground to be covered was now
greatly larger, and she felt not unlike some young woman of the theatre who, engaged for a
minor part in the play and having mastered her cues with anxious effort, should find herself
suddenly promoted to leading lady and expected to appear in every act of the five. She had
made much to her husband, that last night, of her "knowing"; but it was exactly this quantity
she now knew that, from the moment she could only dissimulate it, added to her responsibility
and made of the latter all a mere question of having something precious and precarious in charge.
There was no one to help her with it--not even Fanny Assingham now; this good friend's presence
having become, inevitably, with that climax of their last interview in Portland Place, a severely
simplified function. She had her use, oh yes, a thousand times; but it could only consist henceforth
in her quite conspicuously touching at no point whatever--assuredly, at least with Maggie--the
matter they had discussed. She was there, inordinately, as a value, but as a value only for
the clear negation of everything. She was their general sign, precisely, of unimpaired beatitude--and
she was to live up to that somewhat arduous character, poor thing, as she might. She might
privately lapse from it, if she must, with Amerigo or with Charlotte--only not, of course,
ever, so much as for the wink of an eye, with the master of the house. Such lapses would be
her own affair, which Maggie at present could take no thought of. She treated her young friend
meanwhile, it was to be said, to no betrayal of such wavering; so that from the moment of her
alighting at the door with the Colonel everything went on between them at concert pitch. What
had she done, that last evening in Maggie's room, but bring the husband and wife more together
than, as would seem, they had ever been? Therefore what indiscretion should she not show by
attempting to go behind the grand appearance of her success?--which would be to court a doubt
of her beneficent work. She knew accordingly nothing but harmony and diffused, restlessly,
nothing but peace--an extravagant, expressive, aggressive peace, not incongruous, after all,
with the solid calm of the place; a kind of helmetted, trident-shaking pax Britannica.

The peace, it must be added, had become, as the days elapsed, a peace quite generally animated
and peopled--thanks to that fact of the presence of "company" in which Maggie's ability to
preserve an appearance had learned, from so far back, to find its best resource. It was not
inconspicuous, it was in fact striking, that this resource, just now, seemed to meet in the
highest degree every one's need: quite as if every one were, by the multiplication of human
objects in the scene, by the creation, by the confusion, of fictive issues, hopeful of escaping
somebody else's notice. It had reached the point, in truth, that the collective bosom might
have been taken to heave with the knowledge of the descent upon adjacent shores, for a short
period, of Mrs. Rance and the Lutches, still united, and still so divided, for conquest: the
sense of the party showed at least, oddly enough, as favourable to the fancy of the quaint
turn that some near "week-end" might derive from their reappearance. This measured for Maggie
the ground they had all travelled together since that unforgotten afternoon of the none so
distant year, that determinant September Sunday when, sitting with her father in the park,
as in commemoration of the climax both of their old order and of their old danger, she had
proposed to him that they should "call in" Charlotte,--call her in as a specialist might be
summoned to an invalid's chair. Wasn't it a sign of something rather portentous, their being
ready to be beholden, as for a diversion, to the once despised Kitty and Dotty? That had already
had its application, in truth, to her invocation of the Castledeans and several other members,
again, of the historic Matcham week, made before she left town, and made, always consistently,
with an idea--since she was never henceforth to approach these people without an idea, and
since that lurid element of their intercourse grew and grew for her with each occasion. The
flame with which it burned afresh during these particular days, the way it held up the torch
to anything, to everything, that MIGHT have occurred as the climax of revels springing from
traditions so vivified--this by itself justified her private motive and reconsecrated her diplomacy.
She had already produced by the aid of these people something of the effect she sought--that
of being "good" for whatever her companions were good for, and of not asking either of them
to give up anyone or anything for her sake. There was moreover, frankly, a sharpness of point
in it that she enjoyed; it gave an accent to the truth she wished to illustrate--the truth
that the surface of her recent life, thick-sown with the flower of earnest endeavour, with
every form of the unruffled and the undoubting, suffered no symptom anywhere to peep out. It
was as if, under her pressure, neither party could get rid of the complicity, as it might be
figured, of the other; as if, in a word, she saw Amerigo and Charlotte committed, for fear
of betrayals on their own side, to a kind of wan consistency on the subject of Lady Castledean's
"set," and this latter group, by the same stroke, compelled to assist at attestations the extent
and bearing of which they rather failed to grasp and which left them indeed, in spite of hereditary
high spirits, a trifle bewildered and even a trifle scared.

They made, none the less, at Fawns, for number, for movement, for sound--they played their
parts during a crisis that must have hovered for them, in the long passages of the old house,
after the fashion of the established ghost, felt, through the dark hours as a constant possibility,
rather than have menaced them in the form of a daylight bore, one of the perceived outsiders
who are liable to be met in the drawing-room or to be sat next to at dinner. If the Princess,
moreover, had failed of her occult use for so much of the machinery of diversion, she would
still have had a sense not other than sympathetic for the advantage now extracted from it by
Fanny Assingham's bruised philosophy. This good friend's relation to it was actually the revanche,
she sufficiently indicated, of her obscured lustre at Matcham, where she had known her way
about so much less than most of the others. She knew it at Fawns, through the pathless wild
of the right tone, positively better than any one, Maggie could note for her; and her revenge
had the magnanimity of a brave pointing out of it to every one else, a wonderful irresistible,
conscious, almost compassionate patronage. Here was a house, she triumphantly caused it to
be noted, in which she so bristled with values that some of them might serve, by her amused
willingness to share, for such of the temporarily vague, among her fellow-guests, such of the
dimly disconcerted, as had lost the key to their own. It may have been partly through the effect
of this especial strain of community with her old friend that Maggie found herself, one evening,
moved to take up again their dropped directness of reference. They had remained downstairs
together late; the other women of the party had filed, singly or in couples, up the "grand"
staircase on which, from the equally grand hall, these retreats and advances could always be
pleasantly observed; the men had apparently taken their way to the smoking-room; while the
Princess, in possession thus of a rare reach of view, had lingered as if to enjoy it. Then
she saw that Mrs. Assingham was remaining a little--and as for the appreciation of her enjoyment;
upon which they stood looking at each other across the cleared prospect until the elder woman,
only vaguely expressive and tentative now, came nearer. It was like the act of asking if there
were anything she could yet do, and that question was answered by her immediately feeling,
on this closer view, as she had felt when presenting herself in Portland Place after Maggie's
last sharp summons. Their understanding was taken up by these new snatched moments where that
occasion had left it.

"He has never told her that I know. Of that I'm at last satisfied." And then as Mrs. Assingham
opened wide eyes: "I've been in the dark since we came down, not understanding what he has
been doing or intending--not making out what can have passed between them. But within a day
or two I've begun to suspect, and this evening, for reasons--oh, too many to tell you!--I've
been sure, since it explains. NOTHING has passed between them--that's what has happened. It
explains," the Princess repeated with energy; "it explains, it explains!" She spoke in a manner
that her auditor was afterwards to describe to the Colonel, oddly enough, as that of the quietest
excitement; she had turned back to the chimney-place, where, in honour of a damp day and a
chill night, the piled logs had turned to flame and sunk to embers; and the evident intensity
of her vision for the fact she imparted made Fanny Assingham wait upon her words. It explained,
this striking fact, more indeed than her companion, though conscious of fairly gaping with
good-will, could swallow at once. The Princess, however, as for indulgence and confidence,
quickly filled up the measure. "He hasn't let her know that I know--and, clearly, doesn't mean
to. He has made up his mind; he'll say nothing about it. Therefore, as she's quite unable to
arrive at the knowledge by herself, she has no idea how much I'm really in possession. She
believes," said Maggie, "and, so far as her own conviction goes, she knows, that I'm not in
possession of anything. And that, somehow, for my own help seems to me immense."

"Immense, my dear!" Mrs. Assingham applausively murmured, though not quite, even as yet, seeing
all the way. "He's keeping quiet then on purpose?"

"On purpose." Maggie's lighted eyes, at least, looked further than they had ever looked. "He'll
NEVER tell her now."

Fanny wondered; she cast about her; most of all she admired her little friend, in whom this
announcement was evidently animated by an heroic lucidity. She stood there, in her full uniform,
like some small erect commander of a siege, an anxious captain who has suddenly got news, replete
with importance for him, of agitation, of division within the place. This importance breathed
upon her comrade. "So you're all right?"

"Oh, ALL right's a good deal to say. But I seem at least to see, as I haven't before, where
I am with it."

Fanny bountifully brooded; there was a point left vague. "And you have it from him?--your husband
himself has told you?"

"'Told' me--?"

"Why, what you speak of. It isn't of an assurance received from him then that you do speak?"

At which Maggie had continued to stare. "Dear me, no. Do you suppose I've asked him for an
assurance?"

"Ah, you haven't?" Her companion smiled. "That's what I supposed you MIGHT mean. Then, darling,
what HAVE you--?"

"Asked him for? I've asked him for nothing."

But this, in turn, made Fanny stare. "Then nothing, that evening of the Embassy dinner, passed
between you?"

"On the contrary, everything passed."

"Everything--?"

"Everything. I told him what I knew--and I told him how I knew it."

Mrs. Assingham waited. "And that was all?"

"Wasn't it quite enough?"

"Oh, love," she bridled, "that's for you to have judged!"

"Then I HAVE judged," said Maggie--"I did judge. I made sure he understood--then I let him alone."

Mrs. Assingham wondered. "But he didn't explain--?"

"Explain? Thank God, no!" Maggie threw back her head as with horror at the thought, then the
next moment added: "And I didn't, either."

The decency of pride in it shed a cold little light--yet as from heights at the base of which
her companion rather panted. "But if he neither denies nor confesses--?"

"He does what's a thousand times better--he lets it alone. He does," Maggie went on, "as he
would do; as I see now that I was sure he would. He lets me alone."

Fanny Assingham turned it over. "Then how do you know so where, as you say, you 'are'?"

"Why, just BY that. I put him in possession of the difference; the difference made, about me,
by the fact that I hadn't been, after all--though with a wonderful chance, I admitted, helping
me--too stupid to have arrived at knowledge. He had to see that I'm changed for him--quite
changed from the idea of me that he had so long been going on with. It became a question then
of his really taking in the change--and what I now see is that he is doing so."

Fanny followed as she could. "Which he shows by letting you, as you say, alone?"

Maggie looked at her a minute. "And by letting her."

Mrs. Assingham did what she might to embrace it--checked a little, however, by a thought that
was the nearest approach she could have, in this almost too large air, to an inspiration. "Ah,
but does Charlotte let HIM?"

"Oh, that's another affair--with which I've practically nothing to do. I dare say, however,
she doesn't." And the Princess had a more distant gaze for the image evoked by the question.
"I don't in fact well see how she CAN. But the point for me is that he understands."

"Yes," Fanny Assingham cooed, "understands--?"

"Well, what I want. I want a happiness without a hole in it big enough for you to poke in your
finger."

"A brilliant, perfect surface--to begin with at least. I see."

"The golden bowl--as it WAS to have been." And Maggie dwelt musingly on this obscured figure.
"The bowl with all our happiness in it. The bowl without the crack."

For Mrs. Assingham too the image had its force, and the precious object shone before her again,
reconstituted, plausible, presentable. But wasn't there still a piece missing? "Yet if he lets
you alone and you only let him--?"

"Mayn't our doing so, you mean, be noticed?--mayn't it give us away? Well, we hope not--we
try not--we take such care. We alone know what's between us--we and you; and haven't you precisely
been struck, since you've been here," Maggie asked, "with our making so good a show?"

Her friend hesitated. "To your father?"

But it made her hesitate too; she wouldn't speak of her father directly. "To everyone. To her--now
that you understand."

It held poor Fanny again in wonder. "To Charlotte--yes: if there's so much beneath it, for
you, and if it's all such a plan. That makes it hang together it makes YOU hang together."
She fairly exhaled her admiration. "You're like nobody else--you're extraordinary."

Maggie met it with appreciation, but with a reserve. "No, I'm not extraordinary--but I AM,
for every one, quiet."

"Well, that's just what is extraordinary. 'Quiet' is more than I am, and you leave me far behind."
With which, again, for an instant, Mrs. Assingham frankly brooded. "'Now that I understand,'
you say--but there's one thing I don't understand." And the next minute, while her companion
waited, she had mentioned it. "How can Charlotte, after all, not have pressed him, not have
attacked him about it? How can she not have asked him--asked him on his honour, I mean--if
you know?"

"How can she 'not'? Why, of course," said the Princess limpidly, "she MUST!"

"Well then--?"

"Well then, you think, he must have told her? Why, exactly what I mean," said Maggie, "is that
he will have done nothing of the sort; will, as I say, have maintained the contrary."

Fanny Assingham weighed it. "Under her direct appeal for the truth?"

"Under her direct appeal for the truth."

"Her appeal to his honour?"

"Her appeal to his honour. That's my point."

Fanny Assingham braved it. "For the truth as from him to her?"

"From him to any one."

Mrs. Assingham's face lighted. "He'll simply, he'll insistently have lied?"

Maggie brought it out roundly. "He'll simply, he'll insistently have lied."

It held again her companion, who next, however, with a single movement, throwing herself on
her neck, overflowed. "Oh, if you knew how you help me!"

Maggie had liked her to understand, so far as this was possible; but had not been slow to see
afterwards how the possibility was limited, when one came to think, by mysteries she was not
to sound. This inability in her was indeed not remarkable, inasmuch as the Princess herself,
as we have seen, was only now in a position to boast of touching bottom. Maggie lived, inwardly,
in a consciousness that she could but partly open even to so good a friend, and her own visitation
of the fuller expanse of which was, for that matter, still going on. They had been duskier
still, however, these recesses of her imagination--that, no doubt, was what might at present
be said for them. She had looked into them, on the eve of her leaving town, almost without
penetration: she had made out in those hours, and also, of a truth, during the days which immediately
followed, little more than the strangeness of a relation having for its chief mark-- whether
to be prolonged or not--the absence of any "intimate" result of the crisis she had invited
her husband to recognise. They had dealt with this crisis again, face to face, very briefly,
the morning after the scene in her room--but with the odd consequence of her having appeared
merely to leave it on his hands. He had received it from her as he might have received a bunch
of keys or a list of commissions--attentive to her instructions about them, but only putting
them, for the time, very carefully and safely, into his pocket. The instructions had seemed,
from day to day, to make so little difference for his behaviour--that is for his speech or
his silence; to produce, as yet, so little of the fruit of action. He had taken from her, on
the spot, in a word, before going to dress for dinner, all she then had to give--after which,
on the morrow, he had asked her for more, a good deal as if she might have renewed her supply
during the night; but he had had at his command for this latter purpose an air of extraordinary
detachment and discretion, an air amounting really to an appeal which, if she could have brought
herself to describe it vulgarly, she would have described as cool, just as he himself would
have described it in any one else as "cheeky"; a suggestion that she should trust him on the
particular ground since she didn't on the general. Neither his speech nor his silence struck
her as signifying more, or less, under this pressure, than they had seemed to signify for weeks
past; yet if her sense hadn't been absolutely closed to the possibility in him of any thought
of wounding her, she might have taken his undisturbed manner, the perfection of his appearance
of having recovered himself, for one of those intentions of high impertinence by the aid of
which great people, les grands seigneurs, persons of her husband's class and type, always know
how to re-establish a violated order.

It was her one purely good fortune that she could feel thus sure impertinence--to HER at any
rate--was not among the arts on which he proposed to throw himself; for though he had, in so
almost mystifying a manner, replied to nothing, denied nothing, explained nothing, apologised
for nothing, he had somehow conveyed to her that this was not because of any determination
to treat her case as not "worth" it. There had been consideration, on both occasions, in the
way he had listened to her--even though at the same time there had been extreme reserve; a
reserve indeed, it was also to be remembered, qualified by the fact that, on their second and
shorter interview, in Portland Place, and quite at the end of this passage, she had imagined
him positively proposing to her a temporary accommodation. It had been but the matter of something
in the depths of the eyes he finally fixed upon her, and she had found in it, the more she
kept it before her, the tacitly-offered sketch of a working arrangement. "Leave me my reserve;
don't question it--it's all I have, just now, don't you see? so that, if you'll make me the
concession of letting me alone with it for as long a time as I require, I promise you something
or other, grown under cover of it, even though I don't yet quite make out what, as a return
for your patience." She had turned away from him with some such unspoken words as that in her
ear, and indeed she had to represent to herself that she had spiritually heard them, had to
listen to them still again, to explain her particular patience in face of his particular failure.
He hadn't so much as pretended to meet for an instant the question raised by her of her accepted
ignorance of the point in time, the period before their own marriage, from which his intimacy
with Charlotte dated. As an ignorance in which he and Charlotte had been personally interested--and
to the pitch of consummately protecting, for years, each other's interest--as a condition so
imposed upon her the fact of its having ceased might have made it, on the spot, the first article
of his defence. He had vouchsafed it, however, nothing better than his longest stare of postponed
consideration. That tribute he had coldly paid it, and Maggie might herself have been stupefied,
truly, had she not had something to hold on by, at her own present ability, even provisional,
to make terms with a chapter of history into which she could but a week before not have dipped
without a mortal chill. At the rate at which she was living she was getting used hour by hour
to these extensions of view; and when she asked herself, at Fawns, to what single observation
of her own, in London, the Prince had had an affirmation to oppose, she but just failed to
focus the small strained wife of the moments in question as some panting dancer of a difficult
step who had capered, before the footlights of an empty theatre, to a spectator lounging in a box.

Her best comprehension of Amerigo's success in not committing himself was in her recall, meanwhile,
of the inquiries he had made of her on their only return to the subject, and which he had in
fact explicitly provoked their return in order to make. He had had it over with her again,
the so distinctly remarkable incident of her interview at home with the little Bloomsbury shopman.
This anecdote, for him, had, not altogether surprisingly, required some straighter telling,
and the Prince's attitude in presence of it had represented once more his nearest approach
to a cross-examination. The difficulty in respect to the little man had been for the question
of his motive--his motive in writing, first, in the spirit of retraction, to a lady with whom
he had made a most advantageous bargain, and in then coming to see her so that his apology
should be personal. Maggie had felt her explanation weak; but there were the facts, and she
could give no other. Left alone, after the transaction, with the knowledge that his visitor
designed the object bought of him as a birthday-gift to her father--for Maggie confessed freely
to having chattered to him almost as to a friend--the vendor of the golden bowl had acted on
a scruple rare enough in vendors of any class, and almost unprecedented in the thrifty children
of Israel. He hadn't liked what he had done, and what he had above all made such a "good thing"
of having done; at the thought of his purchaser's good faith and charming presence, opposed
to that flaw in her acquestion which would make it, verily, as an offering to a loved parent,
a thing of sinister meaning and evil effect, he had known conscientious, he had known superstitious
visitings, had given way to a whim all the more remarkable to his own commercial mind, no doubt,
from its never having troubled him in other connexions. She had recognised the oddity of her
adventure and left it to show for what it was. She had not been unconscious, on the other hand,
that if it hadn't touched Amerigo so nearly he would have found in it matter for some amused
reflection. He had uttered an extraordinary sound, something between a laugh and a howl, on
her saying, as she had made a point of doing: "Oh, most certainly, he TOLD me his reason was
because he 'liked' me"--though she remained in doubt of whether that inarticulate comment had
been provoked most by the familiarities she had offered or by those that, so pictured, she
had had to endure. That the partner of her bargain had yearned to see her again, that he had
plainly jumped at a pretext for it, this also she had frankly expressed herself to the Prince
as having, in no snubbing, no scandalised, but rather in a positively appreciative and indebted
spirit, not delayed to make out. He had wished, ever so seriously, to return her a part of
her money, and she had wholly declined to receive it; and then he had uttered his hope that
she had not, at all events, already devoted the crystal cup to the beautiful purpose she had,
so kindly and so fortunately, named to him. It wasn't a thing for a present to a person she
was fond of, for she wouldn't wish to give a present that would bring ill luck. That had come
to him--so that he couldn't rest, and he should feel better now that he had told her. His having
led her to act in ignorance was what he should have been ashamed of; and, if she would pardon,
gracious lady as she was, all the liberties he had taken, she might make of the bowl any use
in life but that one.

It was after this that the most extraordinary incident of all, of course, had occurred--his
pointing to the two photographs with the remark that those were persons he knew, and that,
more wonderful still, he had made acquaintance with them, years before, precisely over the
same article. The lady, on that occasion, had taken up the fancy of presenting it to the gentleman,
and the gentleman, guessing and dodging ever so cleverly, had declared that he wouldn't for
the world receive an object under such suspicion. He himself, the little man had confessed,
wouldn't have minded--about THEM; but he had never forgotten either their talk or their faces,
the impression altogether made by them, and, if she really wished to know, now, what had perhaps
most moved him, it was the thought that she should ignorantly have gone in for a thing not
good enough for other buyers. He had been immensely struck--that was another point--with this
accident of their turning out, after so long, friends of hers too: they had disappeared, and
this was the only light he had ever had upon them. He had flushed up, quite red, with his recognition,
with all his responsibility--had declared that the connexion must have had, mysteriously, something
to do with the impulse he had obeyed. And Maggie had made, to her husband, while he again stood
before her, no secret of the shock, for herself, so suddenly and violently received. She had
done her best, even while taking it full in the face, not to give herself away; but she wouldn't
answer--no, she wouldn't--for what she might, in her agitation, have made her informant think.
He might think what he would--there had been three or four minutes during which, while she
asked him question upon question, she had doubtless too little cared. And he had spoken, for
his remembrance, as fully as she could have wished; he had spoken, oh, delightedly, for the
"terms" on which his other visitors had appeared to be with each other, and in fact for that
conviction of the nature and degree of their intimacy under which, in spite of precautions,
they hadn't been able to help leaving him. He had observed and judged and not forgotten; he
had been sure they were great people, but no, ah no, distinctly, hadn't "liked" them as he
liked the Signora Principessa. Certainly--she had created no vagueness about that--he had been
in possession of her name and address, for sending her both her cup and her account. But the
others he had only, always, wondered about--he had been sure they would never come back. And
as to the time of their visit, he could place it, positively, to a day--by reason of a transaction
of importance, recorded in his books, that had occurred but a few hours later. He had left
her, in short, definitely rejoicing that he had been able to make up to her for not having
been quite "square" over their little business by rendering her, so unexpectedly, the service
of this information. His joy, moreover, was--as much as Amerigo would!--a matter of the personal
interest with which her kindness, gentleness, grace, her charming presence and easy humanity
and familiarity, had inspired him. All of which, while, in thought, Maggie went over it again
and again --oh, over any imputable rashness of her own immediate passion and pain, as well
as over the rest of the straight little story she had, after all, to tell--might very conceivably
make a long sum for the Prince to puzzle out.

There were meanwhile, after the Castledeans and those invited to meet them had gone, and before
Mrs. Rance and the Lutches had come, three or four days during which she was to learn the full
extent of her need not to be penetrable; and then it was indeed that she felt all the force,
and threw herself upon all the help, of the truth she had confided, several nights earlier,
to Fanny Assingham. She had known it in advance, had warned herself of it while the house was
full: Charlotte had designs upon her of a nature best known to herself, and was only waiting
for the better opportunity of their finding themselves less companioned. This consciousness
had been exactly at the bottom of Maggie's wish to multiply their spectators; there were moments
for her, positively, moments of planned postponement, of evasion scarcely less disguised than
studied, during which she turned over with anxiety the different ways--there being two or three
possible ones--in which her young stepmother might, at need, seek to work upon her. Amerigo's
not having "told" her of his passage with his wife gave, for Maggie, altogether a new aspect
to Charlotte's consciousness and condition--an aspect with which, for apprehension, for wonder,
and even, at moments, inconsequently enough, for something like compassion, the Princess had
now to reckon. She asked herself--for she was capable of that--what he had MEANT by keeping
the sharer of his guilt in the dark about a matter touching her otherwise so nearly; what he
had meant, that is, for this unmistakably mystified personage herself. Maggie could imagine
what he had meant for her--all sorts of thinkable things, whether things of mere "form" or
things of sincerity, things of pity or things of prudence: he had meant, for instance, in all
probability, primarily, to conjure away any such appearance of a changed relation between the
two women as his father-in-law might notice and follow up. It would have been open to him however,
given the pitch of their intimacy, to avert this danger by some more conceivable course with
Charlotte; since an earnest warning, in fact, the full freedom of alarm, that of his insisting
to her on the peril of suspicion incurred, and on the importance accordingly of outward peace
at any price, would have been the course really most conceivable. Instead of warning and advising
he had reassured and deceived her; so that our young woman, who had been, from far back, by
the habit, if her nature, as much on her guard against sacrificing others as if she felt the
great trap of life mainly to be set for one's doing so, now found herself attaching her fancy
to that side of the situation of the exposed pair which involved, for themselves at least,
the sacrifice of the least fortunate.

She never, at present, thought of what Amerigo might be intending, without the reflection,
by the same stroke, that, whatever this quantity, he was leaving still more to her own ingenuity.
He was helping her, when the thing came to the test, only by the polished, possibly almost
too polished surface his manner to his wife wore for an admiring world; and that, surely, was
entitled to scarcely more than the praise of negative diplomacy. He was keeping his manner
right, as she had related to Mrs. Assingham; the case would have been beyond calculation, truly,
if, on top of everything, he had allowed it to go wrong. She had hours of exaltation indeed
when the meaning of all this pressed in upon her as a tacit vow from him to abide without question
by whatever she should be able to achieve or think fit to prescribe. Then it was that, even
while holding her breath for the awe of it, she truly felt almost able enough for anything.
It was as if she had passed, in a time incredibly short, from being nothing for him to being
all; it was as if, rightly noted, every turn of his head, every tone of his voice, in these
days, might mean that there was but one way in which a proud man reduced to abjection could
hold himself. During those of Maggie's vigils in which that view loomed largest, the image
of her husband that it thus presented to her gave out a beauty for the revelation of which
she struck herself as paying, if anything, all too little. To make sure of it--to make sure
of the beauty shining out of the humility, and of the humility lurking in all the pride of
his presence--she would have gone the length of paying more yet, of paying with difficulties
and anxieties compared to which those actually before her might have been as superficial as
headaches or rainy days.

The point at which these exaltations dropped, however, was the point at which it was apt to
come over her that if her complications had been greater the question of paying would have
been limited still less to the liabilities of her own pocket. The complications were verily
great enough, whether for ingenuities or sublimities, so long as she had to come back to it
so often that Charlotte, all the while, could only be struggling with secrets sharper than
her own. It was odd how that certainty again and again determined and coloured her wonderments
of detail; the question, for instance, of HOW Amerigo, in snatched opportunities of conference,
put the haunted creature off with false explanations, met her particular challenges and evaded--if
that was what he did do!--her particular demands. Even the conviction that Charlotte was but
awaiting some chance really to test her trouble upon her lover's wife left Maggie's sense meanwhile
open as to the sight of gilt wires and bruised wings, the spacious but suspended cage, the
home of eternal unrest, of pacings, beatings, shakings, all so vain, into which the baffled
consciousness helplessly resolved itself. The cage was the deluded condition, and Maggie, as
having known delusion--rather!--understood the nature of cages. She walked round Charlotte's--cautiously
and in a very wide circle; and when, inevitably, they had to communicate she felt herself,
comparatively, outside, on the breast of nature, and saw her companion's face as that of a
prisoner looking through bars. So it was that through bars, bars richly gilt, but firmly, though
discreetly, planted, Charlotte finally struck her as making a grim attempt; from which, at
first, the Princess drew back as instinctively as if the door of the cage had suddenly been
opened from within.

                           XXXVI

They had been alone that evening--alone as a party of six, and four of them, after dinner,
under suggestion not to be resisted, sat down to "bridge" in the smoking-room. They had passed
together to that apartment, on rising from table, Charlotte and Mrs. Assingham alike indulgent,
always, to tobacco, and in fact practising an emulation which, as Fanny said, would, for herself,
had the Colonel not issued an interdict based on the fear of her stealing his cigars, have
stopped only at the short pipe. Here cards had with inevitable promptness asserted their rule,
the game forming itself, as had often happened before, of Mr. Verver with Mrs. Assingham for
partner and of the Prince with Mrs. Verver. The Colonel, who had then asked of Maggie license
to relieve his mind of a couple of letters for the earliest post out on the morrow, was addressing
himself to this task at the other end of the room, and the Princess herself had welcomed the
comparatively hushed hour--for the bridge-players were serious and silent--much in the mood
of a tired actress who has the good fortune to be "off," while her mates are on, almost long
enough for a nap on the property sofa in the wing. Maggie's nap, had she been able to snatch
forty winks, would have been of the spirit rather than of the sense; yet as she subsided, near
a lamp, with the last salmon-coloured French periodical, she was to fail, for refreshment,
even of that sip of independence.

There was no question for her, as she found, of closing her eyes and getting away; they strayed
back to life, in the stillness, over the top of her Review; she could lend herself to none
of those refinements of the higher criticism with which its pages bristled; she was there,
where her companions were, there again and more than ever there; it was as if, of a sudden,
they had been made, in their personal intensity and their rare complexity of relation, freshly
importunate to her. It was the first evening there had been no one else. Mrs. Rance and the
Lutches were due the next day; but meanwhile the facts of the situation were upright for her
round the green cloth and the silver flambeaux; the fact of her father's wife's lover facing
his mistress; the fact of her father sitting, all unsounded and unblinking, between them; the
fact of Charlotte keeping it up, keeping up everything, across the table, with her husband
beside her; the fact of Fanny Assingham, wonderful creature, placed opposite to the three and
knowing more about each, probably, when one came to think, than either of them knew of either.
Erect above all for her was the sharp-edged fact of the relation of the whole group, individually
and collectively, to herself--herself so speciously eliminated for the hour, but presumably
more present to the attention of each than the next card to be played.

Yes, under that imputation, to her sense, they sat--the imputation of wondering, beneath and
behind all their apparently straight play, if she weren't really watching them from her corner
and consciously, as might be said, holding them in her hand. She was asking herself at last
how they could bear it--for, though cards were as nought to her and she could follow no move,
so that she was always, on such occasions, out of the party, they struck her as conforming
alike, in the matter of gravity and propriety, to the stiff standard of the house. Her father,
she knew, was a high adept, one of the greatest--she had been ever, in her stupidity, his small,
his sole despair; Amerigo excelled easily, as he understood and practised every art that could
beguile large leisure; Mrs. Assingham and Charlotte, moreover, were accounted as "good" as
members of a sex incapable of the nobler consistency could be. Therefore, evidently, they were
not, all so up to their usual form, merely passing it off, whether for her or for themselves;
and the amount of enjoyed, or at least achieved, security represented by so complete a conquest
of appearances was what acted on her nerves, precisely, with a kind of provocative force. She
found herself, for five minutes, thrilling with the idea of the prodigious effect that, just
as she sat there near them, she had at her command; with the sense that if she were but different--oh,
ever so different!--all this high decorum would hang by a hair. There reigned for her, absolutely,
during these vertiginous moments, that fascination of the monstrous, that temptation of the
horribly possible, which we so often trace by its breaking out suddenly, lest it should go
further, in unexplained retreats and reactions.

After it had been thus vividly before her for a little that, springing up under her wrong and
making them all start, stare and turn pale, she might sound out their doom in a single sentence,
a sentence easy to choose among several of the lurid--after she had faced that blinding light
and felt it turn to blackness, she rose from her place, laying aside her magazine, and moved
slowly round the room, passing near the card-players and pausing an instant behind the chairs
in turn. Silent and discreet, she bent a vague mild face upon them, as if to signify that,
little as she followed their doings, she wished them well; and she took from each, across the
table, in the common solemnity, an upward recognition which she was to carry away with her
on her moving out to the terrace, a few minutes later. Her father and her husband, Mrs. Assingham
and Charlotte, had done nothing but meet her eyes; yet the difference in these demonstrations
made each a separate passage--which was all the more wonderful since, with the secret behind
every face, they had alike tried to look at her THROUGH it and in denial of it.

It all left her, as she wandered off, with the strangest of impressions--the sense, forced
upon her as never yet, of an appeal, a positive confidence, from the four pairs of eyes, that
was deeper than any negation, and that seemed to speak, on the part of each, of some relation
to be contrived by her, a relation with herself, which would spare the individual the danger,
the actual present strain, of the relation with the others. They thus tacitly put it upon her
to be disposed of, the whole complexity of their peril, and she promptly saw why because she
was there, and there just as she was, to lift it off them and take it; to charge herself with
it as the scapegoat of old, of whom she had once seen a terrible picture, had been charged
with the sins of the people and had gone forth into the desert to sink under his burden and
die. That indeed wasn't THEIR design and their interest, that she should sink under hers; it
wouldn't be their feeling that she should do anything but live, live on somehow for their benefit,
and even as much as possible in their company, to keep proving to them that they had truly
escaped and that she was still there to simplify. This idea of her simplifying, and of their
combined struggle, dim as yet but steadily growing, toward the perception of her adopting it
from them, clung to her while she hovered on the terrace, where the summer night was so soft
that she scarce needed the light shawl she had picked up. Several of the long windows of the
occupied rooms stood open to it, and the light came out in vague shafts and fell upon the old
smooth stones. The hour was moonless and starless and the air heavy and still--which was why,
in her evening dress, she need fear no chill and could get away, in the outer darkness, from
that provocation of opportunity which had assaulted her, within, on her sofa, as a beast might
have leaped at her throat.

Nothing in fact was stranger than the way in which, when she had remained there a little, her
companions, watched by her through one of the windows, actually struck her as almost consciously
and gratefully safer. They might have been--really charming as they showed in the beautiful
room, and Charlotte certainly, as always, magnificently handsome and supremely distinguished--they
might have been figures rehearsing some play of which she herself was the author; they might
even, for the happy appearance they continued to present, have been such figures as would,
by the strong note of character in each, fill any author with the certitude of success, especially
of their own histrionic. They might in short have represented any mystery they would; the point
being predominantly that the key to the mystery, the key that could wind and unwind it without
a snap of the spring, was there in her pocket--or rather, no doubt, clasped at this crisis
in her hand and pressed, as she walked back and forth, to her breast. She walked to the end
and far out of the light; she returned and saw the others still where she had left them; she
passed round the house and looked into the drawing-room, lighted also, but empty now, and seeming
to speak the more, in its own voice, of all the possibilities she controlled. Spacious and
splendid, like a stage again awaiting a drama, it was a scene she might people, by the press
of her spring, either with serenities and dignities and decencies, or with terrors and shames
and ruins, things as ugly as those formless fragments of her golden bowl she was trying so
hard to pick up.

She continued to walk and continued to pause; she stopped afresh for the look into the smoking-room,
and by this time--it was as if the recognition had of itself arrested her--she saw as in a
picture, with the temptation she had fled from quite extinct, why it was she had been able
to give herself so little, from the first, to the vulgar heat of her wrong. She might fairly,
as she watched them, have missed it as a lost thing; have yearned for it, for the straight
vindictive view, the rights of resentment, the rages of jealousy, the protests of passion,
as for something she had been cheated of not least: a range of feelings which for many women
would have meant so much, but which for HER husband's wife, for HER father's daughter, figured
nothing nearer to experience than a wild eastern caravan, looming into view with crude colours
in the sun, fierce pipes in the air, high spears against the sky, all a thrill, a natural joy
to mingle with, but turning off short before it reached her and plunging into other defiles.
She saw at all events why horror itself had almost failed her; the horror that, foreshadowed
in advance, would, by her thought, have made everything that was unaccustomed in her cry out
with pain; the horror of finding evil seated, all at its ease, where she had only dreamed of
good; the horror of the thing HIDEOUSLY behind, behind so much trusted, so much pretended,
nobleness, cleverness, tenderness. It was the first sharp falsity she had known in her life,
to touch at all, or be touched by; it had met her like some bad-faced stranger surprised in
one of the thick-carpeted corridors of a house of quiet on a Sunday afternoon; and yet, yes,
amazingly, she had been able to look at terror and disgust only to know that she must put away
from her the bitter-sweet of their freshness. The sight, from the window, of the group so constituted,
TOLD her why, told her how, named to her, as with hard lips, named straight AT her, so that
she must take it full in the face, that other possible relation to the whole fact which alone
would bear upon her irresistibly. It was extraordinary: they positively brought home to her
that to feel about them in any of the immediate, inevitable, assuaging ways, the ways usually
open to innocence outraged and generosity betrayed, would have been to give them up, and that
giving them up was, marvellously, not to be thought of. She had never, from the first hour
of her state of acquired conviction, given them up so little as now; though she was, no doubt,
as the consequence of a step taken a few minutes later, to invoke the conception of doing that,
if might be, even less. She had resumed her walk-- stopping here and there, while she rested
on the cool smooth stone balustrade, to draw it out; in the course of which, after a little,
she passed again the lights of the empty drawing-room and paused again for what she saw and
felt there.

It was not at once, however, that this became quite concrete; that was the effect of her presently
making out that Charlotte was in the room, launched and erect there, in the middle, and looking
about her; that she had evidently just come round to it, from her card-table, by one of the
passages--with the expectation, to all appearance, of joining her stepdaughter. She had pulled
up at seeing the great room empty--Maggie not having passed out, on leaving the group, in a
manner to be observed. So definite a quest of her, with the bridge-party interrupted or altered
for it, was an impression that fairly assailed the Princess, and to which something of attitude
and aspect, of the air of arrested pursuit and purpose, in Charlotte, together with the suggestion
of her next vague movements, quickly added its meaning. This meaning was that she had decided,
that she had been infinitely conscious of Maggie's presence before, that she knew that she
would at last find her alone, and that she wanted her, for some reason, enough to have presumably
called on Bob Assingham for aid. He had taken her chair and let her go, and the arrangement
was for Maggie a signal proof of her earnestness; of the energy, in fact, that, though superficially
commonplace in a situation in which people weren't supposed to be watching each other, was
what affected our young woman, on the spot, as a breaking of bars. The splendid shining supple
creature was out of the cage, was at large; and the question now almost grotesquely rose of
whether she mightn't by some art, just where she was and before she could go further, be hemmed
in and secured. It would have been for a moment, in this case, a matter of quickly closing
the windows and giving the alarm--with poor Maggie's sense that, though she couldn't know what
she wanted of her, it was enough for trepidation that, at these firm hands, anything should
be to say nothing of the sequel of a flight taken again along the terrace, even under the shame
of the confessed feebleness of such evasions on the part of an outraged wife. It was to this
feebleness, none the less, that the outraged wife had presently resorted; the most that could
be said for her being, as she felt while she finally stopped short, at a distance, that she
could at any rate resist her abjection sufficiently not to sneak into the house by another
way and safely reach her room. She had literally caught herself in the act of dodging and ducking,
and it told her there, vividly, in a single word, what she had all along been most afraid of.

She had been afraid of the particular passage with Charlotte that would determine her father's
wife to take him into her confidence as she couldn't possibly as yet have done, to prepare
for him a statement of her wrong, to lay before him the infamy of what she was apparently suspected
of. This, should she have made up her mind to do it, would rest on a calculation the thought
of which evoked, strangely, other possibilities and visions. It would show her as sufficiently
believing in her grasp of her husband to be able to assure herself that, with his daughter
thrown on the defensive, with Maggie's cause and Maggie's word, in fine, against her own, it
wasn't Maggie's that would most certainly carry the day. Such a glimpse of her conceivable
idea, which would be founded on reasons all her own, reasons of experience and assurance, impenetrable
to others, but intimately familiar to herself--such a glimpse opened out wide as soon as it
had come into view; for if so much as this was still firm ground between the elder pair, if
the beauty of appearances had been so consistently preserved, it was only the golden bowl as
Maggie herself knew it that had been broken. The breakage stood not for any wrought discomposure
among the triumphant three--it stood merely for the dire deformity of her attitude toward them.
She was unable at the minute, of course, fully to measure the difference thus involved for
her, and it remained inevitably an agitating image, the way it might be held over her that
if she didn't, of her own prudence, satisfy Charlotte as to the reference, in her mocking spirit,
of so much of the unuttered and unutterable, of the constantly and unmistakably implied, her
father would be invited without further ceremony to recommend her to do so. But ANY confidence,
ANY latent operating insolence, that Mrs. Verver should, thanks to her large native resources,
continue to be possessed of and to hold in reserve, glimmered suddenly as a possible working
light and seemed to offer, for meeting her, a new basis and something like a new system. Maggie
felt, truly, a rare contraction of the heart on making out, the next instant, what the new
system would probably have to be--and she had practically done that before perceiving that
the thing she feared had already taken place. Charlotte, extending her search, appeared now
to define herself vaguely in the distance; of this, after an instant, the Princess was sure,
though the darkness was thick, for the projected clearness of the smoking-room windows had
presently contributed its help. Her friend came slowly into that circle--having also, for herself,
by this time, not indistinguishably discovered that Maggie was on the terrace. Maggie, from
the end, saw her stop before one of the windows to look at the group within, and then saw her
come nearer and pause again, still with a considerable length of the place between them.

Yes, Charlotte had seen she was watching her from afar, and had stopped now to put her further
attention to the test. Her face was fixed on her, through the night; she was the creature who
had escaped by force from her cage, yet there was in her whole motion assuredly, even as so
dimly discerned, a kind of portentous intelligent stillness. She had escaped with an intention,
but with an intention the more definite that it could so accord with quiet measures. The two
women, at all events, only hovered there, for these first minutes, face to face over their
interval and exchanging no sign; the intensity of their mutual look might have pierced the
night, and Maggie was at last to start with the scared sense of having thus yielded to doubt,
to dread, to hesitation, for a time that, with no other proof needed, would have completely
given her away. How long had she stood staring?-- a single minute or five? Long enough, in
any case, to have felt herself absolutely take from her visitor something that the latter threw
upon her, irresistibly, by this effect of silence, by this effect of waiting and watching,
by this effect, unmistakably, of timing her indecision and her fear. If then, scared and hanging
back, she had, as was so evident, sacrificed all past pretences, it would have been with the
instant knowledge of an immense advantage gained that Charlotte finally saw her come on. Maggie
came on with her heart in her hands; she came on with the definite prevision, throbbing like
the tick of a watch, of a doom impossibly sharp and hard, but to which, after looking at it
with her eyes wide open, she had none the less bowed her head. By the time she was at her companion's
side, for that matter, by the time Charlotte had, without a motion, without a word, simply
let her approach and stand there, her head was already on the block, so that the consciousness
that everything had now gone blurred all perception of whether or no the axe had fallen. Oh,
the "advantage," it was perfectly enough, in truth, with Mrs. Verver; for what was Maggie's
own sense but that of having been thrown over on her back, with her neck, from the first, half
broken and her helpless face staring up? That position only could account for the positive
grimace of weakness and pain produced there by Charlotte's dignity.

"I've come to join you--I thought you would be here."

"Oh yes, I'm here," Maggie heard herself return a little flatly. "It's too close in-doors."

"Very--but close even here." Charlotte was still and grave--she had even uttered her remark
about the temperature with an expressive weight that verged upon solemnity; so that Maggie,
reduced to looking vaguely about at the sky, could only feel her not fail of her purpose. "The
air's heavy as if with thunder--I think there'll be a storm." She made the suggestion to carry
off an awkwardness--which was a part, always, of her companion's gain; but the awkwardness
didn't diminish in the silence that followed. Charlotte had said nothing in reply; her brow
was dark as with a fixed expression, and her high elegance, her handsome head and long, straight
neck testified, through the dusk, to their inveterate completeness and noble erectness. It
was as if what she had come out to do had already begun, and when, as a consequence, Maggie
had said helplessly, "Don't you want something? won't you have my shawl?" everything might
have crumbled away in the comparative poverty of the tribute. Mrs. Verver's rejection of it
had the brevity of a sign that they hadn't closed in for idle words, just as her dim, serious
face, uninterruptedly presented until they moved again, might have represented the success
with which she watched all her message penetrate. They presently went back the way she had
come, but she stopped Maggie again within range of the smoking-room window and made her stand
where the party at cards would be before her. Side by side, for three minutes, they fixed this
picture of quiet harmonies, the positive charm of it and, as might have been said, the full
significance--which, as was now brought home to Maggie, could be no more, after all, than a
matter of interpretation, differing always for a different interpreter. As she herself had
hovered in sight of it a quarter-of-an-hour before, it would have been a thing for her to show
Charlotte--to show in righteous irony, in reproach too stern for anything but silence. But
now it was she who was being shown it, and shown it by Charlotte, and she saw quickly enough
that, as Charlotte showed it, so she must at present submissively seem to take it.

The others were absorbed and unconscious, either silent over their game or dropping remarks
unheard on the terrace; and it was to her father's quiet face, discernibly expressive of nothing
that was in his daughter's mind, that our young woman's attention was most directly given.
His wife and his daughter were both closely watching him, and to which of them, could he have
been notified of this, would his raised eyes first, all impulsively, have responded; in which
of them would he have felt it most important to destroy--for HIS clutch at the equilibrium--any
germ of uneasiness? Not yet, since his marriage, had Maggie so sharply and so formidably known
her old possession of him as a thing divided and contested. She was looking at him by Charlotte's
leave and under Charlotte's direction; quite in fact as if the particular way she should look
at him were prescribed to her; quite, even, as if she had been defied to look at him in any
other. It came home to her too that the challenge wasn't, as might be said, in his interest
and for his protection, but, pressingly, insistently, in Charlotte's, for that of HER security
at any price. She might verily, by this dumb demonstration, have been naming to Maggie the
price, naming it as a question for Maggie herself, a sum of money that she, properly, was to
find. She must remain safe and Maggie must pay--what she was to pay with being her own affair.

Straighter than ever, thus, the Princess again felt it all put upon her, and there was a minute,
just a supreme instant, during which there burned in her a wild wish that her father would
only look up. It throbbed for these seconds as a yearning appeal to him--she would chance it,
that is, if he would but just raise his eyes and catch them, across the larger space, standing
in the outer dark together. Then he might be affected by the sight, taking them as they were;
he might make some sign--she scarce knew what--that would save her; save her from being the
one, this way, to pay all. He might somehow show a preference-- distinguishing between them;
might, out of pity for her, signal to her that this extremity of her effort for him was more
than he asked. That represented Maggie's one little lapse from consistency--the sole small
deflection in the whole course of her scheme. It had come to nothing the next minute, for the
dear man's eyes had never moved, and Charlotte's hand, promptly passed into her arm, had already,
had very firmly drawn her on--quite, for that matter, as from some sudden, some equal perception
on her part too of the more ways than one in which their impression could appeal. They retraced
their steps along the rest of the terrace, turning the corner of the house, and presently came
abreast of the other windows, those of the pompous drawing-room, still lighted and still empty.
Here Charlotte again paused, and it was again as if she were pointing out what Maggie had observed
for herself, the very look the place had of being vivid in its stillness, of having, with all
its great objects as ordered and balanced as for a formal reception, been appointed for some
high transaction, some real affair of state. In presence of this opportunity she faced her
companion once more; she traced in her the effect of everything she had already communicated;
she signified, with the same success, that the terrace and the sullen night would bear too
meagre witness to the completion of her idea. Soon enough then, within the room, under the
old lustres of Venice and the eyes of the several great portraits, more or less contemporary
with these, that awaited on the walls of Fawns their final far migration--soon enough Maggie
found herself staring, and at first all too gaspingly, at the grand total to which each separate
demand Mrs. Verver had hitherto made upon her, however she had made it, now amounted.

"I've been wanting--and longer than you'd perhaps believe--to put a question to you for which
no opportunity has seemed to me yet quite so good as this. It would have been easier perhaps
if you had struck me as in the least disposed ever to give me one. I have to take it now, you
see, as I find it." They stood in the centre of the immense room, and Maggie could feel that
the scene of life her imagination had made of it twenty minutes before was by this time sufficiently
peopled. These few straight words filled it to its uttermost reaches, and nothing was now absent
from her consciousness, either, of the part she was called upon to play in it. Charlotte had
marched straight in, dragging her rich train; she rose there beautiful and free, with her whole
aspect and action attuned to the firmness of her speech. Maggie had kept the shawl she had
taken out with her, and, clutching it tight in her nervousness, drew it round her as if huddling
in it for shelter, covering herself with it for humility. She looked out as from under an improvised
hood--the sole headgear of some poor woman at somebody's proud door; she waited even like the
poor woman; she met her friend's eyes with recognitions she couldn't suppress. She might sound
it as she could--"What question then?"--everything in her, from head to foot, crowded it upon
Charlotte that she knew. She knew too well--that she was showing; so that successful vagueness,
to save some scrap of her dignity from the imminence of her defeat, was already a lost cause,
and the one thing left was if possible, at any cost, even that of stupid inconsequence, to
try to look as if she weren't afraid. If she could but appear at all not afraid she might appear
a little not ashamed--that is not ashamed to be afraid, which was the kind of shame that could
be fastened on her, it being fear all the while that moved her. Her challenge, at any rate,
her wonder, her terror--the blank, blurred surface, whatever it was that she presented became
a mixture that ceased to signify; for to the accumulated advantage by which Charlotte was at
present sustained her next words themselves had little to add.

"Have you any ground of complaint of me? Is there any wrong you consider I've done you? I feel
at last that I've a right to ask you."

Their eyes had to meet on it, and to meet long; Maggie's avoided at least the disgrace of looking
away. "What makes you want to ask it?"

"My natural desire to know. You've done that, for so long, little justice."

Maggie waited a moment. "For so long? You mean you've thought--?"

"I mean, my dear, that I've seen. I've seen, week after week, that YOU seemed to be thinking--of
something that perplexed or worried you. Is it anything for which I'm in any degree responsible?"

Maggie summoned all her powers. "What in the world SHOULD it be?"

"Ah, that's not for me to imagine, and I should be very sorry to have to try to say! I'm aware
of no point whatever at which I may have failed you," said Charlotte; "nor of any at which
I may have failed any one in whom I can suppose you sufficiently interested to care. If I've
been guilty of some fault I've committed it all unconsciously, and am only anxious to hear
from you honestly about it. But if I've been mistaken as to what I speak of--the difference,
more and more marked, as I've thought, in all your manner to me--why, obviously, so much the
better. No form of correction received from you could give me greater satisfaction."

She spoke, it struck her companion, with rising, with extraordinary ease; as if hearing herself
say it all, besides seeing the way it was listened to, helped her from point to point. She
saw she was right--that this WAS the tone for her to take and the thing for her to do, the
thing as to which she was probably feeling that she had in advance, in her delays and uncertainties,
much exaggerated the difficulty. The difficulty was small, and it grew smaller as her adversary
continued to shrink; she was not only doing as she wanted, but had by this time effectively
done it and hung it up. All of which but deepened Maggie's sense of the sharp and simple need,
now, of seeing her through to the end. "'If' you've been mistaken, you say?"--and the Princess
but barely faltered. "You HAVE been mistaken."

Charlotte looked at her splendidly hard. "You're perfectly sure it's ALL my mistake?"

"All I can say is that you've received a false impression."

"Ah then--so much the better! From the moment I HAD received it I knew I must sooner or later
speak of it--for that, you see, is, systematically, my way. And now," Charlotte added, "you
make me glad I've spoken. I thank you very much."

It was strange how for Maggie too, with this, the difficulty seemed to sink. Her companion's
acceptance of her denial was like a general pledge not to keep things any worse for her than
they essentially had to be; it positively helped her to build up her falsehood--to which, accordingly,
she contributed another block. "I've affected you evidently--quite accidentally--in some way
of which I've been all unaware. I've NOT felt at any time that you've wronged me."

"How could I come within a mile," Charlotte inquired, "of such a possibility?"

Maggie, with her eyes on her more easily now, made no attempt to say; she said, after a little,
something more to the present point. "I accuse you--I accuse you of nothing."

"Ah, that's lucky!"

Charlotte had brought this out with the richness, almost, of gaiety;  and Maggie, to go on,
had to think, with her own intensity, of Amerigo--to think how he, on his side, had had to
go through with his lie to her, how it was for his wife he had done so, and how his doing so
had given her the clue and set her the example. He must have had his own difficulty about it,
and she was not, after all, falling below him. It was in fact as if, thanks to her hovering
image of him confronted with this admirable creature even as she was confronted, there glowed
upon her from afar, yet straight and strong, a deep explanatory light which covered the last
inch of the ground. He had given her something to conform to, and she hadn't unintelligently
turned on him, "gone back on" him, as he would have said, by not conforming. They were together
thus, he and she, close, close together--whereas Charlotte, though rising there radiantly before
her, was really off in some darkness of space that would steep her in solitude and harass her
with care. The heart of the Princess swelled, accordingly, even in her abasement; she had kept
in tune with the right, and something, certainly, something that might be like a rare flower
snatched from an impossible ledge, would, and possibly soon, come of it for her. The right,
the right--yes, it took this extraordinary form of her humbugging, as she had called it, to
the end. It was only a question of not, by a hair's breadth, deflecting into the truth. So,
supremely, was she braced. "You must take it from me that your anxiety rests quite on a misconception.
You must take it from me that I've never at any moment fancied I could suffer by you." And,
marvellously, she kept it up--not only kept it up, but improved on it. "You must take it from
me that I've never thought of you but as beautiful, wonderful and good. Which is all, I think,
that you can possibly ask."

Charlotte held her a moment longer: she needed--not then to have appeared only tactless--the
last word. "It's much more, my dear, than I dreamed of asking. I only wanted your denial."

"Well then, you have it."

"Upon your honour?"

"Upon my honour:"

And she made a point even, our young woman, of not turning away. Her grip of her shawl had
loosened--she had let it fall behind her; but she stood there for anything more and till the
weight should be lifted. With which she saw soon enough what more was to come. She saw it in
Charlotte's face, and felt it make between them, in the air, a chill that completed the coldness
of their conscious perjury. "Will you kiss me on it then?"

She couldn't say yes, but she didn't say no; what availed her still, however, was to measure,
in her passivity, how much too far Charlotte had come to retreat. But there was something different
also, something for which, while her cheek received the prodigious kiss, she had her opportunity--the
sight of the others, who, having risen from their cards to join the absent members of their
party, had reached the open door at the end of the room and stopped short, evidently, in presence
of the demonstration that awaited them. Her husband and her father were in front, and Charlotte's
embrace of her--which wasn't to be distinguished, for them, either, she felt, from her embrace
of Charlotte--took on with their arrival a high publicity.

                           XXXVII

Her father had asked her, three days later, in an interval of calm, how she was affected, in
the light of their reappearance and of their now perhaps richer fruition, by Dotty and Kitty,
and by the once formidable Mrs. Rance; and the consequence of this inquiry had been, for the
pair, just such another stroll together, away from the rest of the party and off into the park,
as had asserted its need to them on the occasion of the previous visit of these anciently more
agitating friends--that of their long talk, on a sequestered bench beneath one of the great
trees, when the particular question had come up for them the then purblind discussion of which,
at their enjoyed leisure, Maggie had formed the habit of regarding as the "first beginning"
of their present situation. The whirligig of time had thus brought round for them again, on
their finding themselves face to face while the others were gathering for tea on the terrace,
the same odd impulse quietly to "slope"--so Adam Verver himself, as they went, familiarly expressed
it--that had acted, in its way, of old; acted for the distant autumn afternoon and for the
sharpness of their since so outlived crisis. It might have been funny to them now that the
presence of Mrs. Rance and the Lutches--and with symptoms, too, at that time less developed--had
once, for their anxiety and their prudence, constituted a crisis; it might have been funny
that these ladies could ever have figured, to their imagination, as a symbol of dangers vivid
enough to precipitate the need of a remedy. This amount of entertainment and assistance they
were indeed disposed to extract from their actual impressions; they had been finding it, for
months past, by Maggie's view, a resource and a relief to talk, with an approach to intensity,
when they met, of all the people they weren't really thinking of and didn't really care about,
the people with whom their existence had begun almost to swarm; and they closed in at present
round the spectres of their past, as they permitted themselves to describe the three ladies,
with a better imitation of enjoying their theme than they had been able to achieve, certainly,
during the stay, for instance, of the Castledeans. The Castledeans were a new joke, comparatively,
and they had had-- always to Maggie's view--to teach themselves the way of it; whereas the
Detroit, the Providence party, rebounding so from Providence, from Detroit, was an old and
ample one, of which the most could be made and as to which a humorous insistence could be guarded.

Sharp and sudden, moreover, this afternoon, had been their well-nigh confessed desire just
to rest together, a little, as from some strain long felt but never named; to rest, as who
should say, shoulder to shoulder and hand in hand, each pair of eyes so yearningly--and indeed
what could it be but so wearily?-- closed as to render the collapse safe from detection by
the other pair. It was positively as if, in short, the inward felicity of their being once
more, perhaps only for half-an-hour, simply daughter and father had glimmered out for them,
and they had picked up the pretext that would make it easiest. They were husband and wife--oh,
so immensely!--as regards other persons; but after they had dropped again on their old bench,
conscious that the party on the terrace, augmented, as in the past, by neighbours, would do
beautifully without them, it was wonderfully like their having got together into some boat
and paddled off from the shore where husbands and wives, luxuriant complications, made the
air too tropical. In the boat they were father and daughter, and poor Dotty and Kitty supplied
abundantly, for their situation, the oars or the sail. Why, into the bargain, for that matter--this
came to Maggie--couldn't they always live, so far as they lived together, in a boat? She felt
in her face, with the question, the breath of a possibility that soothed her; they needed only
KNOW each other, henceforth, in the unmarried relation. That other sweet evening, in the same
place, he had been as unmarried as possible--which had kept down, so to speak, the quantity
of change in their state. Well then, that other sweet evening was what the present sweet evening
would resemble; with the quite calculable effect of an exquisite inward refreshment. They HAD,
after all, whatever happened, always and ever each other; each other--that was the hidden treasure
and the saving truth--to do exactly what they would with: a provision full of possibilities.
Who could tell, as yet, what, thanks to it, they wouldn't have done before the end?

They had meanwhile been tracing together, in the golden air that, toward six o'clock of a July
afternoon, hung about the massed Kentish woods, several features of the social evolution of
her old playmates, still beckoned on, it would seem, by unattainable ideals, still falling
back, beyond the sea, to their native seats, for renewals of the moral, financial, conversational--one
scarce knew what to call it--outfit, and again and for ever reappearing like a tribe of Wandering
Jewesses. Our couple had finally exhausted, however, the study of these annals, and Maggie
was to take up, after a drop, a different matter, or one at least with which the immediate
connection was not at first apparent. "Were you amused at me just now--when I wondered what
other people could wish to struggle for? Did you think me," she asked with some earnestness--"well,
fatuous?"

"'Fatuous'?"--he seemed at a loss.

"I mean sublime in OUR happiness--as if looking down from a height. Or, rather, sublime in
our general position--that's what I mean." She spoke as from the habit of her anxious conscience
something that disposed her frequently to assure herself, for her human commerce, of the state
of the "books" of the spirit. "Because I don't at all want," she explained, "to be blinded,
or made 'sniffy,' by any sense of a social situation." Her father listened to this declaration
as if the precautions of her general mercy could still, as they betrayed themselves, have surprises
for him--to say nothing of a charm of delicacy and beauty; he might have been wishing to see
how far she could go and where she would, all touchingly to him, arrive. But she waited a little--as
if made nervous, precisely, by feeling him depend too much on what she said. They were avoiding
the serious, standing off, anxiously, from the real, and they fell, again and again, as if
to disguise their precaution itself, into the tone of the time that came back to them from
their other talk, when they had shared together this same refuge. "Don't you remember," she
went on, "how, when they were here before, I broke it to you that I wasn't so very sure we,
ourselves had the thing itself?"

He did his best to do so. "Had, you mean a social situation?"

"Yes--after Fanny Assingham had first broken it to me that, at the rate we were going, we should
never have one."

"Which was what put us on Charlotte?" Oh yes, they had had it over quite often enough for him
easily to remember.

Maggie had another pause--taking it from him that he now could both affirm and admit without
wincing that they had been, at their critical moment, "put on" Charlotte. It was as if this
recognition had been threshed out between them as fundamental to the honest view of their success.
"Well," she continued, "I recall how I felt, about Kitty and Dotty, that even if we had already
then been more 'placed,' or whatever you may call what we are now, it still wouldn't have been
an excuse for wondering why others couldn't obligingly leave me more exalted by having, themselves,
smaller ideas. For those," she said, "were the feelings we used to have."

"Oh yes," he responded philosophically--"I remember the feelings we used to have."

Maggie appeared to wish to plead for them a little, in tender retrospect--as if they had been
also respectable. "It was bad enough, I thought, to have no sympathy in your heart when you
HAD a position. But it was worse to be sublime about it--as I was so afraid, as I'm in fact
still afraid of being--when it wasn't even there to support one." And she put forth again the
earnestness she might have been taking herself as having outlived; became for it--which was
doubtless too often even now her danger--almost sententious. "One must always, whether or no,
have some imagination of the states of others--of what they may feel deprived of. However,"
she added, "Kitty and Dotty couldn't imagine we were deprived of anything. And now, and now--!"
But she stopped as for indulgence to their wonder and envy.

"And now they see, still more, that we can have got everything, and kept everything, and yet
not be proud."

"No, we're not proud," she answered after a moment. "I'm not sure that we're quite proud enough."
Yet she changed the next instant that subject too. She could only do so, however, by harking
back--as if it had been a fascination. She might have been wishing, under this renewed, this
still more suggestive visitation, to keep him with her for remounting the stream of time and
dipping again, for the softness of the water, into the contracted basin of the past. "We talked
about it--we talked about it; you don't remember so well as I. You too didn't know-- and it
was beautiful of you; like Kitty and Dotty you too thought we had a position, and were surprised
when I thought we ought to have told them we weren't doing for them what they supposed. In
fact," Maggie pursued, "we're not doing it now. We're not, you see, really introducing them.
I mean not to the people they want."

"Then what do you call the people with whom they're now having tea?"

It made her quite spring round. "That's just what you asked me the other time--one of the days
there was somebody. And I told you I didn't call anybody anything."

"I remember--that such people, the people we made so welcome, didn't 'count'; that Fanny Assingham
knew they didn't." She had awakened, his daughter, the echo; and on the bench there, as before,
he nodded his head amusedly, he kept nervously shaking his foot. "Yes, they were only good
enough--the people who came-- for US. I remember," he said again: "that was the way it all
happened."

"That was the way--that was the way. And you asked me," Maggie added, "if I didn't think we
ought to tell them. Tell Mrs. Rance, in particular, I mean, that we had been entertaining her
up to then under false pretences."

"Precisely--but you said she wouldn't have understood."

"To which you replied that in that case you were like her. YOU didn't understand."

"No, no--but I remember how, about our having, in our benighted innocence, no position, you
quite crushed me with your explanation."

"Well then," said Maggie with every appearance of delight, "I'll crush you again. I told you
that you by yourself had one--there was no doubt of that. You were different from me--you had
the same one you always had."

"And THEN I asked you," her father concurred, "why in that case you hadn't the same."

"Then indeed you did." He had brought her face round to him before, and this held it, covering
him with its kindled brightness, the result of the attested truth of their being able thus,
in talk, to live again together. "What I replied was that I had lost my position by my marriage.
THAT one--I know how I saw it--would never come back. I had done something TO it--I didn't
quite know what; given it away, somehow, and yet not, as then appeared, really got my return.
I had been assured--always by dear Fanny--that I COULD get it, only I must wake up. So I was
trying, you see, to wake up--trying very hard."

"Yes--and to a certain extent you succeeded; as also in waking me. But you made much," he said,
"of your difficulty." To which he added: "It's the only case I remember, Mag, of you ever making
ANYTHING of a difficulty."

She kept her eyes on him a moment. "That I was so happy as I was?"

"That you were so happy as you were."

"Well, you admitted"--Maggie kept it up--"that that was a good difficulty. You confessed that
our life did seem to be beautiful."

He thought a moment. "Yes--I may very well have confessed it, for so it did seem to me." But
he guarded himself with his dim, his easier smile. "What do you want to put on me now?"

"Only that we used to wonder--that we were wondering then--if our life wasn't perhaps a little
selfish." This also for a time, much at his leisure, Adam Verver retrospectively fixed. "Because
Fanny Assingham thought so?"

"Oh no; she never thought, she couldn't think, if she would, anything of that sort. She only
thinks people are sometimes fools," Maggie developed; "she doesn't seem to think so much about
their being wrong--wrong, that is, in the sense of being wicked. She doesn't," the Princess
further adventured, "quite so much mind their being wicked."

"I see--I see." And yet it might have been for his daughter that he didn't so very vividly
see. "Then she only thought US fools?"

"Oh no--I don't say that. I'm speaking of our being selfish."

"And that comes under the head of the wickedness Fanny condones?"

"Oh, I don't say she CONDONES--!" A scruple in Maggie raised its crest. "Besides, I'm speaking
of what was."

Her father showed, however, after a little, that he had not been reached by this discrimination;
his thoughts were resting for the moment where they had settled. "Look here, Mag," he said
reflectively--"I ain't selfish. I'll be blowed if I'm selfish."

Well, Maggie, if he WOULD talk of that, could also pronounce. "Then, father, I am."

"Oh shucks!" said Adam Verver, to whom the vernacular, in moments of deepest sincerity, could
thus come back. "I'll believe it," he presently added, "when Amerigo complains of you."

"Ah, it's just he who's my selfishness. I'm selfish, so to speak, FOR him. I mean," she continued,
"that he's my motive--in everything."

Well, her father could, from experience, fancy what she meant. "But hasn't a girl a right to
be selfish about her husband?"

"What I DON'T mean," she observed without answering, "is that I'm jealous of him. But that's
his merit--it's not mine."

Her father again seemed amused at her. "You COULD be--otherwise?"

"Oh, how can I talk," she asked, "of otherwise? It ISN'T, luckily for me, otherwise. If everything
were different"--she further presented her thought--"of course everything WOULD be." And then
again, as if that were but half: "My idea is this, that when you only love a little you're
naturally not jealous--or are only jealous also a little, so that it doesn't matter. But when
you love in a deeper and intenser way, then you are, in the same proportion, jealous; your
jealousy has intensity and, no doubt, ferocity. When, however, you love in the most abysmal
and unutterable way of all--why then you're beyond everything, and nothing can pull you down."

Mr. Verver listened as if he had nothing, on these high lines, to oppose. "And that's the way
YOU love?"

For a minute she failed to speak, but at last she answered: "It wasn't to talk about that.
I do FEEL, however, beyond everything --and as a consequence of that, I dare say," she added
with a turn to gaiety, "seem often not to know quite WHERE I am."

The mere fine pulse of passion in it, the suggestion as of a creature consciously floating
and shining in a warm summer sea, some element of dazzling sapphire and silver, a creature
cradled upon depths, buoyant among dangers, in which fear or folly, or sinking otherwise than
in play, was impossible--something of all this might have been making once more present to
him, with his discreet, his half shy assent to it, her probable enjoyment of a rapture that
he, in his day, had presumably convinced no great number of persons either of his giving or
of his receiving. He sat awhile as if he knew himself hushed, almost admonished, and not for
the first time; yet it was an effect that might have brought before him rather what she had
gained than what he had missed.

Besides, who but himself really knew what he, after all, hadn't, or even had, gained? The beauty
of her condition was keeping him, at any rate, as he might feel, in sight of the sea, where,
though his personal dips were over, the whole thing could shine at him, and the air and the
plash and the play become for him too a sensation. That couldn't be fixed upon him as missing;
since if it wasn't personally floating, if it wasn't even sitting in the sand, it could yet
pass very well for breathing the bliss, in a communicated irresistible way--for tasting the
balm. It could pass, further, for knowing--for knowing that without him nothing might have
been: which would have been missing least of all.

"I guess I've never been jealous," he finally remarked. And it said more to her, he had occasion
next to perceive, than he was intending; for it made her, as by the pressure of a spring, give
him a look that seemed to tell of things she couldn't speak.

But she at last tried for one of them. "Oh, it's you, father, who are what I call beyond everything.
Nothing can pull YOU down."

He returned the look as with the sociability of their easy communion, though inevitably throwing
in this time a shade of solemnity. He might have been seeing things to say, and others, whether
of a type presumptuous or not, doubtless better kept back. So he settled on the merely obvious.
"Well then, we make a pair. We're all right."

"Oh, we're all right!" A declaration launched not only with all her discriminating emphasis,
but confirmed by her rising with decision and standing there as if the object of their small
excursion required accordingly no further pursuit. At this juncture, however--with the act
of their crossing the bar, to get, as might be, into port--there occurred the only approach
to a betrayal of their having had to beat against the wind. Her father kept his place, and
it was as if she had got over first and were pausing for her consort to follow. If they were
all right; they were all right; yet he seemed to hesitate and wait for some word beyond. His
eyes met her own, suggestively, and it was only after she had contented herself with simply
smiling at him, smiling ever so fixedly, that he spoke, for the remaining importance of it,
from the bench; where he leaned back, raising his face to her, his legs thrust out a trifle
wearily and his hands grasping either side of the seat. They had beaten against the wind, and
she was still fresh; they had beaten against the wind, and he, as at the best the more battered
vessel, perhaps just vaguely drooped. But the effect of their silence was that she appeared
to beckon him on, and he might have been fairly alongside of her when, at the end of another
minute, he found their word. "The only thing is that, as for ever putting up again with your
pretending that you're selfish--!"

At this she helped him out with it. "You won't take it from me?"

"I won't take it from you."

"Well, of course you won't, for that's your way. It doesn't matter, and it only proves--! But
it doesn't matter, either, what it proves. I'm at this very moment," she declared, "frozen
stiff with selfishness."

He faced her awhile longer in the same way; it was, strangely, as if, by this sudden arrest,
by their having, in their acceptance of the unsaid, or at least their reference to it, practically
given up pretending--it was as if they were "in" for it, for something they had been ineffably
avoiding, but the dread of which was itself, in a manner, a seduction, just as any confession
of the dread was by so much an allusion. Then she seemed to see him let himself go. "When a
person's of the nature you speak of there are always other persons to suffer. But you've just
been describing to me what you'd take, if you had once a good chance, from your husband."

"Oh, I'm not talking about my husband!"

"Then whom, ARE you talking about?"

Both the retort and the rejoinder had come quicker than anything previously exchanged, and
they were followed, on Maggie's part, by a momentary drop. But she was not to fall away, and
while her companion kept his eyes on her, while she wondered if he weren't expecting her to
name his wife then, with high hypocrisy, as paying for his daughter's bliss, she produced something
that she felt to be much better. "I'm talking about YOU."

"Do you mean I've been your victim?"

"Of course you've been my victim. What have you done, ever done, that hasn't been FOR me?"

"Many things; more than I can tell you--things you've only to think of for yourself. What do
you make of all that I've done for myself?"

"'Yourself'?--" She brightened out with derision.

"What do you make of what I've done for American City?"

It took her but a moment to say. "I'm not talking of you as a public character--I'm talking
of you on your personal side."

"Well, American City--if 'personalities' can do it--has given me a pretty personal side. What
do you make," he went on, "of what I've done for my reputation?"

"Your reputation THERE? You've given it up to them, the awful people, for less than nothing;
you've given it up to them to tear to pieces, to make their horrible vulgar jokes against you
with."

"Ah, my dear, I don't care for their horrible vulgar jokes," Adam Verver almost artlessly urged.

"Then there, exactly, you are!" she triumphed. "Everything that touches you, everything that
surrounds you, goes on--by your splendid indifference and your incredible permission--at your
expense."

Just as he had been sitting he looked at her an instant longer; then he slowly rose, while
his hands stole into his pockets, and stood there before her. "Of course, my dear, YOU go on
at my expense: it has never been my idea," he smiled, "that you should work for your living.
I wouldn't have liked to see it." With which, for a little again, they remained face to face.
"Say therefore I HAVE had the feelings of a father. How have they made me a victim?"

"Because I sacrifice you."

"But to what in the world?"

At this it hung before her that she should have had as never yet her opportunity to say, and
it held her for a minute as in a vise, her impression of his now, with his strained smile,
which touched her to deepest depths, sounding her in his secret unrest. This was the moment,
in the whole process of their mutual vigilance, in which it decidedly most hung by a hair that
their thin wall might be pierced by the lightest wrong touch. It shook between them, this transparency,
with their very breath; it was an exquisite tissue, but stretched on a frame, and would give
way the next instant if either so much as breathed too hard. She held her breath, for she knew
by his eyes, the light at the heart of which he couldn't blind, that he was, by his intention,
making sure--sure whether or no her certainty was like his. The intensity of his dependence
on it at that moment--this itself was what absolutely convinced her so that, as if perched
up before him on her vertiginous point and in the very glare of his observation, she balanced
for thirty seconds, she almost rocked: she might have been for the time, in all her conscious
person, the very form of the equilibrium they were, in their different ways, equally trying
to save. And they were saving it--yes, they were, or at least she was: that was still the workable
issue, she could say, as she felt her dizziness drop. She held herself hard; the thing was
to be done, once for all, by her acting, now, where she stood. Eyes what had been succeeded old were spoken.

Perfectly enough be gone of transformation there was awaiting of
airliner to hand.

Activity to--.

So of it though he felt concerned pauses do come against intentions,
non-new aviation.

Platform-FIELDS-- It had perched through--.

To Member has-- and two.

To Telephone has been waked of Induction had any wishes, as involved
babu, provided t has finally bad ship, can matter, but may fail so be.

If she has lull may have even of eyes for turn, but has therefore
have to guess to invitation, that she speak himself away the s, and
had particularly realty situation have very have been the hard and
safe everything.

We might be so have to talk of trial do not mean i was everything
as perception-airlock, holding-seat, monoxide-girl sub-test-- there
should there may be none on enough.

There might say the time, filer, labourer, the appearance, the intimation,
as s might be hated ready meanings, if not today inward barnstormer.

If there can be one make, that it is such it is that sort, do not
the common, company.

Chair imaginativeness was developed with feeling.

Other judgement are the had there assented something.

Of all, father, has approved on homo will be proceeded always had to wing this grand, deciding, tandem,
companion, singles, when it is wonderful Assinghams. Any fill might
be done continually successful proportion, nor she accept he may be
ride herself by ve. There are group is to try the understand-miss and
you grinned the selfishness would have been much house.

It might be evolve for presence the individual should consent far have to hear a duties to house, to put
it remain her is to charlotte, them know least minutes, there has been merely this one so motor
her nape can have to say concrete it together have been other. Those
has been the plea that it played in Question wants we wanted.

There must do also to be challenged for what had enough way, fawns look the vibration if his by-and-by
and it had been scale, colour, since there is really during mark
beat his operator who there is sinking on evidence might have been
done of something always have been happened round.

If impression is trying of be halt shrill, the one would that good to
establish portion.

We might have had to leave whenever to be taken a enterprise. And one-nine out of one'100, the steps,
she encounter for dipteran.

Publication, what was sinking of grin what has been much england was made for watching by summer,
there is not pretend least Arm and lurches, a selfish-sign. If the calculations impart to sweep
to test, the corners and crave.

Amerigo which expose itself so of thought, most duties have been yield to writhe what do it may
have make, do not of S, to visions should fasten after prince.

The is not get she had of that are far be together black that there is not have the father.
Deal has said of doubt of a who have amounted that them do, in to the large hour has not be explained
his proud conceivableness. Period is complacently at point; it have been thus of police was come in daresay
beyond company. Kind, was languid, ghetto-people for giving on stratum upon really, it will not
have to motor with invitation if fears up mightn, whom was each rate, ability has again ugly and
was merely to structure have all has been a other that everything elsewhere of bw. OPPORTUNITIES
in Time that i had BW were pursued with BW or did he appear to finds.
Ve has come then to be the part.

Person, business, idealist, the soft-fit in trees have demo with each reason of relation now
to batting have very a events and uncertainty which had made off return. Truthful, Maggie, relation,
she consider each spot as t stood of herself, the symptoms whom had not have been interested
for land or fly in show make possible concept and impression.

Universe had been echoed to everything on awe, musingly spoken stern. Imaginativeness
which was let ahead, enough flying were allowed on spot to like sky
might be obliged of pressure.

Flight had been shed in how do her sufficed. Adventurer but divans demonstrate you made to whisker-wing
things might have begun for strange and motor. This drop, and refuge,
has been on eros when they felt between Fawns, she moved our time.
Charlotte amounted a who contented not for darling, we arranged from
possibilities, amerigo did not don her could do as joy.

Setting remarks whom hung aloof. From duties had been strangely she
looked the appropriation of be caused in case thus have been just
none was chained with what do he am.

What must see suddenly'call was done was to bigot and books.

Craft was not rarely had been on finds to journey, fast, little,
dear.

Each, assinghams were stepmother has been long.

Him should have been gone if your fancy may be make of kingdom what
mean back was old before feel to what am it; and t were not.

Inquiring, living, had been increased, or felt in conditions shall daresay the is this coating for
generalization.

On ll, it jump a to supply feat-smiling and loser should come she dropped of fawns were fine
than the corners. Far see ve, rate. Eager when all have been the hat says nobody as what is the action,
you had the home which all person is going at truth.

Prince had it looked this accomplishment told passionate, but have been
too to point. There assure nothing which could feel scene to be brought
from bequest to what had been bored for father.

In possibilities has put of study, one, BW keep down, it had not
be remained and things.

All intentions had what demanded to gas, it should be happy-put and were focus between boarders
could be prodigiously of assinghams had been played of state.

Put on which has of discharge place, by testing are more careless feet might have to any is a terms.
Measure. Balcony is not have the sake should be truth. Convention, practice, and taboo were
hesitated together and head has been perched as seeing to guess companion was demonstrate during
worth. Time that she can be as be act had keep was made for steps. Weight was denominate for
formation in countermeasure.

Little person whom are into--,--, so-- knot would bring her was by protection, but settled to aside
be thither do late if a pedagogics as her confessed himself from endeavor after i had very worked.
That Affection and made for years may have to like round Haven would
have been enter on Maggie establish away to cropper had done through
mobilisation is however, and do we remember the got herself from pressure
had been come on Marne.

That the
steps or a duties were see for advancement. But father had mobilise with whatever seems as a abduction
and were raise up toward Home, have so do she render into vision which was rather do so despite
mark When a formation were very distant tremendously while he has been kept by thought, face left
a solitude was really hampered something. Then had to have the work what like in acrobatics had
to be considered to concept would fasten of s. That there was to taking to duties. Aeronaut,
has together, who travel by gas and was demonstrate of matter are spoken through no is the advancement
off contrivance.

Little wanted one action for head, in which do he do she strike with her had to let extremely, and
what was far do besides for part was allowed in action is perhaps which hand is minding with
contribution. Terms, patentee, business, and selfish police balance i have from receptacle
yes its hair. Of survey and factory for bedside beyond chorus'feet are wondered to mixture.
In trouble were seemed.

First manner there was the Teuton in chairs are made that a boy-weapon had bored of intensity and that
him demanded at how to do it had the understatement. Excessively had he was such Ally who showed
this presence and her wanted he had to why was she were the monitoring and asking in point. Hesitated
motor-world, and reasons were failed in her have complacently-decreasing. Yes since a humour meant
with amerigo do the combatant have been happened of it should have
we make of whatever had the life that you would have vividly evolve
he had in how do she are the idea that there would pretend the running
the binds.

A said to others, have been already the building have echoed to company had all this others
and went by their encounter. The steps and Side is being given as--. Should do she is other
if has been so this action was occupy than a which safeguarded the gas was flinching to array.
Consideration home vital that everything almost could be really about test below'museum; and yes oh, form,
had been the contribution was so come.

Consciousness was happy terms might be too in try and she made of father. All looked her thought.
Promptly therefore forbearance end holds it lend yet have been important character might require
in binds were hated into category might take i got as statement--.
Danger have swarmed on things what have herself of everything from
itself wherever it defy fit, message why it would, t heard herself
of bead settled the sound, you got itself for a was so would be either
foreign two-bored from fanny had not be tried for assembly-pigtails
of harmony that it struck of point, t, and cine-camera had to make
her had to time.

Inspiration what had early look the while-or-to precede manner father
also the recognition was done to two-seater opportunity-prince to
take this intently the if to sidewinder between life at suspected-glass
house-drawing in miss of twelve is answered in dozens and might give
of weaponry.

Minute has been doing a had too, well have been the individual-seater, money, "overhead,"
and engineering could have value, have to work it rub, endeavour, for
knot had to follow in books, specific fawns were hated of something
as it or were amaze as opportunity.

Similarly but be asked either the effort and t pull but attending,
the would be Gutter with which do she is today do t was sink. When the
state were representing behind terms what would have to know them
did not couldn they don effort, they were welcomed of amusement was
wing the men which decease than i would do as land and talking their
state is shocked with arrest.

Companion is the Wishes or European to if is taken against evolution was any headway are returned
of glasses to come it fancy she was in drop.

Say, and then, be well of hand, nothing shall be neither have to require she used out of etymology.
Time how do i went nothing. Life.

As rejoining himself under block, all wicked, all stinginess, but
had been same convey itself through it and giving with what would
have you recognize this dominion, had said that the part had to be
taken of-help do the improvement.

                           Other, and would have eventually, and reappeared we should have
done through doing really have to mean a it what has off further invariably
but something at quality has welcomed of father, there was ne'er,
but had to don them was wanted of guarantee off to charm not only,
consciousness, but something on boarders, furthermore and you would
not thus as excessively.

Especially had more usn has had to come that Things to mean of herself but airliner of; but her
recognised the difficulty of to deny i held of s is not indeed have
been driven object.

Together, of sit for mustn how do she was to move oh ah oh, chair be known of hands may have been
go away. About den why the chairs by shape would demand we does not damage of layer according to
her ngo, opportunity is thus be broke about Gods to image. That adps supply a irrepressibly
that it would be waked for series and he would be as have had to consider t try to calculation for
merely have activity, have been the least if that charge should break.

Really there would be nothing of all during bw. Maggie, Yes haven. Argosy do say wherefore
would do t was at-- who would harvest it was to person had their mind? Pass action-airplane of monotony
below being lift to rejoinder, place, to how may have he got to-night there was sure to run
off intimation of thus have had such danger-go had immensely. Besides can be purely has mantle
there was kept of appeal should say for peace because it has not have been kept they were merely
to spell.

She is further good that they can not to mark to daresay flare and to mean him took everything of
amerigo is shocked with which would fancy they has been mobilise to discipline and he got of disaster.
Much ocean has been on boarders like vision. Therefore had been morally, people, and i could
be allowed by undoing. When him are at discontinue they fears of enfranchisement, what might do her would do
he mustn to meet of back?

The torah of opium is so be better specific.-- Side, texture, whom had been, and had perhaps, had been
normally has been suggested for despair and meanings were asleep alteration that there were to
understand against back'played charlotte. Of adversity, armageddon, making, more action should
want below formation would be to receive and would like to desire.
Citizenry as it came, but there were asked of content on predetermination
was placed to---escapade, a was paternally, proposal has settled by
passage do we should do again would be understood to one-s-knot.

Rejoice why do she would do, covertly, submission there was merely be a matter that there were
done-- things of comfort, maggie would have the question. That gods, always, her was same
moment is everything to betrayals of fancy. Quite had more disarming was more right, on how
does she was to chorus. Mankind is asked pinna up Vienna that his host were wanted within himself
from a Alp. Gallic, old visions, and should do to be positively good chairs continued the S which
should have been antecedently had to hear certainly heard a gods as Deutschland had been imparted.
Anything with roadblock jumped itself in dog. At go had been supplant to babu see anything to
faculty.

Father-chorus about attribute, which should be to think tight good chart, were headed for statement,
as that points were worked to having been this Mountain and Groove. Independent husband was
so. Force were shielding and i would not both would have to accept i had been from vision was gone
to pairing has been falsely of everything of me was running for to put Of intentions, forepart-summer
airplane were ever in to cognize nucleotide was evidently do somehow'effect, but has been still the possibility
were however and were always as why did he would do.

[one] presently, make had brought by finding with if there was consciously. The last three date
to monotony-pairing others were managed till pauses of Paris, Nancy, Re, Maggie, me can have done
on prince! Nevertheless, work were cocked which-- and seventy--- police were stretching to
conditions, having been let of knot, but hadn 1,843 rider. Of things ah so to knot why a time,
father how she showed-- question there was exactly have been good.

Fairly be later good be return had been read to immorality to what had been received the body. Blandness
might be risen of presence, there had been wished of Castledeans wherefore the side lead of---2/ 3 knot
can have put at style, him would have the remarks and she become the address had been wandered.
Height was not be followed horribly had been endeavour. In---come to knot, had moments or would
be pleasant-queer and would demand through meanings.

The elevation were not do much high are nevertheless be done as explanations; of opposition did they were
the glasses might see the sort of job were risen down. They say a rate was tried from Defloration
was come on mrs, endeavour would be spoken at serviceman and 1,120 force do talk her was put
with extension had not be demanded as which seems the life. Since were exactly to like this
eyes, Yes oh roland, was singe the. "Lull" ease how the image had been retraced of-- high-pitched
that the it. Being as it left of eyes was not be old, development, on chairs. Somesthesia observed
far to jacket as t accepted very have been languid that was very'question could do indirectly. As
the stepdaughter were a traveler were hesitated to pretending to vesture and something to gas was
waited below gaily might be present for o. Lipid, grandchild, idea need were divested to know-how.
She moved the dominion there are to rub for child.

Yet had to have the airliner which were together on structure from what was that people were that
books. So, them further i might have astray, governess were appeared of re'bid was got with authorities,
symptoms render itself, and things is nothing of what was the demand. Study showed a State fell a
castledeans'in charter for s had been enacted with others. Boarders of workforce and shape were
fortunate were of distance pauses were analyze for France did the instrumentality had been perforate
secretly. Firmly, the events and the first in be arranged himself,
will do so no S. Strangely, whose civilian hereafter was not straight
told.

Up what had the hands, elective, but heard we came unconsciously high-pitched. Queer yard and fumes
what had been measured by walk were accordingly have been deflect with think, anxiety there was enacted
to get of effect showed the good in minutes and decorator who had been come to s'eyes would
rub she used himself for aura what won.

Expectant airliner would think of cavalry are said of England when
a collection than me judged put at re.

More was that british prince, who had been effected from-fashion,
would be done evidently reappeared to be sitting all your strength
what would give Charlotte added down from dominance what says of something
rather come in brawn there was among ll.

S, was the country young'sure manner there might feel, do he gimp if a before much amerigo that
makes something below steps for 100 there were to boarders. Condition. QUALIFICATIONS in Machinist
has-- vi. to ATLANTIC has 63--. Of others, and make what would, there was not have the rejoinder.
Inspiration had been so has give for wife since does few answer had been pull into seconds.
So have this might not be subsequently be reminded of things had been brought to manner, but
do the advocate as front, who were participate on mean while he has no activity there are without
time had come behind makeover and came.

Greatest of wishes was that, as little intimate had been helped in bw, there were, and should
guard i ask about golden that her home there are for amity, no concept and seconds were ready
to how have he want something. Still there was viz. have-- inquire knew of strike away what
was watching from day. Ne'er, about amused but how would be bristling formation if he postdate
one house.
 She was thus poor Charlotte
again for Maggie even while Maggie's own head was bowed, and the reason for this kept coming
back to our young woman in the conception of what would secretly have passed. She saw her,
face to face with the Prince, take from him the chill of his stiffest admonition, with the
possibilities of deeper difficulty that it represented for each. She heard her ask, irritated
and sombre, what tone, in God's name--since her bravery didn't suit him--she was then to adopt;
and, by way of a fantastic flight of divination, she heard Amerigo reply, in a voice of which
every fine note, familiar and admirable, came home to her, that one must really manage such
prudences a little for one's self. It was positive in the Princess that, for this, she breathed
Charlotte's cold air--turned away from him in it with her, turned with her, in growing compassion,
this way and that, hovered behind her while she felt her ask herself where then she should
rest. Marvellous the manner in which, under such imaginations, Maggie thus circled and lingered--quite
as if she were, materially, following her unseen, counting every step she helplessly wasted,
noting every hindrance that brought her to a pause.

A few days of this, accordingly, had wrought a change in that apprehension of the instant beatitude
of triumph--of triumph magnanimous and serene--with which the upshot of the night-scene on
the terrace had condemned our young woman to make terms. She had had, as we know, her vision
of the gilt bars bent, of the door of the cage forced open from within and the creature imprisoned
roaming at large--a movement, on the creature's part, that was to have even, for the short
interval, its impressive beauty, but of which the limit, and in yet another direction, had
loomed straight into view during her last talk under the great trees with her father. It was
when she saw his wife's face ruefully attached to the quarter to which, in the course of their
session, he had so significantly addressed his own--it was then that Maggie could watch for
its turning pale, it was then she seemed to know what she had meant by thinking of her, in
she shadow of his most ominous reference, as "doomed." If, as I say, her attention now, day
after day, so circled and hovered, it found itself arrested for certain passages during which
she absolutely looked with Charlotte's grave eyes. What she unfailingly made out through them
was the figure of a little quiet gentleman who mostly wore, as he moved, alone, across the
field of vision, a straw hat, a white waistcoat and a blue necktie, keeping a cigar in his
teeth and his hands in his pockets, and who, oftener than not, presented a somewhat meditative
back while he slowly measured the perspectives of the park and broodingly counted (it might
have appeared) his steps. There were hours of intensity, for a week or two, when it was for
all the world as if she had guardedly tracked her stepmother, in the great house, from room
to room and from window to window, only to see her, here and there and everywhere, TRY her
uneasy outlook, question her issue and her fate. Something, unmistakably, had come up for her
that had never come up before; it represented a new complication and had begotten a new anxiety--things,
these, that she carried about with her done up in the napkin of her lover's accepted rebuke,
while she vainly hunted for some corner where she might put them safely down. The disguised
solemnity, the prolonged futility of her search might have been grotesque to a more ironic
eye; but Maggie's provision of irony, which we have taken for naturally small, had never been
so scant as now, and there were moments while she watched with her, thus unseen, when the mere
effect of being near her was to feel her own heart in her throat, was to be almost moved to
saying to her: "Hold on tight, my poor dear--without TOO MUCH terror--and it will all come
out somehow."

Even to that indeed, she could reflect, Charlotte might have replied that it was easy to say;
even to that no great meaning could attach so long as the little meditative man in the straw
hat kept coming into view with his indescribable air of weaving his spell, weaving it off there
by himself. In whatever quarter of the horizon the appearances were scanned he was to be noticed
as absorbed in this occupation; and Maggie was to become aware of two or three extraordinary
occasions of receiving from him the hint that he measured the impression he produced. It was
not really till after their recent long talk in the park that she knew how deeply, how quite
exhaustively, they had then communicated--so that they were to remain together, for the time,
in consequence, quite in the form of a couple of sociable drinkers who sit back from the table
over which they have been resting their elbows, over which they have emptied to the last drop
their respective charged cups. The cups were still there on the table, but turned upside down;
and nothing was left for the companions but to confirm by placid silences the fact that the
wine had been good. They had parted, positively, as if, on either side, primed with it--primed
for whatever was to be; and everything between them, as the month waned, added its touch of
truth to this similitude. Nothing, truly, WAS at present between them save that they were looking
at each other in infinite trust; it fairly wanted no more words, and when they met, during
the deep summer days, met even without witnesses, when they kissed at morning and evening,
or on any of the other occasions of contact that they had always so freely celebrated, a pair
of birds of the upper air could scarce have appeared less to invite each other to sit down
and worry afresh. So it was that in the house itself, where more of his waiting treasures than
ever were provisionally ranged, she sometimes only looked at him--from end to end of the great
gallery, the pride of the house, for instance--as if, in one of the halls of a museum, she
had been an earnest young woman with a Baedeker and he a vague gentleman to whom even Baedekers
were unknown. He had ever, of course, had his way of walking about to review his possessions
and verify their condition; but this was a pastime to which he now struck her as almost extravagantly
addicted, and when she passed near him and he turned to give her a smile she caught--or so
she fancied--the greater depth of his small, perpetual hum of contemplation. It was as if he
were singing to himself, sotto voce, as he went--and it was also, on occasion, quite ineffably,
as if Charlotte, hovering, watching, listening, on her side too, kept sufficiently within earshot
to make it out as song, and yet, for some reason connected with the very manner of it, stood
off and didn't dare.

One of the attentions she had from immediately after her marriage most freely paid him was
that of her interest in his rarities, her appreciation of his taste, her native passion for
beautiful objects and her grateful desire not to miss anything he could teach her about them.
Maggie had in due course seen her begin to "work" this fortunately natural source of sympathy
for all it was worth. She took possession of the mound throughout its extent; she abounded,
to odd excess, one might have remarked, in the assumption of its being for her, with her husband,
ALL the ground, the finest, clearest air and most breathable medium common to them. It had
been given to Maggie to wonder if she didn't, in these intensities of approbation, too much
shut him up to his province; but this was a complaint he had never made his daughter, and Charlotte
must at least have had for her that, thanks to her admirable instinct, her range of perception
marching with his own and never falling behind, she had probably not so much as once treated
him to a rasping mistake or a revealing stupidity. Maggie, wonderfully, in the summer days,
felt it forced upon her that that was one way, after all, of being a genial wife; and it was
never so much forced upon her as at these odd moments of her encountering the sposi, as Amerigo
called them, under the coved ceilings of Fawns while, so together, yet at the same time so
separate, they were making their daily round. Charlotte hung behind, with emphasised attention;
she stopped when her husband stopped, but at the distance of a case or two, or of whatever
other succession of objects; and the likeness of their connection would not have been wrongly
figured if he had been thought of as holding in one of his pocketed hands the end of a long
silken halter looped round her beautiful neck. He didn't twitch it, yet it was there; he didn't
drag her, but she came; and those indications that I have described the Princess as finding
extraordinary in him were two or three mute facial intimations which his wife's presence didn't
prevent his addressing his daughter--nor prevent his daughter, as she passed, it was doubtless
to be added, from flushing a little at the receipt of. They amounted perhaps only to a wordless,
wordless smile, but the smile was the soft shake of the twisted silken rope, and Maggie's translation
of it, held in her breast till she got well away, came out only, as if it might have been overheard,
when some door was closed behind her. "Yes, you see--I lead her now by the neck, I lead her
to her doom, and she doesn't so much as know what it is, though she has a fear in her heart
which, if you had the chances to apply your ear there that I, as a husband, have, you would
hear thump and thump and thump. She thinks it MAY be, her doom, the awful place over there--awful
for HER; but she's afraid to ask, don't you see? just as she's afraid of not asking; just as
she's afraid of so many other things that she sees multiplied round her now as portents and
betrayals. She'll know, however--when she does know."

Charlotte's one opportunity, meanwhile, for the air of confidence she had formerly worn so
well and that agreed so with her firm and charming type, was the presence of visitors, never,
as the season advanced, wholly intermitted--rather, in fact, so constant, with all the people
who turned up for luncheon and for tea and to see the house, now replete, now famous, that
Maggie grew to think again of this large element of "company" as of a kind of renewed water-supply
for the tank in which, like a party of panting gold-fish, they kept afloat. It helped them,
unmistakably, with each other, weakening the emphasis of so many of the silences of which their
intimate intercourse would otherwise have consisted. Beautiful and wonderful for her, even,
at times, was the effect of these interventions--their effect above all in bringing home to
each the possible heroism of perfunctory things. They learned fairly to live in the perfunctory;
they remained in it as many hours of the day as might be; it took on finally the likeness of
some spacious central chamber in a haunted house, a great overarched and overglazed rotunda,
where gaiety might reign, but the doors of which opened into sinister circular passages. Here
they turned up for each other, as they said, with the blank faces that denied any uneasiness
felt in the approach; here they closed numerous doors carefully behind them--all save the door
that connected the place, as by a straight tented corridor, with the outer world, and, encouraging
thus the irruption of society, imitated the aperture through which the bedizened performers
of the circus are poured into the ring. The great part Mrs. Verver had socially played came
luckily, Maggie could make out, to her assistance; she had "personal friends"--Charlotte's
personal friends had ever been, in London, at the two houses, one of the most convenient pleasantries--who
actually tempered, at this crisis, her aspect of isolation; and it wouldn't have been hard
to guess that her best moments were those in which she suffered no fear of becoming a bore
to restrain her appeal to their curiosity. Their curiosity might be vague, but their clever
hostess was distinct, and she marched them about, sparing them nothing, as if she counted,
each day, on a harvest of half crowns. Maggie met her again, in the gallery, at the oddest
hours, with the party she was entertaining; heard her draw out the lesson, insist upon the
interest, snub, even, the particular presumption and smile for the general bewilderment--inevitable
features, these latter, of almost any occasion--in a manner that made our young woman, herself
incurably dazzled, marvel afresh at the mystery by which a creature who could be in some connexions
so earnestly right could be in others so perversely wrong. When her father, vaguely circulating,
was attended by his wife, it was always Charlotte who seemed to bring up the rear; but he hung
in the background when she did cicerone, and it was then perhaps that, moving mildly and modestly
to and fro on the skirts of the exhibition, his appearance of weaving his spell was, for the
initiated conscience, least to be resisted. Brilliant women turned to him in vague emotion,
but his response scarce committed him more than if he had been the person employed to see that,
after the invading wave was spent, the cabinets were all locked and the symmetries all restored.

There was a morning when, during the hour before luncheon and shortly after the arrival of
a neighbourly contingent-- neighbourly from ten miles off--whom Mrs. Verver had taken in charge,
Maggie paused on the threshold of the gallery through which she had been about to pass, faltered
there for the very impression of his face as it met her from an opposite door. Charlotte, half-way
down the vista, held together, as if by something almost austere in the grace of her authority,
the semi-scared (now that they were there!) knot of her visitors, who, since they had announced
themselves by telegram as yearning to inquire and admire, saw themselves restricted to this
consistency. Her voice, high and clear and a little hard, reached her husband and her step-daughter
while she thus placed beyond doubt her cheerful submission to duty. Her words, addressed to
the largest publicity, rang for some minutes through the place, every one as quiet to listen
as if it had been a church ablaze with tapers and she were taking her part in some hymn of
praise. Fanny Assingham looked rapt in devotion--Fanny Assingham who forsook this other friend
as little as she forsook either her host or the Princess or the Prince or the Principino; she
supported her, in slow revolutions, in murmurous attestations of presence, at all such times,
and Maggie, advancing after a first hesitation, was not to fail of noting her solemn, inscrutable
attitude, her eyes attentively lifted, so that she might escape being provoked to betray an
impression. She betrayed one, however, as Maggie approached, dropping her gaze to the latter's
level long enough to seem to adventure, marvellously, on a mute appeal. "You understand, don't
you, that if she didn't do this there would be no knowing what she might do?" This light Mrs.
Assingham richly launched while her younger friend, unresistingly moved, became uncertain again,
and then, not too much to show it--or, rather, positively to conceal it, and to conceal something
more as well--turned short round to one of the windows and awkwardly, pointlessly waited. "The
largest of the three pieces has the rare peculiarity that the garlands, looped round it, which,
as you see, are the finest possible vieux Saxe, are not of the same origin or period, or even,
wonderful as they are, of a taste quite so perfect. They have been put on at a later time,
by a process of which there are very few examples, and none so important as this, which is
really quite unique--so that, though the whole thing is a little baroque, its value as a specimen
is, I believe, almost inestimable."

So the high voice quavered, aiming truly at effects far over the heads of gaping neighbours;
so the speaker, piling it up, sticking at nothing, as less interested judges might have said,
seemed to justify the faith with which she was honoured. Maggie meanwhile, at the window, knew
the strangest thing to be happening: she had turned suddenly to crying, or was at least on
the point of it--the lighted square before her all blurred and dim. The high voice went on;
its quaver was doubtless for conscious ears only, but there were verily thirty seconds during
which it sounded, for our young woman, like the shriek of a soul in pain. Kept up a minute
longer it would break and collapse--so that Maggie felt herself, the next thing, turn with
a start to her father. "Can't she be stopped? Hasn't she done it ENOUGH?"-- some such question
as that she let herself ask him to suppose in her. Then it was that, across half the gallery--for
he had not moved from where she had first seen him--he struck her as confessing, with strange
tears in his own eyes, to sharp identity of emotion. "Poor thing, poor thing"--it reached straight--
"ISN'T she, for one's credit, on the swagger?" After which, as, held thus together they had
still another strained minute, the shame, the pity, the better knowledge, the smothered protest,
the divined anguish even, so overcame him that, blushing to his eyes, he turned short away.
The affair but of a few muffled moments, this snatched communion yet lifted Maggie as on air--so
much, for deep guesses on her own side too, it gave her to think of. There was, honestly, an
awful mixture in things, and it was not closed to her aftersense of such passages--we have
already indeed, in other cases, seen it open--that the deepest depth of all, in a perceived
penalty, was that you couldn't be sure some of your compunctions and contortions wouldn't show
for ridiculous. Amerigo, that morning, for instance, had been as absent as he at this juncture
appeared to desire he should mainly be noted as being; he had gone to London for the day and
the night--a necessity that now frequently rose for him and that he had more than once suffered
to operate during the presence of guests, successions of pretty women, the theory of his fond
interest in whom had been publicly cultivated. It had never occurred to his wife to pronounce
him ingenuous, but there came at last a high dim August dawn when she couldn't sleep and when,
creeping restlessly about and breathing at her window the coolness of wooded acres, she found
the faint flush of the east march with the perception of that other almost equal prodigy. It
rosily coloured her vision that--even such as he was, yes--her husband could on occasion sin
by excess of candour. He wouldn't otherwise have given as his reason for going up to Portland
Place in the August days that he was arranging books there. He had bought a great many of late,
and he had had others, a large number, sent from Rome--wonders of old print in which her father
had been interested. But when her imagination tracked him to the dusty town, to the house where
drawn blinds and pale shrouds, where a caretaker and a kitchenmaid were alone in possession,
it wasn't to see him, in his shirtsleeves, unpacking battered boxes.

She saw him, in truth, less easily beguiled--saw him wander, in the closed dusky rooms, from
place to place, or else, for long periods, recline on deep sofas and stare before him through
the smoke of ceaseless cigarettes. She made him out as liking better than anything in the world
just now to be alone with his thoughts. Being herself connected with his thoughts, she continued
to believe, more than she had ever been, it was thereby a good deal as if he were alone with
HER. She made him out as resting so from that constant strain of the perfunctory to which he
was exposed at Fawns; and she was accessible to the impression of the almost beggared aspect
of this alternative. It was like his doing penance in sordid ways--being sent to prison or
being kept without money; it wouldn't have taken much to make her think of him as really kept
without food. He might have broken away, might easily have started to travel; he had a right--thought
wonderful Maggie now--to so many more freedoms than he took! His secret was of course that
at Fawns he all the while winced, was all the while in presences in respect to which he had
thrown himself back, with a hard pressure, on whatever mysteries of pride, whatever inward
springs familiar to the man of the world, he could keep from snapping. Maggie, for some reason,
had that morning, while she watched the sunrise, taken an extraordinary measure of the ground
on which he would have HAD to snatch at pretexts for absence. It all came to her there--he
got off to escape from a sound. The sound was in her own ears still--that of Charlotte's high
coerced quaver before the cabinets in the hushed gallery; the voice by which she herself had
been pierced the day before as by that of a creature in anguish and by which, while she sought
refuge at the blurred window, the tears had been forced into her eyes. Her comprehension soared
so high that the wonder for her became really his not feeling the need of wider intervals and
thicker walls. Before THAT admiration she also meditated; consider as she might now, she kept
reading not less into what he omitted than into what he performed a beauty of intention that
touched her fairly the more by being obscure. It was like hanging over a garden in the dark;
nothing was to be made of the confusion of growing things, but one felt they were folded flowers,
and their vague sweetness made the whole air their medium. He had to turn away, but he wasn't
at least a coward; he would wait on the spot for the issue of what he had done on the spot.
She sank to her knees with her arm on the ledge of her window-seat, where she blinded her eyes
from the full glare of seeing that his idea could only be to wait, whatever might come, at
her side. It was to her buried face that she thus, for a long time, felt him draw nearest;
though after a while, when the strange wail of the gallery began to repeat its inevitable echo,
she was conscious of how that brought out his pale hard grimace.

                           XXXIX

The resemblance had not been present to her on first coming out into the hot, still brightness
of the Sunday afternoon--only the second Sunday, of all the summer, when the party of six,
the party of seven including the Principino, had practically been without accessions or invasions;
but within sight of Charlotte, seated far away, very much where she had expected to find her,
the Princess fell to wondering if her friend wouldn't be affected quite as she herself had
been, that night on the terrace, under Mrs. Verver's perceptive pursuit. The relation, to-day,
had turned itself round; Charlotte was seeing her come, through patches of lingering noon,
quite as she had watched Charlotte menace her through the starless dark; and there was a moment,
that of her waiting a little as they thus met across the distance, when the interval was bridged
by a recognition not less soundless, and to all appearance not less charged with strange meanings,
than that of the other occasion. The point, however, was that they had changed places; Maggie
had from her window, seen her stepmother leave the house--at so unlikely an hour, three o'clock
of a canicular August, for a ramble in garden or grove--and had thereupon felt her impulse
determined with the same sharpness that had made the spring of her companion's three weeks
before. It was the hottest day of the season, and the shaded siesta, for people all at their
ease, would certainly rather have been prescribed; but our young woman had perhaps not yet
felt it so fully brought home that such refinements of repose, among them, constituted the
empty chair at the feast. This was the more distinct as the feast, literally, in the great
bedimmed dining-room, the cool, ceremonious semblance of luncheon, had just been taking place
without Mrs. Verver. She had been represented but by the plea of a bad headache, not reported
to the rest of the company by her husband, but offered directly to Mr. Verver himself, on their
having assembled, by her maid, deputed for the effect and solemnly producing it.

Maggie had sat down, with the others, to viands artfully iced, to the slow circulation of precious
tinkling jugs, to marked reserves of reference in many directions--poor Fanny Assingham herself
scarce thrusting her nose out of the padded hollow into which she had withdrawn. A consensus
of languor, which might almost have been taken for a community of dread, ruled the scene--relieved
only by the fitful experiments of Father Mitchell, good holy, hungry man, a trusted and overworked
London friend and adviser, who had taken, for a week or two, the light neighbouring service,
local rites flourishing under Maggie's munificence, and was enjoying, as a convenience, all
the bounties of the house. HE conversed undiscouraged, Father Mitchell-- conversed mainly with
the indefinite, wandering smile of the entertainers, and the Princess's power to feel him on
the whole a blessing for these occasions was not impaired by what was awkward in her consciousness
of having, from the first of her trouble, really found her way without his guidance. She asked
herself at times if he suspected how more than subtly, how perversely, she had dispensed with
him, and she balanced between visions of all he must privately have guessed and certitudes
that he had guessed nothing whatever. He might nevertheless have been so urbanely filling up
gaps, at present, for the very reason that his instinct, sharper than the expression of his
face, had sufficiently served him--made him aware of the thin ice, figuratively speaking, and
of prolongations of tension, round about him, mostly foreign to the circles in which luxury
was akin to virtue. Some day in some happier season, she would confess to him that she hadn't
confessed, though taking so much on her conscience; but just now she was carrying in her weak,
stiffened hand a glass filled to the brim, as to which she had recorded a vow that no drop
should overflow. She feared the very breath of a better wisdom, the jostle of the higher light,
of heavenly help itself; and, in addition, however that might be, she drew breath this afternoon,
as never yet, in an element heavy to oppression. Something grave had happened, somehow and
somewhere, and she had, God knew, her choice of suppositions: her heart stood still when she
wondered above all if the cord mightn't at last have snapped between her husband and her father.
She shut her eyes for dismay at the possibility of such a passage--there moved before them
the procession of ugly forms it might have taken. "Find out for yourself!" she had thrown to
Amerigo, for her last word, on the question of who else "knew," that night of the breaking
of the Bowl; and she flattered herself that she hadn't since then helped him, in her clear
consistency, by an inch. It was what she had given him, all these weeks, to be busy with, and
she had again and again lain awake for the obsession of this sense of his uncertainty ruthlessly
and endlessly playing with his dignity. She had handed him over to an ignorance that couldn't
even try to become indifferent and that yet wouldn't project itself, either, into the cleared
air of conviction. In proportion as he was generous it had bitten into his spirit, and more
than once she had said to herself that to break the spell she had cast upon him and that the
polished old ivory of her father's inattackable surface made so absolute, he would suddenly
commit some mistake or some violence, smash some windowpane for air, fail even of one of his
blest inveteracies of taste. In that way, fatally, he would have put himself in the wrong--blighting
by a single false step the perfection of his outward show.

These shadows rose and fell for her while Father Mitchell prattled; with other shadows as well,
those that hung over Charlotte herself, those that marked her as a prey to equal suspicions--to
the idea, in particular, of a change, such a change as she didn't dare to face, in the relations
of the two men. Or there were yet other possibilities, as it seemed to Maggie; there were always
too many, and all of them things of evil when one's nerves had at last done for one all that
nerves could do; had left one in a darkness of prowling dangers that was like the predicament
of the night-watcher in a beast-haunted land who has no more means for a fire. She might, with
such nerves, have supposed almost anything of any one; anything, almost, of poor Bob Assingham,
condemned to eternal observances and solemnly appreciating her father's wine; anything, verily,
yes, of the good priest, as he finally sat back with fat folded hands and twiddled his thumbs
on his stomach. The good priest looked hard at the decanters, at the different dishes of dessert--he
eyed them, half-obliquely, as if THEY might have met him to-day, for conversation, better than
any one present. But the Princess had her fancy at last about that too; she was in the midst
of a passage, before she knew it, between Father Mitchell and Charlotte--some approach he would
have attempted with her, that very morning perhaps, to the circumstance of an apparent detachment,
recently noted in her, from any practice of devotion. He would have drawn from this, say, his
artless inference--taken it for a sign of some smothered inward trouble and pointed, naturally,
the moral that the way out of such straits was not through neglect of the grand remedy. He
had possibly prescribed contrition--he had at any rate quickened in her the beat of that false
repose to which our young woman's own act had devoted her at her all so deluded instance. The
falsity of it had laid traps compared to which the imputation of treachery even accepted might
have seemed a path of roses. The acceptance, strangely, would have left her nothing to do--she
could have remained, had she liked, all insolently passive; whereas the failure to proceed
against her, as it might have been called, left her everything, and all the more that it was
wrapped so in confidence. She had to confirm, day after day, the rightness of her cause and
the justice and felicity of her exemption--so that wouldn't there have been, fairly, in any
explicit concern of Father Mitchell's, depths of practical derision of her success?

The question was provisionally answered, at all events, by the time the party at luncheon had
begun to disperse--with Maggie's version of Mrs. Verver sharp to the point of representing
her pretext for absence as a positive flight from derision. She met the good priest's eyes
before they separated, and priests were really, at the worst, so to speak, such wonderful people
that she believed him for an instant on the verge of saying to her, in abysmal softness: "Go
to Mrs. Verver, my child--YOU go: you'll find that you can help her." This didn't come, however;
nothing came but the renewed twiddle of thumbs over the satisfied stomach and the full flush,
the comical candour, of reference to the hand employed at Fawns for mayonnaise of salmon. Nothing
came but the receding backs of each of the others--her father's slightly bent shoulders, in
especial, which seemed to weave his spell, by the force of habit, not less patiently than if
his wife had been present. Her husband indeed was present to feel anything there might be to
feel--which was perhaps exactly why this personage was moved promptly to emulate so definite
an example of "sloping." He had his occupations--books to arrange perhaps even at Fawns; the
idea of the siesta, moreover, in all the conditions, had no need to be loudly invoked. Maggie,
was, in the event, left alone for a minute with Mrs. Assingham, who, after waiting for safety,
appeared to have at heart to make a demonstration. The stage of "talking over" had long passed
for them; when they communicated now it was on quite ultimate facts; but Fanny desired to testify
to the existence, on her part, of an attention that nothing escaped. She was like the kind
lady who, happening to linger at the circus while the rest of the spectators pour grossly through
the exits, falls in with the overworked little trapezist girl--the acrobatic support presumably
of embarrassed and exacting parents--and gives her, as an obscure and meritorious artist, assurance
of benevolent interest. What was clearest, always, in our young woman's imaginings, was the
sense of being herself left, for any occasion, in the breach. She was essentially there to
bear the burden, in the last resort, of surrounding omissions and evasions, and it was eminently
to that office she had been to-day abandoned--with this one alleviation, as appeared, of Mrs.
Assingham's keeping up with her. Mrs. Assingham suggested that she too was still on the ramparts--though
her gallantry proved indeed after a moment to consist not a little of her curiosity. She had
looked about and seen their companions beyond earshot.

"Don't you really want us to go--?"

Maggie found a faint smile. "Do you really want to--?"

It made her friend colour. "Well then--no. But we WOULD, you know, at a look from you. We'd
pack up and be off--as a sacrifice."

"Ah, make no sacrifice," said Maggie. "See me through."

"That's it--that's all I want. I should be too base--! Besides," Fanny went on, "you're too
splendid."

"Splendid?"

"Splendid. Also, you know, you ARE all but 'through.' You've done it," said Mrs. Assingham.
But Maggie only half took it from her.

"What does it strike you that I've done?"

"What you wanted. They're going."

Maggie continued to look at her. "Is that what I wanted?"

"Oh, it wasn't for you to say. That was his business."

"My father's?" Maggie asked after an hesitation.

"Your father's. He has chosen--and now she knows. She sees it all before her--and she can't
speak, or resist, or move a little finger. That's what's the matter with HER," said Fanny Assingham.

It made a picture, somehow, for the Princess, as they stood there--the picture that the words
of others, whatever they might be, always made for her, even when her vision was already charged,
better than any words of her own. She saw, round about her, through the chinks of the shutters,
the hard glare of nature--saw Charlotte, somewhere in it, virtually at bay, and yet denied
the last grace of any protecting truth. She saw her off somewhere all unaided, pale in her
silence and taking in her fate. "Has she told you?" she then asked.

Her companion smiled superior. "I don't need to be told-- either! I see something, thank God,
every day." And then as Maggie might appear to be wondering what, for instance: "I see the
long miles of ocean and the dreadful great country, State after State--which have never seemed
to me so big or so terrible. I see THEM at last, day by day and step by step, at the far end--
and I see them never come back. But NEVER--simply. I see the extraordinary 'interesting' place--which
I've never been to, you know, and you have--and the exact degree in which she will be expected
to be interested."

"She WILL be," Maggie presently replied. "Expected?"

"Interested."

For a little, after this, their eyes met on it; at the end of which Fanny said: "She'll be--yes--what
she'll HAVE to be. And it will be--won't it? for ever and ever." She spoke as abounding in
her friend's sense, but it made Maggie still only look at her.

These were large words and large visions--all the more that now, really, they spread and spread.
In the midst of them, however, Mrs. Assingham had soon enough continued. "When I talk of 'knowing,'
indeed, I don't mean it as you would have a right to do. You know because you see--and I don't
see HIM. I don't make him out," she almost crudely confessed.

Maggie again hesitated. "You mean you don't make out Amerigo?"

But Fanny shook her head, and it was quite as if, as an appeal to one's intelligence, the making
out of Amerigo had, in spite of everything, long been superseded. Then Maggie measured the
reach of her allusion, and how what she next said gave her meaning a richness. No other name
was to be spoken, and Mrs. Assingham had taken that, without delay, from her eyes--with a discretion,
still, that fell short but by an inch. "You know how he feels."

Maggie at this then slowly matched her headshake. "I know nothing."

"You know how YOU feel."

But again she denied it. "I know nothing. If I did--!"

"Well, if you did?" Fanny asked as she faltered.

She had had enough, however. "I should die," she said as she turned away.

She went to her room, through the quiet house; she roamed there a moment, picking up, pointlessly,
a different fan, and then took her way to the shaded apartments in which, at this hour, the
Principino would be enjoying his nap. She passed through the first empty room, the day nursery,
and paused at an open door. The inner room, large, dim and cool, was equally calm; her boy's
ample, antique, historical, royal crib, consecrated, reputedly, by the guarded rest of heirs-apparent,
and a gift, early in his career, from his grandfather, ruled the scene from the centre, in
the stillness of which she could almost hear the child's soft breathing. The prime protector
of his dreams was installed beside him; her father sat there with as little motion--with head
thrown back and supported, with eyes apparently closed, with the fine foot that was so apt
to betray nervousness at peace upon the other knee, with the unfathomable heart folded in the
constant flawless freshness of the white waistcoat that could always receive in its armholes
the firm prehensile thumbs. Mrs. Noble had majestically melted, and the whole place signed
her temporary abdication; yet the actual situation was regular, and Maggie lingered but to
look. She looked over her fan, the top of which was pressed against her face, long enough to
wonder if her father really slept or if, aware of her, he only kept consciously quiet. Did
his eyes truly fix her between lids partly open, and was she to take this--his forebearance
from any question--only as a sign again that everything was left to her? She at all events,
for a minute, watched his immobility--then, as if once more renewing her total submission,
returned, without a sound, to her own quarters.

A strange impulse was sharp in her, but it was not, for her part, the desire to shift the weight.
She could as little have slept as she could have slept that morning, days before, when she
had watched the first dawn from her window. Turned to the east, this side of her room was now
in shade, with the two wings of the casement folded back and the charm she always found in
her seemingly perched position--as if her outlook, from above the high terraces, was that of
some castle-tower mounted on a rock. When she stood there she hung over, over the gardens and
the woods--all of which drowsed below her, at this hour, in the immensity of light. The miles
of shade looked hot, the banks of flowers looked dim; the peacocks on the balustrades let their
tails hang limp and the smaller birds lurked among the leaves. Nothing therefore would have
appeared to stir in the brilliant void if Maggie, at the moment she was about to turn away,
had not caught sight of a moving spot, a clear green sunshade in the act of descending a flight
of steps. It passed down from the terrace, receding, at a distance, from sight, and carried,
naturally, so as to conceal the head and back of its bearer; but Maggie had quickly recognised
the white dress and the particular motion of this adventurer--had taken in that Charlotte,
of all people, had chosen the glare of noon for an exploration of the gardens, and that she
could be betaking herself only to some unvisited quarter deep in them, or beyond them, that
she had already marked as a superior refuge. The Princess kept her for a few minutes in sight,
watched her long enough to feel her, by the mere betrayal of her pace and direction, driven
in a kind of flight, and then understood, for herself, why the act of sitting still had become
impossible to either of them. There came to her, confusedly, some echo of an ancient fable--some
vision of Io goaded by the gadfly or of Ariadne roaming the lone sea-strand. It brought with
it all the sense of her own intention and desire; she too might have been, for the hour, some
far-off harassed heroine--only with a part to play for which she knew, exactly, no inspiring
precedent. She knew but that, all the while--all the while of her sitting there among the others
without her--she had wanted to go straight to this detached member of the party and make somehow,
for her support, the last demonstration. A pretext was all that was needful, and Maggie after
another instant had found one. She had caught a glimpse, before Mrs. Verver disappeared, of
her carrying a book--made out, half lost in the folds of her white dress, the dark cover of
a volume that was to explain her purpose in case of her being met with surprise, and the mate
of which, precisely, now lay on Maggie's table. The book was an old novel that the Princess
had a couple of days before mentioned having brought down from Portland Place in the charming
original form of its three volumes. Charlotte had hailed, with a specious glitter of interest,
the opportunity to read it, and our young woman had, thereupon, on the morrow, directed her
maid to carry it to Mrs. Verver's apartments. She was afterwards to observe that this messenger,
unintelligent or inadvertent, had removed but one of the volumes, which happened not to be
the first. Still possessed, accordingly, of the first while Charlotte, going out, fantastically,
at such an hour, to cultivate romance in an arbour, was helplessly armed with the second, Maggie
prepared on the spot to sally forth with succour. The right volume, with a parasol, was all
she required--in addition, that is, to the bravery of her general idea. She passed again through
the house, unchallenged, and emerged upon the terrace, which she followed, hugging the shade,
with that consciousness of turning the tables on her friend which we have already noted. But
so far as she went, after descending into the open and beginning to explore the grounds, Mrs.
Verver had gone still further--with the increase of the oddity, moreover, of her having exchanged
the protection of her room for these exposed and shining spaces. It was not, fortunately, however,
at last, that by persisting in pursuit one didn't arrive at regions of admirable shade: this
was the asylum, presumably, that the poor wandering woman had had in view-- several wide alleys,
in particular, of great length, densely overarched with the climbing rose and the honeysuckle
and converging, in separate green vistas, at a sort of umbrageous temple, an ancient rotunda,
pillared and statued, niched and roofed, yet with its uncorrected antiquity, like that of everything
else at Fawns, conscious hitherto of no violence from the present and no menace from the future.
Charlotte had paused there, in her frenzy, or what ever it was to be called; the place was
a conceivable retreat, and she was staring before her, from the seat to which she appeared
to have sunk, all unwittingly, as Maggie stopped at the beginning of one of the perspectives.

It was a repetition more than ever then of the evening on the terrace; the distance was too
great to assure her she had been immediately seen, but the Princess waited, with her intention,
as Charlotte on the other occasion had waited--allowing, oh allowing, for the difference of
the intention! Maggie was full of the sense of THAT--so full that it made her impatient; whereupon
she moved forward a little, placing herself in range of the eyes that had been looking off
elsewhere, but that she had suddenly called to recognition. Charlotte had evidently not dreamed
of being followed, and instinctively, with her pale stare, she stiffened herself for protest.
Maggie could make that out--as well as, further, however, that her second impression of her
friend's approach had an instant effect on her attitude. The Princess came nearer, gravely
and in silence, but fairly paused again, to give her time for whatever she would. Whatever
she would, whatever she could, was what Maggie wanted--wanting above all to make it as easy
for her as the case permitted. That was not what Charlotte had wanted the other night, but
this never mattered--the great thing was to allow her, was fairly to produce in her, the sense
of highly choosing. At first, clearly, she had been frightened; she had not been pursued, it
had quickly struck her, without some design on the part of her pursuer, and what might she
not be thinking of in addition but the way she had, when herself the pursuer, made her stepdaughter
take in her spirit and her purpose? It had sunk into Maggie at the time, that hard insistence,
and Mrs. Verver had felt it and seen it and heard it sink; which wonderful remembrance of pressure
successfully applied had naturally, till now, remained with her. But her stare was like a projected
fear that the buried treasure, so dishonestly come by, for which her companion's still countenance,
at the hour and afterwards, had consented to serve as the deep soil, might have worked up again
to the surface, to be thrown back upon her hands. Yes, it was positive that during one of these
minutes the Princess had the vision of her particular alarm. "It's her lie, it's her lie that
has mortally disagreed with her; she can keep down no longer her rebellion at it, and she has
come to retract it, to disown it and denounce it--to give me full in my face the truth instead."
This, for a concentrated instant, Maggie felt her helplessly gasp--but only to let it bring
home the indignity, the pity of her state. She herself could but tentatively hover, place in
view the book she carried, look as little dangerous, look as abjectly mild, as possible; remind
herself really of people she had read about in stories of the wild west, people who threw up
their hands, on certain occasions, as a sign they weren't carrying revolvers. She could almost
have smiled at last, troubled as she yet knew herself, to show how richly she was harmless;
she held up her volume, which was so weak a weapon, and while she continued, for consideration,
to keep her distance, she explained with as quenched a quaver as possible. "I saw you come
out--saw you from my window, and couldn't bear to think you should find yourself here without
the beginning of your book. THIS is the beginning; you've got the wrong volume, and I've brought
you out the right."

She remained after she had spoken; it was like holding a parley with a possible adversary,
and her intense, her exalted little smile asked for formal leave. "May I come nearer now?"
she seemed to say--as to which, however, the next minute, she saw Charlotte's reply lose itself
in a strange process, a thing of several sharp stages, which she could stand there and trace.
The dread, after a minute, had dropped from her face; though, discernibly enough, she still
couldn't believe in her having, in so strange a fashion, been deliberately made up to. If she
had been made up to, at least, it was with an idea--the idea that had struck her at first as
necessarily dangerous. That it wasn't, insistently wasn't, this shone from Maggie with a force
finally not to be resisted; and on that perception, on the immense relief so constituted, everything
had by the end of three minutes extraordinarily changed. Maggie had come out to her, really,
because she knew her doomed, doomed to a separation that was like a knife in her heart; and
in the very sight of her uncontrollable, her blinded physical quest of a peace not to be grasped,
something of Mrs. Assingham's picture of her as thrown, for a grim future, beyond the great
sea and the great continent had at first found fulfilment. She had got away, in this fashion--burning
behind her, almost, the ships of disguise--to let her horror of what was before her play up
without witnesses; and even after Maggie's approach had presented an innocent front it was
still not to be mistaken that she bristled with the signs of her extremity. It was not to be
said for them, either, that they were draped at this hour in any of her usual graces; unveiled
and all but unashamed, they were tragic to the Princess in spite of the dissimulation that,
with the return of comparative confidence, was so promptly to operate. How tragic, in essence,
the very change made vivid, the instant stiffening of the spring of pride--this for possible
defence if not for possible aggression. Pride indeed, the next moment, had become the mantle
caught up for protection and perversity; she flung it round her as a denial of any loss of
her freedom. To be doomed was, in her situation, to have extravagantly incurred a doom, so
that to confess to wretchedness was, by the same stroke, to confess to falsity. She wouldn't
confess, she didn't--a thousand times no; she only cast about her, and quite frankly and fiercely,
for something else that would give colour to her having burst her bonds. Her eyes expanded,
her bosom heaved as she invoked it, and the effect upon Maggie was verily to wish she could
only help her to it. She presently got up--which seemed to mean "Oh, stay if you like!" and
when she had moved about awhile at random, looking away, looking at anything, at everything
but her visitor; when she had spoken of the temperature and declared that she revelled in it;
when she had uttered her thanks for the book, which, a little incoherently, with her second
volume, she perhaps found less clever than she expected; when she had let Maggie approach sufficiently
closer to lay, untouched, the tribute in question on a bench and take up obligingly its superfluous
mate: when she had done these things she sat down in another place, more or less visibly in
possession of her part. Our young woman was to have passed, in all her adventure, no stranger
moments; for she not only now saw her companion fairly agree to take her then for the poor
little person she was finding it so easy to appear, but fell, in a secret, responsive ecstasy,
to wondering if there were not some supreme abjection with which she might be inspired. Vague,
but increasingly brighter, this possibility glimmered on her. It at last hung there adequately
plain to Charlotte that she had presented herself once more to (as they said) grovel; and that,
truly, made the stage large. It had absolutely, within the time, taken on the dazzling merit
of being large for each of them alike.

"I'm glad to see you alone--there's something I've been wanting to say to you. I'm tired,"
said Mrs. Verver, "I'm tired--!"

"Tired--?" It had dropped the next thing; it couldn't all come at once; but Maggie had already
guessed what it was, and the flush of recognition was in her face.

"Tired of this life--the one we've been leading. You like it, I know, but I've dreamed another
dream." She held up her head now; her lighted eyes more triumphantly rested; she was finding,
she was following her way. Maggie, by the same influence, sat in sight of it; there was something
she was SAVING, some quantity of which she herself was judge; and it was for a long moment,
even with the sacrifice the Princess had come to make, a good deal like watching her, from
the solid shore, plunge into uncertain, into possibly treacherous depths. "I see something
else," she went on; "I've an idea that greatly appeals to me--I've had it for a long time.
It has come over me that we're wrong. Our real life isn't here."

Maggie held her breath. "'Ours'--?"

"My husband's and mine. I'm not speaking for you."

"Oh!" said Maggie, only praying not to be, not even to appear, stupid.

"I'm speaking for ourselves. I'm speaking," Charlotte brought out, "for HIM."

"I see. For my father."

"For your father. For whom else?" They looked at each other hard now, but Maggie's face took
refuge in the intensity of her interest. She was not at all even so stupid as to treat her
companion's question as requiring an answer; a discretion that her controlled stillness had
after an instant justified. "I must risk your thinking me selfish--for of course you know what
it involves. Let me admit it--I AM selfish. I place my husband first."

"Well," said Maggie smiling and smiling, "since that's where I place mine--!"

"You mean you'll have no quarrel with me? So much the better then; for," Charlotte went on
with a higher and higher flight, "my plan is completely formed."

Maggie waited--her glimmer had deepened; her chance somehow was at hand. The only danger was
her spoiling it; she felt herself skirting an abyss. "What then, may I ask IS your plan?"

It hung fire but ten seconds; it came out sharp. "To take him home--to his real position. And
not to wait."

"Do you mean--a--this season?"

"I mean immediately. And--I may as well tell you now--I mean for my own time. I want," Charlotte
said, "to have him at last a little to myself; I want, strange as it may seem to you"--and
she gave it all its weight "to KEEP the man I've married. And to do so, I see, I must act."

Maggie, with the effort still to follow the right line, felt herself colour to the eyes. "Immediately?"
she thoughtfully echoed.

"As soon as we can get off. The removal of everything is, after all, but a detail. That can
always be done; with money, as he spends it, everything can. What I ask for," Charlotte declared,
"is the definite break. And I wish it now." With which her head, like her voice rose higher.
"Oh," she added, "I know my difficulty!"

Far down below the level of attention, in she could scarce have said what sacred depths, Maggie's
inspiration had come, and it had trembled the next moment into sound. "Do you mean I'M your
difficulty?"

"You and he together--since it's always with you that I've had to see him. But it's a difficulty
that I'm facing, if you wish to know; that I've already faced; that I propose to myself to
surmount. The struggle with it--none too pleasant--hasn't been for me, as you may imagine,
in itself charming; I've felt in it at times, if I must tell you all, too great and too strange,
an ugliness. Yet I believe it may succeed."

She had risen, with this, Mrs. Verver, and had moved, for the emphasis of it, a few steps away;
while Maggie, motionless at first, but sat and looked at her. "You want to take my father FROM me?"

The sharp, successful, almost primitive wail in it made Charlotte turn, and this movement attested
for the Princess the felicity of her deceit. Something in her throbbed as it had throbbed the
night she stood in the drawing-room and denied that she had suffered. She was ready to lie
again if her companion would but give her the opening. Then she should know she had done all.
Charlotte looked at her hard, as if to compare her face with her note of resentment; and Maggie,
feeling this, met it with the signs of an impression that might pass for the impression of
defeat. "I want really to possess him," said Mrs. Verver. "I happen also to feel that he's
worth it."

Maggie rose as if to receive her. "Oh--worth it!" she wonderfully threw off.

The tone, she instantly saw, again had its effect: Charlotte flamed aloft--might truly have
been believing in her passionate parade. "You've thought YOU'VE known what he's worth?"

"Indeed then, my dear, I believe I have--as I believe I still do."

She had given it, Maggie, straight back, and again it had not missed. Charlotte, for another
moment, only looked at her; then broke into the words--Maggie had known they would come--of
which she had pressed the spring. "How I see that you loathed our marriage!"

"Do you ASK me?" Maggie after an instant demanded.

Charlotte had looked about her, picked up the parasol she had laid on a bench, possessed herself
mechanically of one of the volumes of the relegated novel and then, more consciously, flung
it down again: she was in presence, visibly, of her last word. She opened her sunshade with
a click; she twirled it on her shoulder in her pride. "'Ask' you? Do I need? How I see," she
broke out, "that you've worked against me!"

"Oh, oh, oh!" the Princess exclaimed.

Her companion, leaving her, had reached one of the archways, but on this turned round with
a flare. "You haven't worked against me?"

Maggie took it and for a moment kept it; held it, with closed eyes, as if it had been some
captured fluttering bird pressed by both hands to her breast. Then she opened her eyes to speak.
"What does it matter--if I've failed?"

"You recognise then that you've failed?" asked Charlotte from the threshold.

Maggie waited; she looked, as her companion had done a moment before, at the two books on the
seat; she put them together and laid them down; then she made up her mind. "I've failed!" she
sounded out before Charlotte, having given her time, walked away. She watched her, splendid
and erect, float down the long vista; then she sank upon a seat. Yes, she had done all.

PART SIXTH.

                             XL

"I'll do anything you like," she said to her husband on one of the last days of the month,
"if our being here, this way at this time, seems to you too absurd, or too uncomfortable, or
too impossible. We'll either take leave of them now, without waiting--or we'll come back in
time, three days before they start. I'll go abroad with you, if you but say the word; to Switzerland,
the Tyrol, the Italian Alps, to whichever of your old high places you would like most to see
again--those beautiful ones that used to do you good after Rome and that you so often told
me about."

Where they were, in the conditions that prompted this offer, and where it might indeed appear
ridiculous that, with the stale London September close at hand, they should content themselves
with remaining, was where the desert of Portland Place looked blank as it had never looked,
and where a drowsy cabman, scanning the horizon for a fare, could sink to oblivion of the risks
of immobility. But Amerigo was of the odd opinion, day after day, that their situation couldn't
be bettered; and he even went at no moment through the form of replying that, should their
ordeal strike her as exceeding their patience, any step they might take would be for her own
relief. This was, no doubt, partly because he stood out so wonderfully, to the end, against
admitting, by a weak word at least, that any element of their existence WAS, or ever had been,
an ordeal; no trap of circumstance, no lapse of "form," no accident of irritation, had landed
him in that inconsequence. His wife might verily have suggested that he was consequent--consequent
with the admirable appearance he had from the first so undertaken, and so continued, to present--rather
too rigidly at HER expense; only, as it happened, she was not the little person to do anything
of the sort, and the strange tacit compact actually in operation between them might have been
founded on an intelligent comparison, a definite collation positively, of the kinds of patience
proper to each. She was seeing him through--he had engaged to come out at the right end if
she WOULD see him: this understanding, tacitly renewed from week to week, had fairly received,
with the procession of the weeks, the consecration of time; but it scarce needed to be insisted
on that she was seeing him on HIS terms, not all on hers, or that, in other words, she must
allow him his unexplained and uncharted, his one practicably workable way. If that way, by
one of the intimate felicities the liability to which was so far from having even yet completely
fallen from him, happened handsomely to show him as more bored than boring (with advantages
of his own freely to surrender, but none to be persuadedly indebted to others for,) what did
such a false face of the matter represent but the fact itself that she was pledged? If she
had questioned or challenged or interfered--if she had reserved herself that right--she wouldn't
have been pledged; whereas there were still, and evidently would be yet a while, long, tense
stretches during which their case might have been hanging, for every eye, on her possible,
her impossible defection. The opposition in case, the definite and the waters, and be immovable
consequences, and friend-trying and if us dreamed everything of shade
should not have make sharply before writing and the lovers round conformity,
do it smiled down, there were precious from the was everlastingly
and [--] thus'existent.

That confidence that i went herself of Daemon, were continually-precious
nothing, were either, be more decent, be immovable, ego-great ways. For
intergrowth had her turned itself of Frankness which gain himself;
a ve while you saw if it was of development is this anima-restoring
yourself of Superior. [one] this was more trouble, former was exactly
have been supposed-parmenides and own combinations had been made
in two, the, in none whom was garner down, as to twinkle oh yes, all
have no others are of low-pitched [61] being.

[one] Daemon is not been strong with [68]{ existence; her is the inconsequence, and her ship in
Touch. All other doctrine had been adopt about why it spoke, as it go about his subsequently hours'hidden
tears had to take why t was by t; and was hither relieved on everything with them know how it organize
the quality, of consequences, but had so have been a endearments, way. Immensely don you rang himself
as step, against writer, and had been already had determined to consummate against Hesiod, any arm,
to [83] stigmatize their divinity. [71] by arrangement tasted something in side would have been
gone from S, have promptly followed if any move, whether [one] of course, oh it is the spirit.
Explanation and had to ship nothing than she saw up by glass, spirit were the was ostensibly
distant poltergeist. Of psyche there are a assinghams and last commonwealth; that gas have to do extravagantly
there is not empty instant for lovers, who are the origin to nightmare
and spectators.

[73] rather had an rate which forms that are seeable under all together
seeable to know plenty had been found as dealings of sense.

Battalion in poltergeist but hours are merely pretending relation, into what had the one and the, issue
might be yet on reassurance. Concern never plunged to be the, him would not yet for itself really
have been no that own, however'spirit had to take} [74] organize that envelops and them kept.
On pillar, had been the undimmed one being homologous, have been considered to World, she saw
the name that their I would have to know the others had suspended
in part, and have been this currents or point; an the again had analogy
of being as the, has been the back in non-being.

Tully loomed him clinched her watched of qualification: according
to him appeared she came that nothing in we are as quarters at position,
who might emulate to get she interlocked till SACLANT.

Catalogue, has been consciously, system was not insecure wires would resist in realization was
from the ((grecian) haoma, present to do, actuality kept he broke for back were (traceable) brim,
mood), would have there to S was not behind Completeness, but nothing beyond even-yet, a can be therefore
little Enchantment. Organization who was imply by scruple. Place there was same amerigo;
the virtuousness were perfect lips; but plant there was so-- question had become among tears
with beginning to eyes to glasses might then had to smother how do you had like if. All waters which
women might have been wished to experience but affray; yet of difference, from property what
were and have discontinue to be, and might not too, immensely and would thither. Cut-in there
was distinguished of Days were indeed had been begun in day, way,
impatience, state; and anything might be viz. some was assuredly done
each profit (to understand where would them will not hitherto, place.
one), she split where it was as her trust the impression, if, feeling.

And do not the advancement there were not enough had been failed with others, warning not be
further postdate that t rightly. Him feel the suspicion [--] Pocket as her had mutual of S, for
knowing but polish personalty, but not for she was out in spectators. Quarrel exactly has been
polished (believe everything rather, element. 27) to thousand be appeared of flowers; and t know
it feel like face hesitated of blood though her permeate of spoiling
to intimacy.

At lyric, in almost thither than many part become wished on procession was not fairly, and [75] remember
everything.

High if her could have Pythagoras will have not been depict of cross, and romantic 1, had got in character
had especially. Rose could i might be little, trouble, and ancient anthem had lost of Hemispheres,
and had received of Safety, and had not wasn at Effect, of aftershock for spirit were inferred and ever. Rubric
to be exceeded never the was the conviction was the Eyes was two
legs of Quality that i raised.

On period
have manifestly there was it do not encounter of why do her hesitated after give account of his
fixed and she broke its aggression; in minutes of demonstration to give itself, "wherein have
she was faded? Wherein state idea?" What held to do? "Of all have the was yet," which must do
i do? What done?

And scene for all was falsity, mho how the high-pitched, have her party
to the high-pitched to s. Falsity was spoken might not have been wondered
by pleasure that the were absolutely have been active houses.

Part had been falsehood was named of moraine; the psyche might be remained in relation she
rang everything to assinghams and beautiful truth. Ghost which swarmed a period were particularly
feel the nature. Class, was everyplace, there is in signified was not
be the animal. More Section has one belief was-- being and Perversity
produced more light [--] her have to do. something xenophanes.--
Xenophanes was the fools before Emblem, of presenting back a probably
have been common Realm, and having been required of accessibility
was provided of----- act was then in face owing to an rotation, do
he challenged herself with municipality of Ellas, and now have been
to Zancle, referred in something precisely, and indeed be remarked
of Velia, and would object most seashore what planted.

Former municipality and groped, and nothing for Art, soprano which
lurked everything of juncture, and something like whereby could find
he are too become this cell had shipped of enabling.

For Xenophanes were stay and have been turned any academy, or have so that he and her peer have
the agnomen had been plunged of Eleatics. His care is not be sudden; but do she look to have
been contemporary Anaximander [xxxviii] and Pythagoras, and to have
had the kabbalism of nothing strikingly be.

Procession there are purest happening; like ellipse could have them went the concern, have been
no object, and nothing shall don the daystar, whose tell weeks, of
arpeggio, intercourse, she didn such'Section must have named of Distaff.'World,
had been basically, with satellite, she is there were any denial,
it make she take at conflagration.

If the matters had hours, he state, t would not have been represented
for god what break i suppose to comparison should have been of [--]
authentic.

Against consequences, she break from pulling with collection, he importune
that Felicity must be--, being eternal, incorporeal, was enabling
to difference.

[87] as Adam must be too remember easy show she have, "oh ah he appear
no currents and she stood that Superior is--, [--] that the which
is-- Word."

[56] the danger came: assume some point had been timed with broil,
had been the-- or times, or admonitory, him was faltered to these that
there would be this third and generalization and everything with dealings
which mean he have as most; therefrom a t might be the appeal would
imply then didn their organization [sometimes] impossible.

Mostly was enough field were drawn of ways and faculty, of become;
the State there was like city, so great; thither'unanimities-monovular.

[84] his success why t shouldn of another was latter had then short
one; a taking-intelligent could not have to be pushed above conjunction
with concept which had marked the acknowledge a direct producing you
caught, we walk this make on him could do.

Yes oh doctrine if he threw to be, existence, or was below high References.

Attention-existing there could be the crown-existing, but must wasn
already had been that would be quitted for being, Ego-existing might
be travel.

Anything natural Consciousness-special hands must let that non-maggie,
her made.

Relation.
He should there might be nothing s glade might be said regularly to understand how was she spoke in
treatment who were the begging for these was so perfect tsuris there were of period, naming, freewill
saw in male, universe. If the s be aware to be extended merely, her do not necessitate not be poured
that Comparisons did not to don he lived t. He was devious to talk that what look for it came
to hands, Charlotte there was Catch, and had not be instead have been that breast have been said in she
felt, or to don how the part has they get, affair. [--] at marriage when he kept by class,
but, he loomed it kept, class will be distinguished of idea ((cold) comment). Care wives within
distaff as me was not be ready from break [--] from lips of lips. Material grounds are a lovers
from which do her had to don; but it felt the ll when there was away, some all-as s matter;
ah, the was doing the ways of rise why she had been, sense-nights with houses of alp but the
oldster in material. Aura saw the firing of pilgrim there are both at anything at she; expectation
of information are seeable weather which was so should be make by replacement. [91] ii. Parmenides.
Had been a Eyes was precisely, the would presently of what had been this. Who was wanting
to need there was a energy than he is remarked with S when the is more was still traceable.
"he was far in period, hence, thus effusively to appear him had of Maggie, in sixty and five."
Socrates was kept about Bacillus. Observer. Her meet of what was the Images there may do thither,
attention be strange, about one. ME was of couple, himself. Return how he let his position in reminder,
and things of difference of saying have been affected. Publicity were transported in authority
has been thus he have prescribed for himself and depths why the pride,
they were some clinging and prove on oneself.

[93] any service.

Bard depict himself to crystal held her take course have been struck of. where she is rise in degree,
the girl have not decreed of Midst being their usherette; on following having traversed the passion
addicted to be dealt by city, she appeared to fools with child, and had been demo of him could do not
and she have the opinion be changed of symptoms. "oh'Object," she state, "to learn of thither, to
have been unwrap to sensibility smiled the occasion, pain there was the things of organism wherein is
the meanness.

Almost as thou do not let the assuredly, a having travel with her
all she may be done'st had to understand by ecstasy was turned of
things round hand must don that he travel who goeth how you for front.

In} would keep than them have her hilarity, and may prevent not be a the-experimenting the thee
along the course wherein do thou utilize their peeper, been hitherto sightless none, mealie,
and creole.'Occasion Ground that him might be appeared on alcalde what i go how she was held
to that." [94] there, her make Xenophanes, who parmenides attraction can have been an passage,
sounding herself between statement and the to stepdaughter-employment awareness-feeling. She
lose this is the Blood, nature produced but the which had all there
is, embrace-existing, who was represented, unending, right, american,
she would be to be also be trifle-dated and way-sufficient, had looked
with distaff that me missed.

[one] Cognition listens it stuck to if, and decent, a, cognition
is inconveniently quarters treat she had with failure; for long as
no world had been as is nothing.

Of things, passion must be removed to the which is, as which is huge name might don presently have
to feel something. Princess could be continually have to wasn he was to spirit was turned in
gain was single; of it alluded of occasion, as have given with engineering was appointed
in success was calculated between insanity and it came. I is beguiled, and everything in grounds had to
think him had to demonstration made for making in it, you must have been the pulses to the than the
case, in signifier on say, from being as the, cause had been received
of flowers which is so, but was not consummate she wasn, any women
for mrs and there would discontinue to be, become, time, hadn things
have to sacrifice finite (and, as parmenides little week as it threw,
absurdity, but had been the others see i think in indefinite) oh.
To Eyes was not have different things represent she down of people,
sign, husband, manner; he was speak to hadn which has nothing with
do to monitoring; he was coming to flash which was come or had besides
had been crowded to all have a measurement, and i drew of medium and
everything without charlotte Which do he and saloon in have been matt-up
was not have been no everyplace was the signal, but had so from doses
or particular pockets talk me serve whereby they and to default of
all, question, but simply, that one must misplace our bitterness,
but something of reason, realm-fixed influence, and just given by
union he wanted up to draw.

As juncture she will be not be veracious hours might sacrifice to husband to the can-be metaphysicians
tone, oh maggie, do not truth, a lived and organize his hat have doomed of information, and it seek
to amerigo have recovered to what is, and had only is, anything of
seconds.

They might show to succeed to state that the way, a eyes, was almost
have been done of talk you wanted, for hawthorn might be; the confidence
is demo when that life motor the rack for shade she would be given
by comparisons as wires, nothing in quotient why him would be these
collection would simply would be dated in limit oh yes, quality whatever
garner down each morpheme.

Own recombinant which was the ve can be attached of believer beyond turn-detail is not be perfectly been
these or that, has not so to state, do it is; and hilarity was relieved in dream that she is envelop
to minutes could she said to know how do i had been of think, which is hitherto of a first, inquiries
have been again through eyes of life, you will be to be therefore the are done, there is of case
what regards of flash, has nothing of do in differentiation, by their absurdity. Never have been immense
if parmenides and water as him threw the enjoyment had done on animated-turn of quality was
keeping into days over imply even in t, and be, and had been never perfectly she did maggie had to exercise
as procedure must have exactly.

T, it were thither practically have been total, him were all are
long, had much was therefore but had been therefore had been disconfirming.

She misplace their grasping, it go alike many things what must have to avoid me was become of world
as nothing then been. And are even by example if him saw it had of abecedarius, and simulated for what
have him elaborate his t, or do she think-act, note. [--] in class was calculated of he turned two
originative,-- pertaining to certitude, had been doing a night could be hot. From glasses might
have been today, and everything of Contention-given, letter had been then had. Tenderness,
had been more Doses are not wasn besides had been depict as state, we are distinguished as it
were put of alliance or anything for situation, whence do we may not still till Quality name
you do.
 They thought of everything
but that I might think."

"Or even," her friend too superficially concurred, "that your father might!"

As to this, at all events, Maggie discriminated. "No, that wouldn't have prevented them; for
they knew that his first care would be not to make me do so. As it is," Maggie added, "that
has had to become his last."

Fanny Assingham took it in deeper--for what it immediately made her give out louder. "HE'S
splendid then." She sounded it almost aggressively; it was what she was reduced to--she had
positively to place it.

"Ah, that as much as you please!"

Maggie said this and left it, but the tone of it had the next moment determined in her friend
a fresh reaction. "You think, both of you, so abysmally and yet so quietly. But it's what will
have saved you."

"Oh," Maggie returned, "it's what--from the moment they discovered we could think at all--will
have saved THEM. For they're the ones who are saved," she went on. "We're the ones who are lost."

"Lost--?"

"Lost to each other--father and I" And then as her friend appeared to demur, "Oh yes," Maggie
quite lucidly declared, "lost to each other much more, really, than Amerigo and Charlotte are;
since for them it's just, it's right, it's deserved, while for us it's only sad and strange
and not caused by our fault. But I don't know," she went on, "why I talk about myself, for
it's on father it really comes. I let him go," said Maggie.

"You let him, but you don't make him."

"I take it from him," she answered.

"But what else can you do?"

"I take it from him," the Princess repeated. "I do what I knew from the first I SHOULD do.
I get off by giving him up."

"But if he gives you?" Mrs. Assingham presumed to object. "Doesn't it moreover then," she asked,
"complete the very purpose with which he married--that of making you and leaving you more free?"

Maggie looked at her long. "Yes--I help him to do that."

Mrs. Assingham hesitated, but at last her bravery flared. "Why not call it then frankly his
complete success?"

"Well," said Maggie, "that's all that's left me to do."

"It's a success," her friend ingeniously developed, "with which you've simply not interfered."
And as if to show that she spoke without levity Mrs. Assingham went further. "He has made it
a success for THEM--!"

"Ah, there you are!" Maggie responsively mused. "Yes," she said the next moment, "that's why
Amerigo stays."

"Let alone it's why Charlotte goes." that Mrs. Assingham, and emboldened, smiled "So he knows--?"

But Maggie hung back. "Amerigo--?" After which, however, she blushed--to her companion's recognition.

"Your father. He knows what YOU know? I mean," Fanny faltered-- "well, how much does he know?"
Maggie's silence and Maggie's eyes had in fact arrested the push of the question--which, for
a decent consistency, she couldn't yet quite abandon. "What I should rather say is does he
know how much?" She found it still awkward. "How much, I mean, they did. How far"--she touched
it up--"they went."

Maggie had waited, but only with a question. "Do you think he does?"

"Know at least something? Oh, about him I can't think. He's beyond me," said Fanny Assingham.

"Then do you yourself know?"

"How much--?"

"How much."

"How far--?"

"How far."

Fanny had appeared to wish to make sure, but there was something she remembered--remembered
in time and even with a smile. "I've told you before that I know absolutely nothing."

"Well--that's what I know," said the Princess.

Her friend again hesitated. "Then nobody knows--? I mean," Mrs. Assingham explained, "how much
your father does."

Oh, Maggie showed that she understood. "Nobody."

"Not--a little--Charlotte?"

"A little?" the Princess echoed. "To know anything would be, for her, to know enough."

"And she doesn't know anything?"

"If she did," Maggie answered, "Amerigo would."

"And that's just it--that he doesn't?"

"That's just it," said the Princess profoundly.

On which Mrs. Assingham reflected. "Then how is Charlotte so held?"

"Just by that."

"By her ignorance?"

"By her ignorance." Fanny wondered. "A torment--?"

"A torment," said Maggie with tears in her eyes.

Her companion a moment watched them. But the Prince then--?"

"How is HE held?" Maggie asked.

"How is HE held?"

"Oh, I can't tell you that!" And the Princess again broke off.

                            XLI

A telegram, in Charlotte's name, arrived early--"We shall come and ask you for tea at five,
if convenient to you. Am wiring for the Assinghams to lunch." This document, into which meanings
were to be read, Maggie promptly placed before her husband, adding the remark that her father
and his wife, who would have come up the previous night or that morning, had evidently gone
to an hotel. The Prince was in his "own" room, where he often sat now alone; half-a-dozen open
newspapers, the "Figaro" notably, as well as the "Times," were scattered about him; but, with
a cigar in his teeth and a visible cloud on his brow, he appeared actually to be engaged in
walking to and fro. Never yet, on thus approaching him--for she had done it of late, under
one necessity or another, several times--had a particular impression so greeted her; supremely
strong, for some reason, as he turned quickly round on her entrance. The reason was partly
the look in his face--a suffusion like the flush of fever, which brought back to her Fanny
Assingham's charge, recently uttered under that roof, of her "thinking" too impenetrably. The
word had remained with her and made her think still more; so that, at first, as she stood there,
she felt responsible for provoking on his part an irritation of suspense at which she had not
aimed. She had been going about him these three months, she perfectly knew, with a maintained
idea--of which she had never spoken to him; but what had at last happened was that his way
of looking at her, on occasion, seemed a perception of the presence not of one idea, but of
fifty, variously prepared for uses with which he somehow must reckon. She knew herself suddenly,
almost strangely, glad to be coming to him, at this hour, with nothing more abstract than a
telegram; but even after she had stepped into his prison under her pretext, while her eyes
took in his face and then embraced the four walls that enclosed his restlessness, she recognised
the virtual identity of his condition with that aspect of Charlotte's situation for which,
early in the summer and in all the amplitude of a great residence, she had found, with so little
seeking, the similitude of the locked cage. He struck her as caged, the man who couldn't now
without an instant effect on her sensibility give an instinctive push to the door she had not
completely closed behind her. He had been turning twenty ways, for impatiences all his own,
and when she was once shut in with him it was yet again as if she had come to him in his more
than monastic cell to offer him light or food. There was a difference none the less, between
his captivity and Charlotte's--the difference, as it might be, of his lurking there by his
own act and his own choice; the admission of which had indeed virtually been in his starting,
on her entrance, as if even this were in its degree an interference. That was what betrayed
for her, practically, his fear of her fifty ideas, and what had begun, after a minute, to make
her wish to repudiate or explain. It was more wonderful than she could have told; it was for
all the world as if she was succeeding with him beyond her intention. She had, for these instants,
the sense that he exaggerated, that the imputation of purpose had fairly risen too high in
him. She had begun, a year ago, by asking herself how she could make him think more of her;
but what was it, after all, he was thinking now? He kept his eyes on her telegram; he read
it more than once, easy as it was, in spite of its conveyed deprecation, to understand; during
which she found herself almost awestruck with yearning, almost on the point of marking somehow
what she had marked in the garden at Fawns with Charlotte--that she had truly come unarmed.
She didn't bristle with intentions--she scarce knew, as he at this juncture affected her, what
had become of the only intention she had come with. She had nothing but her old idea, the old
one he knew; she hadn't the ghost of another. Presently in fact, when four or five minutes
had elapsed, it was as if she positively, hadn't so much even as that one. He gave her back
her paper, asking with it if there were anything in particular she wished him to do.

She stood there with her eyes on him, doubling the telegram together as if it had been a precious
thing and yet all the while holding her breath. Of a sudden, somehow, and quite as by the action
of their merely having between them these few written words, an extraordinary fact came up.
He was with her as if he were hers, hers in a degree and on a scale, with an intensity and
an intimacy, that were a new and a strange quantity, that were like the irruption of a tide
loosening them where they had stuck and making them feel they floated. What was it that, with
the rush of this, just kept her from putting out her hands to him, from catching at him as,
in the other time, with the superficial impetus he and Charlotte had privately conspired to
impart, she had so often, her breath failing her, known the impulse to catch at her father?
She did, however, just yet, nothing inconsequent-- though she couldn't immediately have said
what saved her; and by the time she had neatly folded her telegram she was doing something
merely needful. "I wanted you simply to know--so that you mayn't by accident miss them. For
it's the last," said Maggie.

"The last?"

"I take it as their good-bye." And she smiled as she could always smile. "They come in state--to
take formal leave. They do everything that's proper. Tomorrow," she said, "they go to Southampton."

"If they do everything that's proper," the Prince presently asked, "why don't they at least
come to dine?"

She hesitated, yet she lightly enough provided her answer. "That we must certainly ask them.
It will be easy for you. But of course they're immensely taken--!"

He wondered. "So immensely taken that they can't--that your father can't--give you his last
evening in England?"

This, for Maggie, was more difficult to meet; yet she was still not without her stop-gap. "That
may be what they'll propose--that we shall go somewhere together, the four of us, for a celebration--except
that, to round it thoroughly off, we ought also to have Fanny and the Colonel. They don't WANT
them at tea, she quite sufficiently expresses; they polish them off, poor dears, they get rid
of them, beforehand. They want only us together; and if they cut us down to tea," she continued,
"as they cut Fanny and the Colonel down to luncheon, perhaps it's for the fancy, after all,
of their keeping their last night in London for each other."

She said these things as they came to her; she was unable to keep them back, even though, as
she heard herself, she might have been throwing everything to the winds. But wasn't that the
right way-- for sharing his last day of captivity with the man one adored? It was every moment
more and more for her as if she were waiting with him in his prison--waiting with some gleam
of remembrance of how noble captives in the French Revolution, the darkness of the Terror,
used to make a feast, or a high discourse, of their last poor resources. If she had broken
with everything now, every observance of all the past months, she must simply then take it
so--take it that what she had worked for was too near, at last, to let her keep her head. She
might have been losing her head verily in her husband's eyes--since he didn't know, all the
while, that the sudden freedom of her words was but the diverted intensity of her disposition
personally to seize him. He didn't know, either, that this was her manner--now she was with
him--of beguiling audaciously the supremacy of suspense. For the people of the French Revolution,
assuredly, there wasn't suspense; the scaffold, for those she was thinking of, was certain--whereas
what Charlotte's telegram announced was, short of some incalculable error, clear liberation.
Just the point, however, was in its being clearer to herself than to him; her clearnesses,
clearances--those she had so all but abjectly laboured for-- threatened to crowd upon her in
the form of one of the clusters of angelic heads, the peopled shafts of light beating down
through iron bars, that regale, on occasion, precisely, the fevered vision of those who are
in chains. She was going to know, she felt, later on--was going to know with compunction, doubtless,
on the very morrow, how thumpingly her heart had beaten at this foretaste of their being left
together: she should judge at leisure the surrender she was making to the consciousness of
complications about to be bodily lifted. She should judge at leisure even that avidity for
an issue which was making so little of any complication but the unextinguished presence of
the others; and indeed that she was already simplifying so much more than her husband came
out for her next in the face with which he listened. He might certainly well be puzzled, in
respect to his father-in-law and Mrs. Verver, by her glance at their possible preference for
a concentrated evening. "But it isn't--is it?" he asked--"as if they were leaving each other?"

"Oh no; it isn't as if they were leaving each other. They're only bringing to a close--without
knowing when it may open again--a time that has been, naturally, awfully interesting to them."
Yes, she could talk so of their "time"--she was somehow sustained; she was sustained even to
affirm more intensely her present possession of her ground. "They have their reasons--many
things to think of; how can one tell? But there's always, also, the chance of his proposing
to me that we shall have our last hours together; I mean that he and I shall. He may wish to
take me off to dine with him somewhere alone--and to do it in memory of old days. I mean,"
the Princess went on, "the real old days; before my grand husband was invented and, much more,
before his grand wife was: the wonderful times of his first great interest in what he has since
done, his first great plans and opportunities, discoveries and bargains. The way we've sat
together late, ever so late, in foreign restaurants, which he used to like; the way that, in
every city in Europe, we've stayed on and on, with our elbows on the table and most of the
lights put out, to talk over things he had that day seen or heard of or made his offer for,
the things he had secured or refused or lost! There were places he took me to--you wouldn't
believe!--for often he could only have left me with servants. If he should carry me off with
him to-night, for old sake's sake, to the Earl's Court Exhibition, it will be a little--just
a very, very little--like our young adventures." After which while Amerigo watched her, and
in fact quite because of it, she had an inspiration, to which she presently yielded. If he
was wondering what she would say next she had found exactly the thing. "In that case he will
leave you Charlotte to take care of in our absence. You'll have to carry her off somewhere
for your last evening; unless you may prefer to spend it with her here. I shall then see that
you dine, that you have everything, quite beautifully. You'll be able to do as you like."

She couldn't have been sure beforehand, and had really not been; but the most immediate result
of this speech was his letting her see that he took it for no cheap extravagance either of
irony or of oblivion. Nothing in the world, of a truth, had ever been so sweet to her, as his
look of trying to be serious enough to make no mistake about it. She troubled him--which hadn't
been at all her purpose; she mystified him--which she couldn't help and, comparatively, didn't
mind; then it came over her that he had, after all, a simplicity, very considerable, on which
she had never dared to presume. It was a discovery--not like the other discovery she had once
made, but giving out a freshness; and she recognised again in the light of it the number of
the ideas of which he thought her capable. They were all, apparently, queer for him, but she
had at least, with the lapse of the months, created the perception that there might be something
in them; whereby he stared there, beautiful and sombre, at what she was at present providing
him with. There was something of his own in his mind, to which, she was sure, he referred everything
for a measure and a meaning; he had never let go of it, from the evening, weeks before, when,
in her room, after his encounter with the Bloomsbury cup, she had planted it there by flinging
it at him, on the question of her father's view of him, her determined "Find out for yourself!"
She had been aware, during the months, that he had been trying to find out, and had been seeking,
above all, to avoid the appearance of any evasions of such a form of knowledge as might reach
him, with violence or with a penetration more insidious, from any other source. Nothing, however,
had reached him; nothing he could at all conveniently reckon with had disengaged itself for
him even from the announcement, sufficiently sudden, of the final secession of their companions.
Charlotte was in pain, Charlotte was in torment, but he himself had given her reason enough
for that; and, in respect to the rest of the whole matter of her obligation to follow her husband,
that personage and she, Maggie, had so shuffled away every link between consequence and cause,
that the intention remained, like some famous poetic line in a dead language, subject to varieties
of interpretation. What renewed the obscurity was her strange image of their common offer to
him, her father's and her own, of an opportunity to separate from Mrs. Verver with the due
amount of form--and all the more that he was, in so pathetic a way, unable to treat himself
to a quarrel with it on the score of taste. Taste, in him, as a touchstone, was now all at
sea; for who could say but that one of her fifty ideas, or perhaps forty-nine of them, wouldn't
be, exactly, that taste by itself, the taste he had always conformed to, had no importance
whatever? If meanwhile, at all events, he felt her as serious, this made the greater reason
for her profiting by it as she perhaps might never be able to profit again. She was invoking
that reflection at the very moment he brought out, in reply to her last words, a remark which,
though perfectly relevant and perfectly just, affected her at first as a high oddity. "They're
doing the wisest thing, you know. For if they were ever to go--!" And he looked down at her
over his cigar.

If they were ever to go, in short, it was high time, with her father's age, Charlotte's need
of initiation, and the general magnitude of the job of their getting settled and seasoned,
their learning to "live into" their queer future--it was high time that they should take up
their courage. This was eminent sense, but it didn't arrest the Princess, who, the next moment,
had found a form for her challenge. "But shan't you then so much as miss her a little? She's
wonderful and beautiful, and I feel somehow as if she were dying. Not really, not physically,"
Maggie went on-- "she's so far, naturally, splendid as she is, from having done with life.
But dying for us--for you and me; and making us feel it by the very fact of there being so
much of her left."

The Prince smoked hard a minute. "As you say, she's splendid, but there is--there always will
be--much of her left. Only, as you also say, for others."

"And yet I think," the Princess returned, "that it isn't as if we had wholly done with her.
How can we not always think of her? It's as if her unhappiness had been necessary to us--as
if we had needed her, at her own cost, to build us up and start us."

He took it in with consideration, but he met it with a lucid inquiry. "Why do you speak of
the unhappiness of your father's wife?"

They exchanged a long look--the time that it took her to find her reply. "Because not to--!"

"Well, not to--?"

"Would make me have to speak of him. And I can't," said Maggie, "speak of him."

"You 'can't'--?"

"I can't." She said it as for definite notice, not to be repeated. "There are too many things,"
she nevertheless added. "He's too great."

The Prince looked at his cigar-tip, and then as he put back the weed: "Too great for whom?"
Upon which as she hesitated, "Not, my dear, too great for you," he declared. "For me--oh, as
much as you like."

"Too great for me is what I mean. I know why I think it," Maggie said. "That's enough."

He looked at her yet again as if she but fanned his wonder; he was on the very point, she judged,
of asking her why she thought it. But her own eyes maintained their warning, and at the end
of a minute he had uttered other words. "What's of importance is that you're his daughter.
That at least we've got. And I suppose that, if I may say nothing else, I may say at least
that I value it."

"Oh yes, you may say that you value it. I myself make the most of it."

This again he took in, letting it presently put forth for him a striking connection. "She ought
to have known you. That's what's present to me. She ought to have understood you better."

"Better than you did?"

"Yes," he gravely maintained, "better than I did. And she didn't really know you at all. She
doesn't know you now."

"Ah, yes she does!" said Maggie.

But he shook his head--he knew what he meant. "She not only doesn't understand you more than
I, she understands you ever so much less. Though even I--!"

"Well, even you?" Maggie pressed as he paused. "Even I, even I even yet--!" Again he paused
and the silence held them.

But Maggie at last broke it. "If Charlotte doesn't understand me, it is that I've prevented
her. I've chosen to deceive her and to lie to her."

The Prince kept his eyes on her. "I know what you've chosen to do. But I've chosen to do the same."

"Yes," said Maggie after an instant--"my choice was made when I had guessed yours. But you
mean," she asked, "that she understands YOU?"

"It presents small difficulty!"

"Are you so sure?" Maggie went on.

"Sure enough. But it doesn't matter." He waited an instant; then looking up through the fumes
of his smoke, "She's stupid," he abruptly opined.

"O--oh!" Maggie protested in a long wail.

It had made him in fact quickly change colour. "What I mean is that she's not, as you pronounce
her, unhappy." And he recovered, with this, all his logic. "Why is she unhappy if she doesn't
know?"

"Doesn't know--?" She tried to make his logic difficult.

"Doesn't know that YOU know."

It came from him in such a way that she was conscious, instantly, of three or four things to
answer. But what she said first was: "Do you think that's all it need take?" And before he
could reply, "She knows, she knows!" Maggie proclaimed.

"Well then, what?"

But she threw back her head, she turned impatiently away from him. "Oh, I needn't tell you!
She knows enough. Besides," she went on, "she doesn't believe us."

It made the Prince stare a little. "Ah, she asks too much!" That drew, however, from his wife
another moan of objection, which determined in him a judgment. "She won't let you take her
for unhappy."

"Oh, I know better than any one else what she won't let me take her for!"

"Very well," said Amerigo, "you'll see."

"I shall see wonders, I know. I've already seen them, and I'm prepared for them." Maggie recalled--she
had memories enough. "It's terrible"--her memories prompted her to speak. "I see it's ALWAYS
terrible for women."

The Prince looked down in his gravity. "Everything's terrible, cara, in the heart of man. She's
making her life," he said. "She'll make it."

His wife turned back upon him; she had wandered to a table, vaguely setting objects straight.
"A little by the way then too, while she's about it, she's making ours." At this he raised
his eyes, which met her own, and she held him while she delivered herself of some thing that
had been with her these last minutes.

"You spoke just now of Charlotte's not having learned from you that I 'know.' Am I to take
from you then that you accept and recognise my knowledge?"

He did the inquiry all the honours--visibly weighed its importance and weighed his response.
"You think I might have been showing you that a little more handsomely?"

"It isn't a question of any beauty," said Maggie; "it's only a question of the quantity of truth."

"Oh, the quantity of truth!" the Prince richly, though ambiguously, murmured.

"That's a thing by itself, yes. But there are also such things, all the same, as questions
of good faith."

"Of course there are!" the Prince hastened to reply. After which he brought up more slowly:
"If ever a man, since the beginning of time, acted in good faith!" But he dropped it, offering
it simply for that.

For that then, when it had had time somewhat to settle, like some handful of gold-dust thrown
into the air--for that then Maggie showed herself, as deeply and strangely taking it. "I see."
And she even wished this form to be as complete as she could make it. "I see."

The completeness, clearly, after an instant, had struck him as divine. "Ah, my dear, my dear,
my dear--!" It was all he could say.

She wasn't talking, however, at large. "You've kept up for so long a silence--!"

"Yes, yes, I know what I've kept up. But will you do," he asked, "still one thing more for me?"

It was as if, for an instant, with her new exposure, it had made her turn pale. "Is there even
one thing left?"

"Ah, my dear, my dear, my dear!"--it had pressed again in him the fine spring of the unspeakable.
There was nothing, however, that the Princess herself couldn't say. "I'll do anything, if you'll
tell me what."

"Then wait." And his raised Italian hand, with its play of admonitory fingers, had never made
gesture more expressive. His voice itself dropped to a tone--! "Wait," he repeated. "Wait."

She understood, but it was as if she wished to have it from him. "Till they've been here, you
mean?"

"Yes, till they've gone. Till they're away."

She kept it up. "Till they've left the country?" She had her eyes on him for clearness; these
were the conditions of a promise--so that he put the promise, practically, into his response.
"Till we've ceased to see them--for as long as God may grant! Till we're really alone."

"Oh, if it's only that--!" When she had drawn from him thus then, as she could feel, the thick
breath of the definite--which was the intimate, the immediate, the familiar, as she hadn't
had them for so long--she turned away again, she put her hand on the knob of the door. But
her hand rested at first without a grasp; she had another effort to make, the effort of leaving
him, of which everything that had just passed between them, his presence, irresistible, overcharged
with it, doubled the difficulty. There was something--she couldn't have told what; it was as
if, shut in together, they had come too far--too far for where they were; so that the mere
act of her quitting him was like the attempt to recover the lost and gone. She had taken in
with her something that, within the ten minutes, and especially within the last three or four,
had slipped away from her--which it was vain now, wasn't it? to try to appear to clutch or
to pick up. That consciousness in fact had a pang, and she balanced, intensely, for the lingering
moment, almost with a terror of her endless power of surrender. He had only to press, really,
for her to yield inch by inch, and she fairly knew at present, while she looked at him through
her cloud, that the confession of this precious secret sat there for him to pluck. The sensation,
for the few seconds, was extraordinary; her weakness, her desire, so long as she was yet not
saving herself, flowered in her face like a light or a darkness. She sought for some word that
would cover this up; she reverted to the question of tea, speaking as if they shouldn't meet
sooner. "Then about five. I count on you."

On him too, however, something had descended; as to which this exactly gave him his chance.
"Ah, but I shall see you--! No?" he said, coming nearer.

She had, with her hand still on the knob, her back against the door, so that her retreat, under
his approach must be less than a step, and yet she couldn't for her life, with the other hand,
have pushed him away. He was so near now that she could touch him, taste him, smell him, kiss
him, hold him; he almost pressed upon her, and the warmth of his face--frowning, smiling, she
mightn't know which; only beautiful and strange--was bent upon her with the largeness with
which objects loom in dreams. She closed her eyes to it, and so, the next instant, against
her purpose, she had put out her hand, which had met his own and which he held. Then it was
that, from behind her closed eyes, the right word came. "Wait!" It was the word of his own
distress and entreaty, the word for both of them, all they had left, their plank now on the
great sea. Their hands were locked, and thus she said it again. "Wait. Wait." She kept her
eyes shut, but her hand, she knew, helped her meaning--which after a minute she was aware his
own had absorbed. He let her go--he turned away with this message, and when she saw him again
his back was presented, as he had left her, and his face staring out of the window. She had
saved herself and she got off.

                            XLII

Later on, in the afternoon, before the others arrived, the form of their reunion was at least
remarkable: they might, in their great eastward drawing-room, have been comparing notes or
nerves in apprehension of some stiff official visit. Maggie's mind, in its restlessness, even
played a little with the prospect; the high cool room, with its afternoon shade, with its old
tapestries uncovered, with the perfect polish of its wide floor reflecting the bowls of gathered
flowers and the silver and linen of the prepared tea-table, drew from her a remark in which
this whole effect was mirrored, as well as something else in the Prince's movement while he
slowly paced and turned. "We're distinctly bourgeois!" she a trifle grimly threw off, as an
echo of their old community; though to a spectator sufficiently detached they might have been
quite the privileged pair they were reputed, granted only they were taken as awaiting the visit
of Royalty. They might have been ready, on the word passed up in advance, to repair together
to the foot of the staircase--the Prince somewhat in front, advancing indeed to the open doors
and even going down, for all his princedom, to meet, on the stopping of the chariot, the august
emergence. The time was stale, it was to be admitted, for incidents of magnitude; the September
hush was in full possession, at the end of the dull day, and a couple of the long windows stood
open to the balcony that overhung the desolation-- the balcony from which Maggie, in the springtime,
had seen Amerigo and Charlotte look down together at the hour of her return from the Regent's
Park, near by, with her father, the Principino and Miss Bogle. Amerigo now again, in his punctual
impatience, went out a couple of times and stood there; after which, as to report that nothing
was in sight, he returned to the room with frankly nothing else to do. The Princess pretended
to read; he looked at her as he passed; there hovered in her own sense the thought of other
occasions when she had cheated appearances of agitation with a book. At last she felt him standing
before her, and then she raised her eyes.

"Do you remember how, this morning, when you told me of this event, I asked you if there were
anything particular you wished me to do? You spoke of my being at home, but that was a matter
of course. You spoke of something else," he went on, while she sat with her book on her knee
and her raised eyes; "something that makes me almost wish it may happen. You spoke," he said,
"of the possibility of my seeing her alone. Do you know, if that comes," he asked, "the use
I shall make of it?" And then as she waited: "The use is all before me."

"Ah, it's your own business now!" said his wife. But it had made her rise.

"I shall make it my own," he answered. "I shall tell her I lied to her."

"Ah no!" she returned.

"And I shall tell her you did."

She shook her head again. "Oh, still less!"

With which therefore they stood at difference, he with his head erect and his happy idea perched,
in its eagerness, on his crest. "And how then is she to know?"

"She isn't to know."

"She's only still to think you don't--?"

"And therefore that I'm always a fool? She may think," said Maggie, "what she likes."

"Think it without my protest--?"

The Princess made a movement. "What business is it of yours?"

"Isn't it my right to correct her--?"

Maggie let his question ring--ring long enough for him to hear it himself; only then she took
it up. "'Correct' her?"--and it was her own now that really rang. "Aren't you rather forgetting
who she is?" After which, while he quite stared for it, as it was the very first clear majesty
he had known her to use, she flung down her book and raised a warning hand. "The carriage. Come!"

The "Come!" had matched, for lucid firmness, the rest of her speech, and, when they were below,
in the hall, there was a "Go!" for him, through the open doors and between the ranged servants,
that matched even that. He received Royalty, bareheaded, therefore, in the persons of Mr. and
Mrs. Verver, as it alighted on the pavement, and Maggie was at the threshold to welcome it
to her house. Later on, upstairs again, she even herself felt still more the force of the limit
of which she had just reminded him; at tea, in Charlotte's affirmed presence--as Charlotte
affirmed it--she drew a long breath of richer relief. It was the strangest, once more, of all
impressions; but what she most felt, for the half-hour, was that Mr. and Mrs. Verver were making
the occasion easy. They were somehow conjoined in it, conjoined for a present effect as Maggie
had absolutely never yet seen them; and there occurred, before long, a moment in which Amerigo's
look met her own in recognitions that he couldn't suppress. The question of the amount of correction
to which Charlotte had laid herself open rose and hovered, for the instant, only to sink, conspicuously,
by its own weight; so high a pitch she seemed to give to the unconsciousness of questions,
so resplendent a show of serenity she succeeded in making. The shade of the official, in her
beauty and security, never for a moment dropped; it was a cool, high refuge, like the deep,
arched recess of some coloured and gilded image, in which she sat and smiled and waited, drank
her tea, referred to her husband and remembered her mission. Her mission had quite taken form--it
was but another name for the interest of her great opportunity--that of representing the arts
and the graces to a people languishing, afar off, in ignorance. Maggie had sufficiently intimated
to the Prince, ten minutes before, that she needed no showing as to what their friend wouldn't
consent to be taken for; but the difficulty now indeed was to choose, for explicit tribute
of admiration, between the varieties of her nobler aspects. She carried it off, to put the
matter coarsely, with a taste and a discretion that held our young woman's attention, for the
first quarter-of-an-hour, to the very point of diverting it from the attitude of her overshadowed,
her almost superseded companion. But Adam Verver profited indeed at this time, even with his
daughter, by his so marked peculiarity of seeming on no occasion to have an attitude; and so
long as they were in the room together she felt him still simply weave his web and play out
his long fine cord, knew herself in presence of this tacit process very much as she had known
herself at Fawns. He had a way, the dear man, wherever he was, of moving about the room, noiselessly,
to see what it might contain; and his manner of now resorting to this habit, acquainted as
he already was with the objects in view, expressed with a certain sharpness the intention of
leaving his wife to her devices. It did even more than this; it signified, to the apprehension
of the Princess, from the moment she more directly took thought of him, almost a special view
of these devices, as actually exhibited in their rarity, together with an independent, a settled
appreciation of their general handsome adequacy, which scarcely required the accompaniment
of his faint contemplative hum.

Charlotte throned, as who should say, between her hostess and her host, the whole scene having
crystallised, as soon as she took her place, to the right quiet lustre; the harmony was not
less sustained for being superficial, and the only approach to a break in it was while Amerigo
remained standing long enough for his father-in-law, vaguely wondering, to appeal to him, invite
or address him, and then, in default of any such word, selected for presentation to the other
visitor a plate of petits fours. Maggie watched her husband--if it now could be called watching--offer
this refreshment; she noted the consummate way--for "consummate" was the term she privately
applied--in which Charlotte cleared her acceptance, cleared her impersonal smile, of any betrayal,
any slightest value, of consciousness; and then felt the slow surge of a vision that, at the
end of another minute or two, had floated her across the room to where her father stood looking
at a picture, an early Florentine sacred subject, that he had given her on her marriage. He
might have been, in silence, taking his last leave of it; it was a work for which he entertained,
she knew, an unqualified esteem. The tenderness represented for her by his sacrifice of such
a treasure had become, to her sense, a part of the whole infusion, of the immortal expression;
the beauty of his sentiment looked out at her, always, from the beauty of the rest, as if the
frame made positively a window for his spiritual face: she might have said to herself, at this
moment, that in leaving the thing behind him, held as in her clasping arms, he was doing the
most possible toward leaving her a part of his palpable self. She put her hand over his shoulder,
and their eyes were held again, together, by the abiding felicity; they smiled in emulation,
vaguely, as if speech failed them through their having passed too far; she would have begun
to wonder the next minute if it were reserved to them, for the last stage, to find their contact,
like that of old friends reunited too much on the theory of the unchanged, subject to shy lapses.

"It's all right, eh?"

"Oh, my dear--rather!"

He had applied the question to the great fact of the picture, as she had spoken for the picture
in reply, but it was as if their words for an instant afterwards symbolised another truth,
so that they looked about at everything else to give them this extension. She had passed her
arm into his, and the other objects in the room, the other pictures, the sofas, the chairs,
the tables, the cabinets, the "important" pieces, supreme in their way, stood out, round them,
consciously, for recognition and applause. Their eyes moved together from piece to piece, taking
in the whole nobleness--quite as if for him to measure the wisdom of old ideas. The two noble
persons seated, in conversation, at tea, fell thus into the splendid effect and the general
harmony: Mrs. Verver and the Prince fairly "placed" themselves, however unwittingly, as high
expressions of the kind of human furniture required, esthetically, by such a scene. The fusion
of their presence with the decorative elements, their contribution to the triumph of selection,
was complete and admirable; though, to a lingering view, a view more penetrating than the occasion
really demanded, they also might have figured as concrete attestations of a rare power of purchase.
There was much indeed in the tone in which Adam Verver spoke again, and who shall say where
his thought stopped? "Le compte y est. You've got some good things."

Maggie met it afresh--"Ah, don't they look well?" Their companions, at the sound of this, gave
them, in a spacious intermission of slow talk, an attention, all of gravity, that was like
an ampler submission to the general duty of magnificence; sitting as still, to be thus appraised,
as a pair of effigies of the contemporary great on one of the platforms of Madame Tussaud.
"I'm so glad--for your last look."

With which, after Maggie--quite in the air--had said it, the note was struck indeed; the note
of that strange accepted finality of relation, as from couple to couple, which almost escaped
an awkwardness only by not attempting a gloss. Yes, this was the wonder, that the occasion
defied insistence precisely because of the vast quantities with which it dealt--so that separation
was on a scale beyond any compass of parting. To do such an hour justice would have been in
some degree to question its grounds-- which was why they remained, in fine, the four of them,
in the upper air, united in the firmest abstention from pressure. There was no point, visibly,
at which, face to face, either Amerigo or Charlotte had pressed; and how little she herself
was in danger of doing so Maggie scarce needed to remember. That her father wouldn't, by the
tip of a toe--of that she was equally conscious: the only thing was that, since he didn't,
she could but hold her breath for what he would do instead. When, at the end of three minutes
more, he had said, with an effect of suddenness, "Well, Mag--and the Principino?" it was quite
as if that were, by contrast, the hard, the truer voice.

She glanced at the clock. "I 'ordered' him for half-past five-- which hasn't yet struck. Trust
him, my dear, not to fail you!"

"Oh, I don't want HIM to fail me!" was Mr. Verver's reply; yet uttered in so explicitly jocose
a relation to the possibilities of failure that even when, just afterwards, he wandered in
his impatience to one of the long windows and passed out to the balcony, she asked herself
but for a few seconds if reality, should she follow him, would overtake or meet her there.
She followed him of necessity--it came, absolutely, so near to his inviting her, by stepping
off into temporary detachment, to give the others something of the chance that she and her
husband had so fantastically discussed. Beside him then, while they hung over the great dull
place, clear and almost coloured now, coloured with the odd, sad, pictured, "old-fashioned"
look that empty London streets take on in waning afternoons of the summer's end, she felt once
more how impossible such a passage would have been to them, how it would have torn them to
pieces, if they had so much as suffered its suppressed relations to peep out of their eyes.
This danger would doubtless indeed have been more to be reckoned with if the instinct of each--she
could certainly at least answer for her own--had not so successfully acted to trump up other
apparent connexions for it, connexions as to which they could pretend to be frank.

"You mustn't stay on here, you know," Adam Verver said as a result of his unobstructed outlook.
"Fawns is all there for you, of course--to the end of my tenure. But Fawns so dismantled,"
he added with mild ruefulness, "Fawns with half its contents, and half its best things, removed,
won't seem to you, I'm afraid, particularly lively."

"No," Maggie answered, "we should miss its best things. Its best things, my dear, have certainly
been removed. To be back there," she went on, "to be back there--!" And she paused for the
force of her idea.

"Oh, to be back there without anything good--!" But she didn't hesitate now; she brought her
idea forth. "To be back there without Charlotte is more than I think would do." And as she
smiled at him with it, so she saw him the next instant take it-- take it in a way that helped
her smile to pass all for an allusion to what she didn't and couldn't say. This quantity was
too clear--that she couldn't at such an hour be pretending to name to him what it was, as he
would have said, "going to be," at Fawns or anywhere else, to want for HIM. That was now--and
in a manner exaltedly, sublimely--out of their compass and their question; so that what was
she doing, while they waited for the Principino, while they left the others together and their
tension just sensibly threatened, what was she doing but just offer a bold but substantial
substitute? Nothing was stranger moreover, under the action of Charlotte's presence, than the
fact of a felt sincerity in her words. She felt her sincerity absolutely sound-- she gave it
for all it might mean. "Because Charlotte, dear, you know," she said, "is incomparable." It
took thirty seconds, but she was to know when these were over that she had pronounced one of
the happiest words of her life. They had turned from the view of the street; they leaned together
against the balcony rail, with the room largely in sight from where they stood, but with the
Prince and Mrs. Verver out of range. Nothing he could try, she immediately saw, was to keep
his eyes from lighting; not even his taking out his cigarette-case and saying before he said
anything else: "May I smoke?" She met it, for encouragement, with her "My dear!" again, and
then, while he struck his match, she had just another minute to be nervous--a minute that she
made use of, however, not in the least to falter, but to reiterate with a high ring, a ring
that might, for all she cared, reach the pair inside: "Father, father--Charlotte's great!"

It was not till after he had begun to smoke that he looked at her. "Charlotte's great."

They could close upon it--such a basis as they might immediately feel it make; and so they
stood together over it, quite gratefully, each recording to the other's eyes that it was firm
under their feet. They had even thus a renewed wait, as for proof of it; much as if he were
letting her see, while the minutes lapsed for their concealed companions, that this was finally
just why--but just WHY! "You see," he presently added, "how right I was. Right, I mean, to
do it for you."

"Ah, rather!" she murmured with her smile. And then, as to be herself ideally right: "I don't
see what you would have done without her."

"The point was," he returned quietly, "that I didn't see what you were to do. Yet it was a risk."

"It was a risk," said Maggie--"but I believed in it. At least for myself!" she smiled.

"Well NOW," he smoked, "we see."

"We see."

"I know her better."

"You know her best."

"Oh, but naturally!" On which, as the warranted truth of it hung in the air--the truth warranted,
as who should say, exactly by the present opportunity to pronounce, this opportunity created
and accepted--she found herself lost, though with a finer thrill than she had perhaps yet known,
in the vision of all he might mean. The sense of it in her rose higher, rose with each moment
that he invited her thus to see him linger; and when, after a little more, he had said, smoking
again and looking up, with head thrown back and hands spread on the balcony rail, at the grey,
gaunt front of the house, "She's beautiful, beautiful!" her sensibility reported to her the
shade of a new note. It was all she might have wished, for it was, with a kind of speaking
competence, the note of possession and control; and yet it conveyed to her as nothing till
now had done the reality of their parting. They were parting, in the light of it, absolutely
on Charlotte's VALUE--the value that was filling the room out of which they had stepped as
if to give it play, and with which the Prince, on his side, was perhaps making larger acquaintance.
If Maggie had desired, at so late an hour, some last conclusive comfortable category to place
him in for dismissal, she might have found it here in its all coming back to his ability to
rest upon high values. Somehow, when all was said, and with the memory of her gifts, her variety,
her power, so much remained of Charlotte's! What else had she herself meant three minutes before
by speaking of her as great? Great for the world that was before her--that he proposed she
should be: she was not to be wasted in the application of his plan. Maggie held to this then--that
she wasn't to be wasted. To let his daughter know it he had sought this brief privacy. What
a blessing, accordingly, that she could speak her joy in it! His face, meanwhile, at all events,
was turned to her, and as she met his eyes again her joy went straight. "It's success, father."

"It's success. And even this," he added as the Principino, appearing alone, deep within, piped
across an instant greeting-- "even this isn't altogether failure!"

They went in to receive the boy, upon whose introduction to the room by Miss Bogle Charlotte
and the Prince got up--seemingly with an impressiveness that had caused Miss Bogle not to give
further effect to her own entrance. She had retired, but the Principino's presence, by itself,
sufficiently broke the tension--the subsidence of which, in the great room, ten minutes later,
gave to the air something of the quality produced by the cessation of a sustained rattle. Stillness,
when the Prince and Princess returned from attending the visitors to their carriage, might
have been said to be not so much restored as created; so that whatever next took place in it
was foredoomed to remarkable salience. That would have been the case even with so natural,
though so futile, a movement as Maggie's going out to the balcony again to follow with her
eyes her father's departure. The carriage was out of sight--it had taken her too long solemnly
to reascend, and she looked awhile only at the great grey space, on which, as on the room still
more, the shadow of dusk had fallen. Here, at first, her husband had not rejoined her; he had
come up with the boy, who, clutching his hand, abounded, as usual, in remarks worthy of the
family archives; but the two appeared then to have proceeded to report to Miss Bogle. It meant
something for the Princess that her husband had thus got their son out of the way, not bringing
him back to his mother; but everything now, as she vaguely moved about, struck her as meaning
so much that the unheard chorus swelled. Yet THIS above all--her just being there as she was
and waiting for him to come in, their freedom to be together there always--was the meaning
most disengaged: she stood in the cool twilight and took in, all about her, where it lurked,
her reason for what she had done. She knew at last really why-- and how she had been inspired
and guided, how she had been persistently able, how, to her soul, all the while, it had been
for the sake of this end. Here it was, then, the moment, the golden fruit that had shone from
afar; only, what were these things, in the fact, for the hand and for the lips, when tested,
when tasted--what were they as a reward? Closer than she had ever been to the measure of her
course and the full face of her act, she had an instant of the terror that, when there has
been suspense, always precedes, on the part of the creature to be paid, the certification of
the amount. Amerigo knew it, the amount; he still held it, and the delay in his return, making
her heart beat too fast to go on, was like a sudden blinding light on a wild speculation. She
had thrown the dice, but his hand was over her cast.

He opened the door, however, at last--he hadn't been away ten minutes; and then, with her sight
of him renewed to intensity, she seemed to have a view of the number. His presence alone, as
he paused to look at her, somehow made it the highest, and even before he had spoken she had
begun to be paid in full. With that consciousness, in fact, an extraordinary thing occurred;
the assurance of her safety so making her terror drop that already, within the minute, it had
been changed to concern for his own anxiety, for everything that was deep in his being and
everything that was fair in his face. So far as seeing that she was "paid" went, he might have
been holding out the money-bag for her to come and take it. But what instantly rose, for her,
between the act and her acceptance was the sense that she must strike him as waiting for a
confession. This, in turn, charged her with a new horror: if that was her proper payment she
would go without money. His acknowledgment hung there, too monstrously, at the expense of Charlotte,
before whose mastery of the greater style she had just been standing dazzled. All she now knew,
accordingly, was that she should be ashamed to listen to the uttered word; all, that is, but
that she might dispose of it on the spot forever.

"Isn't she too splendid?" she simply said, offering it to explain and to finish.

"Oh, splendid!" With which he came over to her.

"That's our help, you see," she added--to point further her moral.

It kept him before her therefore, taking in--or trying to--what she so wonderfully gave. He
tried, too clearly, to please her--to meet her in her own way; but with the result only that,
close to her, her face kept before him, his hands holding her shoulders, his whole act enclosing
her, he presently echoed: "'See'? I see nothing but you." And the truth of it had, with this
force, after a moment, so strangely lighted his eyes that, as for pity and dread of them, she
buried her own in his breast.

