"I thanked him with tears of commiseration; and instead of taking me to Italy he conducted
me to Algiers, where he sold me to the Dey. Scarcely was I sold, than the plague which had
made the tour of Africa, Asia, and Europe, broke out with great malignancy in Algiers. You
have seen earthquakes; but pray, miss, have you ever had the plague?"

"Never," answered Cunegonde.

"If you had," said the old woman, "you would acknowledge that it is far more terrible than
an earthquake. It is common in Africa, and I caught it. Imagine to yourself the distressed
situation of the daughter of a Pope, only fifteen years old, who, in less than three months,
had felt the miseries of poverty and slavery, had been ravished almost every day, had beheld
her mother drawn in quarters, had experienced famine and war, and was dying of the plague in
Algiers. I did not die, however, but my eunuch, and the Dey, and almost the whole seraglio
of Algiers perished.

"As soon as the first fury of this terrible pestilence was over, a sale was made of the Dey's
slaves; I was purchased by a merchant, and carried to Tunis; this man sold me to another merchant,
who sold me again to another at Tripoli; from Tripoli I was sold to Alexandria, from Alexandria
to Smyrna, and from Smyrna to Constantinople. At length I became the property of an Aga of
the Janissaries, who was soon ordered away to the defence of Azof, then besieged by the Russians.

"The Aga, who was a very gallant man, took his whole seraglio with him, and lodged us in a
small fort on the Palus Méotides, guarded by two black eunuchs and twenty soldiers. The Turks
killed prodigious numbers of the Russians, but the latter had their revenge. Azof was destroyed
by fire, the inhabitants put to the sword, neither sex nor age was spared; until there remained
only our little fort, and the enemy wanted to starve us out. The twenty Janissaries had sworn
they would never surrender. The extremities of famine to which they were reduced, obliged them
to eat our two eunuchs, for fear of violating their oath. And at the end of a few days they
resolved also to devour the women.

"We had a very pious and humane Iman, who preached an excellent sermon, exhorting them not
to kill us all at once.

"'Only cut off a buttock of each of those ladies,' said he, 'and you'll fare extremely well;
if you must go to it again, there will be the same entertainment a few days hence; heaven will
accept of so charitable an action, and send you relief.'

"He had great eloquence; he persuaded them; we underwent this terrible operation. The Iman
applied the same balsam to us, as he does to children after circumcision; and we all nearly died.

"Scarcely had the Janissaries finished the repast with which we had furnished them, than the
Russians came in flat-bottomed boats; not a Janissary escaped. The Russians paid no attention
to the condition we were in. There are French surgeons in all parts of the world; one of them
who was very clever took us under his care--he cured us; and as long as I live I shall remember
that as soon as my wounds were healed he made proposals to me. He bid us all be of good cheer,
telling us that the like had happened in many sieges, and that it was according to the laws of war.

"As soon as my companions could walk, they were obliged to set out for Moscow. I fell to the
share of a Boyard who made me his gardener, and gave me twenty lashes a day. But this nobleman
having in two years' time been broke upon the wheel along with thirty more Boyards for some
broils at court, I profited by that event; I fled. I traversed all Russia; I was a long time
an inn-holder's servant at Riga, the same at Rostock, at Vismar, at Leipzig, at Cassel, at
Utrecht, at Leyden, at the Hague, at Rotterdam. I waxed old in misery and disgrace, having
only one-half of my posteriors, and always remembering I was a Pope's daughter. A hundred times
I was upon the point of killing myself; but still I loved life. This ridiculous foible is perhaps
one of our most fatal characteristics; for is there anything more absurd than to wish to carry
continually a burden which one can always throw down? to detest existence and yet to cling
to one's existence? in brief, to caress the serpent which devours us, till he has eaten our
very heart?

"In the different countries which it has been my lot to traverse, and the numerous inns where
I have been servant, I have taken notice of a vast number of people who held their own existence
in abhorrence, and yet I never knew of more than eight who voluntarily put an end to their
misery; three negroes, four Englishmen, and a German professor named Robek.[14] I ended by
being servant to the Jew, Don Issachar, who placed me near your presence, my fair lady. I am
determined to share your fate, and have been much more affected with your misfortunes than
with my own. I would never even have spoken to you of my misfortunes, had you not piqued me
a little, and if it were not customary to tell stories on board a ship in order to pass away
the time. In short, Miss Cunegonde, I have had experience, I know the world; therefore I advise
you to divert yourself, and prevail upon each passenger to tell his story; and if there be
one of them all, that has not cursed his life many a time, that has not frequently looked upon
himself as the unhappiest of mortals, I give you leave to throw me headforemost into the sea."

XIII

HOW CANDIDE WAS FORCED AWAY FROM HIS FAIR CUNEGONDE AND THE OLD WOMAN.

The beautiful Cunegonde having heard the old woman's history, paid her all the civilities due
to a person of her rank and merit. She likewise accepted her proposal, and engaged all the
passengers, one after the other, to relate their adventures; and then both she and Candide
allowed that the old woman was in the right.

"It is a great pity," said Candide, "that the sage Pangloss was hanged contrary to custom at
an auto-da-fé; he would tell us most amazing things in regard to the physical and moral evils
that overspread earth and sea, and I should be able, with due respect, to make a few objections."

While each passenger was recounting his story, the ship made her way. They landed at Buenos
Ayres. Cunegonde, Captain Candide, and the old woman, waited on the Governor, Don Fernando
d'Ibaraa, y Figueora, y Mascarenes, y Lampourdos, y Souza. This nobleman had a stateliness
becoming a person who bore so many names. He spoke to men with so noble a disdain, carried
his nose so loftily, raised his voice so unmercifully, assumed so imperious an air, and stalked
with such intolerable pride, that those who saluted him were strongly inclined to give him
a good drubbing. Cunegonde appeared to him the most beautiful he had ever met. The first thing
he did was to ask whether she was not the captain's wife. The manner in which he asked the
question alarmed Candide; he durst not say she was his wife, because indeed she was not; neither
durst he say she was his sister, because it was not so; and although this obliging lie had
been formerly much in favour among the ancients, and although it could be useful to the moderns,
his soul was too pure to betray the truth.

"Miss Cunegonde," said he, "is to do me the honour to marry me, and we beseech your excellency
to deign to sanction our marriage."

Don Fernando d'Ibaraa, y Figueora, y Mascarenes, y Lampourdos, y Souza, turning up his moustachios,
smiled mockingly, and ordered Captain Candide to go and review his company. Candide obeyed,
and the Governor remained alone with Miss Cunegonde. He declared his passion, protesting he
would marry her the next day in the face of the church, or otherwise, just as should be agreeable
to herself. Cunegonde asked a quarter of an hour to consider of it, to consult the old woman,
and to take her resolution.

The old woman spoke thus to Cunegonde:

"Miss, you have seventy-two quarterings, and not a farthing; it is now in your power to be
wife to the greatest lord in South America, who has very beautiful moustachios. Is it for you
to pique yourself upon inviolable fidelity? You have been ravished by Bulgarians; a Jew and
an Inquisitor have enjoyed your favours. Misfortune gives sufficient excuse. I own, that if
I were in your place, I should have no scruple in marrying the Governor and in making the fortune
of Captain Candide."

While the old woman spoke with all the prudence which age and experience gave, a small ship
entered the port on board of which were an Alcalde and his alguazils, and this was what had
happened.

As the old woman had shrewdly guessed, it was a Grey Friar who stole Cunegonde's money and
jewels in the town of Badajos, when she and Candide were escaping. The Friar wanted to sell
some of the diamonds to a jeweller; the jeweller knew them to be the Grand Inquisitor's. The
Friar before he was hanged confessed he had stolen them. He described the persons, and the
route they had taken. The flight of Cunegonde and Candide was already known. They were traced
to Cadiz. A vessel was immediately sent in pursuit of them. The vessel was already in the port
of Buenos Ayres. The report spread that the Alcalde was going to land, and that he was in pursuit
of the murderers of my lord the Grand Inquisitor. The prudent old woman saw at once what was
to be done.

"You cannot run away," said she to Cunegonde, "and you have nothing to fear, for it was not
you that killed my lord; besides the Governor who loves you will not suffer you to be ill-treated;
therefore stay."

She then ran immediately to Candide.

"Fly," said she, "or in an hour you will be burnt."

There was not a moment to lose; but how could he part from Cunegonde, and where could he flee
for shelter?

XIV

HOW CANDIDE AND CACAMBO WERE RECEIVED BY THE JESUITS OF PARAGUAY.

Candide had brought such a valet with him from Cadiz, as one often meets with on the coasts
of Spain and in the American colonies. He was a quarter Spaniard, born of a mongrel in Tucuman;
he had been singing-boy, sacristan, sailor, monk, pedlar, soldier, and lackey. His name was
Cacambo, and he loved his master, because his master was a very good man. He quickly saddled
the two Andalusian horses.

"Come, master, let us follow the old woman's advice; let us start, and run without looking
behind us."

Candide shed tears.

"Oh! my dear Cunegonde! must I leave you just at a time when the Governor was going to sanction
our nuptials? Cunegonde, brought to such a distance what will become of you?"

"She will do as well as she can," said Cacambo; "the women are never at a loss, God provides
for them, let us run."

"Whither art thou carrying me? Where shall we go? What shall we do without Cunegonde?" said
Candide.

"By St. James of Compostella," said Cacambo, "you were going to fight against the Jesuits;
let us go to fight for them; I know the road well, I'll conduct you to their kingdom, where
they will be charmed to have a captain that understands the Bulgarian exercise. You'll make
a prodigious fortune; if we cannot find our account in one world we shall in another. It is
a great pleasure to see and do new things."

"You have before been in Paraguay, then?" said Candide.

"Ay, sure," answered Cacambo, "I was servant in the College of the Assumption, and am acquainted
with the government of the good Fathers as well as I am with the streets of Cadiz. It is an
admirable government. The kingdom is upwards of three hundred leagues in diameter, and divided
into thirty provinces; there the Fathers possess all, and the people nothing; it is a masterpiece
of reason and justice. For my part I see nothing so divine as the Fathers who here make war
upon the kings of Spain and Portugal, and in Europe confess those kings; who here kill Spaniards,
and in Madrid send them to heaven; this delights me, let us push forward. You are going to
be the happiest of mortals. What pleasure will it be to those Fathers to hear that a captain
who knows the Bulgarian exercise has come to them!"

As soon as they reached the first barrier, Cacambo told the advanced guard that a captain wanted
to speak with my lord the Commandant. Notice was given to the main guard, and immediately a
Paraguayan officer ran and laid himself at the feet of the Commandant, to impart this news
to him. Candide and Cacambo were disarmed, and their two Andalusian horses seized. The strangers
were introduced between two files of musketeers; the Commandant was at the further end, with
the three-cornered cap on his head, his gown tucked up, a sword by his side, and a spontoon[15]
in his hand. He beckoned, and straightway the new-comers were encompassed by four-and-twenty
soldiers. A sergeant told them they must wait, that the Commandant could not speak to them,
and that the reverend Father Provincial does not suffer any Spaniard to open his mouth but
in his presence, or to stay above three hours in the province.

"And where is the reverend Father Provincial?" said Cacambo.

"He is upon the parade just after celebrating mass," answered the sergeant, "and you cannot
kiss his spurs till three hours hence."

"However," said Cacambo, "the captain is not a Spaniard, but a German, he is ready to perish
with hunger as well as myself; cannot we have something for breakfast, while we wait for his
reverence?"

The sergeant went immediately to acquaint the Commandant with what he had heard.

"God be praised!" said the reverend Commandant, "since he is a German, I may speak to him;
take him to my arbour."

Candide was at once conducted to a beautiful summer-house, ornamented with a very pretty colonnade
of green and gold marble, and with trellises, enclosing parraquets, humming-birds, fly-birds,
guinea-hens, and all other rare birds. An excellent breakfast was provided in vessels of gold;
and while the Paraguayans were eating maize out of wooden dishes, in the open fields and exposed
to the heat of the sun, the reverend Father Commandant retired to his arbour.

He was a very handsome young man, with a full face, white skin but high in colour; he had an
arched eyebrow, a lively eye, red ears, vermilion lips, a bold air, but such a boldness as
neither belonged to a Spaniard nor a Jesuit. They returned their arms to Candide and Cacambo,
and also the two Andalusian horses; to whom Cacambo gave some oats to eat just by the arbour,
having an eye upon them all the while for fear of a surprise.

Candide first kissed the hem of the Commandant's robe, then they sat down to table.

"You are, then, a German?" said the Jesuit to him in that language.

"Yes, reverend Father," answered Candide.

As they pronounced these words they looked at each other with great amazement, and with such
an emotion as they could not conceal.

"And from what part of Germany do you come?" said the Jesuit.

"I am from the dirty province of Westphalia," answered Candide; "I was born in the Castle of
Thunder-ten-Tronckh."

"Oh! Heavens! is it possible?" cried the Commandant.

"What a miracle!" cried Candide.

"Is it really you?" said the Commandant.

"It is not possible!" said Candide.

They drew back; they embraced; they shed rivulets of tears.

"What, is it you, reverend Father? You, the brother of the fair Cunegonde! You, that was slain
by the Bulgarians! You, the Baron's son! You, a Jesuit in Paraguay! I must confess this is
a strange world that we live in. Oh, Pangloss! Pangloss! how glad you would be if you had not
been hanged!"

The Commandant sent away the negro slaves and the Paraguayans, who served them with liquors
in goblets of rock-crystal. He thanked God and St. Ignatius a thousand times; he clasped Candide
in his arms; and their faces were all bathed with tears.

"You will be more surprised, more affected, and transported," said Candide, "when I tell you
that Cunegonde, your sister, whom you believe to have been ripped open, is in perfect health."

"Where?"

"In your neighbourhood, with the Governor of Buenos Ayres; and I was going to fight against you."

Every word which they uttered in this long conversation but added wonder to wonder. Their souls
fluttered on their tongues, listened in their ears, and sparkled in their eyes. As they were
Germans, they sat a good while at table, waiting for the reverend Father Provincial, and the
Commandant spoke to his dear Candide as follows.

XV

HOW CANDIDE KILLED THE BROTHER OF HIS DEAR CUNEGONDE.

"I shall have ever present to my memory the dreadful day, on which I saw my father and mother
killed, and my sister ravished. When the Bulgarians retired, my dear sister could not be found;
but my mother, my father, and myself, with two maid-servants and three little boys all of whom
had been slain, were put in a hearse, to be conveyed for interment to a chapel belonging to
the Jesuits, within two leagues of our family seat. A Jesuit sprinkled us with some holy water;
it was horribly salt; a few drops of it fell into my eyes; the father perceived that my eyelids
stirred a little; he put his hand upon my heart and felt it beat. I received assistance, and
at the end of three weeks I recovered. You know, my dear Candide, I was very pretty; but I
grew much prettier, and the reverend Father Didrie,[16] Superior of that House, conceived the
tenderest friendship for me; he gave me the habit of the order, some years after I was sent
to Rome. The Father-General needed new levies of young German-Jesuits. The sovereigns of Paraguay
admit as few Spanish Jesuits as possible; they prefer those of other nations as being more
subordinate to their commands. I was judged fit by the reverend Father-General to go and work
in this vineyard. We set out--a Pole, a Tyrolese, and myself. Upon my arrival I was honoured
with a sub-deaconship and a lieutenancy. I am to-day colonel and priest. We shall give a warm
reception to the King of Spain's troops; I will answer for it that they shall be excommunicated
and well beaten. Providence sends you here to assist us. But is it, indeed, true that my dear
sister Cunegonde is in the neighbourhood, with the Governor of Buenos Ayres?"

Candide assured him on oath that nothing was more true, and their tears began afresh.

The Baron could not refrain from embracing Candide; he called him his brother, his saviour.

"Ah! perhaps," said he, "we shall together, my dear Candide, enter the town as conquerors,
and recover my sister Cunegonde."

"That is all I want," said Candide, "for I intended to marry her, and I still hope to do so."

"You insolent!" replied the Baron, "would you have the impudence to marry my sister who has
seventy-two quarterings! I find thou hast the most consummate effrontery to dare to mention
so presumptuous a design!"

Candide, petrified at this speech, made answer:

"Reverend Father, all the quarterings in the world signify nothing; I rescued your sister from
the arms of a Jew and of an Inquisitor; she has great obligations to me, she wishes to marry
me; Master Pangloss always told me that all men are equal, and certainly I will marry her."

"We shall see that, thou scoundrel!" said the Jesuit Baron de Thunder-ten-Tronckh, and that
instant struck him across the face with the flat of his sword. Candide in an instant drew his
rapier, and plunged it up to the hilt in the Jesuit's belly; but in pulling it out reeking
hot, he burst into tears.

"Good God!" said he, "I have killed my old master, my friend, my brother-in-law! I am the best-natured
creature in the world, and yet I have already killed three men, and of these three two were
priests."

Cacambo, who stood sentry by the door of the arbour, ran to him.

"We have nothing more for it than to sell our lives as dearly as we can," said his master to
him, "without doubt some one will soon enter the arbour, and we must die sword in hand."

Cacambo, who had been in a great many scrapes in his lifetime, did not lose his head; he took
the Baron's Jesuit habit, put it on Candide, gave him the square cap, and made him mount on
horseback. All this was done in the twinkling of an eye.

"Let us gallop fast, master, everybody will take you for a Jesuit, going to give directions
to your men, and we shall have passed the frontiers before they will be able to overtake us."

He flew as he spoke these words, crying out aloud in Spanish:

"Make way, make way, for the reverend Father Colonel."

Candide and his valet had got beyond the barrier, before it was known in the camp that the
German Jesuit was dead. The wary Cacambo had taken care to fill his wallet with bread, chocolate,
bacon, fruit, and a few bottles of wine. With their Andalusian horses they penetrated into
an unknown country, where they perceived no beaten track. At length they came to a beautiful
meadow intersected with purling rills. Here our two adventurers fed their horses. Cacambo proposed
to his master to take some food, and he set him an example.

"How can you ask me to eat ham," said Candide, "after killing the Baron's son, and being doomed
never more to see the beautiful Cunegonde? What will it avail me to spin out my wretched days
and drag them far from her in remorse and despair? And what will the Journal of Trevoux[17] say?"

While he was thus lamenting his fate, he went on eating. The sun went down. The two wanderers
heard some little cries which seemed to be uttered by women. They did not know whether they
were cries of pain or joy; but they started up precipitately with that inquietude and alarm
which every little thing inspires in an unknown country. The noise was made by two naked girls,
who tripped along the mead, while two monkeys were pursuing them and biting their buttocks.
Candide was moved with pity; he had learned to fire a gun in the Bulgarian service, and he
was so clever at it, that he could hit a filbert in a hedge without touching a leaf of the
tree. He took up his double-barrelled Spanish fusil, let it off, and killed the two monkeys.

"God be praised! My dear Cacambo, I have rescued those two poor creatures from a most perilous
situation. If I have committed a sin in killing an Inquisitor and a Jesuit, I have made ample
amends by saving the lives of these girls. Perhaps they are young ladies of family; and this
adventure may procure us great advantages in this country."

He was continuing, but stopped short when he saw the two girls tenderly embracing the monkeys,
bathing their bodies in tears, and rending the air with the most dismal lamentations.

"Little did I expect to see such good-nature," said he at length to Cacambo; who made answer:

"Master, you have done a fine thing now; you have slain the sweethearts of those two young ladies."

"The sweethearts! Is it possible? You are jesting, Cacambo, I can never believe it!"

"Dear master," replied Cacambo; "you are surprised at everything. Why should you think it so
strange that in some countries there are monkeys which insinuate themselves into the good graces
of the ladies; they are a fourth part human, as I am a fourth part Spaniard."

"Alas!" replied Candide, "I remember to have heard Master Pangloss say, that formerly such
accidents used to happen; that these mixtures were productive of Centaurs, Fauns, and Satyrs;
and that many of the ancients had seen such monsters, but I looked upon the whole as fabulous."

"You ought now to be convinced," said Cacambo, "that it is the truth, and you see what use
is made of those creatures, by persons that have not had a proper education; all I fear is
that those ladies will play us some ugly trick."

These sound reflections induced Candide to leave the meadow and to plunge into a wood. He supped
there with Cacambo; and after cursing the Portuguese inquisitor, the Governor of Buenos Ayres,
and the Baron, they fell asleep on moss. On awaking they felt that they could not move; for
during the night the Oreillons, who inhabited that country, and to whom the ladies had denounced
them, had bound them with cords made of the bark of trees. They were encompassed by fifty naked
Oreillons, armed with bows and arrows, with clubs and flint hatchets. Some were making a large
cauldron boil, others were preparing spits, and all cried:

"A Jesuit! a Jesuit! we shall be revenged, we shall have excellent cheer, let us eat the Jesuit,
let us eat him up!"

"I told you, my dear master," cried Cacambo sadly, "that those two girls would play us some
ugly trick."

Candide seeing the cauldron and the spits, cried:

"We are certainly going to be either roasted or boiled. Ah! what would Master Pangloss say,
were he to see how pure nature is formed? Everything is right, may be, but I declare it is
very hard to have lost Miss Cunegonde and to be put upon a spit by Oreillons."

Cacambo never lost his head.

"Do not despair," said he to the disconsolate Candide, "I understand a little of the jargon
of these people, I will speak to them."

"Be sure," said Candide, "to represent to them how frightfully inhuman it is to cook men, and
how very un-Christian."

"Gentlemen," said Cacambo, "you reckon you are to-day going to feast upon a Jesuit. It is all
very well, nothing is more unjust than thus to treat your enemies. Indeed, the law of nature
teaches us to kill our neighbour, and such is the practice all over the world. If we do not
accustom ourselves to eating them, it is because we have better fare. But you have not the
same resources as we; certainly it is much better to devour your enemies than to resign to
the crows and rooks the fruits of your victory. But, gentlemen, surely you would not choose
to eat your friends. You believe that you are going to spit a Jesuit, and he is your defender.
It is the enemy of your enemies that you are going to roast. As for myself, I was born in your
country; this gentleman is my master, and, far from being a Jesuit, he has just killed one,
whose spoils he wears; and thence comes your mistake. To convince you of the truth of what
I say, take his habit and carry it to the first barrier of the Jesuit kingdom, and inform yourselves
whether my master did not kill a Jesuit officer. It will not take you long, and you can always
eat us if you find that I have lied to you. But I have told you the truth. You are too well
acquainted with the principles of public law, humanity, and justice not to pardon us."

The Oreillons found this speech very reasonable. They deputed two of their principal people
with all expedition to inquire into the truth of the matter; these executed their commission
like men of sense, and soon returned with good news. The Oreillons untied their prisoners,
showed them all sorts of civilities, offered them girls, gave them refreshment, and reconducted
them to the confines of their territories, proclaiming with great joy:

"He is no Jesuit! He is no Jesuit!"

Candide could not help being surprised at the cause of his deliverance.

"What people!" said he; "what men! what manners! If I had not been so lucky as to run Miss
Cunegonde's brother through the body, I should have been devoured without redemption. But,
after all, pure nature is good, since these people, instead of feasting upon my flesh, have
shown me a thousand civilities, when then I was not a Jesuit."

XVII

ARRIVAL OF CANDIDE AND HIS VALET AT EL DORADO, AND WHAT THEY SAW THERE.

"You see," said Cacambo to Candide, as soon as they had reached the frontiers of the Oreillons,
"that this hemisphere is not better than the others, take my word for it; let us go back to
Europe by the shortest way."

"How go back?" said Candide, "and where shall we go? to my own country? The Bulgarians and
the Abares are slaying all; to Portugal? there I shall be burnt; and if we abide here we are
every moment in danger of being spitted. But how can I resolve to quit a part of the world
where my dear Cunegonde resides?"

"Let us turn towards Cayenne," said Cacambo, "there we shall find Frenchmen, who wander all
over the world; they may assist us; God will perhaps have pity on us."

It was not easy to get to Cayenne; they knew vaguely in which direction to go, but rivers,
precipices, robbers, savages, obstructed them all the way. Their horses died of fatigue. Their
provisions were consumed; they fed a whole month upon wild fruits, and found themselves at
last near a little river bordered with cocoa trees, which sustained their lives and their hopes.

Cacambo, who was as good a counsellor as the old woman, said to Candide:

"We are able to hold out no longer; we have walked enough. I see an empty canoe near the river-side;
let us fill it with cocoanuts, throw ourselves into it, and go with the current; a river always
leads to some inhabited spot. If we do not find pleasant things we shall at least find new things."

"With all my heart," said Candide, "let us recommend ourselves to Providence."

They rowed a few leagues, between banks, in some places flowery, in others barren; in some
parts smooth, in others rugged. The stream ever widened, and at length lost itself under an
arch of frightful rocks which reached to the sky. The two travellers had the courage to commit
themselves to the current. The river, suddenly contracting at this place, whirled them along
with a dreadful noise and rapidity. At the end of four-and-twenty hours they saw daylight again,
but their canoe was dashed to pieces against the rocks. For a league they had to creep from
rock to rock, until at length they discovered an extensive plain, bounded by inaccessible mountains.
The country was cultivated as much for pleasure as for necessity. On all sides the useful was
also the beautiful. The roads were covered, or rather adorned, with carriages of a glittering
form and substance, in which were men and women of surprising beauty, drawn by large red sheep
which surpassed in fleetness the finest coursers of Andalusia, Tetuan, and Mequinez.[18]

"Here, however, is a country," said Candide, "which is better than Westphalia."

He stepped out with Cacambo towards the first village which he saw. Some children dressed in
tattered brocades played at quoits on the outskirts. Our travellers from the other world amused
themselves by looking on. The quoits were large round pieces, yellow, red, and green, which
cast a singular lustre! The travellers picked a few of them off the ground; this was of gold,
that of emeralds, the other of rubies--the least of them would have been the greatest ornament
on the Mogul's throne.

"Without doubt," said Cacambo, "these children must be the king's sons that are playing at quoits!"

The village schoolmaster appeared at this moment and called them to school.

"There," said Candide, "is the preceptor of the royal family."

The little truants immediately quitted their game, leaving the quoits on the ground with all
their other playthings. Candide gathered them up, ran to the master, and presented them to
him in a most humble manner, giving him to understand by signs that their royal highnesses
had forgotten their gold and jewels. The schoolmaster, smiling, flung them upon the ground;
then, looking at Candide with a good deal of surprise, went about his business.

