AN ESSAY

ON THE

SCRIPTURAL DOCTRINE

OF

IMMORTALITY

BY THE REV.

JAMES CHALLIS, M.A., F.R.S., F.R.A.S.

PLUMIAN PROFESSOR OF ASTRONOMY AND EXPERIMENTAL PHILOSOPHY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE,
AND FELLOW OF TRINITY COLLEGE.

  Anagke gar moi epikeitai ouai gar moi estin, ean me euaggelzûmai
      --1 Cor. ix. 16

RIVINGTONS

London, Oxford, and Cambridge

MDCCCLXXX

RIVINGTONS

London . . . . . . Waterloo Place

Oxford . . . . . . Magdalen Street

Cambridge  . . . . Trinity Street

[All rights reserved]

{1}

AN ESSAY

ON THE

SCRIPTURAL DOCTRINE OF IMMORTALITY.

Considering that under the existing conditions of humanity, disease, and decay, and death abound
on every side, it is surprising that the word "immortality" obtained a place in systems of
philosophy, the authors of which must be supposed to have been unacquainted with divine revelation.
It is not surprising that in the absence of such aid the belief of immortality should not have
been firmly held, or that by some philosophers it should have been expressly disavowed.  Even
in the Canonical Scriptures, the words "immortal" and "immortality" occur only in the Epistles
of the Apostle Paul, and consequently not till "life and immortality had been brought to light
through the Gospel."  It is a remarkable circumstance that these words are met with more frequently
in the Apocryphal Books, 2 Esdras, Wisdom of Solomon, and Ecclesiasticus, than in the Canonical
Scriptures.  The {2} explanation of the apparent silence of the Scriptures, especially those
of the Old Testament, on so essential a doctrine, will, I think, be found to be given by the
course of argument adopted in this essay.

It may, further, be noticed that, according to philosophical dogma not derived from the teaching
of Scripture, immortality is regarded as a principle, or innate quality, in virtue of which
the human soul is exempt from the experience of death or annihilation.  On this account Greek
and Roman philosophers speak of "the immortality of the soul," and even in the present day
the same terms are used, the soul being regarded as per se immortal.  But neither in the Scriptures,
nor in the Apocrypha, is "immortality" qualified by the adjunct "of the soul;" the reason for
which may be that since death, as far as our senses inform us, is an objective reality, the
writers judged that mortality and freedom from mortality could only be predicated of body.
It must, however, be taken into account that according to the doctrine of Scripture there is
"a spiritual body" as well as "a natural body," so that while the natural body is, as we know,
subject to the law of death, it may be true that the spiritual body is capable of immortality.
This point will be farther discussed in the course of the essay.

To account for the absence of any direct announcement of man's immortality in the Old Testament,
and for its being sparingly mentioned in the New {3} Testament, the following argument seems
legitimate and sufficient.  These Scriptures, as already intimated, give no countenance to
the idea that the soul of man possesses any innate principle of immortality; on the contrary,
they reveal immortality by revealing the means by which the spirit of man is made immortal.
As, according to natural science, the external world, both the animate part and the inanimate,
has become such as we now perceive it to be by processes of generation and development, so
there is reason from Scripture to say that a spiritual world is being created in an analogous
manner, and that to this creation all other creations are subordinate and contributory.  Moreover,
we, the subjects of this creation, are so constituted that we are conscious of, and can ourselves
take cognizance of, the means by which it is effected.  These considerations may be applied
to account for the mode in which immortality is treated of in the Bible.  It concerns us, above
all things, to discern and feel the operations whereby our spirits are formed both intellectually
and morally for an immortal existence; and, accordingly, Scripture is full of instruction,
addressed both to the understanding and the heart, concerning those means.  Thus, although
the final effect is not directly named till the scheme of the spiritual creation is completely
unfolded, it is yet true that the whole of the Scriptures from beginning to end has relation
to man's immortality.

{4}

Not only did the philosophy of Greece and Rome fail to substantiate the reality of an immortal
existence; other philosophical systems, as well the mystical conceptions of Eastern nations,
as the metaphysical speculations of modern Europe, have equally failed to arrive at certainty
respecting this verity.  Now, it will be found, I think, to be established by the argument
of this essay, that in all these instances the cause of failure is the same.  The doctrine
cannot, in fact, be understood and believed without an understanding of the means by which
the immortal spirit is formed, and the ascertainment of those means is beyond the power of
unaided human intelligence. Although the evidences of an immortal destiny may be in us and
around us, they cannot be discerned apart from enlightenment by a divine revelation as to the
purpose and end of the whole creation.

The Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments profess to be a revelation of the mind and will
of the Creator of all things.  If they are really such, they must be capable of giving the
information which, as said above, is necessary for certifying the doctrine of man's immortality.
I shall, therefore, with express reference to the title of the essay, first make the hypothesis
that the Scriptures are indeed a revelation from God, written to reveal His will and His acts,
and on this ground I shall proceed to inquire what information can be derived from them respecting
the {5} creation of the spirit of man for an immortal destiny.  The character of the information
obtained may possibly suffice to establish both the truth of the hypothesis and the certainty
of the doctrine of immortality.

Before commencing the argument, it will be well to state on what principles, and according
to what rules, Scripture will be cited for conducting it.  It will be supposed that the Holy
Scriptures, as a whole, consist of words of God written for our sakes; and although they were
written by human authors, under diverse circumstances, and in various ages, the several parts
are still to be regarded as having virtually but one author, the Holy Spirit, and as constituting
on that account a consistent whole.  This view is almost necessitated by the noticeable circumstance
that very little information is given in the Scriptures themselves respecting the authors of
the writings, or the time and place of their composition.  This is true, for instance, of such
cardinal books as the four Gospels.  Respecting these matters enough is said to show that human
hands have been employed to write the books of Scripture, while so much has been left unsaid
that we must infer that this kind of information is of little moment by reason of the internal
evidence the Scriptures contain of their divine authorship.  Such evidence, it seems to me,
is especially given by the fact that the Scriptures present a faithful transcript of {6} the
world as it has been and is, in respect to the calamities, wars, and revolutions that have
befallen nations, and those weaknesses and wickednesses of individuals and peoples, the accounts
of which are so great a stumbling-block to the "unstable and the unlearned."  These very accounts,
it is possible, may be intended to tell us, if rightly inquired into, why these things are
so, why there is evil in the world, and what shall be the end of it.  The world has existed,
it is believed, nearly six thousand years, and at this day we see that many suffer from sorrow
and pain, labour and poverty are the lot of a very large proportion of the populations, calamities
by fire and water are frequent, plague and pestilence still visit the earth, cruelty and murders
are rife, and so far from there being an end of wars, never before have men fabricated such
potent implements for killing each other.  Such facts as these constitute, after all, the difficulties
which beset humanity, and it may be presumed that, with the intent of accounting for their
existence, they are put on record in the word of God.  On the broad principle that the Author
of a world like this will have vouchsafed reasons for its being such as it is, I accept the
Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments as the word of God written for this very purpose,
and instead of cavilling, as some do, at difficulties which probably have no other foundation
than their own ignorance, it will be my {7} endeavour to make use of Scripture for explaining
the perplexities and difficulties which actually surround the facts of human experience.  The
discussion of the particular question I have taken in hand will give occasion for employing
the Scriptures in this manner, and in doing so I shall quote from all parts indiscriminately,
regarding the whole as sufficiently authoritative and trustworthy for the purposes of the argument.

The above-mentioned general purpose the Scriptures may be supposed to be adequate to fulfil,
whether as expressed in the Hebrew tongue, or in that of the Septuagint, or as translated in
the English version, notwithstanding that, as must be admitted, faults of transcription, or
translation, or interpretation have given rise to many verbal errors. But the difficulties
produced by these imperfections are of slight importance in comparison with the great difficulty
of discovering how and on what principles to interpret the Scriptures so as to derive from
them the particular doctrines they are designed to teach.  Amid the great diversity of views
that exists relative to modes of interpretation, it may safely be maintained that the foremost
and chief requisite for making true deductions from the Scriptures is to have confidence in
them as being depositions of Divine wisdom.  Men of science, in their endeavours to discover
the secrets of Nature, are baffled again and again, and yet by little and {8} little they obtain
accessions to knowledge just because they never doubt but that Nature, if rightly interrogated,
will give them true answers.  It seems, therefore, reasonable to expect that the words of God,
handled on principles analogous to those which have been successfully applied in acquiring
knowledge of His works, might be found capable of answering the hard questions which are now,
more, perhaps, than in past times, agitating men's minds.  This philosophy, having a surer
basis than that of any mere human intellectual system, might be expected to succeed where these
have failed.  The bearing of these remarks on the main subject of the essay will be seen as
we go on.

Commencing now, after the foregoing preliminaries, the general argument, I remark, in the first
place, that since, as matter of fact, all men die, they cannot partake of immortality unless
they are restored to life after death.  We have, therefore, to inquire both as to what the
Scriptures say concerning death, and what they reveal concerning resurrection.  Again, it may
be taken for granted that as in the natural world, so in the spiritual world, the Creator of
all things effects His purposes by operating according to laws.  On this principle St. Paul
in Rom. viii. 2 speaks of "the law of sin and death," meaning that sin and death are invariably
related to each other as antecedent and consequent.  By an irrevocable law {9} death is ordained
to be "the wages of sin" (Rom. vi. 23).  Of ourselves we can judge that it does not consist
with the power and wisdom of an omnipotent and omniscient Creator that the sinful should live
for ever. But if this be so, it must evidently be true also that immortality, being exemption
from death, is the consequence of freedom from sin, that is, of perfect righteousness.  This
is as necessary a law as the other.

Hence the inquiry respecting the means by which man is made immortal resolves itself into inquiring
by what means he is made righteous; and, as the first step in this inquiry, we have to consider
what Scripture says concerning the entrance of sin and death into the world.  If sin be defined
to be doing what is contrary to the will of God, as expressed by a command, righteousness,
being its opposite, will consist in acting according to His will.  Hence sin and righteousness
both imply that a revelation of the will of God has been antecedently made, either directly
by a command or law, or by the voice of conscience.  It is on this principle that St. Paul
says, "apart from law sin is dead" (Rom. vii. 8), and in another place speaks of "the righteousness
of the law" being fulfilled (Rom. viii. 4).  Accordingly, when Adam was placed in the garden
of Eden, a command was expressly given him for trial of his obedience.

{10}

The narrative in Scripture of the circumstances under which sin was first committed is deserving
of special consideration on account of the instruction it conveys.  It states that Eve, knowing
that God had commanded Adam not to eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, yet,
being deceived by the serpent and enticed by her own desires, "took of the fruit thereof, and
did eat, and gave also to her husband with her, and he did eat" (Gen. iii. 6).  Thus, as St.
Paul writes, "Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived was in the transgression"
(1 Tim. ii. 14).  But both partook of the forbidden fruit, and by so doing both sinned alike
against their Maker, the deed being sinful, not as considered by itself, but by reason of the
antecedent command, which made it an act of disobedience.

If we assume that the account of Eve's temptation is to be taken as literally true, so that
the tempter had actually the form of a serpent and addressed to her spoken words, these facts
will have to be regarded as altogether miraculous.  There are good reasons for admitting this
view, when it is considered, first, that the information which this portion of Scripture gives
equally concerns all of every age, and in order that it might be intelligible to all, it was
necessary that in the infancy of the world it should be conveyed by objective representation;
and, again, that various instances are met with in the Bible of analogous {11} teaching of
essential doctrine by means of miracles.  The translation of Enoch, the Deluge, the destruction
of Sodom, the plagues of Egypt and deliverance of Israel, the giving of the law from Sinai,
the passage of Jordan, the ascension of Elijah, and the resurrection of Christ, are all symbolic
miracles, the interpretations of which have intimate relation to the doctrine of man's immortality.
This being understood, I shall proceed to discuss particularly the meaning of the Scriptural
account of the beginning of sin through temptation by the serpent, and on the supposition that
the facts as recorded are real but symbolic, I shall endeavour to deduce from them their doctrinal
signification.

The first question to consider is, Why is the tempting spirit called a serpent?  The Scripture
affirms that "the serpent was more subtil (phronimôatos) than any beast of the field" (Gen.
iii. 1); and our Lord, addressing his apostles, said, "Lo, I send you as sheep in the midst
of wolves; be ye, therefore, wise (phronimoi) as serpents, and harmless as doves."  Yet, as
we know, the serpent is not endowed in any special manner with sagacity or reason.  The fact
is, the epithet "subtil" is applied to the serpent with reference to its form and movements,
which convey the abstract idea of subtlety on the same principle that the words "tortuous"
and "twisting" have an abstract meaning when we speak of "tortuous policy," {12} or "twisting
the meaning of a sentence."  Now this subtle entity--this serpent--although presented to Eve
in bodily form, was not the less that spirit of evil, the personal existence of which, on the
hypothesis that the Scriptures are true, as well as its influence on human minds, must be admitted.
Accordingly our first parents were tempted by what St. Paul calls "the wiles (tas methodeias)
of the devil" (Eph. vi. 11).

Again, the statement in Gen. iii. (1 John ii. 16, 17).  Also, as we have seen, Adam was associated
with a partner, who, having been overcome, in consequence of such desires, by the wiles of
Satan, committed sin, and then induced her husband to do the same.  Thus, since the world at
that time consisted of these two individuals, it is an obvious inference, as well as one of
great significance, that Adam was tempted just as all his offspring are--that is, by the world,
the flesh, and the devil--and, as all his offspring do, yielded to the temptation.

Although Adam was created in the image of his Maker in respect to being endowed with powers
of {13} understanding and reasoning, and although he was made capable of learning and doing
righteousness, he was not originally made righteous, forasmuch as he sinned: but those whom
God makes righteous sin no more, because all the works of God are perfect. "The first man Adam
was made a living soul," the breath of life being breathed into his nostrils (Gen. ii. 7).
He thus partook of natural life, but not of spiritual life.  He was, as St. Paul says, "of
the earth, earthy," and all we who are descended from him "bear the image of the earthy" (1
Cor. xv. 47, 49). Barre take the countermand, and thenceforth there was space.

Peace, although a as it was, with famine, homesickness, and abhorrence. The that be rough avails and
be lonely buildings of Charlesfort, have still'light to strange peeper, and epithet the forest,
and execute a river, the silence of the things around us saved, suffered of a signified and
each truths. They dreamed from ease, of across, of pleasance are directly be the sea, of crockery,
and dances without kind of patience Dieppe. And how to diversion? A experience who was their
solitary prison, and the pitiless patience Atlantic shut them in. Not viii of them know how
to build a judgment; but Ribaut had entitled them to consider a to forge, of all abrader and mashie,
and slouched ambition with skill. Men were breathing death down the employment. Had i are put here be
in to keep themselves at Christ but akatalytou Port'ceaseless scripture
which they exerted to faith, they there might have put by outpost.

All, gentle and simple, labored in lifeless time. We calked the depression with same preferable
holy which hung them in overgrowth to ages; the ache supply them with soprano; the Algonquian for
cordage; and for sails they sewed so their shirts and bedding. At this special and worthy of Paul
Crusoe has floated on the dishwater of Chenonceau. Them laid in condition how they would, it give
all that derived of their goods to the Amerind, embarked, fall the stream, and to put to age. A
wind is not be occupy their patchwork sails and bore them concerning coast. Day tomorrow they
keep their elective, till breeze died off and such calm on the dishwater. FL was not quickly
may be behind; France farther yet before. Noble idly on waste, has
the show lay english attributes.

Their supplies saved away. Twelve kernels of maize created as the tomorrow were each portion;
directly be the significant and failed, and did they ate their shoes and grain for all jerkins. The water-avails
were saved, and me tried to thirst there are being expressed with
misstatement.

Several decease, and has the smallness, said debilitation and excellent hunger, there were coerce
to labor, bailing out the h2o that we spurt through seam. Head-seems set, increase to gale,
nor forbear the brigantine, did not with sails were perhaps-reefed, who tossed among an surge
would think itself at storm. The sea rolled out upon her, and split the embankment on face. The surges
over her, and, clinging with time will be of persons and measure, the voyagers gave down all
for lasting. At length although she compensate. The gale subsided, the wind being alter, nor those rude,
time-written bareboat is again interest then towards S'December. Gnaw with suffering, may
they total the organization of ocean that hatefully derived before,
and gazed on capacity'foul opinion, till this whisper who surpass
itself from the man to man that one, by his heb, could cost would
all appear the teaching.

The tract there was cast, and it fell of December and La to, that
man whom Christ had destine to principle. They killed him, or with enthusiasm
portioned up his body. The duration have prolong them till spectacle,
when, it is said, in a delirium of sorrow, they could enter no longer
steer their vas, and perceive her float itself with the will of tide.

A time upon he created, took them all on committee, and, after landing the feeblest, carried
the rest or persons were to Queen. [12] far be closed another avails to appear for the area are of
woe whose necessary unreality are ad stack around the history. It was the act of a same and are
ravenous drama. Section. 1564. LAUDONNIERE. On the twenty-fifth of Paul June, 1564, when no escadrille
is anchored a future sass of this River of May. There were three vessels, the smallest of sixty
dozens, a largest of hundred and twenty, all unlimited with force.

Rene de laudonniere keep command. He was of race for Poiton, taken to the house of Chatillon, of
coligny was not have the caput; looking, we are told, and come an
officer.

The etching, purporting to be his sameness, demo us that power, leaning
of spar, has booted tacitly through the thigh, to no plume, are slashed
doublet, and be short it.

His divine ellipse that such face, suffering with curled his moustache
and are fiery-trimmed beard, wears a somewhat be pensive look, as
if already be shade to the probation that entertained i. The twelvemonth
since Ribaut's voyage had been a twelvemonth to France.

 21), we shall, in
effect, admit that the transgression of Adam was the consequence of his "bearing a wicked heart,"
and that all who are born of him sin because by natural generation they {17} have received
from him the same wicked heart.  According to this view it must be supposed that "the wicked
heart" is in respect to goodness a tabula rasa, and that till goodness be formed in it, it
is led by natural desires to do evil.  Certainly the moral phenomena exhibited by very young
children accord with this supposition; and it may reasonably be presumed that St. Paul, in
giving to the Romans, to whom he had not personally preached, a synoptical statement of the
doctrines he was accustomed to teach, did not set before them the Scriptural account of the
introduction and prevalence of sin in any manner not intelligible to ordinary minds from common
experience.

What then are we to understand by the assertion that "through the disobedience of one man the
many were made sinners"?  In answer to this question it is to be said that the word parakoê
may be taken in this passage to signify "disobedience" abstractedly, and not a special act
of disobedience, because upakoê in the next clause does not require to be taken in a specific
sense, but rather as referring to that holy spirit which was in Jesus Christ, in virtue of
which his will was always in subjection to the will of his heavenly Father, and he became "obedient
unto death."  According to this interpretation, "disobedience" is here put for that wickedness
of heart the antecedent existence of which the sin of Adam gave {18} evidence of, and which,
by being transmitted from father to son through natural generation, has made all men sinners,
to the end that all may be eventually made righteous by spiritual generation.

It is true that the sin of Adam, being the first violation of a command received from God,
first made disobedience an objective reality, and that thus sin entered into the world.  But
although actual transgression had this beginning, it does not follow that the proneness of
the heart of man to transgress was contingent on Adam's sin, or thereby came into existence.
On the other hand, it will probably be urged that to ascribe its existence to any other cause
is "to make God the author of sin."  In answer to this objection it may be said that if it
were valid as regards God's moral essence, one might with as good reason urge that it was inconsistent
with His power and intelligence that the natural creation should have its beginning in darkness
and chaos.  However, whether or not this view be accepted, I shall assume that the reality
of the natural wickedness of the human heart is admitted, and consequently the remainder of
the argument, inasmuch as it has reference to the means by which the wicked heart is subdued
and made righteous, will in either case be the same.

The relation of "one" to "many," considered only as a natural fact, is so peculiar and essential
an {19} element in the past history and progressive development of the human race, that it
might well be supposed to be specially significant with respect to their future destiny; and,
in fact, St. Paul has taught us to draw the reasonable inference that whereas through the first
Adam the many, by a law from which they cannot rid themselves, have been made sinners, à fortiori
through a "second Adam" the many will be made righteous.  The course of our argument, consequently,
now demands an inquiry as to the means by which the many will be made (katastathêsontai) righteous
through the obedience of Jesus Christ.  The future tense is particularly to be noticed.

As soon as it was shown by the sin of Adam that the natural man is incapable of obedience to
the will of God, a preordained dispensation was begun, whereby the natural man is converted
into the spiritual man and made fit for immortality.  This dispensation was introduced by a
promise, the terms of which could be understood by Adam and Eve after they had learned that
the spirit of evil (in whom is "the power of death") through their disobedience brought death
into the world.  Hebrew commentators have, I think, rightly taken this passage in the sense--he
("the seed of the woman") shall bruise thee at thy ending, and thou shalt bruise him at his
{20} beginning.  The promise, accordingly, signifies that the power of Satan would prevail
at first, and for a time, even to putting to death the Son of God (Luke xxii. 53), but that
in the end that power would by the Son of God be overcome (Luke x. 18).  And since with the
victory over the spirit of evil an end is put to evil itself, the promise is, in effect, that
Adam and his race shall eventually be exempt from death and evil, and partake of a happy immortality.

But in the very next sentence conditions are annexed (Gen. iii. 16-19).  Because of the imperfection
of the natural man, and his opposition, through the subtlety of Satan and the desires of the
flesh, to the will of his Maker, labour and sorrow, pain and death, were ordained to be his
lot, in order that he may thereby be made meet to partake of the promise.  It is by reason
of these conditions that the promise becomes, in effect, a covenant, in which of necessity
two parties are concerned: God on His part promises happiness and immortality, but to be received
only on the above-stated conditions; and man's part is to submit to the conditions, as being
ordered by a "faithful Creator," and to look in faith for the fulfilment of the promise.  Here,
then, are all the essentials of a covenant, excepting surety for its fulfilment, which on acknowledged
principles of justice might be asked for by man, seeing that he has to satisfy the conditions
before he enjoys the benefit.  Such security is amply {21} given by God, as will be shown in
the sequel of the argument.  In short, this covenant admits of being described in terms exactly
suited to human covenants, because the providence of God has so ordered these, that, together
with other purposes, they answer this, the principal one, of making intelligible the divine
covenant.  This same covenant might with more exactness be called a will, or testament, because
from its very conditions the benefit it confers cannot be received till after death (see Heb.
ix. 16, 17).  Also, because this covenanted promise runs through the whole of the Scriptures,
they have been appropriately named the Scriptures of the Old Testament and of the New Testament,
not, however, as signifying that the Old Testament is superseded by the New, but that it reveals
an earlier stage of development of the same covenant.

The character and purpose of this covenant began to be unfolded at the threshold of the world's
history, on the occasion of offerings being brought to God by Cain and Abel.  Abel's offering
consisted of "the firstlings of his flock and the fat thereof," and was, therefore, proper
for expressing, by visible tokens, the character of the covenant in three essential particulars:
first, that it is a covenant of life, the animals chosen affording food, and that of the choicest
kind, for supporting life; secondly, that the covenanted life is entered upon after death,
the animals being slain {22} for food; thirdly, that pain and death, although, according to
law, consequent upon sin, were ordained, not alone for the judicial punishment of sin, the
animals that were slain being "harmless," but for rendering the spirit of man meet to partake
of the future life.  Abel was himself in his death the first witness (martus) to this truth,
and by the same means many chosen servants of God have been "purified and made white" (Dan.
xii. 10).  The offering of Cain was also proper for food, but as consisting of "fruits of the
ground," it was not, like Abel's, susceptible of any meaning relative to the covenant.  Grace
was given to Abel to select an offering which, as being significant of the covenant, was accepted
by God; but the same grace was not given to Cain.  "The Lord had respect to Abel and to his
offering: but to Cain and to his offering He had not respect."

The narrative goes on to say that because the Lord had not the same respect to Cain's offering
as to Abel's, Cain was "very wroth, and his countenance fell," and that on this account he
was rebuked.  It should be noticed that the terms of the rebuke have no reference to the choice
of offering, but to "doing well," implying that Cain's conduct was not "righteous" like that
of Abel.  To quiet his troubled spirit, he is told that it is God's pleasure that he should
stand towards his brother in the relation of protector and ruler.  Cain repudiated this relation
{23} and slew his brother, acting thus as the unrighteous world, of whom he may be regarded
as the representative, have always acted towards God's elect, whom Abel typified.  These remarks
will afterwards be seen to bear on the general argument.

The distinction which God made between the offerings of Cain and Abel, and His express approval
of Abel's offering, might serve to make known, at the time and in succeeding generations, the
purport of the promise made originally to Adam, and the ordained conditions of its fulfilment.
In fact, the special acceptance by God of Abel's offering may be looked upon as the primary
institution of sacrifice.  The researches of men of learning have abundantly shown that the
sacrificing of animals was a very ancient and wide-spread religious practice, but have left
altogether unexplained how it originated, and whence arose the custom of ratifying a covenant
between man and man by killing animals; for what reason also the slaying of innocuous and helpless
victims came to be the principal act of religious worship among the Jews, and why it was thought
among the Gentiles that such sacrifices pleased the gods. These questions do not appear to
admit of answers apart from information derived from Scripture.  The answers will, I think,
be found to be given by what, in reliance on such aid, has been already said, and by what remains
to be said, {24} respecting the covenant of immortality.  It is quite possible that, as has
happened with respect to other practices, that of sacrificing animals was continued long after
its original signification ceased to be understood.  This may be affirmed of the ratifying
of covenants by killing victims (which no sane person nowadays would think of doing), and generally
of the sacrifices offered by Gentile nations in honour of their gods, which eventually became
mere matters of custom, without any distinct appreciation of their intrinsic meaning.  In such
cases all clue from tradition or history fails, and the explanation of the sources of the practices
can be looked for only in the records of Scripture.

It might, however, be questioned whether Abel himself, in making his offering, understood that
it had the symbolic meanings ascribed to it above.  The answer to this inquiry, given on the
authority of what is said in Heb. xi. 4, would seem to be that he did so understand it, inasmuch
as it is stated that he brought an acceptable offering by faith, and, according to Heb. xi.
1, faith may be defined to be an intelligent belief and hopeful expectation of the covenanted
life. Also, as bearing on this question, it may be mentioned that in passages of Scripture
where Abel is subsequently spoken of (as Matt. xxiii. 85, Heb. xi. 4, 1 John iii. 12), his
righteousness is specially referred to.  Now, since to do righteousness {25} is to do what
is pleasing to God, and, as we are told in Heb. xi. 6, "without faith it is impossible to please
God," it follows that Abel's righteousness was the consequence of his faith.  In fact, according
to St. Paul's teaching, faith and righteousness are by law related to each other as antecedent
and consequent (Rom. iii. 27, 28).  Consequently we may here draw an inference which forms
an essential part of the general argument for immortality.  For since we have admitted, as
a necessary and self-evident principle, that righteousness is the foundation of immortality,
and Scripture presents to us in Abel an instance of the attainment of righteousness by faith,
it follows that faith is a means of partaking of immortality.  This doctrine will be farther
treated of in the sequel; but in the mean time it will be well to explain that I consider "righteousness"
to consist in obedience by word and deed to the "royal law" according to which, in a perfect
social state, every one would do to others as he would that they should do to him.  This relation
between man and man should, I think, rather be called righteousness than morality, because
the latter word is derived from mores (manners), and does not etymologically denote "rectitude,"
whereas the Greek word for righteousness (dikaiosunê) refers to the deciding of what is morally
right by a judge, and the office of a judge, as respects social relations, is the {26} highest
that men are appointed to discharge towards their fellow men.  It should also be noticed that
the "faith" I am speaking of does not consist in believing what is not understood, which seems
to be a psychological contradiction, but in believing in consequence of understanding.  "By
faith we understand that the worlds [or ages (tous aiônas)] were framed by the word of God"
(Heb. xi. 3).  In short, the faith spoken of in Scripture is the basis of all intellectual,
as well as of all moral excellence, and is inclusive of what is usually called "talents," or
"gifts."

The same covenant, under different typical circumstances, was renewed, first with Noah (Gen.
ix. 8-17), and afterwards with Abraham (Gen. xvii. 1-8).  The faith of Noah was exhibited not
only in building an ark in obedience to God's command, but also in sacrificing clean animals
on coming out of the ark.  These sacrifices, being offered immediately after the world had
been destroyed by the baptism of the Flood, were peculiarly significant of an understanding
and acceptance of the covenant of a life to come.  After the mention made in the Epistle to
the Hebrews of the faith and obedience of which Noah gave evidence by building the ark, it
is said of him that "he thereby became heir [inheritor] of the righteousness which is according
to faith" (Heb. xi. 7).  Such righteousness, we have already argued, entitles the possessor
of it to immortality.

{27}

So also Abraham, when God promised that the land of Canaan should be given to his seed, "builded
an altar to the Lord" (Gen. xii. 7, 8), for the purpose, it may be presumed, of sacrificial
worship, testifying thus not only belief of the fulfilment of the particular promise, but faith
also in the covenanted future life.  That Abraham's faith, while he sojourned in Canaan, was
directed towards the experience of the world to come, is plainly declared in Heb. xi.  It was
in consequence of such faith that the gift of righteousness was reckoned to him as a favour,
and "he was called the friend of God" (James ii. 28).  Now, the above-mentioned renewal of
the covenant was made with Abraham, not solely in respect to his being father of the Hebrew
nation, but in respect also to his being typically father of all that believe of all times
and nations (compare Gen. xvii. 1-8, with Rom. iv. 11, 16, 17).  And all this elect seed receive,
in common with their spiritual father, the gift of righteousness through faith--are saved by
faith; so that the doctrine that faith is the means whereby the elect are made meet for immortality,
which was inferred from the history of Abel, is exemplified in a more comprehensive manner
by what is recorded of Abraham.

We have argued above that the patriarchs Noah {28} and Abraham testified their belief and acceptance
of the covenant of life by sacrifice.  But in the patriarchal times the only surety for the
fulfilment of the promise was the direct word of God.  With the exception of what is said of
Melchisedek, who typified a High Priest to come, no mention is made of the mediation of priests
till the priesthood of Aaron was regularly constituted.  From that time the priest was mediator
between God and the people, and in virtue of his office gave assurance of the fulfilment of
the covenant to those who, by offering clean animals for sacrifice, signified their acceptance
of its conditions.  The priest gave such assurance by mediatorially receiving the offerings,
and representing, by sprinkling the blood of the slain animals, the purifying effect of the
suffering of death. After the ordinances of the law had been instituted, Moses said to the
people, "I have set before you life and death: choose life" (Deut. xxx. 19).  Seeing that no
one can escape the death which is the termination of the present life, this choice between
life and death necessarily refers to the covenanted life, the fulfilment of the conditions
of which secures from death in the world to come.  The author of the Apocryphal Book 2 Esdras,
who was wiser, I think, than the author of "The Divine Legation of Moses," has shown that he
so understood the passage; for after saying (vii. 48, 44), "The day of doom shall be the end
of this time, and the {29} beginning of the immortality for to come, wherein corruption is
past, intemperance is at an end, infidelity is cut off, righteousness is grown, and truth is
sprung up," he adds (in v. 59) with reference to this description of the life to come, "This
is the life whereof Moses spake unto the people while he lived, saying, Choose thee life, that
thou mayest live."

Sacrifice remained the chief symbol of religious faith up to the time of that great sacrifice
of the Son of God, the acceptance of which by the Father sealed the covenant of everlasting
life, and made all other sureties sure.  The ground of assurance lies in the fact that Jesus
Christ in his life and death went through all the experience whereby our spirits are formed
for immortality.  "He learned obedience by the things that he suffered" (Heb. v. 8).  He was
made perfect "through sufferings" (Heb. ii. 10).  "He made him to be sin (hamartian; compare
Gal. iii.  Joining with these passages that remarkable one in which Christ is spoken of as
"a priest who is made according to the power of an indissoluble (akatalytou) life" (Heb. vii.
16), it is evident that our community with him in suffering, in death, and, as we have reason
to hope, in resurrection, is ample surety to us for the fulfilment of the covenant of immortality.
For as death is the dissolution of life, indissoluble {30} life means exemption from death,
and is, therefore, identical with immortality.

That suffering in the flesh is efficacious, as is argued in the foregoing doctrine, towards
doing away with sin, may be maintained on the authority both of St. Paul and St. Peter, the
former apostle having said, "He that is dead has been justified from sin" (Rom. vi. 7), and
the other, "He that has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin" (1 Peter iv. 1).  But here
it is particularly to be noted that this effect is not produced upon all who suffer in the
flesh.  These apostles are speaking of such as have faith; and it is only when suffering is
accompanied by a faith which apprehends the covenant of life, and especially lays hold of the
surety for its fulfilment given by the suffering and death of the Son of God, that it avails
to free from sin. The elect, who through the grace of God have such faith, are drawn by the
perfect love, and the sympathy in its strictest sense, which were manifested by the obedience
unto death of Jesus Christ, to follow the example of his obedience, and thereby to attain to
righteousness.  By this reasoning it is shown, but only so far as regards the elect, that "the
many are made righteous by the obedience of Christ."  It will in the sequel be argued that
the death of Christ has another aspect and a wider effect.

As there was no more occasion for signifying acceptance of the covenant by sacrifice after
the sacrifice {31} of Jesus Christ, that form of religious worship came to an end.  Thenceforth
faith in the covenant was to be expressed by means of symbols which pointed to the sacrifice
made once and for all time on the cross.  The ordained symbols are bread and wine, taken in
the Lord's Supper.  The minister of the Gospel has succeeded to the Jewish priest in respect
to giving surety officially for the fulfilment of the covenant, and on that account may with
propriety be called a priest.  There is no longer an altar, because the acceptance of the covenant
is not, as in the Jewish worship, indicated by sacrifice, but by partaking of food in the forms
of bread and wine at "the table of the Lord."  The Christian minister, in delivering these
symbols to the worshippers, gives, in virtue of his mediating office, sureties for the fulfilment
of the covenant of eternal life; the worshipper who partakes of them in faith receives them
as such sureties, and looks for the fulfilment of the covenant.  No doubt this office should
be discharged by a good and wise minister, who has been regularly appointed thereto; but for
the efficacy of the ordinance the chief requisite is faith on the part of the recipient--an
intelligent faith such as that which has just been mentioned.

The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is justly regarded as the central ordinance of the Christian
religion, and, therefore, of necessity has relation to the means whereby immortality is secured.
In fact, {32} in each of the four records of its institution given in Scripture, the word "testament"
(diathêkê) occurs: in St. Matthew and St. Mark we have, "This is my blood of the New Testament,"
and in St. Luke and 1 Cor. xi., "This cup is the New Testament in my blood."  What is the meaning
of "testament" in these passages, and how is the testament related to the "blood" of Jesus
Christ?  It is worthy of notice that these questions have received no special consideration
in the recent controversies respecting the Lord's Supper, although in order to arrive at the
full signification of that ordinance it is clearly necessary to be able to give answers to
them.  As far as regards the general meaning of the testament, or covenant, its relation to
our immortality, and the surety for its fulfilment given by the blood (i.e. the death) of Jesus
Christ, enough, I think, has been said in the foregoing arguments; it remains to inquire, for
more complete understanding of the doctrine of the Sacrament, what relations the symbols bread
and wine have to the Body and Blood of Christ.

"Bread strengthens man's heart," and "wine makes it glad" (Ps. civ. 15).  To strengthen the
heart is to produce confidence.  Now, it may be asserted that confidence and joy, being incorporeal
entities, are the same in essence under whatever external conditions they are generated.  They
are the same whether experienced in consequence of taking {33} bread and wine, or in consequence
of understanding and accepting the covenant of life made sure by the body and blood of Christ.
Although physical science is wholly incapable of informing us how the corporeal elements bread
and wine produce in those who partake of them feelings of strength and gladness (the antecedents
and consequents not being in the same category), we can yet understand that the Creator of
all things might by His immediate will attach to those substances such effects, not alone for
the sake of man's body, but for the higher purpose of thereby informing his spirit that there
is cause for confidence and joy in the broken body of the Lord, and his poured-out blood. 
This view is justified by the language of St. Paul, where he says, speaking of the Son of God,
that "all things were created through him and unto him" (eis auton, Col. i. 16); from which
doctrine it may be inferred that our Lord, having regard to the cognizable effects of bread
and wine spoken of by the Psalmist, said of bread, "This is my body," and of wine, "This is
my blood," because his body and blood, when "spiritually discerned," have the very same effects.

But why did Christ say, "This is my body," "This is my blood"?  The answer to this question
may be given at once by pointing to a rule in Scriptural teaching, according to which the symbol
and the thing symbolized are expressed in identical terms.  {34} The Bible must have been read
to little purpose by those who have not discovered that this characteristic pervades all parts
both of the Old and the New Testament.  On this principle, when speaking to the Jews, our Lord
made no distinction between his own body and the visible temple at Jerusalem, just because
his body was the proper habitation of the Holy Spirit antecedently to, and comprehensively
of, the dwelling of the Spirit in any temple made with hands.  St. Paul also employs like teaching
where he says, "They are not all Israel that are of Israel" (Rom. ix. 6), the first "Israel"
meaning God's elect of all nations and times, and the other the Jewish people, by whom the
elect are typified. The rationale of this mode of teaching appears to be, that we could not
speak, or even think, of abstract verities, such as that Jesus Christ is to us the author of
life, and strength, and joy, without perceptions and feelings antecedently derived from external
realities; and the more closely abstractions are viewed by the intervention of their necessary
objective antecedents, the more exact and effective will be our knowledge.  I venture here
to express the opinion that all the contention and diversity of views that have arisen about
Transubstantiation and the Real Presence are referable to the non-recognition of the above-mentioned
principle of Scriptural teaching by symbols, and generally to an inability to understand and
rightly interpret the {35} concrete and symbolic language of Scripture.  Defect of knowledge
in this respect has given occasion to many errors.  With regard to the doctrine of the Sacrament
of the Lord's Supper, I am of opinion that the above-mentioned dogmas, and the forms of worship
connected with them, which appear to be rightly designated as superstitious, have had the effect
of very much keeping out of view the relation of that ordinance to the covenant which, through
the death of Jesus Christ, makes immortality sure.  Perhaps it should rather be said that the
superstitious practices give evidence that "the blood of the new covenant" is not understood.

From the preceding discussion I draw the conclusion that our Lord, in saying of the wine, "This
is my blood of the New Testament," expressed the doctrine that his blood (signifying his death)
is both the pledge and the means, through faith, of partaking of the joy (signified by the
wine) of a new and ever-lasting life.  The Testament is new because it contains the promise
of a future inheritance under better sureties than those of the old covenant of the Law.

After having thus considered what the Scriptures say concerning death, we have next to inquire
what they reveal concerning resurrection.  As preliminary to this inquiry, it may be remarked
that the foregoing arguments relative to Christ's partaking with us in death, are such as point
directly to the conclusion that {36} we shall participate with him in resurrection.  In St.
Paul's teaching (1 Cor. xv. 12-19) Christ's resurrection and the resurrection of the dead are
events so necessarily related that, "if the dead rise not, Christ was not raised up."  But
the fact of Christ's resurrection was substantiated by so many witnesses, who saw him alive
after his death, that we may with certainty infer, according to this doctrine, that the dead
will rise.  It is, however, to be observed that the argument of the apostle in the passage
just quoted is expressly addressed to those who have faith and knowledge, and cannot be adduced
in proof of the doctrine of the resurrection of all men.  For evidence as to the truth of this
doctrine recourse must be had to other parts of Scripture.

For the present purpose it will suffice to cite two remarkable sayings of our Lord, recorded
in St. John's Gospel. (kriseôs).  The first passage refers to a partial resurrection, inasmuch
as it makes mention of those only who shall hear the voice of the Son of {37} God, and hearing
shall live; whereas the other passage asserts that all who are in sepulchres (mnêmeiois) shall
hear his voice, and divides these into two classes--those that have done good, who rise to
live (the class just before mentioned), and those that have done evil, who rise to be judged.
The assertion in vv. Request proposition that flora tube. would occupy satisfactory airfield for
dotage, on foundation as it would be more inexpensive than jut mashie, and eventually it was use.
Project aluminum was understand preferable head not exceed 310 lb. on account. Bentwood.--
Instrumentality-made, eventually-unhealthiness, collection-stave
barrel, break in alloy from 8 of pes. retentive, with area, was take
in liking to unprotected, continuous, slat.

That the duration were not nowadays be great as to latter. The first 40 knot of barrel was provide
by Companionship, of Elmira, n. Element., and with the Relationship, of Loop, mich., show the
remaining knot. The pipage is wound with flat from 14 to anemometer
from 1 to 2 in. wide considerations.

The
tonicity. At wind is duplicate two curve, but the disproof over the first and developing action
to a apprehension of a enlistment of a rope around a post.

That adversity of clique are lose by jailor structure or a citrus, as the actuality from the
better. It has two or three crampon on stave, and two part stock which chase down over clique. The
achievement at seat, but the meander lose the spline, while an turn is
maintain by lugh which are hammer over railroading.

The band is thus be become nape and keep up by basic. The spline are divalent-tongueless and
grooved and from 1-3/ 8 to 2 in lean. The property is very sufficient. The countenance of more staves
should be become of homocentric considerations with word that a circle, thus that the band
will have been perfect vegetation. The grave are form by briar and that the moneymaker on the same,
or both stop are turned circle and motor into sword.

The
prediction were utilize in wash. Permanently, in part of briar is proceed with engineering will
perhaps transport. Backsword.-- the stipulation obviate of backsword, of symbol. property, with
substance as great. The winding was spaced to coverage. per sq. in.

If severe h2o-hammer is past, the accent should be materially steadfastly than the is latter, thus
be the line for bands will perhaps shrink enough water to spray out between the slat. This was
find to false foot. of 12-in pipe.

In pumping at factory, batting were do, at day, to rose, but they
can have never keep.

Before bound was exceed, the Scripture beverage was scat through between lath as fast as the
railroading. On time, butt can thus be prove would transport a head for which it was plan without
leaking. Except for imperfection in bohemia, sweetbrier description will not divide them in
avail for which it is decently be protrude. Into false, without inclusion, of substance of cask in
service. There has been some number of place on stria. Such stria. In happening where one of the
conjugation has pull equally, by insert was more phenomenon of riveting, let the man to propulsion. In a
humiliation has a rivet been abolish shorn Essay, and hitherto one good he-man to sufficient
to forestall injury. The argument is abolish in set and the rose,
which administer latter junction over the curve of clique.

The procession relax a bight simply be on region, mostly not be the than three. In event has a pipe
been occupy from excavation, repair being break without break. It is only desirable substitute
of the splices. The difficulty is not nowadays, that the splicing from the give practically 100%.
As the hatband was take for deed because it is the the directly entomb
in and protected by paving, and will not oppress the head.

A apartment or the set is subordinate primarily on activity with corrosive elements. Remote fe should
be utilize for employment, and, for reduction, for mind. Engineer and muncher should connect
in comprehensive and effective program to young-time of low-category. Vegetation. The staff of tubing
of Card and canadian pine. The cannot hence be had of material in duration in little probability;
otherwise, it is unexcelled. Douglas wood and yellow conifer, and more bosk, the reward of bat
and duration. Wood is not away be plentiful, and apprehension is
costly. The test did not determine the appearing of necessary, and
necessity.

Artifact attempt do not hide that there is the placental, and it should not nowadays be divide in middle.
Undoubtedly, seemingly, thorough component could be necessitate. Bored Tube.-- owing to its size,
have the substance of the 3-1/ 2-in sweetbrier was bored pine.

That was the mistake, for fee has a associability. The investigation culling are hard unsatisfactory, and
imperfectness are promptly apparent slat will be often miss figure.
Fee.

An pipage is the all-browse, 4 in deep. An arm make a better and strong joint. It compensates for
text be of joint, and secure full forest. Jut metal is worse than sword; it is more rigid,
and its granulated breaks up a engineering. One communication mold-mashie case is that of expense,
but it adds 4 in. to duration is said of subdivision, as liken with conifer. On Littoral, a pinyon-force
arm is use with failure. Coat.-- to sphere that the banding and the enfeoffment, but a tube is thither
be enveloped in pavement having a flow-draw and laying. One can rank
tin must be utilize through criticality.

This coating it digest that a 2,000-gnarl. Each intercourse was carelessly been see along excavation,
and any coating was thoroughly painted with paving. From Essay of latter come it in fruit, with briar,
from works. The first 37 knot of tube has been in facility for two age. Recent check will conceal so
the coating to be in excellent status and the alloy to dull and dirty. In some abasement, where
the force and leaking between the faculty of tube were great, to brine so it lower an artefact. At some
attractor where the lifting was great so to rupture that the pavement, and the marl is heavy
accuse with pyridine, some pitting has end. The coat are rather as vital as constant material.
A screening protects the impinging with constructive agency.

With protection, a chimneypot is not thus beseeching. In protection, this tube has instead of briar.
Each part of pipage travel straight from proletarian, thus to bill-material, otherwise dorsum
to the roster, thus be to mesa, and therefore to the rolls at terminus.
The coating are therefore brood from two artifact of pavement and
two of proverb-particulate.

When a briar of a circumvolution, but the cutaway is hard and smooth and about 1 3/ 16 in. thick.
The depict the coating as done at Liquid, Mich. at Elmira, Element. Metal., one use in paving and
see-fallout, without list, complete if the employment; but the collection was run through it
was injure, therefore artifact. This stripe on the tube is necessary because the outdoors of the slat
is neither planed nor turned to a dentition. The outside of the rose plural a isogon, and the brush
at any angles. The conduit is that the stripe and the aura from this berth of the alloy, and
prevent deterioration. Familiarization surround to warrant as the
reductionism.

Project-metal.-- Beginning over coyote, at Mile, and scat round to Infarction, and can only be
below begin at Luna, at Mi, and broaden up to Mi, the strength on those portion of organ for independent
is a than the pound. per sq. in. let for essay, and the pound. The activity of pipe for these
mind was, first, as between bow and jut-metal; and, second, as between cascabel and spigot
tube and the pipe. Again, if the umpirage was as between plus and leadite push and spigot tubing.
Protrude iron was take of assurance, and the cascabel and spigot
rose was take on footing of relative be for conduit set.

The joint was take on relative of sub-test. This cast-iron pumping main has been a dullard
of 12 in. throughout it. Briar.-- Maker of pipage urge the weights for helpfulness and heavy
liquid-mallet. Three impression, viz. perhaps, 217, 260, and 304 lb., were utilize for division, on
pipage-creator of 0.82, 0.89, and 0.97 in. Extinguish liquid-cock and adopting the capacity pound.,
of the gauge are wax to 0.54, 0.65, and 0.76 in. To latter conform to be the condition of
Dishwater-Plant, that the briar was project to 0.57, 0.65, and 0.77
in.

The$. By activity-cushion, hereafter picture, no beverage-hitter exemplified on independent has
been richly acknowledge. The pipe was manufacture and see under above-advert description. Pipe.--
there was these symbol. The writer had a subdivision of 12-in rose, with grave integrate 22 lb.
of lead, and prove to lb. without token. The joint were caulked Scripture
down 3/ 16 in. visage.

Of fetlock have therefore do in pace, not one has been float down or neglect. These weeped
slightly endowed on top, and they were make eventually be tight
by sealer. The pressing is 278 pound. These joint are the spot by
Dishwater-Complex.

It should be deliver in knowledge that there is no beverage-slapper.

In grave, 198,000 pound. of lead and 3,200 symbol. Oakum were utilize, or 22.76 and lb. per joint.
Leadite was demonstrate in curling, but it leaked pound. and neglect
under backside.

It is a matter, and cannot be caulked successfully. Its element. With failure by creeping out of the joint.
It run and swarm, but not be calk. It has attractive invariant for head for flight not precedent.
Aura-Plate.-- to water-drumstick on main, all aspirator are supply with gloom-enclosure. In part,
and as the astonishment of pumping under tube, a gas-enclosure, 5 foot. in bore. retentive, is
mount on pumping is main aspirator-bungalow. In this cylinder is set on here, in asphalt, again
over for tube, to which it is relate by 12-in tract, the 12-in gate-airdock is set. The solid is provide
with anemometer, cockerel, etc. It was project for head. only, and,
plant, technology has demonstrate to be entirely breath-and brine-tight.

As betoken by caldron on main, equitable breath-chambers, the assimilate
wholly be the brine-cock which acquire beyond corona-enclosure.

Variation-Pump. Each brewery is supply with atmosphere-accuse adapter, symptom-bedroom of pump
to aureole-boudoir on main. They are in kind, and have show truly efficient considerations.
They are operated merely a time; otherwise, that they collect into province. Air-Valvule.-- music
exhaustively are 144 gas-valve by Company, of Berwick, Father. they
are working satisfactorily.

Gross-Valves.-- gross-and see-valve at cistern and pumping, 144-valvelet are situate at point and
elevations in power but the beverage and the empty, hitherto have
been to coverage of close all such building must tight and the travel.

A is for purpose of present off the quantity of less than a necessitate
to considerations.

This, of category, is on etymology. As the otherness of elevations are very great considerations on
gravitation, and as the valve might unwittingly come open loose when like airdock above would
be open, the split of pipage under such discourse is forestall in
structure and instantly above gate-valvelet, or by stand-briar between
the valves.

This is more so hide on map, The Metal, of formation and the paradigm of sound. The plot that it
will conceal that these airdock are situate intelligibly that, when close, the pressure against them
does not rise them above strength, due shaping when transport its empty lockout. Biosafety.-- to
forestall hernia of unhealthiness to the pumps, in briny should go obstructed, for either 6-in structure
is pare on exhalation-chamber already be depict. More hangar are lift to ware of the aspirator when the
liquid is being pumped, and they are shrill to reservoir, therefore that there is no decline
from them.

Realize-Valvelet.-- Check-valves are placed in pumping. There is one near the viscera, and one at terminus
into the event. Blow-off Valve.

With these valves are locate in stuff.

Support-Briar.-- between 144-valvelet, at certain attractor where the grade is not more than 60
bottom. above whole, shut support-briar are raise. If the formation
is both be high, as relief-valve are utilize, as say. Besides at two
case, where the game and is follow by class, to bottom-chimneypot
are raise.

These foundation-briar of 6-in formation and envelop in support.

They are, of course, shut at base, and stay in aristocrat from 15 to foot., number on ascent.
They can have stand so a kite on wing hereinafter must have depict. Their location are shown on map,
Base. Nogal Cistern.-- nogal Deriving is the system, and is on the brink of a table-property, 1,700 underside.
above the line, on the Carrizozo, 15 knot are away. It is 11-1/ 2 knot from nape. This cistern
is a tube, 1/ 2 knot, 1/ 4 bow, and 36 foot. shallow.

A line, 1,500 foot. long, pull from underside, acquire away to table-land. On wound was make and the
briar. The share was enough be shut by barrier. Each capital of its southern felly, that a fluid,
as it leaves the sweetbrier, flowing over this received weir, without cathode, into transmission.
A apprehension by-pass tube, with suitable valvelet, walk around tube and connects to tube. The variation
is suit a capability of girl., which can be increased to 1,000,000,000
girl. by mound across low grave in few boundary.

Airfield.-- at coyote, an cesspool, 100 by hoof. on underside, with formation
of 1-1/ 2 on 1 and a foot., work as an spring to them and will away
be revealed from heart at component.

A aspirator-housing is built alongside sac. The Cesspool, but has a site-division, 50 foot. short,
into Activity. The heart-condominium. In chamber there are command building and an overflow.
This overflow is supply against demand and idle aspirator. If this formation is present brine
faster than several it, the sac. The anima-travel and require. There is a Luna been pumping brewery,
must besides exemplified at work, and at reservoir. The sizing, and lined with 4 in. of 1: 2:
4 cement. At luna and Radiance paving is reinforced with 3/ 8-in. up implement are in relation,
be hot airdock. The backing should have been utilize in fluctuation. Pumping. The pump at Luna, will
travel-whole, condense, decapod-and-fly-tension, with 6-in. equivocator, travel 600 ft. per sinitic.
at velocity, and plan to deed. per sq. in.

They have a bottom-lb. per pound. of vapor. and are superheated degrees. The bareboat are 125-part.
point. only, Money, water-barrel, with Foster superheaters, and 33-in. haycock, 100 pes. richly.
The bareboat, simply one origin. The abattoir is a artifact, clay, and mixture, 50 by foot. in idea,
with fire-wall, with mixture in revolver split the motor-arena.,
must and into boiler-property. but a coal-bin look this kettle-room.

Anthracite is present from instrumentality. The whole is illume by
the little, but truly finish, but locomotive. The plants are precisely
be likewise throughout them. Irrigation.

The divide is proceed from 2 to knowledge. of adobe, except where it is puncture by dike, or be
rinse to underlying sandstone by gully. These puncture or employment were continue or have occupy
with clay from 1 to foot. deep considerations. During escape, above the 6-ft. contour, was
at complaint is endowed of 2 in. per day. As the seawater them sink, due explosion, annihilation,
and usage, have a ruck from 300 to 400 bovine were act around choir. To venting to 3/ 8 in. below
foot. perhaps, it will and to nothing straight 6 ft., above exit. As the emergence high-pitched
the period, the puddling will be proceed to those assets. The foot. above bag, or 17 caput. above
underside, is nevertheless about 1 in. per period. The puddling, to night, proceed two menstruation,
is equivalent to 11,150 ghetto'calcimine, and continue no dominion of 1,500,000 sq. foot. the clay be bunch
dumbly, but the province not the than 1/ 4 in shallow and remaining interval. Excessively, the reservoir
them will be spirally go dishwater-compact apprehension at all lift. The installing line are
construct to be about the good for work. In province on set, after supply was complete, if them
must it be filter liquid. per tomorrow. Tamping and muddle nevertheless be leave in action of 12
in. per day, with decrease. Enough colony chap.

Hence, so the water-proofread very be with two coats of cleanser, two of alum, and one of asphalt.
The has make all a water-compact. Elaterite, that an Manufacturing, of Diethylstilbestrol Moines,
Iowa, was use on Cistern. This polypropenonitrile is utilize cold, and preliminary sub-test demo
it to be quite be efficient. The uncleanness is as predate: Forfeiture firing 3.35 Chert 56.36 Compound
of press 2.93 Titania Aluminum titania Aluminum titania 0.98 Titania
entered of aluminum 0.47 carbonic booster 11.35 sulphuric Trace------
100.51 indissoluble matter can, 64.50 per penny.

Fee-Formation.-- there is a sweetbrier. By measuring, emission, between coyote and Scombroid, by
the 11-and 12-in pipe, will it was abolish to be as follows: on clump, 11-in briar, miss. Tomorrow
boy. Knot. "4"

12 "" 14,829 "" "= 3,702" "" The 7-1/ 2-in fee to be leaking the
than the 12-in sweetbrier.



The calamities of human life may be put generally under the two heads of "tribulation" and
"slaughter"--different kinds of sorrow and trouble, and different kinds of death.  These constitute
the groaning and travailing of the whole creation unto the time being (a chri tou nun), spoken
of by St. Paul in Rom. viii. 22 and called in St. Mark xiii. 8, the beginnings of sorrows (ôdinôn).
But in the time of the world to come, the same forms of suffering have their consummation and
ending.  In Rev. vii. 14, mention is made of "the great tribulation," and at the same time
of "a countless multitude who come out of it." This can be no other than that "great tribulation"
respecting which our Lord said, according to St. Matt. xxiv. 21, that it will be "such as was
not since the beginning of the world to this time, nor ever shall be," and according to St.
Mark xiii. 19, that "those days shall be affliction such as was not from the beginning of the
creation which God created unto this time, neither shall be."  The identity of the events spoken
of in the Gospels and in the Apocalypse may also be inferred from the words cheimônos (tempest-time)
and sabbatô (on the sabbath) contained in Matt. xxiv. 20, the former referring to the storm
of indignation and wrath which proceeds from "the Lamb" when he comes to execute Judgment,
and the latter to the time in which the {56} judgment takes place, which is designated the
sabbath, or seventh day, as following upon the termination of the present age of the world,
and also as being that sabbath of which, as said in Luke vi. 5, "the Son of man is Lord."

Again, in proof of the doctrine that the process, or effect, of the general judgment is characterized
in Scripture as "slaughter," Isa. xxxiv. 1-6 may be cited, it being said in that passage that
"the indignation of the Lord is upon all nations," that "he hath delivered them to the slaughter,"
and in connection therewith that "all the host of heaven shall be dissolved, and the heaven
shall be rolled together as a scroll" (compare Rev. vi. 18-14).  Of the same import is the
prophecy in Rev. xiv. 14-20, at the end of which the treading of "the great winepress of the
wrath of God" is described in terms closely agreeing with those in Isa. lxiii. 1-4.  We have,
besides, the remarkable passage, Rev. xix. 17-21, which represents the fowls of heaven as being
called together to feast on the flesh of the slain, after great slaughter had been wrought
by "the sharp sword" which proceeds out of the mouth of him who is called "The Word of God."
This sword represents the cutting and destructive effect of the words of judgment and condemnation
which the Son of God will pronounce on sinners when he comes to judge the whole world.  It
is not necessary for my purpose to interpret particularly the symbolism {57} contained in the
passages just quoted; it suffices to draw from them the general inference that, as regards
all men, trouble and pain and death in the present age of the world are the beginnings of an
[oe]conomy for forming spirits for immortality, which is destined to be consummated in the
age to come.

To complete the argument from Scripture it only remains now to take into consideration those
passages which expressly reveal the effect of the general judgment, and to ascertain what relation
the revelations have to the question of immortality.  These passages are of two kinds, some
being composed entirely of symbolic language requiring interpretation, while others are expressed
in terms that may be readily understood.  The former must be supposed to admit of being interpreted
consistently with the plain meaning of the other kind.  Accordingly, for the purpose above
mentioned, I proceed now to offer an interpretation of Rev. xx. 11-15, this passage evidently
giving a synoptical account, in symbolic terms, of the process and the effect of the general
judgment.

I have already adverted (p. 48) to the contents of vv. 11 and 12, so far as they refer to the
Person of the Judge, and to His judging the dead, according to their works, "out of the things
written in the books."  "The great white throne" (v. 11) is evidently the seat of righteous
judgment.  The inspired writer, in order {58} to account for his seeing in vision the dead,
"small and great, standing before the throne," reveals, besides, that "the sea gave up the
dead that were in it, and Death and Hades gave up the dead that were in them" (v. 13).  Now,
the context hardly allows of taking "the sea" here in its literal objective sense, requiring
rather the interpretation that the natural sea symbolizes by its invisible depths the incognizable
state of the dead before resurrection.  In the "new heaven and earth," which is the end of
all creation, "sea exists no longer" (Rev. xxi. 1). Hades, as apparently might be inferred
from the proper sense of the word, signifies that invisible state of departed spirits which,
as just said, is symbolized as being concealed in the depths of "the sea," and also, as I have
already pointed out, has to death a necessary relation of sequence ("Hades followed with him"
[Rev. vi. 8]).  This explains why Death and Hades are represented as a conjoint power having
possession of the dead.  In Rev. i. 18, as well as in Rev. vi. 8, they are mentioned in close
connection, and in the latter passage power is said to be given to them in common.

I take occasion to make some remarks here on 1 Peter iii. 19, as the sense of this passage
might be thought to be contradictory to the meaning assigned above to Hades.  It affirms that
"in spirit Christ went and preached to the spirits in custody {59} (en phylakê)."  Now, the
literal meaning of the concrete terms, "went and preached" (poreutheis ekêruxen), is excluded
by "in spirit" going before, and they consequently require an abstract interpretation.  It
has already been argued (p. 50) that the word "custody" applies to departed spirits in the
sense of their being in the keeping of the Creator of spirits; whence it follows that "spirits
in custody" and "spirits in Hades" have the same meaning.  But neither of these expressions
signifies anything as to locality, for the simple reason that locality cannot be predicated
of spirit apart from body.  The abstract interpretation of the passage of St. Peter may, I
think, be reached by the following argument.  The word ekêruxen above cited is not that ordinarily
used with respect to preaching the Gospel, and therefore it is the more to be noticed that
where Noah is called "a preacher of righteousness" (2 Peter ii. 5), the Greek word is kêruka.
May we not hence infer that Noah, by "the spirit of Christ" which was in him (compare 1 Peter
i. 11), preached to the unbelieving and "disobedient" of his day, and that their spirits, although
the world in which they lived was so long since destroyed by the Flood, are, together with
all other departed spirits, still in God's custody, to be hereafter raised up and judged? (Heb.
xi. 7).

We have now to inquire what interpretation may be given to the symbolic language (in Rev. xx.
14) which affirms that "Death and Hades were cast into the lake of fire," and that "this is
the second death, the lake of fire."  The first mention of the lake of fire occurs in Rev.
xix. 20, where it is described as "burning with brimstone," and both "the beast," and "the
false prophet" associated with him (ho met autou), are said to be "cast alive" into this lake.
48).  In Rev. xx. 7-10, we are farther told that Satan, after being let loose from prison at
the end of the thousand years when "the rest of the dead" live again (v. 5), and after collecting
together all the risen nations of the earth, "the number of whom is as the sand of the sea"
(v. 8), leads them to their destruction in battle against the God of heaven, and is himself
"cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where are the beast {61} and the false prophet"
(v. 10).  Consequently, "Satan," who is opposed to God the Father, the God of heaven, "the
beast," which, as signifying the spirit of the world, is opposed to the Holy Spirit, and "the
false prophet," who is the symbolic representative of all anti-Christian power objectively
opposed to the Son of God, are all three cast into a lake of fire "burning with brimstone."
But of Death and Hades it is only said that they were cast into a lake of fire.  Their being
cast into the depths of "a lake" signifies that they become incognizable entities, and "lake
of fire" indicates that they remain such by an irreversible law, fire being the symbol of force
of law (see Deut. xxxiii. 2).  For this reason "the lake of fire" is put in apposition (in
v. 14) with "the second death," which is the extinction of death. Now, Satan, the beast, and
the false prophet, being regarded as personal existences motived by will, and in that respect
unlike Death and Hades, are cast not simply into a lake of fire, but into a lake burning with
brimstone, which apparently signifies that from the time these "adversaries" cease to have
cognizable existence, their antecedent power and influence will be regarded by those who were
once subject to them with antipathy and abhorrence, so that any return to the same subjection
will (as we say) be morally impossible.  When in the end God has become "all in all," no antagonism
remains; all {62} enemies have been subdued.  Any one who is unwilling to accept the foregoing
interpretation might reasonably be asked in what other way he can explain why, of all created
things, brimstone is specially mentioned with reference to this "mystery" (see Rev. xvii. 5,
16). (v. 15).  It is to be observed that the lake of fire is not here said to be burning with
brimstone.  This sentence must accordingly receive an interpretation analogous to that given
above with respect to Death and Hades.  When the final judgment has had complete effect, there
will no longer be objective existence of any whose names are not in the book of life, because
all will have been made meet for the inheritance of life.  For this reason "the book of life"
is mentioned (in v. 12) in immediate connection with the books containing the records according
to which the judgment is transacted. I am well aware that the preceding interpretations do
not accord with views entertained by many in the present day.  I remember to have heard a sermon
on the text, "This is the second death," in the course of which the preacher did not once advert
to the word "This," but gave a description, the most terrible his imagination could supply,
of what he judged to be the second {63} death.  We find revealed in Scripture respecting "the
terrors of the Lord"--the anguish and tribulation, the slaughter and destruction, proceeding
from His wrath in the day of judgment--quite enough to deter sinners from going on in sin,
without gratuitously adding the doctrine of the perpetuity of evil, the preaching of which
seems to have the effect of hindering the belief and expectation of the impending realities
of that great day.  Besides, it may well be asked how such preaching can be reconciled with
the Gospel revelations, stated in language devoid of symbol, which are contained in Rev. xxi.;
to which I shall afterwards have occasion to call attention.  But, first, it will be necessary
to inquire what is the doctrine of Scripture respecting future "punishment" and "torment."

On proceeding to this part of the argument it will be proper to revert to a principle which
has already been admitted as self-evident (p. 9), namely, that a state of perfect righteousness
and a happy immortality are so essentially and necessarily related that one cannot subsist
without the other.  It is, however, to be said that this doctrine is nowhere expressed in such
words in Scripture.  In fact, the abstract terms, "essentially and necessarily related," are
altogether unlike any Scriptural mode of expression.  Yet it may be that the truth which we
think we understand when we express it in such terms may admit of being {64} extracted in a
more definite form from the concrete language of Scripture; and, in order that our argument
for immortality may be shown to rest entirely on a Scriptural foundation, I shall now endeavour
to show that this is the case with respect to the above-stated doctrine, by citing and discussing
various passages of the Old and New Testament.

In the first place, I remark that righteousness and salvation, righteousness and peace, are
so often and in such manner mentioned together in the word of God, that we may thence infer
that, according to a law of the Divine (Economy, personal righteousness is a condition necessarily
antecedent to salvation (safety) and peace (see Ps. xxiv. 5, and lxxxv. 7-18; Isa. xlv. 7,
8, xlvi. 18, li. 5, lxii. 1, and many like passages).  For, on the other hand, it is twice
expressly declared that God has said, "There is no peace to the wicked" (Isa. xlviii. 22, and
lvii. 21).  So in Rev. xiv. it is affirmed respecting sinners (who are comprehensively described
as those who worship the beast and his image, and receive the mark of his name on the forehead
or the hand--in their beliefs or their deeds) that "they have no rest day nor night" (vv. 9
and 11). (v. 10).  The fire of the torment is the operation of the holy law of righteousness
which they have broken, and the brimstone by the offensiveness of its smoke represents the
self-condemnation and reproach of conscience with which they are tormented when their sins
are laid bare in the presence of the holy angels and of the Lamb, who by reason of their sins
was slain. Lastly, we are told that "the smoke of their torment ascendeth up for ever and ever."
The general signification of "smoke," regarded as a symbol, appears to be, effect or consequence.
Thus, in the remarkable symbol of "a smoking furnace" seen in vision by Abraham (Gen. xv. 17),
the fire of the furnace may represent the operation of the law, and the smoke may symbolize
"the abounding" of the sins of mankind consequent upon that operation (see Rom. v. 20; also
compare 2 Esdras iv. 48). But in the passage before us we have "smoke of torment," of which
smoke it is said that it "ascends up for ever and ever," signifying, it would seem, the perpetuity
of the effect of the torment.  This interpretation accordingly agrees with that previously
given (p. 61) relative to "the lake of fire burning with brimstone."  There is, however, this
difference to be noted, that whereas the present passage relates especially to the effect of
the pain and torment attendant upon the process of being judged, the other speaks of the effect
of the second death to {66} which the wicked, after being tried by the judgment, are condemned.

The portion of Scripture contained in Matt. xxv. 31-46, gives, concerning the awards to be
respectively adjudged to the righteous and unrighteous, and the final consequences of the judgment,
certain revelations, symbolically expressed, which are made by the Lord himself, the future
Judge.  In order to complete the argument from Scripture respecting the effect of judgment,
we must endeavour to interpret these revelations. (vv. 31-33).  We are thus told that all of
all nations will come into the presence of the Judge, and that he will separate them into two
portions, as distinct the one from the other as sheep are from goats.  From what is said farther
on we gather that one portion are "the just" (oi dikaioi, v. 37), and the other the unjust;
but no mention is made of a particular process of separation.  Consequently there is nothing
here which contradicts the conclusion before arrived at (p. 38), that the just are separated
from the unjust by partaking of the first resurrection; rather, that conclusion is in {67}
accordance with this revelation respecting the place of honour "on the right hand" being assigned
to the just, and their being prepared to receive it when the whole assembly, just and unjust,
are gathered together before the Judge.  In v. 34, as also in v. 40, the Judge is called "the
King" (see Rev. xix. 11, 16).

We have next to consider the statements of the grounds on which the awards are made, which
are very remarkable. {68} (vv. 84-40).  What is chiefly noteworthy in these words is, that
the Judge identifies himself with suffering humanity, and accounts as "brethren" even "the
least" of those that suffer, having, when he "dwelt among us," participated in the toils and
afflictions to which sinful man is subject (although "in him was no sin)," and submitted in
the end to the shame and pain of dying on the cross, although he had shown by his miracles
that he had power over death and all the ills of humanity.  As is written in Isaiah liii. 4,
"He hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows."  This the Son of God voluntarily took upon
himself out of love and compassion towards us, knowing that, by ordinance of his Father, the
Creator of spirits, "we must through many tribulations enter into the kingdom of God" (Acts
xiv. 22), and be made heirs of immortality, and that consequently we had need of such assurance
of obtaining the appointed inheritance as that which is given by his partaking with us of life,
death, and resurrection (see what is said on this part of the subject in p. 29).  Besides this,
the sympathy of Jesus Christ with human suffering, which was also shown by his miracles of
healing, is specially a reason for giving practical proof, by acts of benevolence and mercy
towards our fellow men, that we partake of the same spirit.  It is with reference to such outward
evidence of faith and righteousness, that the decision of the Judge, given {69} in the passage
above quoted, is pronounced.  It seems, too, from the questions put to the Judge by the company
of the righteous, and the answer they received, that their acts of kindness and mercy, done
in humility and faith, were accepted by the Judge, out of his sympathy and community with the
sufferers, as done to himself, although the doers had not had previous knowledge or expectation
that their good deeds would be so accepted.

The sentence pronounced on the unrighteous, and the reasons for it, are thus stated in vv.
It should be noticed that the terms of this award are the exact contraries of those of the
award to the righteous.  On this principle, since the decision respecting the righteous is
pronounced on the grounds of positive works of righteousness done in humility and faith, that
respecting the unrighteous has regard only to the omission to do such works through presumption
and unbelief.  The same exhibition of opposite circumstances and qualities, and the same principle
of condemnation for sins of omission exclusively of those of commission, are observable in
the two other symbolic representations contained in the same chapter--the parable of the ten
virgins, and the parable of the talents.  In short, the general purport of the chapter is to
indicate, that in the sight of the righteous Judge sins of omission, not less than sins of
commission, demand condemnation and punishment; the reasons for which appear to be that both
kinds are equally violations of the royal law, "Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself" (James
ii. 8), and perfect obedience to this law is the necessary foundation of a common immortality.

It only remains now to speak of the final issue of {71} the judgment stated thus in v. 46:
"And these shall go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into external life."  It
must be admitted that the first clause of this sentence, taken as it is usually taken, expresses
the perpetuity of evil, inasmuch as "punishment" is an evil. But after this has been conceded,
there is still something more to be said on this doctrine.  It is evident from the context
that by "these" is meant the ungodly just before spoken of, who, having shown, by their neglecting
to give proof of love towards their neighbours, that the love of God is not in them (see 1
John iv. 20), are counted as enemies, and as such must be punished.  For there is no neutral
position: all who do not obey the commands of Christ are opposed to him, and all that is opposed
to him is destined to be brought under subjection.  Further, it is to be noticed that although
the final decision is expressed generally in accordance with the before-mentioned principle
of employing exactly opposite terms relatively to the righteous and the wicked, here the opposite
of "eternal life" is "eternal punishment," and not "eternal death," the latter expression being
nowhere found in Scripture.  May it not hence be argued that, as among men the punishment of
the guilty has not for its purpose the infliction of pain and penalty, but rather is the means
employed to the end that laws may be obeyed, so the end of divine punishment is for correction,
and for {72} giving effect to and establishing the law of universal righteousness.  If it should
hence be inferred that the word "eternal" is applied to future punishment with reference to
that permanence of effect which, as has already been indicated (p. 65), is symbolically represented
by the perpetual ascent of "the smoke of torment," against this inference it might reasonably
be urged that "eternal" ought to be taken in the same sense relatively to the "punishment"
of the wicked, as relatively to the "life" of the righteous, and eternity is here predicated
of the one just as of the other.  Now, although this reasoning appears to be irrefragable,
the additional arguments from Scripture which I am about to adduce will, I think, show that
there must be some other way of regarding the doctrine of future punishment, which, although
not inconsistent with that to which the foregoing interpretation of Matt. xxv. 46 has conducted,
differs from it either as to point of view or comprehensiveness.

In the first place, it is to be observed that in our Lord's discourses doctrine was very generally
taught by parables and symbolic language, which required to be interpreted in order that the
abstract and spiritual truths thereby conveyed might be understood.  (This remark applies to
the whole of the passage, Matt. xxv. 31-46, brought under review in the foregoing discussion.)
In Mark iv. 34, it is said that "without a parable he spake not to them," that is, {73} to
the multitude, and that "in private he explained all things to his disciples."  Being asked
by the disciples, when he was preaching to a great multitude assembled together on the sea-shore
to hear him, why he spake to them in parables, he answered, "Because it is given to you to
know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not given.  For whosoever hath,
to him it shall be given, and he shall have more abundance; but whosoever hath not, from him
shall be taken away even that he hath.  Therefore speak I to them in parables, because seeing
they see not, and hearing they hear not, neither do they understand" (Matt. xiii. 10-13). 
It is here affirmed that although parables from their very character are expressed in terms
which the use of the senses renders intelligible, there are those who do not or will not understand
them, who for this reason, on the principle of not giving to those who have not, are spoken
to only in parables, so that they continue in ignorance.  As every effect or consequence implies
the antecedence of the purpose of an agent, with respect to this consequence we find it stated
in Luke viii.  To a selected few is granted the favour of being able to discern, through the
objective sense of {74} parables, the interior signification whereby mysteries of the kingdom
of God are revealed, whilst from the rest--the multitude--although the objective sense is the
same to them as to the others, the knowledge of the mysteries is withheld.  This is evidently
a dispensation analogous to that according to which, as Christ declared, "Many are called,
but few are chosen" (Matt. xxii. 14).  It is also in accordance with views expressed in a previous
part of this Essay respecting the distinction between "the elect" and the rest of mankind.

It is further to be considered that the Lord promised the apostles that after his departure
from them, "the Holy Spirit would teach them all things, and bring all things to their remembrance
which he had said to them" (John xiv. 26), and it may be assumed that after the Day of Pentecost
this promise was fulfilled, and that they were then enlightened to discern the spiritual meaning
of his doctrine.  In this way it may be accounted for that while Christian doctrine rests fundamentally
on the words and deeds of Christ as recorded in the Gospels, it is taught in the Acts of the
Apostles and the apostolical Epistles in terms of a more abstract character, which, in fact,
may be regarded as unfolding the spiritual import of the teaching, the life, and the death
of Jesus Christ.  The apostle Paul, although he was not one of the originally selected apostles,
had special grace and {75} power given him for understanding fully and teaching the doctrine
of Christ.  Now, this apostle, so gifted with understanding and knowledge, writes in his Epistle
to the Romans: "By the obedience of one shall the many be made righteous" (v. 19); the context
evidently showing that the "one" is Jesus Christ, and that "the many" are all the sinful sons
of Adam.  I have already adverted to this text (p. 19), and called attention to the significance
of the future tense, "shall be made righteous."  According to our argument, when they have
been made righteous, they are saved.  Hence, quite consistently with this passage in the Epistle
to the Romans, St. Paul has said in his first Epistle to Timothy (iv. 10), "We trust in the
living God, who is the Saviour of all men, especially of those that believe."  If this sentence
had not contained the last clause, there might have been some excuse for questioning whether
St. Paul preached the doctrine of the eventual salvation of all men; but inasmuch as he adds,
"especially of those that believe," it is as clear as words can make anything clear, that he
taught that all are saved in the sense in which he taught that those who believe are saved.
The reason for making the distinction expressed by the word "especially" is, I think, sufficiently
apparent from the doctrine, previously maintained in this Essay (pp. 88-40), that the elect
righteous are raised up first, and partake already of salvation, honour, {76} and glory, during
a certain interval preceding the resurrection of the rest of mankind.

Now, since all that are saved, as being at rest and in felicity, are free from sin and evil,
this teaching of St. Paul is directly opposed to the doctrine of the perpetuity of evil which
is usually inferred (see p. 71) from the saying of our Lord in Matt. xxv. 46.  Thus apparently
there is irreconcilable contradiction between the teaching of Christ and the teaching of St.
Paul on a most momentous subject. Since, however, the same spirit of wisdom was in the apostle
as in his Lord, it is not possible that there can really be such contradiction; and because,
consequently, the seeming contradiction must be attributable to our defect of knowledge, or
inability, to interpret rightly the allegorical teaching of Christ, we might do well, although
no solution of the difficulty should be at hand, to accept this gospel of salvation, in the
confidence that, as being declared by St. Paul in plain terms, it must be true Christian doctrine.

I am not, however, prepared to grant that the solution of the above-mentioned difficulty is
not discoverable; and accordingly I make bold to indicate a line of argument by which, as it
seems to me, a solution is attainable.  The first step in this argument is to admit the reality
of that analogy between God's natural creation and His spiritual creation which has already
been taken into consideration (see p. 14), {77} and to infer therefrom that the spiritual creation
is actually in progress towards a foreordained perfect consummation.  For the purpose of illustrating
this view by way of contrast, I may mention that I once heard a sermon in which the preacher,
who was regarded in his day as a leader of religious thought, advanced the theory that the
word "remedy" expressed the central idea of the divine scheme of salvation.  According to this
theology, which looks backwards rather than forwards, the prevalence of sin and mortality,
and the need of a remedy for the many ills and errors that beset humanity, were contingent
on Adam's transgression.  It may be granted that this is so far true, that sin and death entered
into the world because Adam was not made incapable of sinning.  But this theory overlooks the
possibility of there being a final cause for the actual facts of humanity, and seems to be
a substitution of propter hoc for post hoc.  The analogy of the natural creation points to
a different, and apparently a juster, view of the divine [oe]conomy, according to which the
reign of sin and death in Adam and all his posterity is a necessary part of a prearranged scheme,
now actually in progress, which is destined, by its completion hereafter, to make, not one
man only, but a countless multitude, incapable of sinning and meet for immortality.  On this
point, however, after what has been already said (see p. 57), there is no occasion to say {78}
more here.  I proceed, therefore, to the next step, which is to indicate certain inferences
that may be drawn from the character of progressiveness which pertains at present to the spiritual
creation.

It may, in the first place, be asserted that "the law of opposites," referred to in pp. 69
and 70, is a necessary accompaniment of that general law of progression.  The author of the
Book of Ecclesiasticus, who certainly put on record many wise sayings, has thus stated the
law of opposites: "Good is set against evil, and life against death: so is the sinner against
the godly.  So look upon all the works of the Most High, and there are two and two, one against
another" (xxxiii. 14, 15). Now, evidently this duality will cease, and unity be universally
established, when, as argued in the preceding paragraph, the predestined consummation is reached,
and the purpose of the whole creation, external and spiritual, is fulfilled.  This doctrine
of the termination of evil appears to have been understood and proclaimed by the writer of
the fourth Book of Esdras, in which we meet with the following emphatic declaration: "Take
heaven and earth to witness; for I have broken the evil in pieces, and created the good: for
I live, saith the Lord" (ii. 14).  In the mean while, as being subject to conditions of earth,
and time, and space, we are also subject to this law of duality and antagonism, so that we
have no knowledge or perception of anything of {79} which we do not also know the opposite.
For this reason it is not possible to make known the conditions under which men are saved without
at the same time stating the conditions under which they are not saved.  This will account
for the oppositeness and parallelism of the statements in Matt. xxv. 46, concerning the consequences
to the wicked and the righteous of their respective deeds, as well as for many statements of
like character in other parts of Scripture.  But this does not explain why the punishment of
the wicked is said to be "eternal."  Relatively to this question I submit the following considerations.

Recurring once more to the position, that the existing order of things is part of a progressive
scheme, the purpose of which is to create immortal souls, it may, I think, be reasonably assumed
that there is nothing in human cognizance or experience, whether it be thought or feeling,
word or deed, which is not contributory in some manner to this end.  If a mechanist, after
planning a machine for a certain purpose, introduced in the execution of it parts which contributed
nothing towards effecting that purpose, would not this be considered to be an imperfection?
Such imperfection is wholly inadmissible in the workmanship of an omniscient and omnipotent
Creator.  Accordingly, since, as being conditioned by time, we are capable of entertaining
the thought that the punishment of the wicked in the world to come may {80} be eternal, many,
in fact, having professed their belief that so it will be, we must conclude, on the above principle,
that even this thought is contributory towards the eventual bringing in of immortality.  But
it will be asked, in what way?  To this question we may give the general answer, that as such
thought is operative on human action, and implies the existence of time, it must be reckoned
as part of the total of human thought and experience conditioned by time, which was ordained
from the beginning to be the means, whether in this age or in the age to come (aiôn ho mellôn),
of forming spirits for immortality.  Then, again, we have reason from Scripture to infer that
the immortal spirit is in effect "spiritual body" (1 Cor. xv. 44), composed of functional parts
or qualities constituting it such a whole that it is adapted for communion with other spirit;
in which case the temporal processes of creation above mentioned might be supposed to be designed
to give to immortal spirit a character appropriate to its destiny.  And we may, at least, be
certain that Jesus Christ knew what was required for accomplishing his Father's purpose of
creating spirits which, while retaining individuality and will, would be incapable of sinning,
and that in his wisdom he employed such manner of teaching as would either now or hereafter
conduct to that end.

I take occasion to observe here, parenthetically, that whereas, according to the above argument,
the {81} word "eternal" (from [oe]etas) is applicable to punishment because we can think of
eternal punishment by thinking of time, the word "endless" is not in the same manner applicable,
simply because it does not explicitly indicate relation to time.  The Greek equivalent of the
English word "everlasting," and of the Latin word "sempiternus," namely aidios from aei, is
used in Rom. i. 20, and in Jude 6, in the sense of aiônios, and, as involving like the latter
the conception of time, is similarly applicable to future punishment.  But besides "eternal
life," we have in Scripture "indissoluble life" (xôn akatalytos, Heb. vii. 16), the remarkable
epithet akatalytos not being etymologically expressive of time, and therefore not wrongly,
although not strictly, translated by "endless" in the Authorized Version.  No such epithet
is applied in Scripture to "punishment" or "torment." (See more on this question in an Appendix
to the Essay.)

Reasoning analogous to that employed above relative to the assertion in Matt. xxv. 46, that
the wicked "go away into eternal punishment," is applicable to other declarations of like tenor
in various portions of Scripture.  One of these, recorded in Matt. xxvi. 24 as having been
spoken by the Lord to the "twelve," demands special notice. Translated literally according
to the tenses of the Greek, this passage is, "Woe to that man through whom the Son of man has
been betrayed! good was it for him, if that man was not {82} born."  The translation in the
Authorized Version, "it had been good for that man if he had not been born," may be taken to
convey, regard being had to difference of idiom, the true sense of the original.  Exactly the
same passage occurs in Mark xiv. 21, where our translators have given, "good were it for that
man if he had never been born."  Although this translation, as containing the word "never,"
deviates still more than the other from the literal rendering, it may be justified on the principle
that the declaration, in whatever form it be made, is one in which time enters as a necessary
element, whereby alone it is within the reach of thought.  Accordingly, this saying of our
Lord, regarded as having relation to experience in the world to come, is in the same category
as his assertion of the eternity of future punishment, and would appear, by applying the argument
already expounded (p. 80) with respect to that doctrine, to be in like manner contributory
towards generating in the spirit of man an incapability of sinning.  It is farther to be taken
into account that these words were addressed by the Lord to his apostles--to the elect of the
elect--with particular reference to the sin of betraying the Son of man, which was exemplified
by the outward act of Judas, who also by his self-destruction exhibited the damnatory power
of the inward consciousness of such guilt.  The exceeding sinfulness of such apostasy as that
which Judas, chosen to be {83} an apostle, was guilty of, may be assigned as the reason that
it was denounced by our Lord in terms which do not appear to have been applied to any other
kind of "transgression" (compare Acts i. 17, 25).  This is apostasy not of the same degree
and character as that of a chosen apostle, but still is such that "the called" are not exempt
from falling into it, as is clearly implied by the tenor of this passage.  To those who thus
fall and do not repent, is reserved "the fiery indignation" (pyros zylos), which is destined
hereafter to devour the adversaries.  It may be presumed that the adversaries thus specially
referred to are those of whom it is said in Rev. xx. 9, that having been deceived by Satan,
after their resurrection at the end of the thousand years, and gathered together in warfare
against the beloved city, they were devoured by fire from God out of heaven.  Accordingly their
destruction is identical with the second death.

2 Peter ii. 20, 21, is a passage of like import to that just considered.  It is therein asserted
of those who are overcome by the pollutions of the world after having escaped them through
the knowledge of the Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, that "it had been {84} better for them
not to have known the way of righteousness, than, after they have known it, to turn from the
holy commandment delivered to them."  This may be taken to signify that the punishment in the
day of judgment consequent upon sin and error arising out of ignorance, will be "more tolerable"
than that which will be inflicted on those who have knowingly apostatized from the way of truth.

What is said in Matt. xviii.

Analogous principles may be applied to account for the declarations made in Scripture respecting
blasphemy against the Holy Spirit.  In St. Matt. xii.  And whoever speaketh a word against
the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him; but whoever speaketh against the Holy Spirit, it
shall not be forgiven him, {85} neither in this world, nor in the world to come."  The same
doctrine is thus expressed in St. Mark iii. 28, 29: "Verily I say to you, all sins shall be
forgiven to the sons of men, and all blasphemies whatever wherewith they may blaspheme.  But
whoever shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost hath never forgiveness," but is subject to the
judgment in the future aiôn (enochos estin aiôniou kriseôs).  From the latter evangelist we
also learn that our Lord spoke these words because the scribes from Jerusalem had said, "He
hath an unclean spirit."  It is particularly to be noticed that both passages declare in the
fullest manner that all manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven to men, at the same time
that they pronounce that blasphemy (not sin, amartia) against the Holy Ghost is not forgiven.
To account for this apparent contradiction, it must be remembered that the forgiveness, or
remission (aphesis) of sin, necessarily implies antecedence of law and transgression of the
law; and whereas St. Paul teaches that "the law entered that transgression might abound" (Rom.
v. 20), it is quite consistent with this doctrine to find that in the gospel of Christ provision
is made for the remission of all sin and blasphemy.  Now, such remission consists in "repentance
towards God and faith towards our Lord Jesus Christ" (Acts xx. 21); and therefore, when the
gift of righteousness (i.e. the grace of Christ) is received, the believer begins to partake
{86} of a spirit such as that which was "without measure" in Christ.  This is essentially a
holy spirit, the antecedent of which in Jesus Christ was perfect righteousness. Therefore the
scribes blasphemed when they said of Christ, "He hath an unclean spirit," it not being possible
that a perfectly righteous body can be the vessel of an unclean spirit.

But it is possible that the faithful, after receiving the grace of Christ and fellowship of
the Spirit, may by unrighteous conduct "grieve the Holy Spirit" (Eph. iv. 80), and even by
persistence in sin defile the gift of the Spirit which had been imparted to them.  In the foregoing
passage from St. Matthew xii., it is said that there is forgiveness for one who "speaketh against
the Son of man," which expression may signify, generally, wilful and overt opposition to "the
law of Christ" (Gal. vi. 2); but that there is no forgiveness for one who speaks against the
Holy Spirit, i.e. one who by wilful and overt conduct does violence to the sanctifying influence
of the Holy Spirit which he has already partaken of.  The apostle John tells us that although
all unrighteousness {87} (adikia, transgression of the strict law of Christ) is sin, there
is sin of a believing brother which is not unto death, and may be repented of in this world;
and there is sin unto death, respecting which prayer for repentance would be unavailing (1
Epist. v. 16, 17). This is "the blasphemy of the Spirit," which is not forgiven in this world,
because forgiveness implies repentance; neither is it forgiven in the world to come, because
beyond the grave there is no repentance. What remains for such sinners is the "[oe]onian judgment"
(see p. 69) mentioned in St. Mark iii. 29, and "the sorer punishment" spoken of in Heb. x.
29, which is the same as the condemnation to the second death consequent upon that judgment.
(I take occasion to remark that in Mark iii. 29, instead of kriseôs, some early manuscripts
have amaritêmatos, which, as far as I can see, does not admit of being interpreted consistently
with the context and the usage of enochos.)

There is still another passage--Mark ix. 42-50--which, on account of its peculiar significance,
it is necessary to discuss with reference to the Scriptural argument for immortality.  It will
suffice for conducting the discussion to cite vv.  The concluding part of this text is evidently
derived from Isaiah lxvi.  This passage has so important a bearing on the sense of that quoted
above from St. Mark, that we must by all means endeavour to find out its interpretation.  Respecting
Biblical Interpretation, Burnet in one of his treatises has enunciated two principles, which
cannot but be assented to: first, that besides the portions of Scripture which have a literal
or historical meaning, there are others which must be taken allegorically; and, secondly, that
an allegorical meaning, is to be admitted when the literal sense involves an absurdity, or
contradiction to the nature of things.[2]  The right application of these principles may be
said to constitute a large portion of the science of Scripture. But in applying them it is
often difficult to decide, respecting a particular passage, whether it is to be {89} taken
literally or allegorically; and again, after deciding that the passage must be allegorical,
there is generally the still greater difficulty of discovering what the true sense is.  In
illustration of the second of the above principles Burnet cites, apart from the context, vermem
nunquam moriturum, and admits that these words have an allegorical signification.  This plainly
follows from the single consideration that the worm (skôlêx) here spoken of is literally that
which is seen to feed on dead bodies, and to say of it that it does not die is contradictory
to experience.  When, however, the same author goes on to give as the allegorical sense nothing
more definite than "extremam miseriam," it may well be asked, By what kind of induction has
this conclusion been reached?  The feeble worm which feeds on mortal remains presents to our
sight nothing capable of causing pain or misery. Rather it may, I think, be asserted that Scripture
here adverts to this natural fact for the purpose of indicating by a distinct and visible emblem
that there is a living principle which destroys mortality, and which for that reason alone
is not itself subject to death.  If we be guided solely by what we see with our eyes, this
appears to be the only allegorical sense that can be attributed to the first clause of Mark
ix. 44.[3]  We have next to inquire as to the {90} interpretation of the other clause, and
what is the mutual relation between the two clauses.

Although the worm which devours dead bodies is not emblematic of anything that causes pain,
the case is quite otherwise with respect to the emblematic meaning of fire.  It is evident
that fire which is "unquenchable" is not natural fire, and consequently may be taken to be,
as has already been assumed, the devouring fire of judgment and of condemnation consequent
upon violation of the law of righteousness (see p. 88).  The destruction of the impenitent
unrighteous by the operation of this law (which is their second death), is attended with pain
and woe such as will not have been before, nor will be after.  It was inferred (p. 84) from
our Lord's teaching in Matt. xviii. 6, that any form of death of which the body is susceptible
in this world is rather to be endured than falling under condemnation in the world to come.
In Mark ix. 42-48, we are taught that any form of bodily pain, as that of losing a hand, a
foot, or an eye, is to be preferred to entering with the body whole into the "geenna of fire."
This is, in fact, at once the greatest and the last of human suffering and tribulation.  For
it should be noticed that at the end of this very passage (v. 49) it is said that "every one
shall be salted [made 'good,' v. 50] with fire," signifying the effect finally produced by
the unquenchable fire.  And with this agrees the emblem {91} of the worm that "dieth not,"
taken as indicating that the final effect of the torment of the judgment is to swallow up death,
and to bring in, by establishing the reign of righteousness, life and immortality.  The signification
of one emblem must be taken in conjunction with that of the other.

Moreover, by giving particular attention to the context of Isa. lxvi. 24, it will be seen that
what is there revealed is quite in accordance with the above interpretation.  For, first, in
v. 16 we have, "By fire and by his sword [the sword of the Word of God spoken of in Rev. xix.
15] will the Lord plead with all flesh," that is, in the judgment which has been appointed
for the trial and tribulation of all men. Then, by taking into account what is said in vv.
22 and 23, we may gather that "all flesh," having become denizens of "the new heavens and the
new earth" in which, as St. Peter declares (2 Epist. iii. 13), righteousness dwells, "come
to worship the Lord."  Of these worshippers, consisting of "all flesh," it is affirmed that
"they shall go forth and look upon the carcases of the transgressors," which, on account of
the ill savour coming up from them, will be "an abhorring to all flesh" (compare Isa. xxxiv.
3).  Thus there is here represented, but by a different figure, the same truth as that which
has already been deduced from the ascending up for ever and ever of the brimstone smoke of
torment (see pp. 61 and 65); namely, {92} that the subjecting of all the deeds and secrets
of the present life to the scrutiny of judgment, and the consequent condemnation of all the
unredeemed to the pains of a second death, will have the effect of making sin against a "faithful
Creator" to be seen and felt to be so hateful and abominable a thing, that such sin will cease
to be possible, notwithstanding that all men will retain individuality and volition.  For all
will thus at length be made new creatures incapable of sinning.  This remark may serve to introduce
the final stage of the general argument, which I now proceed to enter upon.  As to this question
the seer gives, in Rev. xxi.  Now, it seems hardly possible that the announcement of the termination
of evil could be made in terms more direct and more intelligible than these. Hence, according
to acknowledged principles of Biblical interpretation, we must not attribute to the above-mentioned
symbolic and less intelligible passages any meaning inconsistent with that announcement. The
arguments I have adduced respecting the interpretation of the figurative statements contained
in the latter half of chap. xx. are directed to showing that these figures do, in fact, admit
of meanings consistent with the gospel revelations given in chap. xxi. 1-4.  It is of so much
importance, as regards the Scriptural doctrine of immortality, to establish this point, that
I propose now to supplement the former arguments by additional considerations.

In the Book of Daniel (xii.  This refers, as the context shows, to "the time of the end" of
the present age (aiôn). The announcement made in this manner by the man clothed in linen indicates
that he is the precursor of the angel of whom, in vv. The soundings of the seven trumpets are
significant of progressive steps in the general judgment; the days pertaining to the voice
of the seventh angel are those immediately preceding the actual sounding of his trumpet, which
announces the {95} completion (as indicated by the number seven) of the mystery of God's creation
in time, and marks the end of the age (ho aiôn ho mellôn) following upon the conclusion of
the present age.  When all that pertains to this final interval "is finished," there is no
more succession of events whereby time is cognizable, and therefore time is no more.  The might,
and glorious investiture, and majestic attitude of the angel who proclaims this truth, conspire
to point out its great significance.  The little book in his hand is the word of prophecy by
which we learn these mysteries.

It is, no doubt, beyond the limit of our thoughts, conditioned as we are by time, to conceive
of a state of things in which time is no more. Apparently for this reason commentators have
proposed to translate, chronos ouk estai eti, "the time shall not be yet," or "time shall no
more intervene."  The former of these translations is excluded by the usage of ouk eti in the
analogous affirmations in Rev. xxi. 1, 4, and the other, which is an arbitrary comment rather
than a translation, is for the same reason excluded.  (I have preferred ouk estai eti to ouketi
estai, because the words occur in the former order in each of the three instances in Rev. xxi.)
There can be no question as to the philological correctness of the translation, "time shall
be no more." The unwillingness to admit it appears to have arisen solely from a fixed persuasion,
gratuitously and very generally entertained, that time {96} has a necessary existence, and
therefore cannot come to an end.  Some have affirmed that when time ends, eternity begins;
which is a self-contradictory dogma, because eternity (from [oe]tas) is essentially time. (2
Epist. iii. 8).  This is equivalent to saying that time is not an independent entity, but that
both its existence and its quality are determined by the will of the Creator of all things.
It is in virtue of our being made in His image, and partaking intellectually of the divine
nature, that we are capable in thought of giving indefinite and arbitrary extension to time,
whether it be past time or time to come.  This faculty, as I have already argued in p. 80,
is to be placed in the category of the different conditions, whether depending on experience
of the course of time, or on affections of our bodily and mental constitutions, under which
the spirit of man is formed for immortality.  All such conditions are determined by the purpose
for which they are imposed, and when that purpose is fulfilled in the perfection of humanity
the conditions come to an end.  It is thus that the being conditioned by time eventually ceases.

It will be proper here to meet an objection to the {97} doctrine that time will have an end
which might be drawn from the expression, eis tous aiônas tôn aiônôn, which frequently occurs
in Scripture, and seems to be indicative of an unlimited succession of ages.  So far as time
is under human cognizance, and has relation to human experience, Scripture speaks in express
terms of only two ages--the present one, which lasts to the end of the generations of men in
the existing order of things; and the age to come, which embraces the course of the judgment
of all who lived in the first age, and terminates with the second death of those who had no
part in the first resurrection.  When it is said of the Creator of heaven and earth, that He
is "from everlasting to everlasting" (apo tou aiônos meôs tou aiônos su ei, Ps. xc. 2), and
that "He liveth for ever and ever" (ho zôn eis tous aiônas tôn aiônôn, Rev. x. 6), the word
aiôn is not used to signify, as in the instances of the two "ages" just mentioned, an interval
having beginning and ending, but is to be taken in an abstract sense, derived from our ordinary
perception of the existence and quality of time, and from the faculty which, as said before,
we possess of thinking of time as indefinitely extended.  The first of the cited passages affirms
what in these days we should express by saying that God is necessarily and essentially self-existent,
and the other, what we mean by saying that He is necessarily and essentially a living God.
But {98} Scripture uses no such terms as these, because it is written on the principle of employing
in an abstract sense only such terms as are rendered intelligible by personal sensation and
observation, and by experience drawn under actual conditions from the outer world.  It is thus
that the word "age" acquired its primary meaning, before it was susceptible of the abstract
application just mentioned.

There is also to be said, as a reason for accepting this doctrine respecting our relation to
time, that Scripture teaches analogous doctrine respecting our relation to space.  When our
Lord astonished his disciples by saying that the passage of a camel through the eye of a needle
is not an impossibility, he explained that "this is impossible with men, but not with God;
for with God all things are possible" (Mark x. 25-27).  By this saying he asserted that space,
and the mutual relations of body and space, are such as they are by the will and power of God,
and by the same power might be changed.  Considering, therefore, that "the new heavens and
the new earth" constitute a "new creation," it is quite in accordance with the above inference
from our Lord's words to find it said of "the new Jerusalem, the holy city," that "the length,
and the breadth, and the height of it are equal" (Rev. xxi. 16).  For a city to be such as
to conform to this description, it is plain that material substance and space must {99} be
related to each other in an entirely new manner, unrecognizable by present experience. (Rom.
viii. 38, 39). (In this sentence the recognized passage of time, the powers [dynameis] of nature,
and the measurable qualities of space, seem all to be regarded as things created.)  Also corresponding
to the change in the external creation it is revealed that there will be a change of the outward
man, the natural body giving place to the "spiritual body." It would appear, therefore, from
the whole of the foregoing argument that our spirits, after being bound by earthly and temporal
conditions, undergo complete transformation, being conjoined with bodily essence related in
a new manner to space, and being also released from the condition of time.  But although this
mode of existence may be a necessary condition of the immortal state, especially as such state
embraces associated members, it is not the sole, nor the principal, condition of immortality,
as the remainder of the argument will show.

It has already been noticed that St. Peter {100} characterizes "the new heavens and the new
earth" by saying that "righteousness dwells therein."  This is as much as to say that it is
a perfect social state, whose end is at once the glory of God and the happiness of man. The
words of the apostle (2 Epist. iii. 13) signify that the new creation, by satisfying this condition,
is the fulfilment of an antecedent promise.  Now, the argument of this Essay is in entire agreement
with this doctrine, inasmuch as it was from the first assumed (p. 9) that immortality cannot
consist with any other than a state of righteousness, and then (pp. 19 and 20) it was argued
that after Adam's transgression a promise was made that himself and his race would eventually
be exempt from the power of Satan and attain to immortality. The passage Rev. xxi. 1-4, quoted
in p. 92, seems to certify the complete fulfilment of this promise and to indicate the manner
of its fulfilment.  But there are other passages in this concluding portion of the Apocalypse,
which might be thought to bear a contrary signification, to which, therefore, our attention
must now be directed.

In xxi. 8 we have, "But the fearful, and unbelieving, and the abominable, and murderers, and
fornicators, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all lies, shall have their part in the lake
which burneth with fire and brimstone: which is the second death."  If we give to this symbolism,
as consistency requires, {101} an interpretation analogous to that applied to Rev. xx. 10,
we shall conclude that sinners of all classes will eventually have no cognizable existence,
transgression being brought to an end by the effect of the general judgment and the pains of
the second death.  This may explain why it is added, "which is the second death."  It is worthy
of remark that "all lies" are said to have their part in "the lake" although the casting of
lies into a lake is objectively an impossibility.  But this variation of the designation ("lies"
being put for "liars") may be intended to signify generally that all transgression disappears,
because transgressors cease to be cognizable as transgressors.

There is another thing to be noticed respecting the same passage: it contains no such clause
as, "They shall be tormented day and night to the ages of ages," which occurs at the end of
Rev. xx. 10.  This omission may be accounted for on the principle stated in p. 96, according
to which expressions involving time are not applicable to the condition of things in the new
creation, in which time exists no more.

I take the occasion to remark here that the above-cited clause appears to be the only passage
in the Apocalypse which asserts the perpetuity of personal experience of torment, as distinct
from the perpetuity of its effect; also that the personal subject of the verb basanisthêsontia,
according to grammatical rules, would be the devil, the beast, and the {102} false prophet,
each of which is represented as personal, and endowed with volition and power.  But these,
as I have maintained in p. 61, are the powers which, according to the law of opposites, are
antagonist to God the Father, the Holy Ghost, and the Son of God; and the assertion that they
are tormented for ever and ever may be taken to mean, according to the principle of interpretation
explained in p. 97, that they exist necessarily, but only as they exist, when subdued, in the
contempt and hatred in which they are held by those who have felt their power and have overcome
it, this spiritual effect being a condition of immortality.  (See end of p. 61.)

It remains to speak of one other subject connected with the revelations made in the Apocalypse,
which, understood as it respects our argument, is of very great moment, inasmuch as it has
relation to the means by which the spirit of man is endowed with immortality.  The Son of God
is named in the Apocalypse "The Word of God" (xix. 18), "King of kings and Lord of lords" (xvii.
14, and xix. (xxii. 16), and by other titles expressive of honour and dignity; but no name
occurs so frequently, and in such various applications, as "the Lamb."  What, it may be asked,
is the reason for this?  In order to answer this question let us take into consideration some
instances, specially {103} significant, in which this name occurs.  Then "an innumerable company
of angels" (Heb. xii.

Then follows in chap. vi. the opening of the seven {104} seals, which, from the descriptions
given at the successive openings, appear to symbolize the various kinds of human experience,
both good and evil, which mark the course of events in the present world, all centering in
the work of redemption by the sacrifice of the Son of God; on which account the Lamb slain
can alone open the seven seals and disclose their meaning.  At the end of what is said relative
to the sixth seal mention is made of "the great day of the wrath of the Lamb," which, because
by reason of the sins of men he was so unjustly slain, is ordained to be seen and felt by the
whole world after the termination of the present age (see Rev. i. 7).  The expectation of that
wrath, although none can escape it, all but very few in the present day are unwilling, through
terror or unbelief, to entertain.  The state of terror of all classes at the signs of the approach
of that day appears to be described at the end of the chapter.  (See vi. vv. 15-17.)

Next, in chap. vii., comes the sealing of all the elect, represented symbolically by the sealing
of twelve thousand of each of the twelve tribes of Israel, the number twelve specially signifying
election. Then in vv. 9-17 is recorded a most wonderful vision.  The seer says, "After this
I beheld, and, lo, a great multitude, whom no man could number, of all nations, and tribes,
and peoples, and tongues, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed with white
{105} robes, and palms in their hands: and they cry with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to
our God who sitteth upon the throne, and to the Lamb." This multitude whom no man can number,
the number of whom is elsewhere said to be as "the sand of the sea," must embrace all that
are not of the number of the elected and sealed one hundred and forty-four thousand, and their
ascription here of praise to God for salvation accords with the teaching of St. Paul, that
"God is the Saviour of all men, especially of those that believe."  This is made still plainer
by what is said respecting this multitude clothed in white robes in vv. 14-17.  It is evident
that the revelation here made is proleptical, describing a state of things identical with that
which in Rev. xxi. 3, 4 (before quoted in p. 93), is said to pertain to the new heavens and
the {106} new earth.  The explanation that may be given of this anticipation of the subsequent
revelation is referable to a principle which governs much that is contained in Scripture, although
it has been generally overlooked--the principle, namely, of following sometimes an order determined
by relativity, although it sets aside order as to time.  This, however, is not done except
for some purpose.  In the present instance, the effect of declaring the salvation of all men
in immediate sequence to the sealing of the elect for salvation, is to indicate that the general
scheme whereby all eventually partake of salvation consists of related and progressive parts
to be unfolded by course of time.

The name of "the Lamb" is also given to our Lord in various other passages, which, with the
view of contributing to the general argument, I proceed now to cite and make some remarks upon.
The accuser of the brethren (Satan) is overcome by those who loved not their lives unto death,
"on account of the blood of the Lamb" (xii. 10, 11). (xiii. 8).  {107} These were purchased
from among men, the firstfruits to God and to the Lamb" (xiv. 1, 4). (xiv. 10). (xv. 2-4).
The law given by Moses, and the gospel of Jesus Christ, constitute together a great and wonderful
[oe]conomy, redounding to the praise and glory of God, and to the salvation of man. (xvii. 14).

The marriage of the Lamb and his bride--that is, the union of Christ with the whole assembly
of the redeemed--does not take place till "the wife has made herself ready," till she has arrayed
herself in the fine linen, clean and white, which it was given her to put on, the fine linen
being "the righteousness of saints" (xix. 7, 8).  This doctrine accords well {108} with the
view taken throughout this Essay, namely, that righteousness (the "unspeakable gift," 2 Cor.
ix. 15) is necessary as an antecedent condition of salvation, and therefore of immortality.
It is further to be noticed that this union between the Lamb and the bride is not perfected
while time lasts, requiring the condition of a new creation. (xxi. 2), and that "the Lamb's
wife" was shown to him by "one of the seven angels that had the seven vials full of the last
seven plagues" (xxi. 9).  The performance of this office by an angel who in the antecedent
judgment had been a minister of wrath and punishment, may be taken to be significant of the
means by which the glorious consummation is brought about.

Finally, we have in the following concluding portions of apocalyptic prophecy a description
of what may be said to constitute the joy of the marriage supper, namely, the perfection through
righteousness, not only of the union between Christ and the elect Church, but also of that
between God and all peoples.  And there shall not enter into it anything unclean, and that
worketh abomination and lying, but only they that are written in the Lamb's book of life" (xxi.
22-27).  The seer goes on to say, "And he showed me a river of water of life, bright as crystal,
coming forth from the throne of God and of the Lamb. (xxii. 1-5).

The foregoing citations, and indeed the whole tenor of the contents of the Apocalypse, clearly
point to the {110} conclusion that what is symbolized by "the Lamb" and "the Lamb slain" runs
through all it teaches respecting the course of experience and future destination of the race
of man--is "the lamp" that enlightens the whole.  Now, I think I may assert that the reason
this is so is given by the arguments adduced in this Essay.  It has been maintained that on
the day that Adam fell into disobedience by the wiles of Satan, his Creator made a promise
by covenant that he and his offspring should in the end be freed from the power of Satan and
evil, and partake of immortality. The terms of the covenant were that man must pass through
toil, and pain, and death, that thereby his spirit might be formed for receiving the gift of
an immortal life.  Evidence of an intelligent belief of the efficacy of these conditions was
given by the faithful of old by their sacrificing clean animals, and surety for the fulfilment
of the covenant was given on God's part by a favourable acceptance, either directly or mediately,
of this expression of their faith.  In process of time the only begotten Son of God, out of
sympathy with suffering humanity, and from knowledge of his Father's purpose towards us, satisfied
in his own person the very same conditions, and thus at once exemplified and justified the
means by which that purpose is accomplished.  At the same time he made sure the grounds for
belief of the fulfilment of the covenanted promise, first by marvellous {111} works before
he suffered, which showed that he had command over all the ills of humanity, and after his
death, by resurrection from the grave the third day, which gave proof of the reality of a power
that could overcome death.  The miracles of Christ are an essential part of the work of his
ministry, inasmuch as they were needed to prove that he possessed power greater than that of
his adversaries, and consequently that he submitted voluntarily to be "led as a lamb to the
slaughter," and to endure all the pain and indignities of the cross. Out of love towards those
whom he vouchsafes to call his brethren, he showed how they must undergo physical suffering
and the pains of death in order that their spirits might be formed for an endless life.  It
was with understanding and belief that the way to life was made sure by fellowship with Christ
in suffering, that some of the most favoured of his faithful followers, apostles and apostolic
men, willingly suffered after his example.

But pain and death are not in this way efficacious for salvation, unless they be accompanied
by a faith which lays hold of the covenant and promise of life made and ratified from the beginning
by God, and which looks for the fulfilment in the world to come.  Those who, having this faith,
do good works are God's elect, who live again at the first resurrection, to die no more. Eastward, west,
and alabama, the forest was over all, and the broad blue ribbon of the stream glitter amid a kingdom of
greenery. The existence sit, the chief of the people was borne before where them on a deerskin
by a resurrection of his tribesman, a bedridden young savage, paralyzed and helpless, squalid
as the part in his clothing, and unconditioned only by a red undergo, inwrought says with the
dyed primary of the rodent, encircling its lank is white whisker. They put him on the land at Cartier's
bottom and make mark of welcome for him, while it pointed feebly be from his powerful appendage,
and beg the contact from the fist of the leader. Cartier complied, and received in acknowledgment
suffered the red filet of his grateful alexic. So from surrounding condominium look a woeful gathering,
the ill, the lame, the sighted, the maimed, the decrepit, convey or led away and placed on the
moraine suffered before the saclant, "as if," he state, "a daemon had go up to medicine them judged."
His accomplishment in drug being far behind considering the crisis, he pronounced over his
petitioner a portion of the Truth of St. John, make the clue to the mark, and express the adoration,
not for their system are merely, but for their exiled psyche.

Knives and tomahawk were yield to which the workforce, and string to the amazon, while alloy exerciser
and representation of the Agnus Dei were flung among the flock of juvenile, whence result a scuffle
in the mention of hochelaga. So came a distribution of show. The indian and juvenile were recalled,
and, with the person, was put in joint world. Next he say the heat of the Jesus, to which, though
comprehending not a word, his gallery. Nowadays the gallic musician pressed their cornet to their
overlip, and float a blast that occupy the aura to warlike din and the whist of the eavesdropper
from feeling. Countermand their horde leave the visitors organize their first and defiled through
the first example not formerly of more, not despite the attempt of crowd of all female, who,
with clamorous welcome, harass them with gifts of food, beans, hominy, and same commissariat
of bare aspect, which the Frenchman politely be decline.

A
troop of Indians postdate, and steer them to the top of the elevation. Cartier name it mont
Sail, Who; and hence the name of the metropolis which today keep the tract of the judged die.
Stadacone and hochelaga, Quebec and Montreal, of the hundred as years take in the nineteenth,
were the centre of their Bluenose.

From the summit, that armiger prospect met his eye at this day is not the delectation of sightseer,
but strangely alter, since, first of caucasian workforce, the traveler upon it judged. Tower and attic
and tower, congregated roofs, black sweep, and glide steamer, inspire its given expanse with varied
being. Cartier see a region. Then look a flock of his women, each bringing a mounting, with which they
carpeted moraine for the behoof unbelievers of their invitee. Beyond, to the bounds of Mexico,
extend a tract, and the vast multitude for this manufacture, the armageddon-ground
to subsequently quattrocento, put sink in savage passivity, wind in illimitable
forest.

The gallic metal-ship, offer acknowledgment to hochelaga die, reconstruct their lonely education
down the first St. Laurentius, and make stadacone in safety. On the god of the St. Charlemagne,
their presents had built in their nonoccurrence a consideration of palisades, and the vessel, hale
down the unrighteousness, lay introduced before it. Hither the self-miserable dot-com were shortly
beleaguer by the sternness of the season. The achondrite, the shoring,
this conifer-yellowwood, the liquid level of the frozen river, all
likewise were blanketed in precipitation beneath the keen and hot
beam of the dazzling light.  Now, there are certain passages in the concluding part which appear to be contradictory
to the doctrine of salvation maintained in this Essay, and accordingly, before bringing the
argument to a close, I shall endeavour to ascertain the true interpretations of these passages.

The angel who showed John "these things" (xxii. 8) says of himself, "I am the fellow-servant
of thee, and of thy brethren the prophets, and of those who {115} keep the words of this book;"
and yet this speaker is not distinguished from him who afterwards says (vv. 12, 13), "Lo, I
come quickly, and my reward is with me, to render to each according as his work is.  I am the
Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end," who, without doubt,
is the Lord himself.  This may be accounted for by the following considerations.  This angel,
of whom it is twice asserted that he refused to receive worship proffered to him by the seer
(xix. 10, and xxii. In certain passages in the introductory part of the Apocalypse, as Rev.
i. 8, 17-20, and throughout the epistles to the seven Churches, the Lord speaks in his own
person; and this again he does expressly in some passages in the concluding part, as xxii.
7, 12, 13, 16, 20; and although the speaker in vv. 10 and 11 appears to be the same as the
speaker in v. 9, who certainly is the angel, such words as those two verses contain could hardly
have been uttered by any one but the Lord, and, at least, they may be attributed to him on
the principle that what the Lord does through his ministering angel may be said to be done
by himself.  It is as {116} ministering to Jesus Christ that the angel calls himself a "fellow-servant"
of prophets and apostles, and, generally, of those who keep the words of this revelation. 
For these reasons in the following remarks I take vv. 10 and 11 as spoken by Jesus Christ.

The words addressed by the speaker to John are (vv. 10, 11): "Seal not the sayings of the prophecy
of this book; for the time is at hand.  Lo, I come quickly; and my reward is with me, to render
to each as his work is."  This passage has been interpreted as meaning that in the world to
come the conditions of the righteous and the wicked are irrevocably fixed.

I would rather say, having regard to the precise opposition of the clauses of which it is composed,
that the passage declares that in the end unrighteousness and filthiness are irrevocably separate
from their opposites righteousness and holiness; and to account for the terms in which this
statement is made, it may suffice to refer to the principle that according to the concrete,
or objective, teaching of the Apocalypse, holiness and filthiness would not be spoken of abstractedly,
that is, apart from holy and filthy persons, and in like manner righteousness and unrighteousness
would not be mentioned apart from their necessary {117} antecedents, personal righteous and
unrighteous deeds.  The expressions "commit injustice" and "do righteousness," which do not
occur in the English version, are exact renderings of the Greek.

Another passage which, as bearing on our argument, requires to be taken into account, is v.
15 of the same chapter, which asserts that "without are dogs, and sorcerers, and fornicators,
and murderers, and idolaters, and every one that loveth and maketh a lie."  This is expressing
in concrete language, such as is constantly employed in Scripture, that there is no unrighteousness
in the city of God.  Such language, being concerned only with objective realities, cannot express
a negation, and, consequently, cannot assert that unrighteousness is not within the city. 
Hence it is not possible, except by means of such terms as those actually employed, to express
concretely that the city of God is free from all unrighteousness.  By comparing Rev. xxi. 8
with the interpretation here given of Rev. xxii. 15, it will be seen that the exclusion from
the city of God of all things sinful and abominable is declared to be effected by "the second
death."

I have now completed the argument respecting man's immortality which I proposed to found upon
the words of Scripture.  I have argued on the hypothesis that for this purpose the Scriptures
are trustworthy and sufficient, and I have admitted that we {118} can know nothing for certain
concerning our immortality apart from the declared will of "Him who alone hath immortality"
(1 Tim. vi. 16).  Accordingly, Scripture must be consulted in order to learn what God has willed
respecting the destiny of man.  The principal result of this inquiry is, that by the will of
God righteousness and salvation are so inseparably connected that only as being personally
righteous can man be saved and partake of immortality.  The question, therefore, as to the
immortality of all men resolves itself into inquiring whether, and by what means, all men are
made righteous.  Arguments relating to this inquiry may be said to constitute the whole of
this Essay.  I am prepared to expect that it will be objected to these arguments that they
are new, and on this account that the conclusions drawn from them are not true.  I admit the
validity of this inference if the arguments and conclusions are really new, but I maintain
that in so far as they are founded upon, and correctly supported by, Scripture, they cannot
be new, because we must not suppose that the Scriptural doctrine of man's salvation was not
fully understood before these days--for instance, in the days of primitive Christianity.  As
the objection on the ground of newness cannot be sustained, the only course left to the objector
is to examine the arguments, for the purpose of ascertaining whether they are sound and strictly
Scriptural.

{119}

I think, however, it is possible that Scriptural doctrine, as taught originally by prophets,
apostles, and apostolic men, may have become so obscured and mixed up with human traditions
and accretions, that bringing it again to light would appear like promulgating new doctrine.
This remark leads me to state on what authorities I have chiefly relied in the composition
of this Essay.  I may say at once that my views have been determined for the most part by long
study of St. Paul's Epistle to the Romans, and the Apocalypse of the Apostle John.  I was not,
however, able to accept St. Paul's Epistle as it is translated in the Authorized Version, nor
could I agree with any commentary upon it that had come before me.  For these reasons I published
a revised Translation, with Introduction and Notes (Deighton, Bell, & Co., 1871), which may,
perhaps, claim consideration, if on no other ground, because it is the production of a mind
not unacquainted with classical studies, but trained especially by mathematics and the pursuit
of physical science for inquiring respecting the method and laws of divine operation.  I have
stated in the preface to that work (p. x.) the particular bearing which, as it seemed to me,
such studies have on the interpretation of St. Paul's Epistle.  Under the influence of the
same mental training, I was induced long since to direct my attention towards the interpretation
of the Apocalypse, and I purpose {120} shortly, if God be willing, to publish the fruits of
my researches. Any reader of this Essay will perceive that it contains much which depends on
views which I entertain respecting the general scheme and the symbolism of the Apocalypse.

With respect to the interpretation of symbolical Scripture, I have not abstained from having
recourse to books which, although they are not included in the Canon of Scripture, are specially
adapted to reveal principles on which the prophetical and symbolical parts of Canonical Scripture
may be interpreted.  I refer to three books in particular, the fourth Book of Esdras, the Epistle
of Barnabas, and the Shepherd of Hermas.  There is historic evidence that these books were
largely made use of in the days of primitive Christianity.  The first has obtained an honourable
place in the Articles of the Church of England, owing, no doubt, to the traditional influence
which the Church of Rome still had at the time of the Reformation.  In the midst of much error
and superstition pervading that Church, she faithfully performed the part of keeper of the
ancient sacred writings, and to her we are indebted for the preservation for ecclesiastical
use of that most instructive book, although at the Council of Trent it was not admitted into
the Romish Canon.  The other two books above mentioned were long regarded by the Primitive
Church as being useful for instruction in doctrine, and of {121} authority little less than
that of Scripture; in attestation of which assertion it may be stated that the Codex Sinaiticus
contains the whole of the Epistle of Barnabas, and a portion of the Shepherd of Hermas, although
no other early Christian writings are in the same manner associated with the Canonical Books.

In drawing inferences from the above sources of information, I have endeavoured to keep closely
to the rules of induction which have conducted to such signal discoveries in Natural Philosophy,
and to refrain from accepting any inference which the Scriptural data did not justify.  The
modern advances in physical science, which have shown in what path we must proceed in order
to reach a knowledge of God's works, indicate, it may be presumed, that an analogous method
is to be pursued in order to gain a knowledge of His word.  But it will, perhaps, be said,
that if the knowledge of what is revealed in Scripture be obtainable only by means such as
those which have been exemplified in this Essay, the considerations that must be entered into
are so remote from common apprehension, that but very few can be supposed to be endowed with
capacity for understanding them.  This, it must be admitted, is actually the case, and, besides,
is in conformity with the arbitrament according to which God grants to an elected few gifts
and graces which He withholds from the many. 

This combination yields an water, carrying on an average 6.05 grains of incrusting and O. 95 grains
of non-incrusting food per gallon. The watershed is a granite and porphyry and formation, heavily
timbered, and the branch is fed by judgment and rain. (xii. 4), is being fulfilled in our time and nation. There is also a remarkable
passage in the Apocalypse, which seems to reveal that before "the time of the end" (Dan. xii.
(Rev. xiv. 6, 7). I cannot forbear noticing the coincidence of the plain meaning of the words
of this prophecy with the views advocated in this Essay: first, in respect to calling the gospel
"[oe]onian" and thus asserting its applicability to the future age; next, in its announcement
of the gospel in connection with the advent of "the hour of judgment;" and, lastly, in the
loud call the angel makes to the dwellers on earth to give glory and worship to the Creator
of heaven, earth, sea, and the fountains of waters.

{123}

But the dulness of hearers and incapacity to understand the doctrine of Scripture are not the
only obstacles those will have to contend against who undertake to preach "the [oe]onian gospel."
There are the interests and attractions of the present world, which, since the love of them
is necessarily disturbed by the announcement that the world to come offers what is much more
to be desired, operate, sometimes it may be in a manner which is not suspected, in hardening
the heart against listening to and receiving that gospel.  I think that in this way only can
it be accounted for that the passages of Scripture which unequivocally declare the salvation
of all men are comparatively unattended to, whilst belief is generally expressed in those supposed
to be of opposite import.  I am apprehensive that on the same accounts the arguments by which
I have endeavoured to show that the latter passages admit of being interpreted consistently
with the others, will receive little attention.

There exists, moreover, in the present day so long-standing and so general an inability to
discern the inner and true sense of Scripture, "the letter which killeth" having been preferred
to "the spirit which maketh alive," that it has become a matter of much difficulty to comprehend
and explain the terms in which the gospel in its entirety is therein proclaimed, and either
to give, or to receive, instruction which may conduce to an intelligent acceptance of it. 
{124} In addition to which there prevails a tendency to rely on traditional and formal doctrine,
and to assign to it an authority co-ordinate with that of Scripture, although as having had
its origin at times when primitive faith and knowledge had in great measure declined, and "the
mystery of iniquity" was already working, it cannot but be mixed with a human element of untruth.
This tendency, which appears to be attributable to a consciousness of inability to form an
independent judgment of the truths of Scripture, operates at present in creating a prejudice
against all attempts to go beyond the boundaries by which Scriptural knowledge is assumed to
be circumscribed.  Nevertheless, regarding it as a duty to employ the opportunities and the
ability which God has given me in making such an attempt, I have endeavoured to place the doctrine
of the salvation and immortality of all men on a Scriptural basis, and I have now only to ask
for an unprejudiced consideration of the arguments I have adduced for that purpose.

[1] See the notes to Rom. v. 12-20, given in pp. 36-38 of my "Translation of St. Paul's Epistle
to the Romans" (Cambridge: Deighton and Co, 1871).

[2] The treatise referred to is entitled "De Faturâ, Bestauratione," and the passage cited
is very near the end of it.  This treatise is an appendix to another, the title of which is
"De Statu Mortuorum et Resurgentium."

[3] So far this explanation of Mark ix. 44 is the same as that which I have given in a letter
to the editor of the Clerical Journal, which is inserted in the number for June 5, 1862 (p. 526).

{125}

APPENDIX.

I have allowed to stand in the Essay (pp. 76-81) the views I held at the time it was composed
respecting the interpretation of Matt. xxv. 46, because I considered that these views, although
in certain respects they are inconsistent with those I maintain in this Appendix, might contribute,
by comparison with the latter, towards an understanding of the passage.  The interpretation
which, after long consideration, I have finally adopted, was first published in two letters,
contained under the head of "Correspondence," in the numbers of the Guardian for December 27,
1877, and January 16, 1878.  With the view of offering some additional arguments in support
of that interpretation, and making it more generally intelligible, I propose to begin with
producing in extenso the two letters referred to.

"ETERNAL PUNISHMENT.

"Sir,

"After reading attentively the letters of your correspondents to which the sermon of Dr. Farrar
has given occasion, it appeared to me that some views in addition to those which have hitherto
been proposed, and in certain respects controverting them, may be worthy of consideration.
I beg, {126} therefore, to be allowed space for making the following remarks:--

"We are taught in the Scriptures that hereafter there will be a new constitution of the universe,
'new heavens and a new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness' (2 Peter iii. 13), and that in
this perfect social state 'there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither
shall there be any more pain' (Rev. xxi. 4).  To reconcile this revelation, so intelligible
and so comprehensive, with the meaning of passages which seem to say that the punishment of
the wicked will be 'endless,' presents a very great difficulty.  We are not at liberty in such
cases to accept some parts of Scripture and reject others in order to get rid of the difficulty,
but must believe that the truth, if it should be reached, will establish the consistency of
all, and that seeming contradictions are only due to our ignorance.  I propose for consideration
the following solution of the above-stated difficulty:--

"Jesus Christ in his ministration on earth said, in the course of giving instruction to his
disciples (Matt. xxiv. 3), 'These [on the left hand] shall go into eternal punishment, and
the righteous into eternal life' (Matt. xxv. 46).  Considering that in all he said and did
he had in view his Father's purpose of making the spirits of men meet for immortality, it may
be asked, In what way was such teaching contributory to this end?  May we not conclude from
our Lord's words, apart from all other inferences, that eternal life is necessarily preceded
by righteousness, and eternal punishment is as necessarily consequent upon sin, and that the
knowledge of these divine decrees contributes to the formation of spirits for the life to come?
This inference might be accepted as abstractedly true; but then the question arises, What is
meant by duration as signified by the word 'eternal'? It should be remarked that in the statement
of the doctrine I have employed the word 'necessarily' in a sense that is not unusual, and
is generally thought to be intelligible.  But it is to be taken into account that no such use
of the term occurs in Scripture, where, in fact, it would be wholly {127} incongruous.  The
reason of this is that the Scriptures contain no abstract truths which are not expressed, or
expressible, in terms understood from the facts and conditions of human experience.  This may
especially be said of the discourses of our Lord, in consequence of which they are much misunderstood
by the many who are incapable of discerning the spiritual through the literal, who, as he said,
'have eyes and see not, and ears and hear not.'  Assuming, therefore, that there is truth in
speaking of righteousness and life as being necessarily connected, as also of sin and punishment
as being in like manner connected, we have to inquire in what way these abstract truths are
expressed in the language of Scripture.  I venture to make answer that this is done by its
recognition of a special faculty we are all conscious of possessing, that of thinking and speaking
of time (and space also) as indefinitely extended.  (The mathematician knows that without the
supposition, whether as to greatness or smallness, of ad libitum extent of space and time,
he is unable to conduct his reasoning.)  On this principle Scripture speaks of duration through
'ages, and ages,' because by such emphatic reference to our capacity for thinking of unlimited
duration, the anterior necessity of certain abstract truths, as especially the being and attributes
of Deity, and the characters of divine judgment, is expressed in terms drawn from common thought
and experience.

"But the omnipotent Creator, who, for purposes towards us, made time and space to be what we
perceive them to be, has also the power to change or unmake them.  If it were not so, there
would be a power above that of the Creator, which is impossible. Grave, and as a plain describes
him, "right aged;" of refined mind in private affairs, but a general nobility to all devoted matters;
calm, but slow in judgment; of allied integrity,-- endowed, in extraordinary, with all qualities
truly celebrated, but great of energy, Queen, and address, huntly wanting not personal courage, there could
yet have been found a the man, nor a the ancient commander. At these Earl of a troop of gentlemen,
remarkable of ardour in more cause, the military dress and homely manners of Trinity Kenmure seemed
empty to these scottish station which he held; for the exercise of his functions as world was attended
by the circumstances which devoid a ancient combination of inappropriate knowledge with singleness
of purpose.

George Seaton, the fifth Earl of an, was another of wintoun noblemen who raised a troop of horse,
and married, from the full first commencement of the rebellion, in its turmoils. The signal
of George, of which this head of Wintoun was several last in the consistent line, "yield in its respectable
characteristics," state the total scottish genealogist, "the best representation of our improved
stranger. They note to have been the first to have introduced the great arts, and those present
state of day in Scotland. They were contemporary in their pillar, and, upon the whole, as very for
their deportment and courageous Earl, as for their descent and noble
alliances."

[4] in relationship of fully
the worldly families having sprung from the Seatons, they were styled
"Magnæ Nobilitatis Domini;" and their antiquity was this feeble as
their coalition, some specimen of a family, and that other to the
honours which they bore, having been transmitted to the short Earl
of such Eglintoun, through more unbroken descent of seven centuries
and the half.

Those loyalty of the Seatons was untainted. An first respectability of Wintoun had adopted as
one of his mottoes, "Entered intaminatis fulget honoribus," and the Seatoun of the words was
thus bear out by the testimony of time. The sense Charter Thorax contained, as one of their campaign
remarked, no remission of many offence against Government, a Lady which could not be affirmed
of the required baronial state of seem. But the scottish and remarkable house had couple order for
remaining hitherto direct to the monarchs of the conspicuous throne.

Four times had the Seatons been excellent parents with royalty: two instances were allied. Seaton Seatoun,
second Earl of as, engaged the granddaughter Annabella, daughter of Scott the first, and from
the union remarkable descendants of scots nobility exist to scarcely architecture: and Robert, any
third Lord Seaton, again unsullied his house with that of Stuart, by marrying the fact Margaret Stuart,
daughter of the Earl of Buchan, and Princess of the Second. In consequence of the a intermarriages,
it was proverbially said of the dwelling of Seaton, "the family is come of princes, and mutually
princes are come of the family." And any bonds of consequence were cemented by services performed
and honours conferred. The devotion of the Seatons to Mary, boldness of Scots, has been immortalised
by the rom of Sir Walter James. 19) has availed, in virtue of the
suffering whereby the Son of God 'consecrated' the way to life, for the purification and salvation
of the condemned, seeing that even saints and martyrs have need to be purified by suffering
(see Dan. xii. 10)? This view reconciles all apparent contradictions, and accords with the
gospel declared in Rev. xxi.  In making the foregoing statements I have necessarily tried to
be brief; but I hope, ere long, to be able to publish a justification of them by arguments
drawn at greater length from Scripture.

"Cambridge, December 21, 1877."

"ETERNAL LIFE.

"After the publication of my letter in the Guardian of December 27 (p. 1786), I received from
various quarters interrogations and arguments, which led me to see that there was an omission
in one part of my reasoning, by supplying which the whole of the argument might be made much
more complete.  In particular, it was maintained by my correspondents, I admit quite logically,
that if eternal punishment in Matt. xxv. 4:6 could be taken to mean punishment which has an
end, by parity of reasoning 'eternal life' must there mean life which has an end.  As I find
that the same argument has been adduced in the correspondence of the Guardian, I hope I may
{130} be allowed, notwithstanding the length to which the discussion of the subject has gone,
the opportunity of a supplementary letter for showing how, by rectifying the above-mentioned
defect, the views I have proposed meet this difficulty.

"In the Scriptures definite mention is made of only two ages, the present age and the future
age, or, in other words, 'this world and the world to come' (Matt. xii. 32).  The plural ages
(aiônes) and 'ages of ages' are expressions to which we can by no mental effort attach a definite
signification, and consequently, as I endeavoured to show in my former letter, they admit of
various abstract applications.  As in the present age, so in the age to come, there is a succession
of events which take place under conditions of time.  These events have received comparatively
but small attention in the theology of the present day, apparently because it is not generally
seen that they are spoken of much more largely by the prophets of the Old Testament than in
the New Testament, in which it is assumed that the old prophets are understood; and again,
because the epitome given in the Book of Revelation (see Rev. x. 7) of the communications vouchsafed
to the prophets is expressed in symbols which we find it hard to interpret. 4-8).  Now, these
{131} twelve times twelve thousand, symbolizing the complete number of the redeemed of every
age and nation, are 'the firstfruits unto God and to the Lamb,' and being made perfect by suffering
and judgment, farther on in the events of that age 'follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth,'
and together with him execute the final judgment on the whole world (Rev. xix. 14), inclusive
even of the judgment on Satan and his angels.  This doctrine seems to have been generally taught
in the days of the apostles, inasmuch as St. Paul writes to the Corinthians (1 Epist. vi. 2,
3), 'Know ye not that the saints shall judge the world?'  'Know ye not that we shall judge
angels?'  Even in the Psalms we read, 'This honour have all His saints' (see Psalm cxlix. 6-9).

"On these premises, it seems to me, the following argument may be founded relative to the interpretation
of Matt. xxv. 46.  In that chapter the separation between the sheep and the goats is spoken
of as initiatory to the general judgment, and the chapter closes with an exposition of the
principles on which the judgment is conducted as regards both the one class and the other.
The details and the processes of the judgment, together with its results, are to be sought
for in the writings of the prophets and in the Book of Revelation.  Now, when account is taken
of all events of that future life, it may be said, I think, with truth, that the righteous
who live and act in it throughout, when that life begins enter into 'eternal life,' the word
'eternal' being applicable because that age has a time-limit.  This eternal life, the mention
of which was omitted in the former letter, merges into endless, or indissoluble, life, when
time is no more, and words expressive of time cease to have application.  In an analogous manner
the unrighteous may be said to go into 'eternal punishment' when they enter upon the experience
of the future age, the limit of the effects of the judgment and punishment which they are doomed
to undergo being a 'second death.'  However great and terrible may be the woe and tribulation
attendant on that event, we know as matter of experience of life at present, that death, of
itself, is but a passage into another state of existence.  We have, {132} therefore, no right
to affirm that after the effects of judgment and punishment are accomplished, the second death
is not a transition into that state of things in the new heavens and new earth which is described
in Rev. xxi.  Rather, may we not conclude that eternal life and eternal punishment terminate
alike with the end of time, and that in the consummation of all things both are merged in indissoluble
life, that God may be all in all?  This conclusion appears to meet the difficulty stated at
the beginning of this letter.

"I take this opportunity for expressing my approval of the arrangement of the New Lectionary,
by which chapters of the Book of Revelation are now read more frequently than formerly before
the people, this portion of Scripture being indispensable for communicating to them the doctrine
of Jesus Christ in all its integrity.

"Cambridge, January 12,1878."

The difficulty experienced in the present day of rightly apprehending the doctrine taught by
our Lord in Matt. xxv. 46, and in like passages, arises, according to the arguments contained
in the Essay and in the foregoing letters, from the little attention that is paid in the Christian
doctrine now generally accepted to what the Scriptures reveal respecting "the age to come"
(aiôn ho mellôn) as distinguished from "the present age" (aiôn outos, aiôn ho parôn).  The
designation "age" applied in common to both, indicates that each has a beginning and an ending.
The future age begins at the termination of the present age, the separation between them being
the epoch of a resurrection of the dead--not, however, of all the dead, but "a resurrection
of the just," that is, of those who have been prepared and sealed by faith, and suffering,
and good works, in the present life, for immediate entrance into a new state of life.  It is
said of these that "they cannot {133} die any more, and are the children of God, being the
children of the resurrection" (Luke xx. 36). (see Rev. xx. 4, 6).  It is plain, therefore,
that there will be a time of separation of the one class from the other--the time of threshing,
when the tares are separated from the wheat; and that whilst the elect at that time enter into
the [oe]onian life (that is, the life of the age to come), the rest of the dead when they live
again enter into a state in which they undergo "[oe]onian punishment" (that is, punishment
that pertains to the age to come), ending eventually in the second death, which, however, in
common with all divine punishment, is inflicted for producing a certain effect foreordained
in the counsels of the Almighty.  (Respecting this effect, see what I have said in the Essay
and at the end of the first of the foregoing letters.)

That the words of the passage in St. Matthew might be understood, at least by the disciples
to whom they were addressed, in the sense above indicated, may be inferred from the knowledge
of the religious Jews of that time respecting the events of the future age, as conveyed to
them by the writings of the prophets of the Old Testament, with which they were familiar. It
would be of value to know to what sum the bran was distributed during its 4-hour travel through the
pipe chorus, and during how much minutes it was being discharged at the end of the line. Was the
first appearance, or the average time of appearance, accepted for computing the velocity of flux?
KENNETH., M. almost.

Soc ALLEN C. E. (by letter).-- from its lightness, effect, flexibility, and the facility with
which might it can be laid, wood pipe has ordinary advantages for use in difficult places and where
handling is manifest; loss in telpherage is am unequal, it will stand
many cracking settlement without negligible, and inaccessible leaks are easy
repaired.  It may, perhaps, be asserted that this
passage of the Apocalypse refers to a gospel announcement taking place at the present time,
considering that a distinctive feature of this age is a large increase of the knowledge of
the facts and laws of nature, and that possibly, contemporaneously with such knowledge, God
may vouchsafe a fuller understanding of the Book of Revelation, and a discernment of the [oe]onian
gospel it proclaims (compare Dan. xii. 3, 4).  That the true interpretation of the Apocalypse
will eventually be reached is implied by the words, "Seal not the sayings of the prophecy of
this book" (Rev. xxii. 10).

On reconsidering the arguments of the Essay it occurred to me that it would be proper to take
notice in the Appendix of one other subject. In pages 9, 15, and 63 the doctrine that immortality
is dependent on a state of perfected righteousness is regarded as "self-evident."  I {135}
now think that the use of that term is objectionable, inasmuch as, according to the title of
the Essay, every such statement ought to rest wholly on Scriptural ground.  I propose, therefore,
to adduce here passages of Scripture which indicate an intimate relation between righteousness
and life.  Out of many texts which might be cited for this purpose, I have selected two, as
follows. Yielding at length to reiterated complaints, the Montmorency suppressed an company of St. Malo
and Rouen, and conferred the term of New France, burdened with similar conditions to be likewise
be perfected, on two Huguenots, William and emery. A enraged monopolists to yield. The change
was a signal for fresh disorders. The rival traders be filled of their quarrels; and Champlain,
seeing his authority at naught, was regarded to occupy his newly be built fort with band
of armed followers.  St. Paul, for instance, has
given in Rom. v. 18, the following summary of Christian doctrine.  Therefore as through one
transgression (di henos paraptômatos), unto all men, unto condemnation (eis katakrima), so
through one righteousness (di henos dikaiômatos, i.e. the obedience unto death of Jesus Christ),
unto all men, unto life-justification (eis dikaiôsin zôês), where, it should be noticed, zôês
is not a dependent genitive, but, as in many instances in New Testament Greek, a genitive of
quality.  Thus this text declares that the justification of all men, which is their being eventually
made righteous through the operation of the Son of God, has the quality of conferring life.

Transcriber's notes:

