Thursday, Dec, 3rd.--At daylight we discovered a small vessel at anchor near the head of the
harbour of the Island of Condore, with French colours, and awnings and other indications of
her being a vessel of war. Sent a boat in to examine water. Boat returned at 1 P.M. with the
commander of the vessel--a French vessel of war--and I was quite surprised to learn that we
had arrived in civilized waters, and that the Island of Condore was in the possession of the
French. There was a small garrison of 50 or 60 at the village on the east side. There had been
a recent revolt of the natives, the French officers said; and for this reason there were few
vegetables or fruits to be had, and most of the natives had betaken themselves to the mountains.
Got underway and ran into the harbour, the Frenchman politely showing me the way, and anchored
in nine fathoms. Got a spring out, so as to present our port broadside to any enemy that might
be disposed to violate neutrality, and, to save coal, permitted all the fires to go out. A
couple of ships, running before the wind, passed in sight during the day--the ships prudently
running a little out of the track to sight the island in this uncertain sea.

Friday, December 4th.--The harbour is picturesque, with mountains rising abruptly from the
water to the height of 1800 feet, clothed with dense verdure from water's edge to top, many
of the trees being of large size. The soil is very rich, but there is little cultivated land,
the mountain-sides being too steep. The French have constructed two or three huts on the northern
shore, and a couple of rude jetties, or landing places of loose stone. Landed on one of these
to get sight for the chronometers. Found a Frenchman overseeing three or four Chinese seamen
chopping wood and thatching a hut. The French make slaves, both here and on the mainland, of
prisoners of war. The island is under the government of an Enseign de Vaisseau.

The Commander of the Junk is a Midshipman, so that we have gotten among high dignitaries. Landed
at noon, at an inviting little sand-beach on the south shore, to get latitude--8° 39' 10".
Found the ruined hut of a Frenchman, with his grave close by, and his name carved on the bark
of a tree on the beach. A picturesque burial spot, amid eternal shades, with the lullaby of
the ocean.

Saturday, December 5th.--Amused this morning, watching some sedate old baboons sitting on the
sand-beach opposite, and apparently observing the ship very attentively. Large numbers of these
caricatures of humanity inhabit these islands; yesterday, when a boat landed, great numbers
of young ones were seen gamboling about; but one of the old ones having called out to them,
they soon all disappeared in the thick wood. Returned the visit of the Frenchman. He is on
board a miserable country craft, of about 40 tons burthen. Sent a boat to the village on the
east side to call on the Governor, and see if we could get some fruit and vegetables. Boat
returned at nightfall. The village is a mere military port, the native inhabitants, except
a few prisoners or slaves, having fled to the mountains, and no supplies were to be had. The
Governor's residence is a thatched hut, as are all the other houses, with no industry or taste
displayed in their structure. A few patches of cultivation were visible--rice, fruit, and cotton--the
latter looking rather unpromising. The destroyers of their rice were the monkeys. There are
several varieties of fine large pigeons here, and in abundance. They are beautiful in feather
and fat. A common variety has a green back and golden tail. This must be a paradise for monkeys,
so abundant is their food in the forests, almost every tree bearing a fruit or nut of some
sort. These French officers had heard and believed that we sunk or burned every ship we took,
with all on board, and received the Paymaster rather coolly at first, but became quite cordial
when they observed we were Christians, and did not commit this wholesale murder.

Sunday, December 6th.--Another lonely Sabbath-day--lonely, though in the midst of one hundred
and fifty people. Away, away from home, by half the circumference of the globe! One of the
most frequent and unpleasant of my experiences since I entered the China Sea, is an oppressive
sense of great distance from home, and the utter strangeness of everything around me, almost
as though I had entered another planet.

Monday, December 7th.--The commander of the island, M. Bizot, visited me to-day. He is an agreeable
and intelligent young man of twenty-four or five years of age, and appeared very friendly and
expressed sympathy for our cause. His position is a flattering one for a man of his age and
rank, and he seems to have entered upon his duties with pride and zeal. He brought me a chart
of the island, surveyed last year. The French have been in possession two years and a half.
He spoke of my having hoisted the English flag upon first anchoring, and seemed surprised that
we had not heard of the possession of the island by the French, which, he said, had been notified
to all the Powers. I pleasantly told him that I had had some notion of taking possession of
it myself, but that I had found the French ahead of me. He brought down for me the welcome
present of a pig and some little fruit, and told me he had a potato patch on shore, which he
would share with me. Fresh provisions of all kinds are so scarce here that I fear my generous
friend has been robbing himself. He told me that he had one hundred and forty forçats--slave-prisoners
--at the village, whom he meant to put to good use in constructing store and dwelling-houses,
&c. The hunters brought on board to-day an East India bat, or vampire, measuring two feet ten
inches from tip to tip of wing. Its head resembled that of a dog or wolf more than any other
animal, its teeth being very sharp and strong. Among the curiosities of the island is a locust,
that has a whistle almost as loud as that of a railroad.

Tuesday, Dec. 8th.--The Commander of the Junk came on board, and brought me a couple of fowls.
The apes here are very large, and quite fierce. They will not run from you, but come around
you, and grin and chatter at you. An officer shot one, and he died like a human being, throwing
his hands over his wound and uttering piercing cries! This monkey was afterwards buried in
the sand by his comrades, though the interment was not quite complete when the operators were
interrupted. This is the reason why nobody ever sees a dead monkey, any more, as the Singhalese
proverb says, than a white crow or a straight cocoa-nut tree. A curious vegetable product was
brought on board to-day, it being to all appearance a finely-made Havana cigar. The fibre is
woody, covered with a smooth bark, and the colour of dark tobacco. It comes from the tree perfect
in shape, and is not a seed-pod or fruit. One is at a loss to conceive its use or functions.
The illusion caused by its appearance is perfect. We had no success with the sieve, the fish
here being all jumpers, and jumping out of the net.

Wednesday, Dec. 9th.--The excessive heat and moisture of the climate here is very enervating.
We begin to feel its effects already. It weighs upon us like a vapour-bath, and we feel indisposed
to take the least exercise; a walk on shore of half a mile or so quite overcomes us.

Thursday, Dec. 10th.--At about 2.30 P.M. a French steamer passed the Gap, going to the southward.
Afterwards informed by the Commander that it was the mail steamer from Saigon, for Singapore.
The Saigon people are expecting us there.

Friday, Dec. 11th.--In the afternoon the Commander and Surgeon came on board, bringing us a
bullock! and some vegetables.

Sunday, Dec. 13th.--The crew dined off the Commander's bullock to-day, being the first meal
of fresh meat since leaving Simon's Town, nearly three months ago; and yet we have no one on
the sick list! Causes--good water, temperance, strict government, and, as a consequence, a
reasonable degree of contentment, and moderate and constant employment. The crew has had several
runs on shore, too, without the possibility of getting drunk. A present of cocoa-nuts this
morning from the Commander. This young Frenchman is very attentive to us.

Monday, Dec. 14th.--To-day we applied the principle of the coffer-dam to the replacement of
the copper around our delivery or blow-pipe, some three feet below water. The operation proved
quite simple and easy of accomplishment. Getting ready for sea. The news of our "whereabouts"
probably reached Singapore on the evening of Saturday, and it is only two days from Singapore
here, for a fast steamer; and so, whilst the enemy, should there be one at Singapore, is coming
hitherward, we must be going thitherward to seek coal and provisions.

Tuesday, Dec. 15th.--At daylight got under way, under sail, and stood out of the harbour--lighting
and banking the fires. On account of our proximity to the shore, and the very light breeze,
we had barely room to pass the point--not more than a ship's length to spare, in case we had
been obliged to let go our anchor. I felt quite nervous for a few minutes, but held on, and
we caught a light breeze that soon sent us ahead out of danger.

Well, we are on the sea once more, with our head turned westward, or homeward. Shall we ever
reach that dear home which we left three years ago, and which we have yearned after so frequently
since? Will it be battle, or shipwreck, or both, or neither? And when we reach the North Atlantic,
will it still be war, or peace? When will the demon-like passions of the North be stilled?
These are solemn and interesting questions for us, and an all-wise Providence has kindly hidden
the answers behind the curtain of Fate. A lengthened cruise would not be politic in these warm
seas. The homeward trade of the enemy is now quite small--reduced probably to twenty or thirty
ships per year; and these may easily evade us by taking the different passages to the Indian
Ocean, of which there are so many, and so widely separated. The foreign coasting trade (as
between one port in China and another, and the trade to and from Calcutta and to and from Australia),
besides facilities for escape, are almost beyond our reach--at least we could only ransom the
ship, the cargoes being all neutral--that is to say, such of them as get cargoes, now not many.
And then there is no cruising or chasing to be done here successfully, or with safety to oneself,
without plenty of coal; and we can only rely upon coaling once in three months at some English
port. At the other ports there would probably be combinations made against us, through the
influence of the Yankee Consuls. So I will try my luck around the Cape of Good Hope once more;
then to the coast of Borneo; and thence perhaps to Barbadoes, for coal; and thence---? If the
war be not ended, my ship will need to go into dock, to have much of her copper replaced, now
nearly destroyed by such constant cruising, and to have her boilers overhauled and repaired;
and this can only be properly done in Europe. Our young officers, who had had so agreeable
a change from the cramped ship to the shores and forests of Condore, with their guns and their
books, had become so attached to the island that they left it with some regret.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

In the East--Aor--Marine nomads--Suspicious--At Singapore--A busy city--Chinese merchants--Whampoa
and Co.--Calculating machines--Under way--The Martaban of Maulmain--Transformation--The Texan
Star--Evasive--Getting at the truth.--Sonora--To the Cape.

The Alabama was now steering for Singapore, and for three or four days kept her course without
the occurrence of anything particularly noteworthy. On the 19th December she anchored for a
time in the bay on the south-east side of the island of Aor, with its lofty hills clothed with
green to their summits, and its little sandhills and groves of cocoa-nut trees. The island
is unclaimed by any European nation.

Sunday, Dec, 20th.--To-day being Sunday, and the weather being still thick, and blowing, I
have resolved to remain until to-morrow before making the run for Singapore. Weather improved
this morning, however, and the barometer going up. Several islands visible that were hid from
us yesterday. Pulo Aor looking beautiful and picturesque. Some of the natives on board with
their scant stores of fowls, eggs, and cocoa-nuts. They are larger than the natives of Condore,
and stouter, and more developed, but with countenances not very prepossessing. The Governor,
a rough-looking, middle-aged fellow, above the common height, pulled out some greasy papers,
the recommendations of former visitors, and desired that I also would give him one, which I
declined, as I knew nothing about him. Their canoes are light and graceful, and occasionally
they present quite a picture with their gaily-dressed or half-dressed occupants. We heard their
tom-toms and banjoes last night as evening set in, but a music much sweeter to our ears was
a chorus from some frogs, with notes somewhat finer than their relatives on our side of the
earth. These islanders are nothing more than marine nomads, that lead an idle, vagabond life,
intermixed with a good deal of roguery. They have a fine physique, as might be supposed from
their open-air mode of life, in which they have plenty of healthful exercise without being
overworked, as Mother Nature feeds them spontaneously, and they require little more clothing
than they brought into the world with them.

In the afternoon some of the officers visited the shore, and were hospitably received. There
were from ninety to one hundred natives, men, women, and children, visible, and there were
probably as many more on the other side of the island, as they have a S.W. monsoon village
there. They seemed to have plenty of fowls, and they are very expert fishermen. They were gambling--such
a thing as labour being out of the question. The island seems originally to have been a solid
mass of rock, the rocky walls of the mountains peeping out in many places from the midst of
the dense forest, and gradually as time and the elements disintegrated portions of it, plants
and trees took root, until the island became what it is now, a mass of luxuriant vegetation.
There were some fine large boats carefully hauled up on the beach, quite large enough for piratical
purposes, for which they were probably intended, and some swivels were lying near the chief
man's door. The cocoa-nut tree has climbed the mountain sides, and waves its feathery foliage
from the crests of the ridges. It is food, and cordage, and light to the natives. Several delightful
little valleys presented themselves, upon which, and on the adjacent steeps or the mountains,
were thatched huts. Probably to the mere animal part of our nature, the life that these people
lead is happier than any other; wants few and easily supplied, labour not too pressing, and
the simple tastes satisfied with such pleasures as they find.

Rain, rain, in the afternoon. Most of the moisture is deposited on the mountain-tops, and the
clouds sweep over it. And now for Singapore, God willing.

Monday, Dec. 21st--At 3.30 A.M. we got under way, under steam and sail, and steered S. by E.
32 1/2 miles, South 18 miles, and S. by W. 14 miles; and the weather setting in very thick,
with heavy rain, obscuring all things, we were obliged to come to in 10 1/2 fathoms, with the
north point of Bintang island bearing, and within 11 miles by computation of the Pedra Branca
lighthouse. We have thus to war against the weather as well as our enemies. Soon after daylight
we made a ship-rigged steamer on our port bow, bound also for Singapore. She anchored near
us astern. It clearing a little at noon, we got hold of the marks and got under way, and taking
a Malay pilot, anchored off Singapore at 5.30 P.M.

Tuesday, Dec. 22d.--At 9.30 A.M. the pilot came on board, and we ran up into New Harbour alongside
of the coaling depôt, and commenced coaling. Singapore is quite a large town, with an air of
prosperity--a large number of ships in the harbour. The country is beautiful, and green, with
an abundance of fine fruit, &c.; the country around highly improved with tasteful houses and
well-laid-out grounds. The English residents call it the Madeira of the East, in allusion to
its healthfulness. Some twenty-two American merchant ships here, most of them laid up! The
Wyoming was here twenty days ago, and left for Rhio Strait, where she remained for some days.
Finished coaling last night, the operation having occupied no more than ten hours. Received
provisions.

Wednesday, Dec. 23rd.--Weather variable, with occasional showers of rain--raining heavily in
the afternoon. Visited the city, and was astonished at its amount of population and business.
There are from eighty to one hundred thousand Chinese on Singapore island, nearly all of them
in the city, from twelve to fifteen thousand Malays, and about fifteen hundred Europeans. Singapore
being a free port, it is a great entrepôt of trade. Great quantities of Eastern produce reach
it from all quarters, whence it is shipped to Europe.

The business is almost exclusively in the hands of the Chinese, who are also the artisans and
labourers of the place. The streets are thronged with foot-passengers and vehicles, among which
are prominent the ox, or rather the buffalo cart, and the hacks for hire, of which latter there
are nine hundred licensed. The canal is filled with country boats of excellent model, and the
warehouses are crammed with goods. Money seems to be abundant and things dear. They are just
finishing a tasteful Gothic church, with a tall spire, which is a notable landmark as you approach;
they are also completing officers' quarters on a hill which commands the town. Barracks for
three or four regiments lie unoccupied a couple of miles outside the city, and a large court-house.

The moving multitude in the streets comprises every variety of the human race, every shade
of colour, and every variety of dress, among which are prominent the gay turbans and fancy
jackets of the Mahomedan, Hindu, &c. Almost all the artisans and labourers were naked, except
a cloth or a pair of short trousers tucked about the waist. The finest dressed part of the
population was decidedly the jet-black, with his white flowing mantle and spotted turban. The
upper class of Chinese merchants are exceeding polite, and seem intelligent. I visited the
establishment of Whampoa and Co. Whampoa was above the middle height, stout, and with a large,
well-developed head. I was told that his profits some years amounted to forty or fifty thousand
pounds! He was sitting in a small, dingy, ill-lighted little office on the ground floor, and
had before him a Chinese calculating machine, over the numerous small balls of which, strung
on wires, he was running his hands for amusement, as a gambler will sometimes do with his checks.
At the suggestion of the gentleman who was with me, I requested him to multiply four places
of figures by three places, naming the figures, and the operation was done about as rapidly
as I could write down the result. Their shaved heads, and long queues, sometimes nearly touching
the ground, are curious features of their personal appearance. The workshops front upon the
streets, and in them busy, half-naked creatures may be seen, working away as industriously
as so many beavers all day long, seeming never to tire of their ceaseless toil.

Amid all this busy population I saw but one female in the streets, and she was of the lower
class. Dined in the country with Mr. Beaver. The ride out was over good roads flanked by large
forests and ornamental trees, among which was the tall, slender, graceful palm of the betel-nut.
The Botanical Gardens are on an elevation commanding a fine view of the town and the sea, and
are laid out with taste, ornamented with flowering trees and shrubs, and flowers. Hither a
band of music comes to play several times a week, when the townspeople turn out to enjoy the
scene. A few miles beyond the town the whole island is a jungle, in which abounds the ferocious
Bengal tiger. It is said that one man and a half per day is the average destruction of human
life by these animals. Visited opium-preparation shop. It pays an enormous licence.

All this beauty fails to reconcile the European lady to this country, I was told. The eternal
sameness of summer, and the heat and moisture, weigh upon them, and their husbands being away
all day on business, they pine for their European homes. The life seems agreeable enough to
the men. The Governor of the "Straits Settlement" is a Colonel.

Thursday, Dec. 24.--Cloudy; five of my men deserted last night. The Kwang-tung got under way
at 8 1/2 A.M., and we followed her and steered for the strait of Malacca. Several sails in
sight; Malay pilot on board. Passed the Kwang-tung very rapidly. At about 1 P.M. we fired a
gun and hove to an American-looking barque, under English colours, with the name, "Martaban,
of Maulmain," on her stern. Sent a boat on board; and the officer reporting that she was an
American-built ship, with English register, and that the Master refused to come on board, I
went on board myself to examine the case. There being no bill of sale, the transaction being
recent, the Master and Mate, &c., being Americans, I had no doubt that the transfer was fraudulent,
and captured and burned her. The cargo had no paper on board connected with it, except the
ordinary bill of lading. It consisted of rice, and was shipped in Maulmain by a Mr. Cohen,
and consigned to his order at Singapore, whither the ship was bound. Of course, the cargo followed
the fate of the ship under such circumstances. Upon examination of the Master (Pike), under
oath, he admitted that the transfer was a sham, and made to protect the ship from capture.
At 11.30 P.M. came to anchor about four miles distant from Malacca, bearing N., in fifteen
fathoms water, for the purpose of landing our prisoners.

       *       *       *       *       *

The boarding officer's journal furnishes the annexed description of the interview with the
Master of the prize:--

I was sent on board to examine her papers. The barque was American built, had a new English
flag, and on her stern was painted "Martaban, of Maulmain." We knew that many Yankee vessels
had been transferred to English owners, and of course had to have an English flag; but the
question arose--Was there not some jobbery in this case? Nearing the Martaban I saw that she
was newly painted; pulling round and under the stern, I saw that a name had been painted over,
but could not see what the name was. I further observed that the last four letters of Maulmain
had been painted much more recently than the other ones, so I determined to most rigidly scrutinize
her papers. Upon my arrival on board, I inquired after the Captain's health, and then expressed
a wish to make a few inquiries respecting his vessel.

He with the utmost affability was equally ready to afford me any information required, at the
same time informing me I should find "everything correct." The vessel I found was the Martaban
of Maulmain, Captain Pike, from Maulmain to Singapore, rice laden. I then requested to see
the ship's papers, which request was readily granted. Accordingly the register, clearance bills
of lading, and crew list, were speedily produced and examined, not omitting the Master's certificate.
These but corroborated what I previously knew. Putting a few questions to the Captain, and
comparing his answers with the papers, I learned the following facts--viz., that the barque
was American built, that she had been upwards of five months in Maulmain; that she had been
transferred on the 10th December, after the cargo was in, and on the day in which she cleared,
and only one day previous to her sailing; that the captain had no certificate or bill of sale,
nor, in fact, any papers respecting the transfer on board; that he, the Captain, was an American,
and had commanded the barque previous to her transfer.

Taking the register up again and closely scrutinizing it, I observed what had previously escaped
my attention--viz., that the register, which is a printed form, with spaces for written insertions,
had been first written with a lead pencil, and over that with ink. No professional registrar
or shipmaster would, I felt certain, have so prepared it. Looking again at the crew list I
made another discovery, that all the names of the crew were written in one handwriting, from
the mate to the boys. Now I well knew that some of the crew, and especially the mates, would
be able to write, and of the mate's ability to use a pen I speedily satisfied myself by making
him produce his logbook, wherein his name, &c., was written; or, if unable to write, the usual
X, his mark, would have been affixed to each name. I had now no doubt about the papers, believing
them to be false. I then requested the Master to take his papers and go on board the Alabama,
which, however, he positively refused to do, unless forcibly compelled; stating that "this
was an affair that flag (pointing to the English colours flying at his peak) wouldn't stand."
He still persisting in his refusal to go on board our ship, I took possession of his vessel,
pending Captain Semmes' decision.

Finding that the Mountain wouldn't come to Mahomet, Mahomet went to the Mountain; for, after
calling a man out of my boat and stationing him at the wheel, I dispatched the boat back to
the Alabama with a report of the irregularity of the papers, and a request for further instructions.
To my surprise, Captain Semmes came himself and stopped at the gangway, and told the Captain
he had come to examine the ship's papers. Captain Pike signifying his assent, we went into
the cabin, and the papers being produced, I pointed out some of the discrepancies and acts
previously mentioned.

Captain Semmes then sharply interrogated Pike, insisting upon additional documents to prove
the legality of the transfer. None being forthcoming, Captain Semmes put some questions, as
only a lawyer can (Captain Semmes not only having studied, but practised law), the answers
to which only convinced Captain Semmes that what he had suspected was true--viz., that the
ship was sailing under false colours, and was to all intents and purposes an American vessel.

Captain Pike of course protested, to which Captain Semmes replied by ordering the destruction
of the vessel. Captain Semmes returning to the Alabama, I ordered the English flag to be hauled
down, and directed the Mates and crew to pack their luggage, and hold themselves in readiness
to go on board our ship. The First Lieutenant coming off, our boats got off a few stores, and
the prisoners were transferred to the Alabama.

By 5.20 had applied the torch, and regained our ship 5.30. The steamer Kwang-Tung was observed
near our burning prize. We then shaped our course for Malacca, intending to land our prisoners
there.

