At the head of the board, raised somewhat above the other seats, three figures had risen,--one,
in the centre, tall, spare, stooping somewhat, in spite of his brave attire; at his left, another
as tall as he, but broader, more compactly built, with the square shoulders of a military man,
richly dressed also in a scarlet tunic embroidered in gold, with heavy bands of gold about
his arms. And at the right of the central figure, the third, young and slender and all in white,
with a head-dress of gold in which two poppies flamed upon either temple, and from which long
jewelled ends hung to her knees. A veil fell behind her, over her dark hair, of Persian gauze,
filmy as mist, in which threads of gold like prisoned sunbeams were woven. Her face, upheld
proudly as though she scorned to give way before the eyes upon her, was white, but her lips
were scarlet as the flowers she wore. A jewelled girdle fell about her hips, but on her bare
arms were neither gems nor gold. The central figure was speaking, but his words could not be
heard. He took the girl's hand, and laid it in the man's hand, and held them so; and the tones
of the man's voice repeating after him rose to Nicanor's eyrie, although the words were lost.
There followed a pause, in which the girl drooped her head, but all faces were turned toward
her, and Nicanor knew that her lips were whispering the solemn "Where thou art, Caius, there
am I, Caia"; and he clenched his teeth, and for a moment the scene below him swam in blood-red
mist.

She was lost to him,--always he had known it, known the hopelessness of his passion, all the
sweeter for the bitterness which was in it,--but never until then had the knowledge so come
home to him. He would have liked to force his way in among them, these smirking, soft patricians,
and tear her away from them by right of his savage strength; in his hot eyes was murder, and
in his heart raging hate and a love as raging. He could have killed her, even; if she might
not be his, he would have her no man's. His hand shot out as though in fact the knife were
in it; in fancy he saw himself driving it home straight and true above the heart whose throbbing
he had watched--the heart that had throbbed for him only, the slave, out of all the world of
men. He could feel his dagger bite through her white breast as he had felt the soft slice of
flesh under his blade before; he could see the blood well up around the knife, slowly at first,
with a quick, hot spurt when the steel was withdrawn. So she would remain all his, and none
might take her from him. His thoughts maddened him. He groaned aloud and dropped his face in
his hands on the stone ledge of the window, and the moonlight touched him, a strange figure
of desperate longings, desperate bewilderment and rebellion and pain. He shook to the primal
passions of love and hate that tore him,--love for one, hate for all that had gone to make
the conditions of his life what they must be; according to the measure of his untamed strength
he suffered, in fierce revolt against the mocking Fates who were stronger than he.

A clapping of hands, sharp and crackling, roused him. He brushed the hair from his eyes, and
again looked down upon them, so far below, so far above him. The central figure had withdrawn,
but the betrothed couple, hand clasped in hand, still stood together. The table was in commotion;
women pelted the two with flowers, and men were on their feet and shouting. Nicanor saw Marius
bend his head and kiss Varia upon the lips. So was their covenant sealed before the law; in
sight of all the world her lord had claimed her, and she was no longer all her own.

High in his eyrie Nicanor laughed, with a flash of his old lawless triumph.

"Thy lips are not the first on hers, sir bridegroom! Her head hath lain on another breast than
thine; other arms than thine have held her, O my lord! What if this also were to be known?
Where then would be thy triumph?" He raised his clenched hands fiercely, sending forth his
empty challenge to the heedless stars. "Thy wife is not all thine, my lord! Her body thou mayst
purchase and possess, but her soul is mine, mine, mine, for all time and all eternity! I, who
waked it from its empty sleep--I, who taught it first to live and love--I am her soul's lord
even as thou art her body's master--I, the slave!"

His voice stopped on the words, changed, and grew strained with infinite love and longing,
all its fierce triumph gone.

"Eh, thou very sweet, we dreamed awhile, and the dream was sweeter than ever was dream before,
and it is over! The wound in thy child's heart will heal, for thy love is a child's love, and
when it may grow no more will fade and die. Yet it may be that it shall be never quite forgotten;
that in after days a word, a song, the fragrance of a flower, will bring to thee dim memories
of what is gone. But my love must last, to burn and sear since it may not bless me, for it
is not a child's love, beloved! We had no right to happiness, thou and I. But wherefore not?
And who decreed it so? I may not have one last look from thee, one touch of thy tender hands,--O
little hands that have clung to mine!--and all my heart is a tomb where my love lies buried.
Long months have I lain in darkness, but in my heart was light, for I dreamed of the time when
I should come to thee. Now all is dark, and my strength hath gone from me; I am a child that
cries for a stronger hand to lean on and can find none. The dreams which I had are gone from
me, and my tongue is lead. In all the earth is none so lonely as am I!"

Again he buried his face in his hands, crouching against the wall beneath the window. The music
rose to him like a breath from that scarcely vanished past, playing upon him,--calloused body
and sensitive tortured soul,--conjuring forth visions of dead golden hours, weaving its own
poignant spell. Voices from the hall mingled with it, in talk and heedless laughter; healths
were drunk and speeches made. When life was gay and careless, when wine was red and eyes were
bright and faces fair, who would pause to give a thought to sorrow?

Minutes dropped away, link by link, from the golden chain of Time. All at once Nicanor raised
his head, slowly, like one unwilling to meet once more what must be met. The loneliness of
the moonlight revealed the scarring passion in his face, signs visible of the chaos of inward
tumult which tore him, of the slow forces gathering for the inevitable battle waged somewhen,
somehow, by every mortal soul. And that face, gaunt, with haunted, shadowed eyes, looked all
at once strangely purged of the heat of its lawlessness, for on it was the first presage of
the fierce slow travail of spirit rending flesh.

"What is this that I have done!" he said unsteadily. "I have boasted unworthily, ravening like
a brute beast in my triumph over thee, and by my boasting have I shamed thee, thou lily among
women. Was I blind, that I could not see that thine is the triumph, over my passion and over
me? Thou art another's, O my Lady whom I love so well; and every thought I hold of thy caresses
doeth thee dishonor. For thou art pure and holy, and though it puts all worlds between us,
yet I would not have thee otherhow. Yet I cannot but remember thy voice, thine eyes, thy little
clinging hands, the perfume of thy hair; they are all that is left to me--dear memories, bitter
sweet! But I may not boast of them, for thy fair fame, which thou first didst teach me to honor,
is thus much in my hands, and I, even the outcast and despised, have it still to guard thee
in this little thing. Once was I filled with base pride for that I had made thee love me in
answer to my love; and oh, a blind, blind fool was I, not knowing that my love for thee was
then no love at all! But thou, in thy white innocence, didst place thine hands upon mine eyes,
and the scales fell from them, and I saw thee and myself, and was humbled. Now never while
I live shall thy dear name pass my lips, lest through me one breath of evil blow upon thee.
I cannot die for thee, beloved, since that were a fate too easy for the sport of thy high gods;
I may not even live for thee. This is all that I can do! This is what we have done, each for
the other: thy soul I wakened; thou in turn didst give to me a soul within my soul, wakening
it to what it never knew before,--new dreams, new ambitions, new desires. For I saw through
thee the great world which is thy world, wherein lieth all for which men long and strive. One
glimpse I had; and now the gates are closed, and the light is gone, and I am thrust back into
outer darkness. And it all is finished!"

A peal of laughter rose to him; a burst of music; a half-hundred voices shouting Vivas to Marius
and his bride. He looked down once more into the light and color of the great hall, seeing
one there, only, out of all the brilliant throng,--one fair and drooping, with scarlet poppies
framing her white face. Long and long he looked, as though he would burn her image upon his
heart and mind forever, his lady whom he had lost and who was never his. So he turned away,
back into the outer darkness, and crossed the roofs again, and the blackness of the manhole
swallowed him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wardo, cloaked and spurred and ready for the start, opened the cell door and thrust his torch
within. The light fell upon a bowed figure sitting on the floor, motionless, with face hidden
in its folded arms, and nothing showing save a crown of rough black hair.

"Thou here?" said Wardo. "Well, I am sorry."

Nicanor looked up. His face, white with more than its prison pallor, was drawn as though by
bodily pain.

"Ay," he said dully, "I am here."

"I would thou wert not," Wardo muttered. "Come, then."

"I have a friend here, whom I would take with me," Nicanor said, without rising. "Stand still,
and I will call him."

He whistled softly through his teeth, a gentle hissing, until a shadow seemed to stir from
the far corner of the cell where the torchlight did not fall. Forth into the light hobbled
a great gray rat, gaunt, and scarred, and lame. At sight of Wardo it whisked back into the
gloom; again Nicanor whistled; again it appeared, and again vanished. A third time, emboldened,
it essayed, and came to Nicanor warily, dazed in the unwonted light. Nicanor threw a bit of
cloth torn from his tunic over its head, fastening it so that the beast could neither bite
nor see, tied its forelegs together, and without more ado thrust it inside his tunic. Wardo gaped.

"Well, of all playmates! Will he not scratch thee?"

"Not while the cloth is about his head," Nicanor answered. There came an odd note of pride
into his voice. "Momus and I are old friends. I maimed him; he hath bitten me. Now we understand
each other. I have taught him to fight,--he is quite as intelligent as Hito,--and there is
not a rat in the dungeons that can beat him. Man, you should see him fight!"

"I'd like to!" quoth Wardo, promptly. "Maybe, at Cunetio or Corinium we shall find some trainer
to try a main with thee. Now come; we have tarried long enough."

In the slaves' court Hito was fuming over the departure of his deputy and the half dozen prisoners.
As Wardo and Nicanor approached he leered upon them balefully.

"So, white-face!" he taunted. "Art recovered from thy madness?"

"Ha, fair Julia, how art thou?" Nicanor greeted him imperturbably, so that Hito cursed him.
For word of Hito's dance had spread, and even his lords had laughed at him.

"Oh, ay, I remember!" he snarled. "This is to teach thee not to call thy betters names. Were
it not for thy insubordination, I should have cancelled thy sentence to the mines. It is not
well to laugh at Hito! I have a doubt in my mind that thou wert not so mad as it seemed."

"I have no doubt in mine that I was not so mad as thou," said Nicanor, with all cheerfulness.

Hito glared, and Wardo mounted and made haste to get his party under way. His assistant snapped
the chains on Nicanor's wrists which bound him to his fellows, and got on his own horse. They
went out through the gate, opened by a sleepy porter, and took the road.

All through that night they plodded steadily. Once a horseman overtook them, riding furiously;
shouted something which none could catch, and was gone in darkness. Their road led them over
the downs and through the heather by the little station of Bibracte to Calleva, where four
roads joined; and on through the level and open country around Corinium, where, to south and
west, among shaded groves, they caught glimpses of palaces and stately homes. So, in time,
they came to the scarred hills of the great iron district of the west.

At each station where they stopped for rest and refreshment on their three days' journey, Wardo
was taken aside by strangers, who talked earnestly. "The state of the country," he told his
men, with his tongue in his cheek. Most of these strangers were fair-skinned Saxons, like himself;
indeed, the number of these was significant. Wardo, coming from the south, had to tell what
he knew of recent happenings there. This was not much; his interlocutors, it would seem, knew
more than he. Especially did they inquire to whom he belonged, and what he was doing with his
charges.

They crossed the Sabrina in a flat-bottomed barge, and were in Britannia Secunda, the ancient
country of the Silures. Here, from Uriconium to Glevum on the Sabrina, and south to Leucarum
on the Via Julia, were scattered the iron mines from which their owners drew inexhaustible
wealth. The one controlled by Eudemius lay five Roman miles west of the river, and was reckoned
one of the largest and richest in the section. In it were said to be employed over five hundred
men, mostly prisoners from the various estates of Eudemius, and overseers.

VII

The gallery, pitch-black and narrow, was dotted with moving lights which wandered here and
there, each a restless will-o'-the-wisp. It was very damp, and from somewhere came a monotonous
drip of water. The tapping of picks sounded incessantly out of the darkness, and occasionally
there were hoarse voices raised in wanton curses or harsh commands. Shores of heavy timbers
supported the sides and roof of the tunnel, looming grotesquely gigantic as some passing light
touched them; this was the newest of the workings, and so far the richest.

A light and a clanking of chains drew near down the tunnel; and eight men, chained like mules,
and loaded with baskets of ore, came painfully over the uneven ground to the chamber of the
main shaft, where a second gang waited to unload them. Each party was in charge of its own
overseer, who carried a whip and went armed to the teeth. It was easier to use men than to
lower animals into the galleries for the work; besides, the superintendent wished to save his
horses.

The shaft, through which men ascended and descended by means of long series of ladders, opened
out into a chamber, roughly circular in shape, from which the galleries branched off in all
directions. It ran through four different levels, the top one, and the oldest, something over
fifteen feet underground, the lowest not quite seventy. On each level the ore was handled in
the same way; brought to the central shaft in baskets by men, and carried to the surface by
other men who spent their lives toiling up and down the endless ladders, with baskets strapped
upon their backs. It was primitive work, and barbarous, but it at least served the purpose
of getting rid, in short order, of insubordinate slaves. Earth from the tunnellings was treated
in like fashion; and every timber used for building up the walls was lowered from level to
level by ropes. Accidents were many and appalling. Sometimes a huge stick slipped from its
lashings and crashed downward into the bowels of the earth, knocking men off the ladders in
its course as though they had been flies. Sometimes a ladder gave way, hurling screaming wretches
into eternity; sometimes men were buried in sudden falls of earth. Also the ladder men, who
necessarily went unchained, died like rats from heart trouble brought on by their constant
climbing; and others were to be driven into their places.

The overseer of the second gang watched the loading of the baskets strapped to his men's backs,
noted the time on his clepsydra, which stood on a near-by ledge, and started the men one by
one, in quick succession. He knew to a fraction of time how long the trip to the surface should
take, but to make assurance more sure, each carrier, on his return, brought a check stamped
with the exact minute of arrival by the overseer who had received the ore above. If this check
showed that more time had been consumed than was necessary for the ascent and descent, there
was punishment swift and sure for that luckless one who had lingered.

The chained slaves, with their empty baskets, filed off again into the gallery from which they
had come.

The shaft chamber, the centre of its floor pierced by the black hole leading down to the next
and lowest level, was lighted dimly by lamps and candles standing upon shelves which jutted
from the earthen walls. From all the galleries radiating from it, files of men, staggering
under weighted baskets, kept coming to be relieved of their loads by their unchained fellow-workers.
Every moment a man started up the ladder, clawing his way at top speed out of sight in the
darkness of the shaft, like a grotesque, huge monkey. No lashing, no punishment, could get
more than four such round trips out of a man without a period of rest equal to at least two
trips. When it came to this point, he would merely lose his hold from sheer exhaustion and
fall from the ladder. And when picked up by the crew at the bottom of the shaft, he was fit
for nothing but to be thrown like carrion into the nearest unused pit, walled in with a half-dozen
shovelfuls of earth, and left at last to rest.

The overseer by the shaft glanced at his water-clock, raised a reed to his lips, and blew a
shrill whistle. From level to level and from gallery to gallery this was taken up and repeated
in fainter cadences, and with it the insistent tapping of the picks ceased. One by one men
began to hurry forth from the galleries, making for the ladders which led to the world of air
and sunlight.

Nicanor came from one of the branching tunnels, a pick over his shoulder, stripped to the waist
and grimed with sweat and dirt, his lean chest and arms thrown out against the murky candle-light.
He was all bone and skin and muscle, hard as nails; but it was the dead, springless hardness
which comes to an athlete badly overtrained, not the resilient firmness which denotes good
condition. He laid his pick on the ground near the entrance of the tunnel and went to the ladder.
Even his tread had lost something of its cat-like lightness; he walked wearily, his shoulders
bowed. He gave his number to the overseer, who barely waited to record it in his tablet, with
the time he had stopped work, before starting up the ladder for his half-hour's intermission.
Nicanor, suddenly alert, ran back into the tunnel, reappeared with a bag, which he held carefully,
and started up the ladder also. But at the next level, thirty feet above, he stopped, instead
of keeping on to the surface.

In the shaft-chamber here were a dozen and odd men gathered, but there seemed to be no overseer
among them. A ring had formed about a space on the floor under one of the lamps; men craned
over the shoulders of those in front of them. One saw Nicanor and shouted at him.

"Well come, friend! We wait for you and that pretty pet of yours!"

He was a short man who spoke, with arms immensely long and hairy, and a seamed face of a shortness
out of all proportion to its width, as though crown of head and chin had been pressed together
in a vise. Of the others, all were more or less as black as Ethiopians with grime; many were
shaven and mutilated, with lips slit or an ear gone. Some were branded; and the backs of many
were scored with the marks of floggings, some long healed, others red and raw. No fouler-mouthed
crew of desperadoes might be found within the island; doomed here for many offences, they still
committed the offence of living. Nicanor was greeted with a chorus of jests and exclamations.

"Hurry, son, our time is not so long as thy legs."

"Where's thy plaything? Balbus here is ready with his toy to make ribbons of that ugly beast
of thine."

"Let us see now whose boasts will stand repeating."

"I have two asses on thee, Balbus!" one cried, and jingled two copper coins in his horny palms.
Coins were produced from rags by those lucky enough to own them; others wagered their picks
or spades. One bet his sandals on Nicanor's chances against a man who was willing to lose his
shirt.

Nicanor pushed his way into the ring, where Balbus, grasping a large black rat, knelt on one
knee, ready to loose the strip of cloth that bound its muzzle. Nicanor shook his gray rat out
of the bag, and untied it.

Men had found such contests cheap as well as exciting, since rats were over plentiful, and
when pitted against their own kind would fight to the death. This form of amusement was widespread
among soldiers and the lower classes; and there were men who made a business of training rats
and selling them or matching them against all comers. These beasts were carefully bred from
approved fighting stock, and often brought sums preposterously large.

Balbus let go his black with a yell as Nicanor released the gray, and the two beasts leaped
at each other and closed in the middle of the ring, rolling over. Men clawed over one another's
shoulders to see better; at opposite sides of the ring the owners squatted, each urging on
his animal with hisses and clapping hands. The light from the smoking lamps and candles fell
upon the crowd, throwing into relief brutal faces, and eyes gleaming wolfishly, savagely eager
for blood.

"The black is on top, the black wins!" one cried, hot-eyed with excitement, and leaned further
and still further into the ring. Another pulled him back.

"Nay, fool--the gray--look at him, holy gods! My money on the gray! See, the black bleeds--the
gray hath bit him in the throat. Macte! At him again, graybeard! Lad, a brand-new knife is
thine if thou'lt win for me those sandals of Chilo's! Ah--habet!"

The ring tossed with excitement. Bets were roared from brazen throats; those on the outskirts
of the crowd fought to get a look. And in the open centre of the tumult a furry ball rolled
and bit and squealed and made bloody sport for those who gloated over it.

A yell, half exultation, half anger, broke from a dozen throats. The black rat tore himself
loose and fled back toward Balbus; the gray stood in the middle of the ring, triumphant. Both
were badly mangled and drenched with blood, but the black was craven. The followers of the
gray roared their triumph. Balbus seized his rat and flung him back into the fight, almost
on top of the gray, which instantly fastened on him.

But, plainly, the black had had enough. It could be seen that he no longer attacked; was all
on the defensive, trying only to escape. Again he broke away and crawled toward safety. The
ring howled with mingled derision and delight. Balbus, cursing, his face congested with rage,
again threw him back, and again the vicious gray fell upon him with teeth and claws.

"Give thy sandals quickly, Chilo!" a voice shouted above the racket. "The black is down!"

He was, and the gray on top of him, bloodily victorious.

"Peractum est!" Nicanor shouted, in the language of the arena; and sprang to his feet and caught
up his bloody pet and held him high in triumph. But Balbus, his face aflame with fury, strode
to where the black rat lay still twitching, and stamped the heel of his iron-shod sandal upon
its head with such force that its brains and blood were spattered.

"It was no fair fight!" he cried, turning on those who jeered him. "That gray beast wrought
by magic. Thou hast played a trick!" He shook his fist in Nicanor's face, glaring.

Nicanor backed away with a laugh. It taunted Balbus beyond endurance; he lunged forward, his
fists clenched. In an instant there had been battle, on which men would have bet as eagerly
as on the combat ended. But there was a sudden clamor of guards' whistles; a rush from the
ladders, and overseers fell upon the crowd with hissing lashes that left their marks on backs
and thighs. The ring broke up, as men fled like sheep and were whipped back to their posts.

Soon there was nothing heard but the endless tapping of picks, the thud of falling earth, and
the voices of overseers and the foremen of the gangs. But Balbus, each time he passed with
laden basket the spot where Nicanor stood tirelessly wielding his heavy pick, scowled at him
blackly and muttered oaths of vengeance. For he was of those who must be taught, by many ungentle
lessons, that one must know how to lose as well as how to win.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

THE NIGHT AND THE DAWNING

BOOK V

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Book V

THE NIGHT AND THE DAWNING

I

When Wardo had delivered his charges to the superintendent of the mine and received a receipt
for them from him, he started back, with his assistants, on his homeward journey. But at Bibracte,
where they would leave the main road and turn due south toward the villa, ten Roman miles away,
he bade his men wait for him at the station until his return. Instead of striking across country
for the villa, he kept along the main road, riding swiftly and steadily, as one who pursues
a definite plan. He crossed the Tamesis at Pontes, after a night's rest, and at evening of
the next day rode through the marsh-ford at Thorney.

Here he met with one who also was on horseback, splashed to the waist with mud, for even the
high-roads were heavy with the springtime thawing out of the frost. He was muffled in a cloak,
and his spurs were bloodstained. He hailed Wardo in Latin tinged strongly with a foreign accent.

"Can you tell me, friend, if there be an inn in this place where soft beds and good food may
be found?"

Wardo was moved to curiosity.

"For yourself?" he asked, spurring up to the stranger's side.

"Nay, for my lord and his wife and daughter. I am sent ahead to find lodging for them. They
are on the road to Rutupiæ, to take ship for Gaul, and travel by way of Londinium, where my
lord hath affairs to settle; but the women have given out and vow that they will go no farther.
So do the chickens break for cover when the hawk swoops."

His voice was slightly contemptuous. He turned his face, covered with a wiry red beard, upon
Wardo. His eyes, small and light, glinted from a network of wrinkles under reddish brows.

"You are no Roman," he said abruptly.

"Why, no," said Wardo, somewhat surprised, "I am Saxon."

"Like myself," said the stranger, grandly. "Men call me Wulf, the son of Wulf."

"There is an inn here," said Wardo, without returning information. "I will show you, if you
like. It is kept by Christians, and it is clean."

"Then it will be poor," Wulf grumbled, "and the wine will not be fit for decent men."

"There you are wrong," said Wardo. "It is where my lord Eudemius stops with his train when
he passeth through here."

"So!" Wulf's glance held awakening curiosity. "The lord Eudemius of the white villa south of
Bibracte?"

"That same," said Wardo, with the pride of a servant in a well-known master.

"One hears tales of that house these days," said Wulf, casually. "See, friend, when I have
made arrangement for my lords and brought them hither, is there not a place where we might
find a mouthful of good Saxon ale?"

Wardo hesitated.

"I fear my time is too short," he answered. "Even now I am late--"

"For the maid who awaits thee?" said Wulf, with a chuckle. "Well, I'll not keep thee then.
But this much I'll tell thee now. When my lord sails with his familia from Rutupiæ, it will
be without Wulf, the son of Wulf. I have it in mind to stay here longer; there will be fat
pickings for Saxons by and by, when these Roman lords are crowded out. Hast heard that?"

"Ay," said Wardo. "I have heard it."

"And it is in my mind also to try for some of these same fat pickings," said Wulf, and laughed.
"Why not I, as well as any man?"

"If you wait for these Roman lords to be crowded out, as you have it," said Wardo, "it will
be some time before these fat pickings fall to your lot."

"Perhaps not so long time as one might think," Wulf retorted. "Hast heard of what happened
at Anderida?"

"Oh, ay," said Wardo. "The lord governor of Anderida fled to the house of my lord."

Wulf's glance became all at once as keen as a gaze-hound which sights its prey.

"Had he his son, called Felix, with him, a cat-eyed rascal, who was wounded?"

"Yes," said Wardo, quite proud to tell his news. "And on the evening of the feast the lord
governor and his men rode away again. But he left his son behind him."

A gleam shot into Wulf's light eyes.

"So?" he said pleasantly. "Perhaps, then, this son Felix is still a guest of your lord?"

"Ay, so he is," Wardo returned. "Which is to say that he was there when I rode away, and that
is now six days ago." In his turn he shot a glance at the red-beard from his steely eyes. "Now
why should you ask these things, friend gossip? What concern is this son Felix of yours?"

"Merely that all men like to know what is happening these days. What else? But know you how
the man got his wound? Nay, I thought not. Perhaps you know that the leader of that band of
Saxons and those insurgent Romans, called Evor, was slain in that affair at Anderida?"

"No," said Wardo. "I did not know that. Who slew him?"

"Felix," answered Wulf.

Wardo looked somewhat startled.

"Then this is why he remained behind!" he exclaimed. His face awoke to a new thought. "Why,
death of a dog! if this Evor's men pass through the Silva Anderida and hear that this lord
Felix is at the villa, there may be trouble for my lord."

"Ay," said Wulf. There was a certain grimness in his tone. "The son of Evor hath sworn to have
the blood of his father's slayer; therefore it is quite likely."

"How come you to know these things?" Wardo demanded. The stranger's manner was always casual
to indifference, and Wardo was not over keen to see what he was not looking for. His question
came more from curiosity than from suspicion, although of this there was something also.

"News travels fast these days," Wulf said briefly. "I got it from a carter who saw something
of the business. I hope you do not think that I was there? Now where is this inn of yours?
I must find it and hasten back to my lord."

By now they had reached a cobbled street no wider than an alley, running at right angles to
the main street, which led from ford to ford. Down this they rode abreast, and there was room
for no other horseman to pass them. Bare-shouldered girls laughed down at them from upper windows;
bent crones hobbled from door to door with baskets of fish or produce; children and dogs scampered
from under their horses' feet. The evening sunshine fell in long slanting shadows down the
dusty street, stabbing shafts of golden light into dark doorways.

Wardo saw Wulf to the door of the "cleanest inn on Thorney," watched him enter, and wheeled
his horse. Back again then he rode, with no more than a glance for the long-haired girls who
leaned to him from windows, and with a recklessness which sent the dogs and children flying.
He turned into the main street, back toward the marsh-ford, and galloped the length of it until
he reached a house which stood the third from the end, next to a half-burnt ruin where cattle
had been stalled, with a narrow door in a blank wall which betrayed nothing.

Before this he flung his horse back upon its haunches, leaped lightfoot to the ground, and
hammered on the door. The wicket was opened a space and closed; then the door was opened. He
entered, and it closed after him.

Two hours later Wulf, the son of Wulf, came down the street in the dim twilight, on foot, walking
with a swagger. Out of the saddle he was seen to be short and stunted, with legs badly bowed.
His breath proclaimed loudly that he had stopped at sundry wine-shops on the way. He was passing
unconcernedly, when a whinny from a horse standing before a door caught his ear, and he stopped.

"Light of my eyes, I've seen this beast before," he muttered, going closer to look. "Why, sure,
he's the horse of that long-legged yellow-head of mine. Ay, here's the brand I noted on the
shoulder. So--we shall see what we shall see."

He knocked boldly upon the door. The wicket opened.

"What will you?" a woman's voice asked from within.

"A friend of mine entered here a little time ago," Wulf began glibly.

"Many have entered here," said the voice. "Who is your friend?"

Wulf's laugh covered a moment of embarrassment.

"Why, in truth, I do not care to name his name aloud," he said. "If you will let me in, I will
see if he be still here."

The door opened. Wulf stepped inside, confronting a tall girl, full-throated, long-limbed,
with face of purest Grecian outline. Wulf's single keen glance took in the girl, her attire,
and the room behind her. His manner changed at once.

"Your friend may not be here," said the girl.

Wulf advanced.

"In truth, I shall not miss him overmuch. Might a weary man purchase food, and a drop of wine,
and perhaps a lodging for the night?" He jingled coins in the pouch which hung at his leathern
belt.

The girl eyed him.

"You know that you may," she said, very wearily, and crossed the room and opened a door into
an inner chamber.

Here the air was heavy with the smell of food and the fumes of wine. There were many people
in the room,--men and women; yet in the first glance he cast around Wulf saw his long-legged
yellow-head reclining at ease upon a couch, his arm around a slim golden beauty who sat beside
him. In his free hand Wardo clutched a brazen beaker, which the girl filled constantly from
a fat-sided ampulla on her knee. From time to time she stroked back the fair hair on his temples,
and each time he raised his half-drunken head to kiss her shapely arm.

Wulf nodded to one or two men in the room, his face betraying no surprise that he found them
there. He bade the dark-haired Greek girl bring wine and two cups. While she was gone a man
and a woman slipped away through one of the several side doors, leaving vacant the place next
to Wardo. At once Wulf possessed himself of it, without glancing at his neighbor. The Greek
returned, and he pulled her down beside him, had her drink with him, kissed her arms and hands
with his red-bearded mouth, made love to her with jests and laughter unnecessarily loud. Soon
Wardo's attention was caught. He sat upright, steadying himself on the girl's arm, and looked
across at Wulf.

"Not too drunk to talk, I hope!" Wulf muttered.

"Holla, Wulf, son of Wulf!" Wardo called, in a voice somewhat thickened by wine. "How didst
find the way to Chloris?"

"Who but knows the house of Chloris?" said Wulf, pleasantly. "I did not look to find thee here."

"I? Oh, I am always here. Is it not so, Sada? Am I not always with thee, girl of my heart?"

"Ah, not always!" said the golden-haired girl. "Not so often as I would have thee."

"Drink with us, thou and thy lady," Wulf invited.

The golden-haired girl leaned over.

"Nay, Wardo, thou hast drunk enough. Already the wine is in thy head," she murmured; and Wulf,
keen-eared, caught the words.

But Wardo was already holding out his beaker, which the Greek filled at a sign from Wulf.

"Nay, sweet, my head is iron," said Wardo, half indulgent, half in scorn. "Here I pledge thee,
friend Wulf, the son of Wulf: 'A long life and a rousing one, a quick death and a merry one!'"
He drank deeply.

"That is the motto of my lord master," quoth Wulf. "And light of my eyes, but he lives up to
it! There is a man who spends gold as wine floweth through a colum."

"Ay, but promise you my lord spends faster!" said Wardo, with great pride.

"So?" said Wulf. He gave the Greek a sign to keep the wine-cups filled. "Then must he indeed
be wealthy. In truth, I have heard something of a feast he gives at his villa even now."

"The marriage feast of our lady Varia and the lord Marius," said Wardo.

"Men say that the gifts are of a richness beyond all counting," said Wulf. "Of course, being
there, thou couldst see it all, and judge."

"Ay," said Wardo. "I saw it all."

With the wine, his tongue began to wag. His eyes sparkled; he drained his cup and set it down
with a thump. "In that house is the ransom of an emperor, ay, of forty emperors!" he cried.
"No lord in the island could gather such hoard of treasure, not even yours, Wulf the son of
Wulf, and I shall fight you if you say so! No man hath seen such jewels, such vessels of gold
and silver. There be a million golden cups set about with rubies; an hundred thousand vases
of silver; and every woman hath a fan of gold, set with gems. And the jewels he hath loaded
on our lady--man, thine eyes have never seen the like! She wears a girdle that blazes like
that pharos at Dubræ, which I have seen; she goes belted with flame that dazzles the eyes.
On her arms are an hundred bracelets--"

"Of a truth, I do think the wine is in thine eyes, Wardo mine," said Wulf. His laugh was careless,
but his eyes were keen.

Wardo flushed angrily.

"Not so!" he cried. "For these six months and more have not goods been coming to us from all
the world?" He boasted vaingloriously.

Wulf nodded.

"I have heard that that is so. There must indeed be great store of plunder--of wealth within
thy master's house."

"Verily!" said Wardo, somewhat appeased. He told all that he knew, and much that he did not
know, fired with eagerness to impress upon this casual stranger the magnificence of the lord
whom he served. From mere loquacity he became argumentative, finally quarrelsome. But Sada
wound white arms about his neck and soothed him.

But by now the wine was reaching Wulf's head also, although compared to Wardo he was sober.

"That house of thy lord's will be fat pickings for the men of Evor when they come to claim
the blood of Felix for the blood which he hath shed. Light of my eyes! it would be worth--"

"What is this thou sayest?" Wardo demanded. He strove to sit upright, but fell back against
Sada in drunken laxity. "Speak louder, thou! There be a million bees that buzz within my head."

Wulf waved the women away.

"Leave us, pretty ones, awhile. Is it the first time men have left your arms to discuss affairs?"

Eunice, the tall Greek, went willingly, but Sada clung to her lover and would not go.

"Nay, I'll not leave thee. Speak as ye will--what is it to me? I have no call to remember."

"See, friend, I like thee, and I see no reason why we should not be comrades, for the better
gain of both," said Wulf, with all frankness. "We be of one nation, as against these haughty
Roman lords who soon must yield to us the field. Oh, but I long for a half-hundred kindred
souls to take with me this chance! What chance, say you?--the chance of gain, of wealth and
fortune past all dreams. Why should they have all, these haughty lords, while we have nothing?
Why should not something of their wealth profit us?"

Wardo shook his muddled head solemnly over this problem old as the ages.

"They have gained it," he muttered, with an air of profound wisdom.

"They have gained it, quotha! Ay, truly, but how? By rapine, taxation, wars, plunder! Therefore
why shall not others use like means? If it be fair for them, I say it is fair for us!" Wulf
brought down his fist upon the table with a blow that made the cups rattle. "Therefore now
is our chance, say I! All is confusion; the lords fight amongst themselves; we are slowly gaining
the ground they lose--let us also gain wealth with it!"

He discoursed at great length, repeating himself incessantly, losing himself in endless trains
of argument which nobody contradicted. It was not very clear what he wanted, even to himself,
it would seem. But he was quite convinced that existing conditions were altogether wrong and
something should at once be done about it. What the something should be he did not take the
trouble to state. Wardo dozed peacefully, his head on Sada's breast. No one in the room paid
the least attention to them.

Wardo roused, in time, reaching out blindly for his cup, and caught a word of Wulf's oration:

"... Gold for the taking. Had I but a half hundred--"

"Gold! That is a good thing to have!" Wardo muttered. He pulled Sada's head down to him. "When
I have gold, I shall buy thee from thy mistress. Wilt go with me?"

The girl's fair face flushed.

"Ay, thou knowest I will go," she answered. "Wheresoever thou wilt take me."

"If thou wouldst have gold, my friend, come with me, and it shall be thine in plenty," Wulf
cried eagerly.

Wardo looked at him with awakening interest.

"How so?"

"Thus," said Wulf. "We shall take for ourselves what should be ours by right, what is wrung
from us by infamous greed. What would suffice us would not be missed by those who have more
than plenty, yet even this they will not give us. We must get it for ourselves."

Wardo nodded.

"That will be a good thing to do. Where shall we find it?"

"Why should we show mercy to them?" Wulf declaimed. "What mercy have they shown us? Do they
not grind us into the earth; do we not pay in sweat and blood for their idle pleasures? And
with all of this, have they not sought to force us to our knees before any new god they choose
to perch upon a pedestal? I, for one, will not worship because one man says 'Bow down!' And
I do not care who knows it. I am as good as the next man, and I will have my rights."

Wardo, who had never heard anything like this before, was impressed deeply.

"I say so too," he exclaimed with great earnestness. "Let us take what is our own. Then if
thou hast rights, I have rights also. And I will have my rights!"

"Of course! I see thou art a clever fellow, and a man after mine own heart. Drink more wine.
See, then, I will tell thee a thing. This lord of thine, who oppresses thee and vouchsafes
thee no rights, who wrings from thee what should be thine--thou hast him in thy hand. He hath
committed a grievous crime in giving shelter to a murderer. Does he think that his guest will
not be demanded of him by those whom that guest hath wronged? For this does he not deserve
punishment?"

Wardo nodded, much bewildered at the rapid changes of subject he was called upon to follow.
Gods, gold, oppression, murderers, and all at once--and his mind was taxed with one thing at
a time.

"Then I see plainly that thou art chosen to execute justice and to claim thy full reward!"
cried Wulf, in sonorous prophecy.

"Oh, no--not on my lord!" said Wardo, firmly. "Or, look you, it would be I who should be executed."
And chuckled at his cleverness in discovering this point.

"You do not understand," Wulf assured him, patiently. "There is no danger in it for you--none
at all. All you will do is to answer these questions I shall ask you now. Tell me then, first,
how many men can your lord summon to--let us say, protect this lord Felix when his enemies
find him out?"

"With his familia, and the coloni and casarii who own him lord, he can call out near a thousand;
though it would take time to gather all of these from his estates. But, my friend, how may
the enemies of this lord Felix find him out when they know not where he is?"

Again he chuckled at the point which he had made.

"True," Wulf admitted smoothly. "I but suppose the case. For they are roaming far and wide,
and if they find him not, it will not be for lack of searching."

"Now I must tell my lord of this, that he may be prepared," Wardo muttered. He pressed his
hands to his temples. "My head is buzzing with your questions, and I am weary, for I have ridden
far. Pray you, let me sleep."

"Not yet!" Wulf said hastily, in alarm, as Wardo's head sank lower. "See, friend, you are trusted
in your lord's household, I doubt not. Is there a rear door, even a very little one, of which
you know where the key is hung?"

Wardo jerked his head upright, his eyes half closed.

"What is this you say?" he asked angrily. "What would you with a--a--little key?"

"Give me a key, and I will give you as much gold as you can carry on your back," said Wulf,
low and eagerly, his caution forgotten in the fever of his greed.

Wardo opened his eyes with effort to their fullest extent and stared at him. His voice was
thick and stuttering.

"A key? to my lord's house? Deae matres! What should I do that for? I am my lord's man!"

"You shall come to no harm!" Wulf urged desperately, fearful lest the man fall asleep before
he could gain what he would. But at last Wardo understood. He staggered off the couch, clutching
at Sada's shoulder for support, reeling and blind with drink, and towered over Wulf.

"Look you, sirrah!" he shouted, so that men turned to look at him in surprise, "I am no traitor
to my lord! I am his man, blood and body, and his will is my law and his faith is my faith.
I have served him loyally, and so shall I continue to serve. What is this you would have me
do? Turn rascal, even as you? Holy gods, I'll show you, knave and varlet--"

Unexpectedly he stooped, and caught Wulf by the collar of his tunic. Wulf struggled, but Wardo
dragged him across the floor, shook him, and flung him outside the door and slammed it. He
turned to Sada, demanding her applause with drunken self-satisfaction at his prowess, dropped
on the nearest couch in abject prostration, and was instantly asleep.

After uncounted hours he roused, to find Sada dashing cold water in his face and calling his
name in great distress. They were alone in the room, and the sun was shining through the window.

"What hast thou?" Wardo grumbled. "Let me sleep!"

She shook his shoulder.

"Hasten, Wardo, and undo the mischief thou hast done while there may yet be time. For hours
I have tried to wake thee!"

"Harm? What harm?"

"Thou hast told that evil man all he would know of thy lord's defences, of the treasures within
his house, and of the lord called Felix who is there. And when thou wert asleep he, being drunken
also, did tell Eunice, who bade him render payment for his wine, that it would not take long
to send word to these men who search for this lord Felix, and that then he would give her gold
and jewels in plenty. Hasten, Wardo, and warn thy lord, or it will be too late!" She wrung
her hands.

"I have done this thing?" Wardo exclaimed, pointing a finger at his own broad chest. "Nay,
girl, thou'rt joking!"

"Never that!" cried Sada, with impatience. "Thou wert drunk, I tell thee, and he got out of
thee what he would. Thy lord is betrayed, and through thee!"

"Betrayed!" The word stabbed through his dull sodden wits and sent him starting from the couch,
his face gray with horror. He sank back with a groan of sheer physical sickness, and tried
again, his teeth set, the sweat starting on his forehead. His legs trembled under him, and
his eyes were dazed, but he got to the door and leaned against it, his hands over his face.

"If I have done this thing thou sayest," he said hoarsely, "my life is rightly forfeit, and
I shall give it into my lord's hand. I do not understand--I am my lord's man, and loyal." He
turned to her in stunned appeal. "Sada girl, am I drunk, that thou shouldst fill me with this
madness?"

Her eyes filled with tears.

"Nay," she answered sadly. "Thou art sober now."

The fresh air aided what the shock of her words had begun. He mounted, heavily, yet in feverish
desperate haste, whirled his horse about with scarcely a word of farewell to her, and struck
the heavy spurs deep. The beast sprang forward, with a shower of sparks from the cobbles.

Sada, returning from the door, ran into the arms of a thin slip of a girl, white-faced and
with burning eyes, who caught her and cried desperately:

"What said he of Nicanor? What have they done to him? Does he live still?"

"Peace, child!" said Sada. "Now he hath thought for nothing but this thing which he hath done,
and I with him. But last night he did tell me that this friend of his, thy lover, hath been
sent to the mines, and that he had been of the guard."

"And I not to know!" cried Eldris, bitterly. "He might have told me how he looked and what
he said; and now he hath gone, and I may not ask him--"

"Ay, and I think that I shall never see him more. For surely his lord will slay him when he
knows what he hath done," said Sada.

Suddenly she put her head on Eldris's shoulder and wept; and Eldris, by way of showing sympathy,
having love sorrows of her own, put her arms about her and wept also.

II

The lord Eudemius laid himself upon his couch of ebon and carved ivory with the air of a man
whose work has been well done. Midnight was long gone, the great house was quiet, and the desire
of his heart stood forth in fulfilment. He had a son; his dying house was propped with fresh
strength and vigor, and the gods of the shades might claim him when they would. One week ago
had the marriage been celebrated. Each night since there had been feasts, with at every feast
new dishes contrived, new sports and entertainments offered, new souvenirs of price distributed,
to provide the jaded senses of his guests with fresh gratification. Now the festivities were
nearly over; already some of the lords had gone. Among them was Count Pomponius, with his Wardens
of the Eastern Marches, for it was reported that Saxons were again harrying and burning along
the coast.

In the mellow light of the bronze lamps the face of Eudemius showed softer, less inscrutable,
with eyes more kindly. On it was great weariness, but also a great content. He put forth a
hand and touched the bell on the stand beside his couch. The strain under which he had labored
was lifting; he could afford to relax. The silvery tinkle of sound had scarcely fallen into
the quiet of the room when Mycon, chief of the eunuchs, entered, parting the curtains, with
his arms crossed before his face.

"Bid Cyrrus bring hither his lyre," said Eudemius.

Many and many a day had gone since their dark lord had given such command; the cries and groans
of his slaves had been music enough for him. Mycon bowed in silence and went. Before five minutes
had fled, word of the miracle had gone from end to end of the ranks of those whose duty it
was to watch the house by night; and weary men and women smiled and blessed their little lady,
who perhaps had bought for them the dawn of a happier day.

Cyrrus the musician entered, a slender Greek boy; and the low light was caught by the silver
frame of the lyre he bore, and rippled on its strings. He put himself where he should not be
too much under his lord's eyes, and played; and as though the instinct of his art had taught
him what to do, the music he played was plaintive and low and soothing. Eudemius lay with arms
behind his head and stared at the painted ceiling where naked nereids sported. By slow degrees,
still more his hard face softened; under the spell of the music and of his thoughts his thin
lips parted to a smile. Slow and soft the melody rippled into the quiet room, singing of placid
waters smiling in the sun, with lilies floating on their bosom, of young fleecy clouds and
tender shadows. Again it changed, with dropping notes like tears, and whispered of the yearning
hopes of men, of world pain and heart's peace, of longings unfulfilled and prayers unanswered.
Two tears, the slow and difficult tears of age, stole down Eudemius's gray furrowed cheeks
and lost themselves in his silken pillow.

"My child!" he whispered. "My little, little child!"

In that moment the pathetic unloved beauty of her came nearer to touching him than ever before.
He forgot that he had sold her into bondage; forgot that her happiness might not lie along
the road of his. She had done what he would have her do; she had been a dutiful daughter, and
at the last he rejoiced in her.

Varia, at that hour, sat alone in her chamber, awaiting the coming of her lord. There were
traces of tears upon her cheeks; her lids drooped with weariness and sleep. They had taken
away her robes of state, in which she had sat by Marius's side through interminable hours of
merrymaking, when a thousand eyes had stared at her from a swimming sea of lights, and she
had shrunk and trembled beneath their glances. They had put upon her a thin robe of Seres silk
of rose, with no ornament or jewel upon it. With bare neck and arms, and warm white throat
bending with the drooping flower of her head, she looked more than ever a child. To all that
they had done to her throughout the endless days of festival, she had submitted docilely, dazed,
if she could have told it, by the excitement of those around her. Faces, scenes, events, had
passed before her in a blurred confusion, in which she could neither think nor see clearly.
She had repeated words of whose meaning she had no knowledge; she had drunk wine and only been
distressed that a drop had fallen upon her royal robe; she had broken a cake of bread and only
wondered why her little black slave was not there to gather up the crumbs. Of her lord she
had seen little, save upon one fearful night of which the memory still sent burning shudders
through her frightened heart. She drifted upon a gray sea of loneliness, torn from her old
shelters, given nothing to which she might turn and cling.

She got up from the chair covered with rugs of white fur, in which she had been nestling like
a great rose, and went to the window which looked upon the garden, all her movements restless,
like some shy creature caged. Now the garden lay deserted, desolate in the mistiness of the
moonlight. She held her arms out to it in vague yearning.

"I would I were out there now!" she cried softly. "Where the trees whisper and the lake sleeps,
and none but may hear the music of one voice. He is gone--he is gone from me, and I know not
where they have taken him. And I long for him; I would I could creep into his arms and rest
upon his breast forever, for then I should not be frightened. Now I am left alone--I know not
where to turn for very fear--my head it burneth and my hands are cold. And I fear to be alone--and
the night is dark--so dark!"

A gust of wind rose slowly through the trees, like the flapping of unseen wings, and Varia
shivered. The moon was now and again obscured under vast driving clouds; through the gloom
trees massed themselves into blots of sinister shadow. When the wind's voice died, the earth
hung silent, in suspense, so that Varia held her breath in sheer unconscious attunement to
it. In the garden she saw a black shape flying with quick darting swoops. She knew it for a
bat, but her eyes dilated with nervous fright. It was so very still--in all the world there
was no sound at all. She glanced fearfully over her shoulder. Even the lighted room was not
reassuring; it also held the same waiting stillness which she dared not break by so much as
a sigh. Only the flame from the perfumed lamps flickered wanly in the draught. Her wide eyes
fixed themselves upon the window, striving to pierce the mystery of the dark without; she yielded
helplessly to the sway of the vast unnamed forces around her, a child frightened in the night.
She sank upon the floor by the window, hiding her face.

"Nerissa!" she called in a small and shaken voice, and wept, more frightened at the little
cry drowned in the tense stillness. Never had she been so alone in her life; never so frightened.
She clung to the window, crouched as small as possible, not daring to look up.

And across the night a sound grew out of the void and came to her, and her face blanched, and
she caught at her throat with shaking hands. Faint, elusive, coming from very far away, to
be felt rather than heard, it was now like the distant trampling of the feet of many men, now
like the rush of water over stones, now like the whisper of the wind in trees, scarcely a thing
apart from the silence which enfolded and engulfed it. It was a voice from nowhere, warning
her straining senses of unknown and sinister things to come.

"Why, sweetheart, art hiding from me?" a voice said almost at her ear, and Varia, taken unawares
and startled out of all control, screamed aloud and shrank lower into her corner, sobbing violently.

Marius stooped over her and took her hands away from her face.

"What is wrong?" he demanded. "Why these tears, little wife?"

"It was so dark!" Varia wailed. "And there was no sound at all, and then there was a sound--"

She wept again, her fresh terrors submerging even her fear of him.

Marius picked her up in his arms, carried her to the couch, and laid her there, and a moment
she clung to his hand desperately. He was something human to hold to; so she would have clung
to Nerissa, or even to Mycon.

"Afraid of the dark!" Marius scoffed gently. "Well, I am here now, and there is nothing shall
harm thee. Of a truth, I did begin to think the feast would never have an end. The more I burned
to be done with it and come to thee, the more the minutes dragged. I pictured thee, awaiting
me here in thy secret bower; thy flushing face and the veiling shadow of thy hair, thy denying
hands and averted glances--and thy father's guests might well have thought me a love-sick fool,
thinking of nothing but his secret hope that his mistress might prove kind."

Varia sat upright on the couch and put her feet upon the floor, and his eyes followed the gracious
outlines of her form beneath its drapery of rose. She pushed her hair back from her eyes and
looked at him. Slow crimson spread from throat to brow; her glance wavered and fell. Quite
suddenly she put both hands to her face, hiding her eyes from his, and turned her face away.
It was a gesture of a child, infinitely touching, all-betraying in its pure artlessness. He
started toward her, his dark eyes keen; and she sat quite still, passive to this fate of hers
from which flight no longer might avail her. But with the touch of his hand upon her shoulder
there came a soft insistent knocking at the door.

Marius smothered a curse and strode to open it. Mycon stood upon the threshold, and in the
lamplight his face showed gray. He stammered like one caught in guilt.

"Lord, thy pardon! There is trouble without, and the master sends to ask my lord's presence.
We be encompassed by barbarians who have crept upon us."

"Tell thy lord I come," said Marius. Varia was forgotten; scarcely had the slave vanished down
the corridor when Marius was after him, leaving his bride alone.

Now in the villa were to be heard the first sounds of people aroused from sleep to find themselves
in the midst of unknown dangers. Voices, frightened and impatient, echoed back and forth along
the corridors; lights gleamed across the courts. Men and women, half dressed, began to appear,
questioning feverishly, delivering themselves of theories to any who would listen.

"They say that if he will surrender Felix they will depart at once in peace."

"How came they to know that he was here? Who told them?"

"He will not surrender Felix--"

"If he does not--holy gods!--we shall all be slain and plundered."

And above all, a woman's voice:

"I will not stay to be robbed! I shall leave this house at once!"

In the great court men had gathered about Eudemius and Marius, who held hasty consultation.
Felix, pale, nursing carefully his wounded arm, was on the outskirts of the group. His face
all unconsciously betrayed his state of mind. It was white and flaccid; and at every yelp of
the hounds outside who clamored for his life, he cringed and quivered. But he was very quiet,
and the talk surged over his head as though he had not been there. Men cast glances of scorn
unveiled upon him, but he was long past caring what they thought. He wanted his life; his eyes
craved protection. In his face was a desperate dumb reliance on the pride and honor of Eudemius,
which would not allow him to surrender one who had claimed his hospitality; craven himself,
he yet recognized and centred all his faith upon this stern and scornful pride which must uphold
its traditions at whatever cost.

Several of the younger lords who had been or were then in military service came forth, offering
themselves, not at all averse, it would seem, to such variation in the entertainment. A handful
of drunken barbarians--what were these? Upon them and upon Marius the defence of the villa
devolved. Marius gave his orders swiftly, and one by one his lieutenants sped away. All slaves
capable of bearing arms were to be equipped at once from the armory. Men were already stationed
at intervals along the outer walls to guard against surprise. The house seethed with uproar,
which no efforts of discipline could quench. Women wept and clung together, terrified each
by the others' terror. They huddled in bunches around the walls, catching at every man who
would pause to speak with them. Yes, there had been a barbarian even within the hall, a great
fellow, tall as the house, who spat fire and spoke Latin as no Roman had ever heard Latin spoken
before. Ay, truly, all the gods might witness that he had spat fire. And then he had left,
taking back to his dogs of comrades their lord's refusal to yield up his guest. So there would
be an attack, and men had many other things to do than to be stopped and chattered to by foolish
women. Mingled always with the lamentations of these was men's shouting, a trampling of many
feet, a swift confusion. The lights, continually fanned by the passing of people, began to
take on a lurid glare. In the wind which blew about the crowded court, cressets flared horribly,
with very evil-smelling smoke. Their light fell waveringly on jewels and golden collars and
rich robes, and on burnished weapons in the hands of slaves. Long since had the porter fled
from his lodge, and his place was taken by a score of eager defenders.

Marius snatched a moment from the importunities of those who would know the precise state of
their danger, and exactly how long it must be before they should all be slain, and ran up the
stairs which led to the upper rooms. He felt his way through the darkness until he came upon
a window, very narrow and small, so high that he could overlook the rest of the house and by
leaning out see something of what went on in front. And at what he saw he gave an exclamation,
sharp and low, and his eyes glittered like those of a warhorse which scents battle. For all
below him were lights which glinted in and out across the night; and to his trained ears rose
the stamp and snort of stallions held in check, and the stir and rustle of many men. How many
he could not tell, for the moon, fighting her way through a smother of clouds, gave scarce
light to see, and in the trees the shadows were delusive.

A man's voice shouted; other voices took it up, until a seething bubble of sound, hoarse and
significant, eddied around the house and lost itself in distance. A stealthy stir and movement
heaved itself from among the shadows; there was the clank of a weapon against an iron stirrup;
vague forms seemed to circle more closely about the house. The voice shouted again and was
answered by a scurry of horses' feet.

"There be more than I had thought," Marius muttered, and turned to go. "And they are not all
mounted. Also I think that they will try to take the door by storm. Well, they can try! More
than two may play at that game!"

In time, those without began an attempt to batter their way in, so that Marius proclaimed them
very drunk and more foolish. He said nothing of his suspicion that this was merely intended
to mask an attack in some other quarter, and was inclined to be scornful of this untried foe.
So that some of the old men, taking no consideration of the fact that although his words were
light his actions were prompt and well-planned, became timid, and the shrieks of the women
redoubled at every assault upon the door. He strove to assure them that if their besiegers
did break in, they could get no further for the bristling hedge of swords and spears which
waited. But to this the timid ones replied with reason that they did not want them in at all.
Various guests began to take it in their heads that this was not the entertainment they had
come for; and in an access of the strange panic which is liable to plunge even the most sober
crowd into blind folly, if nothing worse, collected their valuables and their attendants and
prepared incontinently to fly from the house. Greatly their wrath raged when Marius refused
to let them out. They muttered that the heads of upstarts were easily turned by a little power,
and they had rather be slain in the open than butchered like rats in their hole.

And at this, the first hint of insubordination among his forces, Marius became no longer the
easy-going gallant whom most of them had known, but a being new and strange. He sprang to the
mastery of the situation by, as it were, divine right, a right which was his by grace of the
power that had trained him to face and control crises such as these. He treated these high-born
lords and ladies as though they had been squads of mutinous recruits; he lashed them with his
glance; he no longer requested, he ordered. His voice held a rasp which none had ever heard,
and which brought them from displeased dignity to instant and abject obedience. He spared none,--faded
voluptuary, whining graybeard, nor restive youth; in an hour he had bullied and frightened
them into working like galley-slaves, and all the house was under the iron discipline of his camp.

       *       *       *       *       *

In her chamber, Varia, in all her terror and loneliness, was forgotten. About her was an insistent
clamor of confusion; she stood in the middle of the room, dazed and overwhelmed by it, the
light flowing softly over her. Now and again a shouted order was flung across the tumult; with
this there began presently to mingle sounds from without. In the corridor words flew by her,
whose meaning she scarcely comprehended.

"They have taken a tree to batter down the door--"

"My lord Marius saith we are not to use the boiling pitch until he gives command."

"He was crossing the court and an arrow fell from heaven and smote him."

"Thou liest, fool! It came in at a window!"

And almost in her ears, so close it seemed, a masterful voice shouted:

"Where is that fat beast Hito who hath the keys?" and was gone like smoke.

And Hito's name was taken up and tossed from hall to hall; she heard it now near, now far,
in the midst of the rush of hasty footsteps and the tangle of voices. A scream pierced through
the clamor and hung a moment above all other sounds; someone was wounded. She had a vision
of Claudius the physician brushing by her half-open door. As from a mist of terror she saw
the flying of his skirt and the gleam of his silver beard. The actual point of attack was too
far away for her to know what went on. She began to draw her breath in small gasping sobs,
glancing this way and that, as one who longs to flee and dares not.

A sound in the garden caught her ears; from where she stood she strained her eyes to see. Only
the armed man on guard behind the little narrow door, vine-hung, which led to the outer world.
The man, though she could not see him for the darkness, was short and fat, and his little pig's
eyes were glazed with fear. But there came other sounds; and a black figure heaved itself above
the wall, on the outer side, against the starlight, and tottered insecurely there. And then
that armed man squealed, and cast his weapon on the ground, and knelt; and this also she could
not see. Nor could she hear the words which the black figure on the wall flung down, nor what
was answered, abjectly, with prayers and promises. She did not see the dark bulk slide scrambling
down the wall, landing cat-like on its feet; she did not see it struggle a moment with the
kneeling man who tried to rise and flee, and thrust him forward on his face. Again new sounds
reached her out of all the uproar on the other side of the house; the grating of a key, the
thud of feet upon the sward. Black figures came headlong out of the night; there was a clash
of spurs on the marble steps; and one man, and another, and a third, leaped into the lighted room.

First of them all was a short man, bowed in the legs, with a red scrub of beard and yellow
eyes which gleamed at her. And those behind him were great and blond and bearded, with drawn
daggers, and round shields of bull's hide on their left arms. They crowded on the heels of
the foremost, and stopped short, staring in the brilliant light at the palpitating figure of rose.

Until then Varia had shrunk and wept and trembled, a terrified child, alone, with no hand to
cling to. But as the first barbarian crossed her threshold, she faced him, a desperate, tender
thing at bay. Unknown, unreckoned with, there lurked within her the strange race-instinct,
born of blood in which was no drop of craven blood, and of caste which was greater than that
of kings. She was the product of her day and her environment; but she was the product also
of her mighty past, of great men who had fought and ruled their world, and great women who
had ruled with them. It was instinct, dumb and blind, but it held her on her feet, facing them,
though her eyes were frozen with terror; and she obeyed it because she had no sense or will
to disobey.

