"The result of all this you can easily conjecture.  Robert Barnet abandoned the sea, and, with
the aid of some of his friends, purchased the farm where he now lives, and the anniversary
of his shipwreck found him the husband of Julia.  I can assure you I have had every reason
to congratulate myself on my share in the match-making.  Nobody ventured to find fault with
it except two or three sour old busybodies, who, as Elder Staples well says, 'would have cursed
her whom Christ had forgiven, and spurned the weeping Magdalen from the feet of her Lord.'"

                              CHAPTER IV.

                             BY THE SPRING.

IT was one of the very brightest and breeziest of summer mornings that the Doctor and myself
walked homeward from the town poor-house, where he had always one or more patients, and where
his coming was always welcomed by the poor, diseased, and age-stricken inmates.  Dark, miserable
faces of lonely and unreverenced age, written over with the grim records of sorrow and sin,
seemed to brighten at his approach as with an inward light, as if the good man's presence had
power to call the better natures of the poor unfortunates into temporary ascendency. Weary,
fretful women--happy mothers in happy homes, perchance, half a century before--felt their hearts
warm and expand under the influence of his kind salutations and the ever-patient good-nature
with which he listened to their reiterated complaints of real or imaginary suffering. However
it might be with others, he never forgot the man or the woman in the pauper.  There was nothing
like condescension or consciousness in his charitable ministrations; for he was one of the
few men I have ever known in whom the milk of human kindness was never soured by contempt for
humanity in whatever form it presented itself.  Thus it was that his faithful performance of
the duties of his profession, however repulsive and disagreeable, had the effect of Murillo's
picture of St. Elizabeth of Hungary binding up the ulcered limbs of the beggars.  The moral
beauty transcended the loathsomeness of physical evil and deformity.

Our nearest route home lay across the pastures and over Blueberry Hill, just at the foot of
which we encountered Elder Staples and Skipper Evans, who had been driving their cows to pasture,
and were now leisurely strolling back to the village.  We toiled together up the hill in the
hot sunshine, and, just on its eastern declivity, were glad to find a white-oak tree, leaning
heavily over a little ravine, from the bottom of which a clear spring of water bubbled up and
fed a small rivulet, whose track of darker green might be traced far down the hill to the meadow
at its foot.

A broad shelf of rock by the side of the spring, cushioned with mosses, afforded us a comfortable
resting-place.  Elder Staples, in his faded black coat and white neck-cloth, leaned his quiet,
contemplative head on his silver-mounted cane: right opposite him sat the Doctor, with his
sturdy, rotund figure, and broad, seamed face, surmounted by a coarse stubble of iron-gray
hair, the sharp and almost severe expression of his keen gray eyes, flashing under their dark
penthouse, happily relieved by the softer lines of his mouth, indicative of his really genial
and generous nature.  A small, sinewy figure, half doubled up, with his chin resting on his
rough palms, Skipper Evans sat on a lower projection of the rock just beneath him, in an attentive
attitude, as at the feet of Gatnaliel.  Dark and dry as one of his own dunfish on a Labrador
flake, or a seal-skin in an Esquimaux hut, he seemed entirely exempt from one of the great
trinity of temptations; and, granting him a safe deliverance from the world and the devil,
he had very little to fear from the flesh.

We were now in the Doctor's favorite place of resort, green, cool, quiet, and sightly withal.
The keen light revealed every object in the long valley below us; the fresh west wind fluttered
the oakleaves above; and the low voice of the water, coaxing or scolding its way over bare
roots or mossy stones, was just audible.

"Doctor," said I, "this spring, with the oak hanging over it, is, I suppose, your Fountain
of Bandusia.  You remember what Horace says of his spring, which yielded such cool refreshment
when the dog-star had set the day on fire.  What a fine picture he gives us of this charming
feature of his little farm!"

The Doctor's eye kindled.  "I'm glad to see you like Horace; not merely as a clever satirist
and writer of amatory odes, but as a true lover of Nature.  How pleasant are his simple and
beautiful descriptions of his yellow, flowing Tiber, the herds and herdsmen, the harvesters,
the grape vintage, the varied aspects of his Sabine retreat in the fierce summer heats, or
when the snowy forehead of Soracte purpled in winter sunsets! Scattered through his odes and
the occasional poems which he addresses to his city friends, you find these graceful and inimitable
touches of rural beauty, each a picture in itself."

"It is long since I have looked at my old school-day companions, the classics," said Elder
Staples; "but I remember Horace only as a light, witty, careless epicurean, famous for his
lyrics in praise of Falernian wine and questionable women."

"Somewhat too much of that, doubtless," said the Doctor; "but to me Horace is serious and profoundly
suggestive, nevertheless.  Had I laid him aside on quitting college, as you did, I should perhaps
have only remembered such of his epicurean lyrics as recommended themselves to the warns fancy
of boyhood.  Ah, Elder Staples, there was a time when the Lyces and Glyceras of the poet were
no fiction to us.  They played blindman's buff with us in the farmer's kitchen, sang with us
in the meeting-house, and romped and laughed with us at huskings and quilting- parties.  Grandmothers
and sober spinsters as they now are, the change in us is perhaps greater than in them."

"Too true," replied the Elder, the smile which had just played over his pale face fading into
something sadder than its habitual melancholy. "The living companions of our youth, whom we
daily meet, are more strange to us than the dead in yonder graveyard.  They alone remain unchanged!"

"Speaking of Horace," continued the Doctor, in a voice slightly husky with feeling, "he gives
us glowing descriptions of his winter circles of friends, where mirth and wine, music and beauty,
charm away the hours, and of summer-day recreations beneath the vine-wedded elms of the Tiber
or on the breezy slopes of Soracte; yet I seldom read them without a feeling of sadness.  A
low wail of inappeasable sorrow, an undertone of dirges, mingles with his gay melodies.  His
immediate horizon is bright with sunshine; but beyond is a land of darkness, the light whereof
is darkness.  It is walled about by the everlasting night.  The skeleton sits at his table;
a shadow of the inevitable terror rests upon all his pleasant pictures.  He was without God
in the world; he had no clear abiding hope of a life beyond that which was hastening to a close.
Eat and drink, he tells us; enjoy present health and competence; alleviate present evils, or
forget them, in social intercourse, in wine, music, and sensual indulgence; for to-morrow we
must die.  Death was in his view no mere change of condition and relation; it was the black
end of all.  It is evident that he placed no reliance on the mythology of his time, and that
he regarded the fables of the Elysian Fields and their dim and wandering ghosts simply in the
light of convenient poetic fictions for illustration and imagery.  Nothing can, in my view,
be sadder than his attempts at consolation for the loss of friends. Witness his Ode to Virgil
on the death of Quintilius.  He tells his illustrious friend simply that his calamity is without
hope, irretrievable and eternal; that it is idle to implore the gods to restore the dead; and
that, although his lyre may be more sweet than that of Orpheus, he cannot reanimate the shadow
of his friend nor persuade 'the ghost-compelling god' to unbar the gates of death.  He urges
patience as the sole resource.  He alludes not unfrequently to his own death in the same despairing
tone.  In the Ode to Torquatus,--one of the most beautiful and touching of all he has written,--he
sets before his friend, in melancholy contrast, the return of the seasons, and of the moon
renewed in brightness, with the end of man, who sinks into the endless dark, leaving nothing
save ashes and shadows.  He then, in the true spirit of his philosophy, urges Torquatus to
give his present hour and wealth to pleasures and delights, as he had no assurance of to-morrow."

"In something of the same strain," said I, "Moschus moralizes on the death of Bion:--

               Our trees and plants revive; the rose
               In annual youth of beauty glows;
               But when the pride of Nature dies,
               Man, who alone is great and wise,
               No more he rises into light,
               The wakeless sleeper of eternal night.'"

"It reminds me," said Elder Staples, "of the sad burden of Ecclesiastes, the mournfulest book
of Scripture; because, while the preacher dwells with earnestness upon the vanity and uncertainty
of the things of time and sense, he has no apparent hope of immortality to relieve the dark
picture.  It seems to me the wise man might have gone farther in his enumeration of the folly
and emptiness of life, and pronounced his own prescription for the evil vanity also.  What
is it but plucking flowers on the banks of the stream which hurries us over the cataract, or
feasting on the thin crust of a volcano upon delicate meats prepared over the fires which are
soon to ingulf us?  Oh, what a glorious contrast to this is the gospel of Him who brought to
light life and immortality!  The transition from the Koheleth to the Epistles of Paul is like
passing from a cavern, where the artificial light falls indeed upon gems and crystals, but
is everywhere circumscribed and overshadowed by unknown and unexplored darkness, into the warm
light and free atmosphere of day."

"Yet," I asked, "are there not times when we all wish for some clearer evidence of immortal
life than has been afforded us; when we even turn away unsatisfied from the pages of the holy
book, with all the mysterious problems of life pressing about us and clamoring for solution,
till, perplexed and darkened, we look up to the still heavens, as if we sought thence an answer,
visible or audible, to their questionings?  We want something beyond the bare announcement
of the momentous fact of a future life; we long for a miracle to confirm our weak faith and
silence forever the doubts which torment us."

"And what would a miracle avail us at such times of darkness and strong temptation?"  said
the Elder.  "Have we not been told that they whom Moses and the prophets have failed to convince
would not believe although one rose from the dead?  That God has revealed no more to us is
to my mind sufficient evidence that He has revealed enough."

"May it not be," queried the Doctor, "that Infinite Wisdom sees that a clearer and fuller revelation
of the future life would render us less willing or able to perform our appropriate duties in
the present condition?  Enchanted by a clear view of the heavenly hills, and of our loved ones
beckoning us from the pearl gates of the city of God, could we patiently work out our life-task
here, or make the necessary exertions to provide for the wants of these bodies whose encumbrance
alone can prevent us from rising to a higher plane of existence?"

"I reckon," said the Skipper, who had been an attentive, although at times evidently a puzzled,
listener, "that it would be with us pretty much as it was with a crew of French sailors that
I once shipped at the Isle of France for the port of Marseilles.  I never had better hands
until we hove in sight of their native country, which they had n't seen for years.  The first
look of the land set 'em all crazy; they danced, laughed, shouted, put on their best clothes;
and I had to get new hands to help me bring the vessel to her moorings."

"Your story is quite to the point, Skipper," said the Doctor.  "If things had been ordered
differently, we should all, I fear, be disposed to quit work and fall into absurdities, like
your French sailors, and so fail of bringing the world fairly into port."

"God's ways are best," said the Elder; "and I don't see as we can do better than to submit
with reverence to the very small part of them which He has made known to us, and to trust Him
like loving and dutiful children for the rest."

                               CHAPTER V.

                             THE HILLSIDE.

THE pause which naturally followed the observation of the Elder was broken abruptly by the Skipper.

"Hillo!" he cried, pointing with the glazed hat with which he had been fanning himself.  "Here
away in the northeast.  Going down the coast for better fishing, I guess."

"An eagle, as I live!" exclaimed the Doctor, following with his cane the direction of the Skipper's
hat.  "Just see how royally he wheels upward and onward, his sail-broad wings stretched motionless,
save an occasional flap to keep up his impetus!  Look! the circle in which he moves grows narrower;
he is a gray cloud in the sky, a point, a mere speck or dust-mote.  And now he is clean swallowed
up in the distance. The wise man of old did well to confess his ignorance of 'the way of an
eagle in the air.'"

"The eagle," said Elder Staples, "seems to have been a favorite illustration of the sacred
penman.  'They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount upward
as on the wings of an eagle.'"

"What think you of this passage?"  said the Doctor.  "'As when a bird hath flown through the
air, there is no token of her way to be found; but the light air, beaten with the stroke of
her wings and parted by the violent noise and motion thereof, is passed through, and therein
afterward no sign of her path can be found.'

"I don't remember the passage," said the Elder.

"I dare say not," quoth the Doctor.  "You clergymen take it for granted that no good thing
can come home from the Nazareth of the Apocrypha. But where will you find anything more beautiful
and cheering than these verses in connection with that which I just cited?--'The hope of the
ungodly is like dust that is blown away by the wind; like the thin foam which is driven by
the storm; like the smoke which is scattered here and there by the whirlwind; it passeth away
like the remembrance of a guest that tarrieth but a day.  But the righteous live forevermore;
their reward also is with the Lord, and the care of them with the Most High. Therefore shall
they receive a glorious kingdom and a beautiful crown from the Lord's hand; for with his right
hand shall He cover them, and with his arm shall He protect them.'"

"That, if I mistake not, is from the Wisdom of Solomon," said the Elder. "It is a striking
passage; and there are many such in the uncanonical books."

"Canonical or not," answered the Doctor, "it is God's truth, and stands in no need of the endorsement
of a set of well-meaning but purblind bigots and pedants, who presumed to set metes and bounds
to Divine inspiration, and decide by vote what is God's truth and what is the Devil's falsehood.
But, speaking of eagles, I never see one of these spiteful old sea-robbers without fancying
that he may be the soul of a mad Viking of the middle centuries.  Depend upon it, that Italian
philosopher was not far out of the way in his ingenious speculations upon the affinities and
sympathies existing between certain men and certain animals, and in fancying that he saw feline
or canine traits and similitudes in the countenances of his acquaintance."

"Swedenborg tells us," said I, "that lost human souls in the spiritual world, as seen by the
angels, frequently wear the outward shapes of the lower animals,--for instance, the gross and
sensual look like swine, and the cruel and obscene like foul birds of prey, such as hawks and
vultures,--and that they are entirely unconscious of the metamorphosis, imagining themselves
marvellous proper men,' and are quite well satisfied with their company and condition."

"Swedenborg," said the Elder, "was an insane man, or worse."

"Perhaps so," said the Doctor; "but there is a great deal of 'method in his madness,' and plain
common sense too.  There is one grand and beautiful idea underlying all his revelations or
speculations about the future life.  It is this: that each spirit chooses its own society,
and naturally finds its fitting place and sphere of action,--following in the new life, as
in the present, the leading of its prevailing loves and desires,--and that hence none are arbitrarily
compelled to be good or evil, happy or miserable.  A great law of attraction and gravitation
governs the spiritual as well as the material universe; but, in obeying it, the spirit retains
in the new life whatever freedom of will it possessed in its first stage of being.  But I see
the Elder shakes his head, as much as to say, I am 'wise above what is written,' or, at any
rate, meddling with matters beyond my comprehension.  Our young friend here," he continued,
turning to me, "has the appearance of a listener; but I suspect he is busy with his own reveries,
or enjoying the fresh sights and sounds of this fine morning.  I doubt whether our discourse
has edified him."

"Pardon me," said I; "I was, indeed, listening to another and older oracle."

"Well, tell us what you hear," said the Doctor.

"A faint, low murmur, rising and falling on the wind.  Now it comes rolling in upon me, wave
after wave of sweet, solemn music.  There was a grand organ swell; and now it dies away as
into the infinite distance; but I still hear it,--whether with ear or spirit I know not,--the
very ghost of sound."

"Ah, yes," said the Doctor; "I understand it is the voice of the pines yonder,--a sort of morning
song of praise to the Giver of life and Maker of beauty.  My ear is dull now, and I cannot
hear it; but I know it is sounding on as it did when I first climbed up here in the bright
June mornings of boyhood, and it will sound on just the same when the deafness of the grave
shall settle upon my failing senses.  Did it never occur to you that this deafness and blindness
to accustomed beauty and harmony is one of the saddest thoughts connected with the great change
which awaits us?  Have you not felt at times that our ordinary conceptions of heaven itself,
derived from the vague hints and Oriental imagery of the Scriptures, are sadly inadequate to
our human wants and hopes?  How gladly would we forego the golden streets and gates of pearl,
the thrones, temples, and harps, for the sunset lights of our native valleys; the woodpaths,
whose moss carpets are woven with violets and wild flowers; the songs of birds, the low of
cattle, the hum of bees in the apple-blossom,--the sweet, familiar voices of human life and
nature!  In the place of strange splendors and unknown music, should we not welcome rather
whatever reminded us of the common sights and sounds of our old home?"

"You touch a sad chord, Doctor," said I.  "Would that we could feel assured of the eternity
of all we love!"

