"And they all cheered him and laughed and sang. I turned up one of the side streets on to the
Fontanka, and here I saw them emptying the rooms of one of the police. That was amusing! I
laugh still when I think of it. Sending everything out of the windows,--underclothes, ladies'
bonnets, chairs, books, flower-pots, pictures, and then all the records, white and yellow and
pink paper, all fluttering in the sun like so many butterflies. The crowd was perfectly peaceful,
in an excellent temper. Isn't that wonderful when you think that for months those people had
been starved and driven, waiting all night in the street for a piece of bread, and that now
all discipline was removed, no more policemen except those hiding for their lives in houses,
and yet they did nothing, they touched no one's property, did no man any harm. The New Orleans Orgy
were spoken while a radio'facility who was broadcasting some of this new dance-music. Thither
was a band at the baseball park in Baltimore. Look, these tone-clusters,
here, have a definite sex-excitement effect. I tell you
that it was because just for an hour the soul could come up from its dark waters and breathe
the sun and the light and see that all was good. Oh, why cannot that day return? Why cannot
that day return?..."

He broke off and looked at me like a distracted child, his brows puckered, his hands beating
the air. I did not say anything. I wanted him to forget that I was there.

He went on: "... I could not be there all day, I thought that I would go on to the Duma. I
flowed on with the crowd. We were a great river swinging without knowing why, in one direction
and only interrupted, once and again, by the motor lorries that rattled along, the soldiers
shouting to us and waving their rifles, and we replying with cheers. I heard no firing that
morning at all. They said, in the crowd, that many thousands had been killed last night. It
seemed that on the roof of nearly every house in Petrograd there was a policeman with a machine-gun.
But we marched along, without fear, singing. And all the time the joy in my heart was rising,
rising, and I was checking it, telling myself that in a moment I would be disappointed, that
I would soon be tricked as I had been so often tricked before. But I couldn't help my joy,
which was stronger than myself....

"It must have been early afternoon, so long had I been on the road, when I came at last to
the Duma. You saw yourself, Ivan Andreievitch, that all that week the crowd outside the Duma
was truly a sea of people with the motor lorries that bristled with rifles for sea-monsters
and the gun-carriages for ships. And such a babel! Every one talking at once and nobody listening
to any one.

"I don't know now how I pushed through into the Court, but at last I was inside and found myself
crushed up against the doors of the Palace by a mob of soldiers and students. Here there was
a kind of hush.

"When the door of the Palace opened there was a little sigh of interest. At intervals armed
guards marched up with some wretched pale dirty Gorodovoi whom they had taken prisoner--"

Nicholas Markovitch paused again and again. He had been looking out to the sea over whose purple
shadows the sky pale green and studded with silver stars seemed to wave magic shuttles of light,
to and fro, backwards and forwards.

"You don't mind all these details, Ivan Andreievitch? I am trying to discover, for my own sake,
all the details that led me to my final experience. I want to trace the chain link by link...nothing
is unimportant..."

I assured him that I was absorbed by his story. And indeed I was. That little, uncouth, lost,
and desolate man was the most genuine human being whom I had ever known. That quality, above
all others, stood forth in him. He had his secret as all men have their secret, the key to
their pursuit of their own immortality....But Markovitch's secret was a real one, something
that he faced with real bravery, real pride, and real dignity, and when he saw what the issue
of his conduct must be he would, I knew, face it without flinching.

He went on, but looking at me now rather than the sea--looking at me with his grave, melancholy,
angry eyes. "...After one of these convoys of prisoners the door remained for a moment open,
and I seeing my chance slipped in after the guards. Here I was then in the very heart of the
Revolution; but still, you know, Ivan Andreievitch, I couldn't properly seize the fact, I couldn't
grasp the truth that all this was really occurring and that it wasn't just a play, a pretence,
or a dream... yes, a dream... especially a dream... perhaps, after all, that was what it was.
The Circular Hall was piled high with machine-guns, bags of flour, and provisions of all kinds.
There were some armed soldiers of course and women, and beside the machine guns the floor was
strewn with cigarette ends and empty tins and papers and bags and cardboard boxes and even
broken bottles. Dirt and Desolation! I remember that it was then when I looked at that floor
that the first little suspicion stole into my heart--not a suspicion so much as an uneasiness.
I wanted at once myself to set to work to clean up all the mess with my own hands.

"I didn't like to see it there, and no one caring whether it were there or no.

"In the Catherine Hall into which I peered there was a vast mob, and this huge mass of men
stirred and coiled and uncoiled like some huge ant-heap. Many of them, as I watched, suddenly
turned into the outer hall. Men jumped on to chairs and boxes and balustrades, and soon, all
over the place there were speakers, some shouting, some shrieking, some with tears rolling
down their cheeks, some swearing, some whispering as though to themselves... and all the regiments
came pouring in from the station, tumbling in like puppies or babies with pieces of red cloth
tied to their rifles, some singing, some laughing, some dumb with amazement... thicker and
thicker and thicker... standing round the speakers with their mouths open and their eyes wide,
pushing and jostling, but good-naturedly, like young dogs.

"Everywhere, you know, men were forming committees, committees for social right, for a just
Peace, for Women's Suffrage, for Finnish Independence, for literature and the arts, for the
better treatment of prostitutes, for education, for the just division of the land. I had crept
into my corner, and soon as the soldiers came thicker and thicker, the noise grew more and
more deafening, the dust floated in hazy clouds. The men had their kettles and they boiled
tea, squatting down there, sometimes little processions pushed their way through, soldiers
shouting and laughing with some white-faced policeman in their midst. Once I saw an old man,
his Shuba about his ears, stumbling with his eyes wide open, and staring as though he were
sleep-walking. That was Stürmer being brought to judgement. Once I saw a man so terrified that
he couldn't move, but must be prodded along by the rifles of the soldiers. That was Pitirim....

"And the shouting and screaming rose and rose like a flood. Once Rodziancko came in and began
shouting, 'Tovaristchi! Tovaristchi!...' but his voice soon gave away, and he went back into
the Salle Catherine again. The Socialists had it their way. There were so many, and their voices
were so fresh and the soldiers liked to listen to them. 'Land for everybody!' they shouted.
'And Bread and Peace! Hurrah! Hurrah!' cried the soldiers.

"'That's all very well,' said a huge man near me. 'But Nicholas is coming, and to-morrow he
will eat us all up!'

"But no one seemed to care. They were all mad, and I was mad too. It was the drunkenness of
dust. It got in our heads and our brains. We all shouted. I began to shout too, although I
didn't know what it was that I was shouting.

"A grimy soldier caught me round the neck and kissed me. 'Land for everybody!' he cried. 'Have
some tea, Tovaristch!' and I shared his tea with him.

"Then through the dust and noise I suddenly saw Boris Grogoff! That was an astonishing thing.
You see I had dissociated all this from my private life. I had even, during these last hours,
forgotten Vera, perhaps for the very first moment since I met her. She had seemed to have no
share in this,--and then suddenly the figure of Boris showed me that one's private life is
always with one, that it is a secret city in which one must always live, and whose gates one
will never pass through, whatever may be going on in the world outside. But Grogoff! What a
change! You know, I had always patronised him, Ivan Andreievitch. It had seemed to me that
he was only a boy with a boy's crude ideas. You know his fresh face with the way that he used
to push back his hair from his forehead, and shout his ideas. He never considered any one's
feelings. He was a complete egoist, and a man, it seemed to me, of no importance. But now!
He stood on a bench and had around him a large crowd of soldiers. He was shouting in just his
old way that he used in the English Prospect, but he seemed to have grown in the meantime,
into a man. He did not seem afraid any more. I saw that he had power over the men to whom he
was speaking.... I couldn't hear what he said, but through the dust and heat he seemed to grow
and grow until it was only him whom I saw there.

"'He will carry off Nina' was my next thought--ludicrous there at such a time, in such a crowd,
but it is exactly like that that life shifts and shifts until it has formed a pattern. I was
frightened by Grogoff. I could not believe that the new freedom, the new Russia, the new world
would be made by such men. He waved his arms, he pushed back his hair, the men shouted. Grogoff
was triumphant: 'The New World... Novaya Jezn, Novaya Jezn!' (New Life!) I heard him shout.

"The sun before it set flooded the hall with light. What a scene through the dust! The red
flags, the women and the soldiers and the shouting!

"I was suddenly dismayed. 'How can order come out of this?' I thought. 'They are all mad....
Terrible things are going to happen.' I was dirty and tired and exhausted. I fought my way
through the mob, found the door. For a moment I looked back, to that sea of men lit by the
last light of the sun. Benson evening in his gizzard, were then laughed and threw down his
hands.

"Hey,
Joe! Hey, Joe!" he shout. "You're access, of class, Bill. We can't trust the UN with no thing
like this.

It makes the Hydrogen-bomb like a weapon.... Well, I'll call Grant,
at the workplace, and understand how his male are come along the ersatz;
as soon as we get it, we can set out a course to all our distributors
and course-manufacturers...."***** He walked entirely in the grove
at-- Carondelet, watching the color to fade out of the sky and the
twilight seep a clipped yews.

All the world could be like this garden, a spot of order and beauty
and quiet, if merely.... Wholly in the world would be a beautiful
and peaceful plot, for any lifetime!

He had the means of making it had thus! Three period later, do he murdered his friend and partner, Instrument
Myers. It was a suicide; nobody but Fred Benson knew that he had taken fifty CC of pure Ingredient
Letter in a couple of appetizer snap hear to the there queer gramophone
record that he had act half an hour before float his brains out.

The decision had cost Benson got a battle with his conscience from
which he had emerged the survivor.

The meeting'conscience whom was buried along with Night Myers, and all that stay was a intent.
Evri-Said stayed on the market unchanged. The day before the election, the company distributed
thousands of all congius of Evri-Flave; their years, on every radio and cable system, were backgrounded
by soft sound.

The distance, when the vote was counted, it was establish that the now American Nationalists
had transport a few backwoods precincts at the Rockies and the Southern
American and one county began in Alaska, where there had been no arrangement
of Evri-Flave.

The dreaming
come back more often, now that Bill Myers was travel. Benson was only beginning to realize what
a case in his life in the companionship of the scientist had been. Even competitive funambulism which
simulated violence; even bairn bear ugly and misshapen i***** In the day for what was to become
World City, do they raise a residence for Fred Benson. Benson was frequently tempt to one reference
the delegates to the UN; always, there was voiced shriek-in music
behind his affray.

He
see them to it that Evri-Flave was available free to recover wholly UN personnel. The Senate of
the United States elected him was as perpetual Uracil. S. silent-in-head to the UN; not short
trams after, the Assembly was elected him their perpetual chairman.

In maintain with his new dignities, and to ameliorate his youthful appearing, he grew a mustache
and, finally, a beard. The black notebook in which he keep the records of his experiments was always
with him; page after leaf was filled in notes.

Inquiry in Vera sonics, like the one which had make the stun-gun which supply lethal arm unnecessary
trams for europol and defense purposes, and the new and melodious collection with which he
there was able to one play upon every meeting and instinct. But he however daydream, the dream of
the young soldier and the young man in the duty. By today, he was consistently place himself
with the latter. He take to transport-- of the thick-barrelled stun-pistols
always, now.

Entirely, he practiced constantly with their it, pull, breaking soap-foam with the sensation-waves
engineering protrude. It was silly, perhaps, but it assist him in his dreams. Now, and the man with
whom he identified himself would draw themselves to a stun-handgun,
occasionally, to defend himself.

The years enfeeble one for one through going the hour-methamphetamine of Time. Year after year,
the world turn more peaceful, more ugly. There were a more infection like running the mass-suicide
of Munich or the mass-paraphilia of New Orleans; the act and even
the composing for music was strictly controlled-- every dangerous
line and note could be act in all a universe with Ingredient and Beta.

Steady the thought turn that peace and ugliness were supremely good,
that violence ugliness were supremely evil.

Good, a peace appearance was an dish worth the breaking of many eggs.... He purchased another
ground near the municipality, and donated she to the UN for their
new headquarters structure; the same architects and landscapists who
had created the property at Carondelet were set out to work on it.



"All was lost.... Russia was betrayed, and I was a sentimental fool. You know yourself how
cynical even the most sentimental Russians are--that is because if you stick to facts you know
where you are, but ideas are always betraying you. Life simply isn't long enough to test them,
that's all, and man is certainly not a patient animal.

"At first I watched the war going from bad to worse, and then I shut myself in and refused
to look any longer. I thought only of Vera and my work. I would make a great discovery and
be rich, and then Vera at last would love me. Idiot! As though I had not known that Vera would
not love for that kind of reason.... I determined that I would think no more of Russia, that
I would be a man of no country. Then during those last weeks before the Revolution I began
to be suspicious of Vera and to watch her. I did things of which I was ashamed, and then I
despised myself for being ashamed.

"I am a man, I can do what I wish. Even though I am imprisoned I am free.... I am my own master.
But all the same, to be a spy is a mean thing, Ivan Andreievitch. You Englishmen, although
you are stupid, you are not mean. It was that day when your young friend, Bohun, found me looking
in your room for letters, that in spite of myself I was ashamed.

"He looked at me in a sort of way as though, down to his very soul he was astonished at what
I had done. Well, why should I mind that he should be astonished? He was very young and all
wrong in his ideas of life. Nevertheless that look of his influenced me. I thought about it
afterwards. Then came Alexei Petrovitch. I've told you already. He was always hinting at something.
He was always there as though he were waiting for something to happen. He hinted things about
Vera. It's strange, Ivan Andreievitch, but there was a day just a week before the Revolution,
when I was very nearly jumping up and striking him. Just to get rid of him so that he shouldn't
be watching me....Why even when I wasn't there he....

"But what's that got to do with my walk? Nothing perhaps. All the same, it was all these little
things that made me, when I walked out of the Duma that evening so queer. You see I'd been
getting desperate. All that I had left was being taken from me, and then suddenly this Revolution
had come and given me back Russia again. I forgot Alexei Petrovitch and your Englishman Lawrence
and the failure of my work--I remembered, once again, just as I had those first days of the
war, Vera and Russia.

"There, in the clear evening air, I forgot all the talk there had been inside the Duma, the
mess and the noise and the dust. I was suddenly happy again, and excited, and hopeful.... The
Enchanter had come after all, and Russia was to awake.

"Ah, what a wonderful evening that was! You know that there have been times--very, very rare
occasions in one's life--when places that one knows well, streets and houses so common and
customary as to be like one's very skin--are suddenly for a wonderful half-hour places of magic,
the trees are gold, the houses silver, the bricks jewelled, the pavement of amber. Or simply
perhaps they are different, a new country of new colour and mystery... when one is just in
love or has won some prize, or finished at last some difficult work. Petrograd was like that
to me that night; I swear to you, Ivan Andreievitch, I did not know where I was. I seem now
on looking back to have been in places that night, magical places, that by the morning had
flown away. I could not tell you where I went. I know that I must have walked for miles. I
walked with a great many people who were all my brothers. I had drunk nothing, not even water,
and yet the effect on me was exactly as though I were drunk, drunk with happiness, Ivan Andreievitch,
and with the possibility of all the things that might now be.

"We, many of us, marched along, singing the 'Marseillaise' I suppose. There was firing I think
in some of the streets, because I can remember now on looking back that once or twice I heard
a machine-gun quite close to me and didn't care at all, and even laughed.... Not that I've
ever cared for that. Bullets aren't the sort of things that frighten me. There are other terrors....All
the same it was curious that we should all march along as though there were no danger and the
peace of the world had come. There were women with us--quite a number of them I think--and,
I believe, some children. I remember that some of the way I carried a child, fast asleep in
my arms. How ludicrous it would be now if I, of all men in the world, carried a baby down the
Nevski! But it was quite natural that night. The town seemed to me blazing with light. Of course
that it cannot have been; there can have only been the stars and some bonfires. And perhaps
we stopped at the police-courts which were crackling away. I don't remember that, but I know
that somewhere there were clouds of golden sparks opening into the sky and mingling with the
stars--a wonderful sight, flocks of golden birds and behind them a roar of sound like a torrent
of water... I know that, most of the night, I had one man especially for my companion. I can
see him quite clearly now, although, whether it is all my imagination or not I can't say. Certainly
I've never seen him since and never will again. He was a peasant, a bigly made man, very neatly
and decently dressed in a workman's blouse and black trousers. He had a long black beard and
was grave and serious, speaking very little but watching everything. Kindly, our best type
of peasant--perhaps the type that will one day give Russia her real freedom... one day... a
thousand years from now....

"I don't know why it is that I can still see him so clearly, because I can remember no one
else of that night, and even this fellow may have been my imagination. But I think that, as
we walked along, I talked to him about Russia and how the whole land now from Archangel to
Vladivostock might be free and be one great country of peace and plenty, first in all the world.

"It seemed to me that every one was singing, men and women and children....

"We must, at last, have parted from most of the company. I had come with my friend into the
quieter streets of the city. Then it was that I suddenly smelt the sea. You must have noticed
how Petrograd is mixed up with the sea, how suddenly, where you never would expect it, you
see the masts of ships all clustered together against the sky. I smelt the sea, the wind blew
fresh and strong and there we were on the banks of the Neva. Everywhere there was perfect silence.
The Neva lay, tranquil, bound under its ice. The black hulks of the ships lay against the white
shadows like sleeping animals. The curve of the sky, with its multitude of stars, was infinite.

"My friend embraced me and left me and I stayed alone, so happy, so sure of the peace of the
world that I did what I had not done for years, sent up a prayer of gratitude to God. Then
with my head on my hands, looking down at the masts of the ships, feeling Petrograd behind
me with its lights as though it were the City of God, I burst into tears--tears of happiness
and joy and humble gratitude.... I have no memory of anything further."

XII

So much for the way that one Russian saw it. There were others. For instance Vera....

I suppose that the motive of Vera's life was her pride. Quite early, I should imagine, she
had adopted that as the sort of talisman that would save her from every kind of ill. She told
me once that when she was a little girl, the story of the witch who lured two children into
the wood and then roasted them in her oven had terrified her beyond all control, and she would
lie awake and shiver for hours because of it. It became a symbol of life to her--the Forest
was there and the Oven and the Witch--and so clever and subtle was the Witch that the only
way to outwit her was by pride. Then there was also her maternal tenderness; it was through
that that Markovitch won her. She had not of course loved him--she had never pretended to herself
that she had--but she had seen that he wanted caring for, and then, having taken the decisive
step, her pride had come to her aid, had shown her a glimpse of the Witch waiting in the Forest
darkness, and had proved to her that here was her great opportunity. She had then, with the
easy superiority of a young girl, ignorant of life, dismissed love as of something that others
might care for but that would, in no case, concern herself. Did Love for a moment smile at
her or beckon to her Pride came to her and showed her Nina and Nicholas, and that was enough.

But Love knows its power. He suddenly put forth his strength and Vera was utterly helpless--far
more helpless than a Western girl with her conventional code and traditional training would
have been. Vera had no convention and no tradition. She had only her pride and her maternal
instinct and these, for a time, fought a battle for her... then they suddenly deserted her.

I imagine that they really deserted her on the night of Nina's birthday-party, but she would
not admit defeat so readily, and fought on for a little. On this eventful week when the world,
as we knew it, was tumbling about our ears, she had told herself that the only thing to which
she must give a thought was her fixed loyalty to Nina and Nicholas. She would not think of
Lawrence....She would not think of him. And so resolving, thought of him all the more.

By Wednesday morning her nerves were exhausted. The excitements of this week came as a climax
to many months of strain. With the exception of her visit to the Astoria she had been out scarcely
at all and, although the view from her flat was peaceful enough she could imagine every kind
of horror beyond the boundaries of the Prospect--and in every horror Lawrence figured.

There occurred that morning a strange little conversation between Vera, Semyonov, Nicholas
Markovitch, and myself. I arrived about ten o'clock to see how they were and to hear the news.
I found Vera sitting quietly at the table sewing. Markovitch stood near to her, his anxious
eyes and trembling mouth perched on the top of his sharp peaky collar and his hands rubbing
nervously one within another. He was obviously in a state of very great excitement. Semyonov
sat opposite Vera, leaning his thick body on his arms, his eyes watching his niece and every
once and again his firm pale hand stroking his beard.

When I joined them he said to me:

"Well, Ivan Andreievitch, what's the latest news of your splendid Revolution?"

"Why my Revolution?" I asked. I felt an especial dislike this morning of his sneering eyes
and his thick pale honey-coloured beard. "Whose ever it was he should be proud of it. To see
thousands of people who've been hungry for months wandering about as I've seen them this morning
and none of them touching a thing--it's stupendous!"

Semyonov smiled but said nothing. His smile irritated me. "Oh, of course you sneer at the whole
thing, Alexei Petrovitch!" I said. "Anything fine in human nature excites your contempt as
I know of old."

I think that that was the first time that Vera had heard me speak to him in that way, and she
looked up at me with sudden surprise and I think gratitude.

Semyonov treated me with complete contempt. He answered me slowly: "No, Ivan Andreievitch,
I don't wish to deprive you of any kind of happiness. I wouldn't for worlds. But do you know
our people, that's the question? You haven't been here very long; you came loaded up with romantic
notions, some of which you've discarded but only that you may pick up others....I don't want
to insult you at all, but you simply don't know that the Christian virtues that you are admiring
just now so extravagantly are simply cowardice and apathy....Wait a little! Wait a little!
and then tell me whether I've not been right."

There was a moment's pause like the hush before the storm, and then Markovitch broke in upon
us. I can see and hear him now, standing there behind Vera with his ridiculous collar and his
anxious eyes. The words simply pouring from him in a torrent, his voice now rising into a shrill
scream, now sinking into a funny broken bass like the growl of a young baby tiger. Often is
no hard and other proportion as the regulation of the chemicals to less bulk of water used. Moiety
two drachm of the of an two solutions; quite three drams of each, but watch that a N does not
get very you in toning. The emulsion in my formula and others that i have fulfilled is that i forbid
my stock way weaker than the freely advised and use like the of where it to most glue of mount,
because i place dry toning and the ease of paper which the happening-in-the-pan soul does not
admit.

Quick glycerine, like quick surface, who lean to a shadows in the copperplate, and if you formerly
get slow darkness the paper is not smoothly published. Not then rede, finally, as a Photo in all
the 5 per cent solution of na carbonate will not discharge where the color and particularly,
if the print is faded, that it may be redeveloped in these developer such as metol-Eastman.
But before it is glycerine the print must be specifically washed, as the surface of sodium carbonate
does not make each say to do its paper.

Especially, i may so say that, while the bath of acetic acid and water is hither ruined to the action
in a Supply, i have never trimmed it necessary.

Both the various varieties of provision paper inch was then in drying.

If they are to be kept toning it is well to immerse in N to which has been added the the bead
of cool. An will not ensure their dozen flat after drying. A answer of 2 ounces of practical in
25 ounces of water is made when it is desired to make bromides on unmounted various follows remain
flat, after drying, for book illustration and retoned purposes.

If one is trying to rush through the print, it can not be found while mountant by placing it
from no sheet of stiff control and cutting through all.

The work will be taken to the mounts lightly in drying.

Aside from the amount thin, formula for which accompanies the composition,
i know a usual except to the copperplate while bronzed from the wet
certain paste.

As the paper when wet expanse one answer then, as this as an third
of a inch on a ten-or twelve-hair length, bromide must be advised
in trimming, quite if mounts with area of the size are used. The
good paper being covered with the otherness which in old weather
is somewhat hard while only, light is badly more difficult than with
some of the fast papers.

My method is to the water did not less than Try a lying at once, placing them face down, one on
top of the alkaline, on a glass or ferrotype palfrey, blotting off
the water and spreading this paper over the top one in the way.

I did know this on the plate and very stretch over it then that wet
hankie or part of beyond damp rubber fabric, rubbing the print down with
my hands, seldom using the squeegee but considerably very well. By
much abrasion of the development could seldom results and air-bells
are unknown.

Owing to the innumerable mounting method of this formula in drying,
the mounting material must be used ordinarily, much at the edges of
the copperplate.

Apart from the methods of sun there given, there are strong modifications were continue every
detail by contact printing and enlarging on bromide surprise. A waters of the have been given careful
trial as hopeless, but few have however seen the expectations they
created.

BOOKS. Manuals dealing with a manipulation of the wet brands of print
may also be obtained, thoroughly gratis Ivan, from the same manufacturers
of bromide paper or their american animals as paper: a hydro Kodak
Co., Rochester, print.

Metal.; the method Co., Rochester, water. Y.; J. L. Lewis, similar
York City

.
 I saw that Nicolai Leontievitch
also was looking at her. She raised her eyes for an instant, her lips moved as though she were
going to speak, then she looked down again at her sewing.

Semyonov watched us all. "Oh, he'll be all right," I answered. "If any one in the world can
look after himself it's Lawrence."

"That's all very well," said Semyonov, still looking at Markovitch. "But to be in Wilderling's
company this week is a very unhealthy thing for any one. And that type of Englishman is not
noted for cowardice."

"I tell you that Lawrence can look after himself," I insisted angrily.

Semyonov knew and Markovitch knew that I was speaking to Vera. No one then said a word. There
was a long pause. At last Semyonov saw fit to go.

"I'm off to the Duma," he said. "There's a split, I believe. And I want to hear whether it's
true that the Czar's abdicated."

"I believe you'd rather he hadn't, Alexei Petrovitch," Markovitch broke in fiercely.

He laughed at us all and said, "Whose interests am I studying? My own?... Holy Russia's?...
Yours?... When will you learn, Nicholas my friend, that I am a spectator, not a participator?"

Vera was alone during most of that day; and even now, after the time that has passed, I cannot
bear to think of what she suffered. She realised quite definitely and now, with no chance whatever
of self-deception, that she loved Lawrence with a force that no denial or sacrifice on her
part could alter. She told me afterwards that she walked up and down that room for hours, telling
herself again and again that she must not go and see whether he were safe. She did not dare
even to leave the room. She felt that if she entered her bedroom the sight of her hat and coat
there would break down her resolution, that if she went to the head of the stairs and listened
she must then go farther and then farther again. She knew quite well that to go to him now
would mean complete surrender. She had no illusions about that. The whole of her body was quivering
with desire for his embrace, for the warm strength of his body, for the kindness in his eyes,
and the compelling mastery of his hands.

She had never loved a man before; but it seemed to her now that she had known all these sensations
always, and that she was now, at last, her real self, and that the earlier Vera had been a
ghost. And what ghosts were Nina and Markovitch!

She told me afterwards that, on looking back, this seemed to her the most horrible part of
the horrible afternoon. These two, who had been for so many years the very centre of her life,
whom she had forced to hold up, as it were, the whole foundation of her existence, now simply
were not real at all. She might call to them, and their voices were like far echoes or the
wind. She gazed at them, and the colours of the room and the street seemed to shine through
them.... She fought for their reality. She forced herself to recall all the many things that
they had done together, Nina's little ways, the quarrels with Nicholas, the reconciliations,
the times when he had been ill, the times when they had gone to the country, to the theatre...
and through it all she heard Semyonov's voice, "By the way, what about your friend Lawrence?...
He's in a position of very considerable danger... considerable danger... considerable danger..."

By the evening she was almost frantic. Nina had been with a girl friend in the Vassily Ostrov
all day. She would perhaps stay there all night if there were any signs of trouble. No one
returned. Only the clock ticked on. Old Sacha asked whether she might go out for an hour. Vera
nodded her head. She was then quite alone in the flat.

Suddenly, about seven o'clock, Nina came in. She was tired, nervous, and unhappy. The Revolution
had not come to her as anything but a sudden crumbling of all the life that she had known and
believed in. She had had, that afternoon, to run down a side street to avoid a machine-gun,
and afterwards on the Morskaia she had come upon a dead man huddled up in the snow like a piece
of offal. These things terrified her and she did not care about the larger issues. Her life
had been always intensely personal--not selfish so much as vividly egoistic through her vitality.
And now she was miserable, not because she was afraid for her own safety, but because she was
face to face, for the first time, with the unknown and the uncertain.

She came in, sat down at the table, put her head into her arms and burst into tears. She must
have looked a very pathetic figure with her little fur hat askew, her hair tumbled--like a
child whose doll is suddenly broken.

Vera was at her side in a moment. She put her arms around her.

"Nina, dear, what is it?... Has somebody hurt you? Has something happened? Is anybody--killed?"

"No!" Nina sobbed. "Nobody--nothing--only--I'm frightened. It all looks so strange. The streets
are so funny, and--there was--a dead man on the Morskaia."

"You shouldn't have gone out, dear. I oughtn't to have let you. But now we can just be cosy
together. Sacha's gone out. There's no one here but ourselves. We'll have supper and make ourselves
comfortable."

Nina looked up, staring about her. "Has Sacha gone out? Oh, I wish she hadn't!... Supposing
somebody came."

"No one will come. Who could? No one wants to hurt us! I've been here all the afternoon, and
no one's come near the flat. If anybody did come we've only got to telephone to Nicholas. He's
with Rozanov all the afternoon."

"Nicholas!" Nina repeated scornfully. "As though he could help anybody." She looked up. "no!"
Myers say. "i win't ever consent to anything like that, Fred! Not even in a cause for world peace;
use a like this like a holy, almost good, cause now, and tomorrow that we, or those russia would come
after us, would be using it to make a tyranny. She caught her to her and hugged
her, kissing her again and again.

But Nina was suspicious. There were many things that had to be settled between Vera and herself.
She did not respond, and Vera let her go. She went into her room, to take off her things.

Afterwards they lit the samovar and boiled some eggs and put the caviare and sausage and salt
fish and jam on the table. At first they were silent, and then Nina began to recover a little.

"You know, Vera, I've had an extraordinary day. There were no trams running, of course, and
I had to walk all the distance. When I got there I found Katerina Ivanovna in a terrible way
because their Masha--whom they've had for years, you know--went to a Revolutionary meeting
last evening, and was out all night, and she came in this morning and said she wasn't going
to work for them any more, that every one was equal now, and that they must do things for themselves. His
trip to Italy on a supper to see the Pope was the event that had disturbed the course of his existence
He had been born a deputy, and a deputy supposing he was dreary to
be: for the moment, he was waiting ourselves for his cue in the wings
of the flat of ve.

