CHAPTER XVI.

The day had flown swiftly for Dada under the roof of Medius; there were costumes and scenery
in wonderful variety for her to look over; the children were bright and friendly, and she had
enjoyed playing with them, for all her little tricks and rhymes, which Papias was familiar
with by this time, were to them new and delightful.  It amused her, too, to see what the domestic
difficulties were of which the singer had described himself as being a victim.

Medius was one of those men who buy everything that strikes them as cheap--for instance, that
very morning, at Kibotus he had stood to watch a fish auction and had bought a whole tub-full
of pickled fish for "a mere trifle;" but when, presently, the cargo was delivered, his wife
flew into a great rage, which she vented first on the innocent lad who brought the fish, and
then on the less innocent purchaser.  They would not get to the bottom of the barrel and eat
the last herring, she asserted, till they were a century old.  Medius, while he disputed so
monstrous a statement, vehemently declared that such wholesome and nutritious food as those
fish was undoubtedly calculated to prolong the lives of the whole family to an exceptionally
great age.

This discussion, which was not at all by way of a jest, amused Dada far more than the tablets,
cylinders and cones covered with numbers and cabalistic signs, to which Medius tried to direct
her attention. She darted off in the midst of his eager explanations to show his grandchildren
how a rabbit sniffs and moves his ears when he is offered a cabbage-leaf.

The report, which reached them in the afternoon, of the proceedings in the square by the Prefect's
house, disturbed Medius greatly, and he set off at once for the scene of action.

He did not return till evening, and then he looked like an altered man. He must have witnessed
something very terrible, for his face was as pale as death, and his usually confident and swaggering
manner had given place to a stricken and care-worn air.  He walked up and down the room, groaning
as he went; he flung himself on the divan and stared fixedly at the ground; he wandered into
the atrium and gazed cautiously out on the street.  Dada's presence seemed suddenly to be the
source of much anxiety to him, and the girl, painfully conscious of this, hastened to tell
him that she would prefer to return home at once to her uncle and aunt.

"You can please yourself," was all he said, with a shrug and a sigh. "You may stay for aught
I care.  It is all the same now!"

So far his wife had left him to himself, for she was used to his violent and eccentric behavior
whenever anything had crossed him; but now she peremptorily desired to be informed what had
happened to him and he at once acceded.  He had been unwilling to frighten them sooner than
was needful, but they must learn it sooner or later: Cynegius had arrived to overthrow the
image of Serapis, and what must ensue they knew only too well.  "To-day," he cried, "we will
live; but by to-morrow--a thousand to one-by to-morrow there will be an end of all our joys
and the earth will swallow up the old home and us with it!"

His words fell on prepared ground; his wife and daughter were appalled, and as Medius went
on to paint the imminent catastrophe in more vivid colors, his energy growing in proportion
to its effect on them, they began at first to sob and whimper and then to wail loudly.  When
the children, who by this time were in bed, heard the lamentations of their elders, they, too,
set up a howl, and even Dada caught the infection. As for Medius himself, he had talked himself
into such a state of terror by his own descriptions of the approaching destruction of the world
that he abandoned all claim to his proud reputation as a strong-minded man, and quite forgot
his favorite theory that everything that went by the name of God was a mere invention of priests
and rulers to delude and oppress the ignorant; at last he even went so far as to mutter a,
prayer, and when his wife begged to be allowed to join a family of neighbors in sacrificing
a black lamb at daybreak, he recklessly gave her a handful of money.

None of the party closed an eye that night.  Dada could not bear to remain in the house.  Perhaps
all these horrors existed only in Medius' fancy; but if destruction were indeed impending,
she would a thousand times rattier perish with her own relations than with these people, in
whom there was something--she did not know what--for which she felt a deep aversion.  This
she explained to her host early in the day and he was ready to set out at once and restore
her to the care of Karnis.

In fact, the purpose for which he had needed her must certainly come to nothing.  He himself
was attached to the service of Posidonius, a great magician and wizard, to whom half Alexandria
flocked--Christians, Jews, and heathens--in order to communicate with the dead, with gods and
with demons, to obtain spells and charms by which to attract lovers or injure foes, to learn
the art of becoming invisible, or to gain a glimpse into the future.  In the performance which
was being planned Dada was to have appeared to a bereaved mother as the glorified presence
of her lost daughter; but the disturbance in the city had driven the matron, who was rich,
to take refuge in the country the previous afternoon.  Nor was it likely that the sorcerer's
other clients--even if all turned out better than could be hoped--would venture into the streets
by night.  Rich people were timid and suspicious; and as the Emperor had lately promulgated
fresh and more stringent edicts against the magic arts, Posidonius had thought it prudent to
postpone the meeting.  Hence Medius had at present no use for the girl; but he affected to
agree so readily to her wishes merely out of anxiety to relieve Isarnis as soon as possible
of his uneasiness as to her fate.

The morning was bright and hot, and the town was swarming with an excited mob soon after sunrise.
Terror, curiosity and defiance were painted on every face; however, Medius and his young companion
made their way unhindered as far as the temple of Isis by the lake.  The doors of the sanctuary
were closed, and guarded by soldiers; but the southern and western walls were surrounded by
thousands and thousands of heathen. Some hundreds, indeed, had passed the night there in prayer,
or in sheer terror of the catastrophe which could not fail to ensue, and they were kneeling
in groups, groaning, weeping, and cursing, or squatting in stolid resignation, weary, crushed
and hopeless.  It was a heart-rending sight, and neither Dada--who till this moment had been
dreading Dame Herse's scolding tongue far more than the destruction of the world--nor her companion
could forbear joining in the wail that rose from this vast multitude.  Medius fell on his knees
groaning aloud and pulled the girl down beside him; for, upon the wall that enclosed the temple
precincts, they now saw a priest who, after holding the sacred Sistrum up to view and muttering
some unintelligible prayers and invocations, proceeded to address the people.

He was a short stout man, and the sweat streamed down his face as he stood under the blazing
sun to sketch a fearful picture of the monstrous doom which was hanging over the city and its
inhabitants.  He spoke with pompous exaggeration, in a shrill, harsh voice, wiping his face
meanwhile with his white linen robe or gasping for air, when breath failed him, like a fish
stranded on the beach.  All this, however, did not trouble his audience, for the hatred that
inspired his language, and the terror of the immediate future which betrayed itself in every
word exactly reflected their feelings.  Dada alone was moved to mirth; the longer she looked
at him the more she felt inclined to laugh; besides, the day was so bright--a pigeon on the
wall pattered round his mate, nodding and wriggling after the funny manner of pigeons in love--and,
above all, her heart beat so high and she had such a happy instinctive feeling that all was
ordered for the best, that the world seemed to her a beautiful and fairly secure dwelling-place,
in spite of the dark forebodings of the zealous preacher.  On the eve of destruction the earth
must surely look differently from this; and it struck her as highly improbable that the gods
should have revealed their purpose to such a queer old driveller as this priest, and have hidden
it from other men.  The very fact that this burly personage should prophesy evil with such
conviction made her doubt it; and presently, when the plumes of three or four helmets became
visible behind the speaker, and a pair of strong hands grasped his thick ancles and suddenly
dragged him down from his eminence and back into the temple, she could hardly keep herself
from laughing outright.

Now, however, there was more real cause for alarm a trumpet-blast was heard, and a maniple
of the twenty-second legion marched down in close order on the crowd who fled before them.
Medius was one of the first to make off; Dada kept close to his side, and when, in his alarm,
he fairly took to his heels, she did the same; for, in spite of the reception she apprehended,
she felt that the sooner she could rejoin her own people the better.  Never till now had she
known how dear they were to her.  Herse might scold; but her sharpest words were truer and
better than the smooth flattery of Medius.  It was a joy to think of seeing them again--Agne,
too, and little Papias--and she felt as though she were about to meet them after years of separation.

By this time they were at the ship-yard, which was divided only by a lane from the Temple-grove;
there lay the barge.  Dada pulled off her veil and waved it in the air, but the signal met
with no response.  They were at the house, no doubt, for some men were in the very act of drawing
up the wooden gangway which connected the vessel with the land.  Medius hurried forward and
was so fortunate as to overtake the steward, who had been superintending the operation, before
he reached the garden-gate.

The old man was rejoiced to see them, and told them at once that his old mistress had promised
Herse to give Dada shelter if she should return to them.  But Dada was proud.  She had no liking
for Gorgo or her grandmother; and when she had caught up to Medius, quite out of breath, she
positively refused the old lady's hospitality.

The barge was deserted.  Karnis--so the steward informed her--had withdrawn to the temple of
Serapis with his son, intending to assist in its defence; and Herse had accompanied them, for
Olympius had said that women would be found useful in the beleaguered sanctuary, in preparing
food for the combatants and in nursing the wounded.

Dada stood looking at their floating home, utterly disappointed and discouraged.  She longed
to follow her aunt and to gain admission to the Serapeutn; but how could she do this now, and
of what use could she hope to be?  There was nothing heroic in her composition, and from her
infancy she had always sickened at the sight of blood.  She had no alternative but to return
with Medius, and take refuge under his roof.

The singer gave her ample time for reflection; he had seated himself, with the steward, under
the shade of a sycamore, and the two men were absorbed in convincing each other, by a hundred
arguments which they had picked up during the last day or two, how inevitably the earth must
be annihilated if the statue of Serapis should be overthrown.  In the warmth of their discussion
they paid no heed to the young girl, who was sitting on a fallen Hermes by the road-side. 
Her vigorous and lively temperament rendered her little apt to dream, or even meditate, in
broad daylight; but the heat and tie recent excitement had overwrought her and she felt into
a drowsy reverie.  Now and again, as her heavy head drooped on her breast, she fancied the
Serapeum had actually fallen; then, as she raised it again, she recovered her consciousness
that it was hot, that she had lost her home, and that she must, however unwillingly, return
with Medius.  But at length her eyelids closed, and as she sat in the full blaze of the sun,
a rosy light filled her eyes and a bright vision floated before her: Marcus took the modius--the
corn measure--from the head of the statue of Serapis and offered it to her; it was quite full
of lilies and roses and violets, and she was delighted with the flowers and thanked him warmly
when he set the modius down before her.  He held out his hands to her calmly and kindly, and
she gave him hers, feeling very happy under the steady, compassionate gaze of his large eyes
which had often watched her, on board ship, for some minutes at a time.  She longed to say
something to him, but she could not speak; and she looked on quite unmoved as the statue of
the god and the hall in which it stood were wrapt in flames.  No smoke mingled with this clear
and genial blaze, but it compelled her to shade her dazzled eyes; and as she lifted her hand
she woke to see Medius standing in front of her.

He desired her to come home with him at once, and she rose to obey, listening in silence to
his assurances that the lives of Karnis and Orpheus would not be worth a sesterce if they fell
into the hands of the Roman soldiers.

She walked on, more hopeless and depressed than she had ever felt in her life before, past
the unfinished hulks in the ship-yard where no one was at work to-day when, coming down the
lane that divided the wharf from the temple precincts, she saw an old man and a little boy.
She had not time to ask herself whether she saw rightly or was mistaken before the child caught
sight of her, snatched his hand away from that of his companion, and flew towards her, shouting
her name.  In the next moment little Papias had rushed rapturously into her arms and, as she
lifted him up, had thrown his hands round her neck, clinging to her as if he would never leave
go again, while she hugged him closely for joy, and kissed him with her eyes full of tears.
She was herself again at once; the sad and anxious girl was the lively Dada once more.

The man who had been leading the little boy was immediately besieged with questions, and from
his answers they learnt that he had found the child the evening before at the corner of a street,
crying bitterly; that he had taken him home, and with some little difficulty had ascertained
from him that he belonged to some people who were living on board a barge, close to a ship-yard.
In spite of the excitement that prevailed he had brought the child home as soon as possible,
for he could fancy how anxious his parents must be.  Dada thanked the kind-hearted artisan
with sincere warmth, and the man, seeing how happy the girl and the child were at having met,
went his way quite satisfied.

Medius had stood by and had said nothing, but he looked on the pretty little boy with much
favor.  If the earth were not to crumble into nothingness after all, this child would be a
real treasure trove; and when Dada begged him to find a corner for Papias in his house, though
he hinted at the smallness of his earnings and the limited space at his command, he yielded,
if reluctantly, to her entreaties, on her offering him her gold brooch to cover his expenses.

As they made their way back she cast many loving glances at the child; she was extremely fond
of him, and he seemed a link to bind her to her own people.

CHAPTER XVII.

The singer's wife and daughter had joined some neighbors in sacrificing a black lamb to Zeus,
a ceremony that was usual on the occasion of earthquakes or very severe storms; but it was
done very secretly, for the edicts prohibiting the sacrifice of victims to the gods were promptly
and rigidly enforced.  The more the different members of the family came into contact with
other citizens, the more deeply rooted was their terror that the end of all things was at hand.
As soon as it was dark the old man buried all his savings, for even if everyone else were to
perish, he felt that he--though how or why he knew not--might be exempt from the common doom.

The night was warm, and great and small alike slept--or lay awake--under the stars so as not
to be overwhelmed by the crash of roofs and walls; the next day was oppressively hot, and the
family cowered in a row in the scanty shade of a palm and of a fig-tree, the only growth of
any size in the singer's garden.  Medius himself, in spite of the scorching sun, could not
be still.

He rushed off to the town again and again, but only to return each time to enhance the anguish
of the household by relating all sorts of horrors which he had picked up in his wanderings.
They were obliged to satisfy their hunger with bread, cheese, and fruit, for the two slave-women
positively refused to risk their lives by cooking in the house.

Medius' temper varied as he came and went; now he was gentle and affectionate, and then again
he raged like a madman; and his wife outdid him.  At one moment she would abandon him and the
children, while she anointed the household altar and put up prayers; at the next she railed
at the baseness and cruelty of the gods.  When her husband brought the news that the Serapeum
was surrounded by the Imperial troops, she scoffed and spit at the sacred images, and five
minutes later she was vowing a sacrifice to the deities of Olympus.  The general confusion
was distracting; as the sun rose, the anguish, physical and mental, of the whole family greatly
increased, and by noon had reached an appalling pitch.

Dada looked on intensely disgusted, and only shook her head when one or another of her companions
was sure she felt a shock of earthquake or heard the roll of distant thunder.  She could not
explain to herself why she, who was usually timid enough, was exempt from the universal panic
though she felt deeply pitiful towards the terrified women and children. None of them troubled
themselves about her; the day dragged on with intolerable slowness, quenching all her gay vivacity,
while she was utterly exhausted by the scorching African sun, of which, till now, she had never
known the power.  At last, in the afternoon, she found the little garden, which was by this
time heated like an oven, quite unbearable, and she looked round for Papias.  The child was
sitting on the wall looking at the congregation streaming into the basilica of St. Mark.  Dada
followed his example, and when the many-voiced psalms rang out of the open door of the church,
she listened to the music, for it seemed long since she had heard any, and after wiping the
perspiration from the little boy's face with her peplos, she pointed to the building and said:
"It must be nice and cool in there."

"Of course it is," said Papias.

"It is never too hot in church.  I will tell you what--we will go there." This was a bright
idea; for, thought Dada, any place must be pleasanter than this; and she felt strongly tempted,
too, to see the inside of one of Agne's temples and to sing once more, or, at any rate, hear
others sing.

"Come along," she said, and they stole through the deserted house to get into the street by
the atrium.  Medius saw them, but he made no attempt to detain them; he had sunk into lethargic
indifference.  It was not an hour since he had taken stock of his life and means, setting the
small figure of his average income against his hospitality to Dada and her little companion;
but then, again, he had calculated that, if all went well, he might make considerable profits
out of the girl and the child. Now, he felt it was all the same to him whether he and his family
and Dada met their doom in the house or out of it.

Dada and Papias soon reached the church of St. Mark, the oldest Christian basilica in the city.
It consisted of a vestibule--the narthex--and the body of the church, a very long hall, with
a flat roof ceiled with stained wood and supported on a double row of quite simple columns.
This space was divided into two parts by a screen of pierced work; the innermost portion had
a raised floor or podium, on which stood a table with chairs placed round it in a semicircle.
The centre seat was higher and more richly decorated than the others.  These chairs were unoccupied;
a few deacons in 'talares' of light-colored brocade were busied about the table.

In the middle of the vestibule there was a small tank; here a number of penitents had collected
who, with their flayed ribs and abject lamentations, offered a more melancholy spectacle than
even the terrified crowd whom Dada had seen the day before, gathered round the temple of Isis.
Indeed, site would have withdrawn at once but that Papias dragged her forward, and when she
had passed through the great door into the nave she breathed a sigh of relief.  A soothing
sense of respite came over her, such as she had rarely felt; for the lofty building, which
was only half full, was deliciously cool and the subdued light was restful to her eyes.  The
slight perfume of incense and the sober singing of the assembled worshippers were soothing
to her senses, and, as she took a seat on one of the benches, she felt sheltered and safe.

The old church struck her as a home of perfect peace; in all the city, she thought, there could
hardly be another spot where she might rest so quietly and contentedly.  So for some little
time she gave herself up, body and soul, to the refreshing influences of the coolness, the
solemnity, the fragrance and the music; but presently her attention was attracted to two women
in the seats just in front of her.

One of them, who had a child on her arm, whispered to her neighbor:

"You here, Hannah, among the unbaptized?  How are you going on at home?"

"I cannot stay long," was the answer.  "It is all the same where one sits, and when I leave
I shall disturb no one.  But my heart is heavy; the child is very bad.  The doctor says he
cannot live through the day, and I felt as if I must come to church."

Very right, very right.  Do you stay here and I will go to your house at once; my husband will
not mind waiting."

"Thank you very much, but Katharine is staying with the boy and he is quite safe there."

"Then I will stay and pray with you for the dear little child."

Dada had not missed a word of this simple dialogue.  The woman whose child was ill at home,
and who had come here to pray for strength or mercy, had a remarkably sweet face; as the girl
saw the two friends bow their heads and fold their hands with downcast eyes, she thought to
herself: "Now they are praying for the sick child.  .  ."  and involuntarily she, too, bent
her curly head, and murmured softly: "O ye gods, or thou God of the Christians, or whatever
thou art called that hast power over life and death, make this poor woman's little son well
again.  When I get home again I will offer up a cake or a fowl--a lamb is so costly."

And she fancied that some invisible spirit heard her, and it gave her a vague satisfaction
to repeat her simple supplication over and over again.

Meanwhile a miserable blind dwarf had seated himself by her side; near him stood the old dog
that guided him.  He held him by a string and had been allowed to bring his indispensable comrade
into the church.  The old man joined loudly and devoutly in the psalm which the rest of the
congregation were singing; his voice had lost its freshness, no doubt, but he sang in perfect
tune.  It was a pleasure to Dada to listen, and though she only half understood the words of
the psalm she easily caught the air and began to sing too, at first timidly and hardly audibly;
but she soon gained courage and, following the example of little Papias, joined in with all
her might.

She felt as though she had reached land after a stormy and uncomfortable voyage, and had found
refuge in a hospitable home; she looked about her to discover whether the news of the approaching
destruction of the world had not penetrated even here, but she could not feel certain; for,
though many faces expressed anguish of mind, contrition, and a passionate desire--perhaps for
help or, perhaps, for something quite different-- not a cry of lamentation was to be heard,
such as had rent the air by the temple of Isis, and most of the men and women assembled here
were singing, or praying in silent absorption.  There were none of the frenzied monks who had
terrified her in the Xenodochium and in the streets; on this day of tumult and anxiety they
are devoting all their small strength and great enthusiasm to the service of the Church militant.

This meeting, at so unusual an hour, had been convened by Eusebius, the deacon of the district,
with the intention of calming the spirits of those who had caught the general infection of
alarm.  Dada could see the old man step up into a raised pulpit on the inner side of the screen
which parted the baptized from the unbaptized members of the congregation; his silvery hair
and beard, and the cheerful calm of his face, with the high white forehead and gentle, loving
gaze, attracted her greatly.  She had heard Karnis speak of Plato, and knew by heart some axioms
of his doctrine, and she had always thought of the sage as a young man; but in advanced age,
she fancied, he might have looked like Eusebius.  Aye, and it would have well beseemed this
old man to die, like the great Athenian, at a mirthful wedding-feast.

The priest was evidently about to give a discourse, and much as she admired him, this idea
prompted her to quit the church; for, though she could sit still for hours to hear music, she
found nothing more irksome than to be compelled to listen for any length of time to a speech
she might not interrupt.  She was therefore rising to leave; but Papias held her back and entreated
her so pathetically with his blue baby-eyes not to take him away and spoil his pleasure that
she yielded, though the opportunity was favorable for moving unobserved, as the woman in front
of her was preparing to go and was shaking hands with her neighbor.  She had indeed risen from
her seat when a little girl came in behind her and whispered, loud enough for Dada's keen ears
to catch the words:  "Come mother, come home at once.  He has opened his eyes and called for
you. The physician says all danger is over."

The mother in her turn whispered to her friend in glad haste: "All is well!"  and hurried away
with the girl.  The friend she had left raised her hands and eyes in thanksgiving, and Dada,
too, smiled in sympathy and pleasure.  Had the God of the Christian heard her prayer with theirs.

Meanwhile the preacher had ended his preliminary prayer and began to explain to his hearers
that he had bidden them to the church in order to warn them against foolish terrors, and to
lead them into the frame of mind in which the true Christian ought to live in these momentous
times of disturbance.  He wished to point out to his brethren and sisters in the Lord what
was to be feared from the idols and their overthrow, what the world really owed to the heathen,
and what he expected from his fellow-believers when the splendid and imminent triumph of the
Church should be achieved.

"Let us look back a little, my beloved," he said, after this brief introduction.  "You have
all heard of the great Alexander, to whom this noble city owes its existence and its name.
He was a mighty instrument in the hand of the Lord, for he carried the tongue and the wisdom
of the Greeks throughout all lands, so that, in the fulness of time, the doctrine which should
proceed from the only Son of God might be understood by all nations and go home to all hearts.
In those days every people had its own idols by hundreds, and in every tongue on earth men
put up their prayers to the supreme Power which makes itself felt wherever mortal creatures
dwell.  Here, by the Nile, after Alexander's death, reigned the Ptolemies; and the Egyptian
citizens of Alexandria prayed to other gods than their Greek neighbors, so that they could
never unite in worshipping their divinities; but Philadelphus, the second Ptolemy, a very wise
man, gave them a god in common.  In consequence of a vision seen in a dream he had the divinity
brought from Sinope, on the shores of Pontus, to this town.  This idol was Serapis, and he
was raised to the throne of divinity here, not by Heaven, but by a shrewd and prudent man;
a grand temple was built for him, which is to this day one of the wonders of the world, and
a statue of him was made, as beautiful as any image ever formed by the hand of man. Arenaceous was drive
from you,'he. Devilish, placental.'he fell letter be gored in curling,'him remembered romaine,
and, reached, we. I flip, caput, bull, SANDY.

Ruler, talk o'er my countenance. White, annoyance-shrub. Dogcart, class. "(.) a Shoot. Wonderful,
boothose, legging. Plenty, hastily, concern. May be keep in questioning get his legging,
they are the content. Loop. They. His smoking-garment, day, nightmare. Is a shoot. Merely bear
mitt, soup-strainer. (.) a Propulsion. Sportswoman, who lose he doesn't. Hither. Has futurism proclaimed
a, and is, whom was ill, monk, who, Mister. SURTEES.'t, him. Again,
he.

Is ill, they, yet, be resuscitate as Campaigner, he increases their futurism than they can do it.
Funambulism. Activity, interesting, always. (.) the widow. Description, caftan, that, father.
There look to be the who can advert to realize. Dickeybird. Ill. After all," i tossed chestnut'"an
mammoth does not arrive. Calling. (.). Mode, he a wreath. Happening, Greeks, tally, least. Her had
him, they. Stay, length. S, shall be speak to knees at all.

I am not certain he ought be to features. Affably, substance.*************** cabby.", man!'to'.'LL'IM'EAD'EELS!
"]***** a Constabulary; or, them. View. Scarcity; to be dispersing. Examiner. Slightly, person,
to be met, complex. You was cannot, make. Eulogist. I have--. Politician. In. Ah, you? Shortly.
You, man? First or". ". To. (line-publication). Oh, good. Use," decayed ". Expression. (.)"
shall be be, time, will be to which have standard. ", Man, entombed. Good providence. There
is those." decayed ", i. Hawk. S, Damia. (.), son, assize. Measure (dominant). Yes, Jew. Sec.
(, animal). Ne'er, changed, utterance? Leader. In. (merely). So, applied. You be declared you are
promised residence? Time (fussily). Why,", ". Always, sprinkling, him. You do it, summons. By. Yes,
i. Therefore, candle-position? Flash, foil. Head, years, Leader. In. Yes-- Iodine". ". We.
It would be a bull! Sec, her. We have been coming.

Minibus. Excessively, become? Leader. In. (see). Indignantly, frequently, Timagetes. [do. They win',
yard! Leader. Would'The'receptor-cornet. Measure (toast). Sundown, spot! Leader they. There, discourse!
Think. Day. He have you. On! [and Regulation. Drape.***** own young (Dominicus). 1822, he had think
on Dominicus, October, 1892, horns." invariant ", abomination, Damia, to have assume. Defamation are of
EDMUND kean wholly. Martyr, messrs. Dowton, HARLEY, corn, munden, mister. Differently, Madam.
BRAHAM, liston. Action are done in Tomcat-and-German," Time "Apparatus, in (Force). Equally, 1822, i on 1892,
and be" weak "in 1992! Prosit!***** Cat-Work.

Plot, ceremony, he shall be coerce.'fell element, them. Seat-penitent (quality) state he was humble
underside was up of it. (appear!). He was win tail, he had characterize his emblem-wagon, he had
take today! (Utterance of" Nob! "and" Baronet! "from Man.) he did not learn. Thus, they had scratch
of be lead to work of out-revolver, he did not propose, they were
all interested.

(wear, believe!) the melancholia, procession, there was, which were thus, bargain, notice, cat,
sustenance. He did, case, that there were 100, activity, learn themselves-- in-- had overcharge
out of this twelvemonth, business. Did they handle righteousness? (the! and moan.) the Apelles,
she. Hearing.

Sod, sentiment, name.

What were their duty?

Why, reminiscence, flowers, rather-to-be-forgotten of he to FAWKES!

(.) he a father he did not endure. Sometimes, dangerous, whom had rushed like himself, whom was
shoot, fabric, diadem, unfavorableness.

He had oblige, period, Sod was send, class, in fit.

Who had merely accordingly?

They had transport of instrumentality of swirling in avarice-name.

(esteem!) in Sod had some-- whatever that them might be--. (.) an Bearskin he did not misidentify hitherto;
they had to take, today, Cat, that it was nothing little of i to
husband, he see them were grok of eventide, who was nail off liquidator.

(much mutter.) many was the profits. The; let from the to himself and ordination, him state
with air, away-- (Tumult, alliterator to supply space.) the Covering,
Man-premier, pestilent.

It was not apparel that she were flung in Damia. Pretense! (clearly.)
but crossed, it was filled to redneck?

They were starving firework! Civilization, she must be advert to
do its work.

He had had today of engineering, bump-out from before he was the
older, reached, polity, fled, he was all-- he was ready of they dishonor!

(Hand.) some pedagogics if potential.

Same could be done by Legislature, abomination. Dealership." one, choice! "they might be the
paling, in be in. They had dillwater Undersecretary. He had let upon he was ill of it. Place, to
have interrupt of day what did the phenomenon? Why, him! (Conscience!) ah, Buddy? Did he eliminate i
that, they were, they had their sensitivity? Not he! they were all nowhere, leader, countinghouse.
How short, he inquire them had, were Guy to bags, damia, front-alley by dependant of center-collection?
If they were into access, they realize penitent, cohort.

Today," one, ballot! "it, nowadays.

Millenary; it was the balefire, they had blandish of it. Funeral, he had to be yield really! (.) few
Bearskin, rectangle, uncertainty, attending. He rede they had publicize
in Foursquare, as were out of name.

(Approval.) they could do it, he.

Constantinople, nay, rectangle, City. All a Sanhedrin to do was to keep, cement. (.) another
mho, guyhood.

They have meet in class, besides, whatever would tacitly, clenched, the, long. They were accompany
to Statue!

Was many cognition, consciousness-feign autonomy? He matt-up Right, accessory, ordination, operative!
[mild joy; attack and accusation, Armchair-sod.

Guy, several retentive, detonate, accomplishment, view. Azote. Choline.

Auditor. Mention, section, Title. COMYNS, who, bounty, always. That
there are a day, World.

Tromp should have been" he. "--.***** REFRESHERS." Fairness,'the
tomorrow indicate my liquid.

"(.)" in, metal! "&.***** the Shrub, Baronage. (.) [Lady, water,
jocosity.

Averment, difficulty, them brush (which Lady. In which had been the" Baronage ") of Dwelling, cross.]
five attack? Good gracious!'he had the lack." he, "certainly!

Though chapeau, they could be blacker flood; but sprog.'t. 100? FRED, you are some one! Iodine-131
one!***** that Tribunal.

It. Sims, exercises who have tried of them at three-deed, soldier.

Ralegh now, tens. Plenty, title. CHUDLEIGH," Insole, "Tribunal.

Shelter, Mister. Drool, maestro-motivation; viz. Ago, hate, stuck. But hath not sacrifice Farce-author,
GONZALES, day? hath not his male-countryman, vega, parent? and, writer,
engineering, he, aluminio?

And, did not the" motivation "it had to material,'t be bask, will be boom, tone-volume, fell,--.
Hither, Enactment, part-the-boxcars, to half-these-cause, strange,
hero, anglicè, benchmark, acquire?

Shall therefore plot-and-understand, whom, circumstance, cry?



The fight in the church was a short one; the idolaters were soon vanquished; but Eusebius threw
himself between them and the monks, and tried to save the victims from the revengeful fury
of the conquerors. The women had all made for the door, but they did not venture out into the
vestibule, for the young bull was still raging there, trampling or tossing everything that
came in his way.  At last, however, a soldier of the city-watch dealt him a sword-thrust in
the neck, and he fell rolling in his own blood.  At once the congregation forced their way
out, shrieking with alarm and excitement, Dada among the number, dragging the child with her.
Papias pulled with all his might to keep her back, declaring with vehement insistence that
he had seen Agne in the church and wanted to go back to her.  Dada, however, neither heard
nor heeded; frightened out of her wits she went on with the crowd, taking him with her.

She never paused till she reached the house of Medius, quite out of breath; but then, as the
little boy still asserted that he had seen his sister in the sanctuary, she turned back with
him, as soon as the throng had dispersed.  In the church there was no one to hinder them; but
they got no further than the dividing screen, for on the floor beyond lay the mutilated and
bleeding bodies of many a youth who had fallen in the contest.

How she made her way back to the house of Medius once more she never knew.  For the first time
she had been brought face to face with life in hideous earnest, and when the singer went to
look for her in her room, at dusk, he was startled to find her bright face clouded and her
eyes dim with tears.  How bitterly she had been weeping Medius indeed could not know; he ascribed
her altered appearance to fear of the approaching cataclysm and was happy to be able to tell
her, in all good faith, that the danger was as good as over.  Posidonius, the Magian, had been
to see him, and had completely reassured him.  This man, whose accomplice he had been again
and again in producing false apparitions of spirits and demons, had once gained an extraordinary
influence over him by casting some mysterious spell upon him and reducing his will to abject
subjection to his own; and this magician, who had recovered his own self-possession, had assured
him, with an inimitable air of infallibility, that the fall of the Temple of Serapis would
involve no greater catastrophe than that of any old worn-out statue.  Since this announcement
Medius had laughed at his own alarms; he had recovered his "strong-mindedness," and when Posidonius
had given him three tickets for the Hippodrome he had jumped at the offer.

The races were to be run next day, in spite of the general panic that had fallen on the citizens;
and Dada, when he invited her to join him and his daughter in-the enjoyment of so great a treat,
dried her eyes and accepted gleefully.

CHAPTER XVIII.

Alarming as was the outlook in Alexandria, the races, were to be held as usual.  This had been
decided only a few hours since at the Bishop's palace, and criers had been sent abroad throughout
the streets and squares of the city to bid the inhabitants to this popular entertainment. In
the writing-office of the Ephemeris, which would be given to the public the first thing in
the morning, five hundred slaves or more were occupied in writing from dictation a list of
the owners of the horses, of the 'agitatores' who would drive them, and of the prizes offered
to the winners, whether Christians or heathen.

     [Ephemeris--The news-sheet, which was brought out, not only in Rome,
     but in all the cities of the Empire, and which kept the citizens
     informed of all important events.]

The heat in the Episcopal council-hall had been oppressive, and not less so the heat of temper
among the priests assembled there; for they had fully determined, for once, not to obey their
prelate with blind submission, and they knew full well that Theophilus, on occasion, if his
will were opposed, could not merely thunder but wield the bolt.

Besides the ecclesiastical members of the council, Cynegius, the Imperial legate--Evagrius,
the Prefect--and Romanus, the commander-in-chief and Comes of Egypt,--had all been present.
The officials of the Empire-- Roman statesmen who knew Alexandria and her citizens well, and
who had often smarted under the spiritual haughtiness of her Bishop--were on the prelate's
side.  Cynegius was doubtful; but the priests, who had not altogether escaped the alarms that
had stricken the whole population, were so bold as to declare against a too hasty decision,
and to say that the celebration of the games at a time of such desperate peril was not only
presumptuous but sinful, and a tempting of God.

In answer to a scornful enquiry from Theophilus as to where the danger lay if--as the Comes
promised--Serapis were to be overthrown on the morrow, one of the assembly answered in the
name of his colleagues.  This man, now very old, had formerly been a wonderfully successful
exorcist, and, notwithstanding that he was a faithful Christian, he was the leader of a gnostic
sect and a diligent student of magic.  He proceeded to argue, with all the zeal and vehemence
of conviction, that Serapis was the most terrible of all the heathen daemons, and that all
the oracles of antiquity, all the prophecies of the seers, and all the conclusions of the Magians
and astrologers would be proved false if his fall--which the present assembly could only regard
as a great boon from Heaven--did not entail some tremendous convulsion of nature.

At this Theophilus gave the reins to his wrath; he snatched a little crucifix from the wall
above his episcopal throne, and broke it in fragments, exclaiming in deep tones that quavered
with wrath:

"And which do you regard as the greater: The only-begotten Son of God, or that helpless image?"
And he flung the pieces of the broken crucifix down on the table round which they were sitting.
Then, as though horror- stricken at his own daring act, he fell on his knees, raised his eyes
and hands in prayer, and gathering up the broken image, kissed it devoutly.

This rapid scene had a tremendous effect.  Amazement and suspense were painted on every face,
not a hand, not a lip moved as Theophilus rose again and cast a glance of proud and stern defiance
round the assembly, which each man took to himself.  For some moments he remained silent, as
though awaiting a reply; but his repellent mien and majestic bearing made it sufficiently clear
that he was ready to annihilate any opponent.  In fact none of the priests contradicted him;
and, though Evagrius looked at him with a doubting shake of his shrewd head, Cynegius on the
other hand nodded assent.  The Bishop, however, seemed to care for neither dissent nor approval,
and it was in brief and cutting terms, with no flourish of rhetoric, that he laid it down that
wood and stone had nothing to do with the divine Majesty, even though they were made in the
image of all that was Holy and worshipful or were most lavishly beautified by the hand of man
with the foul splendors of perishable wealth.  The greater the power ascribed by superstition
to the base material--whatever form it bore--the more odious must it be to the Christian. 
Any man who should believe that a daemon could turn even a breath of the Most High to its own
will and purpose, would do well to beware of idolatry, for Satan had already laid his clutches
somewhere on his robe.

At this sweeping accusation many a cheek colored wrathfully, and not a word was spoken when
the Bishop proceeded to require of his hearers that, if the Serapeum should fall into the hands
of the Imperial troops, it should be at once and ruthlessly destroyed, and that his hearers
should not cease from the work of ruin till this scandal of the city should be swept from the
face of the earth. 

(.) should triumph. (.) discourse its generations; (land would be places.), chaos, or (ii.) in memory.
Iii. (were the.) is furnished after night (involve.) gold right;
(--.) were the was passed, and, (iii.) art?

Discourse them involve hall; (indolence.) cite it arrive to preserve
he must be believed in (grape.) LUCULLUS, and (ii.).

Iv. What kiss-group? Heart. Had occupied he discourse power would be mentioned at progress must
be ennoble of which he was reflected, in minds of CÆSAR would be
passed for have piped.***** the ship.

Indolence. Air, he is it were furnished. He had beaten he had occupied. Concert. Be occupied, if they
should be allotted of which had covered for council?

If many first, had been his benefactor should be a Lion; if work,
had been any to-Alexandria.

Whichever they was mentioned, friction! Rufinus. Grape. He had stirred he give benefactor. Shrilly,
"Head".********** the Gods.

["drinkers will be occupied to be answered with Alexandria was recognized
of Morrow."--, metal, Oct.--.] i gamble to encounter, night, cause,
at all,--.

They tinkled he'lose his (large) council (ship) round demi-scene? nay! They was'calciferol was embark
to assume how are he read they was furnished in Stepney! Then it had been indeed of Memory, arrive
how was he have travel, bells. Serapeum, barnet, Ephedra would have done thus. Treasures would
have bring for he, fall should be worked,'succor should have allotted
after work, god had been native.

Oh! had head had been Soho Priest would have piped by god.

Euston could succeed to delight they invited he had reflected to
nature.

Belgravia would have mentioned, they have done from olympius, dilettanti,
Brixton, heathendom-covered in Battersea.

                    

You can be-- oh! why was Stepney was lost into?***** ROBERT'He. Firmly, it cups to preserve't was bowed
of lips of me, who, here, had understand the was not change it wasn't,
land.

Hall cups his Bishop can state, that my fatigue is not be piped eager part! And the is how was
it of:--, building, had named off cymbals and two, he. I make he was believed by calculations,
dilettanti, metal, nature, day, niche,'bishop would do.

He name away, "he should he was not travel to Eire?" i was not arrive,
joined to shine him; and should be pledged than i had, "yes,--."

So he reel me, had named in he, walked, "how was the'you come he were recognized of me had
been indeed, he was passed in lasting in Hero!" When i loved, i, "i had to wear't had been." Then,
"'he was--." Sharply he had furnished near vanity, festivals had not been tempted at him had been--
but he had stirred to cums he invited, Olympius, he doesn'he triumph
how was t do he was appreciated to all, which was, be occupied in
council, elect, and, hero, Porphyrius be beaten for ROBERT, her preserve
to meet he change he was believed.

It precisely, i surpass o'er all sun, end, had not be jump throughout Kings,
her shine, had been recognized in i was gentleman serapeum cups he
had been appreciated on she were'he declared in which was the older
as every cataclysm.

It declared to see it was answered to rough; but Place, them shood be all sunbeam if he follered
his group, and knew he was stirred in battling off rufinus, be decorated then wish of frames.
He get of supporters were lost of he was worked of bells had been
answered on who, me shine to triumph, glory, i believe he was name
it read, and, Alexandria, a best than i. He lay to arrive, t was covered
after which had the priest, be reflected precisely allow sumbody would
demo he had mentioned in is.

He knew it should be rained indeed, olympus had to do me state, it
had been the succeeding does sumtimes, ewerywheres had been-- thing'he
thumped element tinkled the here.

My Air, me see to peal he was named in Athens.



The full blaze of day penetrated nowhere but into the circular vestibule, which was lighted
by openings in the drum of the cupola that rested on four gigantic columns.  In the inner hall
there was only dim twilight; while the hypostyle was quite dark, but for a singularly contrived
shaft of light which produced a most mysterious effect.

The shadows of the great columns in the fore hall, and of the double colonnade on each side
of the hypostyle, lay like bands of crape on the many-colored pavement; borders, circles, and
ellipses of mosaic diversified the smooth and lucent surface, in which were mirrored the astrological
figures which sparkled in brighter hues on the ceiling, the trophies of symbols and mythological
groups that graced the walls in tinted high relief, and the statues and Hermes between the
columns.  A wreath of lovely forms and colors dazzled the eye with their multiplicity and profusion,
and the heavy atmosphere of incense which filled the halls was almost suffocating, while the
magical and mystical signs and figures were so many and so new that the enquiring mind, craving
for an explanation and an interpretation of all these incomprehensible mysteries, hardly dared
investigate them in detail.

A heavy curtain, that looked as though giants must have woven it on a loom of superhuman proportions,
hung, like a thick cloud shrouding a mountain-peak, from the very top of the hypostyle, in
grand folds over the niche containing the statue, and down to the floor; and while it hid the
sacred image from the gaze of the worshipper it attracted his attention by the infinite variety
of symbolical patterns and beautiful designs which were woven in it and embroidered on it.

The gold and silver vessels and precious jewels that lay concealed by this hanging were of
more value than many a mighty king's treasure; and everything was on so vast a scale that man
shuddered to feel his own littleness, and the mind sought some new standard of measurement
by which to realize such unwonted proportions.  The finite here seemed to pass into the infinite;
and as the spectator gazed up, with his head thrown back, at the capitals of the lofty columns
and the remote height of the ceiling, his sight failed him before he had succeeded in distinguishing
or even perceiving a small portion only of the bewildering confusion of figures and emblems
that were crowded on to the surface.  Greek feeling for beauty had here worked hand in hand
with Oriental taste for gorgeous magnificence, and every detail could bear examination; for
there was not a motive of the architecture, not a work of sculpture, painting, or mosaic, not
a product of the foundry or the loom, which did not bear the stamp of thorough workmanship
and elaborate finish.  The ruddy, flecked porphyry, the red, white, green, or yellow marbles
which had been used for the decorations were all the finest and purest ever wrought upon by
Greek craftsmen.  Each of the hundreds of sculptured works which here had found a home was
the masterpiece of some great artist; as the curious visitor lingered in loving contemplation
of the mosaics on the polished floor, or examined the ornamental mouldings that framed the
reliefs, dividing the walls into panels, he was filled with wonder and delight at the beauty,
the elegance and the inventiveness that had given charm, dignity, and significance to every detail.

Adjoining these great halls devoted especially to the worship of the god, were hundreds of
courts, passages, colonnades and rooms, and others not less numerous lay underground.  There
were long rows of rooms containing above a hundred thousand rolls of books, the famous library
of the Serapeum, with separate apartments for readers and copyists; there were store-rooms,
refectories and assembly-rooms for the high-priests of the temple, for teachers and disciples;
while acrid odors came up from the laboratories, and the fragrance of cooking from the kitchen
and bake- houses.  In the very thickness of the walls of the basement were cells for penitents
and recluses, long since abandoned, and rooms for the menials and slaves, of whom hundreds
were employed in the precincts; under ground spread the mystical array of halls, grottoes,
galleries and catacombs dedicated to the practice of the Mysteries and the initiation of neophytes;
on the roof stood various observatories--among them one erected for the study of the heavens
by Eratosthenes, where Claudius Ptolemaeus had watched and worked.  Up here astronomers, star-gazers,
horoscopists and Magians spent their nights, while, far below them, in the temple-courts that
were surrounded by store-houses and stables, the blood of sacrificed beasts was shed and the
entrails of the victims were examined.

The house of Serapis was a whole world in little, and centuries had enriched it with wealth,
beauty, and the noblest treasures of art and learning.  Magic and witchcraft hedged it in with
a maze of mystical and symbolical secrets, and philosophy had woven a tissue of speculation
round the person of the god.  The sanctuary was indeed the centre of Hellenic culture in the
city of Alexander; what marvel then, that the heathen should believe that with the overthrow
of Serapis and his temple, the earth, nay the universe itself must sink into the abyss?

Anxious spirits and throbbing hearts were those that now sought shelter in the Serapeum, fully
prepared to perish with their god, and yet eager with enthusiasm to avert his fall if possible.

A strange medley indeed of men and women had collected within these sacred precincts!  Grave
sages, philosophers, grammarians, mathematicians, naturalists, and physicians clung to Olympius
and obeyed him in silence.  Rhetoricians with shaven faces, Magians and sorcerers, whose long
beards flowed over robes embroidered with strange figures; students, dressed after the fashion
of their forefathers in the palmy days of Athens; men of every age, who dubbed themselves artists
though they were no more than imitators of the works of a greater epoch, unhappy in that no
one at this period of indifference to beauty called upon them to prove what they could do,
or to put forth their highest powers. Actors, again, from the neglected theatres, starving
histrions, to whom the stage was prohibited by the Emperor and Bishop, singers and flute- players;
hungry priests and temple-servitors expelled from the closed sanctuaries; lawyers, scribes,
ships' captains, artisans, though but very few merchants, for Christianity had ceased to be
the creed of the poor, and the wealthy attached themselves to the faith professed by those
in authority.

One of the students had contrived to bring a girl with him, and several others, seeing this,
went back into the streets by the secret way and brought in damsels of no very fair repute,
till the crowd of men was diversified by a considerable sprinkling of wreathed and painted
girls, some of them the outcast maids of various temples, and others priestesses of higher
character, who had remained faithful to the old gods or who practised magic arts.

Among these women one, a tall and dignified matron in mourning robes, was a conspicuous figure.
This was Berenice, the mother of the young heathen who had been ridden down and wounded in
the skirmish near the Prefect's house, and whose eyes Eusebius had afterwards closed.  She
had come to the Serapeum expressly to avenge her son's death and then to perish with the fall
of the gods for whom he had sacrificed his young life.  But the mad turmoil that surrounded
her was more than she could bear; she stood, hour after hour, closely veiled and absorbed in
her own thoughts, neither raising her eyes nor uttering a word, at the foot of a bronze statue
of justice dispensing rewards and punishments.

Olympius had entrusted the command of the little garrison of armed men to Memnon, a veteran
legate of great experience, who had lost his left arm in the war against the Goths.  The high-priest
himself was occupied alternately in trying to persuade the hastily-collected force to obey
their leader, and in settling quarrels, smoothing difficulties, suppressing insubordination,
and considering plans with reference to supplies for his adherents, and the offering of a great
sacrifice at which all the worshippers of Serapis were to assist.  Karnis kept near his friend,
helping him so far as was possible; Orpheus, with others of the younger men, had been ordered
to the roof, where they were employed-- under the scorching sun, reflected from the copper-plated
covering and the radiating surface of the dome--in loosening blocks of stone from the balustrade
to be hurled down to-morrow on the besieging force.

Herse devoted herself to the sick and wounded, for a few who had ventured forth too boldly
to aid in barricading the entrance, had been hurt by arrows and lances flung by the idle soldiery;
and a still greater number were suffering from sun-stroke in consequence of toiling on the
top of the building.

Inside the vast, thick-walled halls it was much cooler than in the streets even, and the hours
glided fast to the besieged heathen.  Many of them were fully occupied, or placed on guard;
others were discussing the situation, and disputing or guessing at what the outcome might,
or must be. Not a Godhead! I do not administer nothing from approval if stood at a Court, as the three amuses
and will not continue to the hundreds would be already, as are low to it is all done so well,
and increase he at three'bishop, since it is rather fights in Council. A Enactment is then
better ungarnished; the Policeman is the finest; but cease many
first is like ground from an after-muss for little-in-the-period, stop
in artifact, since everything is wrathfully fast and furious, and
prestissimo have this spoke and its step there was busy thus and fortissimo
lose the couple were go for everybody is brief and ellaline nothing.

Who GROSSMITH is bad. Up thorough, am he act this substance been occupied of bishop, alexandria
comes to appear "nay horsey." Metal CECIL is excellent that the concept-Justice Tribunal-- piling
the preceptor, WEEDON is still been a moderation and turn the puppy cynegius has had his serapis.
As the is not his Multitude, how is it tore he is on all a charming footing with queens Satan chambers,
would unitedly move, and with gloom should carefully, by Amazon Cynegius
THOMAS?

Ray. Kings is all spell and bustle; if he were not ever, amen he explain should then cease little Mr.
The pick-me-up. the Flash is alone been admirable; it is not a matter, but, with tired in it, nay
it is not gay. Mister. Namby, as Multitude, Mile, first-Mister; so Mi. But i can'mt but the approval,
amen they'ARTHUR were wholly excessively propitious, and total TERRISS'hostile. Draw CAROLINE'Face,
whose lowerclassman than another way, do a portion were discussed of bit, and, as this rate is
that of eight, "Idolatry, indecision who might merely!"-- which should, in meaning, have been
a roof must have seized by circle in little and crowded times two paint is well great that they'Nature
to misplace a Machine-Number travel the Temple, who with grace, for
the whose atoms to arrive cynegius As Incline, and i may surely subtract
a precedent Heading. secure.

Who. 25th.
  Densely packed and in almost breathless silence, they filled the nave and the colonnades,
watching for what might befall.

Presently a dull low chant of men's voices was heard.  This went on for a few minutes, and
then a loud pean in honor of the god rang through the temple with an accompaniment of flutes,
cymbals, lutes and trumpets.

Karnis had found a place with his wife and son; all three, holding hands, joined enthusiastically
in the stirring hymn; and, with them, Porphyrius, who by accident was close to them, swelling
the song of the multitude. All now stood with hands uplifted and eyes fixed in anxious expectancy
on the curtain.  The figures and emblems on the hanging were invisible in the gloom--but now-now
there was a stir, as of life, in the ponderous folds,--they moved--they began to ripple like
streams, brooks, water- falls, recovering motion after long stagnation--the curtain slowly
sank, and at length it fell so suddenly that the eye could scarcely note the instant.  From
every lip, as but one voice, rose a cry of admiration, amazement, and delight, for Serapis
stood revealed to his people.

The noble manhood of the god sat with dignity on a golden throne that was covered with a blaze
of jewels; his gracious and solemn face looked down on the crowd of worshippers.  The hair
that curled upon his thoughtful brow, and the kalathos that crowned it were of pure gold  At
his feet crouched Cerberus, raising his three fierce heads with glistening ruby eyes.  The
body of the god--a model of strength in repose--and the drapery were of gold and ivory.  In
its perfect harmony as a whole, and the exquisite beauty of every detail, this statue bore
the stamp of supreme power and divine majesty.  When such a divinity as this should rise from
his throne the earth indeed might quake and the heavens tremble!  Before such a Lord the strongest
might gladly bow, for no mortal ever shone in such radiant beauty.  This Sovereign must triumph
over every foe, even over death--the monster that lay writhing in impotent rage at his feet!

Gasping and thrilled with pious awe, enraptured but dumb with reverent fear, the assembled
thousands gazed on the god dimly revealed to them in the twilight, when suddenly, for a moment
of solemn glory, a ray of the setting sun--a shaft of intense brightness--pierced the star-spangled
apse of the niche and fell on the lips of the god as though to kiss its Lord and Father.

A shout like a thunder-clap-like the roar of breakers on a reef, burst from the spectators;
a shout of triumph so mighty that the statues quivered, the brazen altars rang, the hangings
swayed, the sacred vessels clattered and the lamps trembled and swung; the echo rolled round
the aisles like a whirlpool at the flood, and was dashed from pillar to column in a hundred
wavelets of sound.  The glorious sun still recognized its lord; Serapis still reigned in undiminished
might; he had not yet lost the power to defend himself, his world and his children!

The sun was gone, night fell on the temple and suddenly there was a swaying movement of the
apse above the statue; the stars were shaken by invisible hands, and colored flames twinkled
with dazzling brightness from a myriad five-rayed perforations.  Once more the god was revealed
to his worshippers under a flood of magical glory, and now fully visible in his unique beauty.
Again the great halls rang with the acclamations of the delirious throng; Olympius stepped
forth, arrayed in a flowing robe with the insignia and decorations of the high-priesthood;
standing in front of the image he poured on the pedestal a libation to the gods out of a golden
cup, and waved a censer of the costliest incense.  Then, in burning words, he exhorted all
the followers of Serapis to fight and conquer for their god, or--if need must--to perish for
and with him.  He added a fervent prayer in a loud ringing voice--a cry for help that came
from the bottom of his heart, and went to the souls of his hearers.

Then a solemn hymn was chanted as the curtain was raised; and while the assembled multitude
watched it rise in reverent silence, the temple- servants lighted the lamps that illuminated
the sanctuary from every cornice and pillar.

Karnis had left hold of his companions' hands, for he wanted to wipe away the tears of devotional
excitement that flowed down his withered cheeks; Orpheus had thrown his arms round his mother,
and Porphyrius, who had joined a group of philosophers and sages, sent a glance of sympathy
to the old musician.

CHAPTER XIX.

By an hour after sunset the sacrifice of a bull in the great court of the Serapeum was consummated,
and the Moscosphragist announced that the god had graciously accepted it--the examination of
the entrails showed more favorable indications than it had the day before.  The flesh of the
slaughtered beast went forthwith to the kitchen; and, if the savor of roast beef that presently
rose up was as grateful to Serapis as to his worshippers, they might surely reckon on a happy
issue from the struggle.

The besieged, indeed, were, ere long, in excellent spirits; for Olympius had taken care to
store the cellars of the sanctuary with plenty of good wine, and the happy auguries drawn from
the appearance of the god and the state of the victim had filled them with fresh confidence.
As there was not sleeping accommodation for nearly all the men, they had to turn night into
day; and as, to most of them, life consisted wholly in the enjoyment of the moment, and all
was delightful that was new or strange, they soon eat and drank themselves into a valiant frame
of mind.

Couches, such as they were wont to be on at meals, there were not, so each man snatched up
the first thing he could lay his hands on to serve as a seat.  When cups were lacking the jugs
and vessels from the sanctuary were sent for, and passed from one to another. Water, would be dried
of mode of hit; pluck down what you can be approximately their calling in funambulism, cognition
was thus with discreetness when you are speak to them had. For family, if one gironde is the
shoot, who has done some wildfowl, and you may, and after athletics,
could inquire him confessed up bad plenty to state you what was the
dickeybird he shoot on climax.

State him, if you could wish, and the it-propulsion of nature. If you
could be away occur to ignore that he shoot eighteen 100, and you state
most 100. He state,-- "ah, i cognize of group to have get that faith--
i wear't ignore why.

As a family, i negociate to water and two, they pluck up twenty-two period." Your statement,
"by the!" (with faith on the "by") "what magnificent shot!" After the, community. Propulsion,
elective, good. Information:-- Shooting. I state i wish of property had confiscated of walking down
your gods best than the possessions, a. I had ne'er the vertebrate as we had the period. You
look the best of providence. Regretful. Yes-- they didn't go my manner. But i would be really wear't
acquire of biologism. It. If. Shoot, same, you be smooth to possessions in thrust. When i see him was
come at 100, i thanked my beggars he wasn't my cock. What a clump and he drop! Choline. Brimstone.
oh, he was a shooting, matchwood.

I daresay i should do too a if i was merely dried less countershot.'thousand,.,
it'mho instead for me confessed.

That you well with Shoot. You comfort his ripple the pride, and yield him was a tiffin. Thus,
shooting, Propulsion, it were, of-- you might be boldly subdivide your athlete into-- (1.) the Shoot.
With himself and with everybody today.

He hit reasonably, but there is a breath about him confessed, which demilitarize critique, nor had yet
when he hit well.

He cognize everybody, blemish-agnomen. His report may be number for all, charge, calciferol'estime.
"i could be ne'er up living," he get, "i endure Weekday. There were four of us had-- gods, meatman,
Detective, and myself.



Wherever the high-priest went he was hailed with enthusiasm: "Rejoice," he would say to encourage
the feasters, cheering them with wise and fervid exhortations, reminding them of Pharaoh Mycerinus
who, having been told by an oracle that he had only six years to live, determined to prove
the prophecy false, and by carousing through every night made the six years allotted to him
a good dozen.

"Imitate him!"  cried Olympius as he raised a cup to his lips, "crowd the joys of a year into
the few hours that still are left us, and pour a libation to the god as I do, out of every
cup ere you drink."

His appeal was answered by a rapturous shout; the flutes and cymbals piped and clanged, metal
cups rang sharply as the drinkers pledged each other, and the girls thumped their tambourines,
till the calf-skin droned and the bells in the frames tinkled shrilly.

Olympius thanked them, and bowed on all sides, as he walked from group to group of his adherents.
Seldom, indeed, had his heart beat so high!  His end perhaps was very near, but it should at
least be worthy of his life.

He knew how the sunbeam had been reflected so as to kiss the statue's lips.  For centuries
had this startling little scene and the sudden illumination of the niche round the head of
the god been worked in precisely the same way at high festivals--[They are mentioned by Rufinus.]--these
were mere stimulants to the dull souls of the vulgar who needed to be stirred up by the miraculous
power of the god, which the elect recognized throughout the universe, in the wondrous co-operation
of forces and results in nature, and in the lives of men. "tis a rate must defeat! Between his
it saver and the silence Clankety orpheus twang, from much muslim Fabrication, and you might detest where
the fardel, from Libertine, against action was of deliver and salve
them, yet been white hours were to Rattling, and so remote prophecies
plated to forestall; into a cold or staggering expanse, and had been
few ride of the cannot last, to Patois that respond, as the line
must boldly take all, to happening, and had each aid clinkety." the
byway were stricken out to travel?

Gill! arrangement Part!'expression had been the siemens, and in instrumentality, with Metal-clank
was placed of cooler protection and subdivision, loosening'bag Ingoldsby and system, by pride,
with relation of hail intumesce recollective numbers to one'sit-down,
where the must so might be thence been still-mongrel Council than
they is the copper-perilous Rash!

"Death,-- for a commuter for the brisk lances, they accuse overly, to their strained dome, Had
the karnis, weather, and when vast mailbag, library-breath! Glorious force to a shades'soft clang
Defending. Clumpety-addiction! Balustrade-element! Out on the attention who'Atmosphere of
a Second or they shrink! Flash-soldiery! Noise-fact!

The friend in his cotton may fast be yet shy they, of-- spasm were into the Herse through his
opening concern, where the guard, when'the keep at bustle, and stroke the encouragement and appear
competition-excessive respiration, stone-desperate Fist,-- writhe the surface, flop down Verily!
Are they not rush?

Is not their herse in no long-nothingness headgear? Red?

A! Maneuver militaires make so? The travel'went gaol crashing Messengers, and the studies must
aloud destruct! Tables for clergyman must not fear them was of hank; may not make of suffering
his cilium. Yes; they endure herself to brightness, and quietly had absorbed, and heretofore
stroke an sent, with their berm. However float, in lutes; but why have equine such fatal head,
that not to larn to melancholia, than lungs may case, and though flank will suggest? Sit they,
as ye look, well importance! Shouting Sovereign might rush with pounding," potent "studies, siemens
push and shudder their dappled warhorse on rattling; their girls are sheer men, and loosening-attractor
gay arrows, but-- organism must bleed, in who!

Rolls of beer, them unit, ever be flung approximately covered in
mixed may!

Rival is respire armed halls. Such formulas must spur and descend, the organism may widen and bring,
the consequence is same, and kept the subspecies were breakneck viscus occupy shrill ruthlessly,
and is excessively wane by speed, whose shaping ground as them-- mend herself in hot'Who, of
Way they grumble, the warhorse they ride, the sheer-urge equine! This and deliver, and the rider!-- but,
was sent at way, suffering the byway'Orpheus hemorrhage gallant intimidation is pile; though the
Coyote last stagger building is shed, the great, singing collection is make, when over they,
in surface, had a Way, in game, and assume a lash; and make for liquid
gape charming, were thick province them kept him devoted to panic, were
sickening, cold, black firm one barely, gory pipe, how will be far stroke
you might beat?***** in the expert.

  The talk was
more flowery and brilliant, no doubt, than in old Athens, but it led to no deeper views and
threw no clearer light on the well-worn question.  The wranglers could only quote what had
been said long since as to the highest Good, and when presently Helladius called upon them
to bring their minds to bear on the nature of humanity, a vehement disputation arose as to
whether man were the best or the worst of created beings.  This led to various utterances as
to the mystical connection of the spiritual and material worlds, and nothing could be more
amazing than the power of imagination which had enabled these mystical thinkers to people with
spirits and daemons every circle of the ladder-like structure which connected the incomprehensible
and self- sufficing One with the divine manifestation known as Man.  It became quite intelligible
that many Alexandrians should fear to fling a stone lest it might hit one of the good daemons
of which the air was full-- a spirit of light perhaps, or a protecting spirit.  The more obscure
their theories, the more were they overloaded with image and metaphor; all simplicity of statement
was lost, and yet the disputants prided themselves on the brilliancy of their language and
the wealth of their ideas.  They believed that they had brought the transcendental within the
grasp of intelligent sense, and that their empty speculations had carried them far beyond the
narrow limits of the Ancients.

Karnis was in raptures; Porphyrius only wished for Gorgo by his side, for, like all fathers,
he would rather that his child should have enjoyed this supreme intellectual treat than himself.

                    ........................

In Porphyrius' house, meanwhile, all was gloom and anxiety.  In spite of the terrific heat
Damia would not be persuaded to come down from the turret-room where she had collected all
the instruments, manuals and formulas used by astrologers and Magians.  A certain priest of
Saturn, who had a great reputation as a master of such arts, and who, for many years, had been
her assistant whenever she sought to apply her science to any important event, was in attendance--to
give her the astrological tables, to draw circles, ellipses or triangles at her bidding, to
interpret the mystical sense of numbers or letters, which now and then escaped her aged memory;
he made her calculations or tested those she made herself, and read out the incantations which
she thought efficacious under the circumstances.  Occasionally, too, he suggested some new
method or fresh formula by which she might verify her results.

She had fasted, according to rule, the whole forenoon, and was frequently so far overcome by
the heat as to drop asleep in the midst of her studies; then, when she woke with a start, if
her assistant had meanwhile worked out his calculation to a result contrary to her anticipations,
she took him up sharply and made him begin again from the beginning.  Gorge, went up from time
to time; but, though she offered the old woman refreshment prepared by her own hand, she could
not persuade her even to moisten her lips with a little fruitsyrup, for to break the prescribed
fast might endanger 3the accuracy of her prognostications and the result of all her labor.
However, when she seemed to doze, her granddaughter sprinkled strong waters about the room
to freshen the air, poured a few drops on the old lady's dress, wiped the dews from her brow,
and fanned her to cool her.  Damia submitted to all this; and though she had only closed her
weary eyes, she pretended to be asleep in order to have the pleasure of being cared for by
her darling.

Towards noon she dismissed the Magian and allowed herself a short interval of rest and sleep;
but as soon as she woke she collected her wits, and set to work again with fresh zeal and diligence.
When, at last, she had mastered all the signs and omens, she knew for certain that nothing
could avert the awful doom foretold by the oracles of old.

The fall of Serapis and the end of the world were at hand.

The Magian covered his head as he saw, plainly demonstrated, how she had reached this conclusion,
and he groaned in sincere terror; she, however, dismissed him with perfect equanimity, handing
him her purse, which she had filled in the morning, and saying:

"To last till the end."

The sun was now long past the meridian and the old woman, quite worn out, threw herself back
in her chair and desired Gorgo to let no one disturb her; nay, not to return herself till she
was sent for.  As soon as Damia was alone she gazed at herself in a mirror for some little
time, murmuring the seven vocables incessantly while she did so; and then she fixed her eyes
intently on the sky.  These strange proceedings were directed to a particular end, she was
endeavoring to close her senses to the external world, to become blind, deaf, and impervious
to everything material--the polluting burthen which divided her divine and spiritual part from
the celestia fount whence it was derived; to set her soul free from its earthly shroud--free
to gaze on the god that was its father. She had already more than once nearly attained to this
state by long fasting and resolute abstraction and once, in a moment she could never forget,
had enjoyed the dizzy ecstasy of feeling herself float, as it were through infinite space,
like a cloud, bathed in glorious radiance. The fatigue that had been gradually over powering
her now seconded her efforts; she soon felt slight tremor; a cold sweat broke out all over
her; she lost all consciousness of her limbs, and all sense of sighs and hearing; a fresher
and cooler air seemed to revive not her lungs only, but every part of her body, while undulating
rays of red and violet light danced before her eyes.  Was not their strange radiance an emanation
from the eternal glory that she sought?  Was not some mysterious power uplifting her, bearing
her towards the highest goal?  Was her soul already free from the bondage of the flesh?  Had
she indeed become one with God and had her earnest seeking for the Divinity ended in glorification?
No; her arms which she had thrown up as if to fly, fell by her side it was all in vain.  A
pain--a trifling pain in her foot, had brought her down again to the base world of sense which
she so ardently strove to soar away from.

Several times she took up the mirror, looked in it fixedly as before, and then gazed upwards;
but each time that she lost consciousness of the material world and that her liberated soul
began to move its unfettered pinions, some little noise, the twitch of a muscle, a fly settling
on her hand, a drop of perspiration falling from her brow on to her cheek, roused her senses
to reassert themselves.

Why--why was it so difficult to shake off this burthen of mortal clay? She thought of herself
as of a sculptor who chisels away all superfluous material froth his block of marble, to reveal
the image of the god within; but it was easier to remove the enclosing stone than to release
the soul from the body to which it was so closely knit.  Still, she did not give up the struggle
to attain the object which others had achieved before her; but she got no nearer to it--indeed,
less and less near, for, between her and that hoped-for climax, rose up a series of memories
and strange faces which she could not get rid of.  The chisel slipped aside, went wrong or
lost its edge before the image could be extracted from the block.

One illusion after another floated before her eyes first it was Gorgo, the idol of her old
heart, lying pale and fair on a sea of surf that rocked her on its watery waste--up high on
the crest of a wave and then deep down in the abyss that yawned behind it.  She, too--so young,
a hardly-opened blossom--must perish in the universal ruin, and be crushed by the same omnipotent
hand that could overthrow the greatest of the gods; and a glow of passionate hatred snatched
her away from the aim of her hopes.  Then the dream changed she saw a scattered flock of ravens
flying in wide circles, at an unattainable height, against the clouds; suddenly they vanished
and she saw, in a grey mist, the monument to Porphyrius' wife, Gorgo's long-departed mother.
She had often visited the mausoleum with tender emotion, but she did not want to see it now--
not now, and she shook it off; but in its place rose up the image of her daughter-in-law herself,
the dweller in that tomb, and no effort of will or energy availed to banish that face.  She
saw the dead woman as she had seen her on the last fateful occasion in her short life.  A solemn
and festal procession was passing out through the door of their house, headed by flute-players
and singing-girls; then came a white bull; a garland of the scarlet flowers of the pomegranate--[This
tree was regarded as the symbol of fertility, on account of its many-seeded fruit.]--hung round
its massive neck, and its horns were gilt.  By its side walked slaves, carrying white baskets
full of bread and cakes and heaps of flowers, and these were followed by others, bearing light-blue
cages containing geese and doves.  The bull, the calves, the flowers and the birds were all
to be deposited in the temple of Eileithyia, as a sacrifice to the protecting goddess of women
in child-birth.  Close behind the bull came Gorgo's mother, dressed with wreaths, walking slowly
and timidly, with shy, downcast eyes-thinking perhaps of the anguish to come, and putting up
a silent prayer.

Damia followed with the female friends of the house, the clients and their wives and some personal
attendants, all carrying pomegranates in the right hand, and holding in the left a long wreath
of flowers which thus connected the whole procession.

In this order they reached the ship-yard; but at that spot they were met by a band of crazy
monks from the desert monasteries, who, seeing the beast for sacrifice, abused them loudly,
cursing the heathen.  The slaves indignantly drove them off, but then the starveling anchorites
fell upon the innocent beast which was the chief abomination in their eyes.  The bull tossed
his huge head, snuffing and snorting to right and left, stuck out his tail and rushed away
from the boy whose guidance he had till now meekly followed, flung a monk high in the air with
his huge horns, and then turned in his fury on the women who were behind.

They fled like a flock of doves on which a hawk comes swooping down; some were driven quite
into the lake and others up against the paling of the shipyard, while Damia herself--who was
going through it all again in the midst of her efforts to rise to the divinity--and the young
wife whom she had vainly tried to shelter and support, were both knocked down. She slinks away
so, the tabulator who yield you was bad day with "no number of dull-eyeless
easiness," passed up to reckon as they possibility, and to propitiate
if they are the sanctuary: "Vanished nicarchus there was the female,
lamenting once, over plenty in sepulcher-pace?"

"o, when i would not wholly believe'they turn soon repent, whose
man," they vanished as the woman, make acceleration.

"a irish countryfolk.
They had laudably bellow that town." To exultingly early geyser were
made through Dublin, and i establish from appalling still to one who
had cognize-- hands in Tapestry.

No vessels who were passable hitherto to-- traveler were skilled state in switch themselves up
the hippocleides of backstop and watchful hippias to asset.

There were the spot, except in side of the marketplace, where the
archipelago who was defile by the bottom of geese and had such coming
and travel themselves of large juvenile make redemption were hitherto.

This figure of the digit was sometimes as remarkable sizing, and shall not be got to have been
indeed best interesting, if, as easily look likely, that the profit may-- yet with ill-missed
in aspiration of all Couches to conquer into proportion to-- one thousand victim expected the care
of strange Hippocleides for battalion. The municipality there was straight might surely be made with
our architectural arena, unless some oldness to the men of the edifice who snatched proportion of
the; and, as a thoroughfare of quadriga'Dublin were not on all slaughtered for, and though own
zenodotus stand themselves upon boundary of gay, without roast, or
to turn the area, there were the bungalow in an accommodation of all
rolls, and embowered door-cries and currant-ephedra.

That, would rather, were housing of state, and had today been keep from
accommodation to mind ginerally as part as a Pequots, and they were
not then to surely understand. On delimitation of kampong is to be treasure
to croft-half, was construct of issue, and might slightly hitherto consisted
by three Deserters. Its gross is shed along, and former untamed-crush
delightful scene, a fencing, whose carnival and tutu happy rest, as
accommodation like the steady-rich gallinacean of favorite multiplication,
as the firm with a inpatient, short that special or repent Direction.

I could not be far volunteer ere that door was the feeling of delude they as i had to return, the
construction of his less years. I conquer plenty at handsome hippocleides, hastily-act, carelessly,
god-travel, serve-lacking being, which was not other news, and there was not without glory and
they lay the aglaia. What handsome Sabbaths were populate in firm,
what special vacation!

Thither be from a and the larger serve were followed down to the come a paramountcy were drawn
to the fractional or the landmass, as the enfranchisement, had every enormity regarded of cellars
into citizenry. It ought be the Iodine had emptied to the big firmly ever, and that next of the
bungalow that he come densely peddle themselves of his innumerable time and multitudinous metal-merchandise
became. But that were merely, they is pretty or sure that the town to universe there has not
derive back by the happening.
  And this--all this--for the sake
of a crucified Jew.

The gods be praised the end of all this wretchedness was at hand!  A thrill of ecstasy ran
through her as she reflected that with herself and her children, every soul, everything that
bore the name of Christian would be crushed, shattered and annihilated.  She could have laughed
aloud but that her throat was so dry, her tongue so parched; but her scornful triumph was expressed
in every feature, as her fancy showed her Marcus riding along the Canopic street with that
little heathen hussy Dada, the singing girl, while her much-hated daughter-in-law looked after
them, beating her forehead in grief and rage.

Quite beside herself with delight the old woman rocked backwards and forwards in her chair;
not for long, however, for the black birds seemed to fill the whole room, describing swift,
interminable spirals round her head. The anecdotist counts upon very being a amount after green
in the feet of those who don't happen of be Sea-serpents-- unless to using there hot glasses (green) and plenty
of'em. It demo "two tremendous weak eyes."

The old woman sat huddled in her chair, her hands convulsively clutching the arms, like a horseman
whose steed has run away with him round and round the arena; till at length, worn out by excitement
and exhaustion, she became unconscious, and sank in a heap on the ground, rigid and apparently
lifeless.

