'Not far from your gate, for no reason that I can understand, they turned us out, and made off.'

'Honest Abraham?' Lord Almeric asked; he had listened open-mouthed.

'Every word of it,' the tutor answered.

'Then, my dear, if you have a fortune, sit down,' cried Mr. Pomeroy; and seizing a chair he
handed it with exaggerated gallantry to Julia, who still remained near the door, frowning darkly
at the trio; neither ashamed nor abashed, but proudly and coldly contemptuous. 'Make yourself
at home, my pretty,' he continued familiarly, 'for if you have a fortune it is the only one
in this house, and a monstrous uncommon thing. Is it not, my lord?'

'Lord! I vow it is!' the other drawled; and then, taking advantage of the moment when Julia's
attention was engaged elsewhere--she dumbly refused to sit, 'Where is Dunborough?' my lord
muttered.

'Heaven knows,' Mr. Thomasson whispered, with a wink that postponed inquiry. 'What is more
to the purpose,' he continued aloud, 'if I may venture to make the suggestion to your lordship
and Mr. Pomeroy, Miss Masterson has been much distressed and fatigued this evening. If there
is a respectable elderly woman in the house, therefore, to whose care you could entrust her
for the night, it were well.'

'There is old Mother Olney,' Mr. Pomeroy answered, assenting with a readier grace than the
tutor expected, 'who locked herself up an hour ago for fear of us young bloods. She should
be old and ugly enough! Here you, Jarvey, go and kick in her outworks, and bid her come down.'

'Better still, if I may suggest it,' said the tutor, who was above all things anxious to be
rid of the girl before too much was said--'Might not your servant take Miss above stairs to
this good woman--who will doubtless see to her comfort? Miss Masterson has gone through some
surprising adventures this evening, and I think it were better if you allowed her to withdraw
at once, Mr. Pomeroy.'

'Jarvey, take the lady,' Mr. Pomeroy cried. 'A sweet pretty toad she is. Here's to your eyes
and fortune, child!' he continued with an impudent grin; and filling his glass he pledged her
as she passed.

After that he stood watching while Mr. Thomasson opened the door and bowed her out; and this
done and the door closed after her, 'Lord, what ceremony!' he said, with an ugly sneer. 'Is't
real, man, or are you bubbling her? And what is this Cock-lane story of a chaise and the rest?
Out with it, unless you want to be tossed in a blanket.'

'True, upon my honour!' Mr. Thomasson asseverated.

'Oh, but Tommy, the fortune?' Lord Almeric protested seriously. 'I vow you are sharping us.'

'True too, my lord, as I hope to be saved!'

'True? Oh, but it is too monstrous absurd,' my lord wailed. 'The Little Masterson? As pretty
a little tit as was to be found in all Oxford. The Little Masterson a fortune?'

'She has eyes and a shape,' Mr. Pomeroy admitted generously. 'For the rest, what is the figure,
Mr. Thomasson?' he continued. 'There are fortunes and fortunes.'

Mr. Thomasson looked at the gallery above, and thence, and slyly, to his companions and back
again to the gallery; and swallowed something that rose in his throat. At length he seemed
to make up his mind to speak the truth, though when he did so it was in a voice little above
a whisper. 'Fifty thousand,' he said, and looked guiltily round him.

Lord Almeric rose from his chair as if on springs. 'Oh, I protest!' he said. 'You are roasting
us. Fifty thousand! It's a bite?'

But Mr. Thomasson nodded. 'Fifty thousand,' he repeated softly. 'Fifty thousand.'

'Pounds?' gasped my lord. 'The Little Masterson?'

The tutor nodded again; and without asking leave, with a dogged air unlike his ordinary bearing
when he was in the company of those above him, he drew a decanter towards him, and filling
a glass with a shaking hand raised it to his lips and emptied it. The three were on their feet
round the table, on which several candles, luridly lighting up their faces, still burned; while
others had flickered down, and smoked in the guttering sockets, among the empty bottles and
the litter of cards. In one corner of the table the lees of wine had run upon the oak, and
dripped to the floor, and formed a pool, in which a broken glass lay in fragments beside the
overturned chair. An observant eye might have found on the panels below the gallery the vacant
nails and dusty lines whence Lelys and Knellers, Cuyps and Hondekoeters had looked down on
two generations of Pomeroys. But in the main the disorder of the scene centred in the small
table and the three men standing round it; a lighted group, islanded in the shadows of the hall.

Mr. Pomeroy waited with impatience until Mr. Thomasson lowered his glass. Then, 'Let us have
the story,' he said. 'A guinea to a China orange the fool is tricking us.'

The tutor shook his head, and turned to Lord Almeric. 'You know Sir George Soane,' he said.
'Well, my lord, she is his cousin.'

'Oh, tally, tally!' my lord cried. 'You--you are romancing, Tommy!'

'And under the will of Sir George's grandfather she takes fifty thousand pounds, if she make
good her claim within a certain time from to-day.'

'Oh, I say, you are romancing!' my lord repeated, more feebly. 'You know, you really should
not! It is too uncommon absurd, Tommy.'

'It's true!' said Mr. Thomasson.

'What? That this porter's wench at Pembroke has fifty thousand pounds?' cried Mr. Pomeroy.
'She is the porter's wench, isn't she?' he continued. Something had sobered him. His eyes shone,
and the veins stood out on his forehead. But his manner was concise and harsh, and to the point.

Mr. Thomasson. glanced at him stealthily, as one gamester scrutinises another over the cards.
'She is Masterson, the porter's, foster-child,' he said.

'But is it certain that she has the money?' the other cried rudely. 'Is it true, man? How do
you know? Is it public property?'

'No,' Mr. Thomasson answered, 'it is not public property. But it is certain and it is true!'
Then, after a moment's hesitation, 'I saw some papers--by accident,' he said, his eyes on the
gallery.

'Oh, d--n your accident!' Mr. Pomeroy cried brutally. 'You are very fine to-night. You were
not used to be a Methodist! Hang it, man, we know you,' he continued violently, 'and this is
not all! This does not bring you and the girl tramping the country, knocking at doors at midnight
with Cock-lane stories of chaises and abductions. Come to it, man, or--'

'Oh, I say,' Lord Almeric protested weakly. 'Tommy is an honest man in his way, and you are
too stiff with him.'

'D--n him! my lord; let him come to the point then,' Mr. Pomeroy retorted savagely. 'Is she
in the way to get the money?'

'She is,' said the tutor sullenly.

'Then what brings her here--with you, of all people?'

'I will tell you if you will give me time, Mr. Pomeroy,' the tutor said plaintively. And he
proceeded to describe in some detail all that had happened, from the fons et origo mali--Mr.
Dunborough's passion for the girl--to the stay at the Castle Inn, the abduction at Manton Corner,
the strange night journey in the chaise, and the stranger release.

When he had done, 'Sir George was the girl's fancy-man, then?' Pomeroy said, in the harsh overbearing
tone he had suddenly adopted.

The tutor nodded.

'And she thinks he has tricked her?'

'But for that and the humour she is in,' Mr. Thomasson answered, with a subtle glance at the
other's face, 'you and I might talk here till Doomsday, and be none the better, Mr. Pomeroy.'

His frankness provoked Mr. Pomeroy to greater frankness. 'Consume your impertinence!' he cried.
'Speak for yourself.'

'She is not that kind of woman,' said Mr. Thomasson firmly.

'Kind of woman?' cried Mr. Pomeroy furiously. 'I am this kind of man. Oh, d--n you! If you
want plain speaking you shall have it! She has fifty thousand, and she is in my house; well,
I am this kind of man! I'll not let that money go out of the house without having a fling at
it! It is the devil's luck has sent her here, and it will be my folly will send her away--if
she goes. Which she does not if I am the kind of man I think I am. So there for you! There's
plain speaking.'

'You don't know her,' Mr. Thomasson answered doggedly. 'Mr. Dunborough is a gentleman of mettle,
and he could not bend her.'

'She was not in his house!' the other retorted, with a grim laugh. Then, in a lower, if not
more amicable tone, 'Look here, man,' he continued, 'd'ye mean to say that you had not something
of this kind in your mind when you knocked at this door?'

'I!' Mr. Thomasson cried, virtuously indignant.

'Ay, you! Do you mean to say you did not see that here was a chance in a hundred? In a thousand?
Ay, in a million? Fifty thousand pounds is not found in the road any day?'

Mr. Thomasson grinned in a sickly fashion. 'I know that,' he said.

'Well, what is your idea? What do you want?'

The tutor did not answer on the instant, but after stealing one or two furtive glances at Lord
Almeric, looked down at the table, a nervous smile distorting his mouth. At length, 'I want--her,'
he said; and passed his tongue furtively over his lips.

'The girl?'

'Yes.'

'Oh Lord!' said Mr. Pomeroy, in a voice of disgust.

But the ice broken, Mr. Thomasson had more to say. 'Why not?' he said plaintively. 'I brought
her here--with all submission. I know her, and--and am a friend of hers. If she is fair game
for any one, she is fair game for me. I have run a risk for her,' he continued pathetically,
and touched his brow, where the slight cut he had received in the struggle with Dunborough's
men showed below the border of his wig, 'and--and for that matter, Mr. Pomeroy is not the only
man who has bailiffs to avoid.'

'Stuff me, Tommy, if I am not of your opinion!' cried Lord Almeric. And he struck the table
with unusual energy.

Pomeroy turned on him in surprise as great as his disgust. 'What?' he cried. 'You would give
the girl and her money--fifty thousand--to this old hunks!'

'I? Not I! I would have her myself!' his lordship answered stoutly. 'Come, Pomeroy, you have
won three hundred of me, and if I am not to take a hand at this, I shall think it low! Monstrous
low I shall think it!' he repeated in the tone of an injured person. 'You know. Pom, I want
money as well as another--want it devilish bad--'

'You have not been a Sabbatarian, as I was for two months last year,' Mr. Pomeroy retorted,
somewhat cooled by this wholesale rising among his allies, 'and walked out Sundays only for
fear of the catchpolls.'

'No, but--'

'But I am not now, either. Is that it? Why, d'ye think, because I pouched six hundred of Flitney's,
and three of yours, and set the mare going again, it will last for ever?'

'No, but fair's fair, and if I am not in this, it is low. It is low, Pom,' Lord Almeric continued,
sticking to his point with abnormal spirit. 'And here is Tommy will tell you the same. You
have had three hundred of me--'

'At cards, dear lad; at cards,' Mr. Pomeroy answered easily. 'But this is not cards. Besides,'
he continued, shrugging his shoulders and pouncing on the argument, 'we cannot all marry the girl!'

'I don't know,' my lord answered, passing his fingers tenderly through his wig. 'I--I don't
commit myself to that.'

'Well, at any rate, we cannot all have the money!' Pomeroy replied, with sufficient impatience.

'But we can all try! Can't we, Tommy?'

Mr. Thomasson's face, when the question was put to him in that form, was a curious study. Mr.
Pomeroy had spoken aright when he called it a chance in a hundred, in a thousand, in a million.
It was a chance, at any rate, that was not likely to come in Mr. Thomasson's way again. True,
he appreciated more correctly than the others the obstacles in the way of success--the girl's
strong will and wayward temper; but he knew also the humour which had now taken hold of her,
and how likely it was that it might lead her to strange lengths if the right man spoke at the
right moment.

The very fact that Mr. Pomeroy had seen the chance and gauged the possibilities, gave them
a more solid aspect and a greater reality in the tutor's mind. Each moment that passed left
him less willing to resign pretensions which were no longer the shadowy creatures of the brain,
but had acquired the aspect of solid claims--claims made his by skill and exertion.

But if he defied Mr. Pomeroy, how would he stand? The girl's position in this solitary house,
apart from her friends, was half the battle; in a sneaking way, though he shrank from facing
the fact, he knew that she was at their mercy; as much at their mercy as if they had planned
the abduction from the first. Without Mr. Pomeroy, therefore, the master of the house and the
strongest spirit of the three--

He got no farther, for at this point Lord Almeric repeated his question; and the tutor, meeting
Pomeroy's bullying eye, found it necessary to say something. 'Certainly,' he stammered at a
venture, 'we can all try, my lord. Why not?'

'Ay, why not?' said Lord Almeric. 'Why not try?'

'Try? But how are you going to try?' Mr. Pomeroy responded with a jeering laugh. 'I tell you,
we cannot all marry the girl.'

Lord Almeric burst in a sudden fit of chuckling. 'I vow and protest I have it!' he cried. 'We'll
play for her! Don't you see, Pom? We'll cut for her! Ha! Ha! That is surprising clever of me;
don't you think? We'll play for her!'

CHAPTER XXIV

CUTTING FOR THE QUEEN

It was a suggestion so purely in the spirit of a day when men betted on every contingency,
public or private, decorous or the reverse, from the fecundity of a sister to the longevity
of a sire, that it sounded less indecent in the cars of Lord Almeric's companions than it does
in ours. Mr. Thomasson indeed, who was only so far a gamester as every man who had pretensions
to be a gentleman was one at that time, and who had seldom, since the days of Lady Harrington's
faro bank, staked more than he could afford, hesitated and looked dubious. But Mr. Pomeroy,
a reckless and hardened gambler, gave a boisterous assent, and in the face of that the tutor's
objections went for nothing. In a trice, all the cards and half the glasses were swept pell
mell to the floor, a new pack was torn open, the candles were snuffed, and Mr. Pomeroy, smacking
him on the back, was bidding him draw up.

'Sit down, man! Sit down!' cried that gentleman, who had regained his jovial humour as quickly
as he had lost it, and whom the prospect of the stake appeared to intoxicate. 'May I burn if
I ever played for a girl before! Hang it! man, look cheerful, We'll toast her first--and a
daintier bit never swam in a bowl--and play for her afterwards! Come, no heel-taps, my lord.
Drink her! Drink her! Here's to the Mistress of Bastwick!'

'Lady Almeric Doyley!' my lord cried, rising, and bowing with his hand to his heart, while
he ogled the door through which she had disappeared. 'I drink you! Here's to your pretty face,
my dear!'

'Mrs. Thomasson!' cried the tutor, 'I drink to you. But--'

'But what shall it be, you mean?' Pomeroy cried briskly. 'Loo, Quinze, Faro, Lansquenet? Or
cribbage, all-fours, put, Mr. Parson, if you like! It's all one to me. Name your game and I
am your man!'

'Then let us shuffle and cut, and the highest takes,' said the tutor.

'Sho! man, where is the sport in that?' Pomeroy cried, receiving the suggestion with disgust.

'It is what Lord Almeric proposed,' Mr. Thomasson answered. The two glasses of wine he had
taken had given him courage. 'I am no player, and at games of skill I am no match for you.'

A shadow crossed Mr. Pomeroy's face; but he recovered himself immediately. 'As you please,'
he said, shrugging his shoulders with a show of carelessness. 'I'll match any man at anything.
Let's to it!'

But the tutor kept his hands on the cards, which lay in a heap face downwards on the table.
'There is a thing to be settled,' he said, hesitating somewhat, 'before we draw. If she will
not take the winner--what then?'

'What then?'

'Yes, what then?'

Mr. Pomeroy grinned. 'Why, then number two will try his luck with her, and if he fail, number
three! There, my bully boy, that is settled. It seems simple enough, don't it?'

'But how long is each to have?' the tutor asked in a low voice. The three were bending over
the cards, their faces near one another. Lord Almeric's eyes turned from one to the other of
the speakers.

'How long?' Mr. Pomeroy answered, raising his eyebrows. 'Ah. Well, let's say--what do you think?
Two days?'

'And if the first fail, two days for the second?'

'There will be no second if I am first,' Pomeroy answered grimly.

'But otherwise,' the tutor persisted; 'two days for the second?'

Bully Pomeroy nodded.

'But then, the question is, can we keep her here?'

'Four days?'

'Yes.'

Mr. Pomeroy laughed harshly. 'Ay,' he said, 'or six if needs be and I lose. You may leave that
to me. We'll shift her to the nursery to-morrow.'

'The nursery?' my lord said, and stared.

'The windows are barred. Now do you understand?'

The tutor turned a shade paler, and his eyes sank slyly to the table. 'There'll--there'll be
no violence, of course,' he said, his voice a trifle unsteady.

'Violence? Oh, no, there will be no violence,' Mr. Pomeroy answered with an unpleasant sneer.
And they all laughed; Mr. Thomasson tremulously, Lord Almeric as if he scarcely entered into
the other's meaning and laughed that he might not seem outside it. Then, 'There is another
thing that must not be,' Pomeroy continued, tapping softly on the table with his forefinger,
as much to command attention as to emphasise his words, 'and that is peaching! Peaching! We'll
have no Jeremy Twitcher here, if you please.'

'No, no!' Mr. Thomasson stammered. 'Of course not.'

'No, damme!' said my lord grandly. 'No peaching!'

'No,' Mr. Pomeroy said, glancing keenly from one to the other, 'and by token I have a thought
that will cure it. D'ye see here, my lord! What do you say to the losers taking five thousand
each out of Madam's money? That should bind all together if anything will--though I say it
that will have to pay it,' he continued boastfully.

My lord was full of admiration. 'Uncommon handsome!' he said. 'Pom, that does you credit. You
have a head! I always said you had a head!'

'You are agreeable to that, my lord?'

'Burn me, if I am not.'

'Then shake hands upon it. And what say you, Parson?'

Mr. Thomasson proffered an assent fully as enthusiastic as Lord Almeric's, but for a different
reason. The tutor's nerves, never strong, were none the better for the rough treatment he had
undergone, his long drive, and his longer fast. He had taken enough wine to obscure remoter
terrors, but not the image of Mr. Dunborough--impiger, iracundus, inexorabilis, acer--Dunborough
doubly and trebly offended! That image recurred when the glass was not at his lips; and behind
it, sometimes the angry spectre of Sir George, sometimes the face of the girl, blazing with
rage, slaying him with the lightning of her contempt.

He thought that it would not suit him ill, therefore, though it was a sacrifice, if Mr. Pomeroy
took the fortune, the wife, and the risk--and five thousand only fell to him. True, the risk,
apart from that of Mr. Dunborough's vengeance, might be small; no one of the three had had
act or part in the abduction of the girl. True, too, in the atmosphere of this unfamiliar house--into
which he had been transported as suddenly as Bedreddin Hassan to the palace in the fairy tale--with
the fumes of wine and the glamour of beauty in his head, he was in a mood to minimise even
that risk. But under the jovial good-fellowship which Mr. Pomeroy affected, and strove to instil
into the party, he discerned at odd moments a something sinister that turned his craven heart
to water and loosened the joints of his knees.

The lights and cards and jests, the toasts and laughter were a mask that sometimes slipped
and let him see the death's head that grinned behind it. They were three men, alone with the
girl in a country house, of which the reputation, Mr. Thomasson had a shrewd idea, was no better
than its master's. No one outside knew that she was there; as far as her friends were concerned,
she had vanished from the earth. She was a woman, and she was in their power. What was to prevent
them bending her to their purpose?

It is probable that had she been of their rank from the beginning, bred and trained, as well
as born, a Soane, it would not have occurred even to a broken and desperate man to frame so
audacious a plan. But scruples grew weak, and virtue--the virtue of Vauxhall and the masquerades--languished
where it was a question of a woman who a month before had been fair game for undergraduate
gallantry, and who now carried fifty thousand pounds in her hand.

Mr. Pomeroy's next words showed that this aspect of the case was in his mind. 'Damme, she ought
to be glad to marry any one of us!' he said, as he packed the cards and handed them to the
others that each might shuffle them. 'If she is not, the worse for her! We'll put her on bread
and water until she sees reason!'

'D'you think Dunborough knew, Tommy?' said Lord Almeric, grinning at the thought of his friend's
disappointment. 'That she had the money?'

Dunborough's name turned the tutor grave. He shook his head.

'He'll be monstrous mad! Monstrous!' Lord Almeric said with a chuckle; the wine he had drunk
was beginning to affect him. 'He has paid the postboys and we ride. Well, are you ready? Ready
all? Hallo! Who is to draw first?'

'Let's draw for first,' said Mr. Pomeroy. 'All together!'

'All together!'

     'For it's hey, derry down, and it's over the lea.
     And it's out with the fox in the dawning!'

sang my lord in an uncertain voice. And then, 'Lord! I've a d----d deuce! Tommy has it! Tommy's
Pam has it! No, by Gad! Pomeroy, you have won it! Your Queen takes!'

'And I shall take the Queen!' quoth Mr. Pomeroy. Then ceremoniously, 'My first draw, I think?'

'Yes,' said Mr. Thomasson nervously.

'Yes,' said Lord Almeric, gloating with flushed face on the blind backs of the cards as they
lay in a long row before him. 'Draw away!'

'Then here's for a wife and five thousand a year!' cried Pomeroy. 'One, two, three--oh, hang
and sink the cards!' he continued with a violent execration, as he flung down the card he had
drawn. 'Seven's the main! I have no luck! Now, Mr. Parson, get on! Can you do better?'

Mr. Thomasson, a damp flush on his brow, chose his card gingerly, and turned it with trembling
fingers. Mr. Pomeroy greeted it with a savage oath, Lord Almeric with a yell of tipsy laughter.
It was an eight.

'It is bad to be crabbed, but to be crabbed by a smug like you!' Mr. Pomeroy cried churlishly.
Then, 'Go on, man!' he said to his lordship. 'Don't keep us all night.'

Lord Almeric, thus adjured, turned a card with a flourish. It was a King!

'Fal-lal-lal, lal-lal-la!' he sang, rising with a sweep of the arm that brought down two candlesticks.
Then, seizing a glass and filling it from the punch-bowl, 'Here's your health once more, my
lady. And drink her, you envious beggars! Drink her! You shall throw the stocking for us. Lord,
we'll have a right royal wedding! And then--'

'Don't you forget the five thousand,' said Pomeroy sulkily. He kept his seat, his hands thrust
deep into his breeches pockets; he looked the picture of disappointment.

'Not I, dear lad! Not I! Lord, it is as safe as if your banker had it. Just as safe!'

'Umph! She has not taken you yet!' Pomeroy muttered, watching him; and his face relaxed. 'No,
hang me! she has not!' he continued in a tone but half audible. 'And it is even betting she
will not. She might take you drunk, but d--n me if she will take you sober!' And, cheered by
the reflection, he pulled the bowl to him, and, filling a glass, 'Here's to her, my lord,'
he said, raising it to his lips. 'But remember you have only two days.'

'Two days!' my lord cried, reeling slightly; the last glass had been too much for him. 'We'll
be married in two days. See if we are not.'

'The Act notwithstanding?' Mr. Pomeroy said, with a sneer.

'Oh, sink the Act!' his lordship retorted. 'But where's--where's the door? I shall go,' he
continued, gazing vacantly about him, 'go to her at once, and tell her--tell her I shall marry
her! You--you fellows are hiding the door! You are--you are all jealous! Oh, yes! Such a shape
and such eyes! You are jealous, hang you!'

Mr. Pomeroy leaned forward and leered at the tutor. 'Shall we let him go?' he whispered. 'It
will mend somebody's chance. What say you, Parson? You stand next. Make it six thousand instead
of five, and I'll see to it.'

'Let me go to her!' my lord hiccoughed. He was standing, holding by the back of a chair. 'I
tell you--I--where is she? You are jealous! That's what you are! Jealous! She is fond of me--pretty
charmer--and I shall go to her!'

But Mr. Thomasson shook his head; not so much because he shrank from the outrage which the
other contemplated with a grin, as because he now wished Lord Almeric to succeed. He thought
it possible and even likely that the girl, dazzled by his title, would be willing to take the
young sprig of nobility. And the influence of the Doyley family was great.

He shook his head therefore, and Mr. Pomeroy rebuffed, solaced himself with a couple of glasses
of punch. After that, Mr. Thomasson pleaded fatigue as his reason for declining to take a hand
at any game whatever, and my lord continuing to maunder and flourish and stagger, the host
reluctantly suggested bed; and going to the door bawled for Jarvey and his lordship's man.
They came, but were found to be incapable of standing when apart. The tutor and Mr. Pomeroy,
therefore, took my lord by the arms and partly shoved and partly supported him to his room.

There was a second bed in the chamber. 'You had better tumble in there, Parson,' said Mr. Pomeroy.
'What say you? Will't do?'

'Finely,' Tommy answered. 'I am obliged to you.' And when they had jointly loosened his lordship's
cravat, and removed his wig and set the cool jug of small beer within his reach, Mr. Pomeroy
bade the other a curt good-night, and took himself off.

Mr. Thomasson waited until his footsteps ceased to echo in the gallery, and then, he scarcely
knew why, he furtively opened the door and peeped out. All was dark; and save for the regular
tick of the pendulum on the stairs, the house was still. Mr. Thomasson, wondering which way
Julia's room lay, stood listening until a stair creaked; and then, retiring precipitately,
locked his door. Lord Almeric, in the gloom of the green moreen curtains that draped his huge
four-poster, had fallen into a drunken slumber. The shadow of his wig, which Pomeroy had clapped
on the wig-stand by the bed, nodded on the wall, as the draught moved the tails. Mr. Thomasson
shivered, and, removing the candle--as was his prudent habit of nights--to the hearth, muttered
that a goose was walking over his grave, undressed quickly, and jumped into bed.

CHAPTER XXV

LORD ALMERIC'S SUIT

When Julia awoke in the morning, without start or shock, to the dreary consciousness of all
she had lost, she was still under the influence of the despair which had settled on her spirits
overnight, and had run like a dark stain through her troubled dreams. Fatigue of body and lassitude
of mind, the natural consequences of the passion and excitement of her adventure, combined
to deaden her faculties. She rose aching in all her limbs--yet most at heart--and wearily dressed
herself; but neither saw nor heeded the objects round her. The room to which poor puzzled Mrs.
Olney had hastily consigned her looked over a sunny stretch of park, sprinkled with gnarled
thorn-trees that poorly filled the places of the oaks and chestnuts which the gaming-table
had consumed. Still, the outlook pleased the eye, nor was the chamber itself lacking in liveliness.
The panels on the walls, wherein needlework cockatoos and flamingoes, wrought under Queen Anne,
strutted in the care of needlework black-boys, were faded and dull; but the pleasant white
dimity with which the bed was hung relieved and lightened them.

To Julia it was all one. Wrapped in bitter thoughts and reminiscences, her bosom heaving from
time to time with ill-restrained grief, she gave no thought to such things, or even to her
position, until Mrs. Olney appeared and informed her that breakfast awaited her in another room.

Then, 'Can I not take it here?' she asked, shrinking painfully from the prospect of meeting
any one.

'Here?' Mrs. Olney repeated. The housekeeper never closed her mouth, except when she spoke;
for which reason, perhaps, her face faithfully mirrored the weakness of her mind.

'Yes,' said Julia. 'Can I not take it here, if you please? I suppose--we shall have to start
by-and-by?' she added, shivering.

'By-and-by, ma'am?' Mrs. Olney answered. 'Oh, yes.'

'Then I can have it here.'

'Oh, yes, if you please to follow me, ma'am.' And she held the door open.

Julia shrugged her shoulders, and, contesting the matter no further, followed the good woman
along a corridor and through a door which shut off a second and shorter passage. From this
three doors opened, apparently into as many apartments. Mrs. Olney threw one wide and ushered
her into a room damp-smelling, and hung with drab, but of good size and otherwise comfortable.
The windows looked over a neglected Dutch garden, which was so rankly overgrown that the box
hedges scarce rose above the wilderness of parterres. Beyond this, and divided from it by a
deep-sunk fence, a pool fringed with sedges and marsh-weeds carried the eye to an alder thicket
that closed the prospect.

Julia, in her relief on finding that the table was laid for one only, paid no heed to the outlook
or to the bars that crossed the windows, but sank into a chair and mechanically ate and drank.
Apprised after a while that Mrs. Olney had returned and was watching her with fatuous good-nature,
she asked her if she knew at what hour she was to leave.

'To leave?' said the housekeeper, whose almost invariable custom it was to repeat the last
words addressed to her. 'Oh, yes, to leave. Of course.'

'But at what time?' Julia asked, wondering whether the woman was as dull as she seemed.

'Yes, at what time?' Then after a pause and with a phenomenal effort, 'I will go and see--if
you please.'

She returned presently. 'There are no horses,' she said. 'When they are ready the gentleman
will let you know.'

'They have sent for some?'

'Sent for some,' repeated Mrs. Olney, and nodded, but whether in assent or imbecility it was
hard to say.

After that Julia troubled her no more, but rising from her meal had recourse to the window
and her own thoughts. These were in unison with the neglected garden and the sullen pool, which
even the sunshine failed to enliven. Her heart was torn between the sense of Sir George's treachery--which
now benumbed her brain and now awoke it to a fury of resentment--and fond memories of words
and looks and gestures, that shook her very frame and left her sick--love-sick and trembling.
She did not look forward or form plans; nor, in the dull lethargy in which she was for the
most part sunk, was she aware of the passage of time until Mrs. Olney came in with mouth and
eyes a little wider than usual, and announced that the gentleman was coming up.

Julia supposed that the woman referred to Mr. Thomasson; and, recalled to the necessity of
returning to Marlborough, she gave a reluctant permission. Great was her astonishment when,
a moment later, not the tutor, but Lord Almeric, fanning himself with a laced handkerchief
and carrying his little French hat under his arm, appeared on the threshold, and entered simpering
and bowing. He was extravagantly dressed in a mixed silk coat, pink satin waistcoat, and a
mushroom stock, with breeches of silver net and white silk stockings; and had a large pearl
pin thrust through his wig. Unhappily, his splendour, designed to captivate the porter's daughter,
only served to exhibit more plainly the nerveless hand and sickly cheeks which he owed to last
night's debauch.

Apparently he was aware of this, for his first words were, 'Oh, Lord! What a twitter I am in!
I vow and protest, ma'am, I don't know where you get your roses of a morning. But I wish you
would give me the secret.'

'Sir!' she said, interrupting him, surprise in her face. 'Or'--with a momentary flush of confusion--'I
should say, my lord, surely there must be some mistake here.'

'None, I dare swear,' Lord Almeric answered, bowing gallantly. 'But I am in such a twitter'--he
dropped his hat and picked it up again--'I hardly know what I am saying. To be sure, I was
devilish cut last night! I hope nothing was said to--to--oh, Lord! I mean I hope you were not
much incommoded by the night air, ma'am.'

'The night air has not hurt me, I thank you,' said Julia, who did not take the trouble to hide
her impatience.

However, my lord, nothing daunted, expressed himself monstrously glad to hear it; monstrously
glad. And after looking about him and humming and hawing, 'Won't you sit?' he said, with a
killing glance.

'I am leaving immediately,' Julia answered, and declined with coldness the chair which he pushed
forward. At another time his foppish dress might have moved her to smiles, or his feebleness
and vapid oaths to pity. This morning she needed her pity for herself, and was in no smiling
mood. Her world had crashed around her; she would sit and weep among the ruins, and this butterfly
insect flitted between. After a moment, as he did not speak, 'I will not detain your lordship,'
she continued, curtseying frigidly.

'Cruel beauty!' my lord answered, dropping his hat and clasping his hands in an attitude. And
then, to her astonishment, 'Look, ma'am,' he cried with animation, 'look, I beseech you, on
the least worthy of your admirers and deign to listen to him. Listen to him while--and don't,
oh, I say, don't stare at me like that,' he continued hurriedly, plaintiveness suddenly taking
the place of grandiloquence. 'I vow and protest I am in earnest.'

'Then you must be mad!' Julia cried in great wrath. 'You can have no other excuse, sir, for
talking to me like that!'

'Excuse!' he cried rapturously. 'Your eyes are my excuse, your lips, your shape! Whom would
they not madden, ma'am? Whom would they not charm--insanitate--intoxicate? What man of sensibility,
seeing them at an immeasurable distance, would not hasten to lay his homage at the feet of
so divine, so perfect a creature, whom even to see is to taste of bliss! Deign, madam, to--Oh,
I say, you don't mean to say you are really of--offended?' Lord Almeric stuttered in amazement,
again falling lamentably from the standard of address which he had conned while his man was
shaving him. 'You--you--look here--'

'You must be mad!' Julia cried, her eyes flashing lightning on the unhappy beau. 'If you do
not leave me, I will call for some one to put you out! How dare you insult me? If there were
a bell I could reach--'

Lord Almeric stared in the utmost perplexity; and fallen from his high horse, alighted on a
kind of dignity. 'Madam,' he said with a little bow and a strut, ''tis the first time an offer
of marriage from one of my family has been called an insult! And I don't understand it. Hang
me! If we have married fools, we have married high!'

It was Julia's turn to be overwhelmed with confusion. Having nothing less in her mind than
marriage, and least of all an offer of marriage from such a person, she had set down all he
had said to impudence and her unguarded situation. Apprised of his meaning, she experienced
a degree of shame, and muttered that she had not understood; she craved his pardon.

'Beauty asks and beauty has!' Lord Almeric answered, bowing and kissing the tips of his fingers,
his self-esteem perfectly restored.

Julia frowned. 'You cannot be in earnest,' she said.

'Never more in earnest in my life!' he replied. 'Say the word--say you'll have me,' he continued,
pressing his little hat to his breast and gazing over it with melting looks, 'most adorable
of your sex, and I'll call up Pomeroy, I'll call up Tommy, the old woman, too, if you choose,
and tell 'em, tell 'em all.'

'I must be dreaming,' Julia murmured, gazing at him in a kind of fascination.

'Then if to dream is to assent, dream on, fair love!' his lordship spouted with a grand air.
And then, 'Hang it! that's--that's rather clever of me,' he continued. 'And I mean it too!
Oh, depend upon it, there's nothing that a man won't think of when he's in love! And I am fallen
confoundedly in love with--with you, ma'am.'

'But very suddenly,' Julia replied. She was beginning to recover from her amazement.

'You don't think that I am sincere?' he protested plaintively. 'You doubt me! Then--'he advanced
a pace towards her with hat and arms extended, 'let the eloquence of a--a feeling heart plead
for me; a heart, too--yes, too sensible of your charms, and--and your many merits, ma'am! Yes,
most adorable of your sex. But there,' he added, breaking off abruptly, 'I said that before,
didn't I? Yes. Lord! what a memory I have got! I am all of a twitter. I was so cut last night,
I don't know what I am saying.'

'That I believe,' Julia said with chilling severity.

'Eh, but--but you do believe I am in earnest?' he cried anxiously. 'Shall I kneel to you? Shall
I call up the servants and tell them? Shall I swear that I mean honourably? Lord! I am no Mr.
Thornhill! I'll make it as public as you like,' he continued eagerly. 'I'll send for a bishop--'

'Spare me the bishop,' Julia rejoined with a faint smile, 'and any farther appeals. They come,
I am convinced, my lord, rather from your head than your heart.'

'Oh, Lord, no!' he cried.

'Oh, Lord, yes,' she answered with a spice of her old archness. 'I may have a tolerable opinion
of my own attractions--women commonly have, it is said. But I am not so foolish, my lord, as
to suppose that on the three or four occasions on which I have seen you I can have gained your
heart. To what I am to attribute your sudden--shall I call it whim or fancy--' Julia continued
with a faint blush, 'I do not know. I am willing to suppose that you do not mean to insult me.'

Lord Almeric denied it with a woeful face.

'Or to deceive me. I am willing to suppose,' she repeated, stopping him by a gesture as he
tried to speak, 'that you are in earnest for the time, my lord, in desiring to make me your
wife, strange and sudden as the desire appears. It is a great honour, but it is one which I
must as earnestly and positively decline.'

'Why?' he cried, gaping, and then, 'O 'swounds, ma'am, you don't mean it?' he continued piteously.
'Not have me? Not have me? And why?'

'Because,' she said modestly, 'I do not love you, my lord.'

'Oh, but--but when we are married,' he answered eagerly, rallying his scattered forces, 'when
we are one, sweet maid--'

'That time will never come,' she replied cruelly. And then gloom overspreading her face, 'I
shall never marry, my lord. If it be any consolation to you, no one shall be preferred to you.'

'Oh, but, damme, the desert air and all that!' Lord Almeric cried, fanning himself violently
with his hat. 'I--oh, you mustn't talk like that, you know. Lord! you might be some queer old
put of a dowager!' And then, with a burst of sincere feeling, for his little heart was inflamed
by her beauty, and his manhood--or such of it as had survived the lessons of Vauxhall, and
Mr. Thomasson--rose in arms at sight of her trouble, 'See here, child,' he said in his natural
voice, 'say yes, and I'll swear I'll be kind to you! Sink me if I am not! And, mind you, you'll
be my lady. You'll to Ranelagh and the masquerades with the best. You shall have your box at
the opera and the King's House; you shall have your frolic in the pit when you please, and
your own money for loo and brag, and keep your own woman and have her as ugly as the bearded
lady, for what I care--I want nobody's lips but yours, sweet, if you'll be kind. And, so help
me, I'll stop at one bottle, my lady, and play as small as a Churchwarden's club! And, Lord,
I don't see why we should not be as happy together as James and Betty!'

She shook her head; but kindly, with tears in her eyes and a trembling lip. She was thinking
of another who might have given her all this, or as much as was to her taste; one with whom
she had looked to be as happy as any James and Betty. 'It is impossible, my lord,' she said.

'Honest Abraham?' he cried, very downcast.

'Oh, yes, yes!'

'S'help me, you are melting!'

'No, no!' she cried, 'it is not--it is not that! It is impossible, I tell you. You don't know
what you ask,' she continued, struggling with the emotion that almost mastered her.

'But, curse me, I know what I want!' he answered gloomily. 'You may go farther and fare worse!
Lord, I swear you may. I'd be kind to you, and it is not everybody would be that!'

She had turned from him that he might not see her face, and she did not answer. He waited a
moment, twiddling his hat; his face was overcast, his mood hung between spite and pity. At
last, 'Well, 'tisn't my fault,' he said; and then relenting again, 'But there, I know what
women are--vapours one day, kissing the next. I'll try again, my lady. I am not proud.'

She flung him a gesture that meant assent, dissent, dismissal, as he pleased to interpret it.
He took it to mean the first, and muttering, 'Well, well, have it your own way. I'll go for
this time. But hang all prudes, say I,' he withdrew reluctantly, and slowly closed the door on her.

As soon as he was gone the tempest, which Julia's pride had enabled her to stern for a time,
broke forth in a passion of tears and sobs, and, throwing herself on the shabby window-seat,
she gave free vent to her grief. The happy future which the little bean had dangled before
her eyes, absurdly as he had fashioned and bedecked it, reminded her all too sharply of that
which she had promised herself with one, in whose affections she had fancied herself secure,
despite the attacks of the prettiest Abigail in the world. How fondly had her fancy depicted
life with him! With what happy blushes, what joyful tremors! And now? What wonder that at the
thought a fresh burst of grief convulsed her frame, or that she presently passed from the extremity
of grief to the extremity of rage, and, realising anew Sir George's heartless desertion and
more cruel perfidy, rubbed her tear-stained face in the dusty chintz of the window-seat--that
had known so many childish sorrows--and there choked the fierce, hysterical words that rose
to her lips?

Or what wonder that her next thought was revenge? She sat up, with her back to the window and
the unkempt garden, whence the light stole through the disordered masses of her hair; her face
to the empty room. Revenge? Yes, she could punish him; she could take this money from him,
she could pursue him with a woman's unrelenting spite, she could hound him from the country,
she could have all but his life. But none of these things would restore her maiden pride; would
remove from her the stain of his false love, or rebut the insolent taunt of the eyes to which
she had bowed herself captive. If she could so beat him with his own weapons that he should
doubt his conquest, doubt her love; if she could effect that, there was no method she would
not adopt, no way she would not take.

Pique in a woman's mind, even in the mind of the best, finds a rival the tool readiest to hand.
A wave of crimson swept across Julia's pale face, and she stood up on her feet. Lady Almeric!
Lady Almeric Doyley! Here was a revenge, the fittest of revenges, ready to her hand, if she
could bring herself to take it. What if, in the same hour in which he heard that his plan had
gone amiss, he heard that she was to marry another? and such another that marry almost whom
he might she would take precedence of his wife. That last was a small thought, a petty thought,
worthy of a smaller mind than Julia's; but she was a woman, and passionate, and the charms
of such a revenge in the general, came home to her. It would show him that others valued what
he had cast away; it would convince him--she hoped, him I yet, alas! she doubted--that she
had taken his suit as lightly as he had meant it. It would give her a home, a place, a settled
position in the world.

She followed it no farther; perhaps because she would act on impulse rather than on reason,
blindly rather than on foresight. In haste, with trembling fingers, she set a chair below the
broken, frayed end of a bell-rope that hung on the wall. Reaching it, as if she feared her
resolution might fail before the event, she pulled and pulled frantically, until hurrying footsteps
came along the passage, and Mrs. Olney with a foolish face of alarm entered the room.

'Fetch--tell the gentleman to come back,' Julia cried, breathing quickly.

'To come back?'

'Yes! The gentleman who was here now.'

'Oh, yes, the gentleman,' Mrs. Olney murmured. 'Your ladyship wishes him?'

Julia's very brow turned crimson; but her resolution held. 'Yes, I wish to see him,' she said
imperiously. 'Tell him to come to me!'

She stood erect, panting and defiant, her eyes on the door while the woman went to do her bidding--waited
erect, refusing to think, her face set hard, until far down the outer passage--Mrs. Olney had
left the door open--the sound of shuffling feet and a shrill prattle of words heralded Lord
Almeric's return. Presently he came tripping in with a smirk and a bow, the inevitable little
hat under his arm. Before he had recovered the breath the ascent of the stairs had cost him,
he was in an attitude that made the best of his white silk stockings.

'See at your feet the most obedient of your slaves, ma'am!' he cried. 'To hear was to obey,
to obey was to fly! If it's Pitt's diamond you need, or Lady Mary's soap-box, or a new conundrum,
or--hang it all! I cannot think of anything else, but command me! I'll forth and get it, stap
me if I won't!'

'My lord, it is nothing of that kind,' Julia answered, her voice steady, though her cheeks burned.

'Eh? what? It's not!' he babbled. 'Then what is it? Command me, whatever it is.'

'I believe, my lord,' she said, smiling faintly, 'that a woman is always privileged to change
her mind--once.'

My lord stared. Then, gathering her meaning as much from her heightened colour as from her
words, 'What!' he screamed. 'Eh? O Lord! Do you mean that you will have me? Eh? Have you sent
for me for that? Do you really mean that?' And he fumbled for his spy-glass that he might see
her face more clearly.

'I mean,' Julia began; and then, more firmly, 'Yes, I do mean that,' she said, 'if you are
of the same mind, my lord, as you were half an hour ago.'

'Crikey, but I am!' Lord Almeric cried, fairly skipping in his joy. 'By jingo! I am! Here's
to you, my lady! Here's to you, ducky! Oh, Lord! but I was fit to kill myself five minutes
ago, and those fellows would have done naught but roast me. And now I am in the seventh heaven.
Ho! ho!' he continued, with a comical pirouette of triumph, 'he laughs best who laughs last.
But there, you are not afraid of me, pretty? You'll let me buss you?'

But Julia, with a face grown suddenly white, shrank back and held out her hand.

'Sakes! but to seal the bargain, child,' he remonstrated, trying to get near her.

She forced a faint smile, and, still retreating, gave him her hand to kiss. 'Seal it on that,'
she said graciously. Then, 'Your lordship will pardon me, I am sure. I am not very well, and--and
yesterday has shaken me. Will you be so good as to leave me now, until to-morrow?'

'To-morrow!' he cried. 'To-morrow! Why, it is an age! An eternity!'

But she was determined to have until to-morrow--God knows why. And, with a little firmness,
she persuaded him, and he went.

CHAPTER XXVI

BOON COMPANIONS

Lord Almeric flew down the stairs on the wings of triumph, rehearsing at each corner the words
in which he would announce his conquest. He found his host and the tutor sitting together in
the parlour, in the middle of a game of shilling hazard; which they were playing, the former
with as much enjoyment and the latter with as much good-humour as consisted with the fact that
Mr. Pomeroy was losing, and Mr. Thomasson played against his will. The weather had changed
for the worse since morning. The sky was leaden, the trees were dripping, the rain hung in
rows of drops along the rails that flanked the avenue. Mr. Pomeroy cursed the damp hole he
owned and sighed for town and the Cocoa Tree. The tutor wished he were quit of the company--and
his debts. And both were so far from suspecting what had happened upstairs, though the tutor
had his hopes, that Mr. Pomeroy was offering three to one against his friend, when Lord Almeric
danced in upon them.

'Give me joy!' he cried breathless. 'D'you hear, Pom? She'll take me, and I have bussed her!
March could not have done it quicker! She's mine, and the pool! She is mine! Give me joy!'

Mr. Thomasson lost not a minute in rising and shaking him by the hand. 'My dear lord,' he said,
in a voice rendered unusually rich and mellow by the prospect of five thousand pounds, 'you
make me infinitely happy. You do indeed! I give your lordship joy! I assure you that it will
ever be a matter of the deepest satisfaction to me that I was the cause under Providence of
her presence here! A fine woman, my lord, and a--a commensurate fortune!'

'A fine woman? Gad! you'd say so if you had held her in your arms!' cried my lord, strutting
and lying.

'I am sure,' Mr. Thomasson hastened to say, 'your lordship is every way to be congratulated.'

'Gad! you'd say so, Tommy!' the other repeated with a wink. He was in the seventh heaven of
delight.

So far all went swimmingly, neither of them remarking that Mr. Pomeroy kept silence. But at
this point the tutor, whose temper it was to be uneasy unless all were on his side, happened
to turn, saw that he kept his seat, and was struck with the blackness of his look. Anxious
to smooth over any unpleasantness, and to recall him to the requirements of the occasion, 'Come,
Mr. Pomeroy,' he cried jestingly, 'shall we drink her ladyship, or is it too early in the day?'

Bully Pomeroy thrust his hands deep into his breeches pockets and did not budge. ''Twill be
time to drink her when the ring is on!' he said, with an ugly sneer.

'Oh, I vow and protest that's ungenteel,' my lord complained. 'I vow and protest it is!' he
repeated querulously. 'See here, Pom, if you had won her I'd not treat you like this!'

'Your lordship has not won her yet,' was the churlish answer.

'But she has said it, I tell you. She said she'd have me.'

'She won't be the first woman has altered her mind, nor the last,' Mr. Pomeroy retorted with
an oath. 'You may be amazing sure of that, my lord.' And muttering something about a woman
and a fool being near akin, he spurned a dog out of his way, overset a chair, and strode cursing
from the room.

Lord Almeric stared after him, his face a queer mixture of vanity and dismay. At last, 'Strikes
me, Tommy, he's uncommon hard hit,' he said, with a simper. 'He must have made surprising sure
of her. Ah!' he continued with a chuckle, as he passed his hand delicately over his well-curled
wig, and glanced at a narrow black-framed mirror that stood between the windows. 'He is a bit
too old for the women, is Pom. They run to something lighter in hand. Besides, there's a--a
way with the pretty creatures, if you take me, and Pom has not got it. Now I flatter myself
I have, Tommy, and Julia--it is a sweet name, Julia, don't you think?--Julia is of that way
of thinking. Lord! I know women,' his lordship continued, beaming the happier the longer he
talked. 'It is not what a man has, or what he has done, or even his taste in a coat or a wig--though,
mind you, a French friseur does a deal to help men to bonnes fortunes--but it is a sort of
a way one has. The silly creatures cannot stand against it.'

Mr. Thomasson hastened to agree, and to vouch her future ladyship's flame in proof of my lord's
prowess. But the tutor was a timid man; and the more perfect the contentment with which he
viewed the turn things had taken, and the more nearly within his grasp seemed his five thousand,
the graver was the misgiving with which he regarded Mr. Pomeroy's attitude. He had no notion
what shape that gentleman's hostility might take, nor how far his truculence might aspire.
But he guessed that Lord Almeric's victory had convinced the elder man that his task would
have been easy had the cards favoured him; and when a little later in the day he saw Pomeroy
walking in the park in the drenching rain, his hands thrust deep into the pockets of his wrap-rascal
and his chin bent on his breast, he trembled. He knew that when men of Mr. Pomeroy's class
take to thinking, some one is likely to lose.

At dinner the tutor's fears were temporarily lulled. Mr. Pomeroy put in a sulky appearance,
but his gloom, it was presently manifest, was due to the burden of an apology; which, being
lamely offered and readily accepted, he relapsed into his ordinary brusque and reckless mood,
swearing that they would have the lady down and drink her, or if that were not pleasing, 'Damme,
we'll drink her any way!' he continued. 'I was a toad this morning. No offence meant, my lord.
Lover's license, you know. You can afford to be generous, having won the pool.'

'And the maid,' my lord said with a simper. 'Burn me! you are a good fellow, Pom. Give me your
hand. You shall see her after dinner. She said to-morrow; but, hang me! I'll to her this evening.'

Mr. Pomeroy expressed himself properly gratified, adding demurely that he would play no tricks.

'No, hang me! no tricks!' my lord cried somewhat alarmed. 'Not that--'

'Not that I am likely to displace your lordship, her affections once gained,' said Mr. Pomeroy.

He lowered his face to hide a smile of bitter derision, but he might have spared his pains;
for Lord Almeric, never very wise, was blinded by vanity. 'No, I should think not,' he said,
with a conceit which came near to deserving the other's contempt. 'I should think not, Tommy.
Give me twenty minutes of a start, as Jack Wilkes says, and you may follow as you please. I
rather fancy I brought down the bird at the first shot?'

'Certainly, my lord.'

'I did, didn't I?'

'Most certainly, your lordship did,' repeated the obsequious tutor; who, basking in the smiles
of his host's good-humour, began to think that things would run smoothly after all. So the
lady was toasted, and toasted again. Nay, so great was Mr. Pomeroy's complaisance and so easy
his mood, he must needs have up three or four bottles of Brooks and Hellier that had lain in
the cellar half a century--the last of a batch--and give her a third time in bumpers and no
heel-taps.

But that opened Mr. Thomasson's eyes. He saw that Pomeroy had reverted to his idea of the night
before, and was bent on making the young fop drunk, and exposing him in that state to his mistress;
perhaps had the notion of pushing him on some rudeness that, unless she proved very compliant
indeed, must ruin him for ever with her. Three was their dinner hour; it was not yet four,
yet already the young lord was flushed and a little flustered, talked fast, swore at Jarvey,
and bragged of the girl lightly and without reserve. By six o'clock, if something were not
done, he would be unmanageable.

The tutor stood in no little awe of his host. He had tremors down his back when he thought
of his violence; nor was this dogged persistence in a design, as cruel as it was cunning, calculated
to lessen the feeling. But he had five thousand pounds at stake, a fortune on which he had
been pluming himself since noon; it was no time for hesitation. They were dining in the hall
at the table at which they had played cards the night before, Jarvey and Lord Almeric's servant
attending them. Between the table and the staircase was a screen. The next time Lord Almeric's
glass was filled, the tutor, in reaching something, upset the glass and its contents over his
own breeches, and amid the laughter of the other two retired behind the screen to be wiped.
There he slipped a crown into the servant's hand, and whispered him to keep his master sober
and he should have another.

Mr. Pomeroy saw nothing and heard nothing, and for a time suspected nothing. The servant was
a crafty fellow, a London rascal, deft at whipping away full bottles. He was an age finding
a clean glass, and slow in drawing the next cork. He filled the host's bumper, and Mr. Thomasson's,
and had but half a glass for his master. The next bottle he impudently pronounced corked, and
when Pomeroy cursed him for a liar, brought him some in an unwashed glass that had been used
for Bordeaux. The wine was condemned, and went out; and though Pomeroy, with unflagging spirits,
roared to Jarvey to open the other bottles, the butler had got the office, and was slow to
bring them. The cheese came and went, and left Lord Almeric cooler than it found him. The tutor
was overjoyed at the success of his tactics.

But when the board was cleared, and the bottles were set on, and the men withdrawn, Bully Pomeroy
began to push what remained of the Brooks and Hellier after a fashion that boded an early defeat
to the tutor's precautions. It was in vain Thomasson clung to the bottle and sometimes returned
it Hertfordshire fashion. The only result was that Mr. Pomeroy smelt a rat, gave Lord Almeric
a back-hander, and sent the bottle on again, with a grin that told the tutor he was understood.

After that Mr. Thomasson had the choice between sitting still and taking his own part. It was
neck or nothing. Lord Almeric was already hiccoughing and would soon be talking thickly. The
next time the bottle came round, the tutor retained it, and when Lord Almeric reached, for
it, 'No, my lord,' he said, laughing; 'Venus first and Bacchus afterwards. Your lordship has
to wait on the lady. When you come down, with Mr. Pomeroy's leave, we'll crack another bottle.'

My lord withdrew his hand more readily than the other had hoped. 'Right, Tommy,' he said. 'I'll
wait till I come down. What's that song, "Rich the treasure, sweet the pleasure, sweet is pleasure
after pain"? Oh, no, damme! I don't mean that,' he continued. 'No. How does it go?'

Mr. Pomeroy thrust the bottle into his hands, looking daggers the while at the tutor. 'Take
another glass,' he cried boisterously. ''Swounds, the girl will like you the better for it.'

'D'ye think so, Pom? Honest?'

'Sure of it. 'Twill give you spirit, my lord.'

'So it will.'

'At her and kiss her! Are you going to be governed all your life by that whey-faced old Methodist?
Or be your own man? Tell me that.'

'My lord, there's fifty thousand pounds upon it,' Thomasson said, his face red. And he pushed
back the bottle. The setting sun, peeping a moment through the rain clouds and the low-browed
lattice windows, flung an angry yellow light on the board and the three flushed faces round
it. 'Fifty thousand pounds,' repeated Mr. Thomasson firmly.

'Damme! so there is!' my lord answered, settling his chin in his cravat and dusting the crumbs
from his breeches. 'I'll take no more. So there!'

'I thought your lordship was a good-humoured man and no flincher,' Mr. Pomeroy retorted with
a sneer.

'Oh, I vow and protest--if you put it that way,' the weakling answered, once more extending
his hand, the fingers of which closed lovingly round the bottle, 'I cannot refuse. Positively
I cannot.'

'Fifty thousand pounds!' the tutor said, shrugging his shoulders.

Lord Almeric drew back his hand.

'Why, she'll like you the better!' Pomeroy cried fiercely, as he thrust the bottle to him again.
'D'you think a woman doesn't love an easy husband? And wouldn't rather have a good fellow than
a thread-paper?'

'Mr. Pomeroy! Mr. Pomeroy!' the tutor said. Such words used of a lord shocked him.

'A milksop! A thing of curds and whey!'

'After marriage, yes,' the tutor muttered, pitching his voice cleverly in Lord Almeric's ear,
and winking as he leant towards him. 'But your lordship has a great stake in't; and to abstain
one night--why, sure, my lord, it's a small thing to do for a fine woman and a fortune.'

'Hang me! so it is!' Lord Almeric answered. 'You are a good friend to me, Tommy.' And he flung
his glass crashing into the fireplace. 'No, Pom; you'd bubble me. You want the pretty charmer
yourself. But I'll be hanged if you shall have her. I'll walk, my boy, I'll walk, and at six
I'll go to her, and take you too. And mind you, no tricks, Pom. Lord! I know women as well
as I know my own head in the glass. You don't bite me.'

Pomeroy, with a face like thunder, did not answer; and Lord Almeric, walking a little unsteadily,
went to the door, and a moment later became visible through one of the windows. He stood awhile,
his back towards them, now sniffing the evening air, and now, with due regard to his mixed
silk coat, taking a pinch of snuff.

Mr. Thomasson, his heart beating, wished he had had the courage to go with him. But this would
have been to break with his host beyond mending; and it was now too late. He was still seeking
a propitiatory phrase with which to break the oppressive silence, when Pomeroy anticipated him.

'You think yourself vastly clever, Mr. Tutor,' he growled, his voice hoarse with anger. 'You
think a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush, I see.'

'Ten in the bush,' Mr. Thomasson answered, affecting an easiness he did not feel. 'Ten fives
are fifty.'

'Two in the bush I said, and two in the bush I mean,' the other retorted, his voice still low.
'Take it or leave it,' he continued, with a muttered oath and a swift side glance at the windows,
through which Lord Almeric was still visible, walking slowly to and fro, and often standing.
'If you want it firm, I'll put it in black and white. Ten thousand, or security, the day after
we come from church.'

The tutor was silent a moment. Then, 'It is too far in the bush,' he answered in a low voice.
'I am willing enough to serve you, Mr. Pomeroy. I assure you, my dear sir, I desire nothing
better. But if--if his lordship were dismissed, you'd be as far off as ever. And I should lose
my bird in hand.'

'She took him. Why should she not take me?'

'He has--no offence--a title, Mr. Pomeroy.'

'And is a fool.'

Mr. Thomasson raised his hands in deprecation. Such a saying, spoken of a lord, really offended
him. But his words went to another point. 'Besides, it's a marriage-brocage contract, and void,'
he muttered. 'Void in law.'

'You don't trust me?'

''Twould be of no use, Mr. Pomeroy,' the tutor answered, gently shaking his head, and avoiding
the issue presented to him. 'You could not persuade her. She was in such a humour to-day, my
lord had special advantages. Break it off between them, and she'll come to herself. And she
is wilful--Lord! you don't know her! Petruchio could not tame her.'

'I know nothing about Petruchio,' Mr. Pomeroy answered grimly. 'Nor who the gentleman was.
But I've ways of my own. You can leave that to me.'

But Mr. Thomasson, who had only parleyed out of compliance, took fright at that, and rose from
the table, shaking his head.

'You won't do it?' Mr. Pomeroy said.

The tutor shook his head again, with a sickly smile. ''Tis too far in the bush,' he said.

'Ten thousand,' Mr. Pomeroy persisted, his eyes on the other's face. 'Man,' he continued forcibly,
'Do you think you will ever have such a chance again? Ten thousand! Why, 'tis eight hundred
a year. 'Tis a gentleman's fortune.'

For a moment Mr. Thomasson did waver. Then he put the temptation from him, and shook his head.
'You must pardon me, Mr. Pomeroy,' he said. 'I cannot do it.'

'Will not!' Pomeroy cried harshly. 'Will not!' And would have said more, but at that moment
Jarvey entered behind him.

'Please, your honour,' the man said, 'the lady would see my lord.'

'Oh!' Pomeroy answered coarsely, 'she is impatient, is she? Devil take her for me! And him
too!' And he sat sulkily in his place.

But the interruption suited Mr. Thomasson perfectly. He went to the outer door, and, opening
it, called Lord Almeric, who, hearing what was afoot, hurried in.

'Sent for me!' he cried, pressing his hat to his breast. 'Dear creature!' and he kissed his
fingers to the gallery. 'Positively she is the daintiest, sweetest morsel ever wore a petticoat!
I vow and protest I am in love with her! It were brutal not to be, and she so fond! I'll to
her at once! Tell her I fly! I stay for a dash of bergamot, and I am with her!'

'I thought that you were going to take us with you,' said Mr. Pomeroy, watching him sourly.

'I will! 'Pon honour, I will!' replied the delighted beau. 'But she will soon find a way to
dismiss you, the cunning baggage! and then, "Sweet is pleasure after pain." Ha! Ha! I have
it aright this time. Sweet is Plea--oh! the doting rascal! But let us to her! I vow, if she
is not civil to you, I'll--I'll be cold to her!'

CHAPTER XXVII

MR. FISHWICK'S DISCOVERY

We left Sir George Soane and his companions stranded in the little alehouse at Bathford, waiting
through the small hours of the night for a conveyance to carry them forward to Bristol. Soap
and water, a good meal, and a brief dog's sleep, in which Soane had no share--he spent the
night walking up and down--and from which Mr. Fishwick was continually starting with cries
and moanings, did something to put them in better plight, if in no better temper. When the
dawn came, and with it the chaise-and-four for which they had sent to Bath, they issued forth
haggard and unshaven, but resolute; and long before the shops in Bristol had begun to look
for custom, the three, with Sir George's servant, descended before the old Bush Inn, near the
Docks.

The attorney held strongly the opinion that they should not waste a second before seeking the
persons whom Mr. Dunborough had employed; the least delay, he urged, and the men might be gone
into hiding. But on this a wrangle took place, in the empty street before the half-roused inn;
with a milk-girl and a couple of drunken sailors for witnesses. Mr. Dunborough, who was of
the party will-he, nill-he, and asked nothing better than to take out in churlishness the pressure
put upon him, stood firmly to it, he would take no more than one person to the men. He would
take Sir George, if he pleased, but he would take no one else.

'I'll have no lawyer to make evidence!' he cried boastfully. 'And I'll take no one but on terms.
I'll have no Jemmy Twitcher with me. That's flat.'

Mr. Fishwick in a great rage was for insisting; but Sir George stopped him. 'On what terms?'
he asked the other.

'If the girl be unharmed, we go unharmed. One and all!' Mr. Dunborough answered. 'Damme!' he
continued with a great show of bravado, 'do you think I am going to peach on 'em? Not I. There's
the offer, take it or leave it.'

Sir George might have broken down his opposition by the same arguments addressed to his safety
which had brought him so far. But time was everything, and Soane was on fire to know the best
or worst. 'Agreed!' he cried. 'Lead the way, sir! And do you, Mr. Fishwick, await me here.'

'We must have time,' Mr. Dunborough grumbled, hesitating, and looking askance at the attorney--he
hated him. 'I can't answer for an hour or two. I know a place, and I know another place, and
there is another place. And they may be at one or another, or the other. D'you see?'

'I see that it is your business,' Sir George answered with a glance, before which the other's
eyes fell. 'Wait until noon, Mr. Fishwick. If we have not returned at that hour, be good enough
to swear an information against this gentleman, and set the constables to work.'

Mr. Dunborough muttered that it lay on Sir George's head if ill came of it; but that said,
swung sulkily on his heel. Mr. Fishwick, when the two were some way down the street, ran after
Soane, and asked in a whisper if his pistols were primed; when he returned satisfied on that
point, the servant, whom he had left at the door of the inn, had vanished. The lawyer made
a shrewd guess that he would have an eye to his master's safety, and retired into the house
with less misgiving.

He got his breakfast early, and afterwards dozed awhile, resting his aching bones in a corner
of the coffee-room. It was nine and after, and the tide of life was roaring through the channels
of the city when he roused himself, and to divert his suspense and fend off his growing stiffness
went out to look about him. All was new to him, but he soon wearied of the main streets, where
huge drays laden with puncheons of rum and bales of tobacco threatened to crush him, and tarry
seamen, their whiskers hanging in ringlets, jostled him at every crossing. Turning aside into
a quiet court he stood to stare at a humble wedding which was leaving a church. He watched
the party out of sight, and then, the church-door standing open, he took the fancy to stroll
into the building. He looked about him at the maze of dusty green-cushioned pews with little
alleys winding hither and thither among them; at the great three-decker with its huge sounding-board;
at the royal escutcheon, and the faded tables of the law, and was about to leave as aimlessly
as he had entered, when he espied the open vestry door. Popping in his head, his eye fell on
a folio bound in sheepskin, that lay open on a chest, a pen and ink beside it.

The attorney was in that state of fatigue of body and languor of mind in which the least trifle
amuses. He tip-toed in, his hat in his hand, and licking his lips as he thought of the law-cases
that lay enshrined between those covers, he perused a couple of entries with a kind of professional
enthusiasm. He was beginning a third, which, being by a different hand, was a little hard to
decipher, when a black gown that hung on a hook over against him swung noiselessly outward
from the wall, and a little old man emerged from the doorway which it masked.

The lawyer, who was stooping over the register, raised himself guiltily. 'Hallo!' he said,
to cover his confusion.

'Hallo!' the old man answered with a wintry smile. 'A shilling, if you please.' And he held
out his hand.

'Oh!' said Mr. Fishwick, much chap-fallen, 'I was only just--looking out of curiosity.'

'It is a shilling to look,' the newcomer retorted with a chuckle. 'Only one year, I think?
Just so, anno domini seventeen hundred and sixty-seven. A shilling, if you please.'

Mr. Fishwick hesitated, but in the end professional pride swayed him, he drew out the coin,
and grudgingly handed it over. 'Well,' he said, 'it is a shilling for nothing. But, I suppose,
as you have caught me, I must pay.'

'I've caught a many that way,' the old fellow answered as he pouched the shilling. 'But there,
I do a lot of work upon them. There is not a better register kept anywhere than that, nor a
parish clerk that knows more about his register than I do, though I say it that should not.
It is clear and clean from old Henry Eighth, with never a break except at the time of the siege,
and, by the way, there is an entry about that that you could see for another shilling. No?
Well, if you would like to see a year for nothing--No? Now, I know a lad, an attorney's clerk
here, name of Chatterton, would give his ears for the offer. Perhaps your name is Smith?' the
old fellow continued, looking curiously at Mr. Fishwick. 'If it is, you may like to know that
the name of Smith is in the register of burials just three hundred-and eighty-three times--was
last Friday! Oh, it is not Smith? Well, if it is Brown, it is there two hundred and seventy
times--and one over!'

'That is an odd thought of yours,' said the lawyer, staring at the conceit.

'So many have said,' the old man chuckled. 'But it is not Brown? Jones, perhaps? That comes
two hundred and--Oh, it is not Jones?'

'It is a name you won't be likely to have once, let alone four hundred times!' the lawyer answered,
with a little pride--heaven knows why.

'What may it be, then?' the clerk asked, fairly put on his mettle. And he drew out a pair of
glasses, and settling them on his forehead looked fixedly at his companion.

'Fishwick.'

'Fishwick! Fishwick? Well, it is not a common name, and I cannot speak to it at this moment.
But if it is here, I'll wager I'll find it for you. D'you see, I have them here in alphabet
order,' he continued, bustling with an important air to a cupboard in the wall, whence he produced
a thick folio bound in roughened calf. 'Ay, here's Fishwick, in the burial book, do you see,
volume two, page seventeen, anno domini 1750, seventeen years gone, that is. Will you see it?
'Twill be only a shilling. There's many pays out of curiosity to see their names.'

Mr. Fishwick shook his head.

'Dods! man, you shall!' the old clerk cried generously; and turned the pages. 'You shall see
it for what you have paid. Here you are. "Fourteenth of September, William Fishwick, aged eighty-one,
barber, West Quay, died the eleventh of the month." No, man, you are looking too low. Higher
on the page! Here 'tis, do you see? Eh--what is it? What's the matter with you?'

'Nothing,' Mr. Fishwick muttered. But he continued to stare at the page with a face struck
suddenly sallow, while the hand that rested on the corner of the book shook as with the ague.

'Nothing?' the old man said, staring suspiciously at him. 'I do believe it is something. I
do believe it is money. Well, it is five shillings to extract. So there!'

That seemed to change Mr. Fishwick's view. 'It might be money,' he confessed, still speaking
thickly, and as if his tongue were too large for his mouth. 'It might be,' he repeated. 'But--I
am not very well this morning. Do you think you could get me a glass of water?'

'None of that!' the old man retorted sharply, with a sudden look of alarm. 'I would not leave
you alone with that book at this moment for all the shillings I have taken! So if you want
water you've got to get it.'

'I am better now,' Mr. Fishwick answered. But the sweat that stood on his brow went far to
belie his words. 'I--yes, I think I'll take an extract. Sixty-one, was he?'

'Eighty-one, eighty-one, it says. There's pen and ink, but you'll please to give me five shillings
before you write. Thank you kindly. Lord save us, but that is not the one. You're taking out
the one above it.'

'I'll have 'em all--for identification,' Mr. Fishwick replied, wiping his forehead nervously.

'Sho! You have no need.'

'I think I will.'

'What, all?'

'Well, the one before and the one after.'

'Dods! man, but that will be fifteen shillings!' the clerk cried, aghast at such extravagance.

'You'll only charge for the entry I want?' the lawyer said with an effort.

'Well--we'll say five shillings for the other two.'

Mr. Fishwick closed with the offer, and with a hand which was still unsteady paid the money
and extracted the entries. Then he took his hat, and hurriedly, his eyes averted, turned to go.

'If it's money,' the old clerk said, staring at him as if he could never satisfy his inquisitiveness,
'you'll not forget me?'

'If it's money,' Mr. Fishwick said with a ghastly smile, 'it shall be some in your pocket.'

'Thank you kindly. Thank you kindly, sir! Now who would ha' thought when you stepped in here
you were stepping into fortune, so to speak?'

'Just so,' Mr. Fishwick answered, a spasm distorting his face. 'Who'd have thought it? Good
morning!'

'And good-luck!' the clerk bawled after him. 'Good-luck!'

Mr. Fishwick fluttered a hand backward, but made no answer. His first object was to escape
from the court; this done, he plunged through a stream of traffic, and having covered his trail,
went on rapidly, seeking a quiet corner. He found one in a square among some warehouses, and
standing, pulled out the copy he had made from the register. It was neither on the first nor
the second entry, however, that his eyes dwelled, while the hand that held the paper shook
as with the ague. It was the third fascinated him:--

'September 19th,' it ran, 'at the Bee in Steep Street, Julia, daughter of Anthony and Julia
Soane of Estcombe, aged three, and buried the 21st of the month.'

Mr. Fishwick read it thrice, his lips quivering; then he slowly drew from a separate pocket
a little sheaf of papers, frayed at the corners, and soiled with much and loving handling.
He selected from these a slip; it was one of those which Mr. Thomasson had surprised on the
table in the room at the Castle Inn. It was a copy of the attestation of birth 'of Julia, daughter
of Anthony Soane, of Estcombe, England, and Julie his wife'; the date, August, 1747; the place,
Dunquerque.

The Attorney drew a long quivering breath, and put the papers up again, the packet in the place
from which he had taken it, the extract from the Bristol register in another pocket. Then,
after drawing one or two more sighs as if his heart were going out of him, he looked dismally
upwards as in protest against heaven. At length he turned and went back to the thoroughfare,
and there, with a strangely humble air, asked a passer-by the nearest way to Steep Street.

The man directed him; the place was near at hand. In two minutes Mr. Fishwick found himself
at the door of a small but decent grocer's shop, over the portal of which a gilded bee seemed
to prognosticate more business than the fact performed. An elderly woman, stout and comfortable-looking,
was behind the counter. Eyeing the attorney as he came forward, she asked him what she could
do for him, and before he could answer reached for the snuff canister.

He took the hint, requested an ounce of the best Scotch and Havannah mixed, and while she weighed
it, asked her how long she had lived there.

'Twenty-six years, sir,' she answered heartily, 'Old Style. For the New, I don't hold with
it nor them that meddle with things above them. I am sure it brought me no profit,' she continued,
rubbing her nose. 'I have buried a good husband and two children since they gave it us!'

'Still, I suppose people died Old Style?' the lawyer ventured.

'Well, well, may be.'

'There was a death in this house seventeen years gone this September,' he said, 'if I remember
rightly.'

The woman pushed away the snuff and stared at him. 'Two, for the matter of that,' she said
sharply. 'But should I remember you?'

'No.'

'Then, if I may make so bold, what is't to you?' she retorted. 'Do you come from Jim Masterson?'

'He is dead,' Mr. Fishwick answered.

She threw up her hands. 'Lord! And he a young man, so to speak! Poor Jim! Poor Jim! It is ten
years and more--ay, more--since I heard from him. And the child? Is that dead too?'

'No, the child is alive,' the lawyer answered, speaking at a venture, 'I am here on her behalf,
to make some inquiries about her kinsfolk.'

The woman's honest red face softened and grew motherly. 'You may inquire,' she said, 'you'll
learn no more than I can tell you. There is no one left that's kin to her. The father was a
poor Frenchman, a monsieur that taught the quality about here; the mother was one of his people--she
came from Canterbury, where I am told there are French and to spare. But according to her account
she had no kin left. He died the year after the child was born, and she came to lodge with
me, and lived by teaching, as he had; but 'twas a poor livelihood, you may say, and when she
sickened, she died--just as a candle goes out.'

'When?' Mr. Fishwick asked, his eyes glued to the woman's face.

'The week Jim Masterson came to see us bringing the child from foreign parts--that was buried
with her. 'Twas said his child took the fever from her and got its death that way. But I don't
know. I don't know. It is true they had not brought in the New Style then; but--'

'You knew him before? Masterson, I mean?'

'Why, he had courted me!' was the good-tempered answer. 'You don't know much if you don't know
that. Then my good man came along and I liked him better, and Jim went into service and married
Oxfordshire way. But when he came to Bristol after his journey in foreign parts, 'twas natural
he should come to see me; and my husband, who was always easy, would keep him a day or two--more's
the pity, for in twenty-four hours the child he had with him began to sicken, and died. And
never was man in such a taking, though he swore the child was not his, but one he had adopted
to serve a gentleman in trouble; and because his wife had none. Any way, it was buried along
with my lodger, and nothing would serve but he must adopt the child she had left. It seemed
ordained-like, they being of an age, and all. And I had two children to care for, and was looking
for another that never came; and the mother had left no more than buried her with a little
help. So he took it with him, and we heard from him once or twice, how it fared, and that his
wife took to it, and the like; and then--well, writing's a burden. But,' with renewed interest,
'she's a well-grown girl by now, I guess?'

'Yes,' the attorney answered absently, 'she--she's a well-grown girl.'

'And is poor Jim's wife alive?'

'Yes.'

'Ah,' the good woman answered, looking thoughtfully into the street.' If she were not--I'd
think about taking to the girl myself. It's lonely at times without chick or child. And there's
the shop to tend. She could help with that.'

The attorney winced. He was looking ill; wretchedly ill. But he had his back to the light,
and she remarked nothing save that he seemed to be a sombre sort of body and poor company.
'What was the Frenchman's name?' he asked after a pause.

'Parry,' said she. And then, sharply, 'Don't they call her by it?'

'It has an English sound,' he said doubtfully, evading her question.

'That is the way he called it. But it was spelled Pare, just Pare.'

'Ah,' said Mr. Fishwick. 'That explains it.' He wondered miserably why he had asked what did
not in the least matter; since, if she were not a Soane, it mattered not who she was. After
an interval he recovered himself with a sigh. 'Well, thank you,' he continued, 'I am much obliged
to you. And now--for the moment--good-morning, ma'am. I must wish you good-morning,' he repeated,
hurriedly; and took up his snuff.

'But that is not all?' the good woman exclaimed in astonishment. 'At any rate you'll leave
your name?'

Mr. Fishwick pursed up his lips and stared at her gloomily. 'Name?' he said at last. 'Yes,
ma'am, certainly. Brown. Mr. Peter Brown, the--the Poultry--'

'The Poultry!' she cried, gaping at him helplessly.

'Yes, the Poultry, London. Mr. Peter Brown, the Poultry, London. And now I have other business
and shall--shall return another day. I must wish you good-morning, ma'am, Good-morning.' And
thrusting his face into his hat, Mr. Fishwick bundled precipitately into the street, and with
singular recklessness made haste to plunge into the thickest of the traffic, leaving the good
woman in a state of amazement.

Nevertheless, he reached the inn safely. When Mr. Dunborough returned from a futile search,
his failure in which condemned him to another twenty-four hours in that company, the first
thing he saw was the attorney's gloomy face awaiting them in a dark corner of the coffee-room.
The sight reproached him subtly, he knew not why; he was in the worst of tempers, and, for
want of a better outlet, he vented his spleen on the lawyer's head.

'D--n you!' he cried, brutally. 'Your hang-dog phiz is enough to spoil any sport! Hang me if
I believe that there is such another mumping, whining, whimpering sneak in the 'varsal world!
D'you think any one will have luck with your tallow face within a mile of him?' Then longing,
but not daring, to turn his wrath on Sir George, 'What do you bring him for?' he cried.

'For my convenience,' Sir George retorted, with a look of contempt that for the time silenced
the other. And that said, Soane proceeded to explain to Mr. Fishwick, who had answered not
a word, that the rogues had got into hiding; but that by means of persons known to Mr. Dunborough
it was hoped that they would be heard from that evening or the next. Then, struck by the attorney's
sickly face, 'I am afraid you are not well, Mr. Fishwick,' Sir George continued, more kindly.
'The night has been too much for you. I would advise you to lie down for a few hours and take
some rest. If anything is heard I will send word to you.'

Mr. Fishwick thanked him, without meeting his eyes; and after a minute or two retired. Sir
George looked after him, and pondered a little on the change in his manner. Through the stress
of the night Mr. Fishwick had shown himself alert and eager, ready and not lacking in spirit;
now he had depression written large on his face, and walked and bore himself like a man sinking
under a load of despondency.

All that day the messenger from the slums was expected but did not come; and between the two
men who sat downstairs, strange relations prevailed. Sir George did not venture to let the
other out of his sight; yet there were times when they came to the verge of blows, and nothing
but the knowledge of Sir George's swordsmanship kept Mr. Dunborough's temper within bounds.
At dinner, at which Sir George insisted that the attorney should sit down with them, Dunborough
drank his two bottles of wine, and in his cups fell into a strain peculiarly provoking.

'Lord! you make me sick,' he said. 'All this pother about a girl that a month ago your high
mightiness would not have looked at in the street. You are vastly virtuous now, and sneer at
me; but, damme! which of us loves the girl best? Take away her money, and will you marry her?
I'd 'a done it, without a rag to her back. But take away her money, and will you do the same,
Mr. Virtuous?'

Sir George listening darkly, and putting a great restraint on himself, did not answer. Mr.
Fishwick waited a moment, then got up suddenly, and hurried from the room--with a movement
so abrupt that he left his wine-glass in fragments on the floor.

CHAPTER XXVIII

A ROUGH AWAKENING

Lord Almeric continued to vapour and romance as he mounted the stairs. Mr. Pomeroy attended,
sneering, at his heels. The tutor followed, and longed to separate them. He had his fears for
the one and of the other, and was relieved when his lordship at the last moment hung back,
and with a foolish chuckle proposed a plan that did more honour to his vanity than his taste.

'Hist!' he whispered. 'Do you two stop outside a minute, and you'll hear how kind she'll be
to me! I'll leave the door ajar, and then in a minute do you come in and roast her! Lord, 'twill
be as good as a play!'

Mr. Pomeroy shrugged his shoulders. 'As you please,' he growled. 'But I have known a man go
to shear and be shorn!'

Lord Almeric smiled loftily, and waiting for no more, winked to them, turned the handle of
the door, and simpered in.

Had Mr. Thomasson entered with him, the tutor would have seen at a glance that he had wasted
his fears; and that whatever trouble threatened brooded in a different quarter. The girl, her
face a blaze of excitement and shame and eagerness, stood in the recess of the farther window
seat, as far from the door as she could go; her attitude the attitude of one driven into a
corner. And from that alone her lover should have taken warning. But Lord Almeric saw nothing,
feared nothing. Crying 'Most lovely Julia!' he tripped forward to embrace her, and, the wine
emboldening him, was about to clasp her in his arms, when she checked him by a gesture unmistakable
even by a man in his flustered state.

'My lord,' she said hurriedly, yet in a tone of pleading--and her head hung a little, and her
cheeks began to flame. 'I ask your forgiveness for having sent for you. Alas, I have also to
ask your forgiveness for a more serious fault. One--one which you may find it less easy to
pardon,' she added, her courage failing.

'Try me!' the little beau answered with ardour; and he struck an attitude. 'What would I not
forgive to the loveliest of her sex?' And under cover of his words he made a second attempt
to come within reach of her.

She waved him back. 'No!' she said. 'You do not understand me.'

'Understand?' he cried effusively. 'I understand enough to--but why, my Chloe, these alarms,
this bashfulness? Sure,' he spouted,

     'How can I see you, and not love,
       While you as Opening East are fair?
     While cold as Northern Blasts you prove,
       How can I love and not despair?'

And then, in wonder at his own readiness, 'S'help me! that's uncommon clever of me,' he said.
'But when a man is in love with the most beautiful of her sex--'

'My lord!' she cried, stamping the floor in her impatience. 'I have something serious to say
to you. Must I ask you to return to me at another time? Or will you be good enough to listen
to me now?'

'Sho, if you wish it, child,' he said lightly, taking out his snuff-box. 'And to be sure there
is time enough. But between us two, sweet--'

'There is nothing between us!' she cried, impetuously snatching at the word. 'That is what
I wanted to tell you. I made a mistake when I said that there should be. I was mad; I was wicked,
if you like. Do you hear me, my lord?' she continued passionately. 'It was a mistake. I did
not know what I was doing. And, now I do understand, I take it back.'

Lord Almeric gasped. He heard the words, but the meaning seemed incredible, inconceivable;
the misfortune, if he heard aright, was too terrible; the humiliation too overwhelming! He
had brought listeners--and for this! 'Understand?' he cried, looking at her in a confused,
chap-fallen way. 'Hang me if I do understand! You don't mean to say--Oh, it is impossible,
stuff me! it is. You don't mean that--that you'll not have me? After all that has come and
gone, ma'am?'

She shook her head; pitying him, blaming herself, for the plight in which she had placed him.
'I sent for you, my lord,' she said humbly, 'that I might tell you at once. I could not rest
until I had told you. I did what I could. And, believe me, I am very, very sorry.'

'But do you mean--that you--you jilt me?' he cried, still fighting off the dreadful truth.

'Not jilt!' she said, shivering.

'That you won't have me?'

She nodded.

'After--after saying you would?' he wailed.

'I cannot,' she answered. Then, 'Cannot you understand?' she cried, her face scarlet. 'I did
not know until--until you went to kiss me.'

'But--oh, I say--but you love me?' he protested.

'No, my lord,' she said firmly. 'No. And there, you must do me the justice to acknowledge that
I never said I did.'

He dashed his hat on the floor: he was almost weeping. 'Oh, damme!' he cried, 'a woman should
not--should not treat a man like this. It's low. It's cruel! It's--'

A knock on the door stopped him. Recollection of the listeners, whom he had momentarily forgotten,
revived, and overwhelmed him. With an oath he sprang to shut the door, but before he could
intervene Mr. Pomeroy appeared smiling on the threshold; and behind him the reluctant tutor.

Lord Almeric swore, and Julia, affronted by the presence of strangers at such a time, drew
back, frowning. But Bully Pomeroy would see nothing. 'A thousand pardons if I intrude,' he
said, bowing this way and that, that he might hide a lurking grin. 'But his lordship was good
enough to say a while ago, that he would present us to the lady who had consented to make him
happy. We little thought last night, ma'am, that so much beauty and so much goodness were reserved
for one of us.'

Lord Almeric looked ready to cry. Julia, darkly red, was certain that they had overheard; she
stood glaring at the intruders, her foot tapping the floor. No one answered, and Mr. Pomeroy,
after looking from one to the other in assumed surprise, pretended to hit on the reason. 'Oh,
I see; I spoil sport!' he cried with coarse joviality. 'Curse me if I meant to! I fear we have
come mal à propos, my lord, and the sooner we are gone the better.

     'And though she found his usage rough,
     Yet in a man 'twas well enough!'

he hummed, with his head on one side and an impudent leer. 'We are interrupting the turtledoves,
Mr. Thomasson, and had better be gone.'

'Curse you! Why did you ever come?' my lord cried furiously. 'But she won't have me. So there!
Now you know.'

Mr. Pomeroy struck an attitude of astonishment.

'Won't have you?' he cried, 'Oh, stap me! you are biting us.'

'I'm not! And you know it!' the poor little blood answered, tears of vexation in his eyes.
'You know it, and you are roasting me!'

'Know it?' Mr. Pomeroy answered in tones of righteous indignation. 'I know it? So far from
knowing it, my dear lord, I cannot believe it! I understood that the lady had given you her word.'

'So she did.'

'Then I cannot believe that a lady would anywhere, much less under my roof, take it back. Madam,
there must be some mistake here,' Mr. Pomeroy continued warmly. 'It is intolerable that a man
of his lordship's rank should be so treated. I'm forsworn if he has not mistaken you.'

'He does not mistake me now,' she answered, trembling and blushing painfully. 'What error there
was I have explained to him.'

'But, damme--'

'Sir!' she said with awakening spirit, her eyes sparkling. 'What has happened is between his
lordship and myself. Interference on the part of any one else is an intrusion, and I shall
treat it as such. His lordship understood--'

'Curse me! He does not look as if he understood,' Mr. Pomeroy cried, allowing his native coarseness
to peep through. 'Sink me, ma'am, there is a limit to prudishness. Fine words butter no parsnips.
You plighted your troth to my guest, and I'll not see him thrown over i' this fashion. These
airs and graces are out of place. I suppose a man has some rights under his own roof, and when
his guest is jilted before his eyes'--here Mr. Pomeroy frowned like Jove--'it is well you should
know, ma'am, that a woman no more than a man can play fast and loose at pleasure.'

She looked at him with disdain. 'Then the sooner I leave your roof the better, sir,' she said.

'Not so fast there, either,' he answered with an unpleasant smile. 'You came to it when you
chose, and you will leave it when we choose; and that is flat, my girl. This morning, when
my lord did you the honour to ask you, you gave him your word. Perhaps to-morrow morning you'll
be of the same mind again. Any way, you will wait until to-morrow and see.'

'I shall not wait on your pleasure,' she cried, stung to rage.

'You will wait on it, ma'am! Or 'twill be the worse for you.'

Burning with indignation she turned to the other two, her breath coming quick. But Mr. Thomasson
gazed gloomily at the floor, and would not meet her eyes; and Lord Almeric, who had thrown
himself into a chair, was glowering sulkily at his shoes. 'Do you mean,' she cried, 'that you
will dare to detain me, sir?'

'If you put it so,' Pomeroy answered, grinning, 'I think I dare take it on myself.'

His voice full of mockery, his insolent eyes, stung her to the quick. 'I will see if that be
so,' she cried, fearlessly advancing on him. 'Lay a finger on me if you dare! I am going out.
Make way, sir.'

'You are not going out!' he cried between his teeth. And held his ground in front of her.

She advanced until she was within touch of him, then her courage failed her; they stood a second
or two gazing at one another, the girl with heaving breast and cheeks burning with indignation,
the man with cynical watchfulness. Suddenly, shrinking from actual contact with him, she sprang
aside, and was at the door before he could intercept her. But with a rapid movement he turned
on his heel, seized her round the waist before she could open the door, dragged her shrieking
from it, and with an oath--and not without an effort--flung her panting and breathless into
the window-seat. 'There!' he cried ferociously, his blood fired by the struggle; 'lie there!
And behave yourself, my lady, or I'll find means to quiet you. For you,' he continued, turning
fiercely on the tutor, whose face the sudden scuffle and the girl's screams had blanched to
the hue of paper, 'did you never hear a woman squeak before? And you, my lord? Are you so dainty?
But, to be sure, 'tis your lordship's mistress,' he continued ironically. 'Your pardon. I forgot
that. I should not have handled her so roughly. However, she is none the worse, and 'twill
bring her to reason.'

But the struggle and the girl's cries had shaken my lord's nerves. 'D--n you!' he cried hysterically,
and with a stamp of the foot, 'you should not have done that.'

'Pooh, pooh,' Mr. Pomeroy answered lightly. 'Do you leave it to me, my lord. She does not know
her own mind. 'Twill help her to find it. And now, if you'll take my advice, you'll leave her
to a night's reflection.'

But Lord Almeric only repeated, 'You should not have done that.'

Mr. Pomeroy's face showed his scorn for the man whom a cry or two and a struggling woman had
frightened. Yet he affected to see art in it. 'I understand. And it is the right line to take,'
he said; and he laughed unpleasantly. 'No doubt it will be put to your lordship's credit. But
now, my lord,' he continued, 'let us go. You will see she will have come to her senses by to-morrow.'

The girl had remained passive since her defeat. But at this she rose from the window-seat where
she had crouched, slaying them with furious glances. 'My lord,' she cried passionately, 'if
you are a man, if you are a gentleman--you'll not suffer this.'

But Lord Almeric, who had recovered from his temporary panic, and was as angry with her as
with Pomeroy, shrugged his shoulders. 'Oh, I don't know,' he said resentfully. 'It has naught
to do with me, ma'am. I don't want you kept, but you have behaved uncommon low to me; uncommon
low. And 'twill do you good to think on it. Stap me, it will!'

And he turned on his heel and sneaked out.

Mr. Pomeroy laughed insolently. 'There is still Tommy,' he said. 'Try him. See what he'll say
to you. It amuses me to hear you plead, my dear; you put so much spirit into it. As my lord
said, before we came in, 'tis as good as a play.'

She flung him a look of scorn, but did not answer. For Mr. Thomasson, he shuffled his feet
uncomfortably. 'There are no horses,' he faltered, cursing his indiscreet companion. 'Mr. Pomeroy
means well, I know. And as there are no horses, even if nothing prevented you, you could not
go to-night, you see.'

Mr. Pomeroy burst into a shout of laughter and clapped the stammering tutor (fallen miserably
between two stools) on the back. 'There's a champion for you!' he cried. 'Beauty in distress!
Lord! how it fires his blood and turns his look to flame! What! going, Tommy?' he continued,
as Mr. Thomasson, unable to bear his raillery or the girl's fiery scorn, turned and fled ignobly.
'Well, my pretty dear, I see we are to be left alone. And, damme! quite right too, for we are
the only man and the only woman of the party, and should come to an understanding.'

Julia looked at him with shuddering abhorrence. They were alone; the sound of the tutor's retreating
footsteps was growing faint. She pointed to the door. 'If you do not go,' she cried, her voice
shaking with rage, 'I will rouse the house! I will call your people! Do you hear me? I will
so cry to your servants that you shall not for shame dare to keep me! I will break this window
and cry for help?'

'And what do you think I should be doing meanwhile?' he retorted with an ugly leer. 'I thought
I had shown you that two could play at that game. But there, child, I like your spirit! I love
you for it! You are a girl after my own heart, and, damme! we'll live to laugh at those two
old women yet!'

She shrank farther from him with an expression of loathing. He saw the look, and scowled, but
for the moment he kept his temper. 'Fie! the Little Masterson playing the grand lady!' he said.
'But there, you are too handsome to be crossed, my dear. You shall have your own way to-night,
and I'll come and talk to you to-morrow, when your head is cooler and those two fools are out
of the way. And if we quarrel then, my beauty, we can but kiss and make it up. Look on me as
your friend,' he added, with a leer from which she shrank, 'and I vow you'll not repent it.'

She did not answer, she only pointed to the door, and finding that he could draw nothing from
her, he went at last. On the threshold he turned, met her eyes with a grin of meaning, and
took the key from the inside of the lock. She heard him insert it on the outside, and turn
it, and had to grip one hand with the other to stay the scream that arose in her throat. She
was brave beyond most women; but the ease with which he had mastered her, the humiliation of
contact with him, the conviction of her helplessness in his grasp lay on her still. They filled
her with fear; which grew more definite as the light, already low in the corners of the room,
began to fail, and the shadows thickened about the dingy furniture, and she crouched alone
against the barred window, listening for the first tread of a coming foot--and dreading the night.

CHAPTER XXIX

MR. POMEROY'S PLAN

Mr. Pomeroy chuckled as he went down the stairs. Things had gone so well for him, he owed it
to himself to see that they went better, he had mounted with a firm determination to effect
a breach even if it cost him my lord's enmity. He descended, the breach made, the prize open
to competition, and my lord obliged by friendly offices and unselfish service.

Mr. Pomeroy smiled. 'She is a saucy baggage,' he muttered, 'but I've tamed worse. 'Tis the
first step is hard, and I have taken that. Now to deal with Mother Olney. If she were not such
a fool, or if I could be rid of her and Jarvey, and put in the Tamplins, all's done. But she'd
talk! The kitchen wench need know nothing; for visitors, there are none in this damp old hole.
Win over Mother Olney and the Parson--and I don't see where I can fail. The wench is here,
safe and tight, and bread and water, damp and loneliness will do a great deal. She don't deserve
better treatment, hang her impudence!'

But when he appeared in the hall an hour later, his gloomy face told a different story. 'Where's
Doyley?' he growled; and stumbled over a dog, kicked it howling into a corner. 'Has he gone
to bed?'

The tutor, brooding sulkily over his wine, looked up. 'Yes,' he said, as rudely as he dared--he
was sick with disappointment. 'He is going in the morning.'

'And a good riddance!' Pomeroy cried with an oath. 'He's off it, is he? He gives up?'

The tutor nodded gloomily. 'His lordship is not the man,' he said, with an attempt at his former
manner, 'to--to--'

'To win the odd trick unless he holds six trumps,' Mr. Pomeroy cried. 'No, by God! he is not.
You are right, Parson. But so much the better for you and me!'

Mr. Thomasson sniffed. 'I don't follow you,' he said stiffly.

'Don't you? You weren't so dull years ago,' Mr. Pomeroy answered, filling a glass as he stood.
He held it in his hand and looked over it at the other, who, ill at ease, fidgeted in his chair,
'You could put two and two together then, Parson, and you can put five and five together now.
They make ten--thousand.'

'I don't follow you,' the tutor repeated, steadfastly looking away from him.

'Why? Nothing is changed since we talked--except that he is out of it! And that that is done
for me for nothing, which I offered you five thousand to do. But I am generous, Tommy. I am
generous.'

'The next chance is mine,' Mr. Thomasson cried, with a glance of spite.

Mr. Pomeroy, looking down at him, laughed--a galling laugh. 'Lord! Tommy, that was a hundred
years ago,' he said contemptuously.

'You said nothing was changed!'

'Nothing is changed in my case,' Mr. Pomeroy answered confidently, 'except for the better.
In your case everything is changed--for the worse. Did you take her part upstairs? Are your
hands clean now? Does she see through you or does she not? Or, put it in another way, my friend.
It is your turn; what are you going to do?'

'Go,' the tutor answered viciously. 'And glad to be quit.'

Mr. Pomeroy sat down opposite him. 'No, you'll not go,' he said in a low voice; and drinking
off half his wine, set down the glass and regarded the other over it. 'Five and five are ten,
Tommy. You are no fool, and I am no fool.'

'I am not such a fool as to put my neck in a noose,' the tutor retorted. 'And there is no other
way of coming at what you want, Mr. Pomeroy.'

'There are twenty,' Pomeroy returned coolly. 'And, mark you, if I fail, you are spun, whether
you help rue or no. You are blown on, or I can blow on you! You'll get nothing for your cut
on the head.'

'And what shall I get if I stay?'

'I have told you.'

'The gallows.'

'No, Tommy. Eight hundred a year.'

Mr. Thomasson sneered incredulously, and having made it plain that he refused to think--thought!
He had risked so much in this enterprise, gone through so much; and to lose it all! He cursed
the girl's fickleness, her coyness, her obstinacy! He hated her. And do what he might for her
now, he doubted if he could cozen her or get much from her. Yet in that lay his only chance,
apart from Mr. Pomeroy. His eye was cunning and his tone sly when he spoke.

'You forget one thing,' he said. 'I have only to open my lips after I leave.'

'And I am nicked?' Mr. Pomeroy answered. 'True. And you will get a hundred guineas, and have
a worse than Dunborough at your heels.'

The tutor wiped his brow. 'What do you want?' he whispered.

'That old hag of a housekeeper has turned rusty,' Pomeroy answered. 'She has got it into her
head something is going to be done to the girl. I sounded her and I cannot trust her. I could
send her packing, but Jarvey is not much better, and talks when he is drunk. The girl must
be got from here.'

Mr. Thomasson raised his eyebrows scornfully.

'You need not sneer, you fool!' Pomeroy cried with a little spirt of rage.' 'Tis no harder
than to get her here.'

'Where will you take her?'

'To Tamplin's farm by the river. There, you are no wiser, but you may trust me. I can hang
the man, and the woman is no better. They have done this sort of thing before. Once get her
there, and, sink me! she'll be glad to see the parson!'

The tutor shuddered. The water was growing very deep. 'I'll have no part in it!' he said hoarsely.
'No part in it, so help me God!'

'There's no part for you!' Mr. Pomeroy answered with grim patience. 'Your part is to thwart me.'

Mr. Thomasson, half risen from his chair, sat down again. 'What do you mean?' he muttered.

'You are her friend. Your part is to help her to escape. You're to sneak to her room to-morrow,
and tell her that you'll steal the key when I'm drunk after dinner. You'll bid her be ready
at eleven, and you'll let her out, and have a chaise waiting at the end of the avenue. The
chaise will be there, you'll put her in, you'll go back to the house. I suppose you see it now?'

The tutor stared in wonder. 'She'll get away,' he said.

'Half a mile,' Mr. Pomeroy answered drily, as he filled his glass.' Then I shall stop the chaise--with
a pistol if you like, jump in--a merry surprise for the nymph; and before twelve we shall be
at Tamplin's. And you'll be free of it.'

Mr. Thomasson pondered, his face flushed, his eyes moist. 'I think you are the devil!' he said
at last.

'Is it a bargain? And see here. His lordship has gone silly on the girl. You can tell him before
he leaves what you are going to do. He'll leave easy, and you'll have an evidence--of your
good intentions!' Mr. Pomeroy added with a chuckle. 'Is it a bargain?'

'I'll not do it!' Mr. Thomasson cried faintly. 'I'll not do it!'

But he sat down again, their heads came together across the table; they talked long in low
voices. Presently Mr. Pomeroy fetched pen and paper from a table in one of the windows; where
they lay along with one or two odd volumes of Crebillon, a tattered Hoyle on whist, and Foote's
jest book. A note was written and handed over, and the two rose.

Mr. Thomasson would have liked to say a word before they parted as to no violence being contemplated
or used; something smug and fair-seeming that would go to show that his right hand did not
understand what his left was doing. But even his impudence was unequal to the task, and with
a shamefaced good-night he secured the memorandum in his pocket-book and sneaked up to bed.

He had every opportunity of carrying out Pomeroy's suggestion to make Lord Almeric his confidant.
For when he entered the chamber which they shared, he found his lordship awake, tossing and
turning in the shade of the green moreen curtains; in a pitiable state between chagrin and
rage. But the tutor's nerve failed him. He had few scruples--it was not that; but he was weary
and sick at heart, and for that night he felt that he had done enough. So to all my lord's
inquiries he answered as sleepily as consisted with respect, until the effect which he did
not wish to produce was produced. The young roué's suspicions were aroused, and on a sudden
he sat up in bed, his nightcap quivering on his head.

'Tommy!' he cried feverishly. 'What is afoot downstairs? Now, do you tell me the truth.'

'Nothing,' Mr. Thomasson answered soothingly.

'Because--well, she's played it uncommon low on me, uncommon low she's played it,' my lord
complained pathetically; 'but fair is fair, and willing's willing! And I'll not see her hurt.
Pom's none too nice, I know, but he's got to understand that. I'm none of your Methodists,
Tommy, as you are aware, no one more so! But, s'help me! no one shall lay a hand on her against
her will!'

'My dear lord, no one is going to!' the tutor answered, quaking in his bed.

'That is understood, is it? Because it had better be!' the little lord continued with unusual
vigour. 'I vow I have no cause to stand up for her. She's a d--d saucy baggage, and has treated
me with--with d--d disrespect. But, oh Lord! Tommy, I'd have been a good husband to her. I
would indeed. And been kind to her. And now--she's made a fool of me! She's made a fool of me!'

And my lord took off his nightcap, and wiped his eyes with it.

CHAPTER XXX

A GREEK GIFT

Julia, left alone, and locked in the room, passed such a night as a girl instructed in the
world's ways might have been expected to pass in her position, and after the rough treatment
of the afternoon. The room grew dark, the dismal garden and weedy pool that closed the prospect
faded from sight; and still as she crouched by the barred window, or listened breathless at
the door, all that part of the house lay silent. Not a sound of life came to the ear.

By turns she resented and welcomed this. At one time, pacing the floor in a fit of rage and
indignation, she was ready to dash herself against the door, or scream and scream and scream
until some one came to her. At another the recollection of Pomeroy's sneering smile, of his
insolent grasp, revived to chill and terrify her; and she hid in the darkest corner, hugged
the solitude, and, scarcely daring to breathe, prayed that the silence might endure for ever.

But the hours in the dark room were long and cold; and at times the fever of rage and fear
left her in the chill. Of this came another phase through which she passed, as the night wore
on and nothing happened. Her thoughts reverted to him who should have been her protector, but
had become her betrayer--and by his treachery had plunged her into this misery; and on a sudden
a doubt of his guilt flashed into her mind and blinded her by its brilliance. Had she done
him an injustice? Had the abduction been, after all, concerted not by him but by Mr. Thomasson
and his confederates? The setting down near Pomeroy's gate, the reception at his house, the
rough, hasty suit paid to her--were these all parts of a drama cunningly arranged to mystify
her? And was he innocent? Was he still her lover, true, faithful, almost her husband?

If she could think so! She rose, and softly walked the floor in the darkness, tears raining
down her face. Oh, if she could be sure of it! At the thought, the thought only, she glowed
from head to foot with happy shame. And fear? If this were so, if his love were still hers,
and hers the only fault--of doubting him, she feared nothing! Nothing! She felt her way to
a tray in the corner where her last meal remained untasted, and ate and drank humbly, and for
him. She might need her strength.

She had finished, and was groping her return to the window-seat, when a faint rustle as of
some one moving on the other side of the door caught her ear. She had fancied herself brave
enough an instant before, but in the darkness a great horror of fear came on her. She stood
rooted to the spot; and heard the noise again. It was followed by the sound of a hand passed
stealthily over the panels; a hand seeking, as she thought, for the key; and she could have
shrieked in her helplessness. But while she stood, her face turned to stone, came instant relief,
A voice, subdued in fear, whispered, 'Hist, ma'am, hist! Are you asleep?'

She could have fallen on her knees in her thankfulness. 'No! no!' she cried eagerly. 'Who is it?'

'It is me--Olney!' was the answer. 'Keep a heart, ma'am! They are gone to bed. You are quite safe.'

'Can you let me out?' Julia cried. 'Oh, let me out!'

'Let you out?'

'Yes, yes! Let me out? Please let me out.'

'God forbid, ma'am!' was the horrified answer. 'He'd kill me. And he has the key. But--'

'Yes? yes?'

'Keep your heart up, ma'am, for Jarvey'll not see you hurt; nor will I. You may sleep easy.
And good-night!'

She stole away before Julia could answer; but she left comfort. In a glow of thankfulness the
girl pushed a chair against the door, and, wrapping herself for warmth in the folds of the
shabby curtains, lay down on the window seat. She was willing to sleep now, but the agitation
of her thoughts, the whirl of fear and hope that prevailed in them, as she went again and again
over the old ground, kept her long awake. The moon had risen and run its course, decking the
old garden with a solemn beauty as of death, and was beginning to retreat before the dawn,
when Julia slept at last.

When she awoke it was broad daylight. A moment she gazed upwards, wondering where she was;
the next a harsh grating sound, and the echo of a mocking laugh brought her to her feet in
a panic of remembrance.

The key was still turning in the lock--she saw it move, saw it withdrawn; but the room was
empty. And while she stood staring and listening heavy footsteps retired along the passage.
The chair which she had set against the door had been pushed back, and milk and bread stood
on the floor beside it.

She drew a deep breath; he had been there. But her worst terrors had passed with the night.
The sun was shining, filling her with scorn of her gaoler. She panted to be face to face with
him, that she might cover him with ridicule, overwhelm him with the shafts of her woman's wit,
and show him how little she feared and how greatly she despised him.

But he did not appear; the hours passed slowly, and with the afternoon came a clouded sky,
and weariness and reaction of spirits; fatigue of body, and something like illness; and on
that a great terror. If they drugged her in her food? The thought was like a knife in the girl's
heart, and while she still writhed on it, her ear caught the creak of a board in the passage,
and a furtive tread that came, and softly went again, and once more returned. She stood, her
heart beating; and fancied she heard the sound of breathing on the other side of the door.
Then her eye alighted on a something white at the foot of the door, that had not been there
a minute earlier. It was a tiny note. While she gazed at it the footsteps stole away again.

She pounced on the note and opened it, thinking it might be from Mrs. Olney. But the opening
lines smacked of other modes of speech than hers; and though Julia had no experience of Mr.
Thomasson's epistolary style, she felt no surprise when she found the initials F.T. appended
to the message.

'Madam,' it ran. 'You are in danger here, and I in no less of being held to account for acts
which my heart abhors. Openly to oppose myself to Mr. P.--the course my soul dictates--were
dangerous for us both, and another must be found. If he drink deep to-night, I will, heaven
assisting, purloin the key, and release you at ten, or as soon after as may be. Jarvey, who
is honest, and fears the turn things are taking, will have a carriage waiting in the road.
Be ready, hide this, and when you are free, though I seek no return for services attended by
much risk, yet if you desire to find one, an easy way may appear of requiting,

'Madam, your devoted, obedient servant, F.T.'

Julia's face glowed. 'He cannot do even a kind act as it should be done,' she thought. 'But
once away it will be easy to reward him. At worst he shall tell me how I came to be set down here.'

She spent the rest of the day divided between anxiety on that point--for Mr. Thomasson's intervention
went some way to weaken the theory she had built up with so much joy--and impatience for night
to come and put an end to her suspense. She was now as much concerned to escape the ordeal
of Mr. Pomeroy's visit as she had been earlier in the day to see him. And she had her wish.
He did not come; she fancied he might be willing to let the dullness and loneliness, the monotony
and silence of her prison, work their effect on her mind.

Night, as welcome to-day as it had been yesterday unwelcome, fell at last, and hid the dingy
familiar room, the worn furniture, the dusky outlook. She counted the minutes, and before it
was nine by the clock was the prey of impatience, thinking the time past and gone and the tutor
a poor deceiver. Ten was midnight to her; she hoped against hope, walking her narrow bounds
in the darkness. Eleven found her lying on her face on the floor, heaving dry sobs of despair,
her hair dishevelled. And then, on a sudden she sprang up; the key was grating in the lock!
While she stared, half demented, scarcely believing her happiness, Mr. Thomasson appeared on
the threshold, his head--he wore no wig--muffled in a woman's shawl, a shaded lanthorn in his hand.

'Come!' he said. 'There is not a moment to be lost.'

'Oh!' she cried hysterically, yet kept her shaking voice low; 'I thought you were not coming.
I thought it was all over.'

'I am late,' he answered nervously; his face was pale, his shifty eyes avoided hers.' It is
eleven o'clock, but I could not get the key before. Follow me closely and silently, child;
and in a few minutes you will be safe.'

'Heaven bless you!' she cried, weeping. And would have taken his hand.

But at that he turned from her so abruptly that she marvelled, for she had not judged him a
man averse from thanks. But setting his manner down to the danger and the need of haste, she
took the hint and controlling her feelings, prepared to follow him in silence. Holding the
lanthorn so that its light fell on the floor he listened an instant, then led the way on tip-toe
down the dim corridor. The house was hushed round them; if a board creaked under their feet,
it seemed to her scared ears a pistol shot. At the entrance to the gallery which was partly
illumined by lights still burning in the hall below, the tutor paused anew an instant to listen,
then turned quickly from it, and by a narrow passage on the right gained a back staircase.
Descending the steep stairs he guided her by devious turnings through dingy offices and servants'
quarters until they stood in safety before an outer door. To withdraw the bar that secured
it, while she held the lanthorn, was for the tutor the work of an instant. They passed through,
and he closed the door softly behind them.

After the confinement of her prison, the night air that blew on her temples was rapture to
Julia; for it breathed of freedom. She turned her face up to the dark boughs that met and interlaced
above her head, and whispered her thankfulness. Then, obedient to Mr. Thomasson's impatient
gesture, she hastened to follow him along a dank narrow path that skirted the wall of the house
for a few yards, then turned off among the trees.

They had left the wall no more than a dozen paces behind them, when Mr. Thomasson paused, as
in doubt, and raised his light. They were in a little beech-coppice that grew close up to the
walls of the servants' offices. The light showed the dark shining trunks, running in solemn
rows this way and that; and more than one path trodden smooth across the roots. The lanthorn
disclosed no more, but apparently this was enough for Mr. Thomasson. He pursued the path he
had chosen, and less than a minute's walking brought them to the avenue.

Julia drew a breath of relief and looked behind and before. 'Where is the carriage?' she whispered,
shivering with excitement.

The tutor before he answered raised his lanthorn thrice to the level of his head, as if to
make sure of his position. Then, 'In the road,' he answered. 'And the sooner you are in it
the better, child, for I must return and replace the key before he sobers. Or 'twill, be worse
for me,' he added snappishly, 'than for you.'

'You are not coming with me? 'she exclaimed in surprise.

'No, I--I can't quarrel with him,' he answered hurriedly. 'I--I am under obligations to him.
And once in the carriage you'll be safe.'

'Then please to tell me this,' Julia rejoined, her breath a little short. 'Mr. Thomasson, did
you know anything of my being carried off before it took place?'

'I?' he cried effusively. 'Did I know?'

'I mean--were you employed--to bring me to Mr. Pomeroy's?'

'I employed? To bring you to Mr. Pomeroy's? Good heavens! ma'am, what do you take me for?'
the tutor cried in righteous indignation. 'No, ma'am, certainly not! I am not that kind of
man!' And then blurting out the truth in his surprise, 'Why, 'twas Mr. Dunborough!' he said.
'And like him too! Heaven keep us from him!'

'Mr. Dunborough?' she exclaimed.

'Yes, yes.'

'Oh,' she said, in a helpless, foolish kind of way. 'It was Mr. Dunborough, was it?' And she
begged his pardon. And did it too so humbly, in a voice so broken by feeling and gratitude,
that, bad man as he was, his soul revolted from the work he was upon; and for an instant, he
stood still, the lanthorn swinging in his hand.

She misinterpreted the movement. 'Are we right?' she said, anxiously. 'You don't think that
we are out of the road?' Though the night was dark, and it was difficult to discern, anything
beyond the circle of light thrown by the lanthorn, it struck her that the avenue they were
traversing was not the one by which she had approached the house two nights before. The trees
seemed to stand farther from one another and to be smaller. Or was it her fancy?

But it was not that had moved him to stand; for in a moment, with a curious sound between a
groan and a curse he led the way on, without answering her. Fifty paces brought them to the
gate and the road. Thomasson held up his lanthorn and looked over the gate.

'Where is the carriage?' she whispered, startled by the darkness and silence.

'It should be here,' he answered, his voice betraying his perplexity. 'It should be here at
this gate. But I--I don't see it.'

'Would it have lights?' she asked anxiously. He had opened the gate by this time, and as she
spoke they passed through, and stood together looking up and down the road. The moon was obscured,
and the lanthorn's rays were of little use to find a carriage which was not there.

'It should be here, and it should have lights,' he said in evident dismay. 'I don't know what
to think of it. I--ha! What is that? It is coming, I think. Yes, I hear it. The coachman must
have drawn off a little for some reason, and now he has seen the lanthorn.'

He had only the sound of wheels to go upon, but he proved to be right; she uttered a sigh of
relief as the twin lights of a carriage apparently approaching round a bend of the road broke
upon them. The lights drew near and nearer, and the tutor waved his lamp. For a second the
driver appeared to be going to pass them; then, as Mr. Thomasson again waved his lanthorn and
shouted, he drew up.

'Halloa!' he said.

Mr. Thomasson did not answer, but with a trembling hand opened the door and thrust the girl
in. 'God bless you!' she murmured; 'and--' He slammed the door, cutting short the sentence.

'Well?' the driver said, looking down at him, his face in shadow; 'I am--'

'Go on!' Mr. Thomasson cried peremptorily, and waving his lanthorn again, startled the horses;
which plunged away wildly, the man tugging vainly at the reins. The tutor fancied that, as
it started, he caught a faint scream from the inside of the chaise, but he set it down to fright
caused by the sudden jerk; and, after he had stood long enough to assure himself that the carriage
was keeping the road, he turned to retrace his steps to the house.

He was feeling for the latch of the gate--his thoughts no pleasant ones, for the devil pays
scant measure--when his ear was surprised by a new sound of wheels approaching from the direction
whence the chaise had come. He stood to listen, thinking he heard an echo; but in a second
or two he saw lights approaching through the night precisely as the other lights had approached.
Once seen they came on swiftly, and he was still standing gaping in wonder when a carriage
and pair, a postboy riding and a servant sitting outside, swept by, dazzling him a moment;
the next it was gone, whirled away into the darkness.

CHAPTER XXXI

THE INN AT CHIPPENHAM

The road which passed before the gates at Bastwick was not a highway, and Mr. Thomasson stood
a full minute, staring after the carriage, and wondering what chance brought a traveller that
way at that hour. Presently it occurred to him that one of Mr. Pomeroy's neighbours might have
dined abroad, have sat late over the wine, and be now returning; and that so the incident might
admit of the most innocent explanation. Yet it left him uneasy. Until the last hum of wheels
died in the distance he stood listening and thinking. Then he turned from the gate, and with
a shiver betook himself towards the house. He had done his part.

Or had he? The road was not ten paces behind him, when a cry rent the darkness, and he paused
to listen. He caught the sound of hasty footsteps crossing the open ground on his right, and
apparently approaching; and he raised his lanthorn in alarm. The next moment a dark form vaulted
the railings that fenced the avenue on that side, sprang on the affrighted tutor, and, seizing
him violently by the collar, shook him to and fro as a terrier shakes a rat.

It was Mr. Pomeroy, beside himself with rage. 'What have you done with her?' he cried. 'You
treacherous hound! Answer, or by heaven I shall choke you!'

'Done--done with whom?' the tutor gasped, striving to free himself. 'Mr. Pomeroy, I am not--what
does this--mean?'

'With her? With the girl?'

'She is--I have put her in the carriage! I swear I have! Oh!' he shrieked, as Mr. Pomeroy,
in a fresh access of passion, gripped his throat and squeezed it. 'I have put her in the carriage,
I tell you! I have done everything you told me!'

'In the carriage? What carriage? In what carriage?'

'The one that was there.'

'At the gate?'

'Yes, yes.'

'You fool! You imbecile!' Mr. Pomeroy roared, as he shook him with all his strength. 'The carriage
is at the other gate.'

Mr. Thomasson gasped, partly with surprise, partly under the influence of Pomeroy's violence.
'At the other gate?' he faltered. 'But--there was a carriage here. I saw it. I put her in it.
Not a minute ago!'

'Then, by heaven, it was your carriage, and you have betrayed me,' Pomeroy retorted; and shook
his trembling victim until his teeth chattered and his eyes protruded. 'I thought I heard wheels
and I came to see. If you don't tell me the truth this instant,' he continued furiously, 'I'll
have the life out of you.'

'It is the truth,' Mr. Thomasson stammered, blubbering with fright. 'It was a carriage that
came up--and stopped. I thought it was yours, and I put her in. And it went on.'

'A lie, man--a lie!'

'I swear it is true! I swear it is! If it were not should I be going back to the house? Should
I be going to face you?' Mr. Thomasson protested.

The argument impressed Pomeroy; his grasp relaxed. 'The devil is in it, then!' he muttered.
'For no one else could have set a carriage at that gate at that minute! Anyway, I'll know.
Come on!' he continued recklessly snatching up the lanthorn, which had fallen on its side and
was not extinguished. 'We'll after her! By the Lord, we'll after her. They don't trick me so
easily!'

The tutor ventured a terrified remonstrance, but Mr. Pomeroy, deaf to his entreaties and arguments,
bundled him over the fence, and, gripping his arm, hurried him as fast as his feet would carry
him across the sward to the other gate. A carriage, its lamps burning brightly, stood in the
road. Mr. Pomeroy exchanged a few curt words with the driver, thrust in the tutor, and followed
himself. On the instant the vehicle dashed away, the coachman cracking his whip and shouting
oaths at his horses.

The hedges flew by, pale glimmering walls in the lamplight; the mud flew up and splashed Mr.
Pomeroy's face; still he hung out of the window, his hand on the fastening of the door, and
a brace of pistols on the ledge before him; while the tutor, shuddering at these preparations,
hoping against hope that they would overtake no one, cowered in the farther corner. With every
turn of the road or swerve of the horses Pomeroy expected to see the fugitives' lights. Unaware
or oblivious that the carriage he was pursuing had the start of him by so much that at top
speed he could scarcely look to overtake it under the hour, his rage increased with every disappointment.
Although the pace at which they travelled over a rough road was such as to fill the tutor with
instant terror and urgent thoughts of death--although first one lamp was extinguished and then
another, and the carriage swung so violently as from moment to moment to threaten an overturn,
Mr. Pomeroy never ceased to hang out of the window, to yell at the horses and upbraid the driver.

And with all, the labour seemed to be wasted. With wrath and a volley of curses he saw the
lights of Chippenham appear in front, and still no sign of the pursued. Five minutes later
the carriage awoke the echoes in the main street of the sleeping town, and Mr. Thomasson drew
a deep breath of relief as it came to a stand.

Not so Mr. Pomeroy. He dashed the door open and sprang out, prepared to overwhelm the driver
with reproaches. The man anticipated him. 'They are here,' he said with a sulky gesture.

'Here? Where?'

A man in a watchman's coat, and carrying a staff and lanthorn--of whom the driver had already
asked a question--came heavily round, from the off-side of the carriage. 'There is a chaise
and pair just come in from the Melksham Road,' he said, 'and gone to the Angel, if that is
what you want, your honour.'

'A lady with them?'

'I saw none, but there might be.'

'How long ago?'

'Ten minutes.'

'We're right!' Mr. Pomeroy cried with a jubilant oath, and turning back to the door of the
carriage, slipped the pistols into his skirt pockets. 'Come,' he said to Thomasson. 'And do
you,' he continued, addressing his driver, who was no other than the respectable Tamplin, 'follow
at a walking pace. Have they ordered on?' he asked, slipping a crown into the night-watchman's
hand.

'I think not, your honour,' the man answered. 'I believe they are staying.'

With a word of satisfaction Mr. Pomeroy hurried his unwilling companion towards the inn. The
streets were dark; only an oil lamp or two burned at distant points. But the darkness of the
town was noon-day light in comparison of the gloom which reigned in Mr. Thomasson's mind. In
the grasp of this headstrong man, whose temper rendered him blind to obstacles and heedless
of danger, the tutor felt himself swept along, as incapable of resistance as the leaf that
is borne upon the stream. It was not until they turned into the open space before the Angel,
and perceived a light in the doorway of the inn that despair gave him courage to remonstrate.

Then the risk and folly of the course they were pursuing struck him so forcibly that he grew
frantic. He clutched Mr. Pomeroy's sleeve, and dragging him aside out of earshot of Tamplin,
who was following them, 'This is madness!' he urged vehemently. 'Sheer madness! Have you considered,
Mr. Pomeroy? If she is here, what claim have we to interfere with her? What authority over
her? What title to force her away? If we had overtaken her on the road, in the country, it
might have been one thing. But here--'

'Here?' Mr. Pomeroy retorted, his face dark, his under-jaw thrust out hard as a rock. 'And
why not here?'

'Because--why, because she will appeal to the people.'

'What people?'

'The people who have brought her hither.'

'And what is their right to her?' Mr. Pomeroy retorted, with a brutal oath.

'The people at the inn, then.'

'Well, and what is their right? But--I see your point, parson! Damme, you are a cunning one.
I had not thought of that. She'll appeal to them, will she? Then she shall be my sister, run
off from her home! Ha! Ha! Or no, my lad,' he continued, chuckling savagely, and slapping the
tutor on the back; 'they know me here, and that I have no sister. She shall be your daughter!'
And while Mr. Thomasson stared aghast, Pomeroy laughed recklessly. 'She shall be your daughter,
man! My guest, and run off with an Irish ensign! Oh, by Gad, we'll nick her! Come on!'

Mr. Thomasson shuddered. It seemed to him the wildest scheme--a folly beyond speech. Resisting
the hand with which Pomeroy would have impelled him towards the lighted doorway, 'I will have
nothing to do with it!' he cried, with all the firmness he could muster. 'Nothing! Nothing!'

'A minute ago you might have gone to the devil!' Mr. Pomeroy answered grimly, 'and welcome!
Now, I want you. And, by heaven, if you don't stand by me I'll break your back! Who is there
here who is likely to know you? Or what have you to fear?'

'She'll expose us!' Mr. Thomasson whimpered. 'She'll tell them!'

'Who'll believe her?' the other answered with supreme contempt. 'Which is the more credible
story--hers about a lost heir, or ours? Come on, I say!'

Mr. Thomasson had been far from anticipating a risk of this kind when he entered on his career
of scheming. But he stood in mortal terror of his companion, whose reckless passions were fully
aroused; and after a brief resistance he succumbed. Still protesting, he allowed himself to
be urged past the open doors of the inn-yard--in the black depths of which the gleam of a lanthorn,
and the form of a man moving to and fro, indicated that the strangers' horses were not yet
bedded--and up the hospitable steps of the Angel Inn.

A solitary candle burning in a room on the right of the hall, guided their feet that way. Its
light disclosed a red-curtained snuggery, well furnished with kegs and jolly-bodied jars, and
rows of bottles; and in the middle of this cheerful profusion the landlord himself, stooping
over a bottle of port, which he was lovingly decanting. His array, a horseman's coat worn over
night-gear, with bare feet thrust into slippers, proved him newly risen from bed; but the hum
of voices and clatter of plates which came from the neighbouring kitchen were signs that, late
as it was, the good inn was not caught napping.

The host heard their steps behind him, but crying 'Coming, gentlemen, coming!' finished his
task before he turned. Then 'Lord save us!' he ejaculated, staring at them--the empty bottle
in one hand, the decanter in the other. 'Why, the road's alive to-night! I beg your honour's
pardon, I am sure, and yours, sir! I thought 'twas one of the gentlemen that arrived, awhile
ago--come down to see why supper lagged. Squire Pomeroy, to be sure! What can I do for you,
gentlemen? The fire is scarce out in the Hertford, and shall be rekindled at once?'

Mr. Pomeroy silenced him by a gesture. 'No,' he said; 'we are not staying. But you have some
guests here, who arrived half an hour ago?'

'To be sure, your honour. The same I was naming.' 'Is there a young lady with them?'

The landlord looked hard at him. 'A young lady?' he said.

'Yes! Are you deaf, man?' Pomeroy retorted wrathfully, his impatience getting the better of
him. 'Is there a young lady with them? That is what I asked.'

But the landlord still stared; and it was only after an appreciable interval that he answered
cautiously: 'Well, to be sure, I am not--I am not certain. I saw none, sir. But I only saw
the gentlemen when they had gone upstairs. William admitted them, and rang up the stables.
A young lady?' he continued, rubbing his head as if the question perplexed him. 'May I ask,
is't some one your honour is seeking?'

'Damme, man, should I ask if it weren't?' Mr. Pomeroy retorted angrily. 'If you must know,
it is this gentleman's daughter, who has run away from her friends.'

'Dear, dear!'

'And taken up with a beggarly Irishman!'

The landlord stared from one to the other in great perplexity. 'Dear me!' he said. 'That is
sad! The gentleman's daughter!' And he looked at Mr. Thomasson, whose fat sallow face was sullenness
itself. Then, remembering his manners, 'Well, to be sure, I'll go and learn,' he continued
briskly. 'Charles!' to a half-dressed waiter, who at that moment appeared at the foot of the
stairs, 'set lights in the Yarmouth and draw these gentlemen what they require. I'll not be
many minutes, Mr. Pomeroy.'

He hurried up the narrow staircase, and an instant later appeared on the threshold of a room
in which sat two gentlemen, facing one another in silence before a hastily-kindled fire. They
had travelled together from Bristol, cheek by jowl in a post-chaise, exchanging scarce as many
words as they had traversed miles. But patience, whether it be of the sullen or the dignified
cast, has its limits; and these two, their tempers exasperated by a chilly journey taken fasting,
had come very near to the end of sufferance. Fortunately, at the moment Mr. Dunborough--for
he was the one--made the discovery that he could not endure Sir George's impassive face for
so much as the hundredth part of another minute--and in consequence was having recourse to
his invention for the most brutal remark with which to provoke him--the port and the landlord
arrived together; and William, who had carried up the cold beef and stewed kidneys by another
staircase, was heard on the landing. The host helped to place the dishes on the table. Then
he shut out his assistant.

'By your leave, Sir George,' he said diffidently. 'But the young lady you were inquiring for?
Might I ask--?'

He paused as if he feared to give offence. Sir George laid down his knife and fork and looked
at him. Mr. Dunborough did the same. 'Yes, yes, man,' Soane said. 'Have you heard anything?
Out with it!'

'Well, sir, it is only--I was going to ask if her father lived in these parts.'

'Her father?'

'Yes, sir.'

Mr. Dunborough burst into rude laughter. 'Oh, Lord!' he said. 'Are we grown so proper of a
sudden? Her father, damme!'

Sir George shot a glance of disdain at him. Then, 'My good fellow,' he said to the host, 'her
father has been dead these fifteen years.'

The landlord reddened, annoyed by the way Mr. Dunborough had taken him. 'The gentleman mistakes
me, Sir George,' he said stiffly. 'I did not ask out of curiosity, as you, who know me, can
guess; but to be plain, your honour, there are two gentlemen below stairs, just come in; and
what beats me, though I did not tell them so, they are also in search of a young lady.'

'Indeed?' Sir George answered, looking gravely at him. 'Probably they are from the Castle Inn
at Marlborough, and are inquiring for the lady we are seeking.'

'So I should have thought,' the landlord answered, nodding sagely; 'but one of the gentlemen
says he is her father, and the other--'

Sir George stared. 'Yes?' he said, 'What of the other?'

'Is Mr. Pomeroy of Bastwick,' the host replied, lowering his voice. 'Doubtless your honour
knows him?'

'By name.'

'He has naught to do with the young lady?'

'Nothing in the world.'

'I ask because--well, I don't like to speak ill of the quality, or of those by whom one lives,
Sir George; but he has not got the best name in the county; and there have been wild doings
at Bastwick of late, and writs and bailiffs and worse. So I did not up and tell him all I knew.'

On a sudden Dunborough spoke. 'He was at College, at Pembroke,' he said. 'Doyley knows him.
He'd know Tommy too; and we know Tommy is with the girl, and that they were both dropped Laycock
way. Hang me, if I don't think there is something in this!' he continued, thrusting his feet
into slippers: his boots were drying on the hearth. 'Thomasson is rogue enough for anything!
See here, man,' he went on, rising and flinging down his napkin; 'do you go down and draw them
into the hall, so that I can hear their voices. And I will come to the head of the stairs.
Where is Bastwick?'

'Between here and Melksham, but a bit off the road, sir.'

'It would not be far from Laycock?'

'No, your honour; I should think it would be within two or three miles of it. They are both
on the flat the other side of the river.'

'Go down! go down!' Mr. Dunborough answered. 'And pump him, man! Set him talking. I believe
we have run the old fox to earth. It will be our fault if we don't find the vixen!'

CHAPTER XXXII

CHANCE MEDLEY

By this time the arrival of a second pair of travellers hard on the heels of the first had
roused the inn to full activity. Half-dressed servants flitted this way and that through the
narrow passages, setting night-caps in the chambers, or bringing up clean snuffers and snuff
trays. One was away to the buttery, to draw ale for the driver, another to the kitchen with
William's orders to the cook. Lights began to shine in the hall and behind the diamond panes
of the low-browed windows; a pleasant hum, a subdued bustle, filled the hospitable house.

On entering the Yarmouth, however, the landlord was surprised to find only the clergyman awaiting
him. Mr. Pomeroy, irritated by his long absence, had gone to the stables to learn what he could
from the postboy. The landlord was nearer indeed than he knew to finding no one; for when he
entered, Mr. Thomasson, unable to suppress his fears, was on his feet; another ten seconds,
and the tutor would have fled panic-stricken from the house.

The host did not suspect this, but Mr. Thomasson thought he did; and the thought added to his
confusion. 'I--I was coming to ask what had happened to you,' he stammered. 'You will understand,
I am very anxious to get news.'

'To be sure, sir,' the landlord answered comfortably. 'Will you step this way, and I think
we shall be able to ascertain something for certain?'

But the tutor did not like his tone; moreover, he felt safer in the room than in the public
hall. He shrank back. 'I--I think I will wait here until Mr. Pomeroy returns,' he said.

The landlord raised his eyebrows. 'I thought you were anxious, sir,' he retorted, 'to get news?'

'So I am, very anxious!' Mr. Thomasson replied, with a touch of the stiffness that marked his
manner to those below him. 'Still, I think I had better wait here. Or, no, no!' he cried, afraid
to stand out, 'I will come with you. But, you see, if she is not here, I am anxious to go in
search of her as quickly as possible, where--wherever she is.'

'To be sure, that is natural,' the landlord answered, holding the door open that the clergyman
might pass out, 'seeing that you are her father, sir. I think you said you were her father?'
he continued, as Mr. Thomasson, with a scared look round the hall, emerged from the room.

'Ye--yes,' the tutor faltered; and wished himself in the street. 'At least--I am her step-father.'

'Oh, her step-father!'

'Yes,' Mr. Thomasson answered, faintly. How he cursed the folly that had put him in this false
position! How much more strongly he would have cursed it, had he known what it was cast that
dark shadow, as of a lurking man, on the upper part of the stairs!

'Just so,' the landlord answered, as he paused at the foot of the staircase. 'And, if you please--what
might your name be, sir?'

A cold sweat rose on the tutor's brow; he looked helplessly towards the door. If he gave his
name and the matter were followed up, he would be traced, and it was impossible to say what
might not come of it. At last, 'Mr. Thomas,' he said, with a sneaking guilty look.

'Mr. Thomas, your reverence?'

'Yes.'

'And the young lady's name would be Thomas, then?'

'N-no,' Mr. Thomasson faltered. 'No. Her name--you see,' he continued, with a sickly smile,
'she is my step-daughter.'

'To be sure, your reverence. So I understood. And her name?'

The tutor glowered at his persecutor. 'I protest, you are monstrous inquisitive,' he said,
with a sudden sorry air of offence. 'But, if you must know, her name is Masterson; and she
has left her friends to join--to join a--an Irish adventurer.'

It was unfortunately said; the more as the tutor in order to keep his eye on the door, by which
he expected Mr. Pomeroy to re-enter, had turned his back on the staircase. The lie was scarcely
off his lips when a heavy hand fell on his shoulder, and, twisting him round with a jerk, brought
him face to face with an old friend. The tutor's eyes met those of Mr. Dunborough, he uttered
one low shriek, and turned as white as paper. He knew that Nemesis had overtaken him.

But not how heavy a Nemesis! For he could not know that the landlord of the Angel owned a restive
colt, and no farther back than the last fair had bought a new whip; nor that that very whip
lay at this moment where the landlord had dropped it, on a chest so near to Mr. Dunborough's
hand that the tutor never knew how he became possessed of it. Only he saw it imminent, and
would have fallen in sheer terror, his coward's knees giving way under him, if Mr. Dunborough
had not driven him back against the wall with a violence that jarred the teeth in his head.

'You liar!' the infuriated listener cried; 'you lying toad!' and shook him afresh with each
sentence. 'She has run away from her friends, has she? With an Irish adventurer, eh? And you
are her father? And your name is Thomas? Thomas, eh! Well, if you do not this instant tell
me where she is, I'll Thomas you! Now, come! One! Two! Three!'

In the last words seemed a faint promise of mercy; alas! it was fallacious. Mr. Thomasson,
the lash impending over him, had time to utter one cry; no more. Then the landlord's supple
cutting-whip, wielded by a vigorous hand, wound round the tenderest part of his legs--for at
the critical instant Mr. Dunborough dragged him from the wall--and with a gasping shriek of
pain, pain such as he had not felt since boyhood, Mr. Thomasson leapt into the air. As soon
as his breath returned, he strove frantically to throw himself down; but struggle as he might,
pour forth screams, prayers, execrations, as he might, all was vain. The hour of requital had
come. The cruel lash fell again and again, raising great wheals on his pampered body: now he
clutched Mr. Dunborough's arm only to be shaken off; now he grovelled on the floor; now he
was plucked up again, now an ill-directed cut marked his cheek. Twice the landlord, in pity
and fear for the man's life, tried to catch Mr. Dunborough's arm and stay the punishment; once
William did the same--for ten seconds of this had filled the hall with staring servants. But
Mr. Dunborough's arm and the whirling whip kept all at a distance; nor was it until a tender-hearted
housemaid ran in at risk of her beauty, and clutched his wrist and hung on it, that he tossed
the whip away, and allowed Mr. Thomasson to drop, a limp moaning rag on the floor.

'For shame!' the girl cried hysterically. 'You blackguard! You cruel blackguard!'

''Tis he's the blackguard, my dear!' the honourable Mr. Dunborough answered, panting, but in
the best of tempers. 'Bring me a tankard of something; and put that rubbish outside, landlord.
He has got no more than he deserved, my dear.'

Mr. Thomasson uttered a moan, and one of the waiters stooping over him asked him if he could
stand. He answered only by a faint groan, and the man raising his eyebrows, looked gravely
at the landlord; who, recovered from the astonishment into which the fury and suddenness of
the assault had thrown him, turned his indignation on Mr. Dunborough.

'I am surprised at you, sir,' he cried, rubbing his hands with vexation. 'I did not think a
gentleman in Sir George's company would act like this! And in a respectable house! For shame,
sir! For shame! Do, some of you,' he continued to the servants, 'take this gentleman to his
room and put him to bed. And softly with him, do you hear?'

'I think he has swooned,' the man answered, who had stooped over him.

The landlord wrung his hands. 'Fie, sir--for shame!' he said. 'Stay, Charles; I'll fetch some
brandy.'

He bustled away to do so, and to acquaint Sir George; who through all, and though from his
open door he had gathered what was happening, had resolutely held aloof. The landlord, as he
went out, unconsciously evaded Mr. Pomeroy who entered at the same moment from the street.
Ignorant of what was forward--for his companion's cries had not reached the stables--Pomeroy
advanced at his ease and was surprised to find the hall, which he had left empty, occupied
by a chattering crowd of half-dressed servants; some bending over the prostrate man with lights,
some muttering their pity or suggesting remedies; while others again glanced askance at the
victor, who, out of bravado rather than for any better reason, maintained his place at the
foot of the stairs, and now and then called to them 'to rub him--they would not rub that off!'

Mr. Pomeroy did not at first see the fallen man, so thick was the press round him. Then some
one moved, and he did; and the thing that had happened bursting on him, his face, gloomy before,
grew black as a thunder-cloud. He flung the nearest to either side, that he might see the better;
and, as they recoiled, 'Who has done this?' he cried in a voice low but harsh with rage. 'Whose
work is this?' And standing over the tutor he turned himself, looking from one to another.

But the servants knew his reputation, and shrank panic-stricken from his eye; and for a moment
no one answered. Then Mr. Dunborough, who, whatever his faults, was not a coward, took the
word. 'Whose work is it?' he answered with assumed carelessness. 'It is my work. Have you any
fault to find with it?'

'Twenty, puppy!' the elder man retorted, foaming with rage. And then, 'Have I said enough,
or do you want me to say more?' he cried.

'Quite enough,' Mr. Dunborough answered calmly. He had wreaked the worst of his rage on the
unlucky tutor. 'When you are sober I'll talk to you.'

Mr. Pomeroy with a frightful oath cursed his impudence. 'I believe I have to pay you for more
than this!' he panted. 'Is it you who decoyed a girl from my house to-night?'

Mr. Dunborough laughed aloud. 'No, but it was I sent her there,' he said. He had the advantage
of knowledge. 'And if I had brought her away again, it would have been nothing to you.'

The answer staggered Bully Pomeroy in the midst of his rage.

'Who are you?' he cried.

'Ask your friend there!' Dunborough retorted with disdain. 'I've written my name on him! It
should be pretty plain to read'; and he turned on his heel to go upstairs.

Pomeroy took two steps forward, laid his hand on the other's shoulder, and, big man as he was,
turned him round. 'Will you give me satisfaction?' he cried.

Dunborough's eyes met his. 'So that is your tone, is it?' he said slowly; and he reached for
the tankard of ale that had been brought to him, and that now stood on a chest at the foot
of the stairs.

But Mr. Pomeroy's hand was on the pot first; in a second its contents were in Dunborough's
face and dripping from his cravat. 'Now will you fight?' Bully Pomeroy cried; and as if he
knew his man, and that he had done enough, he turned his back on the stairs and strode first
into the Yarmouth.

Two or three women screamed as they saw the liquor thrown, and a waiter ran for the landlord.
A second drawer, more courageous, cried, 'Gentlemen, gentlemen--for God's sake, gentlemen!'
and threw himself between the younger man and the door of the room. But Dunborough, his face
flushed with anger, took him by the shoulder, and sent him spinning; then with an oath he followed
the other into the Yarmouth, and slammed the door in the faces of the crowd. They heard the
key turned.

'My God!' the waiter who had interfered cried, his face white, 'there will be murder done!'
And he sped away for the kitchen poker that he might break in the door. He had known such a
case before. Another ran to seek the gentleman upstairs. The others drew round the door and
stooped to listen; a moment, and the sound they feared reached their ears--the grinding of
steel, the trampling of leaping feet, now a yell and now a taunting laugh. The sounds were
too much for one of the men who heard them: he beat on the door with his fists. 'Gentlemen!'
he cried, his voice quavering, 'for the Lord's sake don't, gentlemen! Don't!' On which one
of the women who had shrieked fell on the floor in wild hysterics.

That brought to a pitch the horror without the room, where lights shone on frightened faces
and huddled forms. In the height of it the landlord and Sir George appeared. The woman's screams
were so violent that it was rather from the attitude of the group about the door than from
anything they could hear that the two took in the position. The instant they did so Sir George
signed to the servants to stand aside, and drew back to hurl himself against the door. A cry
that the poker was come, and that with this they could burst the lock with ease, stayed him
just in time--and fortunately; for as they went to adjust the point of the tool between the
lock and the jamb the nearest man cried 'Hush!' and raised his hand, the door creaked, and
in a moment opened inwards. On the threshold, supporting himself by the door, stood Mr. Dunborough,
his face damp and pale, his eyes furtive and full of a strange horror. He looked at Sir George.

'He's got it!' he muttered in a hoarse whisper. 'You had better--get a surgeon. You'll bear
me out,' he continued, looking round eagerly, 'he began it. He flung it in my face. By God--it
may go near to hanging me!'

Sir George and the landlord pushed by him and went in. The room was lighted by one candle,
burning smokily on the high mantelshelf; the other lay overturned and extinguished in the folds
of a tablecloth which had been dragged to the floor. On a wooden chair beside the bare table
sat Mr. Pomeroy, huddled chin to breast, his left hand pressed to his side, his right still
resting on the hilt of his small-sword. His face was the colour of chalk, and a little froth
stood on his lips; but his eyes, turned slightly upwards, still followed his rival with a grim
fixed stare. Sir George marked the crimson stain on his lips, and raising his hand for silence--for
the servants were beginning to crowd in with exclamations of horror--knelt down beside the
chair, ready to support him in case of need. "They are fetching a surgeon," he said. "He will
be here in a minute."

Mr. Pomeroy's eyes left the door, through which Dunborough had disappeared, and for a few seconds
they dwelt unwinking on Sir George: but for a while he said nothing. At length, "Too late,"
he whispered. "It was my boots--I slipped, or I'd have gone through him. I'm done. Pay Tamplin--five
pounds I owe him."

Soane saw that it was only a matter of minutes, and he signed to the landlord, who was beginning
to lament, to be silent.

"If you can tell me where the girl is--in two words," he said gently, "will you try to do so?"

The dying man's eyes roved over the ring of faces. "I don't know," he whispered, so faintly
that Soane had to bring his ear very near his lips. "The parson--was to have got her to Tamplin's--for
me. He put her in the wrong carriage. He's paid. And--I'm paid."

With the last word the small-sword fell clinking to the floor. The dying man drew himself up,
and seemed to press his hand more and more tightly to his side. For a brief second a look of
horror--as if the consciousness of his position dawned on his brain--awoke in his eyes. Then
he beat it down. "Tamplin's staunch," he muttered. "I must stand by Tamplin. I owe--pay him
five pounds for--"

A gush of blood stopped his utterance. He gasped and with a groan but no articulate word fell
forward in Soane's arms. Bully Pomeroy had lost his last stake!

Not this time the spare thousands the old squire, good saving man, had left on bond and mortgage;
not this time the copious thousands he had raised himself for spendthrift uses: nor the old
oaks his great-grand-sire had planted to celebrate His Majesty's glorious Restoration: nor
the Lelys and Knellers that great-grand-sire's son, shrewd old connoisseur, commissioned: not
this time the few hundreds hardly squeezed of late from charge and jointure, or wrung from
the unwilling hands of friends--but life; life, and who shall say what besides life!

CHAPTER XXXIII

IN THE CARRIAGE

Mr. Thomasson was mistaken in supposing that it was the jerk, caused by the horses' start,
which drew from Julia the scream he heard as the carriage bounded forward and whirled into
the night. The girl, indeed, was in no mood to be lightly scared; she had gone through too
much. But as, believing herself alone, she sank back on the seat--at the moment that the horses
plunged forward--her hand, extended to save herself, touched another hand: and the sudden contact
in the dark, conveying to her the certainty that she had a companion, with all the possibilities
the fact conjured up, more than excused an involuntary cry.

The answer, as she recoiled, expecting the worst, was a sound between a sigh and a grunt; followed
by silence. The coachman had got the horses in hand again, and was driving slowly; perhaps
he expected to be stopped. She sat as far into her corner as she could, listening and staring,
enraged rather than frightened. The lamps shed no light into the interior of the carriage,
she had to trust entirely to her ears; and, gradually, while she sat shuddering, awaiting she
knew not what, there stole on her senses, mingling with the roll of the wheels, a sound the
least expected in the world--a snore!

Irritated, puzzled, she stretched out a hand and touched a sleeve, a man's sleeve; and at that,
remembering how she had sat and wasted fears on Mr. Thomasson before she knew who he was, she
gave herself entirely to anger. 'Who is it?' she cried sharply. 'What are you doing here?'

The snoring ceased, the man turned himself in his corner. 'Are we there?' he murmured drowsily;
and, before she could answer, was asleep again.

The absurdity of the position pricked her. Was she always to be travelling in dark carriages
beside men who mocked her? In her impatience she shook the man violently. 'Who are you? What
are you doing here?' she cried again.

The unseen roused himself. 'Eh?' he exclaimed. 'Who--who spoke? I--oh, dear, dear, I must have
been dreaming. I thought I heard--'

'Mr. Fishwick!' she cried; her voice breaking between tears and laughter. 'Mr. Fishwick!' And
she stretched out her hands, and found his, and shook and held them in her joy.

The lawyer heard and felt; but, newly roused from sleep, unable to see her, unable to understand
how she came to be by his side in the post-chaise, he shrank from her. He was dumbfounded.
His mind ran on ghosts and voices; and he was not to be satisfied until he had stopped the
carriage, and with trembling fingers brought a lamp, that he might see her with his eyes. That
done, the little attorney fairly wept for joy.

'That I should be the one to find you!' he cried. 'That I should be the one to bring you back!
Even now I can hardly believe that you are here! Where have you been, child? Lord bless us,
we have seen strange things!'

'It was Mr. Dunborough!' she cried with indignation.

'I know, I know,' he said. 'He is behind with Sir George Soane. Sir George and I followed you.
We met him, and Sir George compelled him to accompany us.'

'Compelled him?' she said.

'Ay, with a pistol to his head,' the lawyer answered; and chuckled and leapt in his seat--for
he had re-entered the carriage--at the remembrance. 'Oh, Lord, I declare I have lived a year
in the last two days. And to think that I should be the one to bring you back!' he repeated.
'To bring you back! But there, what happened to you? I know that they set you down in the road.
We learned that at Bristol this afternoon from the villains who carried you off.'

She told him how they had found. Mr. Pomeroy's house, and taken shelter there, and--

'You have been there until now?' he said in amazement. 'At a gentleman's house? But did you
not think, child, that we should be anxious? Were there no horses? No servants? Didn't you
think of sending word to Marlborough?'

'He was a villain,' she answered, shuddering. Brave as she was, Mr. Pomeroy had succeeded in
frightening her. 'He would not let me go. And if Mr. Thomasson had not stolen the key of the
room and released me, and brought me to the gate to-night, and put me in with you--'

'But how did he know that I was passing?' Mr. Fishwick cried, thrusting back his wig and rubbing
his head in perplexity. He could not yet believe that it was chance and only chance had brought
them together.

And she was equally ignorant. 'I don't know,' she said. 'He only told me--that he would have
a carriage waiting at the gate.'

'And why did he not come with you?'

'He said--I think he said he was under obligations to Mr. Pomeroy.'

'Pomeroy? Pomeroy?' the lawyer repeated slowly. 'But sure, my dear, if he was a villain, still,
having the clergyman with you you should have been safe. This Mr. Pomeroy was not in the same
case as Mr. Dunborough. He could not have been deep in love after knowing you a dozen hours.'

'I think,' she said, but mechanically, as if her mind ran on something else, 'that he knew
who I was, and wished to make me marry him.'

'Who you were!' Mr. Fishwick repeated; and--and he groaned.

The sudden check was strange, and Julia should have remarked it. But she did not; and after
a short silence, 'How could he know?' Mr. Fishwick asked faintly.

'I don't know,' she answered, in the same absent manner. Then with an effort which was apparent
in her tone, 'Lord Almeric Doyley was there,' she said. 'He was there too.'

'Ah!' the lawyer replied, accepting the fact with remarkable apathy. Perhaps his thoughts also
were far away. 'He was there, was he?'

'Yes,' she said. 'He was there, and he--' then, in a changed tone, 'Did you say that Sir George
was behind us?'

'He should be,' he answered; and, occupied as she was with her own trouble, she was struck
with the gloom of the attorney's tone. 'We settled,' he continued, 'as soon as we learned where
the men had left you, that I should start for Calne and make inquiries there, and they should
start an hour later for Chippenham and do the same there. Which reminds me that we should be
nearing Calne. You would like to rest there?'

'I would rather go forward to Marlborough,' she answered feverishly, 'if you could send to
Chippenham to tell them I am safe? I would rather go back at once, and quietly.'

'To be sure,' he said, patting her hand. 'To be sure, to be sure,' he repeated, his voice shaking
as if he wrestled with some emotion. 'You'll he glad to be with--with your mother.'

Julia wondered a little at his tone, but in the main he had described her feelings. She had
gone through so many things that, courageous as she was, she longed for rest and a little time
to think. She assented in silence therefore, and, wonderful to relate, he fell silent too,
and remained so until they reached Calne. There the inn was roused; a messenger was despatched
to Chippenham; and while a relay of horses was prepared he made her enter the house and eat
and drink. Had he stayed at that, and preserved when he re-entered the carriage the discreet
silence he had maintained before, it is probable that she would have fallen asleep in sheer
weariness, and deferred to the calmer hours of the morning the problem that occupied her. But
as they settled themselves in their corners, and the carriage rolled out of the town, the attorney
muttered that he did not doubt Sir George would be at Marlborough to breakfast. This set the
girl's mind running. She moved restlessly, and presently, 'When did you hear what had happened
to me?' she asked.

'A few minutes after you were carried off,' he answered; 'but until Sir George appeared, a
quarter of an hour later, nothing was done.'

'And he started in pursuit?' To hear it gave her a delicious thrill between pain and pleasure.

'Well, at first, to confess the truth,' Mr. Fishwick answered humbly, 'I thought it was his
doing, and--'

'You did?' she cried in surprise.

'Yes, I did; even I did. And until we met Mr. Dunborough, and Sir George got the truth from
him--I had no certainty. More shame to me!'

She bit her lips to keep back the confession that rose to them, and for a little while was
silent. Then, to his astonishment, 'Will he ever forgive me?' she cried, her voice tremulous.
'How shall I tell him? I was mad--I must have been mad.'

'My dear child,' the attorney answered in alarm, 'compose yourself. What is it? What is the
matter?'

'I, too thought it was he! I, even I. I thought that he wanted to rid himself of me,' she cried,
pouring forth her confession in shame and abasement. 'There! I can hardly bear to tell you
in the dark, and how shall I tell him in the light?'

'Tut-tut!' Mr. Fishwick answered. 'What need to tell any one? Thoughts are free.'

'Oh, but'--she laughed hysterically--'I was not free, and I--what do you think I did?' She
was growing more and more excited.

'Tut-tut!' the lawyer said. 'What matter?'

'I promised--to marry some one else.'

'Good Lord!' he said. The words were forced from him.

'Some one else!' she repeated. 'I was asked to be my lady, and it tempted me! Think! It tempted
me,' she continued with a second laugh, bitterly contemptuous. 'Oh, what a worm--what a thing
I am! It tempted me. To be my lady, and to have my jewels, and to go to Ranelagh and the masquerades!
To have my box at the King's House and my frolic in the pit! And my woman as ugly as I liked--if
he might have my lips! Think of it, think of it! That anyone should be so low! Or no, no, no!'
she cried in a different tone. 'Don't believe me! I am not that! I am not so vile! But I thought
he had tricked me, I thought he had cheated me, I thought that this was his work, and I was
mad! I think I was mad!'

'Dear, dear,' Mr. Fishwick said rubbing his head. His tone was sympathetic; yet, strange to
relate, there was no real smack of sorrow in it. Nay, an acute ear might have caught a note
of relief, of hope, almost of eagerness. 'Dear, dear, to be sure!' he continued; 'I suppose--it
was Lord Almeric Doyley, the nobleman I saw at Oxford?'

'Yes!'

'And you don't know what to do, child?'

'To do?' she exclaimed.

'Which--I mean which you shall accept. Really,' Mr. Fishwick continued, his brain succumbing
to a kind of vertigo as he caught himself balancing the pretensions of Sir George and Lord
Almeric, 'it is a very remarkable position for any young lady to enjoy, however born. Such
a choice--'

'Choice!' she cried fiercely, out of the darkness. 'There is no choice. Don't you understand?
I told him No, no, no, a thousand times No!'

Mr. Fishwick sighed. 'But I understood you to say,' he answered meekly, 'that you did not know
what to do.'

'How to tell Sir George! How to tell him.'

Mr. Fishwick was silent a moment. Then he said earnestly, 'I would not tell him. Take my advice,
child. No harm has been done. You said No to the other.'

'I said Yes,' she retorted.

'But I thought--'

'And then I said No,' she cried, between tears and foolish laughter. 'Cannot you understand?'

Mr. Fishwick could not; but, 'Anyway, do not tell him,' he said. 'There is no need, and before
marriage men think much of that at which they laugh afterwards.'

'And much of a woman of whom they think nothing afterwards,' she answered.

'Yet do not tell him,' he pleaded. From the sound of his voice she knew that he was leaning
forward. 'Or at least wait. Take the advice of one older than you, who knows the world, and wait.'

'And talk to him, listen to him, smile on his suit with a lie in my heart? Never?' she cried.
Then with a new strange pride, a faint touch of stateliness in her tone, 'You forget who I
am, Mr. Fishwick,' she said. 'I am as much a Soane as he is, and it becomes me to--to remember
that. Believe me, I would far rather resign all hope of entering his house, though I love him,
than enter it with a secret in my heart.'

Mr. Fishwick groaned. He told himself that this would be the last straw. This would give Sir
George the handle he needed. She would never enter that house.

'I have not been true to him,' she said. 'But I will be true now.'

'The truth is--is very costly,' Mr. Fishwick murmured almost under his breath. 'I don't know
that poor people can always afford it, child.'

'For shame!' she cried hotly. 'For shame! But there,' she continued, 'I know you do not mean
it. I know that what you bid me do you would not do yourself. Would you have sold my cause,
would you have hidden the truth for thousands? If Sir George had come to you to bribe you,
would you have taken anything? Any sum, however large? I know you would not. My life on it,
you would not. You are an honest man,' she cried warmly.

The honest man was silent awhile. Presently he looked out of the carriage. The moon had risen
over Savernake; by its light he saw that they were passing Manton village. In the vale on the
right the tower of Preshute Church, lifting its head from a dark bower of trees, spoke a solemn
language, seconding hers. 'God bless you!' he said in a low voice. 'God bless you.'

A minute later the horses swerved to the right, and half a dozen lights keeping vigil in the
Castle Inn gleamed out along the dark front. The post-chaise rolled across the open, and drew
up before the door. Julia's strange journey was over. Its stages, sombre in the retrospect,
rose before her as she stepped from the carriage: yet, had she known all, the memories at which
she shuddered would have worn a darker hue. But it was not until a late hour of the following
morning that even the lawyer heard what had happened at Chippenham.

CHAPTEK XXXIV

BAD NEWS

The attorney entered the Mastersons' room a little before eleven next morning; Julia was there,
and Mrs. Masterson. The latter on seeing him held up her hands in dismay. 'Lord's wakes, Mr.
Fishwick!' the good woman cried, 'why, you are the ghost of yourself! Adventuring does not
suit you, that's certain. But I don't wonder. I am sure I have not slept a wink these three
nights that I have not dreamt of Bessy Canning and that horrid old Squires; which, she did
it without a doubt. Don't go to say you've bad news this morning.'

Certain it was that Mr. Fishwick looked woefully depressed. The night's sleep, which had restored
the roses to Julia's cheeks and the light to her eyes, had done nothing for him; or perhaps
he had not slept. His eyes avoided the girl's look of inquiry. 'I've no news this morning,'
he said awkwardly. 'And yet I have news.'

'Bad?' the girl said, nodding her comprehension; and her colour slowly faded.

'Bad,' he said gravely, looking down at the table.

Julia took her fostermother's hand in hers, and patted it; they were sitting side by side.
The elder woman, whose face was still furrowed by the tears she had shed in her bereavement,
began to tremble. 'Tell us,' the girl said bravely. 'What is it?'

'God help me,' Mr. Fishwick answered, his face quivering. 'I don't know how I shall tell you.
I don't indeed. But I must.' Then, in a voice harsh with pain, 'Child, I have made a mistake,'
he cried. 'I am wrong, I was wrong, I have been wrong from the beginning. God help me! And
God help us all!'

The elder woman broke into frightened weeping. The younger grew pale and paler: grew presently
white to the lips. Still her eyes met his, and did not flinch. 'Is it--about our case?' she
whispered.

'Yes! Oh, my dear, will you ever forgive me?'

'About my birth?'

He nodded.

'I am not Julia Soane? Is that it?'

He nodded again.

'Not a Soane--at all?'

'No; God forgive me, no!'

She continued to hold the weeping woman's hand in hers, and to look at him; but for a long
minute she seemed not even to breathe. Then in a voice that, notwithstanding the effort she
made, sounded harsh in his ears, 'Tell me all,' she muttered. 'I suppose--you have found something!'

'I have,' he said. He looked old, and worn, and shabby; and was at once the surest and the
saddest corroboration of his own tidings. 'Two days ago I found, by accident, in a church at
Bristol, the death certificate of the--of the child.'

'Julia Soane?'

'Yes.'

'But then--who am I?' she asked, her eyes growing wild: the world was turning, turning with her.

'Her husband,' he answered, nodding towards Mrs. Masterson, 'adopted a child in place of the
dead one, and said nothing. Whether he intended to pass it off for the child entrusted to him,
I don't know. He never made any attempt to do so. Perhaps,' the lawyer continued drearily,
'he had it in his mind, and when the time came his heart failed him.'

'And I am that child?'

Mr. Fishwick looked away guiltily, passing his tongue over his lips. He was the picture of
shame and remorse.

'Yes,' he said. 'Your father and mother were French. He was a teacher of French at Bristol,
his wife French from Canterbury. No relations are known.'

'My name?' she asked, smiling piteously.

'Paré,' he said, spelling it. And he added, 'They call it Parry.'

She looked round the room in a kind of terror, not unmixed with wonder. To that room they had
retired to review their plans on their first arrival at the Castle Inn--when all smiled on
them. Thither they had fled for refuge after the brush with Lady Dunborough and the rencontre
with Sir George. To that room she had betaken herself in the first flush and triumph of Sir
George's suit; and there, surrounded by the same objects on which she now gazed, she had sat,
rapt in rosy visions, through the livelong day preceding her abduction. Then she had been a
gentlewoman, an heiress, the bride in prospect of a gallant gentleman. Now?

What wonder that, as she looked round in dumb misery, recognising these things, her eyes grew
wild again; or that the shrinking lawyer expected an outburst. It came, but from another quarter.
The old woman rose and trembling pointed a palsied finger at him. 'Yo' eat your words!' she
said. 'Yo' eat your words and seem to like them. But didn't yo' tell me no farther back than
this day five weeks that the law was clear? Didn't yo' tell me it was certain? Yo' tell me that!'

'I did! God forgive me,' Mr. Fishwick murmured from the depths of his abasement.

'Didn't yo' tell me fifty times, and fifty times to that, that the case was clear?' the old
woman continued relentlessly. 'That there were thousands and thousands to be had for the asking?
And her right besides, that no one could cheat her of, no more than me of the things my man
left me?'

'I did, God forgive me!' the lawyer said.

'But yo' did cheat me!' she continued with quavering insistence, her withered face faintly
pink. 'Where is the home yo' ha' broken up? Where are the things my man left me? Where's the
bit that should ha' kept me from the parish? Where's the fifty-two pounds yo' sold all for
and ha' spent on us, living where's no place for us, at our betters' table? Yo' ha' broken
my heart! Yo' ha' laid up sorrow and suffering for the girl that is dearer to me than my heart.
Yo' ha' done all that, and yo' can come to me smoothly, and tell me yo' ha' made a mistake.
Yo' are a rogue, and, what maybe is worse, I mistrust me yo' are a fool!'

'Mother! mother!' the girl cried.

'He is a fool!' the old woman repeated, eyeing him with a dreadful sternness. 'Or he would
ha' kept his mistake to himself. Who knows of it? Or why should he be telling them? 'Tis for
them to find out, not for him! Yo' call yourself a lawyer? Yo' are a fool!' And she sat down
in a palsy of senile passion. 'Yo' are a fool! And yo' ha' ruined us!'

Mr. Fishwick groaned, but made no reply. He had not the spirit to defend himself. But Julia,
as if all through which she had gone since the day of her reputed father's death had led her
to this point, only that she might show the stuff of which she was wrought, rose to the emergency.

'Mother,' she said firmly, her hand resting on the older woman's shoulder, 'you are wrong--you
are quite wrong. He would have ruined us indeed, he would have ruined us hopelessly and for
ever, if he had kept silence! He has never been so good a friend to us as he has shown himself
to-day, and I thank him for his courage. And I honour him!' She held out her hand to Mr. Fishwick,
who having pressed it, his face working ominously, retired to the window.

'But, my deary, what will yo' do?' Mrs. Masterson cried peevishly. 'He ha' ruined us!'

'What I should have done if we had never made this mistake,' Julia answered bravely; though
her lips trembled and her face was white, and in her heart she knew that hers was but a mockery
of courage, that must fail her the moment she was alone. 'We are but fifty pounds worse than
we were.'

'Fifty pounds!' the old woman cried aghast. 'Yo' talk easily of fifty pounds. And, Lord knows,
it is soon spent here. But where will yo' get another?'

'Well, well,' the girl answered patiently, 'that is true. Yet we must make the best of it.
Let us make the best of it,' she continued, appealing to them bravely, yet with tears in her
voice. 'We are all losers together. Let us bear it together. I have lost most,' she continued,
her voice trembling. Fifty pounds? Oh, God! what was fifty pounds to what she had lost. 'But
perhaps I deserve it. I was too ready to leave you, mother. I was too ready to--to take up
with new things and--and richer things, and forget those who had been kin to me and kind to
me all my life. Perhaps this is my punishment. You have lost your all, but that we will get
again. And our friend here--he, too, has lost.'

Mr. Fishwick, standing, dogged and downcast, by the window, did not say what he had lost, but
his thoughts went to his old mother at Wallingford and the empty stocking, and the weekly letters
he had sent her for a month past, letters full of his golden prospects, and the great case
of Soane v. Soane, and the grand things that were to come of it. What a home-coming was now
in store for him, his last guinea spent, his hopes wrecked, and Wallingford to be faced!

There was a brief silence. Mrs. Masterson sobbed querulously, or now and again uttered a wailing
complaint: the other two stood sank in bitter retrospect. Presently, 'What must we do?' Julia
asked in a faint voice.' I mean, what step must we take? Will you let them know?'

'I will see them,' Mr. Fishwick answered, wincing at the note of pain in her voice. 'I--I was
sent for this morning, for twelve o'clock. It is a quarter to eleven now.'

She looked at him, startled, a spot of red in each cheek. 'We must go away,' she said hurriedly,
'while we have money. Can we do better than return to Oxford?'

The attorney felt sure that at the worst Sir George would do something for her: that Mrs. Masterson
need not lament for her fifty pounds. But he had the delicacy to ignore this. 'I don't know,'
he said mournfully. 'I dare not advise. You'd be sorry, Miss Julia--any one would be sorry
who knew what I have gone through. I've suffered--I can't tell you what I have suffered--the
last twenty-four hours! I shall never have any opinion of myself again. Never!'

Julia sighed. 'We must cut a month out of our lives,' she murmured. But it was something else
she meant--a month out of her heart!

CHAPTER XXXV

DORMITAT HOMERUS

If Julia's return in the middle of the night balked the curiosity of some who would fain have
had her set down at the door that they might enjoy her confusion as she passed through the
portico, it had the advantage, appreciated by others, of leaving room for conjecture. Before
breakfast her return was known from, one end of the Castle Inn to the other; within half an
hour a score had private information. Sir George had brought her back, after marrying her at
Salisbury. The attorney had brought her back, and both were in custody, charged with stealing
Sir George's title-deeds. Mr. Thomasson had brought her back; he had wedded her at Calne, the
reverend gentleman himself performing the ceremony with a curtain-ring at a quarter before
midnight, in the presence of two chambermaids, in a room hung with drab moreen. Sir George's
servant had brought her back; he was the rogue in the play; it was Lady Harriet Wentworth and
footman Sturgeon over again. She had come back in a Flemish hat and a white cloth Joseph with
black facings; she had come back in her night-rail; she had come back in a tabby gauze, with
a lace head and lappets. Nor were there wanting other rumours, of an after-dinner Wilkes-and-Lord-Sandwich
flavour, which we refrain from detailing; but which the Castle Inn, after the mode of the eighteenth
century, discussed with freedom in a mixed company.

Of all these reports and the excitement which they created in an assemblage weary of waiting
on the great man's recovery and in straits for entertainment, the attorney knew nothing until
he set forth to keep the appointment in Lord Chatham's apartments; which, long the object of
desire, now set his teeth on edge. Nor need he have learned much of them then; for he had only
to cross the lobby of the east wing, and was in view of the hall barely three seconds. But,
unluckily, Lady Dunborough, cackling shrewishly with a kindred dowager, caught sight of him
as he passed; and in a trice her old limbs bore her in pursuit. Mr. Fishwick heard his name
called, had the weakness to turn, and too late found that he had fallen into the clutches of
his ancient enemy.

The absence of her son's name from the current rumours had relieved the Viscountess of her
worst fears, and left her free to enjoy herself. Seeing his dismay, 'La, man! I am not going
to eat you!' she cried; for the lawyer, nervous and profoundly dispirited, really shrank before
her. 'So you have brought back your fine madam, I hear? And made an honest woman of her!'

Mr. Fishwick glared at her, but did not answer.

'I knew what would come of pushing out of your place, my lad!' she continued, nodding complacently.
'It wasn't likely she'd behave herself. When the master is away the man will play, and the
maid too. I mind me perfectly of the groom. A saucy fellow and a match for her; 'tis to be
hoped he'll beat some sense into her. Was she tied up at Calne?'

'No!' Mr. Fishwick blurted, wincing under her words; which hurt him a hundred times more sharply
than if the girl had been what he had thought her. Then he might have laughed at the sneer
and the spite that dictated it. Now--something like this all the world would say.

The Viscountess eyed him cunningly, her head on one side. 'Was it at Salisbury, then?' she
cried. 'Wherever 'twas. I hear she had need of haste. Or was it at Bristol? D'you hear me speak
to you, man?' she continued impatiently. 'Out with it.'

'At neither,' he cried.

My lady's eyes sparkled with rage. 'Hoity-toity!' she answered. 'D'you say No to me in that
fashion? I'll thank you to mend your manners, Fishwick, and remember to whom you are speaking.
Hark ye, sirrah, is she Sir George's cousin or is she not?'

'She is not, my lady,' the attorney muttered miserably.

'But she is married?'

'No,' he said; and with that, unable to bear more, he turned to fly.

She caught him by the sleeve. 'Not married?' she cried, grinning with ill-natured glee. 'Not
married? And been of three days with a man! Lord, 'tis a story as bald as Granby! She ought
to be whipped, the hussy! Do you hear? She ought to the Roundhouse, and you with her, sirrah,
for passing her of on us!'

But that was more than the attorney, his awe of the peerage notwithstanding, could put up with.
'God forgive you!' he cried. 'God forgive you, ma'am, your hard heart!'

She was astonished. 'You impudent fellow!' she exclaimed. 'What do you know of God? And how
dare you name Him in the same breath with me? D'you think He'd have people of quality be Methodists
and live as the like of you? God, indeed! Hang your impudence! I say, she should to the Roundhouse--and
you, too, for a vagabond! And so you shall!'

The lawyer shook with rage. 'The less your ladyship talks of the Roundhouse,' he answered,
his voice trembling, 'the better! There's one is in it now who may go farther and fare worse--to
your sorrow, my lady!'

You rogue!' she cried. 'Do you threaten me?'

'I threaten no one,' he answered. 'But your son, Mr. Dunborough, killed a man last night, and
lies in custody at Chippenham at this very time! I say no more, my lady!'

He had said enough. My lady glared; then began to shake in her turn. Yet her spirit was not
easily quelled; 'You lie!' she cried shrilly, the stick, with which she vainly strove to steady
herself, rattling on the floor.' Who dares to say that my son has killed a man?'

'It is known,' the attorney answered.

'Who--who is it?'

'Mr. Pomeroy of Bastwick, a gentleman living near Calne.'

'In a duel! 'Twas in a duel, you lying fool!' she retorted hoarsely. 'You are trying to scare
me! Say 'twas in a duel and I--I'll forgive you.'

'They shut themselves up in a room, and there were no seconds,' the lawyer answered, beginning
to pity her. 'I believe that Mr. Pomeroy gave the provocation, and that may bring your ladyship's
son off. But, on the other hand--'

'On the other hand, what? What?' she muttered.

'Mr. Dunborough had horsewhipped a man that was in the other's company.'

'A man?'

'It was Mr. Thomasson.'

Her ladyship's hands went up. Perhaps she remembered that but for her the tutor would not have
been there. Then 'Sink you! I wish he had flogged you all!' she shrieked, and, turning stiffly,
she went mumbling and cursing down the stairs, the lace lappets of her head trembling, and
her gold-headed cane now thumping the floor, now waving uncertainly in the air.

       *       *       *       *       *

A quarter of an hour earlier, in the apartments for which Mr. Fishwick was bound when her ladyship
intercepted him, two men stood talking at a window. The room was the best in the Castle Inn--a
lofty panelled chamber with a southern aspect looking upon the smooth sward and sweet-briar
hedges of Lady Hertford's terrace, and commanding beyond these a distant view of the wooded
slopes of Savernake. The men spoke in subdued tones, and more than once looked towards the
door of an adjacent room, as if they feared to disturb some one.

'My dear Sir George,' the elder said, after he had listened patiently to a lengthy relation,
in the course of which he took snuff a dozen times, 'your mind is quite made up, I suppose?'

'Absolutely.'

'Well, it is a remarkable series of events; a--most remarkable series,' Dr. Addington answered
with professional gravity. 'And certainly, if the lady is all you paint her--and she seems
to set you young bloods on fire--no ending could well be more satisfactory. With the addition
of a comfortable place in the Stamps or the Pipe Office, if we can take his lordship the right
way--it should do. It should do handsomely. But', with a keen glance at his companion, 'even
without that--you know that he is still far from well?'

'I know that all the world is of one of two opinions,' Sir George answered, smiling. 'The first,
that his lordship ails nothing save politically; the other, that he is at death's door and
will not have it known.'

The physician shrugged his shoulders contemptuously. 'Neither is true,' he said. 'The simple
fact is, he has the gout; and the gout is an odd thing, Sir George, as you'll know one of these
days,' with another sharp glance at his companion. 'It flies here and there, and everywhere.'

'And where is it now?' Soane asked innocently.

'It has gone to his head,' Addington answered, in a tone so studiously jejune that Sir George
glanced at him. The doctor, however, appeared unaware of the look, and merely continued: 'So,
if he does not take things quite as you wish, Sir George, you'll--but here his lordship comes!'

The doctor thought that he had sufficiently prepared Soane for a change in his patron's appearance.
Nevertheless, the younger man was greatly shocked when through the door, obsequiously opened--and
held open while a man might count fifty, so that eye and mind grew expectant--the great statesman,
the People's Minister at length appeared. For the stooping figure that moved to a chair only
by virtue of a servant's arm, and seemed the taller for its feebleness, for dragging legs and
shrunken, frame and features sharpened by illness and darkened by the great peruke it was the
Earl's fashion to wear, he was in a degree prepared. But for the languid expression of the
face that had been so eloquent, for the lacklustre eyes and the dulness of mind that noticed
little and heeded less, he was not prepared; and these were so marked and so unlike the great
minister--

     'A daring pilot in extremity
     Pleased with the danger when the waves went high'

--so unlike the man whose eagle gaze had fluttered Courts and imposed the law on Senates, that
it was only the presence of Lady Chatham, who followed her lord, a book and cushion in her
hands, that repressed the exclamation which rose to Sir George's lips. So complete was the
change indeed that, as far as the Earl was concerned, he might have uttered it! His lordship,
led to the head of the table, sank without a word into the chair placed for him, and propping
his elbow on the table and his head on his hand, groaned aloud.

Lady Chatham compressed her lips with evident annoyance as she took her stand behind her husband's
chair; it was plain from the glance she cast at Soane that she resented the presence of a witness.
Even Dr. Addington, with his professional sang-froid and his knowledge of the invalid's actual
state, was put out of countenance for a moment. Then he signed to Sir George to be silent,
and to the servant to withdraw.

At last Lord Chatham spoke. 'This business?' he said in a hollow voice and without uncovering
his eyes, 'is it to be settled now?'

'If your lordship pleases,' the doctor answered in a subdued tone.

'Sir George Soane is there?'

'Yes.'

'Sir George,' the Earl said with an evident effort, 'I am sorry I cannot receive you better.'

'My lord, as it is I am deeply indebted to your kindness.'

'Dagge finds no flaw in their case,' Lord Chatham continued apathetically. 'Her ladyship has
read his report to me. If Sir George likes to contest the claim, it is his right.'

'I do not propose to do so.'

Sir George had not this time subdued his voice to the doctor's pitch; and the Earl, whose nerves
seemed alive to the slightest sound, winced visibly. 'That is your affair,' he answered querulously.
'At any rate the trustees do not propose to do so.'

Sir George, speaking with more caution, replied that he acquiesced; and then for a few seconds
there was silence in the room, his lordship continuing to sit in the same attitude of profound
melancholy, and the others to look at him with compassion, which they vainly strove to dissemble.
At last, in a voice little above a whisper, the Earl asked if the man was there.

'He waits your lordship's pleasure,' Dr. Addington answered. 'But before he is admitted,' the
physician continued diffidently and with a manifest effort, 'may I say a word, my lord, as
to the position in which this places Sir George Soane?'

'I was told this morning,' Lord Chatham answered, in the same muffled tone, 'that a match had
been arranged between the parties, and that things would remain as they were. It seemed to
me, sir, a prudent arrangement.'

Sir George was about to answer, but Dr. Addington made a sign to him to be silent. 'That is
so,' the physician replied smoothly. 'But your lordship is versed in Sir George Soane's affairs,
and knows that he must now go to his wife almost empty-handed. In these circumstances it has
occurred rather to his friends than to himself, and indeed I speak against his will and by
sufferance only, that--that, in a word, my lord--'

Lord Chatham lowered his hand as Dr. Addington paused. A faint flush darkened his lean aquiline
features, set a moment before in the mould of hopeless depression. 'What?' he said. And he
raised himself sharply in his chair. 'What has occurred to his friends?'

'That some provision might be made for him, my lord.'

'From the public purse?' the Earl cried in a startling tone. 'Is that your meaning, sir?' And,
with the look in his eyes which had been more dreaded by the Rigbys and Dodingtons of his party
than the most scathing rebuke from the lips of another, he fixed the unlucky doctor where he
stood. 'Is that your proposal, sir?' he repeated.

The physician saw too late that he had ventured farther than his interest would support him;
and he quailed. On the other hand, it is possible he had been neither so confident before,
nor was so entirely crushed now, as appeared. 'Well, my lord, it did occur to me,' he stammered,
'as not inconsistent with the public welfare.'

'The public welfare!' the minister cried in biting accents. 'The public plunder, sir, you mean!
It were not inconsistent with that to quarter on the nation as many ruined gentlemen as you
please! But you mistake if you bring the business to me to do--you mistake. I have dispersed
thirteen millions of His Majesty's money in a year, and would have spent as much again and
as much to that, had the affairs of this nation required it; but the gentleman is wrong if
he thinks it has gone to my friends. My hands are clean,' his lordship continued with an expressive
gesture. 'I have said, in another place, none of it sticks to them. Virtute me involvo!' And
then, in a lower tone, but still with a note of austerity in his voice, M rejoice to think,'
he continued, 'that the gentleman was not himself the author of this application. I rejoice
to think that it did not come from him. These things have been done freely; it concerns me
not to deny it; but since I had to do with His Majesty's exchequer, less freely. And that only
concerns me!'

Sir George Soane bit his lip. He felt keenly the humiliation of his position. But it was so
evident that the Earl was not himself--so evident that the tirade to which he had just listened
was one of those outbursts, noble in sentiment, but verging on the impracticable and the ostentatious,
in which Lord Chatham was prone to indulge in his weaker moments, that he felt little inclination
to resent it. Yet to let it pass unnoticed was impossible.

'My lord,' he said firmly, but with respect, 'it is permitted to all to make an application
which the custom of the time has sanctioned. That is the extent of my action--at the highest.
The propriety of granting such requests is another matter and rests with your lordship. I have
nothing to do with that.'

The Earl appeared to be as easily disarmed as he had been lightly aroused. 'Good lad! good
lad!' he muttered. 'Addington is a fool!' Then drowsily, as his head sunk on his hand again,
'The man may enter. I will tell him!'

CHAPTER XXXVI

THE ATTORNEY SPEAKS

It was into an atmosphere highly charged, therefore, in which the lightning had scarcely ceased
to play, and might at any moment dart its fires anew, that Mr. Fishwick was introduced. The
lawyer did not know this; yet it was to be expected that without that knowledge he would bear
himself but ill in the company in which he now found himself. But the task which he had come
to perform raised him above himself; moreover, there is a point of depression at which timidity
ceases, and he had reached this point. Admitted by Dr. Addington, he looked round, bowed stiffly
to the physician, and lowly and with humility to Lord Chatham and her ladyship; then, taking
his stand at the foot of the table, he produced his papers with an air of modest self-possession.

Lord Chatham did not look up, but he saw what was passing. 'We have no need of documents,'
he said in the frigid tone which marked his dealings with all save a very few. 'Your client's
suit is allowed, sir, so far as the trustees are concerned. That is all it boots me to say.'

'I humbly thank your lordship,' the attorney answered, speaking with an air of propriety which
surprised Sir George. 'Yet I have with due submission to crave your lordship's leave to say
somewhat.'

'There is no need,' the Earl answered, 'the claim being allowed, sir.'

'It is on that point, my lord.'

The Earl, his eyes smouldering, looked his displeasure, but controlled himself. 'What is it?'
he said irritably.

'Some days ago, I made a singular discovery, my lord,' the attorney answered sorrowfully. 'I
felt it necessary to communicate it to my client, and I am directed by her to convey it to
your lordship and to all others concerned.' And the lawyer bowed slightly to Sir George Soane.

Lord Chatham raised his head, and for the first time since the attorney's entrance looked at
him with a peevish attention. 'If we are to go into this, Dagge should be here,' he said impatiently.
'Or your lawyer, Sir George.' with a look as fretful in that direction. 'Well, man, what is it?'

'My lord,' Mr. Fish wick answered, 'I desire first to impress upon your lordship and Sir George
Soane that this claim was set on foot in good faith on the part of my client, and on my part;
and, as far as I was concerned, with no desire to promote useless litigation. That was the
position up to Tuesday last, the day on which the lady was forcibly carried off. I repeat,
my lord, that on that day I had no more doubt of the justice of our claim than I have to-day
that the sky is above us. But on Wednesday I happened in a strange way--at Bristol, my lord,
whither but for that abduction I might never have gone in my life--on a discovery, which by
my client's direction I am here to communicate.'

'Do you mean, sir,' the Earl said with sudden acumen, a note of keen surprise in his voice,
'that you are here--to abandon your claim?'

'My client's claim,' the attorney answered with a sorrowful look. 'Yes, my lord, I am.'

For an instant there was profound silence in the room; the astonishment was as deep as it was
general. At last, 'are the papers which were submitted to Mr. Dagge--are they forgeries then?'
the Earl asked.

'No, my lord; the papers are genuine,' the attorney answered. 'But my client, although the
identification seemed to be complete, is not the person indicated in them.' And succinctly,
but with sufficient clearness, the attorney narrated his chance visit to the church, the discovery
of the entry in the register, and the story told by the good woman at the 'Golden Bee.' 'Your
lordship will perceive,' he concluded, 'that, apart from the exchange of the children, the
claim was good. The identification of the infant whom the porter presented to his wife with
the child handed to him by his late master three weeks earlier seemed to be placed beyond doubt
by every argument from probability. But the child was not the child,' he added with a sigh.
And, forgetting for the moment the presence in which he stood, Mr. Fishwick allowed the despondency
he felt to appear in his face and figure.

There was a prolonged silence. 'Sir!' Lord Chatham said at last--Sir George Soane, with his
eyes on the floor and a deep flush on his face, seemed to be thunderstruck by this sudden change
of front--'it appears to me that you are a very honest man! Yet let me ask you. Did it never
occur to you to conceal the fact?'

'Frankly, my lord, it did,' the attorney answered gloomily, 'for a day. Then I remembered a
thing my father used to say to us, "Don't put molasses in the punch!" And I was afraid.'

'Don't put molasses in the punch!' his lordship ejaculated, with a lively expression of astonishment.
'Are you mad, sir?'

'No, my lord and gentlemen,' Mr. Fishwick answered hurriedly.' But it means--don't help Providence,
which can very well help itself. The thing was too big for me, my lord, and my client too honest.
I thought, if it came out afterwards, the last state might be worse than the first. And--I
could not see my way to keep it from her; and that is the truth,' he added candidly.

The statesman nodded. Then,

     'Dissimulare etiam sperasti, perfide tantum
     Posse nefas, tacitusque meam subducere terram?'

he muttered in low yet sonorous tones.

Mr. Fishwick stared. 'I beg your lordship's pardon,' he said. 'I do not quite understand.'

'There is no need. And that is the whole truth, sir, is it?'

'Yes, my lord, it is.'

'Very good. Very good,' Lord Chatham replied, pushing away the papers which the attorney in
the heat of his argument had thrust before him. 'Then there is an end of the matter as far
as the trustees are concerned. Sir George, you have nothing to say, I take it?'

'No, I thank you, my lord--nothing here,' Soane answered vaguely. His face continued to wear
the dark flush which had overspread it a few minutes before. 'This, I need not say, is an absolute
surprise to me,' he added.

'Just so. It is an extraordinary story. Well, good-morning, sir,' his lordship continued, addressing
the attorney. 'I believe you have done your duty. I believe you have behaved very honestly.
You will hear from me.'

Mr. Fishwick knew that he was dismissed, but after a glance aside, which showed him Sir George
standing in a brown study, he lingered. 'If your lordship,' he said desperately, 'could see
your way to do anything--for my client?'

'For your client? Why?' the Earl cried, with a sudden return of his gouty peevishness. 'Why,
sir--why?'

'She has been drawn,' the lawyer muttered 'out of the position in which she lived, by an error,
not her own, my lord.'

'Yours!'

'Yes, my lord.'

'And why drawn?' the Earl continued regarding him severely. 'I will tell you, sir. Because
you were not content to await the result of investigation, but must needs thrust yourself in
the public eye! You must needs assume a position before it was granted! No, sir, I allow you
honest; I allow you to be well-meaning; but your conduct has been indiscreet, and your client
must pay for it. Moreover, I am in the position of a trustee, and can do nothing. You may go, sir.'

After that Mr. Fishwick had no choice but to withdraw. He did so; and a moment later Sir George,
after paying his respects, followed him. Dr. Addington was clear-sighted enough to fear that
his friend had gone after the lawyer, and, as soon as he decently could, he went himself in
pursuit. He was relieved to find Sir George alone, pacing the floor of the room they shared.

The physician took care to hide his real motive and his distrust of Soane's discretion under
a show of heartiness. 'My dear Sir George, I congratulate you!' he cried, shaking the other
effusively by the hand. 'Believe me, 'tis by far the completest way out of the difficulty;
and though I am sorry for the--for the young lady, who seems to have behaved very honestly--well,
time brings its repentances as well as its revenges. It is possible the match would have done
tolerably well, assuming you to be equal in birth and fortune. But even then 'twas a risk;
'twas a risk, my dear sir! And now--'

'It is not to be thought of, I suppose?' Sir George said; and he looked at the other interrogatively.

'Good Lord, no!' the physician answered. 'No, no, no!' he added weightily.

Sir George nodded, and, turning, looked thoughtfully through the window. His face still wore
a flush. 'Yet something must be done for her,' he said in a low voice. 'I can't let her here,
read that.'

Dr. Addington took the open letter the other handed to him, and, eyeing it with a frown while
he fixed his glasses, afterwards proceeded to peruse it.

'Sir,' it ran--it was pitifully short--'when I sought you I deemed myself other than I am.
Were I to seek you now I should be other than I deem myself. We met abruptly, and can part
after the same fashion. This from one who claims to be no more than your well-wisher.--JULIA.'

The doctor laid it down and took a pinch of snuff. 'Good girl!' he muttered. 'Good girl. That--that
confirms me. You must do something for her, Sir George. Has she--how did you get that, by the way?'

'I found it on the table. I made inquiry, and heard that she left Marlboro' an hour gone.'

'For?'

'I could not learn.'

'Good girl! Good girl! Yes, certainly you must do something for her.'

'You think so?' Sir George said, with a sudden queer look at the doctor, 'Even you?'

'Even I! An allowance of--I was going to suggest fifty guineas a year,' Dr. Addington continued
impulsively. 'Now, after reading that letter, I say a hundred. It is not too much, Sir George!
'Fore Gad, it is not too much. But--'

'But what?'

The physician paused to take an elaborate pinch of snuff. 'You'll forgive me,' he answered.
'But before this about her birth came out, I fancied that you were doing, or going about to
do the girl no good. Now, my dear Sir George, I am not strait-laced,' the doctor continued,
dusting the snuff from the lappets of his coat, 'and I know very well what your friend, my
Lord March, would do in the circumstances. And you have lived much, with him, and think yourself,
I dare swear, no better. But you are, my dear sir--you are, though you may not know it. You
are wondering what I am at? Inclined to take offence, eh? Well, she's a good girl, Sir George'--he
tapped the letter, which lay on the table beside him--'too good for that! And you'll not lay
it on your conscience, I hope.'

'I will not,' Sir George said quietly.

'Good lad!' Dr. Addington muttered, in the tone Lord Chatham had used; for it is hard to be
much with the great without trying on their shoes. 'Good lad! Good lad!'

Soane did not appear to notice the tone. 'You think an allowance of a hundred guineas enough?'
he said, and looked at the other.

'I think it very handsome,' the doctor answered. 'D----d handsome.'

'Good!' Sir George rejoined. 'Then she shall have that allowance;' and after staring awhile
at the table he nodded assent to his thoughts and went out.

CHAPTER XXXVII

A HANDSOME ALLOWANCE

The physician might not have deemed his friend so sensible--or so insensible--had he known
that the young man proposed to make the offer of that allowance in person. Nor to Sir George
Soane himself, when he alighted five days later before The George Inn at Wallingford, did the
offer seem the light and easy thing,

     'Of smiles and tears compact,'

it had appeared at Marlborough. He recalled old clashes of wit, and here and there a spark
struck out between them, that, alighting on the flesh, had burned him. Meanwhile the arrival
of so fine a gentleman, travelling in a post-chaise and four, drew a crowd about the inn. To
give the idlers time to disperse, as well as to remove the stains of the road, he entered the
house, and, having bespoken dinner and the best rooms, inquired the way to Mr. Fishwick the
attorney's. By this time his servant had blabbed his name; and the story of the duel at Oxford
being known, with some faint savour of his fashion, the landlord was his most obedient, and
would fain have guided his honour to the place cap in hand.

Rid of him, and informed that the house he sought was neighbour on the farther side, of the
Three Tuns, near the bridge, Sir George strolled down the long clean street that leads past
Blackstone's Church, then in the building, to the river; Sinodun Hill and the Berkshire Downs,
speaking evening peace, behind him. He paused before a dozen neat houses with brass knockers
and painted shutters, and took each in turn for the lawyer's. But when he came to the real
Mr. Fishwick's, and found it a mere cottage, white and decent, but no more than a cottage,
he thought that he was mistaken. Then the name of 'Mr. Peter Fishwick, Attorney-at-Law,' not
in the glory of brass, but painted in white letters on the green door, undeceived him; and,
opening the wicket of the tiny garden, he knocked with the head of his cane on the door.

The appearance of a stately gentleman in a laced coat and a sword, waiting outside Fishwick's,
opened half the doors in the street; but not that one at which Sir George stood. He had to
knock again and again before he heard voices whispering inside. At last a step came tapping
down the bricked passage, a bolt was withdrawn, and an old woman, in a coarse brown dress and
a starched mob, looked out. She betrayed no surprise on seeing so grand a gentleman, but told
his honour, before he could speak, that the lawyer was not at home.

'It is not Mr. Fishwick I want to see,' Sir George answered civilly. Through the brick passage
he had a glimpse, as through a funnel, of green leaves climbing on a tiny treillage, and of
a broken urn on a scrap of sward. 'You have a young lady staying here?' he continued.

The old woman's stiff grey eyebrows grew together. 'No!' she said sharply. 'Nothing of the kind!'

'A Miss Masterson.'

'No' she snapped, her face more and more forbidding. 'We have no Misses here, and no baggages
for fine gentlemen! You have come to the wrong house!' And she tried to shut the door in his face.

He was puzzled and a little affronted; but he set his foot between the door and the post, and
balked her. 'One moment, my good woman,' he said. 'This is Mr. Fishwick's, is it not?'

'Ay, 'tis,' she answered, breathing hard with indignation. 'But if it is him your honour wants
to see, you must come when he is at home. He is not at home to-day.'

'I don't want to see him,' Sir George said. 'I want to speak to the young lady who is staying
here.'

'And I tell you that there is no young lady staying here!' she retorted wrathfully. 'There
is no soul in the house but me and my serving girl, and she's at the wash-tub. It is more like
the Three Tuns you want! There's a flaunting gipsy-girl there if you like--but the less said
about her the better.'

Sir George stood and stared at the woman. At last, on a sudden suspicion, 'Is your servant
from Oxford?' he said.

She seemed to consider him before she answered. 'Well, if she is?' she said grudgingly. 'What
then?'

'Is her name Masterson?'

Again she seemed to hesitate. At last, 'May be and may be not!' she snapped, with a sniff of
contempt.

He saw that it was, and for an instant the hesitation was on his side. Then, 'Let me come in!'
he said abruptly. 'You are doing your son's client little good by this!' And when she had slowly
and grudgingly made way for him to enter, and the door was shut behind him, 'Where is she?'
he asked almost savagely. 'Take me to her!'

The old dame muttered something unintelligible. Then, 'She's in the back part,' she said, 'but
she'll not wish to see you. Don't blame me if she pins a clout to your skirts.'

Yet she moved aside, and the way lay open--down the brick passage. It must be confessed that
for an instant, just one instant, Sir George wavered, his face hot; for the third part of a
second the dread of the ridiculous, the temptation to turn and go as he had come were on him.
Nor need he, for this, forfeit our sympathies, or cease to be a hero. It was the age, be it
remembered, of the artificial. Nature, swathed in perukes and ruffles, powder and patches,
and stifled under a hundred studied airs and grimaces, had much ado to breathe. Yet it did
breathe; and Sir George, after that brief hesitation, did go on. Three steps carried him down
the passage. Another, and the broken urn and tiny treillage brought him up short, but on the
greensward, in the sunlight, with the air of heaven fanning his brow. The garden was a very
duodecimo; a single glance showed him its whole extent--and Julia.

She was not at the wash-tub, as the old lady had said; but on her knees, scouring a step that
led to a side-door, her drugget gown pinned up about her. She raised her head as he appeared,
and met his gaze defiantly, her face flushing red with shame or some kindred feeling. He checked
the exclamation that sprang to his lips; and as she rose to her feet he saluted her with an
easy smile. 'I have found you, child,' he said. 'Did you think you had hidden yourself?'

She met his gaze sullenly. 'You have found me to no purpose,' she said. Her tone matched her look.

The look and the words together awoke an odd pang in his heart. He had seen her arch, pitiful,
wrathful, contemptuous, even kind; but never sullen. The new mood gave him the measure of her
heart; but his tone lost nothing of its airiness. 'I hope not,' he said, 'for we think you
have behaved vastly well in the matter, child. Remarkably well! And that, let me tell you,
is not only my own sentiment, but the opinion of my friends who perfectly approve of the arrangement
I have come to propose. You may accept it, therefore, without the least scruple.'

'Arrangement?' she muttered. Her cheeks, darkly red a moment before, began to fade.

'Yes,' he said. 'I hope you will think it not ungenerous. It will rid you of the need to do
this--sort of thing, and put you--put you in a comfortable position. Of course, you know,'
he continued in a tone of patronage, under which her heart burned if her cheeks did not, 'that
a good deal of water has run under the bridge since we talked in the garden at Marlborough?
That things are changed.'

Her eyelids quivered under the cruel stroke. But her only answer was, 'They are.' Yet she wondered
how and why; for if she had thought herself an heiress, he had not--then.

'You admit it, I am sure?' he persisted.

'Yes,' she answered resolutely.

'And that to--to resume, in fact, the old terms would be--impossible,'

'Quite impossible.' Her tone was as hard as his was easy.

'I thought so,' Sir George continued complacently. 'Still, I could not, of course, leave you
here, child. As I have said, my friends think that something should be done for you; and I
am only too happy to do it. I have consulted them, and we have talked the matter over. By the
way,' with a look round, 'perhaps your mother should be here--Mrs. Masterson, I mean? Is she
in the house?'

'No,' she answered, her face flaming scarlet; for pride had conquered pain. She hated him.
Oh, how she hated him and the hideous dress which in her foolish dream--when, hearing him at
the door, she had looked for something very different--she had hurriedly put on; and the loose
tangle of hair which she had dragged with trembling fingers from its club so that it now hung
sluttishly over her ear. She longed, as she had never longed before, to confront him in all
her beauty; to be able to say to him, 'Choose where you will, can you buy form or face like
this?' Instead she stood before him, prisoned in this shapeless dress, a slattern, a drab,
a thing whereat to curl the lip.

'Well, I am sorry she is not here,' he resumed. 'It would have given a--a kind of legality
to the offer,' he continued with an easy laugh. 'To tell you the truth, the amount was not
fixed by me, but by my friend, Dr. Addington, who interested himself in your behalf. He thought
that an allowance of a hundred guineas a year, child, properly secured, would place you in
comfort, and--and obviate all this,' with a negligent wave of the hand that took in the garden
and the half-scoured stone, 'at the same time,' he added, 'that it would not be unworthy of
the donor.' And he bowed, smiling.

'A hundred guineas?' she said slowly. 'A year?'

'Yes.'

'Properly secured?'

'To be sure, child.'

'On your word?' with a sudden glance at him. 'Of course, I could not ask better security! Surely,
sir, there's but one thing to be said. 'Tis too generous, too handsome!'

'Tut-tut!' he answered, wondering at her way of taking it.

'Far too handsome--seeing that I have no claim on you, Sir George, and have only put you to
great expense.'

'Pooh! Pooh!'

'And--trouble. A vast deal of trouble,' she repeated in an odd tone of raillery, while her
eyes, grown hard and mocking, raked him mercilessly. 'So much for so little! I could not--I
could not accept it. A hundred guineas a year, Sir George, from one in your position to one
in mine, would only lay me open to the tongue of slander. You had better say--fifty.'

'Oh, no!'

'Or--thirty, I am sure thirty were ample! Say thirty guineas a year, dear sir; and leave me
my character.'

'Nonsense,' he answered, a trifle discomfited. Strange, she was seizing her old position. The
weapon he had wrought for her punishment was being turned against himself.

'Or, I don't know that thirty is not too much!' she continued, her eyes unnaturally bright,
her voice keen as a razor.' 'Twould have been enough if offered through your lawyers. But at
your own mouth, Sir George, ten shillings a week should do, and handsomely! Which reminds me--it
was a kind thought to come yourself to see me; I wonder why you did.'

'Well,' he said, 'to be frank, it was Dr. Addington--'

'Oh, Dr. Addington--Dr. Addington suggested it! Because I fancied--it could not give you pleasure
to see me like this?' she continued with a flashing eye, her passion for a brief moment breaking
forth. 'Or to go back a month or two and call me child? Or to speak to me as to your chambermaid?
Or even to give me ten shillings a week?'

'No,' he said gravely; 'perhaps not, my dear.'

She winced and her eyes flashed; but she controlled herself. 'Still, I shall take your ten
shillings a week,' she said. 'And--and is that all? Or is there anything else?'

'Only this,' he said firmly. 'You'll please to remember that the ten shillings a week is of
your own choosing. You'll do me that justice at least. A hundred guineas a year was the allowance
I proposed. And--I bet a guinea you ask for it, my dear, before the year is out!'

She was like a tigress outraged; she writhed under the insult. And yet, because to give vent
to her rage were also to bare her heart to his eyes, she had to restrain herself, and endure
even this with a scarlet cheek. She had thought to shame him by accepting the money he offered;
by accepting it in the barest form. The shame was hers; it did not seem to touch him a whit.
At last, 'You are mistaken,' she answered, in a voice she strove to render steady. 'I shall
not! And now, if there is nothing more, sir--'

'There is,' he said. 'Are you sufficiently punished?'

She looked at him wildly--suddenly, irresistibly compelled to do so by a new tone in his voice.
'Punished!' she stammered, almost inaudibly. 'For what?'

'Do you not know?'

'No,' she muttered, her heart fluttering strangely.

'For this travesty,' he answered; and coolly, as he stood before her, he twitched the sleeve
of her shapeless gown, looking masterfully down at her the while, so that her eyes fell before
his. 'Did you think it kind to me or fair to me,' he continued, almost sternly, 'to make that
difficult, Julia, which my honour required, and which you knew that my honour required? Which,
if I had not come to do, you would have despised me in your heart, and presently with your
lips? Did you think it fair to widen the distance between us by this--this piece of play-acting?
Give me your hand.'

She obeyed, trembling, tongue-tied. He held it an instant, looked at it, and dropped it almost
contemptuously. 'It has not cleaned that step before,' he said. 'Now put up your hair.'

She did so with shaking fingers, her cheeks pale, tears oozing from under her lowered eyelashes.
He devoured her with his gaze.

'Now go to your room,' he said. 'Take off that rag and come to me properly dressed.'

'How?' she whispered.

'As my wife.'

'It is impossible,' she cried with a gesture of despair; 'It is impossible.'

'Is that the answer you would have given me at Manton Corner?'

'Oh no, no!' she cried. 'But everything is changed.'

'Nothing is changed.'

'You said so,' she retorted feverishly. 'You said that it was changed!'

'And have you, too, told the whole truth?' he retorted. 'Go, silly child! If you are determined
to play Pamela to the end, at least you shall play it in other guise than this. 'Tis impossible
to touch you! And yet, if you stand long and tempt me, I vow, sweet, I shall fall!'

To his astonishment she burst into hysterical laughter. 'I thought men wooed--with promises!'
she cried. 'Why don't you tell me I shall have my jewels; and my box at the Opera and the King's
House? And go to Vauxhall and the Masquerades? And have my frolic in the pit with the best?
And keep my own woman as ugly as I please? He did; and I said Yes to him! Why don't you say
the same?'

Sir George was prepared for almost anything, but not for that. His face grew dark. 'He did?
Who did?' he asked grimly, his eyes on her face.

'Lord Almeric! And I said Yes to him--for three hours.'

'Lord Almeric?'

'Yes! For three hours,' she answered with a laugh, half hysterical, half despairing. 'If you
must know, I thought you had carried me off to--to get rid of my claim--and me! I thought--I
thought you had only been playing with me,' she continued, involuntarily betraying by her tone
how deep had been her misery. 'I was only Pamela, and 'twas cheaper, I thought, to send me
to the Plantations than to marry me.'

'And Lord Almeric offered you marriage?'

'I might have been my lady,' she cried in bitter abasement. 'Yes.'

'And you accepted him?'

'Yes! Yes, I accepted him.'

'And then--'Pon honour, ma'am, you are good at surprises. I fear I don't follow the course
of events,' Sir George said icily.

'Then I changed my mind--the same day,' she replied. She was shaking on her feet with emotion;
but in his jealousy he had no pity on her weakness. 'You know, a woman may change her mind
once, Sir George,' she added with a feeble smile.

'I find that I don't know as much about women--as I thought I did,' Sir George answered grimly.
'You seem, ma'am, to be much sought after. One man can hardly hope to own you. Pray have you
any other affairs to confess?'

'I have told you--all,' she said.

His face dark, he hung a moment between love and anger; looking at her. Then, 'Did he kiss
you?' he said between his teeth. 'No!' she cried fiercely.

'You swear it?'

She flashed a look at him.

But he had no mercy. 'Why not?' he persisted, moving a step nearer her. 'You were betrothed
to him. You engaged yourself to him, ma'am. Why not?'

'Because--I did not love him,' she answered so faintly he scarcely heard.

He drew a deep breath. 'May I kiss you?' he said.

She looked long at him, her face quivering between tears and smiles, a great joy dawning in
the depths of her eyes. 'If my lord wills,' she said at last, 'when I have done his bidding
and--and changed--and dressed as--'

But he did not wait.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

THE CLERK OF THE LEASES

When Sir George left the house, an hour later, it happened that the first person he met in
the street was Mr. Fishwick. For a day or two after the conference at the Castle Inn the attorney
had gone about, his ears on the stretch to catch the coming footstep. The air round him quivered
with expectation. Something would happen. Sir George would do something. But with each day
that passed eventless, the hope and expectation grew weaker; the care with which the attorney
avoided his guest's eyes, more marked; until by noon of this day he had made up his mind that
if Sir George came at all, it would be as the wolf and not as the sheep-dog. While Julia, proud
and mute, was resolving that if her lover came she would save him from himself by showing him
how far he had to stoop, the attorney in the sourness of defeat and a barren prospect--for
he scarcely knew which way to turn for a guinea--was resolving that the ewe-lamb must be guarded
and all precautions taken to that end.

When he saw the gentleman issue from his door therefore, still more when Sir George with a
kindly smile held out his hand, a condescension which the attorney could not remember that
he had ever extended to him before, Mr. Fishwick's prudence took fright. 'Too much honoured,
Sir George,' he said, bowing low. Then stiffly, and looking from his visitor to the house and
back again, 'But, pardon me, sir, if there is any matter of business, any offer to be made
to my client, it were well, I think--if it were made through me.'

I thank you,' Sir George answered. 'I do not think that there is anything more to be done.
I have made my offer.'

'Oh!' the lawyer cried.

'And it has been accepted,' Soane continued, smiling at his dismay. 'I believe that you have
been a good friend to your client, Mr. Fishwick. I shall be obliged if you will allow her to
remain under your roof until to-morrow, when she has consented to honour me by becoming my wife.'

'Your wife?' Mr. Fishwick ejaculated, his face a picture of surprise. 'To-morrow?'

'I brought a licence with me,' Sir George answered. 'I am now on my way to secure the services
of a clergyman.'

The tears stood in Mr. Fishwick's eyes, and his voice shook. 'I felicitate you, sir,' he said,
taking off his hat. 'God bless you, sir. Sir George, you are a very noble gentleman!' And then,
remembering himself, he hastened to beg the gentleman's pardon for the liberty he had taken.

Sir George nodded kindly. 'There is a letter for you in the house, Mr. Fishwick,' he said,
'which I was asked to convey to you. For the present, good-day.'

Mr. Fishwick stood and watched him go with eyes wide with astonishment; nor was it until he
had passed from sight that the lawyer turned and went into his house. On a bench in the passage
he found a letter. It was formally directed after the fashion of those days 'To Mr. Peter Fishwick,
Attorney at Law, at Wallingford in Berkshire, by favour of Sir George Soane of Estcombe, Baronet.'

'Lord save us, 'tis an honour,' the attorney muttered. 'What is it?' and with shaking hands
he cut the thread that confined the packet. The letter, penned by Dr. Addington, was to this
effect:

'Sir,--I am directed by the Right Honourable the Earl of Chatham, Lord Keeper of His Majesty's
Privy Seal, to convey to you his lordship's approbation of the conduct displayed by you in
a late transaction. His lordship, acknowledging no higher claim to employment than probity,
nor any more important duty in the disposition of patronage than the reward of integrity, desires
me to intimate that the office of Clerk of the Leases in the Forest of Dean, which is vacant
and has been placed at his command, is open for your acceptance. He is informed that the emoluments
of the office arising from fees amount in good years to five hundred pounds, and in bad years
seldom fall below four hundred.

His lordship has made me the channel of this communication, that I may take the opportunity
of expressing my regret that a misunderstanding at one time arose between us. Accept, sir,
this friendly assurance of a change of sentiment, and allow me to

     'Have the honour to be, sir,
          'Your obedient servant,
               'J. Addington.'

'Clerk of the Leases--in the Forest of Dean--have been known in bad years--to fall to four
hundred!' Mr. Fishwick ejaculated, his eyes like saucers. 'Oh, Lord, I am dreaming! I must
be dreaming! If I don't get my cravat untied, I shall have a lit! Four hundred in bad years!
It's a--oh, it's incredible! They'll not believe it! I vow they'll not believe it!'

But when he turned to seek them, he saw that they had stolen a march on him, that they knew
it already and believed it! Between him and the tiny plot of grass, the urn, and the espalier,
which, still caught the last beams of the setting sun, he surprised two happy faces spying
on his joy--the one beaming through a hundred puckers with a mother's tearful pride; the other,
the most beautiful in the world, and now softened and elevated by every happy emotion.

       *       *       *       *       *

