We came a distance of one hundred and forty miles, getting fresh horses every twenty miles
or so. The morning we left Helena was glorious, and I was half ashamed because I felt so happy
at coming from the town, where so many of my friends were in sorrow, but tried to console myself
with the fact that I had been ordered away by Doctor Gordon. There were many cases of typhoid
fever, and the rheumatic fever that has made Mrs. Sargent so ill has developed into typhoid,
and there is very little hope for her recovery.

The driver would not consent to my sitting on top with him, so I had to ride inside with three
men. They were not rough-looking at all, and their clothes looked clean and rather new, but
gave one the impression that they had been made for other people. Their pale faces told that
they were "tenderfeet," and one could see there was a sad lacking of brains all around.

The road comes across a valley the first ten or twelve miles, and then runs into a magnificent
canon that is sixteen miles long, called Prickly-Pear Canon. As I wrote some time ago, everything
is brought up to this country by enormous ox trains, some coming from the railroad at Corinne,
and some that come from Fort Benton during the Summer, having been brought up by boat on the
Missouri River. In the canons these trains are things to be dreaded. The roads are very narrow
and the grades often long and steep, with immense boulders above and below.

We met one of those trains soon after we entered the canon, and at the top of a grade where
the road was scarcely wider than the stage itself and seemed to be cut into a wall of solid
rock. Just how we were to pass those huge wagons I did not see. But the driver stopped his
horses and two of the men got out, the third stopping on the step and holding on to the stage
so it was impossible for me to get out, unless I went out the other door and stood on the edge
of an awful precipice. The driver looked back, and not seeing me, bawled out, "Where is the
lady?" "Get the lady out!" The man on the step jumped down then, but the driver did not put
his reins down, or move from his seat until he had seen me safely on the ground and had directed
me where to stand.

In the meantime some of the train men had come up, and, as soon as the stage driver was ready,
they proceeded to lift the stage--trunks and all--over and on some rocks and tree tops, and
then the four horses were led around in between other rocks, where it seemed impossible for
them to stand one second. There were three teams to come up, each consisting of about eight
yoke of oxen and three or four wagons. It made me almost ill to see the poor patient oxen straining
and pulling up the grade those huge wagons so heavily loaded. The crunching and groaning of
the wagons, rattling of the enormous cable chains, and the creaking of the heavy yokes of the
oxen were awful sounds, but above all came the yells of the drivers, and the sharp, pistol-like
reports of the long whips that they mercilessly cracked over the backs of the poor beasts.
It was most distressing.

After the wagons had all passed, men came back and set the stage on the road in the same indifferent
way and with very few words. Each man seemed to know just what to do, as though he had been
training for years for the moving of that particular stage. The horses had not stirred and
had paid no attention to the yelling and cracking of whips. While coming through the canons
we must have met six or seven of those trains, every one of which necessitated the setting
in mid-air of the stage coach. It was the same performance always, each man knowing just what
to do, and doing it, too, without loss of time. Not once did the driver put down the reins
until he saw that "the lady" was safely out and it was ever with the same sing-song, "balance
to the right," voice that he asked about me--except once, when he seemed to think more emphasis
was needed, when he made the canon ring by yelling, "Why in hell don't you get the lady out!"
But the lady always got herself out. Rough as he was, I felt intuitively that I had a protector.
We stopped at Rock Creek for dinner, and there he saw that I had the best of everything, and
it was the same at Spitzler's, where we had supper.

We got fresh horses at The Leavings, and when I saw a strange driver on the seat my heart sank,
fearing that from there on I might not have the same protection. We were at a large ranch--sort
of an inn--and just beyond was Frozen Hill. The hill was given that name because a number of
years ago a terrible blizzard struck some companies of infantry while on it, and before they
could get to the valley below, or to a place of shelter, one half of the men were more or less
frozen--some losing legs, some arms. They had been marching in thin clothing that was more
or less damp from perspiration, as the day had been excessively hot. These blizzards are so
fierce and wholly blinding, it is unsafe to move a step if caught out in one on the plains,
and the troops probably lost their bearings as soon as the storm struck them.

It was almost dark when we got in the stage to go on, and I thought it rather queer that the
driver should have asked us to go to the corral, instead of his driving around to the ranch
for us. Very soon we were seated, but we did not start, and there seemed to be something wrong,
judging by the way the stage was being jerked, and one could feel, too, that the brake was
on. One by one those men got out, and just as the last one stepped down on one side the heads
of two cream-colored horses appeared at the open door on the other side, their big troubled
eyes looking straight at me.

During my life on the frontier I have seen enough of native horses to know that when a pair
of excited mustang leaders try to get inside a stage, it is time for one to get out, so I got
out! One of those men passengers instantly called to me, "You stay in there!" I asked, "Why?"
"Because it is perfectly safe," said a second man. I was very indignant at being spoken to
in this way and turned my back to them. The driver got the leaders in position, and then looking
around, said to me that when the balky wheelers once started they would run up the hill "like
the devil," and I would surely be left unless I was inside the stage.

I knew that he was telling the truth, and if he had been the first man to tell me to get in
the coach I would have done so at once, but it so happened that he was the fourth, and by that
time I was beginning to feel abused. It was bad enough to have to obey just one man, when at
home, and then to have four strange men--three of them idiots, too--suddenly take upon themselves
to order me around was not to be endured. I had started on the trip with the expectation of
taking care of myself, and still felt competent to do so. Perhaps I was very tired, and perhaps
I was very cross. At all events I told the driver I would not get in--that if I was left I
would go back to the ranch. So I stayed outside, taking great care, however, to stand close
to the stage door.

The instant I heard the loosening of the brake I jumped up on the step, and catching a firm
hold each side of the door, was about to step in when one of those men passengers grabbed my
arm and tried to jerk me back, so he could get in ahead of me! It was a dreadful thing for
anyone to do, for if my hands and arms had not been unusually strong from riding hard-mouthed
horses, I would undoubtedly have been thrown underneath the big wheels and horribly crushed,
for the four horses were going at a terrific gait, and the jerky was swaying like a live thing.
As it was, anger and indignation gave me extra strength and I scrambled inside with nothing
more serious happening than a bruised head. But that man! He pushed in back of me and, not
knowing the nice little ways of jerkies, was pitched forward to the floor with an awful thud.
But after a second or so he pulled himself up on his seat, which was opposite mine, and there
we two sat in silence and in darkness. I noticed the next morning that there was a big bruise
on one side of his face, at the sight of which I rejoiced very much.

It was some distance this side of the hill when the driver stopped his horses and waited for
the two men who had been left. They seemed much exhausted when they came up, but found sufficient
breath to abuse the driver for having left them; but he at once roared out, "Get in, I tell
you, or I'll leave you sure enough!" That settled matters, and we started on again. Very soon
those men fell asleep and rolled off their seats to the floor, where they snored and had bad
dreams. I was jammed in a corner without mercy, and of course did not sleep one second during
the long wretched night. Twice we stopped for fresh horses, and at both places I walked about
a little to rest my cramped feet and limbs. At breakfast the next morning I asked the driver
to let me ride on top with him, which he consented to, and from there on to Benton I had peace
and fresh air--the glorious air of Montana.

Yesterday--the day after I got here--I was positively ill from the awful shaking up, mental
as well as physical, I received on that stage ride. We reached Benton at eleven. Faye was at
the hotel with an ambulance when the stage drove up, and it was amusing to look at the faces
of those men when they saw Faye in his uniform, and the government outfit. We started for camp
at once, and left them standing on the hotel porch watching us as we drove down the street.
It is a pity that such men cannot be compelled to serve at least one enlistment in the Army,
and be drilled into something that resembles a real man. But perhaps recruiting officers would
not accept them.

FORT SHAW, MONTANA TERRITORY, October, 1878.

MY stay at the little town of Sun River Crossing was short, for when I arrived there the other
day in the stage from Benton, I found a note awaiting me from Mrs. Bourke, saying that I must
come right on to Fort Shaw, so I got back in the stage and came to the post, a distance of
five miles, where General Bourke was on the lookout for me. He is in command of the regiment
as well as the post, as Colonel Fitz-James is still in Europe. Of course regimental headquarters
and the band are here, which makes the garrison seem very lively to me. The band is out at
guard mounting every pleasant morning, and each Friday evening there is a fine concert in the
hall by the orchestra, after which we have a little dance. The sun shines every day, but the
air is cool and crisp and one feels that ice and snow are not very far off.

The order for the two companies on the Marias to return to the Milk River country was most
unexpected. That old villain Sitting Bull, chief of the Sioux Indians, made an official complaint
to the "Great Father" that the half-breeds were on land that belonged to his people, and were
killing buffalo that were theirs also. So the companies have been sent up to arrest the half-breeds
and conduct them to Fort Belknap, and to break up their villages and burn their cabins. The
officers disliked the prospect of doing all this very much, for there must be many women and
little children among them. Just how long it will take no one can tell, but probably three
or four weeks.

And while Faye is away I am staying with General and Mrs. Bourke. I cannot have a house until
he comes, for quarters cannot be assigned to an officer until he has reported for duty at a
post. There are two companies of the old garrison here still, and this has caused much doubling
up among the lieutenants--that is, assigning one set of quarters to two officers--but it has
been arranged so we can be by ourselves. Four rooms at one end of the hospital have been cut
off from the hospital proper by a heavy partition that has been put up at the end of the long
corridor, and these rooms are now being calcimined and painted. They were originally intended
for the contract surgeon. We will have our own little porch and entrance hall and a nice yard
back of the kitchen. It will all be so much more private and comfortable in every way than
it could possibly have been in quarters with another family.

It is delightful to be in a nicely furnished, well-regulated house once more. The buildings
are all made of adobe, and the officers' quarters have low, broad porches in front, and remind
me a little of the houses at Fort Lyon, only of course these are larger and have more rooms.
There are nice front yards, and on either side of the officers' walk is a row of beautiful
cottonwood trees that form a complete arch. They are watered by an acequia that brings water
from Sun River several miles above the post. The post is built along the banks of that river
but I do not see from what it derived its name, for the water is muddy all the time. The country
about here is rather rolling, but there are two large buttes--one called Square Butte that
is really grand, and the other is Crown Butte. The drives up and down the river are lovely,
and I think that Bettie and I will soon have many pleasant mornings together on these roads.
After the slow dignified drives I am taking almost every day, I wonder how her skittish, affected
ways will seem to me!

I am so glad to be with the regiment again--that is, with old friends, although seeing them
in a garrison up in the Rocky Mountains is very different from the life in a large city in
the far South! Four companies are still at Fort Missoula, where the major of the regiment is
in command. Our commanding officer and his wife were there also during the winter, therefore
those of us who were at Helena and Camp Baker, feel that we must entertain them in some way.
Consequently, now that everyone is settled, the dining and wining has begun. Almost every day
there is a dinner or card party given in their honor, and several very delightful luncheons
have been given. And then the members of the old garrison, according to army etiquette, have
to entertain those that have just come, so altogether we are very gay. The dinners are usually
quite elegant, formal affairs, beautifully served with dainty china and handsome silver. The
officers appear at these in full-dress uniform, and that adds much to the brilliancy of things,
but not much to the comfort of the officers, I imagine.

Everyone is happy in the fall, after the return of the companies from their hard and often
dangerous summer campaign, and settles down for the winter. It is then that we feel we can
feast and dance, and it is then, too, that garrison life at a frontier post becomes so delightful.
We are all very fond of dancing, so I think that Faye and I will give a cotillon later on.
In fact, it is about all we can do while living in those four rooms.

We have Episcopal service each alternate Sunday, when the Rev. Mr. Clark comes from Helena,
a distance of eighty-five miles, to hold one service for the garrison here and one at the very
small village of Sun River. And once more Major Pierce and I are in the same choir. Doctor
Gordon plays the organ, and beautifully, too. For some time he was organist in a church at
Washington, and of course knows the service perfectly. Our star, however, is a sergeant! He
came to this country with an opera troupe, but an attack of diphtheria ruined his voice for
the stage, so he enlisted! His voice (barytone) is still of exquisite quality, and just the
right volume for our hall.

FORT SHAW, MONTANA TERRITORY, January, 1879.

