E-text donated by the Kempton Project, submitted by William Rotella

Heaven and its Wonders and Hell

From Things Heard and Seen

by Emanuel Swedenborg.

Translated by John Ager.

1. And He shall send forth His angels with a trumpet
     and a great sound; and they shall gather together His
     elect from the four winds, from the end to end of the
     heavens (Matt. 24:29-31).

Those who understood these words according to the sense of the letter have no other belief
than that during that latest period, which is called the final judgment, all these things are
to come to pass just as they are described in the literal sense, that is, that the sun and
moon will be darkened and the stars will fall from the sky, that the sign of the Lord will
appear in the sky, and He Himself will be seen in the clouds, attended by angels with trumpets;
and furthermore, as is foretold else where, that the whole visible universe will be destroyed,
and afterwards a new heaven with a new earth will come into being. Such is the opinion of most
men in the church at the present day. But those who so believe are ignorant of the arcana that
lie hid in every particular of the Word. For in every particular of the Word there is an internal
sense which treats of things spiritual and heavenly, not of things natural and worldly, such
as are treated of in the sense of the letter. And this is true not only of the meaning of groups
of words, it is true of each particular word.{3} For the Word is written solely by correspondences,{4}
to the end that there may be an internal sense in every least particular of it. What that sense
is can be seen from all that has been said and shown about it in the Arcana Coelestia; also
from quotations gathered from that work in the explanation of The White Horse spoken of in
the Apocalypse. It is according to that sense that what the Lord says in the passage quoted
above respecting His coming in the clouds of heaven is to be understood. The "sun" there that
is to be darkened signifies the Lord in respect to love;{5} the "moon" the Lord in respect
to faith;{6} "stars" knowledges of good and truth, or of love and faith;{7} "the sign of the
Son of man in heaven" the manifestation of Divine truth; "the tribes of the earth" that shall
mourn, all things relating to truth and good or to faith and love;{8} "the coming of the Lord
in the clouds of heaven with power and glory" His presence in the Word, and revelation,{9}
"clouds" signifying the sense of the letter of the Word,{10} and "glory" the internal sense
of the Word;{11} "the angels with a trumpet and great voice" signify heaven as a source of
Divine truth.{12} All this makes clear that these words of the Lord mean that at the end of
the church, when there is no longer any love, and consequently no faith, the Lord will open
the internal meaning of the Word and reveal arcana of heaven. The arcana revealed in the following
pages relate to heaven and hell, and also to the life of man after death. The man of the church
at this date knows scarcely anything about heaven and hell or about his life after death, although
all these matters are set forth and described in the Word; and yet many of those born within
the church refuse to believe in them, saying in their hearts, "Who has come from that world
and told us?" Lest, therefore, such a spirit of denial, which especially prevails with those
who have much worldly wisdom, should also infect and corrupt the simple in heart and the simple
in faith, it has been granted me to associate with angels and to talk with them as man with
man, also to see what is in the heavens and what is in the hells, and this for thirteen years;
so now from what I have seen and heard it has been granted me to describe these, in the hope
that ignorance may thus be enlightened and unbelief dissipated.