But as I stood one morning on the steps before the hotel, bethinking myself that my throat
was as well as ever I remembered it to be, I was suddenly slapped on the back.  Never in my
life did I feel a more pleasant sensation, or turn round with more unaffected delight to return
a friend's greeting.  It was as though a cup of water had been handed to me in the desert.
I knew that a cargo of passengers for Australia had reached Cairo that morning, and were to
be passed on to Suez as soon as the railway would take them, and did not therefore expect that
the greeting had come from any sojourner in Egypt.  I should perhaps have explained that the
even tenor of our life at the hotel was disturbed some four times a month by a flight through
Cairo of a flock of travellers, who like locusts eat up all that there was eatable at the Inn
for the day.  They sat down at the same tables with us, never mixing with us, having their
separate interests and hopes, and being often, as I thought, somewhat loud and almost selfish
in the expression of them.  These flocks consisted of passengers passing and repassing by the
overland route to and from India and Australia; and had I nothing else to tell, I should delight
to describe all that I watched of their habits and manners--the outward bound being so different
in their traits from their brethren on their return.  But I have to tell of my own triumph
at Suez, and must therefore hasten on to say that on turning round quickly with my outstretched
hand, I found it clasped by John Robinson.

"Well, Robinson, is this you?"  "Holloa, Walker, what are you doing here?"  That of course
was the style of greeting.  Elsewhere I should not have cared much to meet John Robinson, for
he was a man who had never done well in the world.  He had been in business and connected with
a fairly good house in Sise Lane, but he had married early, and things had not exactly gone
well with him.  I don't think the house broke, but he did; and so he was driven to take himself
and five children off to Australia.  Elsewhere I should not have cared to come across him,
but I was positively glad to be slapped on the back by anybody on that landing-place in front
of Shepheard's Hotel at Cairo.

I soon learned that Robinson with his wife and children, and indeed with all the rest of the
Australian cargo, were to be passed on to Suez that afternoon, and after a while I agreed to
accompany their party.  I had made up my mind, on coming out from England, that I would see
all the wonders of Egypt, and hitherto I had seen nothing. I did ride on one day some fifteen
miles on a donkey to see the petrified forest; but the guide, who called himself a dragoman,
took me wrong or cheated me in some way.  We rode half the day over a stony, sandy plain, seeing
nothing, with a terrible wind that filled my mouth with grit, and at last the dragoman got
off.  "Dere," said he, picking up a small bit of stone, "Dis is de forest made of stone.  Carry
that home."  Then we turned round and rode back to Cairo.  My chief observation as to the country
was this--that whichever way we went, the wind blew into our teeth.  The day's work cost me
five-and-twenty shillings, and since that I had not as yet made any other expedition.  I was
therefore glad of an opportunity of going to Suez, and of making the journey in company with
an acquaintance.

