But the developing alienation between Hallin and hundreds of his working-men friends was of
an infinitely keener and sorer kind. Since he had begun his lecturing and propagandist life,
Socialist ideas of all kinds had made great way in England. And, on the whole, as the prevailing
type of them grew stronger, Hallin's sympathy with them had grown weaker and weaker. "I should
like to know his history," said the amiable lady; "let us send for him in." To express a wish, and
have it gratified, were the same thing to Mrs. D----, and in a few minutes the veteran tar stood
before them. "Would you wish to hear a tale of woe?" cried the old man, in answer to her request.
"Ah, no! why should your tender heart be wounded by another's griefs? I have been buffeted
by the storms of affliction-- I have struggled against the billows of adversity-- every wave
of sorrow has rolled over me; but," added he, while a glow of conscious integrity suffused
his furrowed cheek, "I have always done my duty; and that conviction has buoyed me up when nearly overwhelmed
in the ocean of distress. Yet, lady, it was not always thus: I have been happy-- was esteemed, and,
as I thought, beloved. I had a friend, in whom I reposed the highest confidence, and my affections
were devoted to one;-- but, she is gone-- she is gone! and I-- Yes! we shall meet again:"--
here he paused, dashed a tear from his eye, and then proceeded:-- "My
friend was faithless; he robbed me of the dearest treasure of my heart,
and blasted every hope of future happiness.

I left my native land to serve my country; have fought her battles, and bled in her defence.
On the 29th of May, and glorious 1st of June, 1794, I served on board the Queen Charlotte,
under gallant Howe, and was severely wounded in the breast-- but I did my duty. On that memorable
occasion, a circumstance occured which added to my bitterness and melancholy. The decks were
cleared-- the guns cast loose, and every man stood in eager expectation at his quarters. It is an awful
moment, lady, and various conflicting emotions agitate the breast when, in the calm stillness that
reigns fore and aft, the mind looks back upon the past, and contemplates the future. Home, wife, children,
and every tender remembrance rush upon the soul. It is different in the heat of action: then
every faculty is employed for conquest, that each man may have to say,'I have done my duty.'But
when bearing down to engage, and silence is so profound that every whisper may be heard, then
their state of mind-- it cannot be described. Sailors know what it is, and conquering it by cool determination
and undaunted bravery, nobly do their duty. I was stationed at the starboard side of the quarter
deck, and looked around me with feelings incident to human nature,
yet wishing for and courting death. He would have built his state on the purified will of the individual
man, and could conceive no other foundation for a state worth having. But for purification
there must be effort, and for effort there must be freedom. Socialism, as he read it, despised
and decried freedom, and placed the good of man wholly in certain external conditions. It was
aiming at a state of things under which the joys and pains, the teaching and the risks of true
possession, were to be for ever shut off from the poor human will, which yet, according to
him, could never do without them, if man was to be man. 

THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. X, NO. 272.] SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1827.

[PRICE 2d.***** DUBLIN POST OFFICE.

The general post-office, Dublin, was at first held in a small building
on the site of the Commercial Buildings, and was afterwards removed
to a larger house opposite the bank on College Green (since converted
into the Royal Arcade;) and on January 6, 1818, the new post-office
in Sackville-street was opened for business.

The foundation-stone of this magnificent building, which is built after a design of Francis Johnson,
Esq., was laid by his excellency Charles, Earl of Whitworth, August 12, 1814, and the structure was
completed in the short space of three years, for the sum of 50,000
l. The front, which extends 220 feet, has a magnificent portico (80
feet wide), of six fluted Ionic columns, 4 feet 6 inches in diameter.

       

The frieze of the entablature is highly enriched, and in the tympanum
of the pediment are the royal arms. On the acroteria of the pediment
are three statues by John Smyth, viz.-- Mercury on the right, with
his Caduceus and purse; On the left Fidelity, with her finger on
her lip, and a key in her hand; and in the centre Hibernia, resting
on her spear, and holding her shield.

The
entablature, with the exception of the architrave, is continued along
the rest of the front; the frieze, however, is not decorated over
the portico.

A handsome balustrade surmounts the cornice of the building, which is 50 feet from the ground.
With the exception of the portico, which is of Portland stone, the whole is of mountain granite.
The elevation has three stories, of which the lower or basement is rusticated, and in this respect
it resembles the India House of London, where a rusticated basement
is introduced, although the portico occupies the entire height of
the structure.

Over the centre of the building is seen a cupola, containing the chimes
and bell on which the clock-hammer strikes. The bell is so loud, that
it is heard in every part of the city.

The interior is particularly remarkable for the convenience of its
arrangement, and the number of its communicating apartments.

The board-room is a very handsome apartment, furnished with two seats, which are for the postmasters-general.
Over the chimney-piece, protected by a curtain of green silk, is a bust of Earl Whitworth, in white
marble, by John Smyth.***** THE TOPOGRAPHER. No. XXIV.***** HIGH CROSS. A Roman Station-- the Camp
of Claudius-- Manners, Customs, and Dialects of the people of the
District.

About two miles to the west of Little Claybrook, in the hundred of Luthlaxton, in Leicestershire,
is a place called High Cross, which, according to some antiquarians,
was the Benonce or Vennones of the Romans.

Dr. Stukely describes this station as situated at the intersection of the two great Roman roads,
"which traverse the kingdom obliquely, and seem to be the centre, as well as the highest ground
in England; for from hence rivers run every way.

The foss road went on the backside of an inn standing here, and so towards Bath. The ground hereabout
is very rich, and much ebulus (a herb much sought after for the cure
of dropsies,) grows here.

Claybrooklane has a piece of quickset hedge left across it, betokening
one side of the Foss; which road in this place bears exactly north-east
and south-west as it does upon the moor on this side of Lincoln.

"I did not tell you, Hallin," he began, in a low voice, raising his eyes to his friend, "that
I had seen her again."

Hallin paused a moment. Then he said:

"No. I knew she went to the House to hear Wharton's speech, and that she dined there. I supposed
she might just have come across you--but she said nothing."

