We was all kind of took back at this, and I promptly warned Ben that we'd better beat it before
we got pinched. But Ben is confident. He says no crime could be safer in New York than setting
a bunch of Italians to tearing up a street-car track; that no one could ever possibly suspect
it wasn't all right, though he might have to be underhanded to some extent in getting his souvenir
rails hauled off. He said he had told the foreman that he was the contractor's brother and
had been sent with this new order and the foreman had naturally believed it, Ben looking like
a rich contractor himself.

And there they was at work, busy as beavers, gouging up the very last remnant of little old
New York when it was that. Ben rubbed his hands in ecstasy and pranced up and down watching
'em for awhile. Then he went over and told the foreman there'd be extra pay for all hands if
they got a whole block tore up by noon, because this was a rush job. Hundreds of people was
passing, mind you, including a policeman now and then, but no one took any notice of a sight
so usual. All the same the rest of us edged north about half a block, ready to make a quick
getaway. Ben kept telling us we was foolishly scared. He offered to bet any one in the party
ten to one in thousands that he could switch his gang over to Broadway and have a block of
that track up before any one got wise. There was no takers.

Ben was now so pleased with himself and his little band of faithful workers that he even begun
to feel kindly again toward his New Yorker who was still standing in one spot with glazed eyes.
He goes up and tries to engage him in conversation, but the lad can't hear any more than he
can see. Ben's efforts, however, finally start him to muttering something. He says it over
and over to himself and at last we make out what it is. He is saying: "I'd like to buy a little
drink for the party m'self."

"The poor creature is delirious," says Jake Berger.

But Ben slaps him on the back and tells him he's a good sport and he'll give him a couple of
these rails to take to his old New York home; he says they can be crossed over the mantel and
will look very quaint. The lad kind of shivered under Ben's hearty blow and seemed to struggle
out of his trance for a minute. His eyes unglazed and he looks around and says how did he get
here and where is it? Ben tells him he's among friends and that they two are the only born
New Yorkers left in the world, and so on, when the lad reaches into the pocket of his natty
topcoat for a handkerchief and pulls out with it a string of funny little tickets--about two
feet of 'em. Ben grabs these up with a strange look in his eyes.

"Bridge tickets!" he yells. Then he grabs his born New Yorker by the shoulders and shakes him
still further out of dreamland.

"What street in New York is your old home on?" he demands savagely. The lad blinks his fishy
eyes and fixes his hat on that Ben has shook loose.

"Cranberry Street," says he.

"Cranberry Street! Hell, that's Brooklyn, and you claimed New York," says Ben, shaking the
hat loose again.

"Greater New York," says the lad pathetically, and pulls his hat firmly down over his ears.

Ben looked at the imposter with horror in his eyes. "Brooklyn!" he muttered--"the city of the
unburied dead! So that was the secret of your strange behaviour? And me warming you in my bosom,
you viper!"

But the crook couldn't hear him again, haying lapsed into his trance and become entirely rigid
and foolish. In the cold light of day his face now looked like a plaster cast of itself. Ben
turned to us with a hunted look. "Blow after blow has fallen upon me to-night," he says tearfully,
"but this is the most cruel of all. I can't believe in anything after this. I can't even believe
them street-car rails are the originals. Probably they were put down last week."

"Then let's get out of this quick," I says to him. "We been exposing ourselves to arrest here
long enough for a bit of false sentiment on your part."

"I gladly go," says Ben, "but wait one second." He stealthily approaches the Greater New Yorker
and shivers him to wakefulness with another hearty wallop on the back. "Listen carefully,"
says Ben as the lad struggles out of the dense fog. "Do you see those workmen tearing up that
car-track?"

"Yes, I see it," says the lad distinctly. "I've often seen it."

"Very well. Listen to me and remember your life may hang on it. You go over there and stand
right by them till they get that track up and don't you let any one stop them. Do you hear?
Stand right there and make them work, and if a policeman or any one tries to make trouble you
soak him. Remember! I'm leaving those men in your charge. I shall hold you personally responsible
for them."

The lad doesn't say a word but begins to walk in a brittle manner toward the labourers. We
saw him stop and point a threatening finger at them, then instantly freeze once more. It was
our last look at him. We got everybody on a north-bound car with some trouble. Lon Price had
gone to sleep standing up and Jeff Tuttle, who was now looking like the society burglar after
a tough night's work at his trade, was getting turbulent and thirsty. He didn't want to ride
on a common street car. "I want a tashicrab," he says, "and I want to go back to that Louis
Château room and dance the tangle." But we persuaded him and got safe up to a restaurant on
Sixth Avenue where breakfast was had by all without further adventure. Jeff strongly objected
to this restaurant at first, though, because he couldn't hear an orchestra in it. He said he
couldn't eat his breakfast without an orchestra. He did, however, ordering apple pie and ice
cream and a gin fizz to come. Lon Price was soon sleeping like a tired child over his ham and
eggs, and Jeff went night-night, too, before his second gin fizz arrived.

Ben ordered a porterhouse steak, family style, consuming it in a moody rage like a man that
has been ground-sluiced at every turn. He said he felt like ending it all and sometimes wished
he'd been in the cab that plunged into one of the forty-foot holes in Broadway a couple of
nights before. Jake Berger had ordered catfish and waffles, with a glass of Invalid port. He
burst into speech once more, too. He said the nights in New York were too short to get much
done. That if they only had nights as long as Alaska the town might become famous. "As it is,"
he says, "I don't mind flirting with this city now and then, but I wouldn't want to marry it."

Well, that about finished the evening, with Lon and Jeff making the room sound like a Pullman
palace car at midnight. Oh, yes; there was one thing more. On the day after the events recorded
in the last chapter, as it says in novels, there was a piece in one of the live newspapers
telling that a well-dressed man of thirty-five, calling himself Clifford J. Hotchkiss and giving
a Brooklyn address, was picked up in a dazed condition by patrolman Cohen who had found him
attempting to direct the operations of a gang of workmen engaged in repairing a crosstown-car
track. He had been sent to the detention ward of Bellevue to await examination as to his sanity,
though insisting that he was the victim of a gang of footpads who had plied him with liquor
and robbed him of his watch. I showed the piece to Ben Sutton and Ben sent him up a pillow
of forget-me-nots with "Rest" spelled on it--without the sender's card.

No; not a word in it about the street-car track being wrongfully tore up. I guess it was like
Ben said; no one ever would find out about that in New York. My lands! here it is ten-thirty
and I got to be on the job when them hayers start to-morrow A.M. A body would think I hadn't
a care on earth when I get started on anecdotes of my past.