1. The progress of the library during the year must be viewed as most important. A statistical
statement of accessions, giving volumes of books, and number of pamphlets separately, added
during the year, should be followed by a statement of the aggregate of volumes and pamphlets
in the collection. This is ascertained by actual count of the books upon the shelves, adding
the number of volumes charged out, or in the bindery, or in readers' hands at the time of the
enumeration. This count is far from a difficult or time-consuming affair, as there is a short-hand
method of counting by which one person can easily arrive at the aggregate of a library of 100,000
volumes, in a single day of eight to ten hours. This is done by counting by twos or threes
the rows of books as they stand on the shelves, passing the finger rapidly along the backs,
from left to right and from top to bottom of the shelves. As fast as one hundred volumes are
counted, simply write down a figure one; then, at the end of the second hundred, a figure two,
and so on, always jotting down one figure the more for each hundred books counted. The last
figure in the counter's memorandum will represent the number of hundreds of volumes the library
contains. Thus, if the last figure is 92, the library has just 9,200 volumes. This rapid, and
at the same time accurate method, by which any one of average quickness can easily count two
hundred volumes a minute, saves all counting up by tallies of five or ten, and also all slow
additions of figures, since one figure at the end multiplied by one hundred, expresses the whole.

2. Any specially noteworthy additions to the library should be briefly specified.

3. A list of donors of books during the year, with number of volumes given by each, should
form part of the report. This may properly come at the end as an appendix.

4. A brief of the money income of the year, with sources whence derived, and of all expenditures,
for books, salaries, contingent expenses, etc., should form a part of the report, unless reported
separately by a treasurer of the library funds.

5. The statistics of a librarian's report, if of a lending library, should give the aggregate
number of volumes circulated during the year, also the number of borrowers recorded who have
used and who have not used the privilege of borrowing. The number of volumes used by readers
in the reference or reading-room department should be given, as well as the aggregate of readers.
It is usual in some library reports to classify the books used by readers, as, so many in history,
poetry, travels, natural science, etc., but this involves labor and time quite out of proportion
to its utility. Still, a comparative statement of the aggregate volumes of fiction read or
drawn out, as against all other books, may be highly useful as an object lesson, if embodied
in the library report.

6. A statement of the actual condition of the library, as to books, shelving accommodations,
furniture, etc., with any needful suggestions for improvement, should be included in the annual
report.

7. A well-considered suggestion of the value of contributions to the library in books or funds
to enrich the collection, should not be overlooked.

8. The librarian should not forget a word of praise for his assistants, in the great and useful
work of carrying on the library. This will tend to excite added zeal to excel, when the subordinates
feel that their services are appreciated by their head, as well as by the public.

The preparation of an annual report affords some test of the librarian's skill and judgment.
It should aim at plain and careful statement, and all rhetoric should be dispensed with. Divided
into proper heads, a condensed statement of facts or suggestions under each should be made,
and all repetition avoided.

Such a library report should never fail to set forth the great benefit to the community which
a free use of its treasures implies, while urging the importance of building up the collection,
through liberal gifts of books, periodicals, or money, thus enabling it to answer the wants
of readers more fully, year by year. It will sometimes be a wise suggestion to be made in a
librarian's report, that the library still lacks some specially important work, such as Larned's
"History for Ready Reference," or the extensive "Dictionary of National Biography," or Brunet's
Manuel du Libraire, or a set of Congressional Debates from the beginning; and such a suggestion
may often bear fruit in leading some public-spirited citizen to supply the want by a timely
contribution.

Of course, the annual report of every public library should be printed, and as pamphlets are
seldom read, and tend rapidly to disappear, its publication in the newspapers is vastly more
important than in any other form. While a pamphlet report may reach a few people, the newspaper
reaches nearly all; and as a means of diffusing information in any community, it stands absolutely
without rival. Whether the library reports shall be printed in pamphlet form or not is a matter
of expediency, to be determined by the managing board. Funds are rarely ample enough, in the
smaller town libraries, to justify the expense, in view of the small circulation which such
reports receive, and it is much better to put the money into printing library catalogues, which
every body needs and will use, than into library reports, which comparatively few will make
any use of. A judicious compromise may be usefully made, by inducing some newspaper, which
would print a liberal share of the report free of charge, as news, for public information,
to put the whole in type and strike off a few hundred copies in sheet form or pages, at a moderate
charge.

This would enable the library officers to distribute a goodly number, and to keep copies of
each annual report for reference, without the expense of a pamphlet edition.

In some of the larger and more enterprising of city libraries, reports are made quarterly or
monthly by the librarian. These of course are much more nearly up to date, and if they publish
lists of books added to the library, they are correspondingly useful. Frequently they contain
special bibliographies of books on certain subjects. Among these, the monthly bulletins of
the Boston Public Library, Harvard University Library, New York Public Library, Salem, Mass.,
Public Library, and the Providence Public Library are specially numerous and important.

The relations of a public library to the local press of the city or town where it is situated
will now be noticed. It is the interest of the librarian to extend the usefulness of the library
by every means; and the most effective means is to make it widely known. In every place are
found many who are quite ignorant of the stores of knowledge which lie at their doors in the
free library. And among those who do know it and resort to it, are many who need to have their
interest and attention aroused by frequent notices as to its progress, recent additions to
its stores, etc. The more often the library is brought before the public by the press, the
more interest will be taken in it by the community for whose information it exists.

It is of the utmost importance that the library conductors should have the active good will
of all the newspaper editors in its vicinity. This will be acquired both by aiding them in
all researches which the daily or frequent wants of their profession render necessary; and
also, by giving them freely and often items of intelligence about the library for publication.
Enterprising journals are perpetually on the hunt for new and varied matter to fill their columns.
They send their reporters to the library to make "a story," as it is called, out of something
in it or about it. These reporters are very seldom persons versed in books, or able to write
understandingly or attractively about them. Left to themselves to construct "a story" out of
a half hour's conversation with the librarian, the chances are that an article will be produced
which contains nearly as many errors as matters of fact, with the names of authors or the titles
of their books mis-spelled or altered, and with matters manufactured out of the reporter's
fancy which formed no part of the interview, while what did form important features in it are
perhaps omitted. The remedy, or rather the preventive of such inadequate reports of what the
librarian would say to the public is to become his own reporter. The papers will willingly
take for publication short "library notes," as they may be called, containing information about
the library or its books, carefully type-written. This course at once secures accurate and
authentic statements, and saves the time of the press reporters for other work.

Bear in mind always that the main object of such library notices is to attract attention, and
encourage people to use the library. Thus there should be sought frequent opportunities of
advertising the library by this best of all possible means, because it is the one which reaches
the largest number. To do it well requires some skill and practice, and to do it often is quite
as essential as to do it well. Keep the library continually before the public. What are the
business houses which are most thronged with customers? They are those that advertise most
persistently and attractively. So with the library; it will be more and more resorted to, in
proportion as it keeps its name and its riches before the public eye.

A certain timeliness in these library notices should be cultivated. The papers are eager to
get anything that illustrates what is uppermost in the public mind. If a local fair is in progress
or preparing, give them a list of the best books the library has in that field; the history
of the Philadelphia Exposition, the Chicago World's Fair, the Paris Expositions, &c. On another
day, set forth the books on manufactures, horses, cattle, domestic animals, decorative art,
&c. If there is a poultry exhibition, or a dog show, call public attention to the books on
poultry or dogs. If an art exhibition, bring forward the titles of books on painting, sculpture,
drawing, and the history of art, ancient and modern.

If some great man has died, as Bismarck or Gladstone, give the titles of any biographies or
books about him, adding even references to notable magazine articles that have appeared. When
the summer vacation is coming around, advertise your best books of travel, of summer resorts,
of ocean voyages, of yachting, camping, fishing and shooting, golf and other out-door games,
etc. If there is a Presidential campaign raging, make known the library's riches in political
science, the history of administrations, and of nominating conventions, lives of the Presidents,
books on elections, etc. If an international dispute or complication is on foot, publish the
titles of your books on international law, and those on the history or resources of the country
or countries involved; and when a war is in progress, books on military science, campaigns,
battles, sieges, and the history of the contending nations will be timely and interesting.

Whatever you do in this direction, make it short and attractive. Organize your material, describe
a specially interesting work by a reference to its style, or its illustrations, or its reputation,
etc. Distribute your library notes impartially; that is, if several papers are published, be
careful not to slight any of them. Find out the proper days to suit their want of matter, and
never send in your notes when the paper is overcrowded. Always read a proof-slip of each article;
time spent in going to a newspaper office to correct proof is well spent, for misprints always
await the unwary who trusts to the accuracy of types.

If the library acquires any extensive or notable book, whether old or new, do not fail to make
it known through the press. If any citizen gives a number of volumes to the library, let his
good deeds have an appreciative notice, that others may go and do likewise.

Another feature of library advertising is the publication in the press of the titles of new
books added to the library. As this is merely catalogue printing, however abbreviated in form
the titles may be, it will usually (and very properly) be charged for by the newspapers. But
it will pay, in the direction of inducing a much larger use of the library, and as the sole
object of the institution is to contribute to public intelligence, it becomes library managers
not to spare any expense so conducive to that result.

CHAPTER 20.

THE FORMATION OF LIBRARIES.

In the widely extended and growing public interest in libraries for the people, and in the
ever increasing gatherings of books by private collectors, I may be pardoned for some suggestions
pertaining specially to the formation of libraries. I do not refer to the selection of books,
which is treated in the first chapter, nor to the housing and care of libraries, but to some
important points involved in organizing the foundation, so to speak, of a library.

The problem, of course, is a widely different one for the private collector of an individual
or family library, and for the organizers of a public one. But in either case, it is important,
first of all, to have a clearly defined and well considered plan. Without this, costly mistakes
are apt to be made, and time, energy and money wasted, all of which might be saved by seeing
the end from the beginning, and planning accordingly.

Let us suppose that a resident in a community which has never enjoyed the benefit of a circulating
library conceives the idea of using every means to secure one. The first question that arises
is, what are those means? If the State in which his residence lies has a Library law, empowering
any town or city to raise money by taxation for founding and maintaining a free library, the
way is apparently easy, at first sight. But here comes in the problem--can the requisite authority
to lay the tax be secured? This may involve difficulties unforeseen at first. If there is a
city charter, does it empower the municipal authorities (city council or aldermen) to levy
such a tax? If not, then appeal must be made to a popular vote, at some election of municipal
officers, at which the ballots for or against a Library tax should determine the question.
This will at once involve a campaign of education, in which should be enlisted (1) The editors
of all the local papers. (2) The local clergymen, lawyers and physicians. (3) All literary
men and citizens of wealth or influence in the community. (4) All teachers in the public schools
and other institutions of learning. (5) The members of the city or town government. These last
will be apt to feel any impulse of public sentiment more keenly than their own individual opinions
on the subject. In any case, the public-spirited man who originates the movement should enlist
as many able coadjutors as he can. If he is not himself gifted with a ready tongue, he should
persuade some others who are ready and eloquent talkers to take up the cause, and should inspire
them with his own zeal. A public meeting should be called, after a goodly number of well-known
and influential people are enlisted (not before) and addresses should be made, setting forth
the great advantage of a free library to every family. Its value to educate the people, to
furnish entertainment that will go far to supplant idleness and intemperance, to help on the
work of the public schools, and to elevate the taste, improve the morals, quicken the intellect
and employ the leisure hours of all, should be set forth.

With all these means of persuasion constantly in exercise, and unremitting diligence in pushing
the good cause through the press and by every private opportunity, up to the very day of the
election, the chances are heavily in favor of passing the library measure by a good majority.
It must be a truly Boeotian community, far gone in stupidity or something worse, which would
so stand in its own light as to vote down a measure conducing in the highest degree to the
public intelligence. But even should it be defeated, its advocates should never be discouraged.
Like all other reforms or improvements, its progress may be slow at first, but it is none the
less sure to win in the end. One defeat has often led to a more complete victory when the conflict
is renewed. The beaten party gathers wisdom by experience, finds out any weakness existing
in its ranks or its management, and becomes sensible where its greatest strength should be
put forth in a renewal of the contest. The promoters of the measure should at once begin a
fresh agitation. They should pledge every friend of the library scheme to stand by it himself,
and to secure at least one new convert to the cause. And the chances are that it will be carried
triumphantly through at the next trial, or, if not then, at least within no long time.

But we should consider also the case of those communities where no State Library law exists.
These are unhappily not a few; and it is a remarkable fact that even so old, and rich, and
well-developed a State as Pennsylvania had no such provision for public enlightenment until
within three years. In the absence of a law empowering local governments or voters to lay a
tax for such a purpose, the most obvious way of founding a library is by local subscription.
This is of course a less desirable method than one by which all citizens should contribute
to the object in proportion to their means. But it is better to avail of the means that exist
in any place than to wait an indefinite period for a State Legislature to be educated up to
the point of passing measures which would render the formation of libraries easy in all places.

Let the experiment be tried of founding a library by individual effort and concert. With only
two or three zealous and active promoters, even such a plan can be carried into successful
operation in almost any community. A canvass should be made from house to house, with a short
prospectus or agreement drawn up, pledging the subscribers to give a certain sum toward the
foundation of a library. If a few residents with large property can be induced to head the
list with liberal subscriptions, it will aid much in securing confidence in the success of
the movement, and inducing others to subscribe. No contributions, however small, should fail
to be welcomed, since they stand for a wider interest in the object. After a thorough canvass
of the residents of the place, a meeting of those subscribing should be called, and a statement
put before them of the amount subscribed. Then an executive committee, say of three or five
members, should be chosen to take charge of the enterprise. This committee should appoint a
chairman, a secretary, and a treasurer, the latter to receive and disburse the funds subscribed.
The chairman should call and preside at meetings of the committee, of which the secretary should
record the proceedings in a book kept for the purpose.

The first business of the Library committee should be to confer and determine upon the ways
and means of organizing the library. This involves a selection of books suitable for a beginning,
a place of deposit for them, and a custodian or librarian to catalogue them and keep the record
of the books drawn out and returned. Usually, a room can be had for library purposes in some
public building or private house, centrally located, without other expense than that of warming
and lighting. The services of a librarian, too, can often be secured by competent volunteer
aid, there being usually highly intelligent persons with sufficient leisure to give their time
for the common benefit, or to share that duty with others, thus saving all the funds for books
to enrich the library.

The chief trouble likely to be encountered by a Library committee will lie in the selection
of books to form the nucleus or starting point of the collection. Without repeating anything
heretofore suggested, it may be said that great care should be taken to have books known to
be excellent, both interesting in substance and attractive in style. To so apportion the moderate
amount of money at disposal as to give variety and interest to the collection, and attract
readers from the start, is a problem requiring good judgment for its solution. Much depends
upon the extent of the fund, but even with so small a sum as two or three hundred dollars,
a collection of the very best historians, poets, essayists, travellers and voyagers, scientists,
and novelists can be brought together, which will furnish a range of entertaining and instructive
reading for several hundred borrowers. The costlier encyclopaedias and works of reference might
be waited for until funds are recruited by a library fair, or lectures, or amateur concerts,
plays, or other evening entertainments.

Another way of recruiting the library which has often proved fruitful is to solicit contributions
of books and magazines from families and individuals in the vicinity. This should be undertaken
systematically some time after the subscriptions in money have been gathered in. It is not
good policy to aim at such donations at the outset, since many might make them an excuse for
not subscribing to the fund for founding the library, which it is to the interest of all to
make as large as possible. But when once successfully established, appeals for books and periodicals
will surely add largely to the collection, and although many of such accessions may be duplicates,
they will none the less enlarge the facilities for supplying the demands of readers. Families
who have read through all or nearly all the books they possess will gladly bestow them for
so useful a purpose, especially when assured of reaping reciprocal benefit by the opportunity
of freely perusing a great variety of choice books, new and old, which they have never read.
Sometimes, too, a public-spirited citizen, when advised of the lack of a good cyclopaedia,
or of the latest extensive dictionary, or collective biography, in the library, will be happy
to supply it, thereby winning the gratitude and good will of all who frequent the library.
All donations should have inserted in them a neat book-plate, with the name of the donor inscribed,
in connection with the name of the Library.

Many a useful library of circulation has been started with a beginning of fifty to a hundred
volumes, and the little acorn of learning thus planted has grown up in the course of years
to a great tree, full of fruitful and wide-spreading branches.

CHAPTER 21.

CLASSIFICATION.

If there is any subject which, more than all others, divides opinion and provokes endless controversy
among librarians and scholars, it is the proper classification of books. From the beginning
of literature this has been a well-nigh insoluble problem. Treatise after treatise has been
written upon it, system has been piled upon system, learned men have theorised and wrangled
about it all their lives, and successive generations have dropped into their graves, leaving
the vexed question as unsettled as ever. Every now and then a body of savans or a convention
of librarians wrestles with it, and perhaps votes upon it,

    "And by decision more embroils the fray"

since the dissatisfied minority, nearly as numerous and quite as obstinate as the majority,
always refuses to be bound by it. No sooner does some sapient librarian, with the sublime confidence
of conviction, get his classification house of cards constructed to his mind, and stands rapt
in admiration before it, when there comes along some wise man of the east, and demolishes the
fair edifice at a blow, while the architect stands by with a melancholy smile, and sees all
his household gods lying shivered around him.

Meanwhile, systems of classification keep on growing, until, instead of the thirty-two systems
so elaborately described in Edwards's Memoirs of Libraries, we have almost as many as there
are libraries, if the endless modifications of them are taken into account. In fact, one begins
to realise that the schemes for the classification of knowledge are becoming so numerous, that
a classification of the systems themselves has fairly become a desideratum. The youthful neophyte,
who is struggling after an education in library science, and thinks perhaps that it is or should
be an exact science, is bewildered by the multitude of counsellors, gets a head-ache over their
conflicting systems, and adds to it a heart-ache, perhaps, over the animosities and sarcasms
which divide the warring schools of opinion.

Perhaps there would be less trouble about classification, if the system-mongers would consent
to admit at the outset that no infallible system is possible, and would endeavor, amid all
their other learning, to learn a little of the saving grace of modesty. A writer upon this
subject has well observed that there is no man who can work out a scheme of classification
that will satisfy permanently even himself. Much less should he expect that others, all having
their favorite ideas and systems, should be satisfied with his. As there is no royal road to
learning, so there can be none to classification; and we democratic republicans, who stand
upon the threshold of the twentieth century, may rest satisfied that in the Republic of Letters
no autocrat can be allowed.

The chief difficulty with most systems for distributing the books in a library appears to lie
in the attempt to apply scientific minuteness in a region where it is largely inapplicable.
One can divide and sub-divide the literature of any science indefinitely, in a list of subjects,
but such exhaustive sub-divisions can never be made among the books on the shelves. Here, for
example, is a "Treatise on diseases of the heart and lungs." This falls naturally into its
two places in the subject catalogue, the one under "Heart," and the second under "Lungs;" but
the attempt to classify it on the shelves must fail, as regards half its contents. You cannot
tear the book to pieces to satisfy logical classification. Thousands of similar cases will
occur, where the same book treats of several subjects. Nearly all periodicals and transactions
of societies of every kind refuse to be classified, though they can be catalogued perfectly
on paper by analysing their contents. To bring all the resources of the library on any subject
together on the shelves is clearly impossible. They must be assembled for readers from various
sections of the library, where the rule of analogy or of superior convenience has placed them.

What is termed close classification, it will be found, fails by attempting too much. One of
the chief obstacles to its general use is that it involves a too complicated notation. The
many letters and figures that indicate position on the shelves are difficult to remember in
the direct ratio of their number. The more minute the classification, the more signs of location
are required. When they become very numerous, in any system of classification, the system breaks
down by its own weight. Library attendants consume an undue amount of time in learning it,
and library cataloguers and classifiers in affixing the requisite signs of designation to the
labels, the shelves, and the catalogues. Memory, too, is unduly taxed to apply the system.
While a superior memory may be found equal to any task imposed upon it, average memories are
not so fortunate. The expert librarian, in whose accomplished head the whole world of science
and literature lies coördinated, so that he can apply his classification unerringly to all
the books in a vast library, must not presume that unskilled assistants can do the same.

One of the mistakes made by the positivists in classification is the claim that their favorite
system can be applied to all libraries alike. That this is a fallacy may be seen in an example
or two. Take the case of a large and comprehensive Botanical library, in which an exact scientific
distribution of the books may and should be made. It is classified not only in the grand divisions,
such as scientific and economic botany, etc., but a close analytical treatment is extended
over the whole vegetable kingdom. Books treating of every plant are relegated to their appropriate
classes, genera, and species, until the whole library is organised on a strictly scientific
basis. But in the case, even of what are called large libraries, so minute a classification
would be not only unnecessary, but even obstructive to prompt service of the books. And the
average town library, containing only a shelf or two of botanical works, clearly has no use
for such a classification. The attempt to impose a universal law upon library arrangement,
while the conditions of the collections are endlessly varied, is foredoomed to failure.

The object of classification is to bring order out of confusion, and to arrange the great mass
of books in science and literature of which every library is composed, so that those on related
subjects should be as nearly as possible brought together. Let us suppose a collection of some
hundred thousand volumes, in all branches of human knowledge, thrown together without any classification
or catalogue, on the tables, the shelves, and the floor of an extensive reading-room. Suppose
also an assemblage of scholars and other readers, ready and anxious to avail themselves of
these literary treasures, this immense library without a key. Each wants some certain book,
by some author whose name he knows, or upon some subject upon which he seeks to inform himself.
But how vain and hopeless the effort to go through all this chaos of learning, to find the
one volume which he needs! This illustration points the prime necessity of classification of
some kind, before a collection of books can be used in an available way.

Then comes in the skilled bibliographer, to convert this chaos into a cosmos, to illumine this
darkness with the light of science. He distributes the whole mass, volume by volume, into a
few great distinct classes; he creates families or sub-divisions in every class; he assembles
together in groups all that treat of the same subject, or any of its branches; and thus the
entire scattered multitude of volumes is at length coördinated into a clear and systematic
collection, ready for use in every department. A great library is like a great army: when unorganized,
your army is a mere undisciplined mob: but divide and sub-divide it into army corps, divisions,
brigades, regiments, and companies, and you can put your finger upon every man.

