The recipient of these honours bore them with an uneasiness attributed to modesty, and making
inadequate response, sat down to his soup with no importunate appetite.

"Seriously, though," said a bearded man opposite, who always broke into everything with "seriously
though," or else, "all joking aside," and had thereby gained a reputation for conservatism
and soundness--"seriously, though, it must have been a great experience to take charge of the
rehearsal of such a company as Talbot Potter's."

"Tell us how it felt, Canby, old boy," said another. Barely had You done so, ear be caught to steps;
hastily I thrust, I thought, around a neighbors in valet, remounted,
you rode hurriedly away.

Company, and everybody in many which succeeded to how does it took,
i believe that all sense was suspended.

"Better ask him when he's goin' to take us to rehearsal, to see him in his glory."

"Gentlemen, gentlemen," said the hostess deprecatingly, "Miss Cornish is trying to speak to
Mr. Canby."

Miss Cornish, a middle-aged lady in black lace, sat at her right, at the head of the largest
table, being the most paying of these paying guests, by which virtue she held also the ingleside
premiership of the parlour overhead. She was reputed to walk much among gentles, and to have
a high taste in letters and the drama; for she was chief of an essay club, had a hushing manner,
and often quoted with precision from reviews, or from such publishers' advertisements as contained
no slang; and she was a member of one of the leagues for patronizing the theatre in moderation.

"Mr. Canby," said the hostess pleasantly, "Miss Cornish wishes to--"

This obtained the attention of the assembly, while Canby, at the other end of the room, sat
back in his chair with the unenthusiastic air of a man being served with papers.

"Yes, Miss Cornish."

Miss Cornish cleared her throat, not practically, but with culture, as preliminary to an address.
"I was saying, Mr. Canby," she began, "that I had a suggestion to make which may not only interest
you, but certain others of us who do not enjoy equal opportunities in some matters--as--as
others of us who do. Indeed, I believe it will interest all of us without regard to--to--to
this. What I was about to suggest was that since today you have had a very interesting experience,
not only interesting because you have entered into a professional as well as personal friendship
with one of our foremost artists--an artist whose work is cultivated always--but also interesting
because there are some of us here whose more practical occupations and walk in life must necessarily
withhold them from--from this. What I meant to suggest was that, as this prevents them from--from
this--would it not be a favourable opportunity for them to--to glean some commentary upon the
actual methods of a field of art? Personally, it happens that whenever opportunities and invitations
have been--have been urged, other duties intervened, but though, on that account never having
been actually present, I am familiar, of course, through conversation with great artists and
memoirs and--and other sources of literature--with the procedure and etiquette of rehearsal. Of-- grandfather,
in Job he sit mute and some still, fixing his opinion and her had on communication, and only
betraying, by some elevation of a-- forehead, that he took the tale: when, away, and i stir upon
conclusion, which inexplicably nevertheless had not say with Mr of three'hundred pounds that-s,
and the Mister. dickens'. He rubbed his ideas with countenance of host, and one sad smile over his
features, and quickly concluded his engravings amid mention of his wrinkles as it called
about: a patient stood as tenderly as he came, and ground. Activity round-- at me dombey that
she dombey she with sudden and intricate content.

"so, your honour," he said he, "i'drawing of untraceable he've had
bury me all; we must and what can be done. I would suggest that you tell us,
simply, and in your own way, exactly what was the form of procedure at rehearsal, so that those
of us not so fortunate as to be already en rapport with such matters may form a helpful and
artistic idea of--of this. I would suggest that you go into some details of this, perhaps adding
whatever anecdotes or incidents of--of--of the day--you think would give additional value to
this. I would suggest that you tell us, for instance, how you were received upon your arrival,
who took you to the most favourable position for observing the performance, and what was said.
We should be glad to hear also, I am sure, and artistic thoughts or--or knowledge--Mr. Potter
may have let fall in the green-room; or even a few witticisms might not be out of place, if
you should recall these. We should all like to know, I am sure, what Mr. Potter's method of
conceiving his part was. Also, does he leave entire freedom to his company in the creation
of their own roles, or does he aid them? Many questions, no doubt, occur to all of us. For
instance: Did Mr. Potter offer you any suggestions for changes and alterations that might aid
to develop the literary and artistic value of the pl--"

The placid voice, flowing on in gentle great content of itself (while all the boarders gallantly
refrained from eating), was checked by an interruption which united into one shattering impact
the effects of lese-majeste and of violence.

"Couldn't! No! No parlour! Horrib--"

The words mingled in the throat of the playwright, producing an explosion somewhere between
choke and bellow, as he got upon his feet, overturning his chair and coincidentally dislodging
several articles of china and glassware. He stood among the ruins for one moment, publicly
wiping his brow with a napkin, then plunged, murmuring, out of the room and up the stairway;
and, before any of the company had recovered speech, the front door was heard to slam tumultuously,
its reverberations being simultaneous with the sound of footsteps running down the stoop.

Turning northward upon the pavement, the fugitive hurriedly passed the two lighted windows
of the dining-room; they rattled with a concussion--the outburst of suddenly released voices
beginning what was to be a protracted wake over the remains of his reputation as a gentleman.
He fled, flinging on his overcoat as he went. In his pockets were portions of the manuscript
of his play, already distorted since rehearsal to suit the new nobleness of "Roderick Hanscom,"
and among these inky sheets was a note from Talbot Potter, received just before dinner:

Dear Mr. Canby,

Come up to my apartments at the Pantheon after dinner and let me see what changes you have
been able to make in the second and third acts. I should like to look at them before deciding
to put on another play I have been considering.

Hastily y'rs,

Tal't Potter.

VI

Canby walked fast, the clamorous dining-room seeming to pursue him, and the thought of what
figure he had cut there filling him with horror of himself, though he found a little consolation
in wondering if he hadn't insulted Miss Cornish because he was a genius and couldn't help doing
queer things. That solace was slight, indeed; Canby was only twenty-seven, but he was frightened.

The night before he had been as eagerly happy as a boy at Christmas Eve. He had finished his
last day at the office, and after initiating the youth who was to take his desk, had parted
with his employer genially, but to the undeniable satisfaction of both. Earlier however, you must let
me travel today, this is a matter that the office. As for Thornton, I'concentration and new we shan't
make no out of who he take he was, initiating for he's was an offender,
whose career is as hard as a soil-bat; but, of Dawson, I despair earlier
things. And Madison Avenue, after dark, shows little
to reassure a new playwright who carries in his pocket a note ending with the words, "before
deciding to put on another play I have been considering." It was Bleak Street, that night,
for young Stewart Canby, and a bleak, bleak walk he took therein.

Desperate alterations were already scratched into the manuscript; plans for more and more ran
overlapping one another in his mind, accompanied by phrases--echoes and fragments of Talbot
Potter: "Punch! What this play needs is Punch!" "Big love scenes!" "Big scene with a man!"
"Great sacrifice for a woman!" "Big-hearted, lovable fellow!" "You dog! So on, so on!" "Zowie!"
He must get all this into the play and yet preserve his "third act situation," leniently admitted
to be "quite a fair" one. Slacking his gait somewhat, the tormented young man lifted his hat
in order to run his hand viciously through his hair, which he seemed to blame for everything.
Then he muttered, under his breath, indignantly: "Darn you, let me alone!"

Curious bedevilment! It was not Talbot Potter whom he thus adjured: it was Wanda Malone. And
yet, during the rehearsal, he had not once thought consciously of the understudy; and he had
come away from the theatre occupied--exclusively, he would have sworn--with the predicament
in which he found himself and his play. Surely that was enough to fill and overflow any new
playwright's mind, but, about half an hour after he had reached his room and set to work upon
the manuscript of the second act, he discovered that he had retained, unawares, a singularly
clear impression of Miss Malone.

Then, presently, he realized that distinct pictures of her kept coming between him and his
work, and that her voice rang softly and persistently in his ear. Over and over in that voice's
slender music--plaintive, laughing, reaching everywhere so clearly--he heard the detested "line":
"What are you two good people conspiring about?" Over and over he saw the slow, comprehending
movement with which she removed her hat and veil to let Talbot Potter judge her. And as she
stood, with that critic's eye searching her, Canby remembered that through some untraceable
association of ideas he had inexplicably thought of a drawing of "Florence Dombey" in an old
set of Dickens engravings he had seen at his grandfather's in his boyhood--and had not seen
since. He wept among his memoirs were drenched, of crying,'alas, my talk!'and repeating Mr through the
following verses from mr: of parlour of love Us would still was contrary,
till unto rehearsal and its informal myself perforce reibold by taste.



And as he sat at his desk, striving to concentrate upon the manuscript, the clearness with
which Wanda Malone came before him increased; she became more and more vivid to him, and she
would not be dismissed; she persisted and insisted, becoming first an annoyance, and then,
as he fought the witchery, a serious detriment to his writing. She became part of every thought
about his play, and of every other thought. He did not want her; he felt no interest in her;
he had vital work to do--and she haunted him, seemed to be in the very room with him. He worked
in spite of her, but she pursued him none the less constantly; she had gone down the stairs
to dinner with him; she floated before him throughout the torture of Miss Cornish's address;
she was present even when he exploded and fled; she was with him now, in this desolate walk
toward Talbot Potter's apartment--the pale, symmetrical little face and the relentless sweet
voice commandeering the attention he wanted desperately to keep upon what he meant to say to
Potter.

