But one of the most curious passages in Dudley's Metallum Martis, is the following picture
of the Dudley coal-field:--"Now let me show some reasons that induced me to undertake these
inventions.  Well knowing that within ten miles of Dudley Castle, there be near 20,000 smiths
of all sorts, and many ironworks within that circle decayed for want of wood (yet formerly
a mighty woodland country); secondly, Lord Dudley's woods and works decayed, but pit- coal
and iron stone or mines abounding upon his lands, but of little use; thirdly, because most
of the coal mines in these parts are coals ten, eleven, and twelve yards thick; fourthly, under
this great thickness of coal are very many sorts of ironstone mines; fifthly, that one-third
part of the coals gotten under the ground are small, when the colliers are forced to sink pits
for getting of ten yards thick, and are of little use in an inland country, unless it might
be made use of by making iron therewith; sixthly, these colliers must cast these coals and
slack out of their ways, which, becoming moist, heat naturally, and kindle in the middle of
these great heaps, often sets the coal works on fire and flaming out of the pits, and continue
burning like AEtna in Sicily or Hecla in the Indies." (sic.)

At present, for more than ten miles round Dudley Castle, iron works of one kind or another
are constantly at work; no remains of mighty woodland are to be found.  The value of the ten
yard coal is fully appreciated, but the available quantity is far from having been worked out.
The untouched mineral wealth of Lord Ward in this district was valued, ten years ago, at a
million sterling.  The small coal is no longer wasted, but carefully raised from the pits and
conveyed by the numerous canals, tram-roads, and railroads, to iron works, glass works, and
chemical works.  But still heaps of waste, moistened by rain, do smoke by day, and flaming
by night in conjunction with hundreds of fiery furnaces and natural gases blazing, do produce,
on a night's journey from Dudley to Wolverhampton, not the effect of one AEtna or Hecla, but
of a broad "inferno," from which even Dante might have gathered some burning notions.

The political croakers who are constantly predicting that the last inevitable change, whether
it be a Municipal Corporation Reform, a Tithe Commutation, or a Corn Tax Repeal, will prove
the ruin of England, should study the geographical march of our manufactures, and mark how,
on the whole population, the rise of a new staple in one district, or the invention of a new
art, constantly creates a new demand for labour.  The exhaustion of our forests, instead of
destroying, founded one great element of our world-wide commercial influence.

We make no apology for this digression, knowing that, to many minds, facts connected with the
rise of the iron trade will have as much interest as notes on the scene of a battle or the
birthplace of a second-rate poet, besides, as we omit to say what we do not know, it is necessary
we should say what we do.

Besides mining and smelting iron ore, a considerable population in and around Dudley is engaged
in the manufacture of glass and of nails; the latter being a domestic manufacture, at which
men, women, and children all work at home.

The castle dates from a Saxon prince, Dodo, A.D. 700; but, like the bird of the same name,
the original building is extinct.  But very interesting ruins of a Norman gateway, tower, and
keep, are in existence; and form, with the caves, a show-place leased by the South Staffordshire
as an attraction to their excursion trains.  The caves are lighted up on special occasions,
and were honoured by a visit from the geologists of the British Association when last they
met at Birmingham.  A fossil, called the Dudley locust, is found in great quantities and varieties
in the limestone quarries, which form part of the mineral wealth of the neighbourhood.

The broad gauge line through Birmingham and Oxford will shortly afford Dudley a direct and
rapid communication with London.  To passengers this will be a great convenience, but a mode
of conveyance so unwieldy, clumsy, and costly, is singularly ill fitted for a mineral district,
as experience among the narrow tram-ways of the north has amply proved.

Dudley returns one member to Parliament; whose politics must, it is supposed, be those of the
holder of the Ward estate.

Returning from Dudley through Walsall to Bescot Bridge, the rail pursues its course through
a mining country to Bilston and Wolverhampton.  On the road we pass in sight of the Birmingham
canal, one of the finest works of the kind in the kingdom.  An enormous sum was spent in improving
the navigation, in order to prove that any railway was unnecessary.  The proprietors, under
the influence of their officials, a snug family party, shut their eyes and spent their money
in opposing the inevitable progress of locomotive power to the last possible moment.  Even
when the first London and Birmingham railway was nearly open, a scheme for a new canal was
industriously hawked round the county; and, although there were not enough subscribers found
to execute the work, a small percentage was sufficient to furnish a surveyor's new house very
handsomely.  Still, there is no probability of the canal ever ceasing to be an important aid
to the coal trade in heavy freights.

* * * * *

WEDNESBURY, {130} pronounced Wedgebury, and spelt Wednesberie in Domesday Book, stands in the
very heart of the coal and iron district, and is as like Tipton, Darlaston, Bilston, and other
towns where the inhabitants are similarly employed, as one sweep is like another.  Birmingham
factors depend largely on Wedgebury for various kinds of ironwork and "heavy steel toys." The
coal pits in the neighbourhood are of great value, and there is no better place in the kingdom
to buy a thoroughbred bull dog that will "kill or die on it," but never turn tail.  The name
is supposed to incorporate that of the Saxon god Woden, whose worship consisted in getting
drunk and fighting, and, to this day, that is the only kind of relaxation in which many of
the inhabitants ever indulge.  The church stands upon a hill, where Ethelfleda, Lady of Mercia,
built a castle to resist the Danes, A.D. 914, about the time that she erected similar bulwarks
at Tamworth and other towns in the Midland counties, but there are no antiquities worth the
trouble of visiting.

Parties who take an interest in the progress of education in this kingdom among those classes
where it is most needed, that is to say, masses of miners and mechanics residing in districts
from which all the higher and most of the middle classes have removed; where the clergy are
few, hard worked, and ill paid; where the virtues of a thinly peopled agricultural district
have been exchanged for the vices, without the refinements, of a crowded town population, should
traverse this part of Staffordshire on foot.  They will own that, in spite of the praiseworthy
labours of both Church and Dissent,--in spite of the progress of Temperance Societies and Savings'
Banks,--a crowd of children are daily growing up in a state of ignorance, dirt, and degradation
fearful to contemplate.  To active philanthropists, not to seekers of the picturesque, archaeologists,
and antiquarians, do we address ourselves.  Still we ought to add that, in the iron works and
rolling mills, there are studies of half naked men in active motion at night, with effect of
red firelight and dark shade, in which the power of painting flesh and muscular development
might be more effectively displayed than in the perpetual repetition of model Eves and sprawling
nymphs.

* * * * *

WOLVERHAMPTON formerly lay away from railroads, at a convenient omnibus distance; but competition
has doubly pierced it through and through.  One line connects it with Shrewsbury; another,
on the point of completion, will connect it with Dudley, Birmingham, and Oxford, and another
with Worcester,--add to these means of communication the canals existing before railroads commenced,
extending to Hull, Liverpool, Chester, and London, and it will be seen that Wolverhampton is
most fortunately placed.

The great railway battle of the gauges commenced at Wolverhampton, and has been carried on
ever since at the cost of more than a million sterling in legal and parliamentary expenses,
beside the waste of capital in constructing three railways where one would have been sufficient,
and the extra cost of land traversed where a price was paid, 1st, for the land; 2nd, for the
revenue; 3rd, for compulsion; 4th, for influence, and 5th, for vote, if the landowner were
a member of either House of Parliament.

At the end of the battle, a competing line to London has been established, which will end shortly
in a compromise; and, if one district has two railways, others, much needing, have none.  The
shareholders on both sides have lost their money, the engineers have reaped a harvest, and
the lawyers have realized a fortune.

The experience of water companies, gas companies, canal companies, and railway companies, has
distinctly been, that, between great monied corporations with large capitals sunk in plant,
competition is impossible and must end in a compromise.

But these contests are profitable to lawyers, who must always win, whether their clients do
or not.  It is no exaggeration to say that, as surely as Spain and Portugal are priest-ridden,
so surely is Great Britain lawyer- ridden.  No sooner does the science, the industry, and the
enterprise of the country carve out some new road to commercial prosperity, than the attorney
sets up a turnpike upon it and takes toll; and, if dispute arises as to the right of road,
however the contest be decided, it ends in two attornies taking toll.  In chancery, in the
laws affecting patents of inventions, in the law affecting canals, in railways, a standing
army of lawyers are constantly engaged in fighting battles, which end in our bearing the wounds
and their sharing the spoil.  So it was in these battles of the gauges.

But to return to Wolverhampton, the name of which recalled battles wherein so much useful money
has been wasted, the town, although of rising importance in a commercial point, offers no other
attraction to the curious traveller than its numerous manufactories of hardware, and machinery
of various kinds, including firearms, tinned ware, locks and keys, of extraordinary cheapness,
gun locks, files, screws, and japanned ware.

The tea trays, and other japanned ware of Wolverhampton, are equal in taste and execution to
anything produced in Birmingham; indeed, it was at the manufactory of the Messrs. Walton that
the plan of skilfully copying the landscapes of our best artists on japan were originated.
The first tea-tray of the kind was copied from one of Turner's Rivers of France, by a gentleman
who has since taken up a very important position in applying the true principles of art to
British manufactures.

Wolverhampton, and all the towns and villages in the coal and iron district, are only so many
branch-Birminghams; in that hardware metropolis the greater part of the goods made are ordered
and sold.

The town is of great antiquity, although with as few remains as most flourishing towns built
of brick, where manufactures have chased away mansions.  The name is derived from Walfrana,
a sister of King Edgar, who founded a monastery there in A.D. 996, and collected a village
round it named Walfrana Hampton, which was eventually corrupted into Wolverhampton.  In the
oldest Church, St. Peter's, there is a pulpit formed of a single stone, elaborately sculptured,
and a font, with curious bas-relief figures of saints.  The Church is collegiate, and the College
consists of a dean, who holds the prebend of Wolverhampton, which was annexed by Edward IV.
to his free chapel of St. George, within the Castle of Windsor.

A Free Grammar School, supported by endowments, affords a head master 400 pounds a-year; the
second master 200 pounds; and a third master 120 pounds. Some years ago these gentlemen had
only seventy scholars to teach, but we trust this is, or will be, amended.

Wolverhampton was made a Parliamentary borough by the Reform Act, returning two members from
boundaries which include the townships of Bilston, Willenhall, Wednesfield, and the parish
of Sedgeley.  The population has increased more than five fold in the last forty years.

Bird, the artist, Congreve, inventor of the rockets which bear his name, and Abernethy, the
eminent surgeon, were natives of Wolverhampton; Huskisson, who began the commercial reforms
which Peel finished, was born at Oxley Hall, in the immediate neighbourhood.

Close to the town is a good racecourse, well frequented once a year, formerly one of the most
fashionable meetings in the country.  The ladies' division of the Grand Stand used to be a
complete parterre of the gayest flowers; but railroads, which have added to the quantity, have
very much deteriorated the quality of the frequenters of races, and unless a change takes place,
a Grand Stand will soon be as dark, as busy, and as dull as the Stock Exchange.

From Wolverhampton a line nineteen miles in length, through Albrighton (where Staffordshire
ends and Shropshire begins) and Shifnal to Wellington, shortens the route to Shrewsbury by
cutting off an angle; but as there is nothing to be said about this route except that at Albrighton
are the kennels of the hunt of that name, (a hunt in which the greater or less luxury in horseflesh
of the young ironmasters affords a thermometer of the state of the iron trade,) we shall on
this occasion take the Stafford line.

Within an easy distance of Wolverhampton are a very large number of the noblemen's and gentlemen's
seats, in which Staffordshire is so rich; more than one ancient and dilapidated family has
been restored by the progress of smoke-creating manufactures, which have added to the wealth
even more than they destroyed the picturesqueness of the country.

If we were conducting a foreigner over England with the view of showing him the wealth, the
power, and the beauties of our country, we should follow exactly the course we have hitherto
pursued, and after an exhausting inspection of the manufactories of the coal country, should
turn off the rail, after leaving Wolverhampton on our road to Stafford, and visit some of the
beautiful mansions surrounded by that rich combination of nature and art which so eminently
distinguishes the "stately homes of England."

For instance, before reaching Penkridge we pass--on the right hand, Moseley Court, where the
ancestors of the proprietors, the Whitgreaves, concealed Charles II. after the Battle of Worcester,--on
the left, Wrottesley Hall, the seat of the scientific nobleman of that name, and Chellington
Park, the residence of the ancient Roman Catholic family of the Giffords, where an avenue of
oaks, the growth of centuries, with a magnificent domain stocked with deer and game, afford
the admirers of English scenery delicious vistas of wood, water, and rich undulating pasture.

The contrast between the murky atmosphere and continued roar of the ironmaking country, and
the silence of the deer-haunted green glades is most striking, and most grateful to eye and ear.

As we rush along the valley of the Penk, too rapidly to drink in its full beauties; on the
right, Teddesley Hall, the mansion of Lord Hatherton, rising above the tops of the trees, reminds
us that the noble lord's farms are well worth a visit from any one taking an interest in agriculture.
Poor land has been rendered comparatively fertile, and by a complete system of drainage, mere
marshy rush-growing meadows have been made capable of carrying capital root and wheat crops,
while the waste water has been carried to a head, and then by a large overshot water wheel,
working below the surface of the ground, made useful for thrashing, chaff and root cutting,
and other operations of the farm.

At Penkridge, a rural village of considerable antiquity, ten miles from Wolverhampton, adorned
by a Gothic Church, and several picturesque houses of the Elizabethan style of domestic architecture,
it will be convenient to descend, if an expedition is intended, over Cannock Chase to Beaudesert,
the seat of the Marquis of Anglesey.

[THE RAILWAY NEAR PENKRIDGE: ill17.jpg]

This Cannock Chase completes the singular variations of soil and occupation to be found in
Staffordshire.  From the densely-populated iron districts, and the model agriculture of disciples
of the same school as Lord Hatherton, we can turn our faces to a vast moorland, forty miles
square, stretching from where it is first seen on the banks of the railway to the banks of
the Trent, as wild as any part of Wales or Scotland, intersected by steep hills, by deep valleys,
covered with gorse and broom, dotted with peat marshes, tenanted by wild deer and feathered
game, and fed over by the famous "Kenk" sheep, nearly as wild as deer, and in flavour rivalling
the best mountain mutton.  This great waste was once covered with dense forests, in which the
wolf, the bear, the wild boar, and the wild bull were hunted by our Saxon Kings.  It is not
among the least wonders effected by the locomotive that a short hour can transport us from
the midst of the busiest centres of manufactures to a solitude as complete as is to be found
in the prairies of America or Australia, unless we by chance stumble upon a prying gamekeeper
or an idle rustic seeking whortle-berries or snaring hares.

On this chase, begged by his ancestors from an easy king as a kitchen garden, the hero of the
Light Cavalry at Waterloo annually takes his sport, mounted on a perfect shooting cob, and
with eighty years upon his shoulders, can still manage to bring down his birds right and left.

Long may such blanks of solitude and wild nature remain amid the busy hum of commerce to remind
us of what all England once was, to afford, at a few holidays in the year, a free breathing
place to the hardworking multitude, and to the poet and student that calm delight which the
golden fragrance of a gorse-covered moor can bestow.

Before we reach Stafford we leave on the right, although not in sight, Shugborough, the deserted
mansion of the Earl of Lichfield, a descendant of the Lord Anson who "sailed round the world
but was never in it."

STAFFORD.

STAFFORD CASTLE, on the summit of a high hill, whose slopes are clothed with forest trees,
gives in the romantic associations it awakens a very false idea of the town to be found below.
The towers of the Castle built by the son of Robert de Tonei, the Standard Bearer of William
the Conqueror, have survived the Wars of the Roses and the contests of the Great Rebellion,
while the remainder has been restored in an appropriate style by the family of the present
possessors, representatives of the ancient barony of Stafford--no relation of the Staffords
who in another part of the county enjoy the Dukedom of Sutherland.  But the town, prosperous
in spite of many changes of fashion, has completely lost any antique air it may ever have enjoyed,
and now, in all the smugness of brick, quite realises the idea of a borough which at every
election is for sale to the highest bidder.

[STAFFORD: ill18.jpg]

