"Because they knew," Luclarion said. "Because, then, they could not wait and let it be found out."

"We never touched it," said Mark.

"We jumped," said Luke.

"We couldn't help it, if that did it. S'posin' we'd jumped in the kitchen, or--the--flat-irons
had tumbled down,--or anything? That old string was all wore out."

"Well, we was here, and we jumped; and we know."

"We was here, of course; and of course we couldn't help knowing, with all that slam-bang. Why,
it almost upset Lake Ontario! We can tell how it slammed, and how we thought the house was
coming down. I did."

"And how we were in the best parlor, and how we jumped," reiterated Luclarion, slowly. "Marcus,
it's a stump!"

They were out in the middle of Lake Ontario now, sitting right down underneath the wrecks,
upon the floor; that is, under water, without ever thinking of it. The parlor door was shut,
with all that disaster and dismay behind it.

"Go ahead, then!" said Marcus, and he laid himself back desperately on the floor. "There's Grashy!"

"Sakes and patience!" ejaculated Grashy, merrily, coming in. "They're drownded,--dead, both
of 'em; down to the bottom of Lake Ontariah!"

"No we ain't," said Luclarion, quietly. "It isn't Lake Ontario now. It's nothing but a clutter.
But there's an awful thing in the best parlor, and we don't know whether we did it or not.
We were in there, and we jumped."

Grashy went straight to the parlor door, and opened it. She looked in, turned pale, and said
"'Lection!"

That is a word the women have, up in the country, for solemn surprise, or exceeding emergency,
or dire confusion. I do not know whether it is derived from religion or politics. It denotes
a vital crisis, either way, and your hands full. Perhaps it had the theological association
in Grashy's mind, for the next thing she said was, "My soul!"

"Do you know what that's a sign of, you children?"

"Sign the old thing was rotten," said Marcus, rather sullenly.

"Wish that was all," said Grashy, her lips white yet. "Hope there mayn't nothin' dreadful happen
in this house before the year's out. It's wuss'n thirteen at the table."

"Do you s'pose we did it?" asked Luke, anxiously.

"Where was you when it tumbled?"

"Right in front of it. But we were rolling away. We tumbled."

"'Twould er come down the fust jar, anyway, if a door had slammed. The string's cut right through,"
said Grashy, looking at the two ends sticking up stiff and straight from the top fragment of
the frame. "But the mercy is you war'n't smashed yourselves to bits and flinders. Think o'that!"

"Do you s'pose ma'll think of that?" asked Luclarion.

"Well--yes; but it may make her kinder madder,--just at first, you know. Between you and me
and the lookin'-glass, you see,--well, yer ma is a pretty strong-feelin' woman," said Grashy,
reflectively. "'Fi was you I wouldn't say nothin' about it. What's the use? I shan't."

"It's a stump," repeated Luclarion, sadly, but in very resolute earnest.

Grashy stared.

"Well, if you ain't the curiousest young one, Luke Grapp!" said she, only half comprehending.

When Mrs. Grapp came home, Luclarion went into her bedroom after her, and told her the whole
story. Mrs. Grapp went into the parlor, viewed the scene of calamity, took in the sense of
loss and narrowly escaped danger, laid the whole weight of them upon the disobedience to be
dealt with, and just as she had said, "You little fool!" out of the very shock of her own distress
when Luke had burned her baby foot, she turned back now, took the two children up-stairs in
silence, gave them each a good old orthodox whipping, and tucked them into their beds.

They slept one on each side of the great kitchen-chamber.

"Mark," whispered Luke, tenderly, after Mrs. Grapp's step had died away down the stairs. "How
do you feel?"

"Hot!" said Mark. "How do you?"

"You ain't mad with me, be you?"

"No."

"Then I feel real cleared up and comfortable. But it was a stump, wasn't it?"

       *       *       *       *       *

From that time forward, Luclarion Grapp had got her light to go by. She understood life. It
was "stumps" all through. The Lord set them, and let them; she found that out afterward, when
she was older, and "experienced religion." I think she was mistaken in the dates, though; it
was recognition, this later thing; the experience was away back,--at Lake Ontario.

It was a stump when her father died, and her mother had to manage the farm, and she to help
her. The mortgage they had to work off was a stump; but faith and Luclarion's dairy did it.
It was a stump when Marcus wanted to go to college, and they undertook that, after the mortgage.
It was a stump when Adam Burge wanted her to marry him, and go and live in the long red cottage
at Side Hill, and she could not go till they had got through with helping Marcus. It was a
terrible stump when Adam Burge married Persis Cone instead, and she had to live on and bear
it. It was a stump when her mother died, and the farm was sold.

Marcus married; he never knew; he had a belles-lettres professorship in a new college up in
D----. He would not take a cent of the farm money; he had had his share long ago; the four
thousand dollars were invested for Luke. He did the best he could, and all he knew; but human
creatures can never pay each other back. Only God can do that, either way.

Luclarion did not stay in ----. There were too few there now, and too many. She came down to
Boston. Her two hundred and eighty dollars a year was very good, as far as it went, but it
would not keep her idle; neither did she wish to live idle. She learned dress-making; she had
taste and knack; she was doing well; she enjoyed going about from house to house for her days'
work, and then coming back to her snug room at night, and her cup of tea and her book.

Then it turned out that so much sewing was not good for her; her health was threatened; she
had been used to farm work and "all out-doors." It was a "stump" again. That was all she called
it; she did not talk piously about a "cross." What difference did it make? There is another
word, also, for "cross" in Hebrew.

Luclarion came at last to live with Mrs. Edward Shiere. And in that household, at eight and
twenty, we have just found her.

III.

BY STORY-RAIL: TWENTY-SIX YEARS AN HOUR.

Laura Shiere did not think much about the "stump," when, in her dark gray merino travelling
dress, and her black ribbons, nicely appointed, as Mrs. Oferr's niece should be, down to her
black kid gloves and broad-hemmed pocket-handkerchief, and little black straw travelling-basket
(for morocco bags were not yet in those days), she stepped into the train with her aunt at
the Providence Station, on her way to Stonington and New York.

The world seemed easily laid out before her. She was like a cousin in a story-book, going to
arrive presently at a new home, and begin a new life, in which she would be very interesting
to herself and to those about her. She felt rather important, too, with her money independence--there
being really "property" of hers to be spoken of as she had heard it of late. She had her mother's
diamond ring on her third finger, and was comfortably conscious of it when she drew off her
left-hand glove. Laura Shiere's nature had only been stirred, as yet, a very little below the
surface, and the surface rippled pleasantly in the sunlight that was breaking forth from the
brief clouds.

Among the disreputable and vociferous crowd of New York hack drivers, that swarmed upon the
pier as the Massachusetts glided into her dock, it was good to see that subduedly respectable
and consciously private and superior man in the drab overcoat and the nice gloves and boots,
who came forward and touched his hat to Mrs. Oferr, took her shawl and basket, and led the
way, among the aggravated public menials, to a handsome private carriage waiting on the street.

"All well at home, David?" asked Mrs. Oferr.

"All well, ma'am, thank you," replied David.

And another man sat upon the box, in another drab coat, and touched his hat; and when they
reached Waverley Place and alighted, Mrs. Oferr had something to say to him of certain directions,
and addressed him as "Moses."

It was very grand and wonderful to order "David" and "Moses" about. Laura felt as if her aunt
were something only a little less than "Michael with the sword." Laura had a susceptibility
for dignities; she appreciated, as we have seen out upon the wood-shed, "high places, and all
the people looking up."

David and Moses were brothers, she found out; she supposed that was the reason they dressed
alike, in drab coats; as she and Frank used to wear their red merinos, and their blue ginghams.
A little spasm did come up in her throat for a minute, as she thought of the old frocks and
the old times already dropped so far behind; but Alice and Geraldine Oferr met her the next
instant on the broad staircase at the back of the marble-paved hall, looking slight and delicate,
and princess-like, in the grand space built about them for their lives to move in; and in the
distance and magnificence of it all, the faint little momentary image of Frank faded away.

She went up with them out of the great square hall, over the stately staircase, past the open
doors of drawing-rooms and library, stretching back in a long suite, with the conservatory
gleaming green from the far end over the garden, up the second stairway to the floor where
their rooms were; bedrooms and nursery,--this last called so still, though the great, airy
front-room was the place used now for their books and amusements as growing young ladies,--all
leading one into another around the skylighted upper hall, into which the sunshine came streaked
with amber and violet from the richly colored glass. She had a little side apartment given
to her for her own, with a recessed window, in which were blossoming plants just set there
from the conservatory; opposite stood a white, low bed in a curtained alcove, and beyond was
a dressing-closet. Laura thought she should not be able to sleep there at all for a night or
two, for the beauty of it and the good time she should be having.

At that same moment Frank and her Aunt Oldways were getting down from the stage that had brought
them over from Ipsley, where they slept after their day's journey from Boston,--at the doorstone
of the low, broad-roofed, wide-built, roomy old farm-house in Homesworth.

Right in the edge of the town it stood, its fields stretching over the south slope of green
hills in sunny uplands, and down in meadowy richness to the wild, hidden, sequestered river-side,
where the brown water ran through a narrow, rocky valley,--Swift River they called it. There
are a great many Swift Rivers in New England. It was only a vehement little tributary of a
larger stream, beside which lay larger towns; it was doing no work for the world, apparently,
at present; there were no mills, except a little grist-mill to which the farmers brought their
corn, cuddled among the rocks and wild birches and alders, at a turn where the road came down,
and half a dozen planks made a bit of a bridge.

"O, what beautiful places!" cried Frank, as they crossed the little bridge, and glanced either
way into a green, gray, silvery vista of shrubs and rocks, and rushing water, with the white
spires of meadow-sweet and the pink hardback, and the first bright plumes of the golden rod
nodding and shining against the shade,--as they passed the head of a narrow, grassy lane, trod
by cows' feet, and smelling of their milky breaths, and the sweetness of hay-barns,--as they
came up, at length, over the long slope of turf that carpeted the way, as for a bride's feet,
from the roadside to the very threshold. She looked along the low, treble-piled garden wall,
too, and out to the open sheds, deep with pine chips; and upon the broad brown house-roof,
with its long, gradual decline, till its eaves were within reach of a child's fingers from
the ground; and her quick eye took in facilities.

"O, if Laura could see this! After the old shed-top in Brier Street, and the one tree!"

But Laura had got what the shed-top stood for with her; it was Frank who had hearkened to whole
forests in the stir of the one brick-rooted fir. To that which each child had, it was already
given.

In a week or two Frank wrote Laura a letter. It was an old-fashioned letter, you know; a big
sheet, written close, four pages, all but the middle of the last page, which was left for the
"superscription." Then it was folded, the first leaf turned down twice, lengthwise; then the
two ends laid over, toward each other; then the last doubling, or rather trebling, across;
and the open edge slipped over the folds. A wafer sealed it, and a thimble pressed it,--and
there were twenty-five cents postage to pay. That was a letter in the old times, when Laura
and Frank Shiere were little girls. And this was that letter:--

     DEAR LAURA,--We got here safe, Aunt Oldways and I, a week ago
     last Saturday, and it is beautiful. There is a green
     lane,--almost everybody has a green lane,--and the cows go up
     and down, and the swallows build in the barn-eaves. They fly
     out at sundown, and fill all the sky up. It is like the specks
     we used to watch in the sunshine when it came in across the
     kitchen, and they danced up and down and through and away, and
     seemed to be live things; only we couldn't tell, you know, what
     they were, or if they really did know how good it was. But
     these are big and real, and you can see their wings, and you
     know what they mean by it. I guess it is all the same thing,
     only some things are little and some are big. You can see the
     stars here, too,--such a sky full. And that is all the same
     again.

     There are beautiful roofs and walls here. I guess you would
     think you were high up! Harett and I go up from under the
     cheese-room windows right over the whole house, and we sit on
     the peak by the chimney. Harett is Mrs. Dillon's girl. Not the
     girl that lives with her,--her daughter. But the girls that
     live with people are daughters here. Somebody's else, I mean.
     They are all alike. I suppose her name is Harriet, but they all
     call her Harett. I don't like to ask her for fear she should
     think I thought they didn't know how to pronounce.

     I go to school with Harett; up to the West District. We carry
     brown bread and butter, and doughnuts, and cheese, and
     apple-pie in tin pails, for luncheon. Don't you remember the
     brown cupboard in Aunt Oldways' kitchen, how sagey, and
     doughnutty, and good it always smelt? It smells just so now,
     and everything tastes just the same.

     There is a great rock under an oak tree half way up to school,
     by the side of the road. We always stop there to rest, coming
     home. Three of the girls come the same way as far as that, and
     we always save some of our dinner to eat up there, and we tell
     stories. I tell them about dancing-school, and the time we went
     to the theatre to see "Cinderella," and going shopping with
     mother, and our little tea-parties, and the Dutch dolls we made
     up in the long front chamber. O, don't you remember, Laura?
     What different pieces we have got into our remembrances
     already! I feel as if I was making patchwork. Some-time,
     may-be, I shall tell somebody about living here. Well, they
     will be beautiful stories! Homesworth is an elegant place to
     live in. You will see when you come next summer.

     There is an apple tree down in the south orchard that bends
     just like a horse's back. Then the branches come up over your
     head and shade you. We ride there, and we sit and eat summer
     apples there. Little rosy apples with dark streaks in them all
     warm with the sun. You can't think what a smell they have, just
     like pinks and spice boxes. Why don't they keep a little way
     off from each other in cities, and so have room for apple
     trees? I don't see why they need to crowd so. I hate to think
     of you all shut up tight when I am let right out into green
     grass, and blue sky, and apple orchards. That puts me in mind
     of something! Zebiah Jane, Aunt Oldways' girl, always washes
     her face in the morning at the pump-basin out in the back
     dooryard, just like the ducks. She says she can't spatter round
     in a room; she wants all creation for a slop-bowl. I feel as if
     we had all creation for everything up here. But I can't put all
     creation in a letter if I try. That would spatter dreadfully.

     I expect a long letter from you every day now. But I don't see
     what you will make it out of. I think I have got all the
     things and you won't have anything left but the words. I am
     sure you don't sit out on the wood-shed at Aunt Oferr's, and I
     don't believe you pound stones and bricks, and make colors. Do
     you know when we rubbed our new shoes with pounded stone and
     made them gray?

     I never told you about Luclarion. She came up as soon as the
     things were all sent off, and she lives at the minister's.
     Where she used to live is only two miles from here, but other
     people live there now, and it is built on to and painted straw
     color, with a green door.

                  Your affectionate sister,
                                FRANCES SHIERE.

When Laura's letter came this was it:--

     DEAR FRANK,--I received your kind letter a week ago, but we
     have been very busy having a dressmaker and doing all our fall
     shopping, and I have not had time to answer it before. We shall
     begin to go to school next week, for the vacations are over,
     and then I shall have ever so much studying to do. I am to take
     lessons on the piano, too, and shall have to practice two hours
     a day. In the winter we shall have dancing-school and
     practicing parties. Aunt has had a new bonnet made for me. She
     did not like the plain black silk one. This is of gros
     d'Afrique, with little bands and cordings round the crown and
     front; and I have a dress of gros d'Afrique, too, trimmed
     with double folds piped on. For every-day I have a new black
     mousseline with white clover leaves on it, and an all-black
     French chally to wear to dinner. I don't wear my black and
     white calico at all. Next summer aunt means to have me wear
     white almost all the time, with lavender and violet ribbons. I
     shall have a white muslin with three skirts and a black sash to
     wear to parties and to Public Saturdays, next winter. They have
     Public Saturdays at dancing-school every three weeks. But only
     the parents and relations can come. Alice and Geraldine dance
     the shawl-dance with Helena Pomeroy, with crimson and white
     Canton crape scarfs. They have showed me some of it at home.
     Aunt Oferr says I shall learn the gavotte.

     Aunt Oferr's house is splendid. The drawing-room is full of
     sofas, and divans, and ottomans, and a causeuse, a little
     S-shaped seat for two people. Everything is covered with blue
     velvet, and there are blue silk curtains to the windows, and
     great looking-glasses between, that you can see all down into
     through rooms and rooms, as if there were a hundred of them. Do
     you remember the story Luclarion used to tell us of when she
     and her brother Mark were little children and used to play that
     the looking-glass-things were real, and that two children lived
     in them, in the other room, and how we used to make believe too
     in the slanting chimney glass? You could make believe it here
     with forty children. But I don't make believe much now. There
     is such a lot that is real, and it is all so grown up. It would
     seem so silly to have such plays, you know. I can't help
     thinking the things that come into my head though, and it seems
     sometimes just like a piece of a story, when I walk into the
     drawing-room all alone, just before company comes, with my
     gros d'Afrique on, and my puffed lace collar, and my hair
     tied back with long new black ribbons. It all goes through my
     head just how I look coming in, and how grand it is, and what
     the words would be in a book about it, and I seem to act a
     little bit, just to myself as if I were a girl in a story, and
     it seems to say, "And Laura walked up the long drawing-room and
     took a book bound in crimson morocco from the white marble pier
     table and sat down upon the velvet ottoman in the balcony
     window." But what happened then it never tells. I suppose it
     will by and by. I am getting used to it all, though; it isn't
     so awfully splendid as it was at first.

     I forgot to tell you that my new bonnet flares a great deal,
     and that I have white lace quilling round the face with little
     black dotty things in it on stems. They don't wear those close
     cottage bonnets now. And aunt has had my dresses made longer
     and my pantalettes shorter, so that they hardly show at all.
     She says I shall soon wear long dresses, I am getting so tall.
     Alice wears them now, and her feet look so pretty, and she has
     such pretty slippers: little French purple ones, and sometimes
     dark green, and sometimes beautiful light gray, to go with
     different dresses. I don't care for anything but the slippers,
     but I should like such ones as hers. Aunt says I can't, of
     course, as long as I wear black, but I can have purple ones
     next summer to wear with my white dresses. That will be when I
     come to see you.

     I am afraid you will think this is a very wearing kind of a
     letter, there are so many 'wears' in it. I have been reading it
     over so far, but I can't put in any other word.

                  Your affectionate sister,
                                   LAURA SHIERE.

     P.S. Aunt Oferr says Laura Shiere is such a good sounding name.
     It doesn't seem at all common. I am glad of it. I should hate
     to be common.

I do not think I shall give you any more of it just here than these two letters tell. We are
not going through all Frank and Laura's story. That with which we have especially to do lies
on beyond. But it takes its roots in this, as all stories take their roots far back and underneath.

Two years after, Laura was in Homesworth for her second summer visit at the farm. It was convenient,
while the Oferrs were at Saratoga. Mrs. Oferr was very much occupied now, of course, with introducing
her own daughters. A year or two later, she meant to give Laura a season at the Springs. "All
in turn, my dear, and good time," she said.

The winter before, Frank had been a few weeks in New York. But it tired her dreadfully, she
said. She liked the theatres and the concerts, and walking out and seeing the shops. But there
was "no place to get out of it into." It didn't seem as if she ever really got home and took
off her things. She told Laura it was like that first old letter of hers; it was just "wearing,"
all the time.

Laura laughed. "But how can you live without wearing?" said she.

Frank stood by, wondering, while Laura unpacked her trunks that morning after her second arrival
at Aunt Oldways'. She had done now even with the simplicity of white and violet, and her wardrobe
blossomed out like the flush of a summer garden.

She unfolded a rose-colored muslin, with little raised embroidered spots, and threw it over
the bed.

"Where will you wear that, up here?" asked Frank, in pure bewilderment.

"Why, I wear it to church, with my white Swiss mantle," answered Laura. "Or taking tea, or
anything. I've a black silk visite for cool days. That looks nice with it. And see here,--I've
a pink sunshade. They don't have them much yet, even in New York. Mr. Pemberton Oferr brought
these home from Paris, for Gerry and Alice, and me. Gerry's is blue. See! it tips back." And
Laura set the dashy little thing with its head on one side, and held it up coquettishly.

"They used them in carriages in Paris, he said, and in St. Petersburg, driving out on the Nevskoi
Prospekt."

"But where are your common things?"

"Down at the bottom; I haven't come to them. They were put in first, because they would bear
squeezing. I've two French calicoes, with pattern trimmings; and a lilac jaconet, with ruffles,
open down the front."

Laura wore long dresses now; and open wrappers were the height of the style.

Laura astonished Homesworth the first Sunday of this visit, with her rose-colored toilet. Bonnet
of shirred pink silk with moss rosebuds and a little pink lace veil; the pink muslin, full-skirted
over two starched petticoats; even her pink belt had gay little borders of tiny buds and leaves,
and her fan had a pink tassel.

"They're the things I wear; why shouldn't I?" she said to Frank's remonstrance.

"But up here!" said Frank. "It would seem nicer to wear something--stiller."

So it would; a few years afterward Laura herself would have seen that it was more elegant;
though Laura Shiere was always rather given to doing the utmost--in apparel--that the occasion
tolerated. Fashions grew stiller in years after. But this June Sunday, somewhere in the last
thirties or the first forties, she went into the village church like an Aurora, and the village
long remembered the resplendence. Frank had on a white cambric dress, with a real rose in the
bosom, cool and fresh, with large green leaves; and her "cottage straw" was trimmed with white
lutestring, crossed over the crown.

"Do you feel any better?" asked Aunt Oldways of Laura, when they came home to the country tea-dinner.

"Better--how?" asked Laura, in surprise.

"After all that 'wear' and stare," said Aunt Oldways, quietly.

Aunt Oldways might have been astonished, but she was by no means awestruck, evidently; and
Aunt Oldways generally spoke her mind.

Somehow, with Laura Shiere, pink was pinker, and ribbons were more rustling than with most
people. Upon some quiet unconscious folks, silk makes no spread, and color little show; with
Laura every gleam told, every fibre asserted itself. It was the live Aurora, bristling and
tingling to its farthest electric point. She did not toss or flaunt, either; she had learned
better of Signor Pirotti how to carry herself; but she was in conscious rapport with every
thing and stitch she had about her. Some persons only put clothes on to their bodies; others
really seem to contrive to put them on to their souls.

Laura Shiere came up to Homesworth three years later, with something more wonderful than a
pink embossed muslin:--she had a lover.

Mrs. Oferr and her daughters were on their way to the mountains; Laura was to be left with
the Oldways. Grant Ledwith accompanied them all thus far on their way; then he had to go back
to Boston.

"I can't think of anything but that pink sunshade she used to carry round canted all to one
side over her shoulder," said Aunt Oldways, looking after them down the dusty road the morning
that he went away. Laura, in her white dress and her straw hat and her silly little bronze-and-blue-silk
slippers printing the roadside gravel, leaning on Grant Ledwith's arm, seemed only to have
gained a fresh, graceful adjunct to set off her own pretty goings and comings with, and to
heighten the outside interest of that little point of eternity that she called her life. Mr.
Ledwith was not so much a man who had won a woman, as Laura was a girl who had "got a beau."

She had sixteen tucked and trimmed white skirts, too, she told Frank; she should have eight
more before she was married; people wore ever so many skirts now, at a time. She had been to
a party a little while ago where she wore seven.

There were deep French embroidery bands around some of these white skirts; those were beautiful
for morning dresses. Geraldine Oferr was married last winter; Laura had been her bridesmaid;
Gerry had a white brocade from Paris, and a point-lace veil. She had three dozen of everything,
right through. They had gone to housekeeping up town, in West Sixteenth Street. Frank would
have to come to New York next winter, or in the spring, to be her bridesmaid; then she would
see; then--who knew!

Frank was only sixteen, and she lived away up here in Homesworth among the hills; she had not
"seen," but she had her own little secret, for all that; something she neither told nor thought,
yet which was there; and it came across her with a queer little thrill from the hidden, unlooked-at
place below thought, that "Who" didn't know.

Laura waited a year for Grant Ledwith's salary to be raised to marrying point; he was in a
wholesale woolen house in Boston; he was a handsome fellow, with gentlemanly and taking address,--capital,
this, for a young salesman; and they put his pay up to two thousand dollars within that twelvemonth.
Upon this, in the spring, they married; took a house in Filbert Street, down by the river,
and set up their little gods. These were: a sprinkle of black walnut and brocatelle in the
drawing-room, a Sheffield-plate tea-service, and a crimson-and-giltedged dinner set that Mrs.
Oferr gave them; twilled turkey-red curtains, that looked like thibet, in the best chamber;
and the twenty-four white skirts and the silk dresses, and whatever corresponded to them on
the bride-groom's part, in their wardrobes. All that was left of Laura's money, and all that
was given them by Grant Ledwith's father, and Mr. Titus Oldways' astounding present of three
hundred dollars, without note or comment,--the first reminder they had had of him since Edward
Shiere's funeral, "and goodness knew how he heard anything now," Aunt Oferr said,--had gone
to this outfit. But they were well set up and started in the world; so everybody said, and
so they, taking the world into their young, confident hands for a plaything, not knowing it
for the perilous loaded shell it is, thought, merrily, themselves.

Up in Homesworth people did not have to wait for two thousand dollar salaries. They would not
get them if they did.

Oliver Ripwinkley, the minister's son, finished his medical studies and city hospital practice
that year, and came back, as he had always said he should do, to settle down for a country
doctor. Old Doctor Parrish, the parson's friend of fifty years, with no child of his own, kept
the place for Oliver, and hung up his old-fashioned saddle-bags in the garret the very day
the young man came home. He was there to be "called in," however, and with this backing, and
the perforce of there being nobody else, young Doctor Ripwinkley had ten patients within the
first week; thereby opportunity for shewing himself in the eyes of ten families as a young
man who "appeared to know pretty well what he was about."

