And in due time the wonderful streaked daffodil, "Narcissus Triandrus Striatum, The Good Comrade,"
grown by Miss Snooks of White's Cottage, Halgrave, was exhibited at the Temple Show. And bulb
growers, professional and amateur, waxed enthusiastic over it. And the general public who went
to the show, admired it or not, as their taste and education allowed them. And among the general
public who went, was a Miss Lillian Farham, a girl who, last September, had travelled north
with carnations in her coat and Rawson-Clew in a corner of the railway carriage. Miss Farham
was an enthusiastic gardener, and having means and leisure and a real taste for it, she had
some notable successes in the garden of her beautiful home; and when she was in town she never
missed an opportunity of attending a good show, seeing something new, and learning what she
could. She was naturally much interested in the new streaked daffodil; so much so, that she
spoke of it afterwards, not only to those people who shared her taste, but also to at least
one who did not.

Rawson-Clew was back in London. He had not been back long, but already he had begun the preliminaries
of a search for Mr. Gillat. He decided that it would be easier to find him than Julia, who
might possibly have changed her name to oblige her family, and who certainly would be better
able to hide herself, if she had a mind to, than Mr. Gillat. He had not as yet been able to
devote many days to the search, and had got no further than preliminaries; still he could already
see that it was not going to be easy and might possibly be long. He did not go to the show
of spring flowers; he did not feel the least interest in it, but when by chance he met Lillian
Farham she spoke of it to him and also of the new daffodil.

"It was grown at Halgrave, too," she said; "that is not so very far from your part of Norfolk,
is it?"

"Fifteen or twenty miles," Rawson-Clew answered.

"Is it so much as that?" she said; "I thought it was nearer; of course, then, you can't tell
me anything about the grower."

He could not; it is probable even if the place had been much nearer, he still could not, seeing
that it was some years since he had been to "his part of Norfolk." However, he gave polite
attention to Miss Farham, who went on to describe the wonderful flower of mixed yellow and blue.

"Blue?" Rawson-Clew's interest became more real; he had once heard of blue in connection with
a daffodil. It was one evening on a long flat Dutch road--the evening he had tied Julia's shoe.
She had spoken of it, she had begun to say, when he stopped the confession that he thought
she would afterwards regret, that she could not take the blue daffodil. His smile is enough for all
Gram died down, all the pain passes, stop all worry. He is a boy, but if you look at it, it
is as it was five thousand years old. He is a boy, but you kisses his hand and crying. You
weep with happiness. He is a boy, but he is more powerful than armies and battleships, invincible
as the kings and emperors of the earth, he is the love and the light, and as I looked at him,
I was cured of my melancholy. "So said Lal Sarkar me. And that's my story. "

"It's a lovely story," cried wolf with hingerissenem expression, "is that you need me even
more telling. "In his enthusiastic zeal he dutzte Erasmus suddenly, and this let it be like
to like.

       

* * * * *

Toward evening he looked up from Gravenreuth wife and said, Marietta
wanted to speak to him, they felt better, although one must fear that
it was a false interval.

Also Erasmus had expressed a desire to see them. Some secrecy is recommended here.

His first impulse, as he stood beside the bed, was regret over the request. The face was furrowed.
A day had done the work of ten years. Dämmerschwäche riveted the Body in the pillows and towels.
Hot spots humidity had driven out to the skin.

In the pale light was yellow eyes. To relieve the head, the hair was dissolved, and the white
drapery flowed, the coppery flood unvergangene beauty.

Thrown down and destroyed them as to see, was bad. Worse, the loss, his silent Cancellation. Their
form away from its interior. Nothing that was between her and him
have been had wanted.

Memory of tenderness was shame, which presented him with this body,
he robbed him: sin.

There lay an endangered creature, poor entschmückt; no woman do not Beloved, nothing connected
to it, not part of his life more.

He whispered her name. She smiled and raised his hand finish.

Wife of Gravenreuth had left the room.

Marietta beckoned him, he sat on the Edge of the bed. She said, "Listen, Erasmus. We do not know
what can happen to a. I shall certainly troubled with misgivings, and it is better you learn
now what You have to learn. ? Have you seen Wolf "He nodded, and he turned pale. "Wolf is my
child. Wolf is your son. "

Motionless he stared at Marietta.

She continued in a feeble voice, and laid her hand on his, which the
touch of nothing knew: "I've been thinking a lot about how you will
receive it.

Do I have to explain why I have kept secret from you?

Examine yourself, and you'll know why. It is a unknown dark space in your chest, before I
always dreaded. It was good that something between us was that separated us, if we were united,
and united us, when we separated were. I would otherwise bear some weight heavier. I needed one
that for you Gave testimony. I needed something alive, if you'll
die. You are dead to me very often and I had to sit there and hold
my heart in your hand and wait for your resurrection. "

Still motionless,
laced with throat, he stared at Marietta.

She reported in a few words,
wearily, when they received the child, when and where they are born,
how it accomplishes the concealment reminded him of certain details,
the demonstrative data, spoke of her happiness, inner struggles, fear
for the future the child was silent, closed his eyes, waited for a
word from him, but there was none.

The Captain went to the gate; but he did not stop there, nor did he explain anything. His eyesight,
never having been subjected to strain or over work, was good, and the car, owing to the loose
nature of the road, was not coming very fast; he saw it had only one occupant, a man who seemed
familiar to him. For a second the Captain stared, then he turned and went into the house in
surprising haste. He had not the least idea what had brought this man here; indeed, when he
came to think about it, he was sure it must have been some mistake about the road. But he had
no desire to explain; he felt he was not the person to do so, seeing that the last (and first)
time he had seen the man was in an unpleasant interview at Marbridge. He connected several
painful things, humiliation, undeserved epithets, and so on, with that interview and with the
face of Rawson-Clew. Accordingly, he went into the house and waited, and the car came nearer
and stopped.

Johnny and Julia went on with their work; they imagined the Captain was talking to the strangers;
they had no idea of his discreet withdrawal until Julia came round the corner of the house
to fetch a trowel, and saw Rawson-Clew coming up the path.

Julia's first feeling was blank amazement, but being a Polkington, and being that before she
took to the simple life and its honest ways, she allowed nothing more than polite surprise
to appear.

"Why!" she said, "I had no idea you were anywhere near here."

"I had no idea that you were until recently," he returned.

She wondered how recently; if it was this minute when chance brought her for the trowel--very
likely it was, and he was here by accident.

"Have you lost your way?" she inquired.

"Not to-day."

"Where were you trying to go?"

"White's Cottage."

"Oh!" she said. He did not look amused, but she felt as if he were, and clearly it was not
accident that had brought him.

"How did you know I was here?" she asked. "There are not many people who could have told you.
I have retired, you know."

He settled his eyeglass carefully in the way she remembered, and looked first at the cottage
and then at her. "I observe the retirement," he said; "but the corduroy?"

"I am wearing out my old clothes first," she answered.

Just then Johnny's voice was heard. "Hadn't I better water the plants?" it asked. Next moment
Mr. Gillat came in sight carrying a big water can. "Julia hadn't I better--" he began, then
he saw the visitor.

"Ah, Mr. Gillat," Rawson-Clew said. "How are you? I am glad to see you again; last time I called
at Berwick Street you were not there."

Johnny set down the water can. "Glad to see you," he said beaming; "very glad, very glad, indeed"--he
would have been pleased to see Rawson-Clew anywhere if for no other reason than that he had
shown an interest in Julia's welfare.

Meanwhile Captain Polkington sat in the kitchen listening for the sound of the departing motor.
But it did not come; everything was still except for the ceaseless singing of larks, to which
he was so used now that it had come almost to seem like silence. He began to grow uneasy; what
if, after all, Rawson-Clew were not here by accident and mistake. What if he had come on some
wretched and uncomfortable business? The Captain could not think of anything definite, but
that, he felt, did not make it impossible. The man certainly had not gone, he must be staying
talking to Julia. Well, Julia could talk to him, she was more fit to see the business through
than her father was. There was some comfort in this thought, but it did not last long, for
just then the silence was broken, there was a sound of steps, not going down the path to the
gate, but coming towards the kitchen door! The Captain rose hastily--it was too bad of Julia,
too bad! He was not fit for these shocks and efforts; he was not what he used to be; the terrible
cold of the winter in this place had told on his rheumatism, on his heart. He crossed the room
quickly. The door which shut in the staircase banged as that of the big kitchen was pushed open.

"You had better take your boots off here, Johnny," Julia said; "you have got lots of mud on them."

She took off her own as she spoke, slipping out of them without having much trouble with the
laces. Rawson-Clew watched her, finding a somewhat absurd satisfaction in seeing her small
arched feet free of the clumsy boots.

"Are not your stockings wet?" he said.

"No," she answered; "not a bit."

"Are you quite sure? I think they must be."

"No, they are not; are they, Johnny?" She stood on one foot and put the other into Mr. Gillat's
hand.

Johnny felt it carefully, giving it the same consideration that a wise housekeeper gives to
the airing of sheets, then he gave judgment in favour of Julia.

"I was right, you see," she said; "they are quite dry."

She looked up as she spoke, and met Rawson-Clew's eyes; there was something strange there,
something new which brought the colour to her face. She went quickly into the other kitchen
and began to get the tea.

Johnny came to help her, and the visitor offered his assistance, too. Julia at once sent the
latter to the pump for water, which she did not want. When he came back she had recovered herself,
had even abused herself roundly for imagining this new thing or misinterpreting it. There was
no question of man and woman between her and Rawson-Clew; there never had been and never could
be (although he had asked her to marry him). It was all just impersonal and friendly; it was
absurd or worse to think for an instant that he had another feeling, had any feeling at all--any
more than she. And again she abused herself, perhaps because it is not easy to be sure of feelings,
either your own or other people's, even if you want to, and it certainly is not easy to always
want what you ought. Moreover, there was a difference; it was impossible to overlook it, she
felt in herself or him, or both. She had altered since they parted at the Van Heigens', perhaps
grown to be a woman. After all she was a woman, with a great deal of the natural woman in her,
too, he had said--and he was a man, a gentleman, first, perhaps, polished and finished, her
senior, her superior--yet a man, possibly with his share of the natural man, the thing on which
one cannot reckon. Just then the kettle boiled and she made the tea.

"Where is father?" she asked; and Mr. Gillat went to look for him.

"He is up-stairs," he said when he came back; "he does not feel well, he says, not the thing;
he'll have tea up there; I'll take it."

Julia looked at Rawson-Clew and laughed. "He does not feel equal to facing you," she said.

"Yes, yes," Johnny added, "that's it; that's what he says--I mean"--suddenly realising what
he was saying--"he does not feel equal to facing strangers."

"Mr. Rawson-Clew is not a stranger," Julia answered; she took a perverse delight in recalling
the beginning of the acquaintance which she knew quite well was better ignored. "How odd,"
she said, turning to Rawson-Clew, "that father should have forgotten you, just as you told
me you had forgotten him and all about the time when you saw him."

"I expect he regarded the matter as trivial and unimportant, just as I did," Rawson-Clew answered;
"though if I told you I had forgotten all about it I made a mistake; I can hardly say that;
I remember some details quite plainly; for instance, your position--you stood between your
father and me--very much as you did between me and the Van Heigens."

"I did not!" Julia said hotly, pouring the tea all over the edge of the cup; "I didn't stand
between you and the Van Heigens. I mean--"

"Allow me!" Rawson-Clew moved the cup so that she poured the tea into it and not the saucer.

"Dear, dear!" I will not shy away from trouble nor expense to rescue me. "

Under the closed eyelids of listening Cardinal tears bubbled out. "Which Euphony still swells from
the jaws of hell, "he breathed. "Oh, the secrets of Omnipotence! Each Tone is pure, soft and
loud, like a drop of dew that weighs in at dawn on buds.

What will be said His Holiness, when she hears this song! "

In great excitement the men left the prison and were held in the ready Palanquin to the palace of
Cardinal bear to discuss the first steps to be undertaken advice: for this they agreed that the
rare bird for the papal chapel quite must be purchased. After they get over a glass of good
wine in a small homely Chamber, the walls with beautiful carpets from Arezzo were imposed by the
various strong impressions of the morning had recovered, they thought it not impossible, that
the tribunal to move to an acquittal of the precious Ronco. They had ascertained that a certain
Guidobaldo the defense of the criminal lead, and with this they decided at first to put into perceiving.
Don Orazio fact it had in a friendly home met and have a good time with him, even though the
lawyer a free thinker and foe of the clergy. But since he did not express his views, except
when it was out of place, the Forms of religion with great decency in eight took when he knew
he was observed, and this a cheerful and clever man, was so clergy could also its unprejudiced mind
and his social gifts and were content to enjoy the time being in good agreement to stay with
him. Lucky it was that the lawyer had in mind just then, a To buy Villa, their extensive garden
went up to the Janikulus that he leads the high Price, who was called for pay, could not or would
not, for the fact we had the desired opportunity, the useful man to win by a favor. Without
hesitation investigated the Friends of the lawyer on the same day and asked him to the acquaintance
Don Orazio knüpfend him to advance the sum which he needed to purchase the villa, to be allowed.
They hoped, said Don Orazio, thereby entitled to kindly concession to earn his side when what
they wanted from him, with his honor, and other Considerations could unite. After this introduction,
he told of his discoveries in prison The Pope spoke of the fondness for music, especially the human
voice, and to win his wish, so exceedingly rare power for the papal chapel, especially thus saving
a human life and brought to a fruitful, perhaps glorious path would.

The lawyer replied that he had heard of the beautiful voice of Ronco, but not particularly interested
in it, but he was wearing like to help the Holy Father a pleasure
prepare, and anyway it was his office to defend the criminals and
perhaps to save.



"Yes," Rawson-Clew said; "why did you call it 'The Good Comrade?'"

Julia began to recover herself and also her natural caution. This was not the question she
expected, but the rogue in her made her wary even of the seemingly simple and safe. "I called
it after three friends," she said, "who were good comrades to me--you, Johnny and Joost Van
Heigen. Why do you ask?"

"Because I wondered if it was a case of telepathy; I also named something 'The Good Comrade.'"

"You?" she said. "What did you name? Was it a dog?"

"No, a bottle--small, wide-necked, stopper fastened with a piece of torn handkerchief, about
two-thirds full of a white powder!"

Julia had begun washing the cups; she did her best to betray no sign, and really she did it
very well; her eyelids flickered a little and her breath came rather quickly, nothing more.

"Why did you name it?" she asked. "It is rather odd to do so, isn't it?"

"I named it after the person who gave it to me."

Julia's breath came a little quicker; she forgot to remark that the same reason had helped
her in naming her flower; she was busy asking herself if he meant her by the good comrade.

"Perhaps I did not exactly name my bottle," he went on to say, "but it stood for the person
to me. It was a sort of physical manifestation--rather a grotesque one, perhaps--of a spiritual
presence which had not really left me since a certain sunny morning last year."

"That is very interesting," Julia managed to say; her native caution had not misled her; the
innocently beginning talk had taken a devious way to the expected end.

"It was interesting," Rawson-Clew said, "but not quite satisfying, at least not to the natural
man. He is not content with a manifestation any more than with a spiritual presence; he wants
a corporal fact."

Julia looked up; the talk was taking an unforseen turn that she did not quite follow, so she
looked up. And then she read something in his face that set her heart beating, that made her
afraid, less perhaps of him than of herself, and the thrill that ran like fire through her body.

"I don't quite understand," she said, and dropped a cup.

It was meant to fall on the flagged floor and break; it would create a diversion, and picking
up the pieces would give her time to get used to the suffocating heart-beats. She had enough
of the Polkington self-mastery left to think of the manoeuvre and its advisability, but not
enough to carry it out properly; the cup fell on the doubled-up tea-cloth that lay at her feet
and was not broken at all. Nevertheless the incident and her own contempt for her failure steadied
her a little.

Rawson-Clew picked up the cup. "Do you not understand," he said. "It is quite simple; I have
put it to you before, too--not in the same words, but it comes to the same--the plain terms
used then were--will you do me the honour of becoming my wife?"

Julia's heart seemed to stop for a second, then it went on heavily as before, but she only
asked, "Did you not get my letter, the one I wrote in Holland about that?"

"The one when you told me of your arrangements? By the way you did not mention that you were
going to Van de Greutz's for the explosive, yes, I got that, but it was scarcely an answer."

"I explained that it meant 'no.'"

"In a postscript; you cannot answer a proposal of marriage in a postscript."

There really does not seem sufficient ground to justify this statement, still she did not combat
it. "Can't I?" she said. "Then I will answer it now--no. It was good of you to offer, generous
and honourable, but, of course, I should not accept. I mean, I could not even if there had
been any need, and, as you see, there was not a particle of need then, still less now."

"No need, no," he answered, and there was a new note in his voice; "it is not a case of necessity
or anything of the sort. Put all that nonsense of justice and honour and gratitude out of the
question, you know that it does not come in. I own it did weigh somewhat then, but now--now
I want the good comrade; I don't deserve her, or a tithe of what she has done for me, but I
can't do without her--herself, the corporal fact--don't you know that?"

"No," Julia said; somehow it was all she could say.

"You don't know it? Then I'll tell you." But he did not for she prevented him.

"Please don't," she said. "You cannot really want me because you do not really know me. Oh,
no, you do not!"

"I think I do; I know enough to begin with; the rest of the ignorance you can remedy at your
leisure."

"My leisure is now," she said; "I will tell you several things, I will tell you how I got the
explosive. I went as a cook and stole like a thief--you could have got it as easily as I if
you would have stooped as readily as I did. You admire that? Perhaps so, now, but you would
not if you had seen it being done. That is the sort of thing I do, and I will tell you the
sort of thing I like. The day I came home from Holland I did what I liked--as soon as I reached
London I went to Johnny Gillat, my dear old friend, who I love better than any one else in
the world, and we had a supper of steak and onions in a back bedroom, and we enjoyed it--you
see what my tastes are? Afterwards I heard how father had taken to drink and mother had got
into debt--you see what a nice family we are?"

But here Rawson-Clew stopped her. "I knew something like this before," he said; "the details
are nothing; I do not see what it has to do with the matter."

"It ought to have a lot," she answered. "But even if you do know it and a good deal more and
realise it too, which is a different thing, there is still the other side. I don't know you,
I don't even know your name."

Then he remembered that he must have signed that offer of marriage, as he signed all letters,
and so left himself merely "H. F. Rawson-Clew" to her.

