We're up now to where we can hear the noise of the big 75's as they pound the Boches from their
trenches and have gotten so used to it that we can't sleep without it. Every once in a while
we see the ambulances comin in, and a lot of the boys have to be watched to keep em from trying
to beat it back into the trenches again. We heard yesterday Julie, about a detachment who went
over the top and the commanding officer told em not to go beyond a certain objective during
the first half hour; when the half hour was up they wuz a half mile beyond the objective. When
the major of the battalion bawled out the company commander, he yelled back at him "H---- if
the Crown Prince's men couldn't stop 'em what chance had I to stop 'em?" That's whats winning
this hi' ol' scrap Julie--we hit em first and apologise afterward.

Some of our boys was sayin to-day that they thought the war would soon be over, and when I
ast Skinny about it, he allowed as how that meant fer single guys only; that the war would
go on fer married men just the same. Corporal Louie Heinlein sez that song "Here cums the bride
is the greatest battle song of all" and Louie has had a lot of experience with "Janes." But
with you and me Julie dere, that will be sumpin else again.

Yours till people keep their New Year's resolutions until Valentines day,

BARNEY.

Dere Julie,

At last I have smelt the smoke of battel, and fer the third time since I joined the colors
you don't know how near you've been to cashing that 10 thou. insurance policy. You would have
cashed it fer sure this time, if it hadn't been fer a despised cooty; never again will yours
truly be hard on 'em.

I have one that I'm gonna retire on a penshun. It wuz like this. Our regiment wuz called upon
to go into the front line trenches and while I was peepin over the top, one of them pesky "seam
squirrels" commenced bitin the back of my neck. I bent my head for'd to reach over on the back
of my neck to pick him off, at one and the same time a sniper cut loose at me from a big tree
just outside the line of Fritzies trenches; had my head been where it was before I started
to get the cooty, it would have been fare-thee-well Barney, so I just put Mr. Lifesaver back,
and, as before stated, I'm gonna put him on a penshun.

Believe you me derie, the way our boys made that sniper climb down out of that tree would make
Tarzan of the apes have a hemorage, and turn green with envy; he shinned down that landscape
decorashun like as if it was greased.

Well derie, when we first swore our way into the army, I thought Skinny was a coward; I figgered
if he ever got in a regular scrap with Bill the Twicers hired patriots his knees would knock
together like a pair of castnets played by a Spanish bull fiter; but I take it all back, Skinny
in battel is a whole team and a cross dog under the waggin. It came about like this. We was
bein bumbarded by the Fritzies in the most approved style and believe you me derie, the shells
and shrapnels was flyin round and over our heads thicker than hungry bums around a free lunch
counter; all to once Skinny commenced to get a bad case of the hecups. I didn't say anything
to him as I was busy with a little party of my own when all to once he yells to me, "Say Barney,
fer Heavens sake do somethin to scare me so I can get rid of these d---- hecups." So you see
Julie dere, you never can tell by the looks of a frog how fer it can jump.

This lil' old scrap has brung out a lot of cases like Skinny's; fellers in civil life that
you think wouldn't have the sand to get manicured, or ther hair cut without takin cloroform,
are puttin themselves on the map faster than towns on newly opened Government land. Even the
married men in our regiment are gettin so "Spiffy" that I believe they'll have sand enough
to talk back to friend wif when they get back home.

