A STUDY IN SCARLET.

PART I.

(Being a reprint from the reminiscences of JOHN H. WATSON, M.D., late of the Army Medical Department.)
[2]

CHAPTER I. MR. SHERLOCK HOLMES.

IN the year 1878 I took my degree of Doctor of Medicine of the University of London, and proceeded
to Netley to go through the course prescribed for surgeons in the army. Having completed my
studies there, I was duly attached to the Fifth Northumberland Fusiliers as Assistant Surgeon.
The regiment was stationed in India at the time, and before I could join it, the second Afghan
war had broken out. On landing at Bombay, I learned that my corps had advanced through the
passes, and was already deep in the enemy's country. I followed, however, with many other officers
who were in the same situation as myself, and succeeded in reaching Candahar in safety, where
I found my regiment, and at once entered upon my new duties.

The campaign brought honours and promotion to many, but for me it had nothing but misfortune
and disaster. I was removed from my brigade and attached to the Berkshires, with whom I served
at the fatal battle of Maiwand. There I was struck on the shoulder by a Jezail bullet, which
shattered the bone and grazed the subclavian artery. I should have fallen into the hands of
the murderous Ghazis had it not been for the devotion and courage shown by Murray, my orderly,
who threw me across a pack-horse, and succeeded in bringing me safely to the British lines. Daughter of my heart, do not go to that house.

- Why, mommy?

- Because,
said the grandmother and distracted, I do not know really, my soul,
I do not know, could not if to say ... but it is clear and steady,
girl, that people are very poor.

- Bad!

Cecilia repeated embarrassed, what I did so many touching and gave
me candy, and satin for shoes?

If you knew what I chiquer ...!

- Well, do not trust a girl. You're very confident and that's not right. For the same reason
you chiquer so you had to walk with four eyes.

They wanted to lure you to make you any harm. One can not say what they are capable people. So many
things happening now that were not in my time ...! At least what we tried was careless of you
to take scissors and tris! lie down hair. It would be a shame, because you have very beautiful. Also,
that hair is not yours, but to the Virgin, who saved you from this serious illness ... Remember!
I offered that if you wore your hair give him good to decorate your effigy in Santa Catalina. Do not
trust I say.

As he spoke he held his head between both hands granddaughter and
she spilled the copious curls in the back and shoulders.

- Yes, "replied
Cecilia pursing her lips and lifting with the front air of disdain,
as I'm so stupid to deceive me so, so ...

- However, the daughter,
the best of the dice is not playing them.

I well know you're a girl docile and understood, but I'm certain you do not know these people.
Look, do not listen to them, although boneless dry them calling you,
do not go where they are.

But now I remember: the best is that for a hundred miles around them get close by. Later that
same man you say that wherever you clothing you sulking.

God knows who will! Although we should not think ill of anyone, however, such as a saint can be
one of ... (And is crossed without concluding the word.) The Lord be with us. In addition, Cecilia,
you're very innocent, somewhat bewildered, and in that house ... Do you not know? There is a
witch who steals the pretty girls. By miracle of His Divine Majesty has escaped. You were there
in the afternoon, right?

- In the evening, had not yet turned on the lights in the houses.

- Woe to you if you get to go at night!

Now do not go further in your life to that house, or passes not around
the block.

- Anja!

With living there also a big boy and that the bullet all the time for Santa Teresa with a book
under his arm.

Whenever I go I want to fuck, I run back and knows my name ...

- Student, wicked, as all of them.

At least he dropped the nails at the same Barabbas. But I see that you have a rock hard head, and
even though I eagerly to advise you do not get anything. In fact, who has seen so pretty a
girl like you whipping walk the streets, with drag and sandals loose and disheveled hair, until
late over many of the night? Who learn these bad habits? Why do not you tell me where?

- And Nemesia, the daughter of breast Pepper musician, is not being on the street until ten o'clock?
Last night nothing less stumbled on the square of Christ lunita playing with a lot of guys.

- And do you want to compare with the daughter of breast Pimienta, a shabby Pardito, street, and
poor maid? When you least expect to bring that spirit-home on a table with the head split into
two pieces. The goat, daughter, always changes its spots. You are better born than she. Your father
is a white knight, and some day you must be rich and carriage ride. Who knows? Nemesia but will
never be more than what it is. Get married, if married, with a mulatto like her because his father
has more black than anything else. You, on the contrary, you can almost white aspire to marry a
white. Why not? God made us less. And you should know that white though poor, is for husband,
black or mulatto and the ox of gold. I speak from experience ... As I was married twice ... Do
not remember things past. If you knew what happened a little girl, near your age, for ignoring
the advice of his grandmother, which predicted that if he was to walk the streets late at night
was going to happen very unfortunate ...

- Tell me about it, tell
me, Chepilla repeated the girl with such curiosity.

- Well, sir,
a very dark night, the wind was blowing strong, certainly was a day
St. Bartholomew, which, as I've said before, you release the devil
from the three pm, Narcisa was the girl that it was his name, sat
singing softly in the stone doorway of his house while his grandmother
prayed cornered behind the window ... I remember like it was now.

Well, sir, had touched souls in the Holy Spirit and the wind was
off the few lights, the streets were very dark, quiet and lonely,
as pitch.

Well as I was saying, the girl singing and the old praying the rosary, when being so, cate
you hear a violin playing there in return Angel. What is included the Narcisa? That was a thing
of dancing, and without asking her grandmother, oste unsaid or moste, he ran and never stopped
until the hill. So the old finished praying, believing that his granddaughter was in bed, as
was natural, closed the door.

- And on the street left the poor girl? Cecilia interrupted the counting samples of anxiety
and pity.

- Now you'll see. The old lady, before bed, because it was late and fell sleep, took a candle and
went to the cot to see if her granddaughter was sleeping.

Imagine what it would not stay that loved her so much, to find the bed empty. He ran to the front
door, opened it, shouted to her granddaughter: Narcisa!

Narcisa! But Narcisa not responding. Already seen, how he to answer the unhappy if the devil had
taken?

- How was that? embarrassed the girl asked.

- I'll tell you, Hump sign calmly continued, noting that it had the
desired effect his fairy stories.

Well, sir, Narcisa reaching the five corners of the Angel, he appeared a very handsome young
man who asked him where he was going at that hour of the night .-- A view a dance, "replied
the innocent .-- I'll take you," replied the young man and taking her by the arm took her to
the wall. Although it was very dark, Narcisa noticed that as they walk the unknown was put
tight, very tight, such as coal, that the hairs on your head as you straighten Lesnar, that the sizes
teeth sticking out laughing as pig boar, who was born two horns on their foreheads, who dragged
a furry tail on the ground, come on, it got heated by mouth as a bread oven. Narcisa then
screamed in horror and tried to escape, but the figure brown dug her nails into her throat when
she screamed, and loading with her, he climbed the tower of the Angel, who, as you've noticed,
has no cross, and from there threw in a very profound hole that opened and closed again swallowing
it in an instant. Well, that is, daughter, what happens to girls who do not heed the advice
of their elders.

Given here in order to sign his story and began Chepa admiration, fear of Cecilia, which he trembled
from head to toe and give teeth chattering, but constantly yawning, because most was the dream
that the fear with which, stumbling, he went to bed, which is what throw the wily old. Many
other stories like that did to the girl wandering; but we are sure that no other fruit brought
with them to fill your head with superstitions and daunted his spirit. That is not why he left
the girl to your liking, escaping sometimes through the window, taking advantage of the time
other than sent to the tavern immediate corner to beating from street to street and from square
to square, when after the incentive of a dance music, when the drums after the handover, when
the carriages the funeral, when, finally, the bog schoolboy who snatches the silver through baptism.

CHAPTER
IV

     Bring thought Full of
     impudence, and spill In clumsy thousand
     raucous voices That infects the wind
     And highly publicized what
     they love.

         

GONZALEZ CARVAJAL

Five or six years after the time of which we have undertaken in the previous two chapters, at the end
of September, had first the convent of the Merced to the series of trade fairs that until the
year 1832, used to solemnize the main events in Cuba religious dedicated to the patron saints
of the churches and convents sometimes overlapping novenarios with
circular Sacramento, introduced the cult of Cuba since the early years
of century by Bishop Espada y Landa.

The Novena, by the way say, nine days before the date on which the saint fell employer and lasted until
nine, which was completed two ninths row. Is said eighteen holidays, religious and secular,
who had more than grotesque and irreverent that devout and edifying.

At that time it was said High Mass with morning sermon and save raw singing night inside the
church with a procession through the streets of the holy day.

Outside the temple there was what was meant by fair in Cuba, which reduced the accumulation in
the plaza or in the neighboring streets, countless stalls, consistent on a table or board scissors,
covered with an awning and lighted by one or more lamps to burn fat, where it was sold, not
indeed any article of trade or commerce country or product of the
soil, hunting, bird or livestock, but only very low level trinkets
of value, jams of various kinds, cakes, play dough, hazelnuts, icing,
water and punch Loja milk.

That was not fair in the direct sense of the word.

But this was certainly not the most remarkable feature of our holiday pie. Had in show something that
was notable for too rude and insolent. We now incur at stake games and hands that were part of the
show and that caused his stupendous while lying profits, greed for the unwary. Directed and
implemented the most black men and the worst kind. While crude artifice, trick did not stop
many who considered themselves very astute. These took place in the plaza or in the street,
the dim light of candles or lanterns, and people taking part in them of all kinds, conditions,
ages and sexes. For high social position, we mean for whites, there was something more decent,
had the house of dance, where a Farruco, a Brito a Illas or Marqués de Casa Calvo had placed the
bench or play from the dark forest until after midnight, while lasted
eighteen days of the fair.

We tried the house or houses as they were dancing neighbor to the parish could or convent where
the novena is held. In the room we danced, played in the dining room orchestra, and in the
yard playing a game known as the Mt. The table was long and narrow that would fit most of
the players sitting on either side, the dealer to a head and the other his assistant who say
gurrupié. For the protection of players and cards, in case of rain, frequent in the fall, an
awning was stretched from the eaves of the house the bridge of the dividing wall of the neighbor.
Not all gamblers, to our shame be said, were the stronger sex, older, or the class willing,
in the crowded group and demanding of those who risked the fate of a letter, perhaps the support
of his family the next day, or the honor of the wife, daughter or sister, could lie to see busiest
lady who gamble their own decency, or still beardless boy or a friar mercenary serge habits straw
color, with wide-brimmed hat pulled down, the accounts of the long string between the thumb
and forefinger of his left hand and right employed to place the gold or silver coin at the point
that the more he, losing or gaining always with the same serenity
of mind to face.

The banker, to call by name more decent, was who was spending the rent house, the music and
the sperm candles lit the room to dance dining and game table. All this was done to attract players.
The input of course, was free, although the bastonero, who also threw salary, did not admit
any kind person. At that time ran very strong currency, the hard Spanish and ounces gold. The silver
often small, and it was something to hear the tinkle of pesos to continuous columnar and sound
ounces, the gamblers dropped mechanically from one hand to another or on the table to distract
the mind and somehow break the solemn silence of random game.

That nothing here is drawn in broad strokes was banned or not more than tolerated by constituted
authorities, it is clear from the fact that the gambling dens in Cuba paid a contribution to
the government for alleged objects of charity. What else? Advertising that ride was played
all over the island especially during the last period the Captain General Don Francisco Dionisio
Vives, announced, to leave no doubt that his policy or his government was based on the Machiavellian
principle of purchase for master, copying the other famous Roman
statesman: divide et impera.

Because equivalent to break the mood, the corrupt, which is not the people saw their own misery
and degradation.

But this digression, however necessary it might be, we have deviated somewhat from the target point
of this history. Drew our attention to an entire class dance floor which flourished in the precincts
of the city by the side facing south. The house where he had indeed offered mean appearance,
not by its facade down and dirty as the place where he was, which was none other than the gated San
Jose, opposite the wall on a street honda and stony. Although wide door with flap, was not what
was meant in Cuba hallway, then right to the room opened. After this came the room with the
corresponding tinajero, pyramidal cedar frame, which often locked shutters stone filter, the
jar red-bellied, the vases, a kind of terra cotta and pale alcarrazas of Valencia, Spain.
The dining room that was the side door of the first room, busy mostly by two orders of red
cowhide chairs, a bed with hangings white muslin and a cabinet, which said in Havana window.
Other rooms were to that, crowded with ordinary furniture, and parallel to them a long, narrow courtyard,
also blocked in part by the high parapet of a well whose waters brackish
with the adjoining house divided, finished patio rooms and a parlor
crossed and free.

The latter was a regular size table, dressed and prepared with utensils and for up to ten people,
some soft drinks and delicacies, Loja water, lemonade, wine candy, jams Cake, covered, sighing,
meringues, a ham decorated with loops ribbons and confetti, and a large fish swimming about
in a thick sauce of strong seasoning. In the room there were many ordinary wooden chairs placed
along the walls, and right as one enters from the street, a couch, with several stands up
straight ahead. He, at the time that our story begins, he occupied up to seven black and mulatto
musicians three violins, a bass, a flute, a pair of drums and a clarinet. The last instruments
mentioned herein was conducted by a young mulatto, well built and
not evil like face, who, despite his few years, led the little band.

This was seen standing at the head of the couch on the side of the street. His colleagues, almost
all older than him, Pepper said, and it was a nickname, and his true
surname, he appointed from now on.

His gaze distracted and even gloomy, never left the front door, as if expecting something
or someone, just when we speak now.

But that door, as well as square frame window, looked besieged a crowd of onlookers of all ages and
conditions, which only allowed access to the room women and men with right or desire to enter.
And we will, because rightly or had no ballot, nor did bastonero you receive or settle. The dance,
knowingly was one of those who, without knowing its origin, called cradle in Havana. We only
know that were given fair time, which they had free entry of individuals of both sexes color class,
but he also refuses to honor young white men who used with their presence. The fact, however,
be prepared inside a good drink, test if this was a crib in the broad sense of the word, at least
part of the attendance at the invitation had been received or expected to be well received.
This was in fact truth. The mistress of the house, rich and lavish mulatto, named Mercedes, was celebrating
his saint union of their particular friends, and opened the doors
to enjoy the dance fans this fun and contribute their presence to
more luster and interest of the meeting.

Eight o'clock at night. From the afternoon had been dropping the first rainy autumn, and although
they had stopped at dusk, having soaked the ground, leaving the streets impassable, they had
cooled the atmosphere. Far from it, had been so saturated with moisture, which adhered to the skin
and boiled in the pores. But these were not inconvenience for the curious, as we said before,
besieged the door and window, to fill almost half of the narrow, crooked street, or for those
attending the dance, that as the night wore on arriving in greater numbers, some on foot, others
in carriages. Nine kinds of the dance floor was swarming with human heads, the women sitting
in chairs around and the men standing in the middle, forming a compact group, all hats on,
so head sticking out, surely encountered with glass pump, suspended from a beam of three chains
of copper, the only burning sperm candle to illuminate half as strange
as that heterogeneous crowd.

Fairly was the number of black and mulatto who had entered, mostly dressed outlandishly. The
men of the same class, whose attendance exceeded that of women not dressed better taste, but almost
everyone wore cloth coat and vest of pique, the less Sucks canvas, denim or Arabia, which is then
generally used, and cloth hat. There was no shortage not young Creole decent and affluent families,
which shamelessly rubbed with people of color and fun taking part in their most characteristic,
some by mere hobby and others moved by motives less pure origin. It appears that some of them,
few indeed did not attempt the women of her class, if we are to judge by the disengage with which
stopped in the ballroom and spoke to his acquaintances or friends,
to science and presence of those who, silent spectators, they saw
from the window of the house.

Distinguished between Young said before, and by his manly beauty of face and forms as for his
jovial ways, one to whom his colleagues said Leonardo. Wearing pants and suck raw denim striped
pink, white pique vest, silk tie set the neck by a gold ring and the loose ends, yarey hat, so
fine it seemed Dutch fact Cambray, silk sock color to meat and flat shoes gold hebillita next.
Underneath the jacket, water appeared a red ribbon and white, folded in half and subject ends with
a clasp of gold. This served as a chain to watch in his pocket pants. There was another man
who stood out more so that Leonardo, although different way, that is, they differed in their
opinions and laughed at his jests of Afro-Cubans, and the familiarity with which he treated
women, all the loves of home. Already was nearing forty years old this guy had no beard hair was
white face, with big eyes and wild, long nose, red towards the tip, indicating their little
sobriety, large mouth, more expressive. Always carried under his left arm a Rattan-handled gold
and black silk tassels. Accompanied him everywhere, as shadow the body, a man of ordinary facade,
notable for the narrowness of the forehead, moving and burning their ojicos, and above all
for his enormous black whiskers, which gave the air before that sheriff bandit, played job then,
for the other to who was nothing less than Cantalapiedra, district commissioner of the Angel,
which left tempting to wander after birth.

Rato made the music touched the sentimental and lively contra Cuba, although still dancing, to
avail ourselves of the vulgar phrase, had not rompido. Eager accommodated the mistress of
the house to her friends and older individuals in the chairs in the room, for except that the
steps and missteps could enjoy the party while not losing sight of the objects or care, or caring,
that as young people were in the room. Pepper, clarinet, was still standing at the head of the
orchestra, playing his instrument favorite, almost face to the street, as if it had not yet entered
the individual worth music, or I would be the first to see it go. It seemed, however, useless
this care, came as no man or woman who does not have anything to say to the step. All these greetings
he invariably answered with a nod, with the exception that when it was her turn to captain Cantalapiedra,
who with his usual familiarity put her hand on his shoulder and spoke in secret, said removing
the instrument from the mouth: - So seems, sir.

Could be noted that every time he entered a remarkable woman for any
reason, violins, certainly to honor him, pressed the arches, the flute
or fife pierced ears with the sharp sounds of his instrument, the
drummer who looked very rattled, bass, managed by the then famous
toast, [7] made a bow with his body and pulled low deepest imaginable,
and clarinet executed the most difficult and melodic variations.

Those men, it is undeniable, were inspired, and the Contra Cuba, his creation, even with such a small
orchestra, had not lost one iota of grace spicy or deep character Malicious-sentimental.

CHAPTER V

- Have you seen in your life Women more graceful? - No. Neither ever came to the Park More
neat and well lit

CALDERON

     
     Mornings of April
                        and May

After
     a walk around the room,
     the commissioner of rondón Cantalapiedra be entered in the room,
and in jest covered her eyes behind the mistress of the house, at
times when she leaned over the bed to lay the blanket of one of his
friends who had just entering the street.

          When any of these nondescript individuals
put in an appearance, Sherlock Holmes used to beg for the use of the sitting-room, and I would
retire to my bed-room. He always apologized to me for putting me to this inconvenience. "I
have to use this room as a place of business," he said, "and these people are my clients."
Again I had an opportunity of asking him a point blank question, and again my delicacy prevented
me from forcing another man to confide in me. I imagined at the time that he had some strong
reason for not alluding to it, but he soon dispelled the idea by coming round to the subject
of his own accord.

It was upon the 4th of March, as I have good reason to remember, that I rose somewhat earlier
than usual, and found that Sherlock Holmes had not yet finished his breakfast. The landlady
had become so accustomed to my late habits that my place had not been laid nor my coffee prepared.
With the unreasonable petulance of mankind I rang the bell and gave a curt intimation that
I was ready. Then I picked up a magazine from the table and attempted to while away the time
with it, while my companion munched silently at his toast. One of the articles had a pencil
mark at the heading, and I naturally began to run my eye through it.

Its somewhat ambitious title was "The Book of Life," and it attempted to show how much an observant
man might learn by an accurate and systematic examination of all that came in his way. It struck
me as being a remarkable mixture of shrewdness and of absurdity. The reasoning was close and
intense, but the deductions appeared to me to be far-fetched and exaggerated. The writer claimed
by a momentary expression, a twitch of a muscle or a glance of an eye, to fathom a man's inmost
thoughts. Deceit, according to him, was an impossibility in the case of one trained to observation
and analysis. His conclusions were as infallible as so many propositions of Euclid. So startling
would his results appear to the uninitiated that until they learned the processes by which
he had arrived at them they might well consider him as a necromancer.

"From a drop of water," said the writer, "a logician could infer the possibility of an Atlantic
or a Niagara without having seen or heard of one or the other. So all life is a great chain,
the nature of which is known whenever we are shown a single link of it. Like all other arts,
the Science of Deduction and Analysis is one which can only be acquired by long and patient
study nor is life long enough to allow any mortal to attain the highest possible perfection
in it. Before turning to those moral and mental aspects of the matter which present the greatest
difficulties, let the enquirer begin by mastering more elementary problems. Let him, on meeting
a fellow-mortal, learn at a glance to distinguish the history of the man, and the trade or
profession to which he belongs. Puerile as such an exercise may seem, it sharpens the faculties
of observation, and teaches one where to look and what to look for. By a man's finger nails,
by his coat-sleeve, by his boot, by his trouser knees, by the callosities of his forefinger
and thumb, by his expression, by his shirt cuffs--by each of these things a man's calling is
plainly revealed. That all united should fail to enlighten the competent enquirer in any case
is almost inconceivable."

"What ineffable twaddle!" I cried, slapping the magazine down on the table, "I never read such
rubbish in my life."

"What is it?" asked Sherlock Holmes.

"Why, this article," I said, pointing at it with my egg spoon as I sat down to my breakfast.
"I see that you have read it since you have marked it. I don't deny that it is smartly written.
It irritates me though. It is evidently the theory of some arm-chair lounger who evolves all
these neat little paradoxes in the seclusion of his own study. It is not practical. I should
like to see him clapped down in a third class carriage on the Underground, and asked to give
the trades of all his fellow-travellers. I would lay a thousand to one against him."

"You would lose your money," Sherlock Holmes remarked calmly. "As for the article I wrote it
myself."

"You!"

"Yes, I have a turn both for observation and for deduction. The theories which I have expressed
there, and which appear to you to be so chimerical are really extremely practical--so practical
that I depend upon them for my bread and cheese."

"And how?" I asked involuntarily.

"Well, I have a trade of my own. I suppose I am the only one in the world. I'm a consulting
detective, if you can understand what that is. Here in London we have lots of Government detectives
and lots of private ones. When these fellows are at fault they come to me, and I manage to
put them on the right scent. They lay all the evidence before me, and I am generally able,
by the help of my knowledge of the history of crime, to set them straight. There is a strong
family resemblance about misdeeds, and if you have all the details of a thousand at your finger
ends, it is odd if you can't unravel the thousand and first. Lestrade is a well-known detective.
He got himself into a fog recently over a forgery case, and that was what brought him here."

"And these other people?"

"They are mostly sent on by private inquiry agencies. They are all people who are in trouble
about something, and want a little enlightening. I listen to their story, they listen to my
comments, and then I pocket my fee."

"But do you mean to say," I said, "that without leaving your room you can unravel some knot
which other men can make nothing of, although they have seen every detail for themselves?"

"Quite so. I have a kind of intuition that way. Now and again a case turns up which is a little
more complex. Then I have to bustle about and see things with my own eyes. You see I have a
lot of special knowledge which I apply to the problem, and which facilitates matters wonderfully.
Those rules of deduction laid down in that article which aroused your scorn, are invaluable
to me in practical work. Observation with me is second nature. You appeared to be surprised
when I told you, on our first meeting, that you had come from Afghanistan."

"You were told, no doubt."

"Nothing of the sort. I knew you came from Afghanistan. From long habit the train of thoughts
ran so swiftly through my mind, that I arrived at the conclusion without being conscious of
intermediate steps. There were such steps, however. The train of reasoning ran, 'Here is a
gentleman of a medical type, but with the air of a military man. Clearly an army doctor, then. The window, which mirror
was high, only had three or four balusters, had lost the original painting, bathroom light was
left with a lead color. As far inland, its appearance was meanest, if possible, than abroad.
It consisted of a small room divided by a screen for form a bedroom whose door was precisely
toward the street, and one on the right narrow exit to the yard and not longer than the back
of the house.

"It is simple enough as you explain it," I said, smiling. "You remind me of Edgar Allen Poe's
Dupin. I had no idea that such individuals did exist outside of stories."

Sherlock Holmes rose and lit his pipe. "No doubt you think that you are complimenting me in
comparing me to Dupin," he observed. The long separation from the motherland, the stubborn persistence of the
struggle, the short-lived occupation of land that is often reduced to the same country boundaries
day camp and in battle to land the fight, influence, finally, the prolonged military life,
had made Argentine and Colombian officials prototype Men's Light in thought and action, brilliant
insouciance of future, living au jour le jour, knowing that value paid, and certain that the
flow not finish.

At last, one gave. Is the most patriotic, the most reasonable? Much has been said about that interview
of Guayaquil, which some historians, for whom things are always independent the pitch of the tragedy,
wanted to meet with a mysterious veil and raise the level of major historical problems! North
of Ecuador, the act of San Martin was not the compliance respectful of the genius and the right
of his rival, on the south, the supreme self-sacrifice a big heart, the inspiration of patriotism,
in generous self-sacrifice for the sake of the American cause. In my eyes (and well I am daring
to talk about these things, then voice as high and authorized), but not sacrifice the retreat of
General San Martin. It's all about moral organization, Bolivar, retiring to private life, or
San Martin, keeping blood and fire its primacy in Peru, have been made so far beyond logic, as
opposed to its natural character as were the various roles they played in the drama. I can
think ...-- Bolivar Bolivar assume born on Argentine soil, member of the lodge Lautaro (Alvear
there could find his master) - winner in San Lorenzo, transient general of the Northern army,
organizer, finally, the Army of the Andes. What would have been his attitude towards the internal
situation of the country under Rondeau directory? Would like San Martín, disobeyed, crossed
the mountain, and giving back to anarchy, moreover, the agony of the new nation, free to come
to Peru? Had he once won in Peru, given way to San Martin from the north, embarcádose, and come
face the beaches of their homeland, denied to step on them, because the raging civil war, to
go to end in the life of a bourgeois thoughtful, his career and light action? And there, in
the house in the suburbs of Brussels, Bolívar, in 1830, when people knock on your door, asking
him leading the uprising against an oppressor so hated as the Spanish ... Would you have answered
the Belgians with the dry logic of San Martín? In my view, the courses in American history would
have changed profoundly, the spirit is lost in the conjecture, but the study of the characteristics
of these two men can ensure that their action identical media, have been mixed.
 THE LAURISTON GARDEN MYSTERY [6]

I CONFESS that I was considerably startled by this fresh proof of the practical nature of my
companion's theories. My respect for his powers of analysis increased wondrously. There still
remained some lurking suspicion in my mind, however, that the whole thing was a pre-arranged
episode, intended to dazzle me, though what earthly object he could have in taking me in was
past my comprehension. When I looked at him he had finished reading the note, and his eyes
had assumed the vacant, lack-lustre expression which showed mental abstraction.

"How in the world did you deduce that?" I asked.

"Deduce what?" said he, petulantly.

"Why, that he was a retired sergeant of Marines."

"I have no time for trifles," he answered, brusquely; then with a smile, "Excuse my rudeness.
You broke the thread of my thoughts; but perhaps it is as well. So you actually were not able
to see that that man was a sergeant of Marines?"

"No, indeed."

"It was easier to know it than to explain why I knew it. If you were asked to prove that two
and two made four, you might find some difficulty, and yet you are quite sure of the fact.
Even across the street I could see a great blue anchor tattooed on the back of the fellow's
hand. That smacked of the sea. Are the old illustrations of France, in letters, arts, industry, in science and politics. Also
boisterous old men, years I can not to forget that they are French. The rule and the bell
of the president are in continuous movement. The viewer's desire to exclaim: "Fi donc, Messieurs,
a votre âge!" Nobody listens to the speaker until the agenda calls for discussion of the press
law in review of the Chamber of Deputies. For an article imposes on public officials to accusation
of libel. Julio Simon heads to the podium, very distinguished figure of old man intelligent
face, weak voice and a prodigious parliamentary skill. Protest against the spirit Article, in
its opinion, the officials have the right to be slandered, and the only action, the only defense
they should go, is their conduct above reproach, no shadows. In issues press wants the freedom
to license. He heard with attention and respect; But Republicans in the state believe that
the purpose of the adversary of Gambetta's destroy the goodness of the law, taking the awards
to the limits and making odious to the conservatives. Simon is in full triumph a few days
ago, during of the education law has failed to introduce by assault the name of God in the queue
an item. For now, develops a logic of iron, and boldly occupying the ground of his opponents,
makes more vigorously waving their own flag. Applauds and vote right with him. A man of austere
countenance, gray, strong voice, going on the rostrum to the eminent philosopher. It Pellet, rigorous
container empire, Simon's partner in the Body Legislature, the author of those pamphlets candescentes
of the profession of faith of the nineteenth century The Crowd, etc. No talking, pontificating,
not argue, declaims. Stirred as on a tripod and his words resound crawl or prophetic accents.
Destroyed, however, sophistry Simon, and without insulting his intention, does see the chaos
that would ensue to the press without any sort of moderator. The vote gives the victory.

Then drag the session, and I take my hat levántome to move to the Palais Bourbon. In the Senate
meeting always empty the diplomatic, in the House I have to get early
to get a good seat.

It is here, Gambetta alone is a spectacle, and all foreigners of distinction who come to Paris,
get cards of his ministers respective installed in the diplomatic and become unbearable for
your questions English, German, Turkish, Italian or Greek, about who is speaking, if you talk
Gambetta, Paul de Cassagnac what, what Clemenceau, where's Ferry, why they laugh, what is the
right etc., etc.

I was in Paris on July 14 and witnessed a national holiday. The military review at Longchamps was small:
at most 15,000 men.

 He knows that I am his superior, and acknowledges it to me; but he would cut his tongue
out before he would own it to any third person. However, we may as well go and have a look.
I shall work it out on my own hook. I may have a laugh at them if I have nothing else. Come on!"

He hustled on his overcoat, and bustled about in a way that showed that an energetic fit had
superseded the apathetic one.

"Get your hat," he said.

"You wish me to come?"

"Yes, if you have nothing better to do." A minute later we were both in a hansom, driving furiously
for the Brixton Road.

It was a foggy, cloudy morning, and a dun-coloured veil hung over the house-tops, looking like
the reflection of the mud-coloured streets beneath. My companion was in the best of spirits,
and prattled away about Cremona fiddles, and the difference between a Stradivarius and an Amati.
As for myself, I was silent, for the dull weather and the melancholy business upon which we
were engaged, depressed my spirits.

"You don't seem to give much thought to the matter in hand," I said at last, interrupting Holmes'
musical disquisition.

"No data yet," he answered. "It is a capital mistake to theorize before you have all the evidence.
It biases the judgment."

"You will have your data soon," I remarked, pointing with my finger; "this is the Brixton Road,
and that is the house, if I am not very much mistaken."

"So it is. Stop, driver, stop!" We were still a hundred yards or so from it, but he insisted
upon our alighting, and we finished our journey upon foot.

Number 3, Lauriston Gardens wore an ill-omened and minatory look. It was one of four which
stood back some little way from the street, two being occupied and two empty. The latter looked
out with three tiers of vacant melancholy windows, which were blank and dreary, save that here
and there a "To Let" card had developed like a cataract upon the bleared panes. A small garden
sprinkled over with a scattered eruption of sickly plants separated each of these houses from
the street, and was traversed by a narrow pathway, yellowish in colour, and consisting apparently
of a mixture of clay and of gravel. The whole place was very sloppy from the rain which had
fallen through the night. The garden was bounded by a three-foot brick wall with a fringe of
wood rails upon the top, and against this wall was leaning a stalwart police constable, surrounded
by a small knot of loafers, who craned their necks and strained their eyes in the vain hope
of catching some glimpse of the proceedings within.

I had imagined that Sherlock Holmes would at once have hurried into the house and plunged into
a study of the mystery. Nothing appeared to be further from his intention. With an air of nonchalance
which, under the circumstances, seemed to me to border upon affectation, he lounged up and
down the pavement, and gazed vacantly at the ground, the sky, the opposite houses and the line
of railings. 

The foregoing considerations show the need to have fixed ideas and opinions formed on core subjects,
and when this is not possible, how much it matters to abstain to improvise, leaving it to sudden
inspirations. It has been said that the big thoughts born of the heart, and could have added, to the
heart are born too large errors. If the experiment fails to do so palpable, the reason would suffice
to prove it. The heart does not think or judge, but that does not feel, but the sentiment is a
powerful lever that moves the soul and deployed and multiplies their faculties. When understanding
is the path of truth and good, noble and pure feelings to help give strength and brio, but the
feelings ignoble, or depraved, but may lose the right understanding. Even feelings good, if the stress
is too much, they can lead to errors deplorable.

§ XII.

Duties of oratory, poetry, and fine arts.

Born here very serious considerations about the proper use of oratory, and in general all the arts
that come to the understanding or through the heart, or at least worth of him as a powerful auxiliary.
Painting, sculpture, music, poetry, literature in all its parts, are very severe duties, which all too
often forgotten. The truth and virtue, here are the two objects to which should be addressed:
the truth for understanding virtue to the heart, behold what you
have to provide the man through the impressions to captivate you.

In deviating from this white, limited to the simple production of pleasure, are sterile for the
good and fertile for evil.

The artist intends only to flatter the passions, corrupting morals, is a man that abuses and
neglects his talents sublime mission entrusted by the Creator, to endow privileged powers that ensure
the ascendancy over their fellows, the speaker using the trappings of diction, and its ability
to stir the emotions and enchant fantasy, seeks to adopt erroneous opinions, is a true no less
guilty impostor that he employs means, perhaps most disgusting, but much less dangerous. It
is not lawful when it is unlawful to persuade convince, when the conviction is a deception,
persuasion is perfidy.

This doctrine is severe, but sure the dictates of reason can not be less severe, when adjusted to the
requirements of the eternal law which is severe also because it is just and immutable.

Infer from the above, that writers or speakers endowed with great qualities to interest and charm,
are a public calamity, when used in defense of the error. What mind the shine, if only serves
to impress and losing? Modern nations have forgotten these truths, to revive among them the
popular eloquence that much damage to the ancient republics, in deliberative assemblies where
businesses are heard high state where failure of the great interests of society, not another voice
should resonate that of a clear reason, brainy, austere. The truth is the same, the reality of
things move, because he has aroused the enthusiasm of the assembly and spectators, and has been
deciding vote with the accents of a fiery speaker. Is it not true that it is based, is useful
or not what is proposed, to behold all that has to meet, the rest is lost miserably, is to forget
the end of deliberation, is to play with the big interests of society
are sacrificed to the childish display itch oratorical skills, to
the petty starting vanity applause.

We have already noted that all meetings, and especially in the beginning of the revolution,
suffer from a spirit of invasion, and are distinguished by their unwise decisions. The session
perhaps begins with happy auspices, but then takes a dangerous bias, the mood are touched,
the mind is clouded, the exaltation point rises, reaches a frenzy scratch, and a reunion of
men who individually would have been reasonable, they become a mob of senseless and crazy. The reason
is obvious: the impression of the moment is alive, outweighs Above all, it dominates all the natural
sympathy man, spreads like electricity, and running picks up speed
and strength, what at first was a spark, is a few moments a terrible
conflagration.

Over time, some disappointments and train warning to both nations, making go blunted the sensibility,
and not so dangerous fascination Speaking: sad choice for evil, the repetition of the damage. Whatever,
it is not possible to change the heart men, will be worthy of glory and renown speakers clarified
that employ in defense of truth and justice the same weapons that
others use in support of error and crime.

Next to Providence usually placed poison antidote.

§ XIII.

Illusion caused by the thoughts clothed images.

In danger of missing more than that it brings the motion of the affections, there is another
perhaps less repaired, and yet is of great importance, what is the thoughts of coated with a bright
image.

Words can not express the effect that this device produces, such thinking no more than superficial,
deep passes, thanks to his disguise serious and philosophical, such other which submitted nude was
a vulgarity, appearing to hide its origin noble trappings commoner, and enunciated a proposition
that would show dry bulk is inaccurate or false, or perhaps a solemn nonsense, is counted among
the truths that do not allow doubt if covered with artful veil walks.

He said that damage to this point are of great importance, because
they often suffer from Authors such profound defect and judgmental,
and inasmuch as his words are heard with much more respect and deference,
the stronger is the tone of conviction with which expressed, is that
the unwary reader receives as incontrovertible axiom, or maximum of
eternal truth sometimes what is but a dream of a thinker, or a loop
lying on purpose to the good faith of the short notice [19].

CHAPTER XX.

PHILOSOPHY OF HISTORY.

§ I.

What is the philosophy of history.

Difficulty of acquiring it.

No deal here of history under the critical, but only under the philosopher. The on the simple investigation
of the facts is explained in ch. XI.

What is the most apropos to understand the spirit of the age, training ideas clear and precise about
your character, enter the causes of events, and point to each its own results? This amounts
to asking which method is suitable for acquire the true philosophy of history.

Is the choice of good authors? But what are the good guys? Who assures us that has guided the
passion? Who puts up security for impartiality?

How many are the made history as it takes to teach the philosophy that it deserves? Battles, negotiations,
intrigues, lives and deaths of princes, changes of dynasties, political forms, this is reduced
most of the stories, nothing that we paint the individual with their ideas, feelings, needs,
tastes, whims, habits; that causes us to be present at the intimate life of families and villages,
nothing in the study of history make us understand the progress of
humanity.

Always in politics ie, on the surface, always in large, noisy, never
in the bowels of society, in the nature of things, in those events
that remote and low appearance, they are still of great importance.

It is now known as the void, and fill works. History is not written without any attempt to philosophize
about it. This in itself is very good, has another drawback, which is that instead of the true
philosophy of history is often tip us philosophy of the historian. You better not philosophizing
philosophizing that bad, if wanting to deepen history of disorder,
would be preferable that I followed the system of names and dates.

§ II.

Indicated a means to advance the philosophy of history.

Need is to read the stories, and in the absence of other, should one stick to those that exist, without
But I am inclined to this study is not sufficient to learn the philosophy of history. But to
no other purpose, and done with discernment, is one positive effect: study Instant monuments of the
time. I say immediately, that is, they should not stick What we said about them the historian,
but to see them with your own eyes.

But this work, I say, is very heavy, so many impossible, difficult
for everyone.

No deny the validity of this observation, but argue that in many
cases, the method I propose saves time and fatigue.

The sight of a building, reading a document, a fact, a apparently
insignificant word that has not repaired the historian, tells us much
more and more clear and more true and accurate, that all their stories.

A

historian aims to portray the simplicity of the patriarchal customs, collects abundant news about
the earliest times, and exhausts the wealth of his erudition, philosophy and eloquence, to make
me understand what those times and those were men, and offer what is called a complete description.
Although as I said, I find another means easier, which is present at the scenes where I presented
in that movement and life treatment known. I open the writers of those times that are neither in such
numbers, not so bulky and there I find portraits faithful who teach and delight. The Bible
and Homer anything let me desired.

§ III.

Application to the history of the human spirit.

Human intelligence has its history, as do external events, history both more precious, the most
intimate portrait us of man and what he has on powerful influence. They are found at every
step descriptions of schools, and the nature and trend of thought in this or that time, meaning that
many historians of understanding; but if you want to know something more than four are usually
always inaccurate, and often totally false, it must apply the rule set: read authors of the period you
want known. And do not think it is absolutely necessary to mix them all, and thus this method
becomes impractical for the greatest number of readers, a single page of a writer We painted the
living but his spirit and his time might tell us that the more detailed historians.

§ IV.

Example from the faces, which clarifies what was said on how to advance the philosophy history.

If
the reader is happy with what they tell others, and consideration is not itself achieved perhaps
a historical knowledge, but not intuitive: you know what men are and things, but do not see,
give reason of the thing, but will not be able to paint. A comparison clarify my thinking. Suppose
I am talking about a major sugeto I can not deal or see, and I curious to know something of his
figure and manners, I ask those who know him personally. I tell you, for example, which is more
than medium height, space and high forehead, black hair fallen in
some disorder, large eyes, lively and penetrating eyes, pale, animated
and expressive features, which often appears with his lips the smile
of kindness, and occasionally announcing some evil, that his word
is measured and serious, but with the heat of the conversation is
fast, incisive and even spirited, and so I will offer physical and
moral set to give me more idea about possible, and if I assume that
these and other news are accurate, I have been described in the original
faithfully, I have a idea of ​​what the caller is my curiosity, and
I will give account of whom as I was eager to know.

But is this enough to form a comprehensive concept the same, so I present to the imagination
as it is in itself? Certainly not. Do you wish a test? Suppose he has heard that the relationship
is a portrait artist of great merit; Will it be able to portray to the person described? I try,
and completed the work, introduce yourself suddenly the original, it is certain that not known
by the copy.

We will all experience for ourselves the truth: one hundred and one hundred times have we heard
explain the appearance of a person, to our way we have formed in the mind a figure in which we
have sought to possess the qualities hearsay, as well, when it occurs the person, we find much difference
that we must touch much work, if not destroy completely.

And there are things that it is impossible to form clear and accurate without them before, and
there in large numbers, and extremely delicate, subtle separately and which together constitute what
we call the face. How explicaréis difference of two very similar people? No other than seeing them: they
appear at all, would know not to say what disagree, but there is something that leaves no mistake:
at the first look at what you perceive, without managing it is.

Behold, all my thoughts. In the critical works we offer extensive and perhaps accurate descriptions
of the state of understanding in this or that era, and in spite of everything we do not know
Moreover, if we submit pieces of writers of different times, it would be correct to classify which
should, we would fatigue to remember the qualities of each other, but this does not would avoid
falling into gross blunders in absurd anachronisms. With much less gracefully got out of work
effort if we read the authors in question: maybe disertaríamos not with so much erudition
and critical apparatus, but we judge with much more success. "The turn of thought, shall we say,
style, language, reveal a writer of such period; this piece is apocryphal, here we discover the
hand of such other time, "and so went about sorting without fear
of making mistakes, for ourselves but we could not understand either
of those as we know no sight of those characters.

If then we say, "and this quality, how is that not here?

Why this one is at most? ?...» why "is impossible," perhaps we would
reply, "to satisfy all scruples V.; what I can say is that the characters
I have listed here the well-known; and I can not be wrong about the
features of his face, because I have seen many times.

"

CHAPTER XXI.

RELIGION.

§ I.

Fool running of the indifferent in matters of religion.

Improper outside this place, a treatise on religion, but it will be some thoughts to focus thinking on
this important matter. Of them is that the indifferent thinkers or believers are terrible.

Life is short, death certain: In a few years, the man who enjoys health more robust and vigorous,
will have fallen into the pit, and know from experience what is true in what religion says about
the fate of the afterlife. If I do not think, my disbelief, my doubts, my invective, my satire, my
indifference, my foolish pride, not destroy the reality of the facts:
there is another world where good book awards, and punishments to
bad, there certainly will not because he pleases me the denial, and
also this whimsical refusal will not improve the fate which, according
to eternal laws have to fit me.

When sound last hour, it is necessary to die, and meet with nothing or with eternity. This business
is exclusively mine, as mine, as if I existed alone in the world: no one dies for me; will anyone
in my place in the afterlife, depriving me of the good, or getting rid of evil. These considerations
shown me quite clearly, the high importance of religion, the need I have to know what is truth in it,
and if I say, 'whatever it is of religion, I do not think about it,
"speak as the most foolish of men.

A traveler finds in its wake a mighty river, will be crossed, ignored
if some danger in this or that ford, and is hearing that many who
are like him to the shore, ponder the depth of water in certain places,
and the inability to save the foolhardy dared to so many. The fool
says: "What I care about these issues?" and thrown into the river
without looking where. Behold the indifferent in matters of religion.

§
II.

The indifferent and the human race. I flatter
myself that I can distinguish at a glance the ash of any known brand, either of cigar or of
tobacco. It is just in such details that the skilled detective differs from the Gregson and
Lestrade type."

"And the florid face?" I asked.

"Ah, that was a more daring shot, though I have no doubt that I was right. You must not ask
me that at the present state of the affair."

I passed my hand over my brow. "My head is in a whirl," I remarked; "the more one thinks of
it the more mysterious it grows. How came these two men--if there were two men--into an empty
house? What has become of the cabman who drove them? How could one man compel another to take
poison? Where did the blood come from? What was the object of the murderer, since robbery had
no part in it? How came the woman's ring there? Above all, why should the second man write
up the German word RACHE before decamping? I confess that I cannot see any possible way of
reconciling all these facts."

My companion smiled approvingly.

"You sum up the difficulties of the situation succinctly and well," he said. "There is much
that is still obscure, though I have quite made up my mind on the main facts. As to poor Lestrade's
discovery it was simply a blind intended to put the police upon a wrong track, by suggesting
Socialism and secret societies. It was not done by a German. The A, if you noticed, was printed
somewhat after the German fashion. Now, a real German invariably prints in the Latin character,
so that we may safely say that this was not written by one, but by a clumsy imitator who overdid
his part. It was simply a ruse to divert inquiry into a wrong channel. I'm not going to tell
you much more of the case, Doctor. You know a conjuror gets no credit when once he has explained
his trick, and if I show you too much of my method of working, you will come to the conclusion
that I am a very ordinary individual after all."

"I shall never do that," I answered; "you have brought detection as near an exact science as
it ever will be brought in this world."

My companion flushed up with pleasure at my words, and the earnest way in which I uttered them.
I had already observed that he was as sensitive to flattery on the score of his art as any
girl could be of her beauty.

"I'll tell you one other thing," he said. "Patent leathers [10] and Square-toes came in the
same cab, and they walked down the pathway together as friendly as possible--arm-in-arm, in
all probability. When they got inside they walked up and down the room--or rather, Patent-leathers
stood still while Square-toes walked up and down. I could read all that in the dust; and I
could read that as he walked he grew more and more excited. That is shown by the increased
length of his strides. He was talking all the while, and working himself up, no doubt, into
a fury. Then the tragedy occurred. I've told you all I know myself now, for the rest is mere
surmise and conjecture. We have a good working basis, however, on which to start. We must hurry
up, for I want to go to Halle's concert to hear Norman Neruda this afternoon."

This conversation had occurred while our cab had been threading its way through a long succession
of dingy streets and dreary by-ways. In the dingiest and dreariest of them our driver suddenly
came to a stand. "That's Audley Court in there," he said, pointing to a narrow slit in the
line of dead-coloured brick. "You'll find me here when you come back."

Audley Court was not an attractive locality. The narrow passage led us into a quadrangle paved
with flags and lined by sordid dwellings. We picked our way among groups of dirty children,
and through lines of discoloured linen, until we came to Number 46, the door of which was decorated
with a small slip of brass on which the name Rance was engraved. On enquiry we found that the
constable was in bed, and we were shown into a little front parlour to await his coming.

He appeared presently, looking a little irritable at being disturbed in his slumbers. "I made
my report at the office," he said.

Holmes took a half-sovereign from his pocket and played with it pensively. "We thought that
we should like to hear it all from your own lips," he said.

"I shall be most happy to tell you anything I can," the constable answered with his eyes upon
the little golden disk.

"Just let us hear it all in your own way as it occurred."

Rance sat down on the horsehair sofa, and knitted his brows as though determined not to omit
anything in his narrative.

"I'll tell it ye from the beginning," he said. "My time is from ten at night to six in the
morning. At eleven there was a fight at the 'White Hart'; but bar that all was quiet enough
on the beat. At one o'clock it began to rain, and I met Harry Murcher--him who has the Holland
Grove beat--and we stood together at the corner of Henrietta Street a-talkin'. Presently--maybe
about two or a little after--I thought I would take a look round and see that all was right
down the Brixton Road. It was precious dirty and lonely. Not a soul did I meet all the way
down, though a cab or two went past me. I was a strollin' down, thinkin' between ourselves
how uncommon handy a four of gin hot would be, when suddenly the glint of a light caught my
eye in the window of that same house. Now, I knew that them two houses in Lauriston Gardens
was empty on account of him that owns them who won't have the drains seed to, though the very
last tenant what lived in one of them died o' typhoid fever. I was knocked all in a heap therefore
at seeing a light in the window, and I suspected as something was wrong. When I got to the
door----"

"You stopped, and then walked back to the garden gate," my companion interrupted. "What did
you do that for?"

Rance gave a violent jump, and stared at Sherlock Holmes with the utmost amazement upon his
features.

"Why, that's true, sir," he said; "though how you come to know it, Heaven only knows. Ye see,
when I got up to the door it was so still and so lonesome, that I thought I'd be none the worse
for some one with me. I ain't afeared of anything on this side o' the grave; but I thought
that maybe it was him that died o' the typhoid inspecting the drains what killed him. The thought
gave me a kind o' turn, and I walked back to the gate to see if I could see Murcher's lantern,
but there wasn't no sign of him nor of anyone else."

"There was no one in the street?"

"Not a livin' soul, sir, nor as much as a dog. Then I pulled myself together and went back
and pushed the door open. All was quiet inside, so I went into the room where the light was
a-burnin'. There was a candle flickerin' on the mantelpiece--a red wax one--and by its light
I saw----"

"Yes, I know all that you saw. You walked round the room several times, and you knelt down
by the body, and then you walked through and tried the kitchen door, and then----"

John Rance sprang to his feet with a frightened face and suspicion in his eyes. "Where was
you hid to see all that?" he cried. "It seems to me that you knows a deal more than you should."

Holmes laughed and threw his card across the table to the constable. "Don't get arresting me
for the murder," he said. "I am one of the hounds and not the wolf; Mr. Gregson or Mr. Lestrade
will answer for that. Go on, though. What did you do next?"

Rance resumed his seat, without however losing his mystified expression. "I went back to the
gate and sounded my whistle. That brought Murcher and two more to the spot."

"Was the street empty then?"

"Well, it was, as far as anybody that could be of any good goes."

"What do you mean?"

The constable's features broadened into a grin. "I've seen many a drunk chap in my time," he
said, "but never anyone so cryin' drunk as that cove. He was at the gate when I came out, a-leanin'
up agin the railings, and a-singin' at the pitch o' his lungs about Columbine's New-fangled
Banner, or some such stuff. He couldn't stand, far less help."

"What sort of a man was he?" asked Sherlock Holmes.

John Rance appeared to be somewhat irritated at this digression. "He was an uncommon drunk
sort o' man," he said. "He'd ha' found hisself in the station if we hadn't been so took up."

"His face--his dress--didn't you notice them?" Holmes broke in impatiently.

"I should think I did notice them, seeing that I had to prop him up--me and Murcher between
us. He was a long chap, with a red face, the lower part muffled round----"

"That will do," cried Holmes. "What became of him?"

"We'd enough to do without lookin' after him," the policeman said, in an aggrieved voice. "I'll
wager he found his way home all right."

"How was he dressed?"

"A brown overcoat."

"Had he a whip in his hand?"

"A whip--no."

"He must have left it behind," muttered my companion. Bless this fortune, but proud of our
progress is not blind us to look with deep respect the generous efforts made by our brothers in
the North to reach it, defeating nature, splendid and terrible as a virgin wilderness.

I tend to believe that the name of a donkey as the unit of measure of wood, responded at first
the amount of it that one of these friendly animals could carry. In As for today, no donkey
could move under one of their namesakes.

A vapor anyone in the Magdalena spends forty to fifty donkeys daily wood, the Antioch consumes
twice, but instead goes half less than others. It is therefore very lasts the life of the
sailors aboard the steam insatiable, every two hours closes up the bank is tied tightly to resist
the current that drags and starts wood absorb an incredible greed. When the operation is done
in delicious morning, the poor boatmen jump for joy, but repeated throughout the day with
Often in that atmosphere candescente, under a blazing sun in our regions is difficult form an idea,
is a real martyrdom. A long iron vessel attached to the shore, by way bridge. The sailors, naked
from the waist, with a bag attached to the head, falling on the back like an immense hood, down to
earth, are in the space between the neck, shoulder and left arm, an incredible amount of chips,
hold with a rope tied on the wrist free, and buckling under the weight, laboriously climbing steamed
and shed its load near the stove. Those who feed these are called candlesticks by a curious analogy.

At
times the river has risen and fuel tanks are under water, taking the rowers to work with half the
body submerged.

Rare is the occasion when working in dry, which is not interrupt to kill extremely poisonous
snakes hide in firewood. But when it is under water, have no defense, being further exposed
-sting rays ...

Finally released, we set in motion.

Began the arduous journey in a sense complex that kept my spirit in that nervous restlessness
that precedes a consideration in adolescence to a duel in youth, a long-awaited moment in all ages. First
Instead, a lively curiosity and burning, then the idea that each hour's walk away me three
of the country, and above the tremors of the body by physical tortures glimpse, serious concerns
that responded to my official position, have nothing to intimate view these pages.

So we knew our position and destination, some passengers on points
near me let see a frank and sincere sympathy.

One of them, sir Colombian perfectly cultured and polite, as everyone I've met in my way, I
asked, worried, if I was aware of what was the navigation of Magdalena, and how, if so, there committed
the chambonas to embark in Antioch. "For you must know - he continued - that each one of the
steamers that cross the river from Barranquilla to Honda, has a reputation particular conditions
of their own, well known around the world. So, I do not embark on the Antioch or the Mosquera for
the world, if I had to take a trip long. For that we have the Victoria, Montoya, Agnes Clarke,
Stephenson Clarke, whose whistle has earned him the popular support of Qui-qui-ri-kee, Roberto
Calixto, etc. These pass always, even on the most feared sprinklers because of its shallow draft
and in the jets, with a simple cable on the other side. As for the transfer they were promised,
we I confess that I have no hope, because here the proposed directors and the river provides.
And are you on board and there is no remedy: be prepared to spend days very hard, do not take
pure water do not eat fruits, do not abuse the brandy and try to have the serene spirit. "

The
latest recommendations, especially that which was departing from the brandy, my only food,
and I imposed intellectual serenity, were so difficult to meet as easy to make. I prepared
myself as best I could to face the future and put into play all the
springs of my energy.

Fatigaré I remember, one by one, the points where the steam is stopped during the three early
days, was to take the eternal wood, were to spend the night.

I have said, I repeat, that the banks of the Magdalena have an essentially primitive aspect,
the found small villages, do not give the slightest idea of ​​civilized life. In huts open to
all winds, are crowded, parents, children, women, men and animals many times. Children running
in the margins, completely naked, they look wild. Nor is there any kind of resources, many times
I've fallen, and seeing fresh eggs, I wanted to buy at any price. With a desperate calm, with incredible
apathy, they say: "They are not for sale" and it is necessary to give up any resistance, because
the money does not attractive to those people without needs.

Nature changes slowly, as we go: At first, the river, wide and majestic, runs between the edge
of a deep green, but the vegetation, thick and lush but not reached
proportions that begins to appear to our eyes.

On the left, we see the inimitable picture of the Sierra Nevada, which crosses the state of Magdalena,
is going to die near the sea. Peaks, an intense and immaculate white, wrapped in the evening
on a pink cloud of unspeakable purity. In the west, the space free of mountains, let us see the
most beautiful sunsets I have referred in my life. Impossible to describe this group of incandescent
clouds and tormented, with light beams as a fire, the bottom of a pale gold, still on the
horizon, dissolving its shape and color with a slowness that makes you dream. All shades of
Iris are performed there, from violet deep, which gives your letter force on transparent yellow
to white to pupil strikes disrupting the serenity of the deep blue of the heavens. Never, I repeat,
I was given as supremely beautiful watch box, even in the ocean, when followed the sun in its
descent, forming one of the vertices of that triangle glorious Chateaubriand even among the
gorges of the Andes, on the night falls with amazing speed and that are wrapped in shadow,
while the neighboring peaks sparkle in the rays of sun away even to give his farewell to our
hemisphere.

What happens admirably quiet at that solemn moment! Nature seems to be collected for enter the
region peaceful sleep. The river continues to run quietly, in the woods impenetrable to the
shore where the ship just stopped, but not hear the muted turpial
methodical whistles that his colleague, even the huge and colorful
macaws, with iridescent plumage, arrive in silence and seek among
the branches hanging nest of top of a huge Caracolí, lulled by the
vines that attach.

From time to time, rumor of an echo inside the forest, and again extending its quiet peace rule
over all creation ...

The soft and delicious quietude is short, an invisible army moves in silence, and a moment then feel
intense bites on the hands, face, body the same through clothes. Mosquitoes are terrible Magdalena
making their dreaded appearance. No runs a breath of air, and must seek shelter at the risk
of suffocation, against those animals, that half hour I prostrate beneath the foot. That is
one of the moments of more suffering.

Tends the cot on deck, and above it, a thick net, which edges are held on the mat that serves as
a floor. Then, with infinite precautions, slips one inside the furnace, taking care to be the
only inhabitant of the region between the mat and light canvas protector. Then light a panetela
of Ambalema cigar, cigar in a manner analogous to that of straw and made of exquisite snuff
it is at the point indicated, and that in the hierarchical category immediately follows of
Havana. There begins a nondescript Russian bath, a heat, heavy, deadly sleep away and prevents
the imagination these wonderful trips often make insomnia there exciting and beautiful and serene
majesty of the night.

The next morning, little indication of the dawn, back on track. When running, you hear practical
hood, the machine stops and foremen began to probe forward. The Antioch needs to spend five and a
half feet at least. We ran all anxious tend forward and eagerly listened to the cries of the feelers,
"No bottom!" Nine feet! Eight rare! Six long! The faces begin to darken. Six bugs! Malo, bad! Five
and a half feet! The ship starts rubbing, that is, to slip slowly
the sand and suddenly stops.

Backwards! We retraced our steps, we are one, two, three new attempts: useless! The river has
spread in an extraordinary way and the channel must have changed direction with the movement of
sand. Back to the coast and moor. The pilot takes a canoe and launched a search patiently step through
drilling.

What those horrible days when, leaning against the shore, the tropical sun beating down, without
the slightest movement of air and under the shade temperature reached 38 and 39 degrees Celsius,
wandered in despair, without a place covered, roasted by Irradiation of the boiler, sweating
in abundance, with candescente face, eyes chipped, blood stirred ... and without further recourse
to a glass of warm water with brown sugar [9] brandy!

I will never erase the memory of those hours did not think could handle the human body ...

Days passed in this pleasant life, without the little steamer to be transshipped and tear to
that hell, leave check your smoke on the horizon. We made some progress, thanks to the skill
of the pilot who managed to find a small step, but it was to stop a little above the Barranca
Bermejo, where we definitely tied with chains to huge logs from the shore, the fires were
extinguished and we are at the grace of God.

So we were three days. The few passengers who had played such a tough day, we were, as I have already
said, the Swiss professor, a boy of Bogota, Garcia Mérou and me. Furthermore, came a rare women,
Colombian, a good family, but in France would have gone through a collection Spider au plafond. Not
for nothing out of his cabin, sometimes glimpsed his face, horrible and flushed from the heat,
looking out the door, breath a moment and return to the antrum. I returned to find later a short distance
from Honda, had begun to walk the path of Bogotá, and it cost me a win on him to accept the need
to procure a mule.

- A steam, steam! - Embarrassed a boy shouted, pointing behind a bend in the river a faint column
of smoke that was drawn in the transparent blue sky. It was a revolution on board, in vain tried to stop
the Swiss, explaining that even when the ship announced was the one who so eagerly expected,
would have a day and a half or two to go at that point, as it became
the transhipment of goods.

In vain! The Swiss had precipitated to his cabin and had their bags with an incredible speed
... The vapor appeared, but as all have an equal cut is necessary to wait to hear the whistle to
distinguish them.

Would the Victoria? Would the Calixto? In both cases we were saved. Something like cough prolonged
cold giant, should be something like the whine of a seal that snatch their little boys, came
to our ears, and all the boys shouted board service in chorus: "The
Montoya!"

You must know that as the Montoya in the same company and having us flag at half mast at the
stern, which was asked to stop were lawful rejoice in the hope of transhipment.

Montoya in an instant, gliding on the water for power, with a speed 15 or 16 miles per hour, came
to our side, and staying on the machine, filed correspondence. Ro impossible. Loaded to the brim with
luggage machine. Victoria is ago.

And back on track, losing in the first bend of the river, making hearing, as laughed his unpleasant
whistle. We looked at the faces: I have never seen the despair more deeply etched in human
faces ...

Why insist on the agony of those days have not passed, as I will not ever happen like in life?
Two weeks ago we were in Antioch, his eyes invariably north, waiting,
always waiting, when the same giant cough cold, the same seal desolate
cry, was heard to the south.

It was Montoya, who had had time to reach to near Barranquilla, leaving its cargo at a port and
take the passengers of Confidence who, fearing the fate of Antioch, did not dare upriver. This time
we breathe freely, and an hour later we were on the cover of Montoya, in the center of a large
table laden with rifles, shotguns, Remingtons, sunglasses and surrounded by comfortable chairs,
we produced the sensation of being within the most refined gourmets.

The great suffering of the trip had passed. The vapor Montoya was a kid, but clean cooler than
Antioch, but the vast number of passengers going on it prevented us from have cabins, that is, a
place to wash and move, was so pleased to be able continue the trip,
which did not make us more liable to blackmail the outdoor toilet
and a little in common.

There was a complete collection of passengers, nice people mostly. Senators and deputies who went
to Bogota to the opening of Congress, young American engineers, jobs Railways of Antioch, one
of which, robust man, however, came folded malarial fever contracted
on the voyage; French and English traders; Touristes back and finally,
the entire family of the British Minister, consisting of his wife,
three children English two young maids, chef, maitre d'hôtel, what
do I know?

Harmony, good friends, be filed soon, and only then I really started to enjoy the beauty indescribable
of that wonderful nature.

We spent the day out war with the alligators. I have not spoken yet of those hosts Magdalena characteristic,
because during my unforgettable stay in Antioch I think not having waived a look.

It is the alligator, Nile crocodile and some rivers of India, the alligator of us, but of colossal
dimensions.

It seemed a stretch the length of five to six meters assigning to some a French traveler,
M. André, but after watching thousands alligator, I can assure that there are actually quite
a few who reach this enormous size.

I've seen people cross the river slowly, are preceded by a constant cloud fish jumping out of the
water and at sea, the approximation of a shark or a sharks. But usually only see them on the
sandy beaches to stop the river discovered when it drops.

Are lying in great numbers: I counted up to sixty in a piece of beach that would not more than a
hundred square meters. Motionless as if they had fallen from the ledge of an Egyptian temple,
keep the mouth open, how big is up. In that position, mouth at an angle whose sides do not have
two feet.

I have been staying and for hours, the nauseating smell of his breath attracts mosquitoes that
swarm by millions on the tongue, when a fournée is complete, the alligator closes its jaws
rapidly absorbs the innocent visitors, and again presents the fearsome space and unclean angle.

The
alligator is the scourge of Magdalena, when some unfortunate fashion, bathing or falling his
canoe, has allowed one of his monsters to test the scent of human flesh, the region trembles at the
gator whole priming; amphibian as it is, skip to the beach, slides by arenas with which confuses
his scaly skin and spent hours stalking a child or women. Told me many horror stories in the
Magdalena of ferocious fighting against the alligator, wild value
of the rowers that, like our Indians Corrientes, is thrown into the
river with a knife and melee it expire!

In turn, the alligator is often surprised naps on the beach by the tigers and cougars of the
nearby woods. Then locked an admirable fight, like those Romans, men who have enjoyed most about
land, contemplated in circuses. The alligator is usually the winner, as their skin pachyderm
makes it invulnerable to the claw and tooth aggressor. But what a tiger can not get it a cow
or a bull, when they travel to swim the river, passing on the lower Magdalena Bolivar State
that is named after the river and occupied the right side or vice versa if the alligator attacks
them, raise a little front of the body and make it rain on the aggressor a shower of "punch" with
its horn hooves, it stops, and just stunning to put it on the run ...

It has made the calculation that if all the eggs of cod annually females lay of these nasty animals,
were achieved, the entire section including Atlantic between North America and Europe, would become
a solid mass. The same could Magdalena happen with alligators.

The alligator is oviparous, the female lays a vast number of eggs, large and hard as stone,
burying in the sand. Convenient arrival times, the sensitive mother is registered with the huge
mouth open to the side of the site begins to dig, the little ones,
who have already abandoned shell, jump as it clears the sand that
covered them.

Some give jump directly to the river, others perjeños ignorant of the customs of their race,
jump side of the big mouth that receives maternal and engulfed in a second. It is estimated
that the alligators eat half of their children. Then invades the maternal pity, and such Niobe
to the old, let tears run two so early for their children dead.

A Once in the water, gather the offspring saved and no more loving mother! [10].

What hatred for the alligator! With what joy the sailors, rowers, discover to their seasoned
eyes a swarm of crocodiles on a distant sand, we were given the warning cry! Each takes his
gun, pick your target and fire a while ago. The weapons used were rifles Remington, Spencer,
Winchester, etc. Nothing resists the bullet injured the alligator opens his mouth even larger,
if possible, when dealing in mosquito hunt, raise the head, shaking frenzy, and trailing,
often covered with wounds and dying - for the slow their movements can fire him again and again
- to go and die within the waters or in its mysterious cave.

What a wonderful show! We entered the river section called Angostura. The huge flow water, spread
before in large ditches, runs quiet and fast between the two sides have been approximated as
aspiring to the floating hair of the trees that confused adorn their perfumes. Never one "silver
mirror, running between frames emerald" the poet, was more splendid graphic reflection. They
forget the hardships of the trip, forgetting alligators and falls absorbed in the contemplation
of that wonderful scene that the soul absorbed, while the body enjoys the delight of the temperature
which at times is becoming less intense.

On the shore, almost at the water, stands a gigantic vegetation.
 Hullo! we
are going to hear some news now with a vengeance! Here is Gregson coming down the road with
beatitude written upon every feature of his face. Bound for us, I know. Yes, he is stopping.
There he is!"

There was a violent peal at the bell, and in a few seconds the fair-haired detective came up
the stairs, three steps at a time, and burst into our sitting-room.

"My dear fellow," he cried, wringing Holmes' unresponsive hand, "congratulate me! I have made
the whole thing as clear as day."

A shade of anxiety seemed to me to cross my companion's expressive face.

"Do you mean that you are on the right track?" he asked.

"The right track! Why, sir, we have the man under lock and key."

"And his name is?"

"Arthur Charpentier, sub-lieutenant in Her Majesty's navy," cried Gregson, pompously, rubbing
his fat hands and inflating his chest.

Sherlock Holmes gave a sigh of relief, and relaxed into a smile.

"Take a seat, and try one of these cigars," he said. "We are anxious to know how you managed
it. Will you have some whiskey and water?"

"I don't mind if I do," the detective answered. "The tremendous exertions which I have gone
through during the last day or two have worn me out. Not so much bodily exertion, you understand,
as the strain upon the mind. You will appreciate that, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, for we are both
brain-workers."

"You do me too much honour," said Holmes, gravely. "Let us hear how you arrived at this most
gratifying result."

The detective seated himself in the arm-chair, and puffed complacently at his cigar. Then suddenly
he slapped his thigh in a paroxysm of amusement.

"The fun of it is," he cried, "that that fool Lestrade, who thinks himself so smart, has gone
off upon the wrong track altogether. He is after the secretary Stangerson, who had no more
to do with the crime than the babe unborn. I have no doubt that he has caught him by this time."

The idea tickled Gregson so much that he laughed until he choked.

"And how did you get your clue?"

"Ah, I'll tell you all about it. Of course, Doctor Watson, this is strictly between ourselves.
The first difficulty which we had to contend with was the finding of this American's antecedents.
Some people would have waited until their advertisements were answered, or until parties came
forward and volunteered information. That is not Tobias Gregson's way of going to work. You
remember the hat beside the dead man?"

"Yes," said Holmes; "by John Underwood and Sons, 129, Camberwell Road."

Gregson looked quite crest-fallen.

"I had no idea that you noticed that," he said. "Have you been there?"

"No."

"Ha!" cried Gregson, in a relieved voice; "you should never neglect a chance, however small
it may seem."

"To a great mind, nothing is little," remarked Holmes, sententiously.

"Well, I went to Underwood, and asked him if he had sold a hat of that size and description.
He looked over his books, and came on it at once. He had sent the hat to a Mr. Drebber, residing
at Charpentier's Boarding Establishment, Torquay Terrace. Thus I got at his address."

"Smart--very smart!" murmured Sherlock Holmes.

"I next called upon Madame Charpentier," continued the detective. "I found her very pale and
distressed. Her daughter was in the room, too--an uncommonly fine girl she is, too; she was
looking red about the eyes and her lips trembled as I spoke to her. That didn't escape my notice.
I began to smell a rat. You know the feeling, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, when you come upon the right
scent--a kind of thrill in your nerves. 'Have you heard of the mysterious death of your late
boarder Mr. Enoch J. Drebber, of Cleveland?' I asked.

"The mother nodded. She didn't seem able to get out a word. The daughter burst into tears.
I felt more than ever that these people knew something of the matter.

"'At what o'clock did Mr. Drebber leave your house for the train?' I asked.

"'At eight o'clock,' she said, gulping in her throat to keep down her agitation. 'His secretary,
Mr. Stangerson, said that there were two trains--one at 9.15 and one at 11. He was to catch
the first. [14]

"'And was that the last which you saw of him?'

"A terrible change came over the woman's face as I asked the question. Her features turned
perfectly livid. It was some seconds before she could get out the single word 'Yes'--and when
it did come it was in a husky unnatural tone.

"There was silence for a moment, and then the daughter spoke in a calm clear voice.

"'No good can ever come of falsehood, mother,' she said. 'Let us be frank with this gentleman.
We did see Mr. Drebber again.'

"'God forgive you!' cried Madame Charpentier, throwing up her hands and sinking back in her
chair. 'You have murdered your brother.'

"'Arthur would rather that we spoke the truth,' the girl answered firmly.

"'You had best tell me all about it now,' I said. 'Half-confidences are worse than none. Besides,
you do not know how much we know of it.'

"'On your head be it, Alice!' cried her mother; and then, turning to me, 'I will tell you all,
sir. Do not imagine that my agitation on behalf of my son arises from any fear lest he should
have had a hand in this terrible affair. He is utterly innocent of it. My dread is, however,
that in your eyes and in the eyes of others he may appear to be compromised. That however is
surely impossible. His high character, his profession, his antecedents would all forbid it.'

"'Your best way is to make a clean breast of the facts,' I answered. 'Depend upon it, if your
son is innocent he will be none the worse.'

"'Perhaps, Alice, you had better leave us together,' she said, and her daughter withdrew. 'Now,
sir,' she continued, 'I had no intention of telling you all this, but since my poor daughter
has disclosed it I have no alternative. Having once decided to speak, I will tell you all without
omitting any particular.'

"'It is your wisest course,' said I.

"'Mr. Drebber has been with us nearly three weeks. He and his secretary, Mr. Stangerson, had
been travelling on the Continent. I noticed a "Copenhagen" label upon each of their trunks,
showing that that had been their last stopping place. Stangerson was a quiet reserved man,
but his employer, I am sorry to say, was far otherwise. He was coarse in his habits and brutish
in his ways. The very night of his arrival he became very much the worse for drink, and, indeed,
after twelve o'clock in the day he could hardly ever be said to be sober. His manners towards
the maid-servants were disgustingly free and familiar. Worst of all, he speedily assumed the
same attitude towards my daughter, Alice, and spoke to her more than once in a way which, fortunately,
she is too innocent to understand. On one occasion he actually seized her in his arms and embraced
her--an outrage which caused his own secretary to reproach him for his unmanly conduct.'

"'But why did you stand all this,' I asked. 'I suppose that you can get rid of your boarders
when you wish.'

"Mrs. Charpentier blushed at my pertinent question. 'Would to God that I had given him notice
on the very day that he came,' she said. 'But it was a sore temptation. They were paying a
pound a day each--fourteen pounds a week, and this is the slack season. I am a widow, and my
boy in the Navy has cost me much. I grudged to lose the money. I acted for the best. This last
was too much, however, and I gave him notice to leave on account of it. That was the reason
of his going.'

"'Well?'

"'My heart grew light when I saw him drive away. My son is on leave just now, but I did not
tell him anything of all this, for his temper is violent, and he is passionately fond of his
sister. When I closed the door behind them a load seemed to be lifted from my mind. Alas, in
less than an hour there was a ring at the bell, and I learned that Mr. Drebber had returned.
He was much excited, and evidently the worse for drink. He forced his way into the room, where
I was sitting with my daughter, and made some incoherent remark about having missed his train.
He then turned to Alice, and before my very face, proposed to her that she should fly with
him. "You are of age," he said, "and there is no law to stop you. I have money enough and to
spare. Never mind the old girl here, but come along with me now straight away. You shall live
like a princess." Poor Alice was so frightened that she shrunk away from him, but he caught
her by the wrist and endeavoured to draw her towards the door. I screamed, and at that moment
my son Arthur came into the room. What happened then I do not know. I heard oaths and the confused
sounds of a scuffle. 

When we say that an event is naturally impossible? On being assured that There is a law that
is opposed to the realization of this fact, and that such opposition is not destroyed or neutralized
by another law of nature. It is a law of nature that man's body as heavier than air, falls
to the ground in support lacking, but there is another law that a set of bodies joined together,
it is specifically less severe than that in which sinks, is sustained and to be lifted, even
if one of them is more serious than fluid, then joined the human body to a hot air balloon
art provided with convenient can be traced in the air, and this phenomenon will be done up to
the laws of nature. The smallness of certain insects does not allow his image is painted on our retina
of a appreciably, but laws that are subject to make light through a glass can change the direction
of its rays as appropriate, to come out of a very small object were scattered on reaching the
retina, and form an image there large and so is not naturally impossible that with the help
of a microscope, the imperceptible to the naked eye we are present with large dimensions.

For these reasons it is necessary to tread very cautiously in declaring
a phenomenon impossible naturally.

We should not forget: 1. º that nature is very powerful, 2. No we are very unknown: two things that
should inspire great circumspection in the case of failure in matters of this kind. If a man
of the fifteenth century would have said that in the future and crossing in an hour's distance
of twelve leagues, and this without the help of horses and animals of any kind, would have regarded
the event as naturally impossible, and yet travelers who walk by the railroads, they know very
well that they brought to that speed agents through purely natural. Who knows what will be discovered
in future times, and the look of the world in ten centuries? Let us be cautious in good time
believe the existence of strange phenomena, and not abandon us to dream too lijereza gold, but beware
of course impossible to classify what a discovery could show very workable, not lightly give
faith to exaggerated hopes of change inconceivable; but not labeled as delusions and absurdities.

§
VIII.

Disposes a difficulty about the miracles of Jesus Christ.

From these observations, it seems a difficulty arises, they have not forgotten the unbelievers.
Here it is: maybe miracles are effects of causes which, being unknown, will not to be natural,
then do not prove divine intervention, and therefore useless for support the truth of the
Christian religion. This argument is so specious and futile.

A man of humble birth who has not learned the lyrics in any school, living confusion among the people,
which lacks all human, it has nowhere to lay his head, is presented in public teaching a new
doctrine so as sublime. You ask the titles of his mission, and he offers very simple. Speech,
and the blind see and the deaf hear, the tongue of the mute is unleashed, the lame walk, the
more rebellious diseases suddenly disappear, those who have just returned to breathe life, which
are taken to rise from the coffin tomb, which buried a few days and lay off bad smell, stand
wrapped in her shroud, and out of the grave, obedient to the voice that has commanded out
to be. This is the historical. The most stubborn naturalist "will endeavor find here the action
of natural laws hidden? Rate of reckless "to Christians for thinking that such wonders could not
be done without divine intervention? Do you think that eventually be revealed a secret to resurrect
the dead, and not as you want, but making them up to the simple voice of a man who called? The operation
of cataract Do you have something to do with the coup to restore sight to a blind man? Procedures action
to return to a paralyzed limb by chance "are similar to this one:" Arise, take your mat and go home?
"hydrostatic and hydraulic theories" were never found in the mere word of a man, strong enough
to appease the sea suddenly excited, and make gentle waves tend under his feet, and walk on
them silver like a monarch on carpets?

And what about if such impressive testimony to meet fulfilled prophecy,
holiness of a blameless life, the elevation of his doctrine, purity
of morals, and finally the heroic sacrifice to die in torment and
outrage, holding and releasing the same teaching with the serenity
in the face, the sweetness of the lips, coordinating between the last
gasps love and forgiveness?

We are not talking because of hidden laws of apparent impossibilities, not so convincing to oppose
evidence a fool "who knows ?.....» This difficulty would be reasonable if it were an isolated event,
wrapped in some obscurity, subject to a thousand different combinations,
when there are objections against Christianity is not only unfounded,
but even contrary to common sense.

§ IX.

The moral failure or ordinary.

The moral failure or regular opposition to the regular and ordinary course of events. This
word is susceptible of many meanings, as the idea that ordinary course as elastic, is applicable
to different objects so that little can be said in general that be useful in practice. This
failure has nothing to do with the absolute or natural things morally
impossible not leave so much potential to be absolutely and naturally.

We will give a very clear and simple idea of ​​the impossibility Ordinarily, if we say it is
impossible thus all that, considering the regular course of things, or very rarely happens once
or never. I see a high character, whose name and titles all spoken, and whom are taxed the respect
due to his rank.

It is morally impossible that the name is of course and the character an impostor. Usually not the
case: But it has also suffered this disappointment once in a while.

We see at every step that the moral impossibility disappears with the help of an extraordinary reason
or unplanned, to pervert the course of events. A captain he heads a handful of soldiers, coming
from distant lands, addressed to unknown shores, and is a vast continent populated by millions
of people. Set fire to their ships, and says leave. Where does it go? A vast kingdoms to conquer
a few hundred men.

This is impossible; the adventurous are you insane?

Let him that his madness is the madness of heroism and genius; the
inability to become historic event.

Surnamed Hernán Cortés, who is Spanish acaudilla Spanish.

§ X.

Impossibility of common sense improperly contained in moral impossibility.

The moral failure is sometimes a very different sense from that set up here. There impossible which
can not be said that they are with absolute impossibility or natural; and yet we live with such certainty
that it's impossible not to be made, that gives us greater natural, and little he needed to
produce the same effect as the absolute. A man have on hand a box of printed characters, we will
assume cube form for that equals the probability of falling and supported by any of their
faces melded repeatedly without rhyme or reason, without even looking
at what he does, and eventually drops them the ground is it possible
that result by chance arranged such that they form the episode Dido?

No, responds instantly anyone in their right mind, expect this accident would be a delusion, so
sure are we that will be fulfilled, that if it became our slope of such a life chance, saying
that if this is confirmed it will kill us, would continue as calm as if there were no condition.

It
is noteworthy that there are no absolute or metaphysical impossibility, for there is in nature
repugnance of the characters essential to put in that way, as a typesetter in a short time
the well would have very easily, there is no natural impossibility, because no law of nature
to preclude falling for this or that side, or to each side the other
as appropriate to the effect: there is thus a failure of another order,
that nothing has in common with the other two, and neither resembles
what is called moral, for only be outside the regular course of events.

The

theory of probability, aided by the combinations, shows this impossibility, calculating, so
to speak, the great distance that this phenomenon is with respect to existence. The Author
of nature did not want a conviction is very important to us, depending on the reason, and therefore
it lacked many men, so we gave them all the way to instinct, as it has done others that we
are equally necessary. In vain I empeñariais in combat or even rudest man, he maybe would not
know what answer you, but wag his head and would say to himself, "this philosopher who believed
in the possibility of such nonsense, should not be too sound trial. "

When nature speaks in the depths of our soul in a voice so clear,
so decisive tone, is foolish not to listen.

Only a few men surnamed philosophers sometimes persist in this endeavor, not remembering that
there is no philosophy to excuse the lack of common sense and that evil will be wise who begins
by being foolish [4].

CHAPTER V.

QUESTIONS OF EXISTENCE, KNOWLEDGE ACQUIRED BY THE TESTIMONY OF THE
SENSES IMMEDIATELY.

§ I.

Need evidence of the senses, and the different ways in which we provide knowledge of things.

Settled principles and rules that should guide us in matters of possibility, let Now to those of existence,
which offer a wider field, and more useful and frequent applications.

The existence or nonexistence of a being, or rather that something is or is not, can we be sure
in two ways: by ourselves, or through others.

Knowledge of the existence of things that is acquired by ourselves, without interference others,
comes from the senses mediate or immediate, or they present us with
the object or impressions that they cause us to spend the understanding
infer the existence what is not sensible or not.

The view immediately informed me of the existence of a building that I have this, but a piece of SECUNDAIRE,
some remains of a pavement an inscription or other evidence, I do know that in such or such
a place existed a temple Roman. In both cases I have the news to
the senses, but in the first instant, the second immediately.

Who lacked the senses would not know the existence of spiritual beings; dormant for understanding
could not get this news, nor reason, nor faith, unless it be that God favored by extraordinary
means, that now it is not.

The distinction explained in any way prejudge up systems that can be taken on origin of ideas,
now they are supposed to be acquired, sometimes innate, sometimes come from the senses, are now
only excited by them, the truth is that we know nothing, think nothing,
if senses have not been in action.

Moreover, until they leave to the ideologues of power imagine what
it will seem good on the intellectual functioning of a man who lacked
of all the senses, we can safely give them so great latitude clarify
course nobody never what it really would have, since the patient would
not be able to communicate what happens, either by words or by signs.

Finally here they are men endowed with senses, and experience shows
that these men know, or what they feel, or by what they feel.

§ II.

Correcting errors on occasion of the senses. Your choice. Examples.

The immediate knowledge that the senses give us of the existence of a thing, is sometimes wrong,
because we serve as we have these wonderful instruments that we have been granted the Author
of nature. Corporeal objects acting on the sense organ, causing an impression on our soul's make
sure what good this impression, we know how point corresponds to the existence of an object Here
are the rules to avoid errors in these subjects. Some explanations teach more than the precepts
and theories.

Long distance to see a moving object, and say, "there's a man 'closer,
I find that it is not, and there is only a bush swayed by the wind.

Have I been deceived sense of sight? No: because the impression that she has sent me a package was
only moved, and if I had the feeling he served well received, would have noticed that I painted a man.
When I wanted him as such, should not blame the meaning, but to my little attention, or noticing
some resemblance to that between the package and a man seen from afar, I inferred that this
ought to be in effect, not realizing that the likeness and reality are very different things.

Having
some background that will be a battle, or are harassing some square, methinks I heard gunshots,
and I stand by the belief that the fire started. Post news I do know that it has fired a shot, who is
to blame for my mistake? not my ear, but me. The noise was heard in effect, but it was the shock
of a woodcutter who echoed the bottom of a distant forest, was to close a door, whose roar echoed
the building and its vicinity, was to anyone else that produced a sound like to the distant roar of a
cannon. "I was pretty sure that was not to my immediate the cause of the noise that gave me
the illusion? Was quite exercised to discern indeed, considering the distance that the fire was
to be the address of the place, and the wind prevailed at that time?

It is because the sense he has deceived me, but my lijereza and precipitation. The feeling was
as it ought to be, but I've been saying what she told me. If I had been content to say that I heard
noise like distant cannon fire, had not to mislead others and to myself.

One would have a food of excellent quality, and the test says, "is bad, intolerable, is known that
there is this or that mix, "because in effect your palate and experience it. Would you cheated
meaning? no. If it seemed bitter, could not be otherwise, considering
the indisposition stomach which was covered with the language of a
humor that maleaba everything.

Bastabales to this man a little reflection to condemn not so easily
or the servant or the reseller.

When the palate is ready and his feelings tell us the qualities of
food in Otherwise no.

§ III.

Need to employ in some cases more than one way, for proper comparison.

It should be noted that known through the senses the existence of an object, not enough sometimes
use one, but it is necessary to employ others at the same time, or attend to the circumstances
we can guard against the illusion. It is true that the discerning extent corresponds to the existence
of an object to the sensation we receive, we work of the comparison, which is based on experience.
A blind man whom cataracts are removed, it does not judge the distances, sizes and shapes, until
you gain the practice of viewing. This acquisition we do without noticing since childhood,
and so we believe that only to look to judge of objects such as are in themselves. A very simple
experience and are often convince them otherwise. An adult man and a child of three years are
looking through a glass offered by the sight landscapes, animals, armies, both receive the same
impression; But the adult, who knows who has never left the field, and is in a closed room, not altered
either by the proximity of wild beasts, or by disasters of the battlefield. The hard it is to preserve
the illusion, and more than once must be diverted from reality, and to supply some defects
or tool box for pleasure with the presence the show.

But the child that does not compare, which only serves to feel at all isolated, is frightened
and crying, fearing that he had to eat the beasts, or seeing how cruelly soldiers are killed.

Still
more: experience at every step an excellent perspective from which we had no News, views to the
corresponding distance illusion causes us and makes us take for objects of relleve they actually
are flat. The feeling is not wrong, but it is the trial which it formed. If advirtiésemos that
fit the rules for producing the same retina printing with a blunt object with another large, we had
indulged in the ability Artist without falling into error.

This would have gone looking at the object from different points
or availing of touch.

§ IV.

The body healthy and sick at heart.

Those who seek the good use of the senses often warn that care must be taken that any indisposition
does not affect the organs, and so we are able to communicate feelings deceive This is certainly very
cautious, but not as useful as people think. Patients rarely engaged to serious studies, and
so his mistakes are of little importance, besides themselves, or their relatives, soon noticed
the alteration of the body, thereby preventing timely the error. Those are the rules need
to be healthy in body are not in spirit and worried thinking put at his disposal and service
all your senses, making perceive, perhaps with the utmost good faith,
all that should excogitating system support.

What did not discover in the heavenly bodies the astronomer who runs the telescope, not profit
calm and unaware of bias, but with strong desire to prove a risky assertion lijereza more than
enough? What you will not see under the microscope, the naturalist who is in disposition similar?

By
the way I said that these errors were likely to suffer perhaps with the utmost good faith, because
happens very often that the man is deceived himself first, before deceiving others. Dominated by their
favorite opinion, anxious to find out the real tests, examines objects not to know but to overcome,
and thus it happens that is in them all you want. Many times the senses do not tell anything about
what he intended, but offer something similar: "This is, exclaims jubilantly, Lo here is what
I suspected," and when rising doubt in his mind, seeks to stifle
it, achácala to little faith in its irresistible doctrine strives
to satisfy himself, closing his eyes to the light to deceive the other
without being compelled to lie.

Enough to have studied the human heart to know that these scenes are not uncommon, and we play
with ourselves in a pitiful way. Do we need a conviction? as in one way or another worked in
formárnosla, at first the task is expensive, but in the end the habit is to strengthen the weak,
will he go to disallow the pride back, and fighting that began with
a hoax himself that he was not hiding at all, just by actually be
fooled, and delivered his apparently incorrigible stubbornness.

§ V.

Real feelings, but without external object. Explanation of this phenomenon.

In addition, it is necessary to note that not always the case that stunned feeling attributed
to the more than what she has, a lively imagination possessed of an object, work on the same senses,
and altering the normal course of duties, it is actually feel it is not there. To understand how
this takes place, we should remember that feeling not verified in the sense organ but the brain, rather
than force of habit refer us to the point of the impression which we receive. While the eye
stayed very healthy completely blind, if you suffer injury to the optic nerve, and private
communication from a member anyone with a brain, the sense is extinguished. From this it follows
that the real receptacle of all sensations is the brain, and that if one of its parts is excited
by an act inside the impression that is normally produced by the action of an external body,
there will feeling that there was no exterior posters. That is, if upon receiving the external
body the impression of a body, the brain communicates to the nerve
causing the vibration or other B affection, and by any cause, independent
of external bodies, there is in the same body at the same vibration
B, will experience the same feeling that if the body external reality
was affected.

At this point are in accord reason and observation. The soul is informed of objects immediately
outside the senses, but immediately by the brain when it get this or that posters can not ignore
her refer you to where usually proceeding and usually the object that produces it. If it is
advised that the organization is altered, it precaverá against error, but will not be leaving
to receive the sensation, but wary of her testimony. When Pascal, she says, saw a gap to his
hand, well knew that in fact they were not, but kept receiving the same feeling that if there
had been on such an abyss, and not enough to overcome the illusion of more to endeavor. This
phenomenon takes place very often, and is not nothing strange to
those who have some notions about such matters.

§ VI.

Cranky and withdrawn.

What usually happens in a state of brain disease, can occur very well when exalted the imagination
by any cause, now becomes sick with relationship what worries them. What are hobbies, but the
realization of this phenomenon? Well understood hobbies that are distributed in many classes
and graduations, which are continuous and at intervals, and arranged
extravagant, vulgar and scientific, and just as Don Quixote windmills
turned into monstrous giants, and herds of sheep and goats in armies
of combatants, you can also find a stubborn sage with the help of
their telescopes, microscopes and other instruments, whatever their
intention to comply.

The very thinkers and self-absorbed men at high risk of mania wise, in the illusions sublime to the
wretched humanity, but it is covered with different forms depending on various life situations,
always brings its heritage of weakness. For a weak little woman the whisper of the wind is
a mysterious moan, the moonlight is the appearance of a deceased, and the cry of night birds is the
cry of the evocations of hell for go to terrifying scenes.

Unfortunately, there are only women who have imagination fevered,
and take for reality the dreams of his fantasy [5].

CHAPTER VI.

KNOWLEDGE OF THE EXISTENCE OF THE ITEMS PURCHASED BY THE SENSES MEDIATE.

§ I.
Sorry to transition from the non-sense.

The senses are immediately
given us news of the existence of many objects, but these are still
larger number who do not exercise the action on the material organs,
or because incorporeal, or for not being disposed to affect them.
To what the senses tell us stands a building as large and high knowledge
of all kinds, looking at him is difficult to conceive how this could
have grounded in such small bases. Listen as one may, there is no shadow of
a sound in all that mighty wilderness; nothing but silence--complete and heart-subduing silence.

It has been said there is nothing appertaining to life upon the broad plain. That is hardly
true. Looking down from the Sierra Blanco, one sees a pathway traced out across the desert,
which winds away and is lost in the extreme distance. It is rutted with wheels and trodden
down by the feet of many adventurers. Here and there there are scattered white objects which
glisten in the sun, and stand out against the dull deposit of alkali. Approach, and examine
them! They are bones: some large and coarse, others smaller and more delicate. The former have
belonged to oxen, and the latter to men. For fifteen hundred miles one may trace this ghastly
caravan route by these scattered remains of those who had fallen by the wayside.

Looking down on this very scene, there stood upon the fourth of May, eighteen hundred and forty-seven,
a solitary traveller. His appearance was such that he might have been the very genius or demon
of the region. An observer would have found it difficult to say whether he was nearer to forty
or to sixty. His face was lean and haggard, and the brown parchment-like skin was drawn tightly
over the projecting bones; his long, brown hair and beard were all flecked and dashed with
white; his eyes were sunken in his head, and burned with an unnatural lustre; while the hand
which grasped his rifle was hardly more fleshy than that of a skeleton. As he stood, he leaned
upon his weapon for support, and yet his tall figure and the massive framework of his bones
suggested a wiry and vigorous constitution. His gaunt face, however, and his clothes, which
hung so baggily over his shrivelled limbs, proclaimed what it was that gave him that senile
and decrepit appearance. The man was dying--dying from hunger and from thirst.

He had toiled painfully down the ravine, and on to this little elevation, in the vain hope
of seeing some signs of water. Now the great salt plain stretched before his eyes, and the
distant belt of savage mountains, without a sign anywhere of plant or tree, which might indicate
the presence of moisture. In all that broad landscape there was no gleam of hope. North, and
east, and west he looked with wild questioning eyes, and then he realised that his wanderings
had come to an end, and that there, on that barren crag, he was about to die. "Why not here,
as well as in a feather bed, twenty years hence," he muttered, as he seated himself in the
shelter of a boulder.

Before sitting down, he had deposited upon the ground his useless rifle, and also a large bundle
tied up in a grey shawl, which he had carried slung over his right shoulder. It appeared to
be somewhat too heavy for his strength, for in lowering it, it came down on the ground with
some little violence. Instantly there broke from the grey parcel a little moaning cry, and
from it there protruded a small, scared face, with very bright brown eyes, and two little speckled,
dimpled fists.

"You've hurt me!" said a childish voice reproachfully.

"Have I though," the man answered penitently, "I didn't go for to do it." As he spoke he unwrapped
the grey shawl and extricated a pretty little girl of about five years of age, whose dainty
shoes and smart pink frock with its little linen apron all bespoke a mother's care. The child
was pale and wan, but her healthy arms and legs showed that she had suffered less than her
companion.

"How is it now?" he answered anxiously, for she was still rubbing the towsy golden curls which
covered the back of her head.

"Kiss it and make it well," she said, with perfect gravity, shoving [19] the injured part up
to him. "That's what mother used to do. Where's mother?"

"Mother's gone. I guess you'll see her before long."

"Gone, eh!" said the little girl. "Funny, she didn't say good-bye; she 'most always did if
she was just goin' over to Auntie's for tea, and now she's been away three days. Say, it's
awful dry, ain't it? Ain't there no water, nor nothing to eat?"

"No, there ain't nothing, dearie. You'll just need to be patient awhile, and then you'll be
all right. Put your head up agin me like that, and then you'll feel bullier. It ain't easy
to talk when your lips is like leather, but I guess I'd best let you know how the cards lie.
What's that you've got?"

"Pretty things! fine things!" cried the little girl enthusiastically, holding up two glittering
fragments of mica. "When we goes back to home I'll give them to brother Bob."

"You'll see prettier things than them soon," said the man confidently. "You just wait a bit.
I was going to tell you though--you remember when we left the river?"

"Oh, yes."

"Well, we reckoned we'd strike another river soon, d'ye see. But there was somethin' wrong;
compasses, or map, or somethin', and it didn't turn up. Water ran out. Just except a little
drop for the likes of you and--and----"

"And you couldn't wash yourself," interrupted his companion gravely, staring up at his grimy
visage.

"No, nor drink. And Mr. Bender, he was the fust to go, and then Indian Pete, and then Mrs.
McGregor, and then Johnny Hones, and then, dearie, your mother."

"Then mother's a deader too," cried the little girl dropping her face in her pinafore and sobbing
bitterly.

"Yes, they all went except you and me. Then I thought there was some chance of water in this
direction, so I heaved you over my shoulder and we tramped it together. It don't seem as though
we've improved matters. There's an almighty small chance for us now!"

"Do you mean that we are going to die too?" asked the child, checking her sobs, and raising
her tear-stained face.

"I guess that's about the size of it."

"Why didn't you say so before?" she said, laughing gleefully. "You gave me such a fright. Why,
of course, now as long as we die we'll be with mother again."

"Yes, you will, dearie."

"And you too. I'll tell her how awful good you've been. What matters is to proceed with
quiet, to see all that there is no bias, no hate, no spirit of revenge, you use a right and
a duty to obey them. "Revenge impetuous, violent, frankly unfair, had not been able to achieve a
victory that has been obtained without difficulty peaceful revenge, insidious, hypocritically
disguised in the veil of reason, justice, of duty.

For this reason it is so fearful of revenge when he acts on behalf of zeal for justice. When
the heart possessed of hatred come to deceive himself, believing impulses to act of good will,
perhaps, the same love, is as subject to the fascination of a reptile whom he does not see, and
whose existence or even suspicion. So envy destroys reputations more pure and enlightened, pursues
relentless rancor, revenge is glorified in seizures and sorrow of the unfortunate victim, making
it exhausting to the dregs the pain and bitterness. The celebrated Protomártir shone by his eminent
virtues and terrify the Jews with his eloquence God, what do you think that name will envy and revenge,
dry them hearts and grind your teeth? Do you think that was the name surname is theirs? No,
in any way. These men are a scream as full of scandal, cover their ears, Deacon and slaughter
the innocent in God's name. El Salvador in the world to admire how hear him with the divine beauty
of his moral character and the wonderful stream of wisdom and love flowing from his lips Augustus
people throng to see him, and he goes about doing good; courteous to the young, compassionate
with the unfortunate, soft on the culprits, pour full hands the treasures of his omnipotence
and love, only to pronounce words of kindness and pardon, would seem to reserve the language of
a holy and terrible indignation to confuse to the hypocrites. They have found in it a majestic
look and severe, and they have corresponded with a look of snake. Jealousy is ripping the heart,
feel a burning revenge. But what will work, talk and vindictive? No, this man is a blasphemer,
say, seduce the crowd, is an enemy of Caesar, the fidelity for the public peace, religion demands
that it be removed from the middle. And he accepted the treachery of a disciple, and the innocent
Cordero will be taken to the courts, and will be questioned, and responding words of truth, the
prince of the priests will feel devoured with envy, and tear his clothes, and say "Cursed,"
and the bystanders say "it is worthy of death."

§ XL.

Precautions.

Never a man meditate much about the secrets of his heart never deployed too surveillance to save
the thousand doors where you enter your iniquity never be cautious too much against the many
pitfalls with which he is fighting to himself. Are not passions so scary when presented as they
are in themselves, speaking openly to his subject, trampling and impetuously as they are put forward.
In this case, however little is preserved in the spirit of love of virtue, if the man has not
yet come to the bottom of the corruption or the evil, feel rising in his soul a cry of horror and
indignation, as soon as it offers the service with her looks disgusting. But what dangers do
not run, if bartered names, and changed the costumes, everything is offered in disguise, upset?
if your eyes look through prisms misleading, they paint with colors and gentle Galanos However,
the blackness and monstrosity?

The greatest dangers of a pure heart are not in the brutal passions of the gross incentive but those
feelings that love for their delicacy and seduce you with her tenderness, fear does not fit
into the noble souls but with the dictates of prudence, the greed is not entered generous breasts
but with the title of foresight economy, pride takes shelter under the shadow of love of one's
dignity, and respect due to the position held: the vanity provides its little joys, vain deluding
to the urgent need know the opinion of others, to take advantage of criticism is disguised revenge
the robe of righteousness, the furor his name is holy indignation; laziness invokes their aid the
need of rest, and the gnawing envy destroy reputations, to engage in obfuscate his breath
impure the splendors of eminent merit, speaks of love of truth, of fairness, how much they should
guard against an ignorant or admiration childlike enthusiasm.

§ XLI.

Hypocrisy of the man himself.

The man used the hypocrisy to deceive himself, perhaps more than to deceive the others. Rarely given
to himself Mobile accurate account of their actions, and therefore, even in the purest virtues,
there is some dross. Entirely pure gold is not obtained but in the crucible of a perfect divine
love and that love, in all its perfection, is reserved to the heavenly realms. While living here on
earth, we have in our hearts a malignant germ or kills or weakens, or tarnish the virtuous
actions, and no small if you get to keep the germs to develop and we lost. But, in spite of
so much weakness, continues to shine in the depths of our soul that inextinguishable light on in her
by the hand of the Creator, and that light we distinguish between good and evil, serving us to guide
our steps, and regret our mistake. For this reason, we strive to deceive ourselves to not get
in too apparent contradiction with the opinion of consciousness, we covered our ears to hear
what she says, eyes closed not to see what she shows us, try us the illusion that the principle
teaches us is not applicable to this case. For this unfortunately serve the passions, insidiously
suggesting sophistical speeches.

Cuestal much the man look bad, or even their own eyes, do not dare,
it is hypocritical.

§ XLII.

The self-knowledge.

The defect referred to in the preceding paragraph has a different character in different people,
for which reason, should in no way ever losing sight of that rule of the ancients so profoundly
wise: know thyself; Nosce te ipsum. While there are certain qualities common to all men, they take
a particular character in each, each which has, so to speak, a spring that should know and
be able to handle. This spring, is necessary to discover what is in the other, to ascertain
to behave well with them, but is more necessary still discover each
one in itself.

Because there tends to be the secret of the great things and good
and bad, on account of that spring is but a propensity strong, reaching
to the others, subordinating all to an object.

This ruling passion resent all the others, she mixes in all acts
of life, it is what called character.

§ XLIII.

Man flees from himself.

If we had the unfortunate inclination to escape ourselves, if the contemplation of within us
we are not repugnant to such an extent, we would not be difficult to discover what is the passion
that we dominated. Unfortunately, no one ran away as much as ourselves, study anything less than
what we have more immediate and more interest. The generality of men down to the pit, not
only without being known to himself, but also without trying. We should be constantly looking
down on our hearts to know their tendencies, to penetrate its secrets, to restrain their impulses,
to correct his vices, avoid their wanderings, we should live with that inner life in which
man realizes their thoughts and feelings, and not put in relation to external objects, but after
having consulted his reason and his will given to the appropriate
address.

But this is not ago, the man rushes, sticks to the objects that incite, living only with the
outer life that leaves you time to think about himself. Sort are clear understandings, hearts beautiful,
do not keep for themselves any price that has enriched the the Creator, they shed, so to speak,
in streets and squares the exquisite aroma, which saved at the bottom of his heart, it could
be of comfort and gift.

Pascal referred to with great eagerness having devoted himself to mathematics and science Natural
tired of this study to find cause fewer people who can discuss on
the object of his favorite occupations.

Eager to find a subject that had not this problem is devoted to the
study of man, but soon learned from experience The study dealing with
the man were still in a lower number of fans to mathematics.

This is true now as in Pascal's time, suffice it to common men to
take to see how few are those who like such a task, mostly case themselves.

§

XLIV.

Good results reflect on the passions.

When you have acquired the habit of reflecting on their own inclinations, distinguishing the
nature and intensity of each of them, even when towing at one time or another spirit they
do not know that this violence. Maybe blind understanding, but this blindness is not set at
all to who has it, it says to himself, "you think you see, but not really see it;'re blind. "But
if man ever set his eyes on the inside, if you work according to impelled the passions without
bothering to figure out where the impulse is born; for him to become one and the same passion
and determination, intellect and instinct opinion passions.

So the reason is not only a slave mistress, instead of leading, coaching
and correcting with advice and mandates the inclinations of the heart,
is reduced to vile instrument them, and obliged to employ all the
resources of its sagacity to provide enjoyment to satisfy them.

§ XLV.

Wisdom of the Christian religion in the direction of behavior.

The Christian religion to lead moral lives close to the reflective about our inclinations,
has done a highly according to the most sound philosophy, and discovers a deep knowledge the
human heart. Experience teaches that what is missing man to do good, no is speculative and general
knowledge, but practical, detailed, with application to all acts of life. Who does not know
and does not repeat a thousand times that the passions we go astray and we lost? The difficulty
is that, but know the passion that influences this or that case,
which one usually dominates the action, in what form, under what costume
is presented to the spirit, and how attacks should be rejected, or
forestall its stratagems.

And all this, not as you want, but with a clear understanding, living, and that course is offered
both to the understanding, provided it is taking a resolution, business even more common.

The difference in the speculative sciences mediates between an ordinary man and another outstanding
is not to often but it knows clearly and accurately distinction, what that only knows one
way inaccurate, confusing and dark, not to the number of ideas but on the quality, nothing
says this about a point, that also does not have notice that, both look the same object, only
the sight of one is much more perfect than the other. The The same happens with regard to practice.
Men speak of the profoundly immoral moral, in such a way that no manifest disregard its rules,
but these rules are known them in general, without being careful to make applications, without
having noticed the obstacles that prevent them on the ground in this or that occasion, but
you can think of a way pure and alive, when offered an opportunity to make use of them. Who is
in possession of his intellect and the will, the whole man, the passions, those moral rules hold them,
so to speak, filed in the recesses of his consciousness, nor even like look at them as objects
of curiosity, afraid of finding in them the worm of remorse. By contrast, when virtue is rooted
in the soul, moral rules become a familiar idea, which accompanies all thoughts and actions,
which comes alive and stirred the lowest risk, and urges prevailing before acting, that gnaws
incessantly if the has been neglected. The continued presence under the intellectual cause of
moral rules and presence in turn helps to strengthen virtue, so that
religion does not cease inculcate, certain of which are precious seed
that will sooner or later some fruit.

§ XLVI.

Moral sentiments auxiliary virtue.

In support of ideas or moral feelings, which is also the very moral, and powerful and beautiful for God
to allow our spirit rattle and tumultuous and violent ominous storms, also wanted to provide
the soft zephyrs gentle rocking. The habit of attending to the moral rules and to obey its requirements,
develops and fuels these feelings, and then the man to follow the path of virtue, fighting inclinations
bad with the good inclinations, the struggles are not so much danger,
and especially not so painful, because a fight with another feeling
feeling, what you have to sacrifice of one is offset by the pleasure
caused by the triumph of another, and there those suffering harrowing
experience that, when reason fight with the heart all alone.

This development of moral feelings, that call in aid of under the same passions, is a powerful resource
for doing good and illustrate the understanding when you obfuscate other passions. There is opposition
in many different combinations that give excellent results. The love of pleasure is neutralized
with the love of one's dignity, excessive pride is tempered by the fear of becoming obnoxious,
vanity is tempered by fear of ridicule; laziness is stimulated by the desire of glory restrains
anger apparently not decomposed; the thirst for revenge is mitigated or terminated, with the
joy and honor that are to be generous. With this combination, with the shrewd opposition of
good feelings to the feelings bad, gently and effectively weaken
many of the germs of evil that shelters the heart human and man is
virtuous, while being sensitive.

§ XLVII.

A rule for practical trials.

Known the mainspring of their own heart, and developed as much as possible the generous and
moral sentiments, it is necessary to know how it is to direct the understanding to make guesses
in their practical judgments.

The first rule you must remember is not to judge or discuss with respect to any object while the spirit is
under the influence of passion on the same object. How offensive does not seem a fact, a word, a gesture
that just irritate! "The intention the offender, it is said the victim himself, could not be more
malignant, has been proposed not only damaged, but outrage, those present should be offended,
if not take prompt and complete revenge, to grin looming on everyone's lips would become hopelessly
in utter disregard for who has tolerated it so outrageous cover of ignominy. It should not
be broken, it is true, but is there anything more upset that the abandonment of honor? need
for caution, but this prudence should you get to the point left trampled by everyone? "Who does
this speech? Is it right? certainly not; is anger.

But the anger, say, does not run much. Yes, runs, for his service takes understanding, and this
provides you everything you need. And this service does not stop assist him in his turn the same anger,
because the passions in his moments of exaltation, fertilize wit admirably with the inspirations
that suit them.

Do we want a test that ran and who thus spoke was not the reason but anger? hela evident here.
If you think the man had something really angry, not disavow of all the bystanders. They are not
without feelings of honor, also consider much his own dignity, they know the difference between
a word spoken with plan to censure, and another breakaway unintentionally offensive, and yet
they see nothing of what the angry see so clearly, and if you smile, that smile is caused not by
the humiliation he imagine to have suffered, but by that terrible
explosion of anger, for no reason.

But still: it is not necessary to go to the bystanders to find the
truth, enough to appeal at the same anger when anger is gone.

Judge "then and now?

It is well certainly not, he will perhaps be the first to laugh at his anger and he will ask you
disguise his outburst.

§ XLVIII.

Another rule.

From these observations comes another rule, which is that when we feel under the influence of passion,
we make an effort, to suppose for a moment even in the state in which your influence there. A
similar reflection, and faster than it contributes greatly to calm passion, and to excite in
the minds different ideas suggested by the inclination blind.

The force of passion is broken, from the moment that is at variance with a thought that stirs in
the head, the secret of his victory is usually to turn off all contrary to them, and brightening favorable.
But as soon as attention is has led to another order of ideas, is the comparison, and therefore
ceases exclusivity. Meanwhile other forces are developed intellectual and moral unsubordinated
to passion, and it loses its original energy by having to share power with other life Before desfrutar
alone.

Advised the media not only the experience of their success, but also
a legitimate reason in the nature of our organization.

The intellectual and moral faculties never exercise operate without some of the material organs.
Now, between bodily organs are distributed a number of vital forces alternately enjoyed greater
or lesser degree, and therefore to decrease in the one, when there is increased in others.
This being so, it has to produce a salutary effect on efforts to put in action intelligence bodies
as opposed to the passions, and that energy of these has to subside as they serve the organs
of intelligence.

But it is noted that this phenomenon was verified by directing the
attention of intelligence in a direction opposite to the passions,
which is obtained by transferring it for a moment the order of ideas
which will, when not under an influx passionate, as if by intelligence
contrary it is to promote passion, then this will encourage more and
more with the help, and what we could lose power, so to speak, purely
organic, recovered in moral power, in the greatest abundance of resources
to achieve the object, and that kind of bill of indemnity that is
believed free of charges, when you see that understanding supports
far from combat.

This work on the passions is not just a theory, anyone can convince themselves that it is practicable,
and they feel its good effects as soon as applied to it. It is true that not always is right
in the middle but on purpose to drown tuning or to direct the passion lifted; or still found, you are
not used properly, but the habit of looking only sufficient for man to be more about themselves,
do not leave too facility to the first movement, and has in its practical
judgments criteria missing those who come otherwise.

§ XLIX.

The man laughing at himself.

When man used to seeing much their passions, to get inside to use ridicule against themselves,
the ridicule, the salt that is in the heart and lip mortals as one of many preservatives against
intellectual and moral corruption, ridicule, not only with fruit is used against others, but also
against us them, seeing our shortcomings on the side that lend themselves to satire. The man
says then to himself what others may say, attend the scene that would represent, If the launch
fell into the hands of an adversary of wit and good humor. That is used against another also somewhat
satire, when we use against ourselves, because although is observed within us two men vying
for that fight, they are never in peace, and just as intelligent, moral, foresighted, used
against the clumsy, the immoral the blind, strength of will and the rule of reason, and also
sometimes fights it and humiliates him with the sharp arrows of satire. Satire can be both
funnier and free, the lack of witnesses, does not hurt the reputation,
there is nothing to lose in the opinion of others, because it fails
to be expressed in words, and the grin that makes come to our lips
is extinguished at the time of birth.

A thought of this kind happening in the agitation caused by the passions, produces a effect similar
to a word judicious, incisive and penetrating, launched amid turbulent meeting. How often is
noted that a look expressive change the state of mind one of the bystanders, moderate or drowning
a frenzied passion! What has expressed that look? nothing more than a memory of decorum, a
consideration to the place or people, a friendly reproach, a delicate irony, nothing more than an appeal
to common sense the same as a sport of passion, and this has been sufficient for the passion
subsides.

The effect of another gives us producírnoslo why we could not ourselves,
if not equality, at least approximation?

L. §

Perpetual childhood of man.

Little enough to lose the man, but not take much to correct some defects. Is weaker than bad,
far from satanic stubbornness that does not deviate evil never once embraced, on the contrary,
both good and evil and embraces leaves with ease. Is a child into old age, introduce themselves
with all the seriousness possible, but in the end it is childish to himself in many things and
ashamed.

It said that no great big man seemed to his valet, that contains much truth. And it saw the man
closely, you discover the little things that debase. But more things he knows himself that his
valet, and this is still less large their own eyes, for this even in his prime, you need to cover with a veil
of childish that cherishes in his heart.

Children laugh and frolic and gambol, and then moan and rage and cry,
often without knowing why: do not do the same to her as an adult?

To give children a boost of its organization the good or bad state
of health, the provision affects atmospheric pleasant or unpleasant;
disappearing in these cases changes the state of their minds: do not
remember the time before, or think in the next, only governed by the
posters that are currently experiencing.

Does not that same man a thousand times more serious, more serious
and judicious?

§ LI.

Moving D. Nicasio in a few hours.

Don Nicasio is a man of advanced
age, calm and mature trial, full of knowledge, experience, and rarely
carried away from the shock of the moment. Everything weighs in a
healthy balance of reason, and will not let this weight bearing for
a dram passions of any kind. He speaks of a very serious undertaking
for which has its world practice, and his understanding at that particular
kind of business. He had
been a pioneer in California, and could narrate many a strange tale of fortunes made and fortunes
lost in those wild, halcyon days. He had been a scout too, and a trapper, a silver explorer,
and a ranchman. Wherever stirring adventures were to be had, Jefferson Hope had been there
in search of them. He soon became a favourite with the old farmer, who spoke eloquently of
his virtues. On such occasions, Lucy was silent, but her blushing cheek and her bright, happy
eyes, showed only too clearly that her young heart was no longer her own. Her honest father
may not have observed these symptoms, but they were assuredly not thrown away upon the man
who had won her affections.

It was a summer evening when he came galloping down the road and pulled up at the gate. She
was at the doorway, and came down to meet him. He threw the bridle over the fence and strode
up the pathway.

"I am off, Lucy," he said, taking her two hands in his, and gazing tenderly down into her face;
"I won't ask you to come with me now, but will you be ready to come when I am here again?"

"And when will that be?" she asked, blushing and laughing.

"A couple of months at the outside. I will come and claim you then, my darling. There's no
one who can stand between us."

"And how about father?" she asked.

"He has given his consent, provided we get these mines working all right. I have no fear on
that head."

"Oh, well; of course, if you and father have arranged it all, there's no more to be said,"
she whispered, with her cheek against his broad breast.

"Thank God!" he said, hoarsely, stooping and kissing her. "It is settled, then. The longer
I stay, the harder it will be to go. They are waiting for me at the cañon. Good-bye, my own
darling--good-bye. In two months you shall see me."

He tore himself from her as he spoke, and, flinging himself upon his horse, galloped furiously
away, never even looking round, as though afraid that his resolution might fail him if he took
one glance at what he was leaving. She stood at the gate, gazing after him until he vanished
from her sight. Then she walked back into the house, the happiest girl in all Utah.

CHAPTER III. JOHN FERRIER TALKS WITH THE PROPHET.

THREE weeks had passed since Jefferson Hope and his comrades had departed from Salt Lake City.
John Ferrier's heart was sore within him when he thought of the young man's return, and of
the impending loss of his adopted child. Yet her bright and happy face reconciled him to the
arrangement more than any argument could have done. He had always determined, deep down in
his resolute heart, that nothing would ever induce him to allow his daughter to wed a Mormon.
Such a marriage he regarded as no marriage at all, but as a shame and a disgrace. Whatever
he might think of the Mormon doctrines, upon that one point he was inflexible. He had to seal
his mouth on the subject, however, for to express an unorthodox opinion was a dangerous matter
in those days in the Land of the Saints.

Yes, a dangerous matter--so dangerous that even the most saintly dared only whisper their religious
opinions with bated breath, lest something which fell from their lips might be misconstrued,
and bring down a swift retribution upon them. The victims of persecution had now turned persecutors
on their own account, and persecutors of the most terrible description. Not the Inquisition
of Seville, nor the German Vehm-gericht, nor the Secret Societies of Italy, were ever able
to put a more formidable machinery in motion than that which cast a cloud over the State of Utah.

Its invisibility, and the mystery which was attached to it, made this organization doubly terrible.
It appeared to be omniscient and omnipotent, and yet was neither seen nor heard. The man who
held out against the Church vanished away, and none knew whither he had gone or what had befallen
him. His wife and his children awaited him at home, but no father ever returned to tell them
how he had fared at the hands of his secret judges. A rash word or a hasty act was followed
by annihilation, and yet none knew what the nature might be of this terrible power which was
suspended over them. If you know
where the book came to light that you have in your hand, you will become responsible for the situation
of the writer; and so supliréis here cercenaréis there, in part descifraréis an obscure word,
in another will understand a circumlocution; on this page will appreciate the true value of
a protest, a praise, a restriction, in that adivinaréis the target of a confession, of a censure,
señalaréis or the true meaning to a proposition too bold.

Few men overlap completely at the surrounding circumstances: few are those that face a great danger
for the mere sake of truth, few people in critical situations do not seek a compromise between their interests
and conscience. In traversing very serious risks, staying faithful
to virtue is heroism, and heroism is a rare thing.

You can not always be said to have been wrong a writer, having been tempered to circumstances,
if it has not violated the rights of justice and truth. Cases there in that silence is prudent
and even mandatory and therefore, it can be forgiven to a writer who has not said what he thought,
provided it did not say anything against I thought. For them to be deepest convictions about
the power Bellarmine indirect, "You would have demanded of him, which was expressed in Paris
in the same manner as in Rome? This would have meant to say, "Speak so that as soon as Parliament
has news of your work, specimens are collected at gunpoint, burned
perhaps one of them by the hand of the executioner, and you expelled
from France or locked in a dungeon.

"

Knowledge of the particular position of the writer, his conduct, morality, character, and even
their education, illustrate much the reader of his works. To be considered by the Luther's words
on celibacy, will not a little to know that the speaker is a friar apostate, married to Catherine
of Borei, and who have been patient enough to blush impudent thousand
times flipping through confessions of Rousseau, will be very little
available to illusions, when the philosopher of Geneva will discuss
philanthropy and moral.

RULE 7 th.

The posthumous works published by hands unknown or unsafe, are suspected
of apocryphal or altered.

The authority of the illustrious deceased little use in such cases: it is he who speaks, but the
editor, pretty sure that the person can not deny.

RULE 8 th.

Stories based on secret reports and unpublished papers, manuscripts
publications the editor claims to have done more to enter orders,
shaping phrases, or clarify some passages do not deserve more credit
than due to whom responsibility for the work out.

RULE 9 ª.

Hidden relations negotiations, state secrets, anecdotes about life spicy Private celebrities
on dark intrigues, and other matters of this kind have be received with extreme suspicion.

If we can hardly clarify the truth of what happens to sunlight, and to the face of the universe,
we promise little regard to what happens in the shadows of the night and into the bowels land.

RULE
10 th.

In the case of old people or very remote, it should give little credence to all that we concerns
on the country's wealth, family size, the treasures of kings, religious ideas, and domestic
habits.

The reason is clear: all these points are hard to find, it takes a long time residence, perfect
knowledge of the language, intelligence branches of his very difficult
and complicated means of acquiring exact information about hidden
objects that provide for exaggeration and that by the natives themselves
are sometimes a lot of ignorance, and to knowingly have thousands
and thousands of reasons to increase or decrease. Finally, in what
ways to play home, no exact knowledge reaches, if you can not penetrate
into the interior of families, seeing them as they speak and act in
the effusion and freedom from their homes [11].

CHAPTER XII.

GENERAL
CONSIDERATIONS ON THE WAY TO KNOW THE NATURE, PROPERTIES AND RELATIONS
OF LIVING.

"Upon this one point your whole faith shall be tested--so it has been decided in the Sacred
Council of Four. The girl is young, and we would not have her wed grey hairs, neither would
we deprive her of all choice. We Elders have many heifers, [29] but our children must also
be provided. Stangerson has a son, and Drebber has a son, and either of them would gladly welcome
your daughter to their house. Let her choose between them. They are young and rich, and of
the true faith. What say you to that?"

Ferrier remained silent for some little time with his brows knitted.

"You will give us time," he said at last. "My daughter is very young--she is scarce of an age
to marry."

"She shall have a month to choose," said Young, rising from his seat. "At the end of that time
she shall give her answer."

He was passing through the door, when he turned, with flushed face and flashing eyes. "It were
better for you, John Ferrier," he thundered, "that you and she were now lying blanched skeletons
upon the Sierra Blanco, than that you should put your weak wills against the orders of the
Holy Four!"

With a threatening gesture of his hand, he turned from the door, and Ferrier heard his heavy
step scrunching along the shingly path.

He was still sitting with his elbows upon his knees, considering how he should broach the matter
to his daughter when a soft hand was laid upon his, and looking up, he saw her standing beside
him. One glance at her pale, frightened face showed him that she had heard what had passed.

"I could not help it," she said, in answer to his look. "His voice rang through the house.
Oh, father, father, what shall we do?"

"Don't you scare yourself," he answered, drawing her to him, and passing his broad, rough hand
caressingly over her chestnut hair. "We'll fix it up somehow or another. You don't find your
fancy kind o' lessening for this chap, do you?"

A sob and a squeeze of his hand was her only answer.

"No; of course not. I shouldn't care to hear you say you did. He's a likely lad, and he's a
Christian, which is more than these folk here, in spite o' all their praying and preaching.
There's a party starting for Nevada to-morrow, and I'll manage to send him a message letting
him know the hole we are in. If I know anything o' that young man, he'll be back here with
a speed that would whip electro-telegraphs."

Lucy laughed through her tears at her father's description.

"When he comes, he will advise us for the best. But it is for you that I am frightened, dear.
One hears--one hears such dreadful stories about those who oppose the Prophet: something terrible
always happens to them." In this journal appeared between 1842 and 1847 the second part of tour to Back
Down (1842), El Guajiro (1842), The comb shed (1843), Two Loves (1843), The Penitent (1844), The weaver
Yarey hats (1844-1845) and other minor and multitude of letters, reports and articles on literary
criticism and customs with their shoes name or the pseudonyms of Sansueña, I, The traveling
west, Lola de la Habana and others.

Villaverde, defender of the ideals of independence, participated as a very active propagandist in
the conspiracy of La Mina de la Rosa Cubana, 1848. When discovered it by informing a conspirator
was arrested in Havana and sentenced first to death 'in garrote "and more later than ten years
in prison.

Escaped on March 31, 1849 with other prisoners and hidden in the hold of a coastal schooner,
arrived in the United States.

In North America continued to fight for his political principles. Secretary was in New York Narciso
López, whom he knew since 1846, and editor in chief of The Truth.

Published in New Orleans between 1853 and 1854 the newspaper The Independent, etc.

He moved to Philadelphia in 1854, where he lived as a Spanish teacher and married with Emilia Casanova,
a leading activist in the Cuban independence.

He returned to Havana in 1858, received amnesty. Here he worked at the forefront of printing the
Antilla, which published some works of interest to our letters, including items manners of
Anselmo Suárez y Romero, and assisted in the literary journal in the company of Havana Sterling
and Calcagno, with important critical judgments about Betancourt
and other contemporaries.

He returned to New York soon after, where he continued his work as a teacher and journalist.
It was then The American writer (1861-62), The American Enlightenment
(1865-1869), The Mirror and The Warning Hispanoamericano.

In 1864 his wife founded a school in Wechawken. During this second stay in the United States
continued to fight for the independence of Cuba, like many other Cubans of his time. He only returned
to the island in 1888 for two weeks.

He died in New York on October 20, 1894. His figure to die had the admiration and recognition
of his contemporaries both as patriot and novelist.

The novel that cemented his literary reputation was Cecilia Valdés or La Loma del Angel, published
in final form in New York in 1882.

None of his previous works responded to efforts as high or as it awoke the enthusiasm of audiences
and critics. It Villaverde reflects the panorama of life in Cuba from 1812 to 1831. Show your
political categories, social and economic evils and terrible suffering. The work, with its powerful
classes and oppressed classes, with corrupt officials and indolent bourgeoisie, with its mulatto
discriminated against and their black slaves with their families enriched by the slave system
and aristocratic coats of arms purchased from the decrepit Spanish monarchy serves enlightening
preface to our republican history.

The atmosphere of this colonial era, moved with the breadth and detail abounds pages of the book,
is decisive in the play, which determines its validity in assessing critics. For Cecilia Valdés is far
from a perfect work.

The author explains in the preface to his creative process, a process that undoubtedly resented the ending
balance work.

The central issue - the drama of love, jealousy, revenge and death - hardly differs from usual
in the brochures of the time, the characters do not transcend most of the features outside, the
action is disjointed and rambling, stolen the story and main characters by creatures and minor
events, the style, hybrid, full of romantic weaknesses among those dawning glimpses realistic language,
oscillating between the most archaic foraging and the spontaneous popular turn ours outcome,
hit, in contradiction with the dimensions of the narrative.

But Cecilia Valdés is in our literary history, despite these numerous
and serious shortcomings the best novel of the nineteenth century
building.

Many Cubans know it today through the stage adaptation of José Agustín
Rodríguez Sánchez Arcilla, admirably into music by Gonzalo Roig; version
that was necessarily vertebrate with the history of the protagonists.

Stripped of luxury descriptive of its environment, the case is weak
and melodramatic.

This acclaimed adaptation confirms that the fundamental Cecilia Valdés
is on the environment.

His habit of vigorous political inquiry, social and economic, is that attenuates its shortcomings
and sets to work on the doors of the novel realistic.

THE CUBAN

Far from Cuba, without hope of seeing its bright, flowers, and palms,
to whom, but you, faces countrywomen, reflecting the most beautiful
side of the country, would enshrine with more justice, these sad pages?

THE

AUTHOR

PROLOGUE

Published the first volume of this novel, Don Lino Printing Literary mid Valdés the year 1839. At one
time I began the composition of the second volume, which was complete;
but it did not work very well because I moved shortly after one of
the Matanzas The teachers of the College of Business, recently founded
in that city, than because a Once there, I undertook the composition
of another novel, Girl with a golden arrow, I concluded and a volume
printed in 1841.

Back in the capital in the year 1842, without leaving the exercise
of teaching, I entered joined the staff of El Faro Industrial, which
consecrated all literary works and romantic which continued almost
without interruption until mid-1848.

In his columns, among many other writings of various kinds, appeared in the form of brochures:
- El Ciego and his dog, an excursion to the Lower Back, The Comb Hollow, El Guajiro, Two Loves,
The Missionary of Caroni, the Penitent, etc.

After midnight of October 20 last year said, I was surprised in bed prisoner, with great shock of
soldiers and officers by the district commissioner of Monserrate, Barreda; and taken to the
public prison, by order of Captain General of the island, Don Federico Roncaly.

Which beast locked in a dark, dank dungeon, stood six consecutive months, the out of which, after trial
and sentenced to prison for Permanent Military Commission as a conspirator against the rights
of the crown of Spain, managed to escape on 4 April 1849, together with Don Vicente Fernández
Blanco, guilty of criminal offense and jail Keychain Rey Garcia, who in a little was due to
a serious difficulty between the governments of Spain and the United States. By a strange coincidence
the three of us together on sailboat Havana harbor, but our company only lasted until the Apalachicola
estuary on the coast southern Florida, where I went by land to Savannah
and New York.

Outside of Cuba, reform my way of life: pickup truck my literary tastes by higher thoughts spent
in the world of illusions, the world of realities; left, finally, the frivolous land occupations
of slaves in a slave, to take part in the companies of free men Free
ground.

Abode beyond my manuscripts and books, but I got some time later, it was given me to do anything
with them since first as editor of The Truth Cuban separatist newspaper, then as military secretary
of General Narciso Lopez, took very active and eventful life, has nothing else to sedentary
work and studies.

With the failure of the issuance of Cárdenas in 1850, the disaster
of the invasion of the Pools and death of the illustrious leader of
our revolutionary attempt in 1851, did not stop before revived new
projects to liberate Cuba, who came stroking the Cuban patriots from
the very beginning of this century.

All, however, which ended earlier disaster and misfortune for the year 1854.

In 1858 I was in Havana after nine years of absence. Reprinted then my novel Two Amores, in
print of Mr. Happy Massana, on his advice the company rushed to revise, better yet, to merge the other
novel, Cecilia Valdés, which was only printed the first volume and a small manuscript of the
second.

The new plan had drawn up its smallest details, written warning and proceeded to the development
of the action, when again had to leave the country.

The vicissitudes which followed the second voluntary expatriation, the need to provide to keep
family in a foreign country, the political turmoil that began in
1865 felt in Cuba, then undertook journalistic work, gave me no encouragement
or leisure to indulge in long work without expectation of immediate
profit, and therefore tedious - that demanded the weeding, widening
and consolidation of the most voluminous and complicated for my works
literary.

After the new agitation from 1865 to 1868 came the revolution of the last year appointed and war
a bloody decade in Cuba, accompanied by tumultuous scenes of Cuban expatriates in all the countries
surrounding it, especially in New York. As before and as always, pickup truck literary occupations
for militant politics, whereas unfolded here pen and the word at least as strongly that there
rifle and machete.

During most of that period of delirium and patriotic dreams, slept, of course, the manuscript
of the novel. What do I say? not progressed beyond a half-dozen chapters, drawn at odd moments,
when memories of the homeland steeped in the blood of its best children, offered in all its
horror and all its beauty and seemed to demand of those who good
and much loved, the true picture of its existence under the triple
physical standpoint, moral and social, before his death and his exaltation
to the lives of free people to change all the characteristics of its
previous appearance.

Hopefully, that in no way can truly say that I have spent forty years (period studied from 1839
to date) in the composition of the novel.

When I decided to finish it, There will be two or three years, more than I could do was send a
chapter, with many interruptions, every fortnight, sometimes every month, working several hours
on weekdays and all day on Sundays.

With this way of composing works of the imagination, it is difficult to maintain constant interest
narrative, not always animated and united action, or even, natural style, nor the warm tone and sustained
demand production of the novel. And this is one of the reasons that impel me to talk about
the novel and me.

The other is that after all I have left the picture as bleak and tragic character, that, as I
am Cuban to the core of the bones and a man of morality, I feel a kind of fear or shame present
to the public without an explanatory word of apology. Harto as I can see that strangers, say,
people who do not know about the customs nor the time in the history of Cuba that I wanted to paint,
they may feel that the colors chosen darker shadows and overload the box for the sheer pleasure of
causing effect to Rembrandt, or Gustavo Doré. Nothing farther from my mind. I pride myself on
being before anything else, realist writer, taking this word in the artistic sense that is given
in modern times.

More than thirty years since I read any novel, Walter Scott and Manzoni being the only models
that I could continue to draw the various pictures of Cecilia Valdés. I acknowledge that would
have been better for my work that I had written an idyll, a pastoral romance, even a story like
that of Paul and Virginia [1] or Atala and Rene, [2] but this, although
more entertaining and moral, there would have been the portrait of
any living person, or description customs and passions of a people
of flesh and blood, subject to special political laws and civil rights,
embedded in a certain order of ideas and surrounded by real and positive
influences.

Far to invent or fake characters and fanciful and improbable scenes, I've taken the realism
I understand, to the point of presenting the main characters in the novel with all their hair and
signs, as they say, wearing the suit he wore in life, most under his real first and last name, speaking
the same language used in the historical scenes that included, in what could be copied, d'après
nature [3] its moral and physical appearance, so that those who knew them by sight or by tradition,
easily recognize them and say at least: the resemblance is undeniable.

Hardly have aspired to something else.

All I have to add in my conscience, if someone deems that painting is nothing holy or edifying
is that, by placing the action of the novel in the Havana theater and season run from 1812 to 1831,
I found characters that could represent faithfully the paper medium, for example, the payo Lorenzo,
or Don Abundio the timid, or the energetic Father Christopher, the saint or the Archbishop
Carlos Borromeo, to step abounded that could happen, without contradiction, faithful copies
of the pipes, the stagehands and Don Rodrigo, thugs, brave and libertine,
whose generation seems to be all countries and all ages.

Neither should be attributed to lack of the author if the picture is not shown, no lesson,
not teach delight. The most I have been given to do is to refrain from any indecent or vulgar
paint, missing was easy to make, bearing in mind the conditions, the character and passions
of the majority of actors in the novel, because I have never believed
that the writer public in an effort to seem true and accurate painter
of manners, you forget that you deserve respect virtue and modesty
of the reader.

Moreover, if the work comes to light now complete, contains all speech
defects and style that brought the first volume printed in Havana,
if there is greater fairness and truth in painting characters, if
they are removed certain scenes and little phrases or doubtful morality,
if the general tone of the composition is more uniform and animated,
in much part to the advice of my wife, with whom I have consulted
chapter after chapter, As was concluded.

     
      C. VILLAVERDE

        

New York, May, 1879

PART

CHAPTER I

Such is the fruit of sin, Tello, harvest of pain.

SOLIS

Towards dusk one day in November 1812, following the street Compostela direction north of the
city, a carriage pulled by two mules, one of which, as was customary, he rode the black coachman.
The latter suit, the garrisons of those and solid silver ornaments, showed clearly that the
person was rich belonging as luxurious luggage. Was pinned to the cabochons, not only from the
front, but also on one side and the other half - the curtain or cloth cap with a band of cowhide.
Be the one who held the carriage was at the time, there is no denying he was interested in save
the mystery, though it seemed excused caution, since there was no living soul in the streets,
or another light could see the stars, or some artificial houses that
escaped through the wide cracks of closed doors.

Suddenly stopped the mules trotted into the corner of the alley of San Juan de Dios and left space
and no little trouble with the buggy a tall, good job, evening dress
black buttoned to the neck, revealing underneath the vest or light-colored
waistcoat, carranclán pants up, tie bristle and beaver hat with enormous
glass wing narrow.

As could be discerned in the half light of the stars, the factions most notable were the nose
man, who was hooked, very bright eyes, the face oval and small beard.

The color of it and the hair, shades and hat altered the convent
walls neighbor, obscured perhaps without being black.

- Follow up
the street from the Stoned - said the gentleman in an imperious tone,
lower support left hand on the saddle of the mule yards - and looks
away to the corner.

If round to give you, say you belong to Don Joaquin Gomez and awaiting orders. Do you understand,
Pio?

- Yes, sir, "replied the coachman, who since he started talking about his master had his hat in
hand.

And following the passage of mules to the point that you said that.

Alley San Juan de Dios consists of two blocks only, closed at one end on the walls of the convent
of Santa Catalina and the other in the houses of the street Havana. The hospital of San Juan de Dios,
which gives its name, and which high and square windows, always let
out the hot breath of the sick, occupies an entire side of the second
block and the other three small houses and a single red tile floor,
the last notably higher than the street level, with one and two stone
steps to the door.

The best looking of them were entering the first block of the street de Compostela. Were all
the same size, more or less, single window and door, this cedar with large-headed nails, painted
brick, or mirror it or flown [4] and thick wooden balusters. The floor of the street was in
its primitive natural state, rocky and without sidewalks.

The strange gentleman, leaning against the walls, under the projecting eaves tiles stopped at
the door of the third house on the right and gave two taps with the tip fingers. There no doubt waiting
for him, because soon open what it took to move from door window
to the person who removed the gate that closes on the inside.

That was be the mistress of the house, mulatto and 40 years of age, of medium height, filled
with meats, but retained the narrow waist, rounded shoulders, bare, beautiful head, the rather
thick nose, mouth, expressive and very curly thick hair. Embroidered shirt wore thin, shirts,
and twill skirts without folds or no embellishment.

There was little furniture in the room, leaning against the right wall a mahogany table on which
burned a wax candle in a windshield or lantern, and several heavy chairs cedar cowhide seat
and back, nailed with brass tacks. At that time this had the luxury,
much more for a woman of color, who occupied that room as love and
not as a maid. The gentleman shook his hand as he entered, he only
bowed serious while being funny and kind that no contest was even
stranger, because apart their difference in status and race, their
respective ages was remarkable at first view and there was no other
relationship between them than friendship, more or less sincere and
selfless.

"Nine from seven," cried the sentinel.

"Seven from five," returned Jefferson Hope promptly, remembering the countersign which he had
heard in the garden.

"Pass, and the Lord go with you," said the voice from above. Beyond his post the path broadened
out, and the horses were able to break into a trot. Looking back, they could see the solitary
watcher leaning upon his gun, and knew that they had passed the outlying post of the chosen
people, and that freedom lay before them.

CHAPTER V. THE AVENGING ANGELS.

ALL night their course lay through intricate defiles and over irregular and rock-strewn paths.
More than once they lost their way, but Hope's intimate knowledge of the mountains enabled
them to regain the track once more. When morning broke, a scene of marvellous though savage
beauty lay before them. In every direction the great snow-capped peaks hemmed them in, peeping
over each other's shoulders to the far horizon. So steep were the rocky banks on either side
of them, that the larch and the pine seemed to be suspended over their heads, and to need only
a gust of wind to come hurtling down upon them. Nor was the fear entirely an illusion, for
the barren valley was thickly strewn with trees and boulders which had fallen in a similar
manner. Even as they passed, a great rock came thundering down with a hoarse rattle which woke
the echoes in the silent gorges, and startled the weary horses into a gallop.

As the sun rose slowly above the eastern horizon, the caps of the great mountains lit up one
after the other, like lamps at a festival, until they were all ruddy and glowing. The magnificent
spectacle cheered the hearts of the three fugitives and gave them fresh energy. At a wild torrent
which swept out of a ravine they called a halt and watered their horses, while they partook
of a hasty breakfast. Lucy and her father would fain have rested longer, but Jefferson Hope
was inexorable. "They will be upon our track by this time," he said. "Everything depends upon
our speed. Once safe in Carson we may rest for the remainder of our lives."

During the whole of that day they struggled on through the defiles, and by evening they calculated
that they were more than thirty miles from their enemies. At night-time they chose the base
of a beetling crag, where the rocks offered some protection from the chill wind, and there
huddled together for warmth, they enjoyed a few hours' sleep. Before daybreak, however, they
were up and on their way once more. They had seen no signs of any pursuers, and Jefferson Hope
began to think that they were fairly out of the reach of the terrible organization whose enmity
they had incurred. He little knew how far that iron grasp could reach, or how soon it was to
close upon them and crush them.

About the middle of the second day of their flight their scanty store of provisions began to
run out. This gave the hunter little uneasiness, however, for there was game to be had among
the mountains, and he had frequently before had to depend upon his rifle for the needs of life.
Choosing a sheltered nook, he piled together a few dried branches and made a blazing fire,
at which his companions might warm themselves, for they were now nearly five thousand feet
above the sea level, and the air was bitter and keen. Having tethered the horses, and bade
Lucy adieu, he threw his gun over his shoulder, and set out in search of whatever chance might
throw in his way. Looking back he saw the old man and the young girl crouching over the blazing
fire, while the three animals stood motionless in the back-ground. Then the intervening rocks
hid them from his view.

He walked for a couple of miles through one ravine after another without success, though from
the marks upon the bark of the trees, and other indications, he judged that there were numerous
bears in the vicinity. At last, after two or three hours' fruitless search, he was thinking
of turning back in despair, when casting his eyes upwards he saw a sight which sent a thrill
of pleasure through his heart. On the edge of a jutting pinnacle, three or four hundred feet
above him, there stood a creature somewhat resembling a sheep in appearance, but armed with
a pair of gigantic horns. The big-horn--for so it is called--was acting, probably, as a guardian
over a flock which were invisible to the hunter; but fortunately it was heading in the opposite
direction, and had not perceived him. Lying on his face, he rested his rifle upon a rock, and
took a long and steady aim before drawing the trigger. The animal sprang into the air, tottered
for a moment upon the edge of the precipice, and then came crashing down into the valley beneath.

The creature was too unwieldy to lift, so the hunter contented himself with cutting away one
haunch and part of the flank. With this trophy over his shoulder, he hastened to retrace his
steps, for the evening was already drawing in. He had hardly started, however, before he realized
the difficulty which faced him. In his eagerness he had wandered far past the ravines which
were known to him, and it was no easy matter to pick out the path which he had taken. The valley
in which he found himself divided and sub-divided into many gorges, which were so like each
other that it was impossible to distinguish one from the other. 

I heard that the character of Mr. Cane is as cheerful as kind and frank in his book wanted, no doubt,
make a show of skepticism, and hints at a lot - too much? - often As always note the eternal annoyance.
And yet, how bitter contradiction holds that original desire to appear annoyed! Mr. Cane annoyed
when, in his prime the old has gone the highest positions in his country, but finding no smiles
everywhere, but not stepping on flowers, darling of the goddess Fortuna! Could it be perhaps that apparent
luxury real nuisance happiness? ...

       * * * * *

We are witnessing a travel book written by a person who, despite having traveled lot is not
really a traveler. The author does not feel the passion of travel: supports in spite of the discomforts
material moves from one point to another, but damn nuisances the sea voyage, changing trains
the lousy hotels, etc., etc. Talk about your trip with a coldness that freezes: semiescéptico
adopts a certain style, semiburlón, to laugh those who claim to have
that passion so scary.

'Many times - he says - in a room, bright light, or an elegant table and delicate, I heard a man,
cultured, refined, well-placed: I have a passion for travel, and take your face vague expression
of a spirit that floats on the prospect of far horizons, I have come
reminded of the cabin, the mate, the havoc caused, pipe, all the miseries
of life sea, and I wanted to see the poetic charms given to the traveler
who dreams!

".

Ah, the joys of travel by them, without any concern, seeking to please the intellectual curiosity
always sharp, never satisfied There's nothing in the world can compared to the satisfaction of the
need to see and know: the impression is of clarity, a sincerity of such a force that embodies
the description that unintentionally transmitting the reader the
sensation, and seems to really read those pages that are traversed
regions described therein.

That vivacity of emotion, that special pleasure which is experienced, understands only the true
traveler, who feel nostalgia of travel when in his corner who lives with life and intense retrospective
of the years in which travel the world. And a spirit worship, for a lively intelligence and a restless
curiosity, what curse is the gift of passion for travel! The horizon seems to close when you
have to give to meet this friend tyrannical atmosphere of routine existence, quiet, the thousand
charms of bourgeois life, which stifles: daydreams about exotic countries, with lines, local
styles, with customs disappear, with cities that are transformed The pleasure of riding the world watching,
analyzing and comparing! And the damn cosmopolitanism contemporary, with its fury leveling, invades
everywhere with his perennial cannot, its horrible dress, the superficiality of manners colorless
- blurring, thanks to the advancement of roads, the natural charm of the local, the man with
his history and customs, according to the latitude in which it is.

The pleasure of travel is a divine gift: it requires its followers a set of conditions not found
in every mouth-street, and hence the common approach or bourgeois flatness can not understand that may
be on travel and emigration enjoyment one and only seen in the translation from one point to another
disruption of daily life and rutinera, discomfort materials, have
to find things unknown, and that irritates them, makes them uncomfortable,
because the intellect are lazy and got used to his mechanical work
and known.

But the few who can appreciate and understand what it means travel, living a double life, because
they simply close their eyes for a moment, referred to evoke a landscape, and it revives with
an intensity of life, with a force of color, with an accuracy of
the details seems to transport us to the moment you first look at
and delete and the notion of time since then. With indomitable
patience and perseverance, Jefferson Hope possessed also a power of sustained vindictiveness,
which he may have learned from the Indians amongst whom he had lived. As he stood by the desolate
fire, he felt that the only one thing which could assuage his grief would be thorough and complete
retribution, brought by his own hand upon his enemies. His strong will and untiring energy
should, he determined, be devoted to that one end. With a grim, white face, he retraced his
steps to where he had dropped the food, and having stirred up the smouldering fire, he cooked
enough to last him for a few days. This he made up into a bundle, and, tired as he was, he
set himself to walk back through the mountains upon the track of the avenging angels.

For five days he toiled footsore and weary through the defiles which he had already traversed
on horseback. At night he flung himself down among the rocks, and snatched a few hours of sleep;
but before daybreak he was always well on his way. On the sixth day, he reached the Eagle Cañon,
from which they had commenced their ill-fated flight. Thence he could look down upon the home
of the saints. Worn and exhausted, he leaned upon his rifle and shook his gaunt hand fiercely
at the silent widespread city beneath him. As he looked at it, he observed that there were
flags in some of the principal streets, and other signs of festivity. He was still speculating
as to what this might mean when he heard the clatter of horse's hoofs, and saw a mounted man
riding towards him. As he approached, he recognized him as a Mormon named Cowper, to whom he
had rendered services at different times. He therefore accosted him when he got up to him,
with the object of finding out what Lucy Ferrier's fate had been.

"I am Jefferson Hope," he said. "You remember me."

The Mormon looked at him with undisguised astonishment--indeed, it was difficult to recognize
in this tattered, unkempt wanderer, with ghastly white face and fierce, wild eyes, the spruce
young hunter of former days. Having, however, at last, satisfied himself as to his identity,
the man's surprise changed to consternation.

"You are mad to come here," he cried. "It is as much as my own life is worth to be seen talking
with you. There is a warrant against you from the Holy Four for assisting the Ferriers away."

"I don't fear them, or their warrant," Hope said, earnestly. "You must know something of this
matter, Cowper. I conjure you by everything you hold dear to answer a few questions. We have
always been friends. For God's sake, don't refuse to answer me."

"What is it?" the Mormon asked uneasily. "Be quick. The very rocks have ears and the trees eyes."

"What has become of Lucy Ferrier?"

"She was married yesterday to young Drebber. Hold up, man, hold up, you have no life left in you."

"Don't mind me," said Hope faintly. He was white to the very lips, and had sunk down on the
stone against which he had been leaning. "Married, you say?"

"Married yesterday--that's what those flags are for on the Endowment House. There was some
words between young Drebber and young Stangerson as to which was to have her. They'd both been
in the party that followed them, and Stangerson had shot her father, which seemed to give him
the best claim; but when they argued it out in council, Drebber's party was the stronger, so
the Prophet gave her over to him. No one won't have her very long though, for I saw death in
her face yesterday. She is more like a ghost than a woman. Are you off, then?"

"Yes, I am off," said Jefferson Hope, who had risen from his seat. His face might have been
chiselled out of marble, so hard and set was its expression, while its eyes glowed with a baleful
light.

"Where are you going?"

"Never mind," he answered; and, slinging his weapon over his shoulder, strode off down the
gorge and so away into the heart of the mountains to the haunts of the wild beasts. Amongst
them all there was none so fierce and so dangerous as himself.

The prediction of the Mormon was only too well fulfilled. Whether it was the terrible death
of her father or the effects of the hateful marriage into which she had been forced, poor Lucy
never held up her head again, but pined away and died within a month. Her sottish husband,
who had married her principally for the sake of John Ferrier's property, did not affect any
great grief at his bereavement; but his other wives mourned over her, and sat up with her the
night before the burial, as is the Mormon custom. They were grouped round the bier in the early
hours of the morning, when, to their inexpressible fear and astonishment, the door was flung
open, and a savage-looking, weather-beaten man in tattered garments strode into the room. Without
a glance or a word to the cowering women, he walked up to the white silent figure which had
once contained the pure soul of Lucy Ferrier. Stooping over her, he pressed his lips reverently
to her cold forehead, and then, snatching up her hand, he took the wedding-ring from her finger.
"She shall not be buried in that," he cried with a fierce snarl, and before an alarm could
be raised sprang down the stairs and was gone. So strange and so brief was the episode, that
the watchers might have found it hard to believe it themselves or persuade other people of
it, had it not been for the undeniable fact that the circlet of gold which marked her as having
been a bride had disappeared.

For some months Jefferson Hope lingered among the mountains, leading a strange wild life, and
nursing in his heart the fierce desire for vengeance which possessed him. Tales were told in
the City of the weird figure which was seen prowling about the suburbs, and which haunted the
lonely mountain gorges. Once a bullet whistled through Stangerson's window and flattened itself
upon the wall within a foot of him. On another occasion, as Drebber passed under a cliff a
great boulder crashed down on him, and he only escaped a terrible death by throwing himself
upon his face. The two young Mormons were not long in discovering the reason of these attempts
upon their lives, and led repeated expeditions into the mountains in the hope of capturing
or killing their enemy, but always without success. Then they adopted the precaution of never
going out alone or after nightfall, and of having their houses guarded. After a time they were
able to relax these measures, for nothing was either heard or seen of their opponent, and they
hoped that time had cooled his vindictiveness.

Far from doing so, it had, if anything, augmented it. The hunter's mind was of a hard, unyielding
nature, and the predominant idea of revenge had taken such complete possession of it that there
was no room for any other emotion. The distinguished Mr. Céspedes, Argentine Consul
Colon, who is there to make his fortune incomparable heroism, is, by my misfortune, in bed.
What to do? "Visiting the city? Twenty minutes, c'est fait. Barro and wooden houses, nothing.
Get to read ... "In my room? I prefer death! And here I am you, as we hear, set in a bar-room
table of my hotel, with a cocktail pro forma, ahead, studying for six consecutive hours, the
sailors played pool and the many patrons of the counter. One of them, a merchant captain Yankee
came to a slightly stippled and absorbed half a glass of a drink that had to go around burnt sugar
edges to avoid contact of the lips. For four hours, Yankee came regularly every twenty minutes and
a dose of identical engorged proportions. Under the unbearable heat of the day and in the struggle
with internal vapors were about to make him explode, the eyes of the U.S. leaping red ... At four
in the afternoon fell drunk dead, two sailors dragged him into a corner and stood there.

In one corner of the room, taking at most a space five feet square,
a young Swiss had set up his window and watch your table.

I had it before me, during half hour rubbed with a cloth a clock spring, then dropped his head
in his hands, that at the end of the day was observed (not one customer had come!) saw him run two
tears streaming down her cheeks. More than once I had the urge to go and talk to the poor watchmaker;
but in my turn, I was so nervous and irritable, which I finally bother me to the unhappy before
him.

Those who have not traveled or have done only in major European centers
can not exact realization of a state of mind as one in which I was.

The spirit forms the chimera that it is impossible to leave it, that martyrdom will be prolonged
indefinitely. At every moment, and take courage, it is necessary to take his wallet (I never
care as there), said that there are ways to go at any time, the vapors expect and finally, that if one is
in the center, is a book and premeditated act of will.

At last night came, and when I remember, I declare that I feel a great satisfaction for having
referred to this table and unique.

I have said that Columbus is composed almost entirely in one street, but I forgot to mention that
over the same runs a Recoba kind of entries to protect against frequent rain. I walked under
her to drop the first shadows and I noticed that in front of every hotel, every bar-room, every
door, a man pulled a small folding table, was installed before she lit a lamp, arranged in
a semicircle a few dozen art piastres silver, and began to beat thundered a huge horn dice
provided. Ship moored to the shore, once gave seven, began dating a cloud of sailors and officers,
foremen, etc., soon blocked the road, forming compact groups before each table. As if a blow had
driven the mud and formed with the female body, sprang from the ground in an instant hundreds
of black, mulatto, quadroon livid, barefoot mostly, drunken, filthy, in turn, attracted by
the fascination of the game, crowded around the tables, gnashed their teeth when they were down and
jumped to the sailors shaky, asking, in a language other than English or French, or Spanish,
or anything known one of these real coins to the Americans call a dime.

The bar-rooms were full, no sound was hoarse and guttural voice of Black people in Jamaica, blasphemous
eternal sailor speak English and some foul Cadiz. Out and the first table threw a coin, then another
and, once exhausted, he entered the neighbor, the gleaming blades
and effort was only possible to separate.

One was rolling in the mud two or three drunken women dancing to an organ in which an Italian face
on Mars, played a wild cancan. Sweltering heat and unbearable atmosphere, such as noise, curses,
sarcasm, the eternal fight with the banker who was quicker as parishioners saw more point ...
and I reclined in my column, wondering what he was doing between that world, modern and very real
Sabbath to convince me I was not dreaming. I Columbus then, a license, an absolute freedom to all
the vices and human degradation. He who pays a small tax has the right to establish their outdoor
table, and what mat! Exploitation, theft more outrageous the sailor as a beast ignorant that
under the fumes of liquor, leaving a strip of the award year of work, playing their lives in
storms. These women, especially those women, filthy harpies, black and angular, spreading the
mixture around your innate odor and patchouli makes a turn the stomach! ... Pouah! ...

Come to my room, suffocating, without being able to strip out of disgust to bed, I sat in a
chair and I called to account. Had resolved to spend ten days in the Isthmus and that day was
almost held my ticket in the City of Para, who came to New York in the period indicated. There
same, in all seriousness, I imposed an oath to leave Columbus, renouncing Panama, channel, the
whole world, the first ship that will sail, no matter to where.

How I Spent that night, what say? At dawn I was standing, I put in the field and knew that two days
left for New York after the steam Alene, company Atlas. I took my ticket on the spot and I
carry my luggage on board, congratulating me on having enough time to go to a forthcoming Channel
stations and to see with my own eyes the progress of work and the future of the company. I
paid my account of the infamous mulatto, and when I came on board, vapor in a small and uncomfortable,
I thought solemnly entered paradise.

A glance at the geographical map of the land has given birth in the minds of men the idea of
​​correcting certain vagaries of nature at the time of the geological formation the world. The
Isthmus of Corinth, the Suez and Panama, have been successively in time and space, of concern to
all those who sought ways to increase the welfare of mankind.

The Greeks, with their religious beliefs that impelled the personification of all items considered
a sacrilege to attempt to change aspects of the known world, and Aeschylus Xerxes attributed the
disaster to divine retribution, by the haughty manner in which the Persian monarch treated
the Hellespont. The Romans, some browsers even fixed their gaze on the Isthmus of Suez, for his
legions were accustomed to go the whole earth with his step-martial.

Was necessary commercial development wondrous world of the West, so that dream of opening new shipping
routes and economical to become a reality. The old land that led to the East, was abandoned when
Basque Gama rounded the Cape of Storms, and in turn the route of the famous Portuguese gave way
to that outlined so wonderfully modern wit personified in the "Great
French", as it's called M. de Lesseps.

What commands respect in the work of this man, not the concept of idea, which ran many years
ago in the intellectual field. It is the perseverance to habituate the public mind to deal
with a company of this magnitude with serenity, with positive views a quick and easy business,
is the tenacity of their fight against England, he believes see she committed their interests.
The experience of Suez is against the relentless dull British resistance, and in ten years with
incredible read the book just amazed published, in which the most remarkable men of England
declared a threat to drilling independence Channel Tunnel! Maybe so, today we see sarcastic The
Times, mocking intended Stephenson locomotive traveling with a distance twenty miles per hour!

The Isthmus of Panama is one of those geographical points, such as Constantinople, are called
the importance of all time. Central point of two continents, a must for European trade with five
or six American nations, it is natural to have dialed the attention of the big punch. The Americans,
built the railroad that passes through and establishing the lowest rates leonine known on earth
[28], believed unnecessary the excavation of the canal, which, worthy sons of the English,
never looked with favor.

Lesseps's perseverance triumphed once again, and the new route received his elementary stroke
[29].

What is the economic result of the Panama Canal? Since then, the approach, by cheapness of
transportation, of all the lands washed by the Pacific from the Bering Strait to Chile itself,
with the major European centers. Magellan's route will be abandoned by the same identical
result to that of the Basque left Gama, and the commercial importance
the strait has been on the verge of starting the war in the far south
of America, will have disappeared completely.

Even in the day, the whole trade of Peru and the movement of passengers, is made by Panama
despite the inconveniences and delays of transshipment and the enormity of the rail freight Isthmian.
Chileans tend to prefer them that way, they avoid the rough seas of the South and tired of this
monotonous navigation, while the northern route has calm seas and
frequent stops to lighten the heaviness of the trip.

After opening the canal, rare will therefore be the vessel to search for the Strait of Magellan
into the Pacific. For Chileans, and perhaps for Peruvians, just one path to lead fight against
via Panama, is the rail that attaches to Buenos Aires to Chile. That will be the required path
of most Americans of the Pacific, in transit to Europe, because it will be shorter, faster and
more enjoyable.

Now, will the channel, with the sanctioned budget and time specified in M. Program de Lesseps?
I move with deep conviction my negative opinion. It is not here, and M. de Lesseps begins to understand
and, in a work like that of Suez. Missing Khedive, missing hundreds of thousands of fellahs,
who died in the task, as their ancestors now forty centuries in the
construction of the pyramids that are still on the sands, monuments
of these senseless slaughters human.

The passenger is now crossing the Suez Canal, yawning at the monotonous landscape of sand and telegraph
poles, never thinks about - and does well, because there is no reason to stir the blood in
a retrospective sentimentality - in the bodies were left lying along these aggregate piers.
Were fellahs, slaves without a voice or right, and nobody talked
about them.

But in Panama there is no fellahs Khedive and sanitation conditions are still lower than those
of Suez.

Just know the name of some points along the route of the Isthmus names coming from the conquest,
such as "Kill Christians", to realize the fun climate of those locations. Europe does not stand
the blazing sun to that which inflames the skull can not fight the emanation exhaled disturbed
soil, moist, marshy lake. How many have died to date from which they were hired, since the
beginning of the company? Do not seek official statistics, they hide these things, no doubt
not to disturb the digestion of European shareholders. Look for them in the crosses of cemeteries
in mass graves filled, and train yourselves an idea of ​​the number of casualties in this small
army workers, noting that many engineers, with the main head, people all which served as their
personal hygiene condom, have been among the first to fall under the fever of the Isthmus.

Has stopped and the flow of Europeans, and a moment thought of the Chinese. But as they are
more skilled than strengths, and how, despite the Chinese, are deadly,
I think has withdrawn the project.

There is also an economic reason, in all these great companies: money from the laborers, in
their three-quarters re-enters the box through numerous canteens and supplies of all kinds down
on the ground. The Chinese do not consume anything, which certainly does not make very sympathetic
to the company.

Finally, it has seized from the natives, that is, those who are accustomed
to the climate, could be longer, and he has hired a large number of
Panamanians, Samaria, Cartagena, costarriquenses, looking for recruits
to the West Indies next.

But all those people without needs, used to live one day with a banana, is neither strong nor
industrious, nor subject to military discipline essential for companies of that magnitude.

Lacking
men, M. de Lesseps appealed to the construction industry contracted in the United enormous
excavation machines, which had iron teeth to replace the arm human. Work is necessary to see
these monsters to know how far power mechanics.

The motor construction engineer was fixed to the endless movement pulleys Universal Exhibition
in Philadelphia, said that if I had a point outside the world place your machine, pull out the
Earth from its orbit.

He was right, as Archimedes did.

But there is no machine that can combat the torrential rains that
occur in Panama almost without interruption for nine months.

Open a trench at any point line, dug up three to four meters deep, has a shower, it fills and
collapses laboriously extracted into the ground a moment before.

It is useless to think of exhausted, because five minutes later be
full again.

Come sun the next day, hot, swollen, mud is removed for further work, and deleterious miasma
infects the atmosphere.

Will there be any channel? Without a doubt, because it is a work impossible and the resources
today by human industry are endless. But in view of the difficulties I have pointed and that I am
allowed to believe were not taken into view in raising the general guidelines of the work,
I think it is legitimate, according to all the people who have visited the work impartial observer,
that the channel is not open to universal trade within 10 years and after having consumed more
than twice the budgeted amount (six hundred million francs).

But I do not see M. de Lesseps able to carry out the company that will crown her as gently life.
Heaven grant to extend the days of the illustrious old man for his own glory and the benefit
of the whole world!

The difficulties are raised by the United States to the Canal Company Panama, the fiery debates
that this matter originated in Washington and Congress the idea, cherished moment, to protect
all the power of the great nation, the project practice rival canal through Nicaragua. The
strength and toughness M. de Lesseps succeeded once again against the new problem, but the United
States far from the maturity, the issue was revived in the form diplomatic, playing the role
in the memorable debate at the time of writing, not yet exhausted, M. Blaine, whose rapid passage
through the Union Government has made a mark so deep, and the reputation, after the fall, has
been torn apart so ruthlessly by their opponents. For these, M. Blaine has been nothing but
a political adventurer and impure, that has sought to vary the flow of international life for
a century had led without tripping the ship of the Union. Pacific affairs, the inexcusable cheating
people in agony he stretches his arms in desperation to a false promise, the mysteries of the
Peruvian Guano Company, the shameful recantation of Messrs. Trescott and Blaine in Santiago de
Chile, few elements have provided no indictment against Prime Minister President Garfield. It
seems, however, that if a study abroad fair a little the American people now find that it is
possible that the time trial on M. Blaine is not corroborated public opinion within ten years. It is
undeniable that the U.S. is now a powerful stream of reaction against the policy of isolation has
been the basis of the system American and perhaps prosperity. Patriotic dreams and ambitions
aside, deep view about the future, the other, and in the middle, pondering, always serious, narrow
interests, quick and easy profit, have determined the initiation of the propaganda that M. Blaine echoed
in the Government. A compact nation of over fifty million souls, with elements wealth, wit, culture,
equal to at least the first nations of Europe, can not should not, say, indifferent to the
European policy.

For the moment, the issues all of America should be his sole spring,
exerting legitimate hegemony that entitles its importance.

From Cape Horn to the limits Canada should not be another influence that the United States,
or hear other voice that rises in Washington.

This is the fundamental idea that life will soon serve as a party
labarum, headed no doubt see even M. Blaine, despite the sound of
his fall.

And such is the influence exerts on the collective spirit, that she should be the last resurgence
of the doctrine Monroe, which currently holds M. Frelinghysen with equal perseverance than
its predecessor. The debate started between Lord and M. Grenwille Blaine continues in the day,
without showing up now likely to either party subsides.

No historiaré the Clayton-Bulwer treaty, known to all that these issues
are interest, remember only that it was a compromise, a modus vivendi
rather than allow extended English and American influences in the
West Indies and the coasts of Central America in a parallel manner
that does not lead to conflict.

But if Americans were comfortable the treaty when it was insignificant factories tiny islets, not
tried the same thing about the future Panama Canal and reported cleverly
the treaty, claiming the exclusive guarantee of free navigation and
neutrality Isthmus, for themselves.

The British, of course, rejected the complaint and proposed, instead of that guarantee exclusive, all
the powers of Europe, together with States Together. That is the question; volumes of notes
have been changed, but still see a step positive.

Meanwhile, what is the view of Colombia, that after all, taking the territorial sovereignty and
the direct jurisdiction, it seems to me that you can claim a right to be heard? Since then,
is worth remembering that Colombia has had more than once that bring
serious complaints against the inroads of the United States on the
Atlantic coasts of the Isthmus.

Sometimes it's needed shout very loudly to be heard in Europe, and only then, Americans have quit the
dam that peremptorily, with the right of the lion, had taken over, jumping on the treaty Clayton-Bulwer
himself. But a Colombian minister, on his way to Europe, because even in Washington was accredited,
had the idea of ​​signing with the American Office, a protocol, which Colombia declared satisfied
and prefer the security of the United States exclusively. This convention was formally disapproved
in Bogota, but Colombia, including, to my mind However, their convenience, are épingle du jeu strip,
and left face to face England and the Union, stating, moreover, through the voice of the press and
word of their Speakers at the Congress, its undoubted sympathy for the guarantee attached, proposed
by England.

At bottom, the Monroe Doctrine is nothing but an opinion, a desideratum, the longing of a people
that formula and their general interests. But then to turn that opinion at first public law,
there is much distance.

In addition to the principles of law, not only In our century, but at all times, have had very
weakly in solution questions of fact, Americans can not even claim that the Monroe Doctrine
is supported by the universal consensus. Far from it, from the president who gave his name
until now, none has made with its variations in time, without England, and in many cases,
Europe has ceased to protest. Poor Monroe has done many times the role of the wolf! Wolf!
of the fable, but, like the Americans never showed the claw, or if the issue of Mexico, or
when the bombardment of Valparaiso, where bullets spent most of Spanish ships carrying the flag
of stars, no longer believes in it scarecrow.

England replied that, having indisputable interest in the Pacific, and being the Canal Panama
a route to India, it is natural to want to take part in the warranty. Then claim I, too, answered
the United States in the security of the Suez Canal.

The England smiles ... and stresses.

Surely the intention of M. Blaine, when he called the American Congress, which was to meet in
Washington in November 1882, under the pretext of seeking the means
to avert war among the American nations (sic) was just lay on the
table the question of guarantee the Isthmus, and perhaps, to the perseverance
of England, not giving up, propose, rather than its exclusive warranty,
of all the states comprising the two Americas.

What attitude intelligence advised them clear of their interests? What would he say Europe such
a proposition?

We split. I notice that I leave for a moment the general tone of this book of impressions where
I just wanted to record what I have seen and felt almost unknown in countries us. But since
the question first, referring to Colombia, come into my box, and touches on the other hand, not
a current interest, but the steady march of politics American, I
do not enter inappropriate ideas here that a comprehensive study to
suggest me as healthier and more convenient for everyone.

 I guessed that what puzzled
the New Yorkers would puzzle the Londoners, so I dipped my finger in my own blood and printed
it on a convenient place on the wall. Then I walked down to my cab and found that there was
nobody about, and that the night was still very wild. I had driven some distance when I put
my hand into the pocket in which I usually kept Lucy's ring, and found that it was not there.
I was thunderstruck at this, for it was the only memento that I had of her. Thinking that I
might have dropped it when I stooped over Drebber's body, I drove back, and leaving my cab
in a side street, I went boldly up to the house--for I was ready to dare anything rather than
lose the ring. When I arrived there, I walked right into the arms of a police-officer who was
coming out, and only managed to disarm his suspicions by pretending to be hopelessly drunk.

"That was how Enoch Drebber came to his end. All I had to do then was to do as much for Stangerson,
and so pay off John Ferrier's debt. I knew that he was staying at Halliday's Private Hotel,
and I hung about all day, but he never came out. [26] fancy that he suspected something when
Drebber failed to put in an appearance. He was cunning, was Stangerson, and always on his guard.
If he thought he could keep me off by staying indoors he was very much mistaken. I soon found
out which was the window of his bedroom, and early next morning I took advantage of some ladders
which were lying in the lane behind the hotel, and so made my way into his room in the grey
of the dawn. I woke him up and told him that the hour had come when he was to answer for the
life he had taken so long before. I described Drebber's death to him, and I gave him the same
choice of the poisoned pills. Instead of grasping at the chance of safety which that offered
him, he sprang from his bed and flew at my throat. In self-defence I stabbed him to the heart.
It would have been the same in any case, for Providence would never have allowed his guilty
hand to pick out anything but the poison.

"I have little more to say, and it's as well, for I am about done up. I went on cabbing it
for a day or so, intending to keep at it until I could save enough to take me back to America.
I was standing in the yard when a ragged youngster asked if there was a cabby there called
Jefferson Hope, and said that his cab was wanted by a gentleman at 221B, Baker Street. I went
round, suspecting no harm, and the next thing I knew, this young man here had the bracelets
on my wrists, and as neatly snackled [27] as ever I saw in my life. That's the whole of my
story, gentlemen. You may consider me to be a murderer; but I hold that I am just as much an
officer of justice as you are."

So thrilling had the man's narrative been, and his manner was so impressive that we had sat
silent and absorbed. 

In this kind of writing should be distinguished two parts: the descriptions of objects which
seen, or scenes you witnessed the traveler, and other news and observations that fills his
work. As regards the former, we should remember what has been said about the truth; adding two caveats:
1 ª. that distrust of the fidelity of the pictures should be kept some proportion to the distance
from the scene, by the thing: distant lands, Luengas lies, 2 ª. that travelers are at risk
of exaggerating, disfiguring, and to pretend, be doing very wrong ideas about the country that
describe, for the vain itch to be interesting, and given importance, telling outlandish adventures.

As
to the other news and observations, it is possible to reduce fixed
rules how to distinguish truth from error, mostly being impossible
task in many cases.

But it will be characterized by thoughts that somehow fill the void of rules, inspiring mistrust
and maintaining prudent to keep the inexperienced and unwary.

§ II.

Origin and formation of some relationships travel.

How are most of the trips? Spending no more than the most famous places, both in stopping some major
points, and across the country through so quickly as is possible, therefore to instigate this powerful
three reasons: to save time, save money, and lessen the discomfort. If the country is cultivated,
with good roads, with canals, rivers and coasts of rapid navigation, the traveler jumps from
one capital to another shooting like an arrow; asleep with the rocking of the car or ship,
and poking his head out the door to recreate the view of some beautiful landscape, or strolling
on deck watching the banks of the river which robs power. Hence results from across the country
through is completely unknown in regards to ideas, religion and customs. Something is about
the quality of the land and the costumes of the inhabitants, because both objects offered to
the eyes, but even in these things if the traveler is cautious, and attempts to speak general,
readers may disseminate false news items and extravagant. If from here to Some years we go
through the Ebro from Zaragoza to Tortosa, the traveler to paint field and costumes of Aragon
and Catalonia, stick to what we had seen on the banks the river, by the way that they provide
to their readers back crazy.

Now reflect the relationships fond of travel, if you need to do the detailed news about a country
many thousands of square miles described by a passenger who observed in the above manner. "He
who has seen up close what he says, and will without a trace of doubt "in this way you talk,
or credulous reader, thinking that this news gathering put your hard work and care guide, for I'll
tell you what might very well have happened, and again do not leave
so easily fooled.

Travelers come to the capital, perhaps with little knowledge of the language, and perhaps with
any, will be walked dazed and confused some days, in the maze of streets and squares, often
deployed to the city level, asking at every corner, and out of step the best possible way to
find the passport office, the home of the embassy, ​​and sugetos for those who carried the
letter of recommendation. This time is not well adapted to observe, and if at times takes
car to get rid of tiredness and to avoid loss, the worse for the
notes of their portfolio: all paraded his eyes very quickly and in
flashlight magic illusions pictures, collect very pleasant sensations,
but not much news. This power is what
I mean when I talk of reasoning backwards, or analytically."

"I understand," said I.

"Now this was a case in which you were given the result and had to find everything else for
yourself. Now let me endeavour to show you the different steps in my reasoning. To begin at
the beginning. I approached the house, as you know, on foot, and with my mind entirely free
from all impressions. Something square, report, standing there like a monolith
the sidereal time of the cataclysm. At the entrance, but inside the building line, a dozen huge
columns which end truncated ... in a vacuum. Do not say nothing, have a mission to hold nothing,
never hold anything. My friend Rafael Pombo, one of the first Spanish-speaking poets spend
their lives looking to the Capitol and doing projects reforms. The ministers will tremble
when they see it appear in the office with your roll on arm.
 No doubt it appeared
to you to be a mere trampled line of slush, but to my trained eyes every mark upon its surface
had a meaning. There is no branch of detective science which is so important and so much neglected
as the art of tracing footsteps. The Lord seems to not know entodavía. She does not listen to reason.
Is cabecidura the most willful and he was born. Furthermore, from then that set is not in his
right trial and reason. Does the Lord himself did not try that fatal night to comfort her and
reassure her? What drew? Remember what semos: nothing. The Lord will see for themselves that was
chosen bad time to subject it to such a test. There had been forty days and then Flying had a
fever. Yes, and concluded quite shocked and tearful - I have swallowed me that it does not leave
it to trial or alive.

- God will want, Josefa sign that they are not made such dire predictions, said the knight worried.
After a short time he said: - She is young and robust, and yet the nature triumph over all their
woes and sorrows. Trust more in this than in the dark science of physicians. Other than that, you
know you've done done for the good of all rather ... Later I thank you, I'm sure. I could not
and should give her my name. No, no, repeated as embarrassed the echo of his own voice. Nobody knows
better than you. You she is a woman of reason, know and confess that it had to be. Requires
that the girl takes a name, a name that no be ashamed tomorrow, or these other day, Valdes, that might
make a good marriage. To this there was no choice but to pass by the Royal Creche. This has
not been more painful for the mother, I know, that ... all of us. The forcible administration
of poison is by no means a new thing in criminal annals. The cases of Dolsky in Odessa, and
of Leturier in Montpellier, will occur at once to any toxicologist.

"And now came the great question as to the reason why. Robbery had not been the object of the
murder, for nothing was taken. Was it politics, then, or was it a woman? That was the question
which confronted me. I was inclined from the first to the latter supposition. Political assassins
are only too glad to do their work and to fly. This murder had, on the contrary, been done
most deliberately, and the perpetrator had left his tracks all over the room, showing that
he had been there all the time. It must have been a private wrong, and not a political one,
which called for such a methodical revenge. When the inscription was discovered upon the wall
I was more inclined than ever to my opinion. The thing was too evidently a blind. 

And in tears fell on his daughter with the double purpose of preventing the lift and continue in
this terrible rebuke against the unknown gentleman. Prudence or remorse, it was silent and bowed
his head lower. He, however, was very upset and fought with himself to make a decision. Because, providing,
had come to be made available to the recriminations, it seems fair to the patient, who, though
delusional he reproached her daughter's loss and ruin of his reason. But he did not defend himself.
He was, in contrast, humiliated, highly offended by their intentions as being the purer, guided
by the desire for the good of all those immediately concerned, the result had very disastrous
path. In the eyes of his own conscience justification was easy, the world, however, should be
judged by the facts. And this trial it was him Serval horror.

Meanwhile continued the struggle between mother and daughter.

This, with frightened eyes, disheveled hair, his forehead covered with copious sweat, cheeks
flushed by fever, repelled with both hands to the mother and repeated: - Let me, mama, let
me see that face of a heretic. I ask my daughter's account. The I removed it, he, entrails
of a beast. And the mother, always in tears flooded her in his arms, he replied: - By love of
God, my daughter, by the Immaculate Conception of Mary, for your health, the Your daughter,
who is alive and well, shut up, calm down. I'll beg for heaven's sake.

But as the struggle drags on, the gentleman approached the bed, took his hand of the patient,
which she rejected, and deep voice, but filled with exquisite tenderness, he said:

- Charlie, listen. I promise that tomorrow you will see your daughter.
Back at you. Calm down!

No more crazy.

Séase that deal runs out both the forces that impose respect séase voice the unknown, it is certain
that the patient, breathing a deep sigh, fell suddenly back on the
pillow and lay there motionless for a short time. Unless the mother
did not believe, at first, but had expired. All these
considerations led me to the irresistible conclusion that Jefferson Hope was to be found among
the jarveys of the Metropolis.

"If he had been one there was no reason to believe that he had ceased to be. Perhaps
the somewhat epicurean temperament of the author of In Journey something has influenced this
sudden change of front, but giving up parliamentary life, the political press, government active,
to take refuge in a diplomatic retreat, when he was still young, without have reached even half
of life, full of life, aspirations, bulldozers ... blood! Mystery! The diplomatic life is, indeed, noble
sphere of action, but for a man of these conditions is like a moral suicide. Because if the diplomatic
functions allow have leisure, it is necessary to fill them and if they are not filled with literary
work, a temperament overactive danger of using them to rush to the dregs the cup of Capua, and - this
cup is fatal.

Reminds me of Mr. Cane to figure so nice and so similar to that brilliant French spirit was called
Prevost-Paradol, also was a writer who could have easily transposed the highest peaks: skills, training,
ambition, all possessed. Success smiled forever ... But the letters he left politics, and changed
the active struggle for the rest diplomat. That beautiful talent is completely sterilized.

It
reminded me of an incident really figure in the life of Prevost-Paradol.

One day a friend told him: "Why do not you write the history of parliamentary ideas? Is there
an interesting book and worth of tempting talent.
 The details
of the case will probably be never known now, though we are informed upon good authority that
the crime was the result of an old standing and romantic feud, in which love and Mormonism
bore a part. It seems that both the victims belonged, in their younger days, to the Latter
Day Saints, and Hope, the deceased prisoner, hails also from Salt Lake City. If the case has
had no other effect, it, at least, brings out in the most striking manner the efficiency of
our detective police force, and will serve as a lesson to all foreigners that they will do
wisely to settle their feuds at home, and not to carry them on to British soil. It is an open
secret that the credit of this smart capture belongs entirely to the well-known Scotland Yard
officials, Messrs. Lestrade and Gregson. 

What rules should be present? Those that have been identified above for all thinkers. Going
into details would be futile and perhaps impossible, that efforts to trace the genius a fixed
gear is no less reckless than hold the animated face expressions the petty circle of compassionate
gestures. When you see him boost his huge rush career, not words Turn then dull, sterile or
advice, and no rules have not observed; just tell him: "Image of the Deity, march to meet the targets
that you noted the Creator, do not forget your beginning and your end, you take flight and
do not know where you, raises his eyes to heaven, Just ask your Maker. He will show his will
stick to it faithfully comply are encrypted in your grandeur and glory [18]. "

CHAPTER XIX.

Understanding, heart and imagination.

§ I.

Discretion in the exercise of the powers of the soul. Queen Dido. Alejandro.

I said (Chapter XII) that to know the truth in certain matters, it
was necessary to deploy same time to different faculties of the soul,
and between them I had the feeling. Now add that while this is necessary
when dealing with those truths, the nature consists of relations with
that feeling, like everything beautiful or tender, or sad or sublime,
not when the truth belongs to a different computer that has nothing
to do with our ability to feel. The o&e are concatenated.]

[Footnote 5: "221B": the B is in small caps]

[Footnote 6: "THE LAURISTON GARDEN MYSTERY": the table-of-contents lists this chapter as "...GARDENS
MYSTERY"--plural, and probably more correct.]

[Footnote 7: "brought."": the text has an extra double-quote mark]

[Footnote 8: "individual--": illustration this page, with the caption: "As he spoke, his nimble
fingers were flying here, there, and everywhere."]

[Footnote 9: "manoeuvres": the o&e are concatenated.]

[Footnote 10: "Patent leathers": the hyphen is missing.]

[Footnote 11: "condonment": should be condonement.]

[Footnote 13: "wages.": ending quote is missing.]

[Footnote 14: "the first.": ending quote is missing.]

[Footnote 15: "make much of...": Other editions complete this sentence with an "it." 

[8] Bello, "Brochure."

[9] "Panela", without clarifying sugar, a black mass, something like our "masacote" and a of
the main food on the coast.

[10] This is the local legend: it must be confessed that naturalists are not strongly agree
with it.

[11] Schiller, William Tell, Act III, sc. III.

[12] In the 20 years
since the publication of this book, the constitution of Colombia has
been profound and often amended and bloody civil war and desolate
the country, the last stroke, the most rude and terrible has been
the separation of Panama, due both to the ridiculous policy of the
government of Colombia as a violent overbearing power of the Washington
government. 

Brought the volatile alkali, were applied to the nose, but the only signs of life that gave the
girl was a quiver of the eyelids, which did not open by the way, and mourn in silence, or thread
by thread, as stated in the graphic vulgar expression.