"Herr Moll is coming," said Lady Baldock, "and so is Signor Scrubi, and Pjinskt, who, they
say, is the greatest man living on the flageolet. Have you ever heard Pjinskt, Mr. Finn?" Phineas
never had heard Pjinskt. "And as for Herr Moll, there is nothing equal to him, this year, at
least." Lady Baldock had taken up music this season, but all her enthusiasm was unable to shake
the conscientious zeal of the young Under-Secretary of State. At such a gathering he would
have been unable to say a word in private to Violet Effingham.

CHAPTER LX

Madame Goesler's Politics

It may be remembered that when Lady Glencora Palliser was shown into Madame Goesler's room,
Madame Goesler had just explained somewhat forcibly to the Duke of Omnium her reasons for refusing
the loan of his Grace's villa at Como. She had told the Duke in so many words that she did
not mean to give the world an opportunity of maligning her, and it would then have been left
to the Duke to decide whether any other arrangements might have been made for taking Madame
Goesler to Como, had he not been interrupted. That he was very anxious to take her was certain.
The green brougham had already been often enough at the door in Park Lane to make his Grace
feel that Madame Goesler's company was very desirable,--was, perhaps, of all things left for
his enjoyment, the one thing the most desirable. Lady Glencora had spoken to her husband of
children crying for the top brick of the chimney. Now it had come to this, that in the eyes
of the Duke of Omnium Marie Max Goesler was the top brick of the chimney. She had more wit
for him than other women,--more of that sort of wit which he was capable of enjoying. She had
a beauty which he had learned to think more alluring than other beauty. He was sick of fair
faces, and fat arms, and free necks. Madame Goesler's eyes sparkled as other eyes did not sparkle,
and there was something of the vagueness of mystery in the very blackness and gloss and abundance
of her hair,--as though her beauty was the beauty of some world which he had not yet known.
And there was a quickness and yet a grace of motion about her which was quite new to him. The
ladies upon whom the Duke had of late most often smiled had been somewhat slow,--perhaps almost
heavy,--though, no doubt, graceful withal. In his early youth he remembered to have seen, somewhere
in Greece, such a houri as was this Madame Goesler. The houri in that case had run off with
the captain of a Russian vessel engaged in the tallow trade; but not the less was there left
on his Grace's mind some dreamy memory of charms which had impressed him very strongly when
he was simply a young Mr. Palliser, and had had at his command not so convenient a mode of
sudden abduction as the Russian captain's tallow ship. Pressed hard by such circumstances as
these, there is no knowing how the Duke might have got out of his difficulties had not Lady
Glencora appeared upon the scene.

Since the future little Lord Silverbridge had been born, the Duke had been very constant in
his worship of Lady Glencora, and as, from year to year, a little brother was added, thus making
the family very strong and stable, his acts of worship had increased; but with his worship
there had come of late something almost of dread,--something almost of obedience, which had
made those who were immediately about the Duke declare that his Grace was a good deal changed.
For, hitherto, whatever may have been the Duke's weaknesses, he certainly had known no master.
His heir, Plantagenet Palliser, had been always subject to him. His other relations had been
kept at such a distance as hardly to be more than recognised; and though his Grace no doubt
had had his intimacies, they who had been intimate with him had either never tried to obtain
ascendancy, or had failed. Lady Glencora, whether with or without a struggle, had succeeded,
and people about the Duke said that the Duke was much changed. Mr. Fothergill,--who was his
Grace's man of business, and who was not a favourite with Lady Glencora,--said that he was
very much changed indeed. Finding his Grace so much changed, Mr. Fothergill had made a little
attempt at dictation himself, but had receded with fingers very much scorched in the attempt.
It was indeed possible that the Duke was becoming in the slightest degree weary of Lady Glencora's
thraldom, and that he thought that Madame Max Goesler might be more tender with him. Madame
Max Goesler, however, intended to be tender only on one condition.

When Lady Glencora entered the room, Madame Goesler received her beautifully. "How lucky that
you should have come just when his Grace is here!" she said.

"I saw my uncle's carriage, and of course I knew it," said Lady Glencora.

"Then the favour is to him," said Madame Goesler, smiling.

"No, indeed; I was coming. If my word is to be doubted in that point, I must insist on having
the servant up; I must, certainly. I told him to drive to this door, as far back as Grosvenor
Street. Did I not, Planty?" Planty was the little Lord Silverbridge as was to be, if nothing
unfortunate intervened, who was now sitting on his granduncle's knee.

"Dou said to the little house in Park Lane," said the boy.

"Yes,--because I forgot the number."

"And it is the smallest house in Park Lane, so the evidence is complete," said Madame Goesler.
Lady Glencora had not cared much for evidence to convince Madame Goesler, but she had not wished
her uncle to think that he was watched and hunted down. It might be necessary that he should
know that he was watched, but things had not come to that as yet.

"How is Plantagenet?" asked the Duke.

"Answer for papa," said Lady Glencora to her child.

"Papa is very well, but he almost never comes home."

"He is working for his country," said the Duke. "Your papa is a busy, useful man, and can't
afford time to play with a little boy as I can."

"But papa is not a duke."

"He will be some day, and that probably before long, my boy. He will be a duke quite as soon
as he wants to be a duke. He likes the House of Commons better than the strawberry leaves,
I fancy. There is not a man in England less in a hurry than he is."

"No, indeed," said Lady Glencora.

"How nice that is," said Madame Goesler.

"And I ain't in a hurry either,--am I, mamma?" said the little future Lord Silverbridge.

"You are a wicked little monkey," said his grand-uncle, kissing him. At this moment Lady Glencora
was, no doubt, thinking how necessary it was that she should be careful to see that things
did turn out in the manner proposed,--so that people who had waited should not be disappointed;
and the Duke was perhaps thinking that he was not absolutely bound to his nephew by any law
of God or man; and Madame Max Goesler,--I wonder whether her thoughts were injurious to the
prospects of that handsome bold-faced little boy.

Lady Glencora rose to take her leave first. It was not for her to show any anxiety to force
the Duke out of the lady's presence. If the Duke were resolved to make a fool of himself, nothing
that she could do would prevent it. But she thought that this little inspection might possibly
be of service, and that her uncle's ardour would be cooled by the interruption to which he
had been subjected. So she went, and immediately afterwards the Duke followed her. The interruption
had, at any rate, saved him on that occasion from making the highest bid for the pleasure of
Madame Goesler's company at Como. The Duke went down with the little boy in his hand, so that
there was not an opportunity for a single word of interest between the gentleman and the lady.

Madame Goesler, when she was alone, seated herself on her sofa, tucking her feet up under her
as though she were seated somewhere in the East, pushed her ringlets back roughly from her
face, and then placed her two hands to her sides so that her thumbs rested lightly on her girdle.
When alone with something weighty on her mind she would sit in this form for the hour together,
resolving, or trying to resolve, what should be her conduct. She did few things without much
thinking, and though she walked very boldly, she walked warily. She often told herself that
such success as she had achieved could not have been achieved without much caution. And yet
she was ever discontented with herself, telling herself that all that she had done was nothing,
or worse than nothing. What was it all, to have a duke and to have lords dining with her, to
dine with lords or with a duke itself, if life were dull with her, and the hours hung heavy!
Life with her was dull, and the hours did hang heavy. And what if she caught this old man,
and became herself a duchess,--caught him by means of his weakness, to the inexpressible dismay
of all those who were bound to him by ties of blood,--would that make her life happier, or
her hours less tedious? That prospect of a life on the Italian lakes with an old man tied to
her side was not so charming in her eyes as it was in those of the Duke. Were she to succeed,
and to be blazoned forth to the world as Duchess of Omnium, what would she have gained?

She perfectly understood the motive of Lady Glencora's visit, and thought that she would at
any rate gain something in the very triumph of baffling the manoeuvres of so clever a woman.
Let Lady Glencora throw her ægis before the Duke, and it would be something to carry off his
Grace from beneath the protection of so thick a shield. The very flavour of the contest was
pleasing to Madame Goesler. But, the victory gained, what then would remain to her? Money she
had already; position, too, she had of her own. She was free as air, and should it suit her
at any time to go off to some lake of Como in society that would personally be more agreeable
to her than that of the Duke of Omnium, there was nothing to hinder her for a moment. And then
came a smile over her face,--but the saddest smile,--as she thought of one with whom it might
be pleasant to look at the colour of Italian skies and feel the softness of Italian breezes.
In feigning to like to do this with an old man, in acting the raptures of love on behalf of
a worn-out duke who at the best would scarce believe in her acting, there would not be much
delight for her. She had never yet known what it was to have anything of the pleasure of love.
She had grown, as she often told herself, to be a hard, cautious, selfish, successful woman,
without any interference or assistance from such pleasure. Might there not be yet time left
for her to try it without selfishness,--with an absolute devotion of self,--if only she could
find the right companion? There was one who might be such a companion, but the Duke of Omnium
certainly could not be such a one.

But to be Duchess of Omnium! After all, success in this world is everything;--is at any rate
the only thing the pleasure of which will endure. There was the name of many a woman written
in a black list within Madame Goesler's breast,--written there because of scorn, because of
rejected overtures, because of deep social injury; and Madame Goesler told herself often that
it would be a pleasure to her to use the list, and to be revenged on those who had ill-used
and scornfully treated her. She did not readily forgive those who had injured her. As Duchess
of Omnium she thought that probably she might use that list with efficacy. Lady Glencora had
treated her well, and she had no such feeling against Lady Glencora. As Duchess of Omnium she
would accept Lady Glencora as her dearest friend, if Lady Glencora would admit it. But if it
should be necessary that there should be a little duel between them, as to which of them should
take the Duke in hand, the duel must of course be fought. In a matter so important, one woman
would of course expect no false sentiment from another. She and Lady Glencora would understand
each other;--and no doubt, respect each other.

I have said that she would sit there resolving, or trying to resolve. There is nothing in the
world so difficult as that task of making up one's mind. Who is there that has not longed that
the power and privilege of selection among alternatives should be taken away from him in some
important crisis of his life, and that his conduct should be arranged for him, either this
way or that, by some divine power if it were possible,--by some patriarchal power in the absence
of divinity,--or by chance even, if nothing better than chance could be found to do it? But
no one dares to cast the die, and to go honestly by the hazard. There must be the actual necessity
of obeying the die, before even the die can be of any use. As it was, when Madame Goesler had
sat there for an hour, till her legs were tired beneath her, she had not resolved. It must
be as her impulse should direct her when the important moment came. There was not a soul on
earth to whom she could go for counsel, and when she asked herself for counsel, the counsel
would not come.

Two days afterwards the Duke called again. He would come generally on a Thursday,--early, so
that he might be there before other visitors; and he had already quite learned that when he
was there other visitors would probably be refused admittance. How Lady Glencora had made her
way in, telling the servant that her uncle was there, he had not understood. That visit had
been made on the Thursday, but now he came on the Saturday,--having, I regret to say, sent
down some early fruit from his own hot-houses,--or from Covent Garden,--with a little note
on the previous day. The grapes might have been pretty well, but the note was injudicious.
There were three lines about the grapes, as to which there was some special history, the vine
having been brought from the garden of some villa in which some ill-used queen had lived and
died; and then there was a postscript in one line to say that the Duke would call on the following
morning. I do not think that he had meant to add this when he began his note; but then children,
who want the top brick, want it so badly, and cry for it so perversely!

Of course Madame Goesler was at home. But even then she had not made up her mind. She had made
up her mind only to this,--that he should be made to speak plainly, and that she would take
time for her reply. Not even with such a gem as the Duke's coronet before her eyes, would she
jump at it. Where there was so much doubt, there need at least be no impatience.

"You ran away the other day, Duke, because you could not resist the charm of that little boy,"
she said, laughing.

"He is a dear little boy,--but it was not that," he answered.

"Then what was it? Your niece carried you off in a whirl-wind. She was come and gone, taking
you with her, in half a minute."

"She had disturbed me when I was thinking of something," said the Duke.

"Things shouldn't be thought of,--not so deeply as that." Madame Goesler was playing with a
bunch of his grapes now, eating one or two from a small china plate which had stood upon the
table, and he thought that he had never seen a woman so graceful and yet so natural. "Will
you not eat your own grapes with me? They are delicious;--flavoured with the poor queen's sorrows."
He shook his head, knowing that it did not suit his gastric juices to have to deal with fruit
eaten at odd times. "Never think, Duke. I am convinced that it does no good. It simply means
doubting, and doubt always leads to error. The safest way in the world is to do nothing."

"I believe so," said the Duke.

"Much the safest. But if you have not sufficient command over yourself to enable you to sit
in repose, always quiet, never committing yourself to the chance of any danger,--then take
a leap in the dark; or rather many leaps. A stumbling horse regains his footing by persevering
in his onward course. As for moving cautiously, that I detest."

"And yet one must think;--for instance, whether one will succeed or not."

"Take that for granted always. Remember, I do not recommend motion at all. Repose is my idea
of life;--repose and grapes."

The Duke sat for a while silent, taking his repose as far as the outer man was concerned, looking
at his top brick of the chimney, as from time to time she ate one of his grapes. Probably she
did not eat above half-a-dozen of them altogether, but he thought that the grapes must have
been made for the woman, she was so pretty in the eating of them. But it was necessary that
he should speak at last. "Have you been thinking of coming to Como?" he said.

"I told you that I never think."

"But I want an answer to my proposition."

"I thought I had answered your Grace on that question." Then she put down the grapes, and moved
herself on her chair, so that she sat with her face turned away from him.

"But a request to a lady may be made twice."

"Oh, yes. And I am grateful, knowing how far it is from your intention to do me any harm. And
I am somewhat ashamed of my warmth on the other day. But still there can be but one answer.
There are delights which a woman must deny herself, let them be ever so delightful."

"I had thought,--" the Duke began, and then he stopped himself.

"Your Grace was saying that you thought,--"

"Marie, a man at my age does not like to be denied."

"What man likes to be denied anything by a woman at any age? A woman who denies anything is
called cruel at once,--even though it be her very soul." She had turned round upon him now,
and was leaning forward towards him from her chair, so that he could touch her if he put out
his hand.

He put out his hand and touched her. "Marie," he said, "will you deny me if I ask?"

"Nay, my lord; how shall I say? There is many a trifle I would deny you. There is many a great
gift I would give you willingly."

"But the greatest gift of all?"

"My lord, if you have anything to say, you must say it plainly. There never was a woman worse
than I am at the reading of riddles."

"Could you endure to live in the quietude of an Italian lake with an old man?" Now he touched
her again, and had taken her hand.

"No, my lord;--nor with a young one,--for all my days. But I do not know that age would guide me."

Then the Duke rose and made his proposition in form. "Marie, you know that I love you. Why
it is that I at my age should feel so sore a love, I cannot say."

"So sore a love!"

"So sore, if it be not gratified. Marie, I ask you to be my wife."

"Duke of Omnium, this from you!"

"Yes, from me. My coronet is at your feet. If you will allow me to raise it, I will place it
on your brow."

Then she went away from him, and seated herself at a distance. After a moment or two he followed
her, and stood with his arm upon her shoulder. "You will give me an answer, Marie?"

"You cannot have thought of this, my lord."

"Nay; I have thought of it much."

"And your friends?"

"My dear, I may venture to please myself in this,--as in everything. Will you not answer me?"

"Certainly not on the spur of the moment, my lord. Think how high is the position you offer
me, and how immense is the change you propose to me. Allow me two days, and I will answer you
by letter. I am so fluttered now that I must leave you." Then he came to her, took her hand,
kissed her brow, and opened the door for her.

CHAPTER LXI

Another Duel

It happened that there were at this time certain matters of business to be settled between
the Duke of Omnium and his nephew Mr. Palliser, respecting which the latter called upon his
uncle on the morning after the Duke had committed himself by his offer. Mr. Palliser had come
by appointment made with Mr. Fothergill, the Duke's man of business, and had expected to meet
Mr. Fothergill. Mr. Fothergill, however, was not with the Duke, and the uncle told the nephew
that the business had been postponed. Then Mr. Palliser asked some question as to the reason
of such postponement, not meaning much by his question,--and the Duke, after a moment's hesitation,
answered him, meaning very much by his answer. "The truth is, Plantagenet, that it is possible
that I may marry, and if so this arrangement would not suit me."

"Are you going to be married?" asked the astonished nephew.

"It is not exactly that,--but it is possible that I may do so. Since I proposed this matter
to Fothergill, I have been thinking over it, and I have changed my mind. It will make but little
difference to you; and after all you are a far richer man than I am."

"I am not thinking of money, Duke," said Plantagenet Palliser.

"Of what then were you thinking?"

"Simply of what you told me. I do not in the least mean to interfere."

"I hope not, Plantagenet."

"But I could not hear such a statement from you without some surprise. Whatever you do I hope
will tend to make you happy."

So much passed between the uncle and the nephew, and what the uncle told to the nephew, the
nephew of course told to his wife. "He was with her again, yesterday," said Lady Glencora,
"for more than an hour. And he had been half the morning dressing himself before he went to her."

"He is not engaged to her, or he would have told me," said Plantagenet Palliser.

"I think he would, but there is no knowing. At the present moment I have only one doubt,--whether
to act upon him or upon her."

"I do not see that you can do good by going to either."

"Well, we will see. If she be the woman I take her to be, I think I could do something with
her. I have never supposed her to be a bad woman,--never. I will think of it." Then Lady Glencora
left her husband, and did not consult him afterwards as to the course she would pursue. He
had his budget to manage, and his speeches to make. The little affair of the Duke and Madame
Goesler, she thought it best to take into her own hands without any assistance from him. "What
a fool I was," she said to herself, "to have her down there when the Duke was at Matching!"

Madame Goesler, when she was left alone, felt that now indeed she must make up her mind. She
had asked for two days. The intervening day was a Sunday, and on the Monday she must send her
answer. She might doubt at any rate for this one night,--the Saturday night,--and sit playing,
as it were, with the coronet of a duchess in her lap. She had been born the daughter of a small
country attorney, and now a duke had asked her to be his wife,--and a duke who was acknowledged
to stand above other dukes! Nothing at any rate could rob her of that satisfaction. Whatever
resolution she might form at last, she had by her own resources reached a point of success
in remembering which there would always be a keen gratification. It would be much to be Duchess
of Omnium; but it would be something also to have refused to be a Duchess of Omnium. During
that evening, that night, and the next morning, she remained playing with the coronet in her
lap. She would not go to church. What good could any sermon do her while that bauble was dangling
before her eyes? After church-time, about two o'clock, Phineas Finn came to her. Just at this
period Phineas would come to her often;--sometimes full of a new decision to forget Violet
Effingham altogether, at others minded to continue his siege let the hope of success be ever
so small. He had now heard that Violet and Lord Chiltern had in truth quarrelled, and was of
course anxious to be advised to continue the siege. When he first came in and spoke a word
or two, in which there was no reference to Violet Effingham, there came upon Madame Goesler
a strong wish to decide at once that she would play no longer with the coronet, that the gem
was not worth the cost she would be called upon to pay for it. There was something in the world
better for her than the coronet,--if only it might be had. But within ten minutes he had told
her the whole tale about Lord Chiltern, and how he had seen Violet at Lady Baldock's,--and
how there might yet be hope for him. What would she advise him to do? "Go home, Mr. Finn,"
she said, "and write a sonnet to her eyebrow. See if that will have any effect."

"Ah, well! It is natural that you should laugh at me; but somehow, I did not expect it from you."

"Do not be angry with me. What I mean is that such little things seem to influence this Violet
of yours."

"Do they? I have not found that they do so."

"If she had loved Lord Chiltern she would not have quarrelled with him for a few words. If
she had loved you, she would not have accepted Lord Chiltern. If she loves neither of you,
she should say so. I am losing my respect for her."

"Do not say that, Madame Goesler. I respect her as strongly as I love her." Then Madame Goesler
almost made up her mind that she would have the coronet. There was a substance about the coronet
that would not elude her grasp.

Late that afternoon, while she was still hesitating, there came another caller to the cottage
in Park Lane. She was still hesitating, feeling that she had as yet another night before her.
Should she be Duchess of Omnium or not? All that she wished to be, she could not be;--but to
be Duchess of Omnium was within her reach. Then she began to ask herself various questions.
Would the Queen refuse to accept her in her new rank? Refuse! How could any Queen refuse to
accept her? She had not done aught amiss in life. There was no slur on her name; no stain on
her character. What though her father had been a small attorney, and her first husband a Jew
banker! She had broken no law of God or man, had been accused of breaking no law, which breaking
or which accusation need stand in the way of her being as good a duchess as any other woman!
She was sitting thinking of this, almost angry with herself at the awe with which the proposed
rank inspired her, when Lady Glencora was announced to her.

"Madame Goesler," said Lady Glencora, "I am very glad to find you."

"And I more than equally so, to be found," said Madame Goesler, smiling with all her grace.

"My uncle has been with you since I saw you last?"

"Oh yes;--more than once if I remember right. He was here yesterday at any rate."

"He comes often to you then?"

"Not so often as I would wish, Lady Glencora. The Duke is one of my dearest friends."

"It has been a quick friendship."

"Yes;--a quick friendship," said Madame Goesler. Then there was a pause for some moments which
Madame Goesler was determined that she would not break. It was clear to her now on what ground
Lady Glencora had come to her, and she was fully minded that if she could bear the full light
of the god himself in all his glory, she would not allow herself to be scorched by any reflected
heat coming from the god's niece. She thought she could endure anything that Lady Glencora
might say; but she would wait and hear what might be said.

"I think, Madame Goesler, that I had better hurry on to my subject at once," said Lady Glencora,
almost hesitating as she spoke, and feeling that the colour was rushing up to her cheeks and
covering her brow. "Of course what I have to say will be disagreeable. Of course I shall offend
you. And yet I do not mean it."

"I shall be offended at nothing, Lady Glencora, unless I think that you mean to offend me."

"I protest that I do not. You have seen my little boy."

"Yes, indeed. The sweetest child! God never gave me anything half so precious as that."

"He is the Duke's heir."

"So I understand."

"For myself, by my honour as a woman, I care nothing. I am rich and have all that the world
can give me. For my husband, in this matter, I care nothing. His career he will make for himself,
and it will depend on no title."

"Why all this to me, Lady Glencora? What have I to do with your husband's titles?"

"Much;--if it be true that there is an idea of marriage between you and the Duke of Omnium."

"Psha!" said Madame Goesler, with all the scorn of which she was mistress.

"It is untrue, then?" asked Lady Glencora.

"No;--it is not untrue. There is an idea of such a marriage."

"And you are engaged to him?"

"No;--I am not engaged to him."

"Has he asked you?"

"Lady Glencora, I really must say that such a cross-questioning from one lady to another is
very unusual. I have promised not to be offended, unless I thought that you wished to offend
me. But do not drive me too far."

"Madame Goesler, if you will tell me that I am mistaken, I will beg your pardon, and offer
to you the most sincere friendship which one woman can give another."

"Lady Glencora, I can tell you nothing of the kind."

"Then it is to be so! And have you thought what you would gain?"

"I have thought much of what I should gain:--and something also of what I should lose."

"You have money."

"Yes, indeed; plenty,--for wants so moderate as mine."

"And position."

"Well, yes; a sort of position. Not such as yours, Lady Glencora. That, if it be not born to
a woman, can only come to her from a husband. She cannot win it for herself."

"You are free as air, going where you like, and doing what you like."

"Too free, sometimes," said Madame Goesler.

"And what will you gain by changing all this simply for a title?"

"But for such a title, Lady Glencora! It may be little to you to be Duchess of Omnium, but
think what it must be to me!"

"And for this you will not hesitate to rob him of all his friends, to embitter his future life,
to degrade him among his peers,--"

"Degrade him! Who dares say that I shall degrade him? He will exalt me, but I shall no whit
degrade him. You forget yourself, Lady Glencora."

"Ask any one. It is not that I despise you. If I did, would I offer you my hand in friendship?
But an old man, over seventy, carrying the weight and burden of such rank as his, will degrade
himself in the eyes of his fellows, if he marries a young woman without rank, let her be ever
so clever, ever so beautiful. A Duke of Omnium may not do as he pleases, as may another man."

"It may be well, Lady Glencora, for other dukes, and for the daughters and heirs and cousins
of other dukes, that his Grace should try that question. I will, if you wish it, argue this
matter with you on many points, but I will not allow you to say that I should degrade any man
whom I might marry. My name is as unstained as your own."

"I meant nothing of that," said Lady Glencora.

"For him;--I certainly would not willingly injure him. Who wishes to injure a friend? And,
in truth, I have so little to gain, that the temptation to do him an injury, if I thought it
one, is not strong. For your little boy, Lady Glencora, I think your fears are premature."
As she said this, there came a smile over her face, which threatened to break from control
and almost become laughter. "But, if you will allow me to say so, my mind will not be turned
against this marriage half so strongly by any arguments you can use as by those which I can
adduce myself. You have nearly driven me into it by telling me I should degrade his house.
It is almost incumbent on me to prove that you are wrong. But you had better leave me to settle
the matter in my own bosom. You had indeed."

After a while Lady Glencora did leave her,--to settle the matter within her own bosom,--having
no other alternative.

CHAPTER LXII

The Letter That Was Sent to Brighton

Monday morning came and Madame Goesler had as yet written no answer to the Duke of Omnium.
Had not Lady Glencora gone to Park Lane on the Sunday afternoon, I think the letter would have
been written on that day; but, whatever may have been the effect of Lady Glencora's visit,
it so far disturbed Madame Goesler as to keep her from her writing-table. There was yet another
night for thought, and then the letter should be written on the Monday morning.

When Lady Glencora left Madame Goesler she went at once to the Duke's house. It was her custom
to see her husband's uncle on a Sunday, and she would most frequently find him just at this
hour,--before he went up-stairs to dress for dinner. She usually took her boy with her, but
on this occasion she went alone. She had tried what she could do with Madame Goesler, and she
found that she had failed. She must now make her attempt upon the Duke. But the Duke, perhaps
anticipating some attack of the kind, had fled. "Where is his Grace, Barker?" said Lady Glencora
to the porter. "We do not know, your ladyship. His Grace went away yesterday evening with nobody
but Lapoule." Lapoule was the Duke's French valet. Lady Glencora could only return home and
consider in her own mind what batteries might yet be brought to bear upon the Duke, towards
stopping the marriage, even after the engagement should have been made,--if it were to be made.
Lady Glencora felt that such batteries might still be brought up as would not improbably have
an effect on a proud, weak old man. If all other resources failed, royalty in some of its branches
might be induced to make a request, and every august relation in the peerage should interfere.
The Duke no doubt might persevere and marry whom he pleased,--if he were strong enough. But
it requires much personal strength,--that standing alone against the well-armed batteries of
all one's friends. Lady Glencora had once tried such a battle on her own behalf, and had failed.
She had wished to be imprudent when she was young; but her friends had been too strong for
her. She had been reduced, and kept in order, and made to run in a groove,--and was now, when
she sat looking at her little boy with his bold face, almost inclined to think that the world
was right, and that grooves were best. But if she had been controlled when she was young, so
ought the Duke to be controlled now that he was old. It is all very well for a man or woman
to boast that he,--or she,--may do what he likes with his own,--or with her own. But there
are circumstances in which such self-action is ruinous to so many that coercion from the outside
becomes absolutely needed. Nobody had felt the injustice of such coercion when applied to herself
more sharply than had Lady Glencora. But she had lived to acknowledge that such coercion might
be proper, and was now prepared to use it in any shape in which it might be made available.
It was all very well for Madame Goesler to laugh and exclaim, "Psha!" when Lady Glencora declared
her real trouble. But should it ever come to pass that a black-browed baby with a yellow skin
should be shown to the world as Lord Silverbridge, Lady Glencora knew that her peace of mind
would be gone for ever. She had begun the world desiring one thing, and had missed it. She
had suffered much, and had then reconciled herself to other hopes. If those other hopes were
also to be cut away from her, the world would not be worth a pinch of snuff to her. The Duke
had fled, and she could do nothing to-day; but to-morrow she would begin with her batteries.
And she herself had done the mischief! She had invited this woman down to Matching! Heaven
and earth!--that such a man as the Duke should be such a fool!--The widow of a Jew banker!
He, the Duke of Omnium,--and thus to cut away from himself, for the rest of his life, all honour,
all peace of mind, all the grace of a noble end to a career which, if not very noble in itself,
had received the praise of nobility! And to do this for a thin, black-browed, yellow-visaged
woman with ringlets and devil's eyes, and a beard on her upper lip,--a Jewess,--a creature
of whose habits of life and manners of thought they all were absolutely ignorant; who drank,
possibly; who might have been a forger, for what any one knew; an adventuress who had found
her way into society by her art and perseverance,--and who did not even pretend to have a relation
in the world! That such a one should have influence enough to intrude herself into the house
of Omnium, and blot the scutcheon, and,-- what was worst of all,--perhaps be the mother of
future dukes! Lady Glencora, in her anger, was very unjust to Madame Goesler, thinking all
evil of her, accusing her in her mind of every crime, denying her all charm, all beauty. Had
the Duke forgotten himself and his position for the sake of some fair girl with a pink complexion
and grey eyes, and smooth hair, and a father, Lady Glencora thought that she would have forgiven
it better. It might be that Madame Goesler would win her way to the coronet; but when she came
to put it on, she should find that there were sharp thorns inside the lining of it. Not a woman
worth the knowing in all London should speak to her;--nor a man either of those men with whom
a Duchess of Omnium would wish to hold converse. She should find her husband rated as a doting
fool, and herself rated as a scheming female adventuress. And it should go hard with Lady Glencora,
if the Duke were not separated from his new Duchess before the end of the first year! In her
anger Lady Glencora was very unjust.

The Duke, when he left his house without telling his household whither he was going, did send
his address to,--the top brick of the chimney. His note, which was delivered at Madame Goesler's
house late on the Sunday evening, was as follows:--"I am to have your answer on Monday. I shall
be at Brighton. Send it by a private messenger to the Bedford Hotel there. I need not tell
you with what expectation, with what hope, with what fear I shall await it.--O." Poor old man!
He had run through all the pleasures of life too quickly, and had not much left with which
to amuse himself. At length he had set his eyes on a top brick, and being tired of everything
else, wanted it very sorely. Poor old man! How should it do him any good, even if he got it?
Madame Goesler, when she received the note, sat with it in her hand, thinking of his great
want. "And he would be tired of his new plaything after a month," she said to herself. But
she had given herself to the next morning, and she would not make up her mind that night. She
would sleep once more with the coronet of a duchess within her reach. She did do so; and woke
in the morning with her mind absolutely in doubt. When she walked down to breakfast, all doubt
was at an end. The time had come when it was necessary that she should resolve, and while her
maid was brushing her hair for her she did make her resolution.

"What a thing it is to be a great lady," said the maid, who may probably have reflected that
the Duke of Omnium did not come here so often for nothing.

"What do you mean by that, Lotta?"

"The women I know, madame, talk so much of their countesses, and ladyships, and duchesses.
I would never rest till I had a title in this country, if I were a lady,--and rich and beautiful."

"And can the countesses, and the ladyships, and the duchesses do as they please?"

"Ah, madame;--I know not that."

"But I know. That will do, Lotta. Now leave me." Then Madame Goesler had made up her mind;
but I do not know whether that doubt as to having her own way had much to do with it. As the
wife of an old man she would probably have had much of her own way. Immediately after breakfast
she wrote her answer to the Duke, which was as follows:--

   Park Lane, Monday.

   MY DEAR DUKE OF OMNIUM,

   I find so great a difficulty in expressing myself to your
   Grace in a written letter, that since you left me I have
   never ceased to wish that I had been less nervous, less
   doubting, and less foolish when you were present with me
   here in my room. I might then have said in one word what
   will take so many awkward words to explain.

   Great as is the honour you propose to confer on me, rich
   as is the gift you offer me, I cannot accept it. I cannot
   be your Grace's wife. I may almost say that I knew it
   was so when you parted from me; but the surprise of the
   situation took away from me a part of my judgment, and
   made me unable to answer you as I should have done. My
   lord, the truth is, that I am not fit to be the wife of
   the Duke of Omnium. I should injure you; and though I
   should raise myself in name, I should injure myself in
   character. But you must not think, because I say this,
   that there is any reason why I should not be an honest
   man's wife. There is none. I have nothing on my conscience
   which I could not tell you,--or to another man; nothing
   that I need fear to tell to all the world. Indeed, my
   lord, there is nothing to tell but this,--that I am not
   fitted by birth and position to be the wife of the Duke of
   Omnium. You would have to blush for me, and that no man
   shall ever have to do on my account.

   I will own that I have been ambitious, too ambitious, and
   have been pleased to think that one so exalted as you are,
   one whose high position is so rife in the eyes of all men,
   should have taken pleasure in my company. I will confess
   to a foolish woman's silly vanity in having wished to be
   known to be the friend of the Duke of Omnium. I am like
   the other moths that flutter near the light and have their
   wings burned. But I am wiser than they in this, that
   having been scorched, I know that I must keep my distance.
   You will easily believe that a woman, such as I am, does
   not refuse to ride in a carriage with your Grace's arms on
   the panels without a regret. I am no philosopher. I do not
   pretend to despise the rich things of the world, or the
   high things. According to my way of thinking a woman ought
   to wish to be Duchess of Omnium;--but she ought to wish
   also to be able to carry her coronet with a proper grace.
   As Madame Goesler I can live, even among my superiors, at
   my ease. As your Grace's wife, I should be easy no longer;
   --nor would your Grace.

   You will think perhaps that what I write is heartless,
   that I speak altogether of your rank, and not at all of
   the affection you have shown me, or of that which I might
   possibly bear towards you. I think that when the first
   flush of passion is over in early youth men and women
   should strive to regulate their love, as they do their
   other desires, by their reason. I could love your Grace,
   fondly, as your wife, if I thought it well for your Grace
   or for myself that we should be man and wife. As I think
   it would be ill for both of us, I will restrain that
   feeling, and remember your Grace ever with the purest
   feeling of true friendship.

   Before I close this letter, I must utter a word of
   gratitude. In the kind of life which I have led as a
   widow, a life which has been very isolated as regards
   true fellowship, it has been my greatest effort to obtain
   the good opinion of those among whom I have attempted to
   make my way. I may, perhaps, own to you now that I have
   had many difficulties. A woman who is alone in the world
   is ever regarded with suspicion. In this country a woman
   with a foreign name, with means derived from foreign
   sources, with a foreign history, is specially suspected.
   I have striven to live that down, and I have succeeded.
   But in my wildest dreams I never dreamed of such success
   as this,--that the Duke of Omnium should think me the
   worthiest of the worthy. You may be sure that I am not
   ungrateful,--that I never will be ungrateful. And I trust
   it will not derogate from your opinion of my worth, that
   I have known what was due to your Grace's highness.

   I have the honour to be,
   My Lord Duke,
   Your most obliged and faithful servant,

   MARIE MAX GOESLER.

"How many unmarried women in England are there would do the same?" she said to herself, as
she folded the paper, and put it into an envelope, and sealed the cover. The moment that the
letter was completed she sent it off, as she was directed to send it, so that there might be
no possibility of repentance and subsequent hesitation. She had at last made up her mind, and
she would stand by the making. She knew that there would come moments in which she would deeply
regret the opportunity that she had lost,--the chance of greatness that she had flung away
from her. But so would she have often regretted it, also, had she accepted the greatness. Her
position was one in which there must be regret, let her decision have been what it might. But
she had decided, and the thing was done. She would still be free,--Marie Max Goesler,--unless
in abandoning her freedom she would obtain something that she might in truth prefer to it.
When the letter was gone she sat disconsolate, at the window of an up-stairs room in which
she had written, thinking much of the coronet, much of the name, much of the rank, much of
that position in society which she had flattered herself she might have won for herself as
Duchess of Omnium by her beauty, her grace, and her wit. It had not been simply her ambition
to be a duchess, without further aim or object. She had fancied that she might have been such
a duchess as there is never another, so that her fame might have been great throughout Europe,
as a woman charming at all points. And she would have had friends, then,--real friends, and
would not have lived alone as it was now her fate to do. And she would have loved her ducal
husband, old though he was, and stiff with pomp and ceremony. She would have loved him, and
done her best to add something of brightness to his life. It was indeed true that there was
one whom she loved better; but of what avail was it to love a man who, when he came to her,
would speak to her of nothing but of the charms which he found in another woman!

She had been sitting thus at her window, with a book in her hand, at which she never looked,
gazing over the park which was now beautiful with its May verdure, when on a sudden a thought
struck her. Lady Glencora Palliser had come to her, trying to enlist her sympathy for the little
heir, behaving, indeed, not very well, as Madame Goesler had thought, but still with an earnest
purpose which was in itself good. She would write to Lady Glencora and put her out of her misery.
Perhaps there was some feeling of triumph in her mind as she returned to the desk from which
her epistle had been sent to the Duke;--not of that triumph which would have found its gratification
in boasting of the offer that had been made to her, but arising from a feeling that she could
now show the proud mother of the bold-faced boy that though she would not pledge herself to
any woman as to what she might do or not do, she was nevertheless capable of resisting such
a temptation as would have been irresistible to many. Of the Duke's offer to her she would
have spoken to no human being, had not this woman shown that the Duke's purpose was known at
least to her, and now, in her letter, she would write no plain word of that offer. She would
not state, in words intelligible to any one who might read, that the Duke had offered her his
hand and his coronet. But she would write so that Lady Glencora should understand her. And
she would be careful that there should be no word in the letter to make Lady Glencora think
that she supposed herself to be unfit for the rank offered to her. She had been very humble
in what she had written to the Duke, but she would not be at all humble in what she was about
to write to the mother of the bold-faced boy. And this was the letter when it was written:--

   MY DEAR LADY GLENCORA,

   I venture to send you a line to put you out of your
   misery;--for you were very miserable when you were so good
   as to come here yesterday. Your dear little boy is safe
   from me;--and, what is more to the purpose, so are you and
   your husband,--and your uncle, whom, in truth, I love. You
   asked me a downright question which I did not then choose
   to answer by a downright answer. The downright answer was
   not at that time due to you. It has since been given, and
   as I like you too well to wish you to be in torment, I
   send you a line to say that I shall never be in the way of
   you or your boy.

   And now, dear Lady Glencora, one word more. Should it
   ever again appear to you to be necessary to use your zeal
   for the protection of your husband or your child, do not
   endeavour to dissuade a woman by trying to make her think
   that she, by her alliance, would bring degradation into
   any house, or to any man. If there could have been an
   argument powerful with me, to make me do that which you
   wished to prevent, it was the argument which you used. But
   my own comfort, and the happiness of another person whom
   I value almost as much as myself, were too important to
   be sacrificed even to a woman's revenge. I take mine by
   writing to you and telling you that I am better and more
   rational and wiser than you took me to be.

   If, after this, you choose to be on good terms with me, I
   shall be happy to be your friend. I shall want no further
   revenge. You owe me some little apology; but whether you
   make it or not, I will be contented, and will never do
   more than ask whether your darling's prospects are still
   safe. There are more women than one in the world, you
   know, and you must not consider yourself to be out of the
   wood because you have escaped from a single danger. If
   there arise another, come to me, and we will consult
   together.

   Dear Lady Glencora, yours always sincerely,

   MARIE M. G.

There was a thing or two besides which she longed to say, laughing as she thought of them.
But she refrained, and her letter, when finished, was as it is given above.

On the day following, Lady Glencora was again in Park Lane. When she first read Madame Goesler's
letter, she felt herself to be annoyed and angry, but her anger was with herself rather than
with her correspondent. Ever since her last interview with the woman whom she had feared, she
had been conscious of having been indiscreet. All her feelings had been too violent, and it
might well have been that she should have driven this woman to do the very thing that she was
so anxious to avoid. "You owe me some little apology," Madame Goesler had said. It was true,--and
she would apologise. Undue pride was not a part of Lady Glencora's character. Indeed, there
was not enough of pride in her composition. She had been quite ready to hate this woman, and
to fight her on every point as long as the danger existed; but she was equally willing to take
the woman to her heart now that the danger was over. Apologise! Of course she would apologise.
And she would make a friend of the woman if the woman wished it. But she would not have the
woman and the Duke at Matching together again, lest, after all, there might be a mistake. She
did not show Madame Goesler's letter to her husband, or tell him anything of the relief she
had received. He had cared but little for the danger, thinking more of his budget than of the
danger; and would be sufficiently at his ease if he heard no more rumours of his uncle's marriage.
Lady Glencora went to Park Lane early on the Tuesday morning, but she did not take her boy
with her. She understood that Madame Goesler might perhaps indulge in a little gentle raillery
at the child's expense, and the mother felt that this might be borne the more easily if the
child were not present.

"I have come to thank you for your letter, Madame Goesler," said Lady Glencora, before she
sat down.

"Oh, come ye in peace here, or come ye in war, or to dance at our bridal?" said Madame Goesler,
standing up from her chair and laughing, as she sang the lines.

"Certainly not to dance at your bridal," said Lady Glencora.

"Alas! no. You have forbidden the banns too effectually for that, and I sit here wearing the
willow all alone. Why shouldn't I be allowed to get married as well as another woman, I wonder?
I think you have been very hard upon me among you. But sit down, Lady Glencora. At any rate
you come in peace."

"Certainly in peace, and with much admiration,--and a great deal of love and affection, and
all that kind of thing, if you will only accept it."

"I shall be too proud, Lady Glencora;--for the Duke's sake, if for no other reason."

"And I have to make my apology."

"It was made as soon as your carriage stopped at my door with friendly wheels. Of course I
understand. I can know how terrible it all was to you,--even though the dear little Plantagenet
might not have been in much danger. Fancy what it would be to disturb the career of a Plantagenet!
I am far too well read in history, I can assure you."

"I said a word for which I am sorry, and which I should not have said."

"Never mind the word. After all, it was a true word. I do not hesitate to say so now myself,
though I will allow no other woman to say it,--and no man either. I should have degraded him,--and
disgraced him." Madame Goesler now had dropped the bantering tone which she had assumed, and
was speaking in sober earnest. "I, for myself, have nothing about me of which I am ashamed.
I have no history to hide, no story to be brought to light to my discredit. But I have not
been so born, or so placed by circumstances, as make me fit to be the wife of the Duke of Omnium.
I should not have been happy, you know."

"You want nothing, dear Madame Goesler. You have all that society can give you."

"I do not know about that. I have much given to me by society, but there are many things that
I want;--a bright-faced little boy, for instance, to go about with me in my carriage. Why did
you not bring him, Lady Glencora?"

"I came out in my penitential sheet, and when one goes in that guise, one goes alone. I had
half a mind to walk."

"You will bring him soon?"

"Oh, yes. He was very anxious to know the other day who was the beautiful lady with the black
hair."

"You did not tell him that the beautiful lady with the black hair was a possible aunt, was
a possible--? But we will not think any more of things so horrible."

"I told him nothing of my fears, you may be sure."

"Some day, when I am a very old woman, and when his father is quite an old duke, and when he
has a dozen little boys and girls of his own, you will tell him the story. Then he will reflect
what a madman his great-uncle must have been, to have thought of making a duchess out of such
a wizened old woman as that."

They parted the best of friends, but Lady Glencora was still of opinion that if the lady and
the Duke were to be brought together at Matching, or elsewhere, there might still be danger.

CHAPTER LXIII

Showing How the Duke Stood His Ground

Mr. Low the barrister, who had given so many lectures to our friend Phineas Finn, lectures
that ought to have been useful, was now himself in the House of Commons, having reached it
in the legitimate course of his profession. At a certain point of his career, supposing his
career to have been sufficiently prosperous, it becomes natural to a barrister to stand for
some constituency, and natural for him also to form his politics at that period of his life
with a view to his further advancement, looking, as he does so, carefully at the age and standing
of the various candidates for high legal office. When a man has worked as Mr. Low had worked,
he begins to regard the bench wistfully, and to calculate the profits of a two years' run in
the Attorney-Generalship. It is the way of the profession, and thus a proper and sufficient
number of real barristers finds its way into the House. Mr. Low had been angry with Phineas
because he, being a barrister, had climbed into it after another fashion, having taken up politics,
not in the proper way as an assistance to his great profession, but as a profession in itself.
Mr. Low had been quite sure that his pupil had been wrong in this, and that the error would
at last show itself, to his pupil's cost. And Mrs. Low had been more sure than Mr. Low, having
not unnaturally been jealous that a young whipper-snapper of a pupil,--as she had once called
Phineas,--should become a Parliament man before her husband, who had worked his way up gallantly,
in the usual course. She would not give way a jot even now,--not even when she heard that Phineas
was going to marry this and that heiress. For at this period of his life such rumours were
afloat about him, originating probably in his hopes as to Violet Effingham and his intimacy
with Madame Goesler. "Oh, heiresses!" said Mrs. Low. "I don't believe in heiresses' money till
I see it. Three or four hundred a year is a great fortune for a woman, but it don't go far
in keeping a house in London. And when a woman has got a little money she generally knows how
to spend it. He has begun at the wrong end, and they who do that never get themselves right
at the last."

At this time Phineas had become somewhat of a fine gentleman, which made Mrs. Low the more
angry with him. He showed himself willing enough to go to Mrs. Low's house, but when there
he seemed to her to give himself airs. I think that she was unjust to him, and that it was
natural that he should not bear himself beneath her remarks exactly as he had done when he
was nobody. He had certainly been very successful. He was always listened to in the House,
and rarely spoke except on subjects which belonged to him, or had been allotted to him as part
of his business. He lived quite at his ease with people of the highest rank,--and those of
his own mode of life who disliked him did so simply because they regarded with envy his too
rapid rise. He rode upon a pretty horse in the park, and was careful in his dress, and had
about him an air of comfortable wealth which Mrs. Low thought he had not earned. When her husband
told her of his sufficient salary, she would shake her head and express her opinion that a
good time was coming. By which she perhaps meant to imply a belief that a time was coming in
which her husband would have a salary much better than that now enjoyed by Phineas, and much
more likely to be permanent. The Radicals were not to have office for ever, and when they were
gone, what then? "I don't suppose he saves a shilling," said Mrs. Low. "How can he, keeping
a horse in the park, and hunting down in the country, and living with lords? I shouldn't wonder
if he isn't found to be over head and ears in debt when things come to be looked into." Mrs.
Low was fond of an assured prosperity, of money in the funds, and was proud to think that her
husband lived in a house of his own. "£19 10s. ground-rent to the Portman estate is what we
pay, Mr. Bunce," she once said to that gallant Radical, "and that comes of beginning at the
right end. Mr. Low had nothing when he began the world, and I had just what made us decent
the day we married. But he began at the right end, and let things go as they may he can't get
a fall." Mr. Bunce and Mrs. Low, though they differed much in politics, sympathised in reference
to Phineas.

"I never believes, ma'am, in nobody doing any good by getting a place," said Mr. Bunce. "Of
course I don't mean judges and them like, which must be. But when a young man has ever so much
a year for sitting in a big room down at Whitehall, and reading a newspaper with his feet up
on a chair, I don't think it honest, whether he's a Parliament man or whether he ain't." Whence
Mr. Bunce had got his notions as to the way in which officials at Whitehall pass their time,
I cannot say; but his notions are very common notions. The British world at large is slow to
believe that the great British housekeeper keeps no more cats than what kill mice.

Mr. Low, who was now frequently in the habit of seeing Phineas at the House, had somewhat changed
his opinions, and was not so eager in condemning Phineas as was his wife. He had begun to think
that perhaps Phineas had shown some knowledge of his own aptitudes in the career which he had
sought, and was aware, at any rate, that his late pupil was somebody in the House of Commons.
A man will almost always respect him whom those around him respect, and will generally look
up to one who is evidently above himself in his own daily avocation. Now Phineas was certainly
above Mr. Low in parliamentary reputation. He sat on a front bench. He knew the leaders of
parties. He was at home amidst the forms of the House. He enjoyed something of the prestige
of Government power. And he walked about familiarly with the sons of dukes and the brothers
of earls in a manner which had its effect even on Mr. Low. Seeing these things Mr. Low could
not maintain his old opinion as stoutly as did his wife. It was almost a privilege to Mr. Low
to be intimate with Phineas Finn. How then could he look down upon him?

He was surprised, therefore, one day when Phineas discussed the matter with him fully. Phineas
had asked him what would be his chance of success if even now he were to give up politics and
take to the Bar as the means of earning his livelihood. "You would have uphill work at first,
as a matter of course," said Mr. Low.

"But it might be done, I suppose. To have been in office would not be fatal to me?"

"No, not fatal, Nothing of the kind need be fatal. Men have succeeded, and have sat on the
bench afterwards, who did not begin till they were past forty. You would have to live down
a prejudice created against yourself; that is all. The attorneys do not like barristers who
are anything else but barristers."

"The attorneys are very arbitrary, I know," said Phineas.

"Yes;--and there would be this against you--that it is so difficult for a man to go back to
the verdure and malleability of pupildom, who has once escaped from the necessary humility
of its conditions. You will find it difficult to sit and wait for business in a Vice-Chancellor's
Court, after having had Vice-Chancellors, or men as big as Vice-Chancellors, to wait upon you."

"I do not think much of that."

"But others would think of it, and you would find that there were difficulties. But you are
not thinking of it in earnest?"

"Yes, in earnest."

"Why so? I should have thought that every day had removed you further and further from any
such idea."

"The ground I'm on at present is so slippery."

"Well, yes. I can understand that. But yet it is less slippery than it used to be."

"Ah;--you do not exactly see. What if I were to lose my seat?"

"You are safe at least for the next four years, I should say."

"Ah;--no one can tell. And suppose I took it into my head to differ from the Government?"

"You must not do that. You have put yourself into a boat with these men, and you must remain
in the boat. I should have thought all that was easy to you."

"It is not so easy as it seems. The very necessity of sitting still in the boat is in itself
irksome,--very irksome. And then there comes some crisis in which a man cannot sit still."

"Is there any such crisis at hand now?"

"I cannot say that;--but I am beginning to find that sitting still is very disagreeable to
me. When I hear those fellows below having their own way, and saying just what they like, it
makes me furious. There is Robson. He tried office for a couple of years, and has broken away;
and now, by George, there is no man they think so much of as they do of Robson. He is twice
the man he was when he sat on the Treasury Bench."

"He is a man of fortune;--is he not?"

"I suppose so. Of course he is, because he lives. He never earns anything. His wife had money."

"My dear Finn, that makes all the difference. When a man has means of his own he can please
himself. Do you marry a wife with money, and then you may kick up your heels, and do as you
like about the Colonial Office. When a man hasn't money, of course he must fit himself to the
circumstances of a profession."

"Though his profession may require him to be dishonest."

"I did not say that."

"But I say it, my dear Low. A man who is ready to vote black white because somebody tells him,
is dishonest. Never mind, old fellow. I shall pull through, I daresay. Don't go and tell your
wife all this, or she'll be harder upon me than ever when she sees me." After that Mr. Low
began to think that his wife's judgment in this matter had been better than his own.

Robson could do as he liked because he had married a woman with money. Phineas told himself
that that game was also open to him. He, too, might marry money. Violet Effingham had money;--quite
enough to make him independent were he married to her. And Madame Goesler had money;--plenty
of money. And an idea had begun to creep upon him that Madame Goesler would take him were he
to offer himself. But he would sooner go back to the Bar as the lowest pupil, sooner clean
boots for barristers,--so he told himself,--than marry a woman simply because she had money,
than marry any other woman as long as there was a chance that Violet might be won. But it was
very desirable that he should know whether Violet might be won or not. It was now July, and
everybody would be gone in another month. Before August would be over he was to start for Ireland
with Mr. Monk, and he knew that words would be spoken in Ireland which might make it indispensable
for him to be, at any rate, able to throw up his office. In these days he became more anxious
than he used to be about Miss Effingham's fortune.

He had never spoken as yet to Lord Brentford since the day on which the Earl had quarrelled
with him, nor had he ever been at the house in Portman Square. Lady Laura he met occasionally,
and had always spoken to her. She was gracious to him, but there had been no renewal of their
intimacy. Rumours had reached him that things were going badly with her and her husband; but
when men repeated such rumours in his presence, he said little or nothing on the subject. It
was not for him, at any rate, to speak of Lady Laura's unhappiness. Lord Chiltern he had seen
once or twice during the last month, and they had met cordially as friends. Of course he could
ask no question from Lord Chiltern as to Violet; but he did learn that his friend had again
patched up some reconciliation with his father. "He has quarrelled with me, you know," said
Phineas.

"I am very sorry, but what could I do? As things went, I was obliged to tell him."

"Do not suppose for a moment that I am blaming you. It is, no doubt, much better that he should
know it all."

"And it cannot make much difference to you, I should say."

"One doesn't like to quarrel with those who have been kind to one," said Phineas.

"But it isn't your doing. He'll come right again after a time. When I can get my own affairs
settled, you may be sure I'll do my best to bring him round. But what's the reason you never
see Laura now?"

"What's the reason that everything goes awry?" said Phineas, bitterly.

"When I mentioned your name to Kennedy the other day, he looked as black as thunder. But it
is not odd that any one should quarrel with him. I can't stand him. Do you know, I sometimes
think that Laura will have to give it up. Then there will be another mess in the family!"

This was all very well as coming from Lord Chiltern; but there was no word about Violet, and
Phineas did not know how to get a word from any one. Lady Laura could have told him everything,
but he could not go to Lady Laura. He did go to Lady Baldock's house as often as he thought
he could with propriety, and occasionally he saw Violet. But he could do no more than see her,
and the days and weeks were passing by, and the time was coming in which he would have to go
away, and be with her no more. The end of the season, which was always to other men,--to other
working men such as our hero,--a period of pleasurable anticipation, to him was a time of sadness,
in which he felt that he was not exactly like to, or even equal to, the men with whom he lived
in London. In the old days, in which he was allowed to go to Loughlinter or to Saulsby, when
all men and women were going to their Loughlinters and their Saulsbys, it was very well with
him; but there was something melancholy to him in his yearly journey to Ireland. He loved his
father and mother and sisters as well as do other men; but there was a falling off in the manner
of his life which made him feel that he had been in some sort out of his own element in London.
He would have liked to have shot grouse at Loughlinter, or pheasants at Saulsby, or to have
hunted down at Willingford,--or better still, to have made love to Violet Effingham wherever
Violet Effingham might have placed herself. But all this was closed to him now; and there would
be nothing for him but to remain at Killaloe, or to return to his work in Downing Street, from
August to February. Mr. Monk, indeed, was going with him for a few weeks; but even this association
did not make up for that sort of society which he would have preferred.

The session went on very quietly. The question of the Irish Reform Bill was postponed till
the next year, which was a great thing gained. He carried his bill about the Canada Railway,
with sundry other small bills appertaining to it, through the House in a manner which redounded
infinitely to his credit. There was just enough of opposition to give a zest to the work, and
to make the affair conspicuous among the affairs of the year. As his chief was in the other
house, the work fell altogether into his hands, so that he came to be conspicuous among Under-Secretaries.
It was only when he said a word to any leaders of his party about other matters,--about Irish
Tenant-right, for instance, which was beginning to loom very large, that he found himself to
be snubbed. But there was no room for action this year in reference to Irish Tenant-right,
and therefore any deep consideration of that discomfort might be legitimately postponed. If
he did by chance open his mouth on the subject to Mr. Monk, even Mr. Monk discouraged him.

In the early days of July, when the weather was very hot, and people were beginning to complain
of the Thames, and members were becoming thirsty after grouse, and the remaining days of parliamentary
work were being counted up, there came to him news,--news that was soon known throughout the
fashionable world,--that the Duke of Omnium was going to give a garden party at a certain villa
residence on the banks of the Thames above Richmond. It was to be such a garden party as had
never been seen before. And it would be the more remarkable because the Duke had never been
known to do such a thing. The villa was called The Horns, and had, indeed, been given by the
Duke to Lady Glencora on her marriage; but the party was to be the Duke's party, and The Horns,
with all its gardens, conservatories, lawns, shrubberies, paddocks, boat-houses, and boats,
was to be made bright and beautiful for the occasion. Scores of workmen were about the place
through the three first weeks of July. The world at large did not at all know why the Duke
was doing so unwonted a thing,--why he should undertake so new a trouble. But Lady Glencora
knew, and Madame Goesler shrewdly guessed, the riddle. When Madame Goesler's unexpected refusal
had reached his Grace, he felt that he must either accept the lady's refusal, or persevere.
After a day's consideration, he resolved that he would accept it. The top brick of the chimney
was very desirable; but perhaps it might be well that he should endeavour to live without it.
Then, accepting this refusal, he must either stand his ground and bear the blow,--or he must
run away to that villa at Como, or elsewhere. The running away seemed to him at first to be
the better, or at least the more pleasant, course; but at last he determined that he would
stand his ground and bear the blow. Therefore he gave his garden party at The Horns.

Who was to be invited? Before the first week in July was over, many a bosom in London was fluttering
with anxiety on that subject. The Duke, in giving his short word of instruction to Lady Glencora,
made her understand that he would wish her to be particular in her invitations. Her Royal Highness
the Princess, and his Royal Highness the Prince, had both been so gracious as to say that they
would honour his fête. The Duke himself had made out a short list, with not more than a dozen
names. Lady Glencora was employed to select the real crowd,--the five hundred out of the ten
thousand who were to be blessed. On the Duke's own private list was the name of Madame Goesler.
Lady Glencora understood it all. When Madame Goesler got her card, she thought that she understood
it too. And she thought also that the Duke was behaving in a gallant way.

There was, no doubt, much difficulty about the invitations, and a considerable amount of ill-will
was created. And they who considered themselves entitled to be asked, and were not asked, were
full of wrath against their more fortunate friends, instead of being angry with the Duke or
with Lady Glencora, who had neglected them. It was soon known that Lady Glencora was the real
dispenser of the favours, and I fancy that her ladyship was tired of her task before it was
completed. The party was to take place on Wednesday, the 27th of July, and before the day had
come, men and women had become so hardy in the combat that personal applications were made
with unflinching importunity; and letters were written to Lady Glencora putting forward this
claim and that claim with a piteous clamour. "No, that is too bad," Lady Glencora said to her
particular friend, Mrs. Grey, when a letter came from Mrs. Bonteen, stating all that her husband
had ever done towards supporting Mr. Palliser in Parliament,--and all that he ever would do.
"She shan't have it, even though she could put Plantagenet into a minority to-morrow."

Mrs. Bonteen did not get a card; and when she heard that Phineas Finn had received one, her
wrath against Phineas was very great. He was "an Irish adventurer," and she regretted deeply
that Mr. Bonteen had ever interested himself in bringing such an upstart forward in the world
of politics. But as Mr. Bonteen never had done anything towards bringing Phineas forward, there
was not much cause for regret on this head. Phineas, however, got his card, and, of course,
accepted the invitation.

The grounds were opened at four. There was to be an early dinner out in tents at five; and
after dinner men and women were to walk about, or dance, or make love--or hay, as suited them.
The haycocks, however, were ready prepared, while it was expected that they should bring the
love with them. Phineas, knowing that he should meet Violet Effingham, took a great deal with
him ready made.

For an hour and a half Lady Glencora kept her position in a saloon through which the guests
passed to the grounds, and to every comer she imparted the information that the Duke was on
the lawn;--to every comer but one. To Madame Goesler she said no such word. "So glad to see
you, my dear," she said, as she pressed her friend's hand: "if I am not killed by this work,
I'll make you out again by-and-by." Then Madame Goesler passed on, and soon found herself amidst
a throng of acquaintance. After a few minutes she saw the Duke seated in an arm-chair, close
to the river-bank, and she bravely went up to him, and thanked him for the invitation. "The
thanks are due to you for gracing our entertainment," said the Duke, rising to greet her. There
were a dozen people standing round, and so the thing was done without difficulty. At that moment
there came a notice that their royal highnesses were on the ground, and the Duke, of course,
went off to meet them. There was not a word more spoken between the Duke and Madame Goesler
on that afternoon.

Phineas did not come till late,--till seven, when the banquet was over. I think he was right
in this, as the banqueting in tents loses in comfort almost more than it gains in romance.
A small picnic may be very well, and the distance previously travelled may give to a dinner
on the ground the seeming excuse of necessity. Frail human nature must be supported,--and human
nature, having gone so far in pursuit of the beautiful, is entitled to what best support the
unaccustomed circumstances will allow. Therefore, out with the cold pies, out with the salads,
and the chickens, and the champagne. Since no better may be, let us recruit human nature sitting
upon this moss, and forget our discomforts in the glory of the verdure around us. And dear
Mary, seeing that the cushion from the waggonet is small, and not wishing to accept the too
generous offer that she should take it all for her own use, will admit a contact somewhat closer
than the ordinary chairs of a dining-room render necessary. That in its way is very well;--but
I hold that a banquet on narrow tables in a tent is displeasing.

Phineas strolled into the grounds when the tent was nearly empty, and when Lady Glencora, almost
sinking beneath her exertions, was taking rest in an inner room. The Duke at this time was
dining with their royal highnesses, and three or four others, specially selected, very comfortably
within doors. Out of doors the world had begun to dance,--and the world was beginning to say
that it would be much nicer to go and dance upon the boards inside as soon as possible. For,
though of all parties a garden party is the nicest, everybody is always anxious to get out
of the garden as quick as may be. A few ardent lovers of suburban picturesque effect were sitting
beneath the haycocks, and four forlorn damsels were vainly endeavouring to excite the sympathy
of manly youth by playing croquet in a corner. I am not sure, however, that the lovers beneath
the haycocks and the players at croquet were not actors hired by Lady Glencora for the occasion.

Phineas had not been long on the lawn before he saw Lady Laura Kennedy. She was standing with
another lady, and Barrington Erle was with them. "So you have been successful?" said Barrington,
greeting him.

"Successful in what?"

"In what? In getting a ticket. I have had to promise three tide-waiterships, and to give deep
hints about a bishopric expected to be vacant, before I got in. But what matters? Success pays
for everything. My only trouble now is how I'm to get back to London."

Lady Laura shook hands with Phineas, and then as he was passing on, followed him for a step
and whispered a word to him. "Mr. Finn," she said, "if you are not going yet, come back to
me presently. I have something to say to you. I shall not be far from the river, and shall
stay here for about an hour."

Phineas said that he would, and then went on, not knowing exactly where he was going. He had
one desire,--to find Violet Effingham, but when he should find her he could not carry her off,
and sit with her beneath a haycock.

CHAPTER LXIV

The Horns

While looking for Violet Effingham, Phineas encountered Madame Goesler, among a crowd of people
who were watching the adventurous embarkation of certain daring spirits in a pleasure-boat.
There were watermen there in the Duke's livery, ready to take such spirits down to Richmond
or up to Teddington lock, and many daring spirits did take such trips,--to the great peril
of muslins, ribbons, and starch, to the peril also of ornamental summer white garments, so
that when the thing was over, the boats were voted to have been a bore.

"Are you going to venture?" said Phineas to the lady.

"I should like it of all things if I were not afraid for my clothes. Will you come?"

"I was never good upon the water. I should be sea-sick to a certainty. They are going down
beneath the bridge too, and we should be splashed by the steamers. I don't think my courage
is high enough." Thus Phineas excused himself, being still intent on prosecuting his search
for Violet.

"Then neither will I," said Madame Goesler. "One dash from a peccant oar would destroy the
whole symmetry of my dress. Look. That green young lady has already been sprinkled."

"But the blue young gentleman has been sprinkled also," said Phineas, "and they will be happy
in a joint baptism." Then they strolled along the river path together, and were soon alone.
"You will be leaving town soon, Madame Goesler?"

"Almost immediately."

"And where do you go?"

"Oh,--to Vienna. I am there for a couple of months every year, minding my business. I wonder
whether you would know me, if you saw me;--sometimes sitting on a stool in a counting-house,
sometimes going about among old houses, settling what must be done to save them from tumbling
down. I dress so differently at such times, and talk so differently, and look so much older,
that I almost fancy myself to be another person."

"Is it a great trouble to you?"

"No,--I rather like it. It makes me feel that I do something in the world."

"Do you go alone?"

"Quite alone. I take a German maid with me, and never speak a word to any one else on the journey."

"That must be very bad," said Phineas.

"Yes; it is the worst of it. But then I am so much accustomed to be alone. You see me in society,
and in society only, and therefore naturally look upon me as one of a gregarious herd; but
I am in truth an animal that feeds alone and lives alone. Take the hours of the year all through,
and I am a solitary during four-fifths of them. And what do you intend to do?"

"I go to Ireland."

"Home to your own people. How nice! I have no people to go to. I have one sister, who lives
with her husband at Riga. She is my only relation, and I never see her."

"But you have thousands of friends in England."

"Yes,--as you see them,"--and she turned and spread out her hands towards the crowded lawn,
which was behind them. "What are such friends worth? What would they do for me?"

"I do not know that the Duke would do much," said Phineas laughing.

Madame Goesler laughed also. "The Duke is not so bad," she said. "The Duke would do as much
as any one else. I won't have the Duke abused."

"He may be your particular friend, for what I know," said Phineas.

"Ah;--no. I have no particular friend. And were I to wish to choose one, I should think the
Duke a little above me."

"Oh, yes;--and too stiff, and too old, and too pompous, and too cold, and too make-believe,
and too gingerbread."

"Mr. Finn!"

"The Duke is all buckram, you know."

"Then why do you come to his house?"

"To see you, Madame Goesler."

"Is that true, Mr. Finn?"

"Yes;--it is true in its way. One goes about to meet those whom one likes, not always for the
pleasure of the host's society. I hope I am not wrong because I go to houses at which I like
neither the host nor the hostess." Phineas as he said this was thinking of Lady Baldock, to
whom of late he had been exceedingly civil,--but he certainly did not like Lady Baldock.

"I think you have been too hard upon the Duke of Omnium. Do you know him well?"

"Personally? certainly not. Do you? Does anybody?"

"I think he is a gracious gentleman," said Madame Goesler, "and though I cannot boast of knowing
him well, I do not like to hear him called buckram. I do not think he is buckram. It is not
very easy for a man in his position to live so as to please all people. He has to maintain
the prestige of the highest aristocracy in Europe."

"Look at his nephew, who will be the next Duke, and who works as hard as any man in the country.
Will he not maintain it better? What good did the present man ever do?"

"You believe only in motion, Mr. Finn;--and not at all in quiescence. An express train at full
speed is grander to you than a mountain with heaps of snow. I own that to me there is something
glorious in the dignity of a man too high to do anything,--if only he knows how to carry that
dignity with a proper grace. I think that there should be breasts made to carry stars."

"Stars which they have never earned," said Phineas.

"Ah;--well; we will not fight about it. Go and earn your star, and I will say that it becomes
you better than any glitter on the coat of the Duke of Omnium." This she said with an earnestness
which he could not pretend not to notice or not to understand. "I too may be able to see that
the express train is really greater than the mountain."

"Though, for your own life, you would prefer to sit and gaze upon the snowy peaks?"

"No;--that is not so. For myself, I would prefer to be of use somewhere,--to some one, if it
were possible. I strive sometimes."

"And I am sure successfully."

"Never mind. I hate to talk about myself. You and the Duke are fair subjects for conversation;
you as the express train, who will probably do your sixty miles an hour in safety, but may
possibly go down a bank with a crash."

"Certainly I may," said Phineas.

"And the Duke, as the mountain, which is fixed in its stateliness, short of the power of some
earthquake, which shall be grander and more terrible than any earthquake yet known. Here we
are at the house again. I will go in and sit down for a while."

"If I leave you, Madame Goesler, I will say good-bye till next winter."

"I shall be in town again before Christmas, you know. You will come and see me?"

"Of course I will."

"And then this love trouble of course will be over,--one way or the other;--will it not?"

"Ah!--who can say?"

"Faint heart never won fair lady. But your heart is never faint. Farewell."

Then he left her. Up to this moment he had not seen Violet, and yet he knew that she was to
be there. She had herself told him that she was to accompany Lady Laura, whom he had already
met. Lady Baldock had not been invited, and had expressed great animosity against the Duke
in consequence. She had gone so far as to say that the Duke was a man at whose house a young
lady such as her niece ought not to be seen. But Violet had laughed at this, and declared her
intention of accepting the invitation. "Go," she had said; "of course I shall go. I should
have broken my heart if I could not have got there." Phineas therefore was sure that she must
be in the place. He had kept his eyes ever on the alert, and yet he had not found her. And
now he must keep his appointment with Lady Laura Kennedy. So he went down to the path by the
river, and there he found her seated close by the water's edge. Her cousin Barrington Erle
was still with her, but as soon as Phineas joined them, Erle went away. "I had told him," said
Lady Laura, "that I wished to speak to you, and he stayed with me till you came. There are
worse men than Barrington a great deal."

"I am sure of that."

"Are you and he still friends, Mr. Finn?"

"I hope so. I do not see so much of him as I did when I had less to do."

"He says that you have got into altogether a different set."

"I don't know that. I have gone as circumstances have directed me, but I have certainly not
intended to throw over so old and good a friend as Barrington Erle."

"Oh,--he does not blame you. He tells me that you have found your way among what he calls the
working men of the party, and he thinks you will do very well,--if you can only be patient
enough. We all expected a different line from you, you know,--more of words and less of deeds,
if I may say so;--more of liberal oratory and less of government action; but I do not doubt
that you are right."

"I think that I have been wrong," said Phineas. "I am becoming heartily sick of officialities."

"That comes from the fickleness about which papa is so fond of quoting his Latin. The ox desires
the saddle. The charger wants to plough."

"And which am I?"

"Your career may combine the dignity of the one with the utility of the other. At any rate
you must not think of changing now. Have you seen Mr. Kennedy lately?" She asked the question
abruptly, showing that she was anxious to get to the matter respecting which she had summoned
him to her side, and that all that she had said hitherto had been uttered as it were in preparation
of that subject.

"Seen him? yes; I see him daily. But we hardly do more than speak,"

"Why not?" Phineas stood for a moment in silence, hesitating. "Why is it that he and you do
not speak?"

"How can I answer that question, Lady Laura?"

"Do you know any reason? Sit down, or, if you please, I will get up and walk with you. He tells
me that you have chosen to quarrel with him, and that I have made you do so. He says that you
have confessed to him that I have asked you to quarrel with him."

"He can hardly have said that."

"But he has said it,--in so many words. Do you think that I would tell you such a story falsely?"

"Is he here now?"

"No;--he is not here. He would not come. I came alone."

"Is not Miss Effingham with you?"

"No;--she is to come with my father later. She is here no doubt, now. But answer my question,
Mr. Finn;--unless you find that you cannot answer it. What was it that you did say to my husband?"

"Nothing to justify what he has told you."

"Do you mean to say that he has spoken falsely?"

"I mean to use no harsh word,--but I think that Mr. Kennedy when troubled in his spirit looks
at things gloomily, and puts meaning upon words which they should not bear."

"And what has troubled his spirit?"

"You must know that better than I can do, Lady Laura. I will tell you all that I can tell you.
He invited me to his house and I would not go, because you had forbidden me. Then he asked
me some questions about you. Did I refuse because of you,--or of anything that you had said?
If I remember right, I told him that I did fancy that you would not be glad to see me,--and
that therefore I would rather stay away. What was I to say?"

"You should have said nothing."

"Nothing with him would have been worse than what I did say. Remember that he asked me the
question point-blank, and that no reply would have been equal to an affirmation. I should have
confessed that his suggestion was true."

"He could not then have twitted me with your words."

"If I have erred, Lady Laura, and brought any sorrow on you, I am indeed grieved."

"It is all sorrow. There is nothing but sorrow. I have made up my mind to leave him."

"Oh, Lady Laura!"

"It is very bad,--but not so bad, I think, as the life I am now leading. He has accused me--,
of what do you think? He says that you are my lover!"

"He did not say that,--in those words?"

"He said it in words which made me feel that I must part from him."

"And how did you answer him?"

"I would not answer him at all. If he had come to me like a man,--not accusing me, but asking
me,--I would have told him everything. And what was there to tell? I should have broken my
faith to you, in speaking of that scene at Loughlinter, but women always tell such stories
to their husbands when their husbands are good to them, and true, and just. And it is well
that they should be told. But to Mr. Kennedy I can tell nothing. He does not believe my word."

"Not believe you, Lady Laura?"

"No! Because I did not blurt out to him all that story about your foolish duel,--because I
thought it best to keep my brother's secret, as long as there was a secret to be kept, he told
me that I had,--lied to him!"

"What!--with that word?"

"Yes,--with that very word. He is not particular about his words, when he thinks it necessary
to express himself strongly. And he has told me since that because of that he could never believe
me again. How is it possible that a woman should live with such a man?" But why did she come
to him with this story,--to him whom she had been accused of entertaining as a lover;--to him
who of all her friends was the last whom she should have chosen as the recipient for such a
tale? Phineas as he thought how he might best answer her, with what words he might try to comfort
her, could not but ask himself this question. "The moment that the word was out of his mouth,"
she went on to say, "I resolved that I would tell you. The accusation is against you as it
is against me, and is equally false to both. I have written to him, and there is my letter."

"But you will see him again?"

"No;--I will go to my father's house. I have already arranged it. Mr. Kennedy has my letter
by this time, and I go from hence home with my father."

"Do you wish that I should read the letter?"

"Yes,--certainly. I wish that you should read it. Should I ever meet him again, I shall tell
him that you saw it."

They were now standing close upon the river's bank, at a corner of the grounds, and, though
the voices of people sounded near to them, they were alone. Phineas had no alternative but
to read the letter, which was as follows:--

   After what you have said to me it is impossible that I
   should return to your house. I shall meet my father at the
   Duke of Omnium's, and have already asked him to give me an
   asylum. It is my wish to remain wherever he may be, either
   in town or in the country. Should I change my purpose in
   this, and change my residence, I will not fail to let you
   know where I go and what I propose to do. You I think must
   have forgotten that I was your wife; but I will never
   forget it.

   You have accused me of having a lover. You cannot have
   expected that I should continue to live with you after
   such an accusation. For myself I cannot understand how
   any man can have brought himself to bring such a charge
   against his wife. Even had it been true the accusation
   should not have been made by your mouth to my ears.

   That it is untrue I believe you must be as well aware as
   I am myself. How intimate I was with. Mr. Finn, and what
   were the limits of my intimacy with him you knew before
   I married you. After our marriage I encouraged his
   friendship till I found that there was something in
   it that displeased you,--and, after learning that, I
   discouraged it. You have said that he is my lover, but
   you have probably not defined for yourself that word very
   clearly. You have felt yourself slighted because his name
   has been mentioned with praise;--and your jealousy has
   been wounded because you have thought that I have regarded
   him as in some way superior to yourself. You have never
   really thought that he was my lover,--that he spoke words
   to me which others might not hear, that he claimed from
   me aught that a wife may not give, that he received aught
   which a friend should not receive. The accusation has been
   a coward's accusation.

   I shall be at my father's to-night, and to-morrow I will
   get you to let my servant bring to me such things as are
   my own,--my clothes, namely, and desk, and a few books.
   She will know what I want. I trust you may be happier
   without a wife, than ever you have been with me. I have
   felt almost daily since we were married that you were a
   man who would have been happier without a wife than with
   one.

   Yours affectionately,

   LAURA KENNEDY.

"It is at any rate true," she said, when Phineas had read the letter.

"True! Doubtless it is true," said Phineas, "except that I do not suppose he was ever really
angry with me, or jealous, or anything of the sort,--because I got on well. It seems absurd
even to think it."

"There is nothing too absurd for some men. I remember your telling me that he was weak, and
poor, and unworthy. I remember your saying so when I first thought that he might become my
husband. I wish I had believed you when you told me so. I should not have made such a shipwreck
of myself as I have done. That is all I had to say to you. After what has passed between us
I did not choose that you should hear how I was separated from my husband from any lips but
my own. I will go now and find papa. Do not come with me. I prefer being alone." Then he was
left standing by himself, looking down upon the river as it glided by. How would it have been
with both of them if Lady Laura had accepted him three years ago, when she consented to join
her lot with that of Mr. Kennedy, and had rejected him? As he stood he heard the sound of music
from the house, and remembered that he had come there with the one sole object of seeing Violet
Effingham. He had known that he would meet Lady Laura, and it had been in his mind to break
through that law of silence which she had imposed upon him, and once more to ask her to assist
him,--to implore her for the sake of their old friendship to tell him whether there might yet
be for him any chance of success. But in the interview which had just taken place it had been
impossible for him to speak a word of himself or of Violet. To her, in her great desolation,
he could address himself on no other subject than that of her own misery. But not the less
when she was talking to him of her own sorrow, of her regret that she had not listened to him
when in years past he had spoken slightingly of Mr. Kennedy, was he thinking of Violet Effingham.
Mr. Kennedy had certainly mistaken the signs of things when he had accused his wife by saying
that Phineas was her lover. Phineas had soon got over that early feeling; and as far as he
himself was concerned had never regretted Lady Laura's marriage.

He remained down by the water for a few minutes, giving Lady Laura time to escape, and then
he wandered across the grounds towards the house. It was now about nine o'clock, and though
there were still many walking about the grounds, the crowd of people were in the rooms. The
musicians were ranged out on a verandah, so that their music might have been available for
dancing within or without; but the dancers had found the boards pleasanter than the lawn, and
the Duke's garden party was becoming a mere ball, with privilege for the dancers to stroll
about the lawn between the dances. And in this respect the fun was better than at a ball,--that
let the engagements made for partners be what they might, they could always be broken with
ease. No lady felt herself bound to dance with a cavalier who was displeasing to her; and some
gentlemen were left sadly in the lurch. Phineas felt himself to be very much in the lurch,
even after he had discovered Violet Effingham standing up to dance with Lord Fawn.

He bided his time patiently, and at last he found his opportunity. "Would she dance with him?"
She declared that she intended to dance no more, and that she had promised to be ready to return
home with Lord Brentford before ten o'clock. "I have pledged myself not to be after ten," she
said, laughing. Then she put her hand upon his arm, and they stepped out upon the terrace together.
"Have you heard anything?" she asked him, almost in a whisper.

"Yes," he said. "I have heard what you mean. I have heard it all."

"Is it not dreadful?"

"I fear it is the best thing she can do. She has never been happy with him."

"But to be accused after that fashion,--by her husband!" said Violet. "One can hardly believe
it in these days. And of all women she is the last to deserve such accusation."

"The very last," said Phineas, feeling that the subject was one upon which it was not easy
for him to speak.

"I cannot conceive to whom he can have alluded," said Violet. Then Phineas began to understand
that Violet had not heard the whole story; but the difficulty of speaking was still very great.

"It has been the result of ungovernable temper," he said.

"But a man does not usually strive to dishonour himself because he is in a rage. And this man
is incapable of rage. He must be cursed with one of those dark gloomy minds in which love always
leads to jealousy. She will never return to him."

"One cannot say. In many respects it would be better that she should," said Phineas.

"She will never return to him," repeated Violet,--"never. Would you advise her to do so?"

"How can I say? If one were called upon for advice, one would think so much before one spoke."

"I would not,--not for a minute. What! to be accused of that! How are a man and woman to live
together after there have been such words between them? Poor Laura! What a terrible end to
all her high hopes! Do you not grieve for her?"

They were now at some distance from the house, and Phineas could not but feel that chance had
been very good to him in giving him his opportunity. She was leaning on his arm, and they were
alone, and she was speaking to him with all the familiarity of old friendship. "I wonder whether
I may change the subject," said he, "and ask you a word about yourself?"

"What word?" she said sharply.

"I have heard--"

"What have you heard?"

"Simply this,--that you are not now as you were six months ago. Your marriage was then fixed
for June."

"It has been unfixed since then," she said.

"Yes;--it has been unfixed. I know it. Miss Effingham, you will not be angry with me if I say
that when I heard it was so, something of a hope,--no, I must not call it a hope,--something
that longed to form itself into hope returned to my breast, and from that hour to this has
been the only subject on which I have cared to think."

"Lord Chiltern is your friend, Mr. Finn?"

"He is so, and I do not think that I have ever been untrue to my friendship for him."

"He says that no man has ever had a truer friend. He will swear to that in all companies. And
I, when it was allowed to me to swear with him, swore it too. As his friend, let me tell you
one thing,--one thing which I would never tell to any other man,--one thing which I know I
may tell you in confidence. You are a gentleman, and will not break my confidence?"

"I think I will not."

"I know you will not, because you are a gentleman. I told Lord Chiltern in the autumn of last
year that I loved him. And I did love him. I shall never have the same confession to make to
another man. That he and I are not now,--on those loving terms,--which once existed, can make
no difference in that. A woman cannot transfer her heart. There have been things which have
made me feel,--that I was perhaps mistaken,--in saying that I would be,--his wife. But I said
so, and cannot now give myself to another. Here is Lord Brentford, and we will join him." There
was Lord Brentford with Lady Laura on his arm, very gloomy,--resolving on what way he might
be avenged on the man who had insulted his daughter. He took but little notice of Phineas as
he resumed his charge of Miss Effingham; but the two ladies wished him good night.

"Good night, Lady Laura," said Phineas, standing with his hat in his hand,--"good night, Miss
Effingham." Then he was alone,--quite alone. Would it not be well for him to go down to the
bottom of the garden, and fling himself into the quiet river, so that there might be an end
of him? Or would it not be better still that he should create for himself some quiet river
of life, away from London, away from politics, away from lords, and titled ladies, and fashionable
squares, and the parties given by dukes, and the disappointments incident to a small man in
attempting to make for himself a career among big men? There had frequently been in the mind
of this young man an idea that there was something almost false in his own position,--that
his life was a pretence, and that he would ultimately be subject to that ruin which always
comes, sooner or later, on things which are false; and now as he wandered alone about Lady
Glencora's gardens, this feeling was very strong within his bosom, and robbed him altogether
of the honour and glory of having been one of the Duke of Omnium's guests.

CHAPTER LXV

The Cabinet Minister at Killaloe

Phineas did not throw himself into the river from the Duke's garden; and was ready, in spite
of Violet Effingham, to start for Ireland with Mr. Monk at the end of the first week in August.
The close of that season in London certainly was not a happy period of his life. Violet had
spoken to him after such a fashion that he could not bring himself not to believe her. She
had given him no hint whether it was likely or unlikely that she and Lord Chiltern would be
reconciled; but she had convinced him that he could not be allowed to take Lord Chiltern's
place. "A woman cannot transfer her heart," she had said. Phineas was well aware that many
women do transfer their hearts; but he had gone to this woman too soon after the wrench which
her love had received; he had been too sudden with his proposal for a transfer; and the punishment
for such ill judgment must be that success would now be impossible to him. And yet how could
he have waited, feeling that Miss Effingham, if she were at all like other girls whom he had
known, might have promised herself to some other lover before she would return within his reach
in the succeeding spring? But she was not like some other girls. Ah;--he knew that now, and
repented him of his haste.

But he was ready for Mr. Monk on the 7th of August, and they started together. Something less
than twenty hours took them from London to Killaloe, and during four or five of those twenty
hours Mr. Monk was unfitted for any conversation by the uncomfortable feelings incidental to
the passage from Holyhead to Kingstown. Nevertheless, there was a great deal of conversation
between them during the journey. Mr. Monk had almost made up his mind to leave the Cabinet.
"It is sad to me to have to confess it," he said, "but the truth is that my old rival, Turnbull,
is right. A man who begins his political life as I began mine, is not the man of whom a Minister
should be formed. I am inclined to think that Ministers of Government require almost as much
education in their trade as shoemakers or tallow-chandlers. I doubt whether you can make a
good public servant of a man simply because he has got the ear of the House of Commons."

"Then you mean to say," said Phineas, "that we are altogether wrong from beginning to end,
in our way of arranging these things?"

"I do not say that at all. Look at the men who have been leading statesmen since our present
mode of government was formed,--from the days in which it was forming itself, say from Walpole
down, and you will find that all who have been of real use had early training as public servants."

"Are we never to get out of the old groove?"

"Not if the groove is good," said Mr. Monk, "Those who have been efficient as ministers sucked
in their efficacy with their mother's milk. Lord Brock did so, and Lord de Terrier, and Mr.
Mildmay. They seated themselves in office chairs the moment they left college. Mr. Gresham
was in office before he was eight-and-twenty. The Duke of St. Bungay was at work as a Private
Secretary when he was three-and-twenty. You, luckily for yourself, have done the same."

"And regret it every hour of my life."

"You have no cause for regret, but it is not so with me. If there be any man unfitted by his
previous career for office, it is he who has become, or who has endeavoured to become, a popular
politician,--an exponent, if I may say so, of public opinion. As far as I can see, office is
offered to such men with one view only,--that of clipping their wings."

"And of obtaining their help."

"It is the same thing. Help from Turnbull would mean the withdrawal of all power of opposition
from him. He could not give other help for any long term, as the very fact of his accepting
power and patronage would take from him his popular leadership. The masses outside require
to have their minister as the Queen has hers; but the same man cannot be minister to both.
If the people's minister chooses to change his master, and to take the Queen's shilling, something
of temporary relief may be gained by government in the fact that the other place will for a
time be vacant. But there are candidates enough for such places, and the vacancy is not a vacancy
long. Of course the Crown has this pull, that it pays wages, and the people do not."

"I do not think that that influenced you," said Phineas.

"It did not influence me. To you I will make bold to state so much positively, though it would
be foolish, perhaps, to do so to others. I did not go for the shilling, though I am so poor
a man that the shilling is more to me than it would be to almost any man in the House. I took
the shilling, much doubting, but guided in part by this, that I was ashamed of being afraid
to take it. They told me,--Mr. Mildmay and the Duke,--that I could earn it to the benefit of
the country. I have not earned it, and the country has not been benefited,--unless it be for
the good of the country that my voice in the House should be silenced. If I believe that, I
ought to hold my tongue without taking a salary for holding it. I have made a mistake, my friend.
Such mistakes made at my time of life cannot be wholly rectified; but, being convinced of my
error, I must do the best in my power to put myself right again."

There was a bitterness in all this to Phineas himself of which he could not but make plaint
to his companion. "The truth is," he said, "that a man in office must be a slave, and that
slavery is distasteful."

"There I think you are wrong. If you mean that you cannot do joint work with other men altogether
after your own fashion the same may be said of all work. If you had stuck to the Bar you must
have pleaded your causes in conformity with instructions from the attorneys."

"I should have been guided by my own lights in advising those attorneys."

"I cannot see that you suffer anything that ought to go against the grain with you. You are
beginning young, and it is your first adopted career. With me it is otherwise. If by my telling
you this I shall have led you astray, I shall regret my openness with you. Could I begin again,
I would willingly begin as you began."

It was a great day in Killaloe, that on which Mr. Monk arrived with Phineas at the doctor's
house. In London, perhaps, a bishop inspires more awe than a Cabinet Minister. In Killaloe,
where a bishop might be seen walking about every day, the mitred dignitary of the Church, though
much loved, was thought of, I fear, but lightly; whereas a Cabinet Minister coming to stay
in the house of a townsman was a thing to be wondered at, to be talked about, to be afraid
of, to be a fruitful source of conversation for a year to come. There were many in Killaloe,
especially among the elder ladies, who had shaken their heads and expressed the saddest doubts
when young Phineas Finn had first become a Parliament man. And though by degrees they had been
half brought round, having been driven to acknowledge that he had been wonderfully successful
as a Parliament man, still they had continued to shake their heads among themselves, and to
fear something in the future,--until he appeared at his old home leading a Cabinet Minister
by the hand. There was such assurance in this that even old Mrs. Callaghan, at the brewery,
gave way, and began to say all manner of good things, and to praise the doctor's luck in that
he had a son gifted with parts so excellent. There was a great desire to see the Cabinet Minister
in the flesh, to be with him when he ate and drank, to watch the gait and countenance of the
man, and to drink water from this fountain of state lore which had been so wonderfully brought
among them by their young townsman. Mrs. Finn was aware that it behoved her to be chary of
her invitations, but the lady from the brewery had said such good things of Mrs. Finn's black
swan, that she carried her point, and was invited to meet the Cabinet Minister at dinner on
the day after his arrival.

Mrs. Flood Jones and her daughter were invited also to be of the party. When Phineas had been
last at Killaloe, Mrs. Flood Jones, as the reader may remember, had remained with her daughter
at Floodborough,--feeling it to be her duty to keep her daughter away from the danger of an
unrequited attachment. But it seemed that her purpose was changed now, or that she no longer
feared the danger,--for both Mary and her mother were now again living in Killaloe, and Mary
was at the doctor's house as much as ever.

A day or two before the coming of the god and the demigod to the little town, Barbara Finn
and her friend had thus come to understand each other as they walked along the Shannon side.
"I am sure, my dear, that he is engaged to nobody," said Barbara Finn.

"And I am sure, my dear," said Mary, "that I do not care whether he is or is not."

"What do you mean, Mary?"

"I mean what I say. Why should I care? Five years ago I had a foolish dream, and now I am awake
again. Think how old I have got to be!"

"Yes;--you are twenty-three. What has that to do with it?"

"It has this to do with it;--that I am old enough to know better. Mamma and I quite understand
each other. She used to be angry with him, but she has got over all that foolishness now. It
always made me so vexed;--the idea of being angry with a man because,--because--! You know
one can't talk about it, it is so foolish. But that is all over now."

"Do you mean to say you don't care for him, Mary? Do you remember what you used to swear to
me less than two years ago?"

"I remember it all very well, and I remember what a goose I was. As for caring for him, of
course I do,--because he is your brother, and because I have known him all my life. But if
he were going to be married to-morrow, you would see that it would make no difference to me."

Barbara Finn walked on for a couple of minutes in silence before she replied. "Mary," she said
at last, "I don't believe a word of it."

"Very well;--then all that I shall ask of you is, that we may not talk about him any more.
Mamma believes it, and that is enough for me." Nevertheless, they did talk about Phineas during
the whole of that day, and very often talked about him afterwards, as long as Mary remained
at Killaloe.

There was a large dinner party at the doctor's on the day after Mr. Monk's arrival. The bishop
was not there, though he was on terms sufficiently friendly with the doctor's family to have
been invited on so grand an occasion; but he was not there, because Mrs. Finn was determined
that she would be taken out to dinner by a Cabinet Minister in the face of all her friends.
She was aware that had the bishop been there, she must have taken the bishop's arm. And though
there would have been glory in that, the other glory was more to her taste. It was the first
time in her life that she had ever seen a Cabinet Minister, and I think that she was a little
disappointed at finding him so like other middle-aged gentlemen. She had hoped that Mr. Monk
would have assumed something of the dignity of his position; but he assumed nothing. Now the
bishop, though he was a very mild man, did assume something by the very facts of his apron
and knee-breeches.

"I am sure, sir, it is very good of you to come and put up with our humble way of living,"
said Mrs. Finn to her guest, as they sat down at table. And yet she had resolved that she would
not make any speech of the kind,--that she would condescend to no apology,--that she would
bear herself as though a Cabinet Minister dined with her at least once a year. But when the
moment came, she broke down, and made this apology with almost abject meekness, and then hated
herself because she had done so.

"My dear madam," said Mr. Monk, "I live myself so much like a hermit that your house is a palace
of luxury to me." Then he felt that he had made a foolish speech, and he also hated himself.
He found it very difficult to talk to his hostess upon any subject, until by chance he mentioned
his young friend Phineas. Then her tongue was unloosed. "Your son, madam," he said, "is going
with me to Limerick and back to Dublin. It is a shame, I know, taking him so soon away from
home, but I should not know how to get on without him."

"Oh, Mr. Monk, it is such a blessing for him, and such an honour for us, that you should be
so good to him." Then the mother spoke out all her past fears and all her present hopes, and
acknowledged the great glory which it was to her to have a son sitting in Parliament, holding
an office with a stately name and a great salary, and blessed with the friendship of such a
man as Mr. Monk. After that Mr. Monk got on better with her.

"I don't know any young man," said he, "in whose career I have taken so strong an interest."

"He was always good," said Mrs. Finn, with a tear forcing itself into the corner of each eye.
"I am his mother, and of course I ought not to say so,--not in this way; but it is true, Mr.
Monk." And then the poor lady was obliged to raise her handkerchief and wipe away the drops.

Phineas on this occasion had taken out to dinner the mother of his devoted Mary, Mrs. Flood
Jones. "What a pleasure it must be to the doctor and Mrs. Finn to see you come back in this
way," said Mrs. Flood Jones.

"With all my bones unbroken?" said he, laughing.

"Yes; with all your bones unbroken. You know, Phineas, when we first heard that you were to
sit in Parliament, we were afraid that you might break a rib or two,--since you choose to talk
about the breaking of bones."

"Yes, I know. Everybody thought I should come to grief; but nobody felt so sure of it as I
did myself."

"But you have not come to grief."

"I am not out of the wood yet, you know, Mrs. Flood Jones. There is plenty of possibility for
grief in my way still."

"As far as I can understand it, you are out of the wood. All that your friends here want to
see now is, that you should marry some nice English girl, with a little money, if possible.
Rumours have reached us, you know."

"Rumours always lie," said Phineas.

"Sometimes they do, of course; and I am not going to ask any indiscreet questions. But that
is what we all hope. Mary was saying, only the other day, that if you were once married, we
should all feel quite safe about you. And you know we all take the most lively interest in
your welfare. It is not every day that a man from County Clare gets on as you have done, and
therefore we are bound to think of you." Thus Mrs. Flood Jones signified to Phineas Finn that
she had forgiven him the thoughtlessness of his early youth,--even though there had been something
of treachery in that thoughtlessness to her own daughter; and showed him, also, that whatever
Mary's feelings might have been once, they were not now of a nature to trouble her. "Of course
you will marry?" said Mrs. Flood Jones.

"I should think very likely not," said Phineas, who perhaps looked farther into the mind of
the lady than the lady intended.

"Oh, do," said the lady. "Every man should marry as soon as he can, and especially a man in
your position."

When the ladies met together in the drawing-room after dinner, it was impossible but that they
should discuss Mr. Monk. There was Mrs. Callaghan from the brewery there, and old Lady Blood,
of Bloodstone,--who on ordinary occasions would hardly admit that she was on dining-out terms
with any one in Killaloe except the bishop, but who had found it impossible to decline to meet
a Cabinet Minister,--and there was Mrs. Stackpoole from Sixmiletown, a far-away cousin of the
Finns, who hated Lady Blood with a true provincial hatred.

"I don't see anything particularly uncommon in him, after all," said Lady Blood.

"I think he is very nice indeed," said Mrs. Flood Jones.

"So very quiet, my dear, and just like other people," said Mrs. Callaghan, meaning to pronounce
a strong eulogium on the Cabinet Minister.

"Very like other people indeed," said Lady Blood.

"And what would you expect, Lady Blood?" said Mrs. Stackpoole. "Men and women in London walk
upon two legs, just as they do in Ennis." Now Lady Blood herself had been born and bred in
Ennis, whereas Mrs. Stackpoole had come from Limerick, which is a much more considerable town,
and therefore there was a satire in this allusion to the habits of the men of Ennis which Lady
Blood understood thoroughly.

"My dear Mrs. Stackpoole, I know how the people walk in London quite as well as you do." Lady
Blood had once passed three months in London while Sir Patrick had been alive, whereas Mrs.
Stackpoole had never done more than visit the metropolis for a day or two.

"Oh, no doubt," said Mrs. Stackpoole; "but I never can understand what it is that people expect.
I suppose Mr. Monk ought to have come with his stars on the breast of his coat, to have pleased
Lady Blood."

"My dear Mrs. Stackpoole, Cabinet Ministers don't have stars," said Lady Blood.

"I never said they did," said Mrs. Stackpoole.

"He is so nice and gentle to talk to," said Mrs. Finn. "You may say what you will, but men
who are high up do very often give themselves airs. Now I must say that this friend of my son's
does not do anything of that kind."

"Not the least," said Mrs. Callaghan.

"Quite the contrary," said Mrs. Stackpoole.

"I dare say he is a wonderful man," said Lady Blood. "All I say is, that I didn't hear anything
wonderful come out of his mouth; and as for people in Ennis walking on two legs, I have seen
donkeys in Limerick doing just the same thing." Now it was well known that Mrs. Stackpoole
had two sons living in Limerick, as to neither of whom was it expected that he would set the
Shannon on fire. After this little speech there was no further mention of Mr. Monk, as it became
necessary that all the good-nature of Mrs. Finn and all the tact of Mrs. Flood Jones and all
the energy of Mrs. Callaghan should be used, to prevent the raging of an internecine battle
between Mrs. Stackpoole and Lady Blood.

CHAPTER LXVI

Victrix

Mr. Monk's holiday programme allowed him a week at Killaloe, and from thence he was to go to
Limerick, and from Limerick to Dublin, in order that, at both places, he might be entertained
at a public dinner and make a speech about tenant-right. Foreseeing that Phineas might commit
himself if he attended these meetings, Mr. Monk had counselled him to remain at Killaloe. But
Phineas had refused to subject himself to such cautious abstinence. Mr. Monk had come to Ireland
as his friend, and he would see him through his travels. "I shall not, probably, be asked to
speak," said Phineas, "and if I am asked, I need not say more than a few words. And what if
I did speak out?"

"You might find it disadvantageous to you in London."

"I must take my chance of that. I am not going to tie myself down for ever and ever for the
sake of being Under-Secretary to the Colonies." Mr. Monk said very much to him on the subject,--was
constantly saying very much to him about it; but in spite of all that Mr. Monk said, Phineas
did make the journey to Limerick and Dublin.

He had not, since his arrival at Killaloe, been a moment alone with Mary Flood Jones till the
evening before he started with Mr. Monk. She had kept out of his way successfully, though she
had constantly been with him in company, and was beginning to plume herself on the strength
and valour of her conduct. But her self-praise had in it nothing of joy, and her glory was
very sad. Of course she would care for him no more,--more especially as it was so very evident
that he cared not at all for her. But the very fact of her keeping out of his way, made her
acknowledge to herself that her position was very miserable. She had declared to her mother
that she might certainly go to Killaloe with safety,--that it would be better for her to put
herself in the way of meeting him as an old friend,--that the idea of the necessity of shutting
herself up because of his approach, was the one thing that gave her real pain. Therefore her
mother had brought her to Killaloe and she had met him; but her fancied security had deserted
her, and she found herself to be miserable, hoping for something she did not know what, still
dreaming of possibilities, feeling during every moment of his presence with her that some special
conduct was necessary on her part. She could not make further confession to her mother and
ask to be carried back to Floodborough; but she knew that she was very wretched at Killaloe.

As for Phineas, he had felt that his old friend was very cold to him. He was in that humour
with reference to Violet Effingham which seemed especially to require consolation. He knew
now that all hope was over there. Violet Effingham could never be his wife. Even were she not
to marry Lord Chiltern for the next five years, she would not, during those five years, marry
any other man. Such was our hero's conviction; and, suffering under this conviction, he was
in want of the comfort of feminine sympathy. Had Mary known all this, and had it suited her
to play such a part, I think she might have had Phineas at her feet before he had been a week
at home. But she had kept aloof from him and had heard nothing of his sorrows. As a natural
consequence of this, Phineas was more in love with her than ever.

On the evening before he started with Mr. Monk for Limerick, he managed to be alone with her
for a few minutes. Barbara may probably have assisted in bringing about this arrangement, and
had, perhaps, been guilty of some treachery,--sisters in such circumstances will sometimes
be very treacherous to their friends. I feel sure, however, that Mary herself was quite innocent
of any guile in the matter. "Mary," Phineas said to her suddenly, "it seems to me that you
have avoided me purposely ever since I have been at home." She smiled and blushed, and stammered
and said nothing. "Has there been any reason for it, Mary?"

"No reason at all that I know of," she said.

"We used to be such great friends."

"That was before you were a great man, Phineas. It must necessarily be different now. You know
so many people now, and people of such a different sort, that of course I fall a little into
the background."

"When you talk in that way, Mary, I know that you are laughing at me."

"Indeed, indeed I am not."

"I believe there is no one in the whole world," he said, after a pause, "whose friendship is
more to me than yours is. I think of it so often, Mary. Say that when we come back it shall
be between us as it used to be." Then he put out his hand for hers, and she could not help
giving it to him. "Of course there will be people," he said, "who talk nonsense, and one cannot
help it; but I will not put up with it from you."

"I did not mean to talk nonsense, Phineas!" Then there came some one across them, and the conversation
was ended; but the sound of his voice remained on her ears, and she could not help but remember
that he had declared that her friendship was dearer to him than the friendship of any one else.

Phineas went with Mr. Monk first to Limerick and then to Dublin, and found himself at both
places to be regarded as a hero only second to the great hero. At both places the one subject
of debate was tenant-right;--could anything be done to make it profitable for men with capital
to put their capital into Irish land? The fertility of the soil was questioned by no one,--nor
the sufficiency of external circumstances, such as railroads and the like;--nor the abundance
of labour;--nor even security for the wealth to be produced. The only difficulty was in this,
that the men who were to produce the wealth had no guarantee that it would be theirs when it
was created. In England and elsewhere such guarantees were in existence. Might it not be possible
to introduce them into Ireland? That was the question which Mr. Monk had in hand; and in various
speeches which he made both before and after the dinners given to him, he pledged himself to
keep it well in hand when Parliament should meet. Of course Phineas spoke also. It was impossible
that he should be silent when his friend and leader was pouring out his eloquence. Of course
he spoke, and of course he pledged himself. Something like the old pleasures of the debating
society returned to him, as standing upon a platform before a listening multitude, he gave
full vent to his words. In the House of Commons, of late he had been so cabined, cribbed, and
confined by office as to have enjoyed nothing of this. Indeed, from the commencement of his
career, he had fallen so thoroughly into the decorum of Government ways, as to have missed
altogether the delights of that wild irresponsible oratory of which Mr. Monk had spoken to
him so often. He had envied men below the gangway, who, though supporting the Government on
main questions, could get up on their legs whenever the House was full enough to make it worth
their while, and say almost whatever they pleased. There was that Mr. Robson, who literally
did say just what came uppermost; and the thing that came uppermost was often ill-natured,
often unbecoming the gravity of the House, was always startling; but men listened to him and
liked him to speak. But Mr. Robson had--married a woman with money. Oh, why,--why, had not
Violet Effingham been kinder to him? He might even yet, perhaps, marry a woman with money.
But he could not bring himself to do so unless he loved her.

The upshot of the Dublin meeting was that he also positively pledged himself to support during
the next session of Parliament a bill advocating tenant-right. "I am sorry you went so far
as that," Mr. Monk said to him almost as soon as the meeting was over. They were standing on
the pier at Kingstown, and Mr. Monk was preparing to return to England.

"And why not I as far as you?"

"Because I had thought about it, and I do not think that you have. I am prepared to resign
my office to-morrow; and directly that I can see Mr. Gresham and explain to him what I have
done, I shall offer to do so."

"He won't accept your resignation."

"He must accept it, unless he is prepared to instruct the Irish Secretary to bring in such
a bill as I can support."

"I shall be exactly in the same boat."

"But you ought not to be in the same boat;--nor need you. My advice to you is to say nothing
about it till you get back to London, and then speak to Lord Cantrip. Tell him that you will
not say anything on the subject in the House, but that in the event of there being a division
you hope to be allowed to vote as on an open question. It may be that I shall get Gresham's
assent, and if so we shall be all right. If I do not, and if they choose to make it a point
with you, you must resign also."

"Of course I shall," said Phineas.

"But I do not think they will. You have been too useful, and they will wish to avoid the weakness
which comes to a ministry from changing its team. Good-bye, my dear fellow; and remember this,--my
last word of advice to you is to stick by the ship. I am quite sure it is a career which will
suit you. I did not begin it soon enough."

Phineas was rather melancholy as he returned alone to Killaloe. It was all very well to bid
him stick to the ship, and he knew as well as any one could tell him how material the ship
was to him; but there are circumstances in which a man cannot stick to his ship,--cannot stick,
at least, to this special Government ship. He knew that whither Mr. Monk went, in this session,
he must follow. He had considerable hope that when Mr. Monk explained his purpose to the Prime
Minister, the Prime Minister would feel himself obliged to give way. In that case Phineas would
not only be able to keep his office, but would have such an opportunity of making a speech
in Parliament as circumstances had never yet given to him. When he was again at home he said
nothing to his father or to the Killaloeians as to the danger of his position. Of what use
would it be to make his mother and sisters miserable, or to incur the useless counsels of the
doctor? They seemed to think his speech at Dublin very fine, and were never tired of talking
of what Mr. Monk and Phineas were going to do; but the idea had not come home to them that
if Mr. Monk or Phineas chose to do anything on their own account, they must give up the places
which they held under the Crown.

It was September when Phineas found himself back at Killaloe, and he was due to be at his office
in London in November. The excitement of Mr. Monk's company was now over, and he had nothing
to do but to receive pouches full of official papers from the Colonial Office, and study all
the statistics which came within his reach in reference to the proposed new law for tenant-right.
In the meantime Mary was still living with her mother at Killaloe, and still kept herself somewhat
aloof from the man she loved. How could it be possible for him not to give way in such circumstances
as those?

One day he found himself talking to her about himself, and speaking to her of his own position
with more frankness than he ever used with his own family. He had begun by reminding her of
that conversation which they had had before he went away with Mr. Monk, and by reminding her
also that she had promised to return to her old friendly ways with him.

"Nay, Phineas; there was no promise," she said.

"And are we not to be friends?"

"I only say that I made no particular promise. Of course we are friends. We have always been
friends."

"What would you say if you heard that I had resigned my office and given up my seat?" he asked.
Of course she expressed her surprise, almost her horror, at such an idea, and then he told
her everything. It took long in the telling, because it was necessary that he should explain
to her the working of the system which made it impossible for him, as a member of the Government,
to entertain an opinion of his own.

"And do you mean that you would lose your salary?" she asked.

"Certainly I should."

"Would not that be very dreadful?"

He laughed as he acknowledged that it would be dreadful. "It is very dreadful, Mary, to have
nothing to eat and drink. But what is a man to do? Would you recommend me to say that black
is white?"

"I am sure you will never do that."

"You see, Mary, it is very nice to be called by a big name and to have a salary, and it is
very comfortable to be envied by one's friends and enemies;--but there are drawbacks. There
is this especial drawback." Then he paused for a moment before he went on.

"What especial drawback, Phineas?"

"A man cannot do what he pleases with himself. How can a man marry, so circumstanced as I am?"

She hesitated for a moment, and then she answered him,--"A man may be very happy without marrying,
I suppose."

He also paused for many moments before he spoke again, and she then made a faint attempt to
escape from him. But before she succeeded he had asked her a question which arrested her. "I
wonder whether you would listen to me if I were to tell you a history?" Of course she listened,
and the history he told her was the tale of his love for Violet Effingham.

"And she has money of her own?" Mary asked.

"Yes;--she is rich. She has a large fortune."

"Then, Mr. Finn, you must seek some one else who is equally blessed."

"Mary, that is untrue,--that is ill-natured. You do not mean that. Say that you do not mean
it. You have not believed that I loved Miss Effingham because she was rich."

"But you have told me that you could love no one who is not rich."

"I have said nothing of the kind. Love is involuntary. It does not often run in a yoke with
prudence. I have told you my history as far as it is concerned with Violet Effingham. I did
love her very dearly."

"Did love her, Mr. Finn?"

"Yes;--did love her. Is there any inconstancy in ceasing to love when one is not loved? Is
there inconstancy in changing one's love, and in loving again?"

"I do not know," said Mary, to whom the occasion was becoming so embarrassing that she no longer
was able to reply with words that had a meaning in them.

"If there be, dear, I am inconstant." He paused, but of course she had not a syllable to say.
"I have changed my love. But I could not speak of a new passion till I had told the story of
that which has passed away. You have heard it all now, Mary. Can you try to love me, after
that?" It had come at last,--the thing for which she had been ever wishing. It had come in
spite of her imprudence, and in spite of her prudence. When she had heard him to the end she
was not a whit angry with him,--she was not in the least aggrieved,--because he had been lost
to her in his love for this Miss Effingham, while she had been so nearly lost by her love for
him. For women such episodes in the lives of their lovers have an excitement which is almost
pleasurable, whereas each man is anxious to hear his lady swear that until he appeared upon
the scene her heart had been fancy free. Mary, upon the whole, had liked the story,--had thought
that it had been finely told, and was well pleased with the final catastrophe. But, nevertheless,
she was not prepared with her reply. "Have you no answer to give me, Mary?" he said, looking
up into her eyes. I am afraid that he did not doubt what would be her answer,--as it would
be good that all lovers should do. "You must vouchsafe me some word, Mary."

When she essayed to speak she found that she was dumb. She could not get her voice to give
her the assistance of a single word. She did not cry, but there was a motion as of sobbing
in her throat which impeded all utterance. She was as happy as earth,--as heaven could make
her; but she did not know how to tell him that she was happy. And yet she longed to tell it,
that he might know how thankful she was to him for his goodness. He still sat looking at her,
and now by degrees he had got her hand in his. "Mary," he said, "will you be my wife,--my own
wife?"

When half an hour had passed, they were still together, and now she had found the use of her
tongue. "Do whatever you like best," she said. "I do not care which you do. If you came to
me to-morrow and told me you had no income, it would make no difference. Though to love you
and to have your love is all the world to me,--though it makes all the difference between misery
and happiness,--I would sooner give up that than be a clog on you." Then he took her in his
arms and kissed her. "Oh, Phineas!" she said, "I do love you so entirely!"

"My own one!"

"Yes; your own one. But if you had known it always! Never mind. Now you are my own,--are you not?"

"Indeed yes, dearest."

"Oh, what a thing it is to be victorious at last."

"What on earth are you two doing here these two hours together?" said Barbara, bursting into
the room.

"What are we doing?" said Phineas.

"Yes;--what are you doing?"

"Nothing in particular," said Mary.

"Nothing at all in particular," said Phineas. "Only this,--that we have engaged ourselves to
marry each other. It is quite a trifle,--is it not, Mary?"

"Oh, Barbara!" said the joyful girl, springing forward into her friend's arms; "I do believe
I am the happiest creature on the face of this earth!"

CHAPTER LXVII

Job's Comforters

Before Phineas had returned to London his engagement with Mary Flood Jones was known to all
his family, was known to Mrs. Flood Jones, and was indeed known generally to all Killaloe.
That other secret of his, which had reference to the probability of his being obliged to throw
up his office, was known only to Mary herself. He thought that he had done all that honour
required of him in telling her of his position before he had proposed;--so that she might on
that ground refuse him if she were so minded. And yet he had known very well that such prudence
on her part was not to be expected. If she loved him, of course she would say so when she was
asked. And he had known that she loved him. "There may be delay, Mary," he said to her as he
was going; "nay, there must be delay, if I am obliged to resign."

"I do not care a straw for delay if you will be true to me," she said.

"Do you doubt my truth, dearest?"

"Not in the least. I will swear by it as the one thing that is truest in the world."

"You may, dearest. And if this should come to pass I must go to work and put my shoulder to
the wheel, and earn an income for you by my old profession before I can make you my wife. With
such a motive before me I know that I shall earn an income." And thus they parted. Mary, though
of course she would have preferred that her future husband should remain in his high office,
that he should be a member of Parliament and an Under-Secretary of State, admitted no doubt
into her mind to disturb her happiness; and Phineas, though he had many misgivings as to the
prudence of what he had done, was not the less strong in his resolution of constancy and endurance.
He would throw up his position, resign his seat, and go to work at the Bar instantly, if he
found that his independence as a man required him to do so. And, above all, let come what might,
he would be true to Mary Flood Jones.

December was half over before he saw Lord Cantrip. "Yes,--yes;" said Lord Cantrip, when the
Under-Secretary began to tell his story; "I saw what you were about. I wish I had been at your
elbow."

"If you knew the country as I know it, you would be as eager about it as I am."

"Then I can only say that I am very glad that I do not know the country as you know it. You
see, Finn, it's my idea that if a man wants to make himself useful he should stick to some
special kind of work. With you it's a thousand pities that you should not do so."

"You think, then, I ought to resign?"

"I don't say anything about that. As you wish it, of course I'll speak to Gresham. Monk, I
believe, has resigned already."

"He has written to me, and told me so," said Phineas.

"I always felt afraid of him for your sake, Finn. Mr. Monk is a clever man, and as honest a
man as any in the House, but I always thought that he was a dangerous friend for you. However,
we will see. I will speak to Gresham after Christmas. There is no hurry about it."

When Parliament met the first great subject of interest was the desertion of Mr. Monk from
the Ministry. He at once took his place below the gangway, sitting as it happened exactly in
front of Mr. Turnbull, and there he made his explanation. Some one opposite asked a question
whether a certain right honourable gentleman had not left the Cabinet. Then Mr. Gresham replied
that to his infinite regret his right honourable friend, who lately presided at the Board of
Trade, had resigned; and he went on to explain that this resignation had, according to his
ideas, been quite unnecessary. His right honourable friend entertained certain ideas about
Irish tenant-right, as to which he himself and his right honourable friend the Secretary for
Ireland could not exactly pledge themselves to be in unison with him; but he had thought that
the motion might have rested at any rate over this session. Then Mr. Monk explained, making
his first great speech on Irish tenant-right. He found himself obliged to advocate some immediate
measure for giving security to the Irish farmer; and as he could not do so as a member of the
Cabinet, he was forced to resign the honour of that position. He said something also as to
the great doubt which had ever weighed on his own mind as to the inexpediency of a man at his
time of life submitting himself for the first time to the trammels of office. This called up
Mr. Turnbull, who took the opportunity of saying that he now agreed cordially with his old
friend for the first time since that old friend had listened to the blandishments of the ministerial
seducer, and that he welcomed his old friend back to those independent benches with great satisfaction.
In this way the debate was very exciting. Nothing was said which made it then necessary for
Phineas to get upon his legs or to declare himself; but he perceived that the time would rapidly
come in which he must do so. Mr. Gresham, though he strove to speak with gentle words, was
evidently very angry with the late President of the Board of Trade; and, moreover, it was quite
clear that a bill would be introduced by Mr. Monk himself, which Mr. Gresham was determined
to oppose. If all this came to pass and there should be a close division, Phineas felt that
his fate would be sealed. When he again spoke to Lord Cantrip on the subject, the Secretary
of State shrugged his shoulders and shook his head. "I can only advise you," said Lord Cantrip,
"to forget all that took place in Ireland. If you will do so, nobody else will remember it."
"As if it were possible to forget such things," he said in the letter which he wrote to Mary
that night. "Of course I shall go now. If it were not for your sake, I should not in the least
regret it."

He had been with Madame Goesler frequently in the winter, and had discussed with her so often
the question of his official position that she had declared that she was coming at last to
understand the mysteries of an English Cabinet. "I think you are quite right, my friend," she
said,--"quite right. What--you are to be in Parliament and say that this black thing is white,
or that this white thing is black, because you like to take your salary! That cannot be honest!"
Then, when he came to talk to her of money,--that he must give up Parliament itself, if he
gave up his place,--she offered to lend him money. "Why should you not treat me as a friend?"
she said. When he pointed out to her that there would never come a time in which he could pay
such money back, she stamped her foot and told him that he had better leave her. "You have
high principle," she said, "but not principle sufficiently high to understand that this thing
could be done between you and me without disgrace to either of us." Then Phineas assured her
with tears in his eyes that such an arrangement was impossible without disgrace to him.

But he whispered to this new friend no word of the engagement with his dear Irish Mary. His
Irish life, he would tell himself, was a thing quite apart and separate from his life in England.
He said not a word about Mary Flood Jones to any of those with whom he lived in London. Why
should he, feeling as he did that it would so soon be necessary that he should disappear from
among them? About Miss Effingham he had said much to Madame Goesler. She had asked him whether
he had abandoned all hope. "That affair, then, is over?" she had said.

"Yes;--it is all over now."

"And she will marry the red-headed, violent lord?"

"Heaven knows. I think she will. But she is exactly the girl to remain unmarried if she takes
it into her head that the man she likes is in any way unfitted for her."

"Does she love this lord?"

"Oh yes;--there is no doubt of that." And Phineas, as he made this acknowledgment, seemed to
do so without much inward agony of soul. When he had been last in London he could not speak
of Violet and Lord Chiltern together without showing that his misery was almost too much for him.

At this time he received some counsel from two friends. One was Laurence Fitzgibbon, and the
other was Barrington Erle. Laurence had always been true to him after a fashion, and had never
resented his intrusion at the Colonial Office. "Phineas, me boy," he said, "if all this is
thrue, you're about up a tree."

"It is true that I shall support Monk's motion."

"Then, me boy, you're up a tree as far as office goes. A place like that niver suited me, because,
you see, that poker of a young lord expected so much of a man; but you don't mind that kind
of thing, and I thought you were as snug as snug."

"Troubles will come, you see, Laurence."

"Bedad, yes. It's all throubles, I think, sometimes. But you've a way out of all your throubles."

"What way?"

"Pop the question to Madame Max. The money's all thrue, you know."

"I don't doubt the money in the least," said Phineas.

"And it's my belief she'll take you without a second word. Anyways, thry it, Phinny, my boy.
That's my advice." Phineas so far agreed with his friend Laurence that he thought it possible
that Madame Goesler might accept him were he to propose marriage to her. He knew, of course,
that that mode of escape from his difficulties was out of the question for him, but he could
not explain this to Laurence Fitzgibbon.

"I am sorry to hear that you have taken up a bad cause," said Barrington Erle to him.

"It is a pity;--is it not?"

"And the worst of it is that you'll sacrifice yourself and do no good to the cause. I never
knew a man break away in this fashion, and not feel afterwards that he had done it all for
nothing."

"But what is a man to do, Barrington? He can't smother his convictions."

"Convictions! There is nothing on earth that I'm so much afraid of in a young member of Parliament
as convictions. There are ever so many rocks against which men get broken. One man can't keep
his temper. Another can't hold his tongue. A third can't say a word unless he has been priming
himself half a session. A fourth is always thinking of himself, and wanting more than he can
get. A fifth is idle, and won't be there when he's wanted. A sixth is always in the way. A
seventh lies so that you never can trust him. I've had to do with them all, but a fellow with
convictions is the worst of all."

"I don't see how a fellow is to help himself," said Phineas. "When a fellow begins to meddle
with politics they will come."

"Why can't you grow into them gradually as your betters and elders have done before you? It
ought to be enough for any man, when he begins, to know that he's a Liberal. He understands
which side of the House he's to vote, and who is to lead him. What's the meaning of having
a leader to a party, if it's not that? Do you think that you and Mr. Monk can go and make a
government between you?"

"Whatever I think, I'm sure he doesn't."

"I'm not so sure of that. But look here, Phineas, I don't care two straws about Monk's going.
I always thought that Mildmay and the Duke were wrong when they asked him to join. I knew he'd
go over the traces,--unless, indeed, he took his money and did nothing for it, which is the
way with some of those Radicals. I look upon him as gone."

"He has gone."

"The devil go along with him, as you say in Ireland. But don't you be such a fool as to ruin
yourself for a crotchet of Monk's. It isn't too late yet for you to hold back. To tell you
the truth, Gresham has said a word to me about it already. He is most anxious that you should
stay, but of course you can't stay and vote against us."

"Of course I cannot."

"I look upon you, you know, as in some sort my own child. I've tried to bring other fellows
forward who seemed to have something in them, but I have never succeeded as I have with you.
You've hit the thing off, and have got the ball at your foot. Upon my honour, in the whole
course of my experience I have never known such good fortune as yours."

"And I shall always remember how it began, Barrington," said Phineas, who was greatly moved
by the energy and solicitude of his friend.

"But, for God's sake, don't go and destroy it all by such mad perversity as this. They mean
to do something next session. Morrison is going to take it up." Sir Walter Morrison was at
this time Secretary for Ireland. "But of course we can't let a fellow like Monk take the matter
into his own hands just when he pleases. I call it d----d treachery."

"Monk is no traitor, Barrington."

"Men will have their own opinions about that. It's generally understood that when a man is
asked to take a seat in the Cabinet he is expected to conform with his colleagues, unless something
very special turns up. But I am speaking of you now, and not of Monk. You are not a man of
fortune. You cannot afford to make ducks and drakes. You are excellently placed, and you have
plenty of time to hark back, if you'll only listen to reason. All that Irish stump balderdash
will never be thrown in your teeth by us, if you will just go on as though it had never been
uttered."

Phineas could only thank his friend for his advice, which was at least disinterested, and was
good of its kind, and tell him that he would think of it. He did think of it very much. He
almost thought that, were it to do again, he would allow Mr. Monk to go upon his tour alone,
and keep himself from the utterance of anything that so good a judge as Erle could call stump
balderdash. As he sat in his arm-chair in his room at the Colonial Office, with despatch-boxes
around him, and official papers spread before him,--feeling himself to be one of those who
in truth managed and governed the affairs of this great nation, feeling also that if he relinquished
his post now he could never regain it,--he did wish that he had been a little less in love
with independence, a little quieter in his boastings that no official considerations should
ever silence his tongue. But all this was too late now. He knew that his skin was not thick
enough to bear the arrows of those archers who would bend their bows against him if he should
now dare to vote against Mr. Monk's motion. His own party might be willing to forgive and forget;
but there would be others who would read those reports, and would appear in the House with
the odious tell-tale newspapers in their hands.

Then he received a letter from his father. Some good-natured person had enlightened the doctor
as to the danger in which his son was placing himself. Dr. Finn, who in his own profession
was a very excellent and well-instructed man, had been so ignorant of Parliamentary tactics,
as to have been proud at his son's success at the Irish meetings. He had thought that Phineas
was carrying on his trade as a public speaker with proper energy and continued success. He
had cared nothing himself for tenant-right, and had acknowledged to Mr. Monk that he could
not understand in what it was that the farmers were wronged. But he knew that Mr. Monk was
a Cabinet Minister, and he thought that Phineas was earning his salary. Then there came some
one who undeceived him, and the paternal bosom of the doctor was dismayed. "I don't mean to
interfere," he said in his letter, "but I can hardly believe that you really intend to resign
your place. Yet I am told that you must do so if you go on with this matter. My dear boy, pray
think about it. I cannot imagine you are disposed to lose all that you have won for nothing."
Mary also wrote to him. Mrs. Finn had been talking to her, and Mary had taught herself to believe
that after the many sweet conversations she had had with a man so high in office as Phineas,
she really did understand something about the British Government. Mrs. Finn had interrogated
Mary, and Mary had been obliged to own that it was quite possible that Phineas would be called
upon to resign.

"But why, my dear? Heaven and earth! Resign two thousand a year!"

"That he may maintain his independence," said Mary proudly.

"Fiddlestick!" said Mrs. Finn. "How is he to maintain you, or himself either, if he goes on
in that way? I shouldn't wonder if he didn't get himself all wrong, even now." Then Mrs. Finn
began to cry; and Mary could only write to her lover, pointing out to him how very anxious
all his friends were that he should do nothing in a hurry. But what if the thing were done
already! Phineas in his great discomfort went to seek further counsel from Madame Goesler.
Of all his counsellors, Madame Goesler was the only one who applauded him for what he was about
to do.

"But, after all, what is it you give up? Mr. Gresham may be out to-morrow, and then where will
be your place?"

"There does not seem to be much chance of that at present."

"Who can tell? Of course I do not understand,--but it was only the other day when Mr. Mildmay
was there, and only the day before that when Lord de Terrier was there, and again only the
day before that when Lord Brock was there." Phineas endeavoured to make her understand that
of the four Prime Ministers whom she had named, three were men of the same party as himself,
under whom it would have suited him to serve. "I would not serve under any man if I were an
English gentleman in Parliament," said Madame Goesler.

"What is a poor fellow to do?" said Phineas, laughing.

"A poor fellow need not be a poor fellow unless he likes," said Madame Goesler. Immediately
after this Phineas left her, and as he went along the street he began to question himself whether
the prospects of his own darling Mary were at all endangered by his visits to Park Lane; and
to reflect what sort of a blackguard he would be,--a blackguard of how deep a dye,--were he
to desert Mary and marry Madame Max Goesler. Then he also asked himself as to the nature and
quality of his own political honesty if he were to abandon Mary in order that he might maintain
his parliamentary independence. After all, if it should ever come to pass that his biography
should be written, his biographer would say very much more about the manner in which he kept
his seat in Parliament than of the manner in which he kept his engagement with Miss Mary Flood
Jones. Half a dozen people who knew him and her might think ill of him for his conduct to Mary,
but the world would not condemn him! And when he thundered forth his liberal eloquence from
below the gangway as an independent member, having the fortune of his charming wife to back
him, giving excellent dinners at the same time in Park Lane, would not the world praise him
very loudly?

When he got to his office he found a note from Lord Brentford inviting him to dine in Portman
Square.

CHAPTER LXVIII

The Joint Attack

The note from Lord Brentford surprised our hero not a little. He had had no communication with
the Earl since the day on which he had been so savagely scolded about the duel, when the Earl
had plainly told him that his conduct had been as bad as it could be. Phineas had not on that
account become at all ashamed of his conduct in reference to the duel, but he had conceived
that any reconciliation between him and the Earl had been out of the question. Now there had
come a civilly-worded invitation, asking him to dine with the offended nobleman. The note had
been written by Lady Laura, but it had purported to come from Lord Brentford himself. He sent
back word to say that he should be happy to have the honour of dining with Lord Brentford.

Parliament at this time had been sitting nearly a month, and it was already March. Phineas
had heard nothing of Lady Laura, and did not even know that she was in London till he saw her
handwriting. He did not know that she had not gone back to her husband, and that she had remained
with her father all the winter at Saulsby. He had also heard that Lord Chiltern had been at
Saulsby. All the world had been talking of the separation of Mr. Kennedy from his wife, one
half of the world declaring that his wife, if not absolutely false to him, had neglected all
her duties; and the other half asserting that Mr. Kennedy's treatment of his wife had been
so bad that no woman could possibly have lived with him. There had even been a rumour that
Lady Laura had gone off with a lover from the Duke of Omnium's garden party, and some indiscreet
tongue had hinted that a certain unmarried Under-Secretary of State was missing at the same
time. But Lord Chiltern upon this had shown his teeth with so strong a propensity to do some
real biting, that no one had ventured to repeat that rumour. Its untruth was soon established
by the fact that Lady Laura Kennedy was living with her father at Saulsby. Of Mr. Kennedy,
Phineas had as yet seen nothing since he had been up in town. That gentleman, though a member
of the Cabinet, had not been in London at the opening of the session, nor had he attended the
Cabinet meetings during the recess. It had been stated in the newspapers that he was ill, and
stated in private that he could not bear to show himself since his wife had left him. At last,
however, he came to London, and Phineas saw him in the House. Then, when the first meeting
of the Cabinet was summoned after his return, it became known that he also had resigned his
office. There was nothing said about his resignation in the House. He had resigned on the score
of ill-health, and that very worthy peer, Lord Mount Thistle, formerly Sir Marmaduke Morecombe,
came back to the Duchy of Lancaster in his place. A Prime Minister sometimes finds great relief
in the possession of a serviceable stick who can be made to go in and out as occasion may require;
only it generally happens that the stick will expect some reward when he is made to go out.
Lord Mount Thistle immediately saw his way to a viscount's coronet, when he was once more summoned
to the august councils of the Ministers.

A few days after this had been arranged, in the interval between Lord Brentford's invitation
and Lord Brentford's dinner, Phineas encountered Mr. Kennedy so closely in one of the passages
of the House that it was impossible that they should not speak to each other, unless they were
to avoid each other as people do who have palpably quarrelled. Phineas saw that Mr. Kennedy
was hesitating, and therefore took the bull by the horns. He greeted his former friend in a
friendly fashion, shaking him by the hand, and then prepared to pass on. But Mr. Kennedy, though
he had hesitated at first, now detained his brother member. "Finn," he said, "if you are not
engaged I should like to speak to you for a moment." Phineas was not engaged, and allowed himself
to be led out arm-in-arm by the late Chancellor of the Duchy into Westminster Hall. "Of course
you know what a terrible thing has happened to me," said Mr. Kennedy.

"Yes;--I have heard of it," said Phineas.

"Everybody has heard of it. That is one of the terrible cruelties of such a blow."

"All those things are very bad of course. I was very much grieved,--because you have both been
intimate friends of mine."

"Yes,--yes; we were. Do you ever see her now?"

"Not since last July,--at the Duke's party, you know."

"Ah, yes; the morning of that day was the last on which I spoke to her. It was then she left me."

"I am going to dine with Lord Brentford to-morrow, and I dare say she will be there."

"Yes;--she is in town. I saw her yesterday in her father's carriage. I think that she had no
cause to leave me."

"Of course I cannot say anything about that."

"I think she had no cause to leave me." Phineas as he heard this could not but remember all
that Lady Laura had told himself, and thought that no woman had ever had a better reason for
leaving her husband. "There were things I did not like, and I said so."

"I suppose that is generally the way," replied Phineas.

"But surely a wife should listen to a word of caution from her husband."

"I fancy they never like it," said Phineas.

"But are we all of us to have all that we like? I have not found it so. Or would it be good
for us if we had?" Then he paused; but as Phineas had no further remark to make, he continued
speaking after they had walked about a third of the length of the hall. "It is not of my own
comfort I am thinking now so much as of her name and her future conduct. Of course it will
in every sense be best for her that she should come back to her husband's roof."

"Well; yes;--perhaps it would," said Phineas.

"Has she not accepted that lot for better or for worse?" said Mr. Kennedy, solemnly.

"But incompatibility of temper, you know, is always,--always supposed--. You understand me?"

"It is my intention that she should come back to me. I do not wish to make any legal demand;--at
any rate, not as yet. Will you consent to be the bearer of a message from me both to herself
and to the Earl?"

Now it seemed to Phineas that of all the messengers whom Mr. Kennedy could have chosen he was
the most unsuited to be a Mercury in this cause,--not perceiving that he had been so selected
with some craft, in order that Lady Laura might understand that the accusation against her
was, at any rate, withdrawn, which had named Phineas as her lover. He paused again before he
answered. "Of course," he said, "I should be most willing to be of service, if it were possible.
But I do not see how I can speak to the Earl about it. Though I am going to dine with him I
don't know why he has asked me;--for he and I are on very bad terms. He heard that stupid story
about the duel, and has not spoken to me since."

"I heard that, too," said Mr. Kennedy, frowning blackly as he remembered his wife's duplicity.

"Everybody heard of it. But it has made such a difference between him and me, that I don't
think I can meddle. Send for Lord Chiltern, and speak to him."

"Speak to Chiltern! Never! He would probably strike me on the head with his club."

"Call on the Earl yourself."

"I did, and he would not see me."

"Write to him."

"I did, and he sent back my letter unopened."

"Write to her."

"I did;--and she answered me, saying only thus; 'Indeed, indeed, it cannot be so.' But it must
be so. The laws of God require it, and the laws of man permit it. I want some one to point
out that to them more softly than I could do if I were simply to write to that effect. To the
Earl, of course, I cannot write again." The conference ended by a promise from Phineas that
he would, if possible, say a word to Lady Laura.

When he was shown into Lord Brentford's drawing-room he found not only Lady Laura there, but
her brother. Lord Brentford was not in the room. Barrington Erle was there, and so also were
Lord and Lady Cantrip.

"Is not your father going to be here?" he said to Lady Laura, after their first greeting.

"We live in that hope," said she, "and do not at all know why he should be late. What has become
of him, Oswald?"

"He came in with me half an hour ago, and I suppose he does not dress as quickly as I do,"
said Lord Chiltern; upon which Phineas immediately understood that the father and the son were
reconciled, and he rushed to the conclusion that Violet and her lover would also soon be reconciled,
if such were not already the case. He felt some remnant of a soreness that it should be so,
as a man feels where his headache has been when the real ache itself has left him. Then the
host came in and made his apologies. "Chiltern kept me standing about," he said, "till the
east wind had chilled me through and through. The only charm I recognise in youth is that it
is impervious to the east wind." Phineas felt quite sure now that Violet and her lover were
reconciled, and he had a distinct feeling of the place where the ache had been. Dear Violet!
But, after all, Violet lacked that sweet, clinging, feminine softness which made Mary Flood
Jones so pre-eminently the most charming of her sex. The Earl, when he had repeated his general
apology, especially to Lady Cantrip, who was the only lady present except his daughter, came
up to our hero and shook him kindly by the hand. He took him up to one of the windows and then
addressed him in a voice of mock solemnity.

"Stick to the colonies, young man," he said, "and never meddle with foreign affairs;--especially
not at Blankenberg."

"Never again, my Lord;--never again."

"And leave all questions of fire-arms to be arranged between the Horse Guards and the War Office.
I have heard a good deal about it since I saw you, and I retract a part of what I said. But
a duel is a foolish thing,--a very foolish thing. Come;--here is dinner." And the Earl walked
off with Lady Cantrip, and Lord Cantrip walked off with Lady Laura. Barrington Erle followed,
and Phineas had an opportunity of saying a word to his friend, Lord Chiltern, as they went
down together.

"It's all right between you and your father?"

"Yes;--after a fashion. There is no knowing how long it will last. He wants me to do three
things, and I won't do any one of them."

"What are the three?"

"To go into Parliament, to be an owner of sheep and oxen, and to hunt in his own county. I
should never attend the first, I should ruin myself with the second, and I should never get
a run in the third." But there was not a word said about his marriage.

There were only seven who sat down to dinner, and the six were all people with whom Phineas
was or had been on most intimate terms. Lord Cantrip was his official chief, and, since that
connection had existed between them, Lady Cantrip had been very gracious to him. She quite
understood the comfort which it was to her husband to have under him, as his representative
in the House of Commons, a man whom he could thoroughly trust and like, and therefore she had
used her woman's arts to bind Phineas to her lord in more than mere official bondage. She had
tried her skill also upon Laurence Fitzgibbon,--but altogether in vain. He had eaten her dinners
and accepted her courtesies, and had given for them no return whatever. But Phineas had possessed
a more grateful mind, and had done all that had been required of him;--had done all that had
been required of him till there had come that terrible absurdity in Ireland. "I knew very well
what sort of things would happen when they brought such a man as Mr. Monk into the Cabinet,"
Lady Cantrip had said to her husband.

But though the party was very small, and though the guests were all his intimate friends, Phineas
suspected nothing special till an attack was made upon him as soon as the servants had left
the room. This was done in the presence of the two ladies, and, no doubt, had been preconcerted.
There was Lord Cantrip there, who had already said much to him, and Barrington Erle who had
said more even than Lord Cantrip. Lord Brentford, himself a member of the Cabinet, opened the
attack by asking whether it was actually true that Mr. Monk meant to go on with his motion.
Barrington Erle asserted that Mr. Monk positively would do so. "And Gresham will oppose it?"
asked the Earl. "Of course he will," said Barrington. "Of course he will," said Lord Cantrip.
"I know what I should think of him if he did not," said Lady Cantrip. "He is the last man in
the world to be forced into a thing," said Lady Laura. Then Phineas knew pretty well what was
coming on him.

Lord Brentford began again by asking how many supporters Mr. Monk would have in the House.
"That depends upon the amount of courage which the Conservatives may have," said Barrington
Erle. "If they dare to vote for a thoroughly democratic measure, simply for the sake of turning
us out, it is quite on the cards that they may succeed." "But of our own people?" asked Lord
Cantrip. "You had better inquire that of Phineas Finn," said Barrington. And then the attack
was made.

Our hero had a bad half hour of it, though many words were said which must have gratified him
much. They all wanted to keep him,--so Lord Cantrip declared, "except one or two whom I could
name, and who are particularly anxious to wear his shoes," said Barrington, thinking that certain
reminiscences of Phineas with regard to Mr. Bonteen and others might operate as strongly as
any other consideration to make him love his place. Lord Brentford declared that he could not
understand it,--that he should find himself lost in amazement if such a man as his young friend
allowed himself to be led into the outer wilderness by such an ignis-fatuus of light as this.
Lord Cantrip laid down the unwritten traditional law of Government officials very plainly.
A man in office,--in an office which really imposed upon him as much work as he could possibly
do with credit to himself or his cause,--was dispensed from the necessity of a conscience with
reference to other matters. It was for Sir Walter Morrison to have a conscience about Irish
tenant-right, as no doubt he had,--just as Phineas Finn had a conscience about Canada, and
Jamaica, and the Cape. Barrington Erle was very strong about parties in general, and painted
the comforts of official position in glowing colours. But I think that the two ladies were
more efficacious than even their male relatives in the arguments which they used. "We have
been so happy to have you among us," said Lady Cantrip, looking at him with beseeching, almost
loving eyes. "Mr. Finn knows," said Lady Laura, "that since he first came into Parliament I
have always believed in his success, and I have been very proud to see it." "We shall weep
over him, as over a fallen angel, if he leaves us," said Lady Cantrip. "I won't say that I
will weep," said Lady Laura, "but I do not know anything of the kind that would so truly make
me unhappy."

What was he to say in answer to applications so flattering and so pressing? He would have said
nothing, had that been possible, but he felt himself obliged to reply. He replied very weakly,--of
course, not justifying himself, but declaring that as he had gone so far he must go further.
He must vote for the measure now. Both his chief and Barrington Erle proved, or attempted to
prove, that he was wrong in this. Of course he would not speak on the measure, and his vote
for his party would probably be allowed to pass without notice. One or two newspapers might
perhaps attack him; but what public man cared for such attacks as those? His whole party would
hang by him, and in that he would find ample consolation. Phineas could only say that he would
think of it;--and this he said in so irresolute a tone of voice that all the men then present
believed that he was gained. The two ladies, however, were of a different opinion. "In spite
of anything that anybody may say, he will do what he thinks right when the time comes," said
Laura to her father afterwards. But then Lady Laura had been in love with him,--was perhaps
almost in love with him still. "I'm afraid he is a mule," said Lady Cantrip to her husband.
"He's a good mule up a hill with a load on his back," said his lordship. "But with a mule there
always comes a time when you can't manage him," said Lady Cantrip. But Lady Cantrip had never
been in love with Phineas.

Phineas found a moment, before he left Lord Brentford's house, to say a word to Lady Laura
as to the commission that had been given to him. "It can never be," said Lady Laura, shuddering;--"never,
never, never!"

"You are not angry with me for speaking?"

"Oh, no--not if he told you."

"He made me promise that I would."

"Tell him it cannot be. Tell him that if he has any instruction to send me as to what he considers
to be my duty, I will endeavour to comply, if that duty can be done apart. I will recognize
him so far, because of my vow. But not even for the sake of my vow, will I endeavour to live
with him. His presence would kill me!"

When Phineas repeated this, or as much of this as he judged to be necessary, to Mr. Kennedy
a day or two afterwards, that gentleman replied that in such case he would have no alternative
but to seek redress at law. "I have done nothing to my wife," said he, "of which I need be
ashamed. It will be sad, no doubt, to have all our affairs bandied about in court, and made
the subject of comment in newspapers, but a man must go through that, or worse than that, in
the vindication of his rights, and for the performance of his duty to his Maker." That very
day Mr. Kennedy went to his lawyer, and desired that steps might be taken for the restitution
to him of his conjugal rights.

CHAPTER LXIX

The Temptress

Mr. Monk's bill was read the first time before Easter, and Phineas Finn still held his office.
He had spoken to the Prime Minister once on the subject, and had been surprised at that gentleman's
courtesy;--for Mr. Gresham had the reputation of being unconciliatory in his manners, and very
prone to resent anything like desertion from that allegiance which was due to himself as the
leader of his party. "You had better stay where you are and take no step that may be irretrievable,
till you have quite made up your mind," said Mr. Gresham.

"I fear I have made up my mind," said Phineas.

"Nothing can be done till after Easter," replied the great man, "and there is no knowing how
things may go then. I strongly recommend you to stay with us. If you can do this it will be
only necessary that you shall put your resignation in Lord Cantrip's hands before you speak
or vote against us. See Monk and talk it over with him." Mr. Gresham possibly imagined that
Mr. Monk might be moved to abandon his bill, when he saw what injury he was about to do.

At this time Phineas received the following letter from his darling Mary:--

   Floodborough, Thursday.

   DEAREST PHINEAS,

   We have just got home from Killaloe, and mean to remain
   here all through the summer. After leaving your sisters
   this house seems so desolate; but I shall have the more
   time to think of you. I have been reading Tennyson, as you
   told me, and I fancy that I could in truth be a Mariana
   here, if it were not that I am so quite certain that you
   will come;--and that makes all the difference in the world
   in a moated grange. Last night I sat at the window and
   tried to realise what I should feel if you were to tell me
   that you did not want me; and I got myself into such an
   ecstatic state of mock melancholy that I cried for half an
   hour. But when one has such a real living joy at the back
   of one's romantic melancholy, tears are very pleasant;--
   they water and do not burn.

   I must tell you about them all at Killaloe. They certainly
   are very unhappy at the idea of your resigning. Your
   father says very little, but I made him own that to act
   as you are acting for the sake of principle is very grand.
   I would not leave him till he had said so, and he did say
   it. Dear Mrs. Finn does not understand it as well, but
   she will do so. She complains mostly for my sake, and
   when I tell her that I will wait twenty years if it is
   necessary, she tells me I do not know what waiting means.
   But I will,--and will be happy, and will never really
   think myself a Mariana. Dear, dear, dear Phineas, indeed
   I won't. The girls are half sad and half proud. But I am
   wholly proud, and know that you are doing just what you
   ought to do. I shall think more of you as a man who might
   have been a Prime Minister than if you were really sitting
   in the Cabinet like Lord Cantrip. As for mamma, I cannot
   make her quite understand it. She merely says that no
   young man who is going to be married ought to resign
   anything. Dear mamma;--sometimes she does say such odd
   things.

   You told me to tell you everything, and so I have. I
   talk to some of the people here, and tell them what they
   might do if they had tenant-right. One old fellow, Mike
   Dufferty,--I don't know whether you remember him,--asked
   if he would have to pay the rent all the same. When I said
   certainly he would, then he shook his head. But as you
   said once, when we want to do good to people one has no
   right to expect that they should understand it. It is like
   baptizing little infants.

   I got both your notes;--seven words in one, Mr.
   Under-Secretary, and nine in the other! But the one little
   word at the end was worth a whole sheet full of common
   words. How nice it is to write letters without paying
   postage, and to send them about the world with a grand
   name in the corner. When Barney brings me one he always
   looks as if he didn't know whether it was a love letter
   or an order to go to Botany Bay. If he saw the inside of
   them, how short they are, I don't think he'd think much of
   you as a lover nor yet as an Under-Secretary.

   But I think ever so much of you as both;--I do, indeed;
   and I am not scolding you a bit. As long as I can have two
   or three dear, sweet, loving words, I shall be as happy as
   a queen. Ah, if you knew it all! But you never can know
   it all. A man has so many other things to learn that he
   cannot understand it.

   Good-bye, dear, dear, dearest man. Whatever you do I shall
   be quite sure you have done the best.

   Ever your own, with all the love of her heart,

   MARY F. JONES.

This was very nice. Such a man as was Phineas Finn always takes a delight which he cannot express
even to himself in the receipt of such a letter as this. There is nothing so flattering as
the warm expression of the confidence of a woman's love, and Phineas thought that no woman
ever expressed this more completely than did his Mary. Dear, dearest Mary. As for giving her
up, as for treachery to one so trusting, so sweet, so well beloved, that was out of the question.
But nevertheless the truth came home to him more clearly day by day, that he of all men was
the last who ought to have given himself up to such a passion. For her sake he ought to have
abstained. So he told himself now. For her sake he ought to have kept aloof from her;--and
for his own sake he ought to have kept aloof from Mr. Monk. That very day, with Mary's letter
in his pocket, he went to the livery stables and explained that he would not keep his horse
any longer. There was no difficulty about the horse. Mr. Howard Macleod of the Treasury would
take him from that very hour. Phineas, as he walked away, uttered a curse upon Mr. Howard Macleod.
Mr. Howard Macleod was just beginning the glory of his life in London, and he, Phineas Finn,
was bringing his to an end.

With Mary's letter in his pocket he went up to Portman Square. He had again got into the habit
of seeing Lady Laura frequently, and was often with her brother, who now again lived at his
father's house. A letter had reached Lord Brentford, through his lawyer, in which a demand
was made by Mr. Kennedy for the return of his wife. She was quite determined that she would
never go back to him; and there had come to her a doubt whether it would not be expedient that
she should live abroad so as to be out of the way of persecution from her husband. Lord Brentford
was in great wrath, and Lord Chiltern had once or twice hinted that perhaps he had better "see"
Mr. Kennedy. The amenities of such an interview, as this would be, had up to the present day
been postponed; and, in a certain way, Phineas had been used as a messenger between Mr. Kennedy
and his wife's family.

"I think it will end," she said, "in my going to Dresden, and settling myself there. Papa will
come to me when Parliament is not sitting."

"It will be very dull."

"Dull! What does dulness amount to when one has come to such a pass as this? When one is in
the ruck of fortune, to be dull is very bad; but when misfortune comes, simple dulness is nothing.
It sounds almost like relief."

"It is so hard that you should be driven away." She did not answer him for a while, and he
was beginning to think of his own case also. Was it not hard that he too should be driven away?
"It is odd enough that we should both be going at the same time."

"But you will not go?"

"I think I shall. I have resolved upon this,--that if I give up my place, I will give up my
seat too. I went into Parliament with the hope of office, and how can I remain there when I
shall have gained it and then have lost it?"

"But you will stay in London, Mr. Finn?"

"I think not. After all that has come and gone I should not be happy here, and I should make
my way easier and on cheaper terms in Dublin. My present idea is that I shall endeavour to
make a practice over in my own country. It will be hard work beginning at the bottom;--will
it not?"

"And so unnecessary."

"Ah, Lady Laura,--if it only could be avoided! But it is of no use going through all that again."

"How much we would both of us avoid if we could only have another chance!" said Lady Laura.
"If I could only be as I was before I persuaded myself to marry a man whom I never loved, what
a paradise the earth would be to me! With me all regrets are too late."

"And with me as much so."

"No, Mr. Finn. Even should you resign your office, there is no reason why you should give up
your seat."

"Simply that I have no income to maintain me in London."

She was silent for a few moments, during which she changed her seat so as to come nearer to
him, placing herself on a corner of a sofa close to the chair on which he was seated. "I wonder
whether I may speak to you plainly," she said.

"Indeed you may."

"On any subject?"

"Yes;--on any subject."

"I trust you have been able to rid your bosom of all remembrances of Violet Effingham."

"Certainly not of all remembrances, Lady Laura."

"Of all hope, then?"

"I have no such hope."

"And of all lingering desires?"

"Well, yes;--and of all lingering desires. I know now that it cannot be. Your brother is welcome
to her."

"Ah;--of that I know nothing. He, with his perversity, has estranged her. But I am sure of
this,--that if she do not marry him, she will marry no one. But it is not on account of him
that I speak. He must fight his own battles now."

"I shall not interfere with him, Lady Laura."

"Then why should you not establish yourself by a marriage that will make place a matter of
indifference to you? I know that it is within your power to do so." Phineas put his hand up
to his breastcoat pocket, and felt that Mary's letter,--her precious letter,--was there safe.
It certainly was not in his power to do this thing which Lady Laura recommended to him, but
he hardly thought that the present was a moment suitable for explaining to her the nature of
the impediment which stood in the way of such an arrangement. He had so lately spoken to Lady
Laura with an assurance of undying constancy of his love for Miss Effingham, that he could
not as yet acknowledge the force of another passion. He shook his head by way of reply. "I
tell you that it is so," she said with energy.

"I am afraid not."

"Go to Madame Goesler, and ask her. Hear what she will say."

"Madame Goesler would laugh at me, no doubt."

"Psha! You do not think so. You know that she would not laugh. And are you the man to be afraid
of a woman's laughter? I think not."

Again he did not answer her at once, and when he did speak the tone of his voice was altered.
"What was it you said of yourself, just now?"

"What did I say of myself?"

"You regretted that you had consented to marry a man,--whom you did not love."

"Why should you not love her? And it is so different with a man! A woman is wretched if she
does not love her husband, but I fancy that a man gets on very well without any such feeling.
She cannot domineer over you. She cannot expect you to pluck yourself out of your own soil,
and begin a new growth altogether in accordance with the laws of her own. It was that which
Mr. Kennedy did."

"I do not for a moment think that she would take me, if I were to offer myself."

"Try her," said Lady Laura energetically. "Such trials cost you but little;--we both of us
know that!" Still he said nothing of the letter in his pocket. "It is everything that you should
go on now that you have once begun. I do not believe in you working at the Bar. You cannot
do it. A man who has commenced life as you have done with the excitement of politics, who has
known what it is to take a prominent part in the control of public affairs, cannot give it
up and be happy at other work. Make her your wife, and you may resign or remain in office just
as you choose. Office will be much easier to you than it is now, because it will not be a necessity.
Let me at any rate have the pleasure of thinking that one of us can remain here,--that we need
not both fall together."

Still he did not tell her of the letter in his pocket. He felt that she moved him,--that she
made him acknowledge to himself how great would be the pity of such a failure as would be his.
He was quite as much alive as she could be to the fact that work at the Bar, either in London
or in Dublin, would have no charms for him now. The prospect of such a life was very dreary
to him. Even with the comfort of Mary's love such a life would be very dreary to him. And then
he knew,--he thought that he knew,--that were he to offer himself to Madame Goesler he would
not in truth be rejected. She had told him that if poverty was a trouble to him he need be
no longer poor. Of course he had understood this. Her money was at his service if he should
choose to stoop and pick it up. And it was not only money that such a marriage would give him.
He had acknowledged to himself more than once that Madame Goesler was very lovely, that she
was clever, attractive in every way, and as far as he could see, blessed with a sweet temper.
She had a position, too, in the world that would help him rather than mar him. What might he
not do with an independent seat in the House of Commons, and as joint owner of the little house
in Park Lane? Of all careers which the world could offer to a man the pleasantest would then
be within his reach. "You appear to me as a tempter," he said at last to Lady Laura.

"It is unkind of you to say that, and ungrateful. I would do anything on earth in my power
to help you."

"Nevertheless you are a tempter."

"I know how it ought to have been," she said, in a low voice. "I know very well how it ought
to have been. I should have kept myself free till that time when we met on the braes of Loughlinter,
and then all would have been well with us."

"I do not know how that might have been," said Phineas, hoarsely.

"You do not know! But I know. Of course you have stabbed me with a thousand daggers when you
have told me from time to time of your love for Violet. You have been very cruel,--needlessly
cruel. Men are so cruel! But for all that I have known that I could have kept you,--had it
not been too late when you spoke to me. Will you not own as much as that?"

"Of course you would have been everything to me. I should never have thought of Violet then."

"That is the only kind word you have said to me from that day to this. I try to comfort myself
in thinking that it would have been so. But all that is past and gone, and done. I have had
my romance and you have had yours. As you are a man, it is natural that you should have been
disturbed by a double image;--it is not so with me."

"And yet you can advise me to offer marriage to a woman,--a woman whom I am to seek merely
because she is rich?"

"Yes;--I do so advise you. You have had your romance and must now put up with reality. Why
should I so advise you but for the interest that I have in you? Your prosperity will do me
no good. I shall not even be here to see it. I shall hear of it only as so many a woman banished
out of England hears a distant misunderstood report of what is going on in the country she
has left. But I still have regard enough,--I will be bold, and, knowing that you will not take
it amiss, will say love enough for you,--to feel a desire that you should not be shipwrecked.
Since we first took you in hand between us, Barrington and I, I have never swerved in my anxiety
on your behalf. When I resolved that it would be better for us both that we should be only
friends, I did not swerve. When you would talk to me so cruelly of your love for Violet, I
did not swerve. When I warned you from Loughlinter because I thought there was danger, I did
not swerve. When I bade you not to come to me in London because of my husband, I did not swerve.
When my father was hard upon you, I did not swerve then. I would not leave him till he was
softened. When you tried to rob Oswald of his love, and I thought you would succeed,--for I
did think so,--I did not swerve. I have ever been true to you. And now that I must hide myself
and go away, and be seen no more, I am true still."

"Laura,--dearest Laura!" he exclaimed.

"Ah, no!" she said, speaking with no touch of anger, but all in sorrow;--"it must not be like
that. There is no room for that. Nor do you mean it. I do not think so ill of you. But there
may not be even words of affection between us--only such as I may speak to make you know that
I am your friend."

"You are my friend," he said, stretching out his hand to her as he turned away his face. "You
are my friend, indeed."

"Then do as I would have you do."

He put his hand into his pocket, and had the letter between his fingers with the purport of
showing it to her. But at the moment the thought occurred to him that were he to do so, then,
indeed, he would be bound for ever. He knew that he was bound for ever,--bound for ever to
his own Mary; but he desired to have the privilege of thinking over such bondage once more
before he proclaimed it even to his dearest friend. He had told her that she tempted him, and
she stood before him now as a temptress. But lest it might be possible that she should not
tempt in vain,--that letter in his pocket must never be shown to her. In that case Lady Laura
must never hear from his lips the name of Mary Flood Jones.

He left her without any assured purpose;--without, that is, the assurance to her of any fixed
purpose. There yet wanted a week to the day on which Mr. Monk's bill was to be read,--or not
to be read,--the second time; and he had still that interval before he need decide. He went
to his club, and before he dined he strove to write a line to Mary;--but when he had the paper
before him he found that it was impossible to do so. Though he did not even suspect himself
of an intention to be false, the idea that was in his mind made the effort too much for him.
He put the paper away from him and went down and eat his dinner.

It was a Saturday, and there was no House in the evening. He had remained in Portman Square
with Lady Laura till near seven o'clock, and was engaged to go out in the evening to a gathering
at Mrs. Gresham's house. Everybody in London would be there, and Phineas was resolved that
as long as he remained in London he would be seen at places where everybody was seen. He would
certainly be at Mrs. Gresham's gathering; but there was an hour or two before he need go home
to dress, and as he had nothing to do, he went down to the smoking-room of his club. The seats
were crowded, but there was one vacant; and before he had looked about him to scrutinise his
neighbourhood, he found that he had placed himself with Bonteen on his right hand and Ratler
on his left. There were no two men in all London whom he more thoroughly disliked; but it was
too late for him to avoid them now.

They instantly attacked him, first on one side and then on the other. "So I am told you are
going to leave us," said Bonteen.

"Who can have been ill-natured enough to whisper such a thing?" replied Phineas.

"The whispers are very loud, I can tell you," said Ratler. "I think I know already pretty nearly
how every man in the House will vote, and I have not got your name down on the right side."

"Change it for heaven's sake," said Phineas.

"I will, if you'll tell me seriously that I may," said Ratler.

"My opinion is," said Bonteen, "that a man should be known either as a friend or foe. I respect
a declared foe."

"Know me as a declared foe then," said Phineas, "and respect me."

"That's all very well," said Ratler, "but it means nothing. I've always had a sort of fear
about you, Finn, that you would go over the traces some day. Of course it's a very grand thing
to be independent."

"The finest thing in the world," said Bonteen; "only so d----d useless."

"But a man shouldn't be independent and stick to the ship at the same time. You forget the
trouble you cause, and how you upset all calculations."

"I hadn't thought of the calculations," said Phineas.

"The fact is, Finn," said Bonteen, "you are made of clay too fine for office. I've always found
it has been so with men from your country. You are the grandest horses in the world to look
at out on a prairie, but you don't like the slavery of harness."

"And the sound of a whip over our shoulders sets us kicking;--does it not, Ratler?"

"I shall show the list to Gresham to-morrow," said Ratler, "and of course he can do as he pleases;
but I don't understand this kind of thing."

"Don't you be in a hurry," said Bonteen. "I'll bet you a sovereign Finn votes with us yet.
There's nothing like being a little coy to set off a girl's charms. I'll bet you a sovereign,
Ratler, that Finn goes out into the lobby with you and me against Monk's bill."

Phineas, not being able to stand any more of this most unpleasant raillery, got up and went
away. The club was distasteful to him, and he walked off and sauntered for a while about the
park. He went down by the Duke of York's column as though he were going to his office, which
of course was closed at this hour, but turned round when he got beyond the new public buildings,--buildings
which he was never destined to use in their completed state,--and entered the gates of the
enclosure, and wandered on over the bridge across the water. As he went his mind was full of
thought. Could it be good for him to give up everything for a fair face? He swore to himself
that of all women whom he had ever seen Mary was the sweetest and the dearest and the best.
If it could be well to lose the world for a woman, it would be well to lose it for her. Violet,
with all her skill, and all her strength, and all her grace, could never have written such
a letter as that which he still held in his pocket. The best charm of a woman is that she should
be soft, and trusting, and generous; and who ever had been more soft, more trusting, and more
generous than his Mary? Of course he would be true to her, though he did lose the world.

But to yield such a triumph to the Ratlers and Bonteens whom he left behind him,--to let them
have their will over him,--to know that they would rejoice scurrilously behind his back over
his downfall! The feeling was terrible to him. The last words which Bonteen had spoken made
it impossible to him now not to support his old friend Mr. Monk. It was not only what Bonteen
had said, but that the words of Mr. Bonteen so plainly indicated what would be the words of
all the other Bonteens. He knew that he was weak in this. He knew that had he been strong,
he would have allowed himself to be guided,--if not by the firm decision of his own spirit,--by
the counsels of such men as Mr. Gresham and Lord Cantrip, and not by the sarcasms of the Bonteens
and Ratlers of official life. But men who sojourn amidst savagery fear the mosquito more than
they do the lion. He could not bear to think that he should yield his blood to such a one as
Bonteen.

And he must yield his blood, unless he could vote for Mr. Monk's motion, and hold his ground
afterwards among them all in the House of Commons. He would at any rate see the session out,
and try a fall with Mr. Bonteen when they should be sitting on different benches,--if ever
fortune should give him an opportunity. And in the meantime, what should he do about Madame
Goesler? What a fate was his to have the handsomest woman in London with thousands and thousands
a year at his disposal! For,--so he now swore to himself,--Madame Goesler was the handsomest
woman in London, as Mary Flood Jones was the sweetest girl in the world.

He had not arrived at any decision so fixed as to make him comfortable when he went home and
dressed for Mrs. Gresham's party. And yet he knew,--he thought that he knew that he would be
true to Mary Flood Jones.

CHAPTER LXX

The Prime Minister's House

The rooms and passages and staircases at Mrs. Gresham's house were very crowded when Phineas
arrived there. Men of all shades of politics were there, and the wives and daughters of such
men; and there was a streak of royalty in one of the saloons, and a whole rainbow of foreign
ministers with their stars, and two blue ribbons were to be seen together on the first landing-place,
with a stout lady between them carrying diamonds enough to load a pannier. Everybody was there.
Phineas found that even Lord Chiltern was come, as he stumbled across his friend on the first
foot-ground that he gained in his ascent towards the rooms. "Halloa,--you here?" said Phineas.
"Yes, by George!" said the other, "but I am going to escape as soon as possible. I've been
trying to make my way up for the last hour, but could never get round that huge promontory
there. Laura was more persevering." "Is Kennedy here?" Phineas whispered. "I do not know,"
said Chiltern, "but she was determined to run the chance."

A little higher up,--for Phineas was blessed with more patience than Lord Chiltern possessed,--he
came upon Mr. Monk. "So you are still admitted privately," said Phineas.

"Oh dear yes,--and we have just been having a most friendly conversation about you. What a
man he is! He knows everything. He is so accurate; so just in the abstract,--and in the abstract
so generous!"

"He has been very generous to me in detail as well as in abstract," said Phineas.

"Ah, yes; I am not thinking of individuals exactly. His want of generosity is to large masses,--to
a party, to classes, to a people; whereas his generosity is for mankind at large. He assumes
the god, affects to nod, and seems to shake the spheres. But I have nothing against him. He
has asked me here to-night, and has talked to me most familiarly about Ireland."

"What do you think of your chance of a second reading?" asked Phineas.

"What do you think of it?--you hear more of those things than I do."

"Everybody says it will be a close division."

"I never expected it," said Mr. Monk.

"Nor I, till I heard what Daubeny said at the first reading. They will all vote for the bill
en masse,--hating it in their hearts all the time."

"Let us hope they are not so bad as that."

"It is the way with them always. They do all our work for us,--sailing either on one tack or
the other. That is their use in creation, that when we split among ourselves, as we always
do, they come in and finish our job for us. It must be unpleasant for them to be always doing
that which they always say should never be done at all."

"Wherever the gift horse may come from, I shall not look it in the mouth," said Mr. Monk. "There
is only one man in the House whom I hope I may not see in the lobby with me, and that is yourself."

"The question is decided now," said Phineas.

"And how is it decided?"

Phineas could not tell his friend that a question of so great magnitude to him had been decided
by the last sting which he had received from an insect so contemptible as Mr. Bonteen, but
he expressed the feeling as well as he knew how to express it. "Oh, I shall be with you. I
know what you are going to say, and I know how good you are. But I could not stand it. Men
are beginning already to say things which almost make me get up and kick them. If I can help
it, I will give occasion to no man to hint anything to me which can make me be so wretched
as I have been to-day. Pray do not say anything more. My idea is that I shall resign to-morrow."

"Then I hope that we may fight the battle side by side," said Mr. Monk, giving him his hand.

"We will fight the battle side by side," replied Phineas.

After that he pushed his way still higher up the stairs, having no special purpose in view,
not dreaming of any such success as that of reaching his host or hostess,--merely feeling that
it should be a point of honour with him to make a tour through the rooms before he descended
the stairs. The thing, he thought, was to be done with courage and patience, and this might,
probably, be the last time in his life that he would find himself in the house of a Prime Minister.
Just at the turn of the balustrade at the top of the stairs, he found Mr. Gresham in the very
spot on which Mr. Monk had been talking with him. "Very glad to see you," said Mr. Gresham.
"You, I find, are a persevering man, with a genius for getting upwards."

"Like the sparks," said Phineas.

"Not quite so quickly," said Mr. Gresham.

"But with the same assurance of speedy loss of my little light."

It did not suit Mr. Gresham to understand this, so he changed the subject. "Have you seen the
news from America?"

"Yes, I have seen it, but do not believe it," said Phineas.

"Ah, you have such faith in a combination of British colonies, properly backed in Downing Street,
as to think them strong against a world in arms. In your place I should hold to the same doctrine,--hold
to it stoutly."

"And you do now, I hope, Mr. Gresham?"

"Well,--yes,--I am not down-hearted. But I confess to a feeling that the world would go on
even though we had nothing to say to a single province in North America. But that is for your
private ear. You are not to whisper that in Downing Street." Then there came up somebody else,
and Phineas went on upon his slow course. He had longed for an opportunity to tell Mr. Gresham
that he could go to Downing Street no more, but such opportunity had not reached him.

For a long time he found himself stuck close by the side of Miss Fitzgibbon,--Miss Aspasia
Fitzgibbon,--who had once relieved him from terrible pecuniary anxiety by paying for him a
sum of money which was due by him on her brother's account. "It's a very nice thing to be here,
but one does get tired of it," said Miss Fitzgibbon.

"Very tired," said Phineas.

"Of course it is a part of your duty, Mr. Finn. You are on your promotion and are bound to
be here. When I asked Laurence to come, he said there was nothing to be got till the cards
were shuffled again."

"They'll be shuffled very soon," said Phineas.

"Whatever colour comes up, you'll hold trumps, I know," said the lady. "Some hands always hold
trumps." He could not explain to Miss Fitzgibbon that it would never again be his fate to hold
a single trump in his hand; so he made another fight, and got on a few steps farther.

He said a word as he went to half a dozen friends,--as friends went with him. He was detained
for five minutes by Lady Baldock, who was very gracious and very disagreeable. She told him
that Violet was in the room, but where she did not know. "She is somewhere with Lady Laura,
I believe; and really, Mr. Finn, I do not like it." Lady Baldock had heard that Phineas had
quarrelled with Lord Brentford, but had not heard of the reconciliation. "Really, I do not
like it. I am told that Mr. Kennedy is in the house, and nobody knows what may happen."

"Mr. Kennedy is not likely to say anything."

"One cannot tell. And when I hear that a woman is separated from her husband, I always think
that she must have been imprudent. It may be uncharitable, but I think it is most safe so to
consider."

"As far as I have heard the circumstances, Lady Laura was quite right," said Phineas.

"It may be so. Gentlemen will always take the lady's part,--of course. But I should be very
sorry to have a daughter separated from her husband,--very sorry."

Phineas, who had nothing now to gain from Lady Baldock's favour, left her abruptly, and went
on again. He had a great desire to see Lady Laura and Violet together, though he could hardly
tell himself why. He had not seen Miss Effingham since his return from Ireland, and he thought
that if he met her alone he could hardly have talked to her with comfort; but he knew that
if he met her with Lady Laura, she would greet him as a friend, and speak to him as though
there were no cause for embarrassment between them. But he was so far disappointed, that he
suddenly encountered Violet alone. She had been leaning on the arm of Lord Baldock, and Phineas
saw her cousin leave her. But he would not be such a coward as to avoid her, especially as
he knew that she had seen him. "Oh, Mr. Finn!" she said, "do you see that?"

"See what?"

"Look; There is Mr. Kennedy. We had heard that it was possible, and Laura made me promise that
I would not leave her." Phineas turned his head, and saw Mr. Kennedy standing with his back
bolt upright against a door-post, with his brow as black as thunder. "She is just opposite
to him, where he can see her," said Violet. "Pray take me to her. He will think nothing of
you, because I know that you are still friends with both of them. I came away because Lord
Baldock wanted to introduce me to Lady Mouser. You know he is going to marry Miss Mouser."

Phineas, not caring much about Lord Baldock and Miss Mouser, took Violet's hand upon his arm,
and very slowly made his way across the room to the spot indicated. There they found Lady Laura
alone, sitting under the upas-tree influence of her husband's gaze. There was a concourse of
people between them, and Mr. Kennedy did not seem inclined to make any attempt to lessen the
distance. But Lady Laura had found it impossible to move while she was under her husband's eyes.

"Mr. Finn," she said, "could you find Oswald? I know he is here."

"He has gone," said Phineas. "I was speaking to him downstairs."

"You have not seen my father? He said he would come."

"I have not seen him, but I will search."

"No;--it will do no good. I cannot stay. His carriage is there, I know,--waiting for me." Phineas
immediately started off to have the carriage called, and promised to return with as much celerity
as he could use. As he went, making his way much quicker through the crowd than he had done
when he had no such object for haste, he purposely avoided the door by which Mr. Kennedy had
stood. It would have been his nearest way, but his present service, he thought, required that
he should keep aloof from the man. But Mr. Kennedy passed through the door and intercepted
him in his path.

"Is she going?" he asked.

"Well. Yes. I dare say she may before long. I shall look for Lord Brentford's carriage by-and-by."

"Tell her she need not go because of me. I shall not return. I shall not annoy her here. It
would have been much better that a woman in such a plight should not have come to such an assembly."

"You would not wish her to shut herself up."

"I would wish her to come back to the home that she has left, and, if there be any law in the
land, she shall be made to do so. You tell her that I say so." Then Mr. Kennedy fought his
way down the stairs, and Phineas Finn followed in his wake.

About half an hour afterwards Phineas returned to the two ladies with tidings that the carriage
would be at hand as soon as they could be below. "Did he see you?" said Lady Laura.

"Yes, he followed me."

"And did he speak to you?"

"Yes;--he spoke to me."

"And what did he say?" And then, in the presence of Violet, Phineas gave the message. He thought
it better that it should be given; and were he to decline to deliver it now, it would never
be given. "Whether there be law in the land to protect me or whether there be none, I will
never live with him," said Lady Laura. "Is a woman like a head of cattle, that she can be fastened
in her crib by force? I will never live with him though all the judges of the land should decide
that I must do so."

Phineas thought much of all this as he went to his solitary lodgings. After all, was not the
world much better with him than it was with either of those two wretched married beings? And
why? He had not, at any rate as yet, sacrificed for money or social gains any of the instincts
of his nature. He had been fickle, foolish, vain, uncertain, and perhaps covetous;--but as
yet he had not been false. Then he took out Mary's last letter and read it again.

CHAPTER LXXI

Comparing Notes

It would, perhaps, be difficult to decide,--between Lord Chiltern and Miss Effingham,--which
had been most wrong, or which had been nearest to the right, in the circumstances which had
led to their separation. The old lord, wishing to induce his son to undertake work of some
sort, and feeling that his own efforts in this direction were worse than useless, had closeted
himself with his intended daughter-in-law, and had obtained from her a promise that she would
use her influence with her lover. "Of course I think it right that he should do something,"
Violet had said. "And he will if you bid him," replied the Earl. Violet expressed a great doubt
as to this willingness of obedience; but, nevertheless, she promised to do her best, and she
did her best. Lord Chiltern, when she spoke to him, knit his brows with an apparent ferocity
of anger which his countenance frequently expressed without any intention of ferocity on his
part. He was annoyed, but was not savagely disposed to Violet. As he looked at her, however,
he seemed to be very savagely disposed. "What is it you would have me do?" he said.

"I would have you choose some occupation, Oswald."

"What occupation? What is it that you mean? Ought I to be a shoemaker?"

"Not that by preference, I should say; but that if you please." When her lover had frowned
at her, Violet had resolved,--had strongly determined, with inward assertions of her own rights,--that
she would not be frightened by him.

"You are talking nonsense, Violet. You know that I cannot be a shoemaker."

"You may go into Parliament."

"I neither can, nor would I if I could. I dislike the life."

"You might farm."

"I cannot afford it."

"You might,--might do anything. You ought to do something. You know that you ought. You know
that your father is right in what he says."

"That is easily asserted, Violet; but it would, I think, be better that you should take my
part than my father's, if it be that you intend to be my wife."

"You know that I intend to be your wife; but would you wish that I should respect my husband?"

"And will you not do so if you marry me?" he asked.

Then Violet looked into his face and saw that the frown was blacker than ever. The great mark
down his forehead was deeper and more like an ugly wound than she had ever seen it; and his
eyes sparkled with anger; and his face was red as with fiery wrath. If it was so with him when
she was no more than engaged to him, how would it be when they should be man and wife? At any
rate, she would not fear him,--not now at least. "No, Oswald," she said. "If you resolve upon
being an idle man, I shall not respect you. It is better that I should tell you the truth."

"A great deal better," he said.

"How can I respect one whose whole life will be,--will be--?"

"Will be what?" he demanded with a loud shout.

"Oswald, you are very rough with me."

"What do you say that my life will be?"

Then she again resolved that she would not fear him. "It will be discreditable," she said.

"It shall not discredit you," he replied. "I will not bring disgrace on one I have loved so
well. Violet, after what you have said, we had better part." She was still proud, still determined,
and they did part. Though it nearly broke her heart to see him leave her, she bid him go. She
hated herself afterwards for her severity to him; but, nevertheless, she would not submit to
recall the words which she had spoken. She had thought him to be wrong, and, so thinking, had
conceived it to be her duty and her privilege to tell him what she thought. But she had no
wish to lose him;--no wish not to be his wife even, though he should be as idle as the wind.
She was so constituted that she had never allowed him or any other man to be master of her
heart,--till she had with a full purpose given her heart away. The day before she had resolved
to give it to one man, she might, I think, have resolved to give it to another. Love had not
conquered her, but had been taken into her service. Nevertheless, she could not now rid herself
of her servant, when she found that his services would stand her no longer in good stead. She
parted from Lord Chiltern with an assent, with an assured brow, and with much dignity in her
gait; but as soon as she was alone she was a prey to remorse. She had declared to the man who
was to have been her husband that his life was discreditable,--and, of course, no man would
bear such language. Had Lord Chiltern borne it, he would not have been worthy of her love.

She herself told Lady Laura and Lord Brentford what had occurred,--and had told Lady Baldock
also. Lady Baldock had, of course, triumphed,--and Violet sought her revenge by swearing that
she would regret for ever the loss of so inestimable a gentleman. "Then why have you given
him up, my dear?" demanded Lady Baldock. "Because I found that he was too good for me," said
Violet. It may be doubtful whether Lady Baldock was not justified, when she declared that her
niece was to her a care so harassing that no aunt known in history had ever been so troubled
before.

Lord Brentford had fussed and fumed, and had certainly made things worse. He had quarrelled
with his son, and then made it up, and then quarrelled again,--swearing that the fault must
all be attributed to Chiltern's stubbornness and Chiltern's temper. Latterly, however, by Lady
Laura's intervention, Lord Brentford and his son had again been reconciled, and the Earl endeavoured
manfully to keep his tongue from disagreeable words, and his face from evil looks, when his
son was present. "They will make it up," Lady Laura had said, "if you and I do not attempt
to make it up for them. If we do, they will never come together." The Earl was convinced, and
did his best. But the task was very difficult to him. How was he to keep his tongue off his
son while his son was daily saying things of which any father,--any such father as Lord Brentford,--could
not but disapprove? Lord Chiltern professed to disbelieve even in the wisdom of the House of
Lords, and on one occasion asserted that it must be a great comfort to any Prime Minister to
have three or four old women in the Cabinet. The father, when he heard this, tried to rebuke
his son tenderly, strove even to be jocose. It was the one wish of his heart that Violet Effingham
should be his daughter-in-law. But even with this wish he found it very hard to keep his tongue
off Lord Chiltern.

When Lady Laura discussed the matter with Violet, Violet would always declare that there was
no hope. "The truth is," she said on the morning of that day on which they both went to Mrs.
Gresham's, "that though we like each other,--love each other, if you choose to say so,--we
are not fit to be man and wife."

"And why not fit?"

"We are too much alike. Each is too violent, too headstrong, and too masterful."

"You, as the woman, ought to give way," said Lady Laura.

"But we do not always do just what we ought."

"I know how difficult it is for me to advise, seeing to what a pass I have brought myself."

"Do not say that, dear;--or rather do say it, for we have, both of us, brought ourselves to
what you call a pass,--to such a pass that we are like to be able to live together and discuss
it for the rest of our lives. The difference is, I take it, that you have not to accuse yourself,
and that I have."

"I cannot say that I have not to accuse myself," said Lady Laura. "I do not know that I have
done much wrong to Mr. Kennedy since I married him; but in marrying him I did him a grievous
wrong."

"And he has avenged himself."

"We will not talk of vengeance. I believe he is wretched, and I know that I am;--and that has
come of the wrong that I have done."

"I will make no man wretched," said Violet.

"Do you mean that your mind is made up against Oswald?"

"I mean that, and I mean much more. I say that I will make no man wretched. Your brother is
not the only man who is so weak as to be willing to run the hazard."

"There is Lord Fawn."

"Yes, there is Lord Fawn, certainly. Perhaps I should not do him much harm; but then I should
do him no good."

"And poor Phineas Finn."

"Yes;--there is Mr. Finn. I will tell you something, Laura. The only man I ever saw in the
world whom I have thought for a moment that it was possible that I should like,--like enough
to love as my husband,--except your brother, was Mr. Finn."

"And now?"

"Oh;--now; of course that is over," said Violet.

"It is over?"

"Quite over. Is he not going to marry Madame Goesler? I suppose all that is fixed by this time.
I hope she will be good to him, and gracious, and let him have his own way, and give him his
tea comfortably when he comes up tired from the House; for I confess that my heart is a little
tender towards Phineas still. I should not like to think that he had fallen into the hands
of a female Philistine."

"I do not think he will marry Madame Goesler."

"Why not?"

"I can hardly tell you;--but I do not think he will. And you loved him once,--eh, Violet?"

"Not quite that, my dear. It has been difficult with me to love. The difficulty with most girls,
I fancy, is not to love. Mr. Finn, when I came to measure him in my mind, was not small, but
he was never quite tall enough. One feels oneself to be a sort of recruiting sergeant, going
about with a standard of inches. Mr. Finn was just half an inch too short. He lacks something
in individuality. He is a little too much a friend to everybody."

"Shall I tell you a secret, Violet?"

"If you please, dear; though I fancy it is one I know already."

"He is the only man whom I ever loved," said Lady Laura.

"But it was too late when you learned to love him," said Violet.

"It was too late, when I was so sure of it as to wish that I had never seen Mr. Kennedy. I
felt it coming on me, and I argued with myself that such a marriage would be bad for us both.
At that moment there was trouble in the family, and I had not a shilling of my own."

"You had paid it for Oswald."

"At any rate, I had nothing;--and he had nothing. How could I have dared to think even of such
a marriage?"

"Did he think of it, Laura?"

"I suppose he did."

"You know he did. Did you not tell me before?"

"Well;--yes. He thought of it. I had come to some foolish, half-sentimental resolution as to
friendship, believing that he and I could be knit together by some adhesion of fraternal affection
that should be void of offence to my husband; and in furtherance of this he was asked to Loughlinter
when I went there, just after I had accepted Robert. He came down, and I measured him too,
as you have done. I measured him, and I found that he wanted nothing to come up to the height
required by my standard. I think I knew him better than you did."

"Very possibly;--but why measure him at all, when such measurement was useless?"

"Can one help such things? He came to me one day as I was sitting up by the Linter. You remember
the place, where it makes its first leap."

"I remember it very well."

"So do I. Robert had shown it me as the fairest spot in all Scotland."

"And there this lover of ours sang his song to you?"

"I do not know what he told me then; but I know that I told him that I was engaged; and I felt
when I told him so that my engagement was a sorrow to me. And it has been a sorrow from that
day to this."

"And the hero, Phineas,--he is still dear to you?"

"Dear to me?"

"Yes. You would have hated me, had he become my husband? And you will hate Madame Goesler when
she becomes his wife?"

"Not in the least. I am no dog in the manger. I have even gone so far as almost to wish, at
certain moments, that you should accept him."

"And why?"

"Because he has wished it so heartily."

"One can hardly forgive a man for such speedy changes," said Violet.

"Was I not to forgive him;--I, who had turned myself away from him with a fixed purpose the
moment that I found that he had made a mark upon my heart? I could not wipe off the mark, and
yet I married. Was he not to try to wipe off his mark?"

"It seems that he wiped it off very quickly;--and since that he has wiped off another mark.
One doesn't know how many marks he has wiped off. They are like the inn-keeper's score which
he makes in chalk. A damp cloth brings them all away, and leaves nothing behind."

"What would you have?"

"There should be a little notch on the stick,--to remember by," said Violet. "Not that I complain,
you know. I cannot complain, as I was not notched myself."

"You are silly, Violet."

"In not having allowed myself to be notched by this great champion?"

"A man like Mr. Finn has his life to deal with,--to make the most of it, and to divide it between
work, pleasure, duty, ambition, and the rest of it as best he may. If he have any softness
of heart, it will be necessary to him that love should bear a part in all these interests.
But a man will be a fool who will allow love to be the master of them all. He will be one whose
mind is so ill-balanced as to allow him to be the victim of a single wish. Even in a woman
passion such as that is evidence of weakness, and not of strength."

"It seems, then, Laura, that you are weak."

"And if I am, does that condemn him? He is a man, if I judge him rightly, who will be constant
as the sun, when constancy can be of service."

"You mean that the future Mrs. Finn will be secure?"

"That is what I mean;--and that you or I, had either of us chosen to take his name, might have
been quite secure. We have thought it right to refuse to do so."

"And how many more, I wonder?"

"You are unjust, and unkind, Violet. So unjust and unkind that it is clear to me he has just
gratified your vanity, and has never touched your heart. What would you have had him do, when
I told him that I was engaged?"

"I suppose that Mr. Kennedy would not have gone to Blankenberg with him."

"Violet!"

"That seems to be the proper thing to do. But even that does not adjust things finally;--does
it?" Then some one came upon them, and the conversation was brought to an end.

CHAPTER LXXII

Madame Goesler's Generosity

When Phineas Finn left Mr. Gresham's house he had quite resolved what he would do. On the next
morning he would tell Lord Cantrip that his resignation was a necessity, and that he would
take that nobleman's advice as to resigning at once, or waiting till the day on which Mr. Monk's
Irish Bill would be read for the second time.

"My dear Finn, I can only say that I deeply regret it," said Lord Cantrip.

"So do I. I regret to leave office, which I like,--and which indeed I want. I regret specially
to leave this office, as it has been a thorough pleasure to me; and I regret, above all, to
leave you. But I am convinced that Monk is right, and I find it impossible not to support him."

"I wish that Mr. Monk was at Bath," said Lord Cantrip.

Phineas could only smile, and shrug his shoulders, and say that even though Mr. Monk were at
Bath it would not probably make much difference. When he tendered his letter of resignation,
Lord Cantrip begged him to withdraw it for a day or two. He would, he said, speak to Mr. Gresham.
The debate on the second reading of Mr. Monk's bill would not take place till that day week,
and the resignation would be in time if it was tendered before Phineas either spoke or voted
against the Government. So Phineas went back to his room, and endeavoured to make himself useful
in some work appertaining to his favourite Colonies.

That conversation had taken place on a Friday, and on the following Sunday, early in the day,
he left his rooms after a late breakfast,--a prolonged breakfast, during which he had been
studying tenant-right statistics, preparing his own speech, and endeavouring to look forward
into the future which that speech was to do so much to influence,--and turned his face towards
Park Lane. There had been a certain understanding between him and Madame Goesler that he was
to call in Park Lane on this Sunday morning, and then declare to her what was his final resolve
as to the office which he held. "It is simply to bid her adieu," he said to himself, "for I
shall hardly see her again." And yet, as he took off his morning easy coat, and dressed himself
for the streets, and stood for a moment before his looking-glass, and saw that his gloves were
fresh and that his boots were properly polished, I think there was a care about his person
which he would have hardly taken had he been quite assured that he simply intended to say good-bye
to the lady whom he was about to visit. But if there were any such conscious feeling, he administered
to himself an antidote before he left the house. On returning to the sitting-room he went to
a little desk from which he took out the letter from Mary which the reader has seen, and carefully
perused every word of it. "She is the best of them all," he said to himself, as he refolded
the letter and put it back into his desk. I am not sure that it is well that a man should have
any large number from whom to select a best; as, in such circumstances, he is so very apt to
change his judgment from hour to hour. The qualities which are the most attractive before dinner
sometimes become the least so in the evening.

The morning was warm, and he took a cab. It would not do that he should speak even his last
farewell to such a one as Madame Goesler with all the heat and dust of a long walk upon him.
Having been so careful about his boots and gloves he might as well use his care to the end.
Madame Goesler was a very pretty woman, who spared herself no trouble in making herself as
pretty as Nature would allow, on behalf of those whom she favoured with her smiles; and to
such a lady some special attention was due by one who had received so many of her smiles as
had Phineas. And he felt, too, that there was something special in this very visit. It was
to be made by appointment, and there had come to be an understanding between them that Phineas
should tell her on this occasion what was his resolution with reference to his future life.
I think that he had been very wise in fortifying himself with a further glance at our dear
Mary's letter, before he trusted himself within Madame Goesler's door.

Yes;--Madame Goesler was at home. The door was opened by Madame Goesler's own maid, who, smiling,
explained that the other servants were all at church. Phineas had become sufficiently intimate
at the cottage in Park Lane to be on friendly terms with Madame Goesler's own maid, and now
made some little half-familiar remark as to the propriety of his visit during church time.
"Madame will not refuse to see you, I am thinking," said the girl, who was a German. "And she
is alone?" asked Phineas. "Alone? Yes;--of course she is alone. Who should be with her now?"
Then she took him up into the drawing-room; but, when there, he found that Madame Goesler was
absent. "She shall be down directly," said the girl. "I shall tell her who is here, and she
will come."

It was a very pretty room. It may almost be said that there could be no prettier room in all
London. It looked out across certain small private gardens,--which were as bright and gay as
money could make them when brought into competition with London smoke,--right on to the park.
Outside and inside the window, flowers and green things were so arranged that the room itself
almost looked as though it were a bower in a garden. And everything in that bower was rich
and rare; and there was nothing there which annoyed by its rarity or was distasteful by its
richness. The seats, though they were costly as money could buy, were meant for sitting, and
were comfortable as seats. There were books for reading, and the means of reading them. Two
or three gems of English art were hung upon the walls, and could be seen backwards and forwards
in the mirrors. And there were precious toys lying here and there about the room,--toys very
precious, but placed there not because of their price, but because of their beauty. Phineas
already knew enough of the art of living to be aware that the woman who had made that room
what it was, had charms to add a beauty to everything she touched. What would such a life as
his want, if graced by such a companion,--such a life as his might be, if the means which were
hers were at his command? It would want one thing, he thought,--the self-respect which he would
lose if he were false to the girl who was trusting him with such sweet trust at home in Ireland.

In a very few minutes Madame Goesler was with him, and, though he did not think about it, he
perceived that she was bright in her apparel, that her hair was as soft as care could make
it, and that every charm belonging to her had been brought into use for his gratification.
He almost told himself that he was there in order that he might ask to have all those charms
bestowed upon himself. He did not know who had lately come to Park Lane and been a suppliant
for the possession of those rich endowments; but I wonder whether they would have been more
precious in his eyes had he known that they had so moved the heart of the great Duke as to
have induced him to lay his coronet at the lady's feet. I think that had he known that the
lady had refused the coronet, that knowledge would have enhanced the value of the prize.

"I am so sorry to have kept you waiting," she said, as she gave him her hand. "I was an owl
not to be ready for you when you told me that you would come."

"No;--but a bird of paradise to come to me so sweetly, and at an hour when all the other birds
refuse to show the feather of a single wing."

"And you,--you feel like a naughty boy, do you not, in thus coming out on a Sunday morning?"

"Do you feel like a naughty girl?"

"Yes;--just a little so. I do not know that I should care for everybody to hear that I received
visitors,--or worse still, a visitor,--at this hour on this day. But then it is so pleasant
to feel oneself to be naughty! There is a Bohemian flavour of picnic about it which, though
it does not come up to the rich gusto of real wickedness, makes one fancy that one is on the
border of that delightful region in which there is none of the constraint of custom,--where
men and women say what they like, and do what they like."

"It is pleasant enough to be on the borders," said Phineas.

"That is just it. Of course decency, morality, and propriety, all made to suit the eye of the
public, are the things which are really delightful. We all know that, and live accordingly,--as
well as we can. I do at least."

"And do not I, Madame Goesler?"

"I know nothing about that, Mr. Finn, and want to ask no questions. But if you do, I am sure
you agree with me that you often envy the improper people,--the Bohemians,--the people who
don't trouble themselves about keeping any laws except those for breaking which they would
be put into nasty, unpleasant prisons. I envy them. Oh, how I envy them!"

"But you are free as air."

"The most cabined, cribbed, and confined creature in the world! I have been fighting my way
up for the last four years, and have not allowed myself the liberty of one flirtation;--not
often even the recreation of a natural laugh. And now I shouldn't wonder if I don't find myself
falling back a year or two, just because I have allowed you to come and see me on a Sunday
morning. When I told Lotta that you were coming, she shook her head at me in dismay. But now
that you are here, tell me what you have done."

"Nothing as yet, Madame Goesler."

"I thought it was to have been settled on Friday?"

"It was settled,--before Friday. Indeed, as I look back at it all now, I can hardly tell when
it was not settled. It is impossible, and has been impossible, that I should do otherwise.
I still hold my place, Madame Goesler, but I have declared that I shall give it up before the
debate comes on."

"It is quite fixed?"

"Quite fixed, my friend."

"And what next?" Madame Goesler, as she thus interrogated him, was leaning across towards him
from the sofa on which she was placed, with both her elbows resting on a small table before
her. We all know that look of true interest which the countenance of a real friend will bear
when the welfare of his friend is in question. There are doubtless some who can assume it without
feeling,--as there are actors who can personate all the passions. But in ordinary life we think
that we can trust such a face, and that we know the true look when we see it. Phineas, as he
gazed into Madame Goesler's eyes, was sure that the lady opposite him was not acting. She at
least was anxious for his welfare, and was making his cares her own. "What next?" said she,
repeating her words in a tone that was somewhat hurried.

"I do not know that there will be any next. As far as public life is concerned, there will
be no next for me, Madame Goesler."

"That is out of the question," she said. "You are made for public life."

"Then I shall be untrue to my making, I fear. But to speak plainly--"

"Yes; speak plainly. I want to understand the reality."

"The reality is this. I shall keep my seat to the end of the session, as I think I may be of
use. After that I shall give it up."

"Resign that too?" she said in a tone of chagrin.

"The chances are, I think, that there will be another dissolution. If they hold their own against
Mr. Monk's motion, then they will pass an Irish Reform Bill. After that I think they must dissolve."

"And you will not come forward again?"

"I cannot afford it."

"Psha! Some five hundred pounds or so!"

"And, besides that, I am well aware that my only chance at my old profession is to give up
all idea of Parliament. The two things are not compatible for a beginner at the law. I know
it now, and have bought my knowledge by a bitter experience."

"And where will you live?"

"In Dublin, probably."

"And you will do,--will do what?"

"Anything honest in a barrister's way that may be brought to me. I hope that I may never descend
below that."

"You will stand up for all the blackguards, and try to make out that the thieves did not steal?"

"It may be that that sort of work may come in my way."

"And you will wear a wig and try to look wise?"

"The wig is not universal in Ireland, Madame Goesler."

"And you will wrangle, as though your very soul were in it, for somebody's twenty pounds?"

"Exactly."

"You have already made a name in the greatest senate in the world, and have governed other
countries larger than your own--"

"No;--I have not done that. I have governed no country.

"I tell you, my friend, that you cannot do it. It is out of the question. Men may move forward
from little work to big work; but they cannot move back and do little work, when they have
had tasks which were really great. I tell you, Mr. Finn, that the House of Parliament is the
place for you to work in. It is the only place;--that and the abodes of Ministers. Am not I
your friend who tell you this?"

"I know that you are my friend."

"And will you not credit me when I tell you this? What do you fear, that you should run away?
You have no wife;--no children. What is the coming misfortune that you dread?" She paused a
moment as though for an answer, and he felt that now had come the time in which it would be
well that he should tell her of his engagement with his own Mary. She had received him very
playfully; but now within the last few minutes there had come upon her a seriousness of gesture,
and almost a solemnity of tone, which made him conscious that he should in no way trifle with
her. She was so earnest in her friendship that he owed it to her to tell her everything. But
before he could think of the words in which his tale should be told, she had gone on with her
quick questions. "Is it solely about money that you fear?" she said.

"It is simply that I have no income on which to live."

"Have I not offered you money?"

"But, Madame Goesler, you who offer it would yourself despise me if I took it."

"No;--I do deny it." As she said this,--not loudly but with much emphasis,--she came and stood
before him where he was sitting. And as he looked at her he could perceive that there was a
strength about her of which he had not been aware. She was stronger, larger, more robust physically
than he had hitherto conceived. "I do deny it," she said. "Money is neither god nor devil,
that it should make one noble and another vile. It is an accident, and, if honestly possessed,
may pass from you to me, or from me to you, without a stain. You may take my dinner from me
if I give it you, my flowers, my friendship, my,--my,--my everything, but my money! Explain
to me the cause of the phenomenon. If I give to you a thousand pounds, now this moment, and
you take it, you are base;--but if I leave it you in my will,--and die,--you take it, and are
not base. Explain to me the cause of that."

"You have not said it quite all," said Phineas hoarsely.

"What have I left unsaid? If I have left anything unsaid, do you say the rest."

"It is because you are a woman, and young, and beautiful, that no man may take wealth from
your hands."

"Oh, it is that!"

"It is that partly,"

"If I were a man you might take it, though I were young and beautiful as the morning?"

"No;--presents of money are always bad. They stain and load the spirit, and break the heart."

"And specially when given by a woman's hand?"

"It seems so to me. But I cannot argue of it. Do not let us talk of it any more."

"Nor can I argue. I cannot argue, but I can be generous,--very generous. I can deny myself
for my friend,--can even lower myself in my own esteem for my friend. I can do more than a
man can do for a friend. You will not take money from my hand?"

"No, Madame Goesler;--I cannot do that."

"Take the hand then first. When it and all that it holds are your own, you can help yourself
as you list." So saying, she stood before him with her right hand stretched out towards him.

What man will say that he would not have been tempted? Or what woman will declare that such
temptation should have had no force? The very air of the room in which she dwelt was sweet
in his nostrils, and there hovered around her an halo of grace and beauty which greeted all
his senses. She invited him to join his lot to hers, in order that she might give to him all
that was needed to make his life rich and glorious. How would the Ratlers and the Bonteens
envy him when they heard of the prize which had become his! The Cantrips and the Greshams would
feel that he was a friend doubly valuable, if he could be won back; and Mr. Monk would greet
him as a fitting ally,--an ally strong with the strength which he had before wanted. With whom
would he not be equal? Whom need he fear? Who would not praise him? The story of his poor Mary
would be known only in a small village, out beyond the Channel. The temptation certainly was
very strong.

But he had not a moment in which to doubt. She was standing there with her face turned from
him, but with her hand still stretched towards him. Of course he took it. What man so placed
could do other than take a woman's hand?

"My friend," he said.

"I will be called friend by you no more," she said. "You must call me Marie, your own Marie,
or you must never call me by any name again. Which shall it be, sir?" He paused a moment, holding
her hand, and she let it lie there for an instant while she listened. But still she did not
look at him. "Speak to me! Tell me! Which shall it be?" Still he paused. "Speak to me. Tell
me!" she said again.

"It cannot be as you have hinted to me," he said at last. His words did not come louder than
a low whisper; but they were plainly heard, and instantly the hand was withdrawn.

"Cannot be!" she exclaimed. "Then I have betrayed myself."

"No;--Madame Goesler."

"Sir; I say yes! If you will allow me I will leave you. You will, I know, excuse me if I am
abrupt to you." Then she strode out of the room, and was no more seen of the eyes of Phineas Finn.

He never afterwards knew how he escaped out of that room and found his way into Park Lane.
In after days he had some memory that he remained there, he knew not how long, standing on
the very spot on which she had left him; and that at last there grew upon him almost a fear
of moving, a dread lest he should be heard, an inordinate desire to escape without the sound
of a footfall, without the clicking of a lock. Everything in that house had been offered to
him. He had refused it all, and then felt that of all human beings under the sun none had so
little right to be standing there as he. His very presence in that drawing-room was an insult
to the woman whom he had driven from it.

But at length he was in the street, and had found his way across Piccadilly into the Green
Park. Then, as soon as he could find a spot apart from the Sunday world, he threw himself upon
the turf; and tried to fix his thoughts upon the thing that he had done. His first feeling,
I think, was one of pure and unmixed disappointment;--of disappointment so bitter, that even
the vision of his own Mary did not tend to comfort him. How great might have been his success,
and how terrible was his failure! Had he taken the woman's hand and her money, had he clenched
his grasp on the great prize offered to him, his misery would have been ten times worse the
first moment that he would have been away from her. Then, indeed,--it being so that he was
a man with a heart within his breast,--there would have been no comfort for him, in his outlooks
on any side. But even now, when he had done right,--knowing well that he had done right,--he
found that comfort did not come readily within his reach.

CHAPTER LXXIII

Amantium Iræ

Miss Effingham's life at this time was not the happiest in the world. Her lines, as she once
said to her friend Lady Laura, were not laid for her in pleasant places. Her residence was
still with her aunt, and she had come to find that it was almost impossible any longer to endure
Lady Baldock, and quite impossible to escape from Lady Baldock. In former days she had had
a dream that she might escape, and live alone if she chose to be alone; that she might be independent
in her life, as a man is independent, if she chose to live after that fashion; that she might
take her own fortune in her own hand, as the law certainly allowed her to do, and act with
it as she might please. But latterly she had learned to understand that all this was not possible
for her. Though one law allowed it, another law disallowed it, and the latter law was at least
as powerful as the former. And then her present misery was enhanced by the fact that she was
now banished from the second home which she had formerly possessed. Hitherto she had always
been able to escape from Lady Baldock to the house of her friend, but now such escape was out
of the question. Lady Laura and Lord Chiltern lived in the same house, and Violet could not
live with them.

Lady Baldock understood all this, and tortured her niece accordingly. It was not premeditated
torture. The aunt did not mean to make her niece's life a burden to her, and, so intending,
systematically work upon a principle to that effect. Lady Baldock, no doubt, desired to do
her duty conscientiously. But the result was torture to poor Violet, and a strong conviction
on the mind of each of the two ladies that the other was the most unreasonable being in the world.

The aunt, in these days, had taken it into her head to talk of poor Lord Chiltern. This arose
partly from a belief that the quarrel was final, and that, therefore, there would be no danger
in aggravating Violet by this expression of pity,--partly from a feeling that it would be better
that her niece should marry Lord Chiltern than that she should not marry at all,--and partly,
perhaps, from the general principle that, as she thought it right to scold her niece on all
occasions, this might be best done by taking an opposite view of all questions to that taken
by the niece to be scolded. Violet was supposed to regard Lord Chiltern as having sinned against
her, and therefore Lady Baldock talked of "poor Lord Chiltern." As to the other lovers, she
had begun to perceive that their conditions were hopeless. Her daughter Augusta had explained
to her that there was no chance remaining either for Phineas, or for Lord Fawn, or for Mr.
Appledom. "I believe she will be an old maid, on purpose to bring me to my grave," said Lady
Baldock. When, therefore, Lady Baldock was told one day that Lord Chiltern was in the house,
and was asking to see Miss Effingham, she did not at once faint away, and declare that they
would all be murdered,--as she would have done some months since. She was perplexed by a double
duty. If it were possible that Violet should relent and be reconciled, then it would be her
duty to save Violet from the claws of the wild beast. But if there was no such chance, then
it would be her duty to poor Lord Chiltern to see that he was not treated with contumely and
ill-humour.

"Does she know that he is here?" Lady Baldock asked her daughter.

"Not yet, mamma."

"Oh dear, oh dear! I suppose she ought to see him. She has given him so much encouragement!"

"I suppose she will do as she pleases, mamma."

"Augusta, how can you talk in that way? Am I to have no control in my own house?" It was, however,
soon apparent to her that in this matter she was to have no control.

"Lord Chiltern is down-stairs," said Violet, coming into the room abruptly.

"So Augusta tells me. Sit down, my dear."

"I cannot sit down, aunt,--not just now. I have sent down to say that I would be with him in
a minute. He is the most impatient soul alive, and I must not keep him waiting."

"And you mean to see him?"

"Certainly I shall see him," said Violet, as she left the room.

"I wonder that any woman should ever take upon herself the charge of a niece!" said Lady Baldock
to her daughter in a despondent tone, as she held up her hands in dismay. In the meantime,
Violet had gone down-stairs with a quick step, and had then boldly entered the room in which
her lover was waiting to receive her.

"I have to thank you for coming to me, Violet," said Lord Chiltern. There was still in his
face something of savagery,--an expression partly of anger and partly of resolution to tame
the thing with which he was angry. Violet did not regard the anger half so keenly as she did
that resolution of taming. An angry lord, she thought, she could endure, but she could not
bear the idea of being tamed by any one.

