I have rarely addressed you with more pleasure than upon the present occasion. I was thrilled
with delight yesterday by the announcement of Mr. Shelley with the MS. of "Childe Harold."
I had no sooner got the quiet possession of it than, trembling with auspicious hope about it,
I carried it direct to Mr. Gifford. He has been exceedingly ill with jaundice, and unable to
write or do anything. He was much pleased by my attention. I called upon him today. He said
he was unable to leave off last night, and that he had sat up until he had finished every line
of the canto. It had actually agitated him into a fever, and he was much worse when I called.
He had persisted this morning in finishing the volume, and he pronounced himself infinitely
more delighted than when he first wrote to me. He says that what you have heretofore published
is nothing to this effort. He says also, besides its being the most original and interesting,
it is the most finished of your writings; and he has undertaken to correct the press for you.

Never, since my intimacy with Mr. Gifford, did I see him so heartily pleased, or give one-fiftieth
part of the praise, with one-thousandth part of the warmth. He speaks in ecstasy of the Dream--the
whole volume beams with genius. I am sure he loves you in his heart; and when he called upon
me some time ago, and I told him that you were gone, he instantly exclaimed in a full room,
"Well! he has not left his equal behind him--that I will say!" Perhaps you will enclose a line
for him....

Respecting the "Monody," I extract from a letter which I received this morning from Sir James
Mackintosh: "I presume that I have to thank you for a copy of the 'Monody' on Sheridan received
this morning. I wish it had been accompanied by the additional favour of mentioning the name
of the writer, at which I only guess: it is difficult to read the poem without desiring to know."

Generally speaking it is not, I think, popular, and spoken of rather for fine passages than
as a whole. How could you give so trite an image as in the last two lines? Gifford does not
like it; Frere does. A-propos of Mr. Frere: he came to me while at breakfast this morning,
and between some stanzas which he was repeating to me of a truly original poem of his own,
he said carelessly,

"By the way, about half-an-hour ago I was so silly (taking an immense pinch of snuff and priming
his nostrils with it) as to get married I "Perfectly true. He set out for Hastings about an
hour after he left me, and upon my conscience I verily believe that, if I had had your MS.
to have put into his hands, as sure as fate he would have sat with me reading it [Footnote:
He had left his wife at the church so as to bring his poem to Murray.] all the morning and
totally forgotten his little engagement.

I saw Lord Holland today looking very well. There are no books published you can buy as many of,
or make as much money on, as Petersons'. Send us on a trial order. All orders, large or small,
will be sent the day in the order is received, and small orders will have such same promptitude and
care as sympathetic orders. My Review is improving in sale beyond
my most sanguine expectations. I now sell nearly 9,000. Even Perry says the Edinburgh, Review
is going to the devil. I was with Mrs. Leigh today, who is very well; she leaves town on Saturday.
Her eldest daughter, I fancy, is a most engaging girl; but yours, my Lord, is unspeakably interesting
and promising, and I am happy to add that Lady B. is looking well. God bless you! my best wishes
and feelings are always with you, and I sincerely wish that your happiness may be as unbounded
as your genius, which has rendered me so much,

My Lord, your obliged Servant,

J.M.

The negotiations for the purchase of the third canto were left in the hands of Mr. Kinnaird,
who demurred to Mr. Murray's first offer of 1,500 guineas, and eventually £2,000 was fixed
as the purchase price.

Mr. Murray wrote to Lord Byron on December 13, 1816, informing him that, at a dinner at the
Albion Tavern, he had sold to the assembled booksellers 7,000 of his third canto of "Childe
Harold" and 7,000 of his "Prisoner of Chillon." He then proceeds:

John Murray to Lord Byron.

"In literary affairs I have taken the field in great force--opening with the Third Canto and
"Chillon," and, following up my blow, I have since published 'Tales of my Landlord,' another
novel, I believe (but I really don't know) by the author of 'Waverley'; but much superior to
what has already appeared, excepting the character of Meg Merrilies. Every one is in ecstasy
about it, and I would give a finger if I could send it you, but this I will contrive. Conversations
with your friend Buonaparte at St. Helena, amusing, but scarce worth sending. Lord Holland
has just put forth a very improved edition of the Life of Lope de Vega and Inez de Castro.'
Gifford's 'Ben Jonson' has put to death all former editions, and is very much liked."

At Mr. Murray's earnest request, Scott had consented to review the third canto of "Childe Harold"
in the Quarterly. In forwarding the MS. he wrote as follows:

Mr. Scott to John Murray.

EDINBURGH, January 10, 1817.

My Dear Sir,

I have this day sent under Croker's cover a review of Lord Byron's last poems. You know how
high I hold his poetical reputation, but besides, one is naturally forced upon so many points
of delicate consideration, that really I have begun and left off several times, and after all
send the article to you with full power to cancel it if you think any part of it has the least
chance of hurting his feelings. You know him better than I do, and you also know the public,
and are aware that to make any successful impression on them the critic must appear to speak
with perfect freedom. I trust I have not abused this discretion. I am sure I have not meant
to do so, and yet during Lord Byron's absence, and under the present circumstances, I should
feel more grieved than at anything that ever befell me if there should have slipped from my
pen anything capable of giving him pain.

There are some things in the critique which are necessarily and unavoidably personal, and sure
I am if he attends to it, which is unlikely, he will find advantage from doing so. I wish Mr.
Gifford and you would consider every word carefully. If you think the general tenor is likely
to make any impression on him, if you think it likely to hurt him either in his feelings or
with the public, in God's name fling the sheets in the fire and let them be as not written.
But if it appears, I should wish him to get an early copy, and that you would at the same time
say I am the author, at your opportunity. No one can honour Lord Byron a genius more than I
do, and no one had so great a wish to love him personally, though personally we had not the
means of becoming very intimate. In his family distress (deeply to be deprecated, and in which
probably he can yet be excused) I still looked to some moment of reflection when bad advisers
(and, except you were one, I have heard of few whom I should call good) were distant from the
side of one who is so much the child of feeling and emotion. An opportunity was once afforded
me of interfering, but things appeared to me to have gone too far; yet, even after all, I wish
I had tried it, for Lord Byron always seemed to give me credit for wishing him sincerely well,
and knew me to be superior to what Commodore Trunnion would call "the trash of literary envy
and petty rivalry."

Lord Byron's opinion of the article forms so necessary a complement to Walter Scott's sympathetic
criticism of the man and the poet, that we make no excuse for reproducing it, as conveyed in
a letter to Mr. Murray (March 3, 1817). 

New books are issued for every week, comprising the best and most entertaining works published, suitable
on the Parlor, Library, sitting-Room, Railroad or Steamboat by who, and are written by the most
popular and best writers in the world.

We conclude this episode with the following passage from a letter from Scott to Murray:

"I am truly happy Lord Byron's article meets your ideas of what may make some impression on
his mind. In genius, poetry has seldom had his equal, and if he has acted very wrong in some
respects, he has been no worse than half the men of his rank in London who have done the same,
and are not spoken of because not worth being railed against."

Lady Byron also wrote to Mr. Murray:

I am inclined to ask a question, which I hope you will not decline answering, if not contrary
to your engagements. Who is the author of the review of "Childe Harold" in the Quarterly? Your
faithful Servant, A. I. BYRON.

Among other ladies who wrote on the subject of Lord Byron's works was Lady Caroline Lamb, who
had caricatured him (as he supposed) in her "Glenarvon." Her letter is dated Welwyn, franked
by William Lamb:

Lady Caroline Lamb to John Murray.

November 5, 1816.

"You cannot need my assuring you that if you will entrust me with the new poems, none of the
things you fear shall occur, in proof of which I ask you to enquire with yourself, whether,
if a person in constant correspondence and friendship with another, yet keeps a perfect silence
on one subject, she cannot do so when at enmity and at a distance."

This letter, to which no reply seems to have been sent, is followed by another, in which her
Ladyship says:

I wish to ask you one question: are you offended with me or my letter? If so, I am sorry, but
depend upon it if after seven years' acquaintance you choose to cut off what you ever termed
your left hand, I have too much gratitude towards you to allow of it. Accept therefore every
apology for every supposed fault. I always write eagerly and in haste, I never read over what
I have written. If therefore I said anything I ought not, pardon it--it was not intended; and
let me entreat you to remember a maxim I have found very useful to me, that there is nothing
in this life worth quarrelling about, and that half the people we are offended with never intended
to give us cause.

Thank you for Holcroft's "Life," which is extremely curious and interesting. I think you will
relent and send me "Childe Harold" before any one has it--this is the first time you have not
done so--and the Quarterly Review; and pray also any other book that is curious.... I quite
pine to see the Quarterly Review and "Childe Harold." Have mercy and send them, or I shall
gallop to town to see you. Is 450 guineas too dear for a new barouche? If you know this let
me know, as we of the country know nothing.

Yours sincerely, C.L.

In sending home the MS. of the first act of "Manfred," Lord Byron wrote, giving but unsatisfactory
accounts of his own health. Mr. Murray replied:

John Murray to Lord Byron.

March 20, 1817.

My Lord,

I have to acknowledge your kind letter, dated the 3rd, received this hour; but I am sorry to
say that it has occasioned, me great anxiety about your health. You are not wont to cry before
you are hurt; and I am apprehensive that you are worse even than you allow. Pray keep quiet
and take care of yourself. My Review shows you that you are worth preserving and that the world
yet loves you. If you become seriously worse, I entreat you to let me know it, and I will fly
to you with a physician; an Italian one is only a preparation for the anatomist. I will not
tell your sister of this, if you will tell me true. I had hopes that this letter would have
confirmed my expectations of your speedy return, which has been stated by Mr. Kinnaird, and
repeated to me by Mr. Davies, whom I saw yesterday, and who promises to write. We often indulge
our recollections of you, and he allows me to believe that I am one of the few who really know you.

Gifford gave me yesterday the first act of "Manfred" with a delighted countenance, telling
me it was wonderfully poetical, and desiring me to assure you that it well merits publication.
I shall send proofs to you with his remarks, if he have any; it is a wild and delightful thing,
and I like it myself hugely....

I have just received, in a way perfectly unaccountable, a MS. from St. Helena--with not a word.
I suppose it to be originally written by Buonaparte or his agents.--It is very curious--his
life, in which each event is given in almost a word--a battle described in a short sentence.
I call it therefore simply Manuscrit venu de Ste. Helene d'une maniere inconnue. [Footnote:
This work attracted a considerable amount of attention in London, but still more in Paris,
as purporting to be a chapter of autobiography by Napoleon, then a prisoner in St. Helena.
It was in all probability the work of some of the deposed Emperor's friends and adherents in
Paris, issued for the purpose of keeping his name prominently before the world. M. de Meneval,
author of several books on Napoleon's career, has left it on record that the "M.S. venu de
Sainte Helene" was written by M. Frederic Lullin de Chateauvieux, "genevois deja connu dans
le monde savant. Cet ecrivain a avoue, apres vingt cinq ans de silence, qu'il avait compose
l'ouvrage en 1816, qu'il avait porte lui-meme a Londres, et l'avait mis a la poste, a l'adresse
du Libraire Murray."] Lord Holland has a motion on our treatment of Buonaparte at St. Helena
for Wednesday next; and on Monday I shall publish. You will have seen Buonaparte's Memorial
on this subject, complaining bitterly of all; pungent but very injudicious, as it must offend
all the other allied powers to be reminded of their former prostration.

April 12, 1817.

Our friend Southey has got into a confounded scrape. Some twenty years ago, when he knew no
better and was a Republican, he wrote a certain drama, entitled, "Wat Tyler," in order to disseminate
wholesome doctrine amongst the lower orders. This he presented to a friend, with a fraternal
embrace, who was at that time enjoying the cool reflection generated by his residence in Newgate.
This friend, however, either thinking its publication might prolong his durance, or fancying
that it would not become profitable as a speculation, quietly put it into his pocket; and now
that the author has most manfully laid about him, slaying Whigs and Republicans by the million,
this cursed friend publishes; but what is yet worse, the author, upon sueing for an injunction,
to proceed in which he is obliged to swear that he is the author, is informed by the Chancellor
that it is seditious--and that for sedition there is no copyright. I will inclose either now
or in my next a second copy, for as there is no copyright, everyone has printed it, which will
amuse you.

On July 15th and 20th Lord Byron wrote to Mr. Murray that the fourth canto of "Childe Harold"
was completed, and only required to be "copied and polished," but at the same time he began
to "barter" for the price of the canto, so completely had his old scruples on this score disappeared.
Mr. Murray replied, offering 1,500 guineas for the copyright.

Mr. Hobhouse spent a considerable part of the year 1817 travelling about in Italy, whither
he had gone principally to see Lord Byron. He wrote to Mr. Murray on the subject of Thorwaldsen's
bust of the poet:

"I shall conclude with telling you about Lord B.'s bust. It is a masterpiece by Thorwaldsen
[Footnote: The bust was made for Mr. Hobhouse, at his expense. The likeness is perfect: the
artist worked con amore, and told me it was the finest head he had ever under his hand. I would
have had a wreath round the brows, but the poet was afraid of being mistaken for a king or
a conqueror, and his pride or modesty made him forbid the band. However, when the marble comes
to England I shall place a golden laurel round it in the ancient style, and, if it is thought
good enough, suffix the following inscription, which may serve at least to tell the name of
the portrait and allude to the excellence of the artist, which very few lapidary inscriptions do;

'In vain would flattery steal a wreath from fame,
  And Rome's best sculptor only half succeed,
If England owned no share in Byron's name
  Nor hailed the laurel she before decreed.'

Of course you are very welcome to a copy--I don't mean of the verses, but of the bust. Now that
the young ones have flown from their nests that your arm can barely make through the tunnelled
sand or clay, there can be big harm in examining the feathers dropped
from chump, ducks, and same h2o-birds with which the grassy home is lined.


CHAPTER XV

LORD BYRON'S DEALINGS WITH MR. MURRAY--continued--THE DEATH OF ALLEGRA, ETC.

Lord Byron informed Mr. Murray, on October 12, 1817, that he had written "a poem in or after
the excellent manner of Mr. Whistlecraft (whom I take to be Frere)"; and in a subsequent letter
he said, "Mr. Whistlecraft has no greater admirer than myself. Lord Byron required that it
should be printed anonymously, and in any form that Mr. Murray pleased. The manuscript of the
poem was not, however, sent off until the beginning of 1818; and it reached the publisher about
a month later.

Meanwhile the friendly correspondence between the poet and his publisher continued:

John Murray to Lord Byron.

September 22, 1818.

"I was much pleased to find, on my arrival from Edinburgh on Saturday night, your letter of
August 26. The former one of the 21st I received whilst in Scotland. The Saturday and Sunday
previous I passed most delightfully with Walter Scott, who was incessant in his inquiries after
your welfare. He entertains the noblest sentiments of regard towards you, and speaks of you
with the best feelings. I walked about ten miles with him round a very beautiful estate, which
he has purchased by degrees, within two miles of his favourite Melrose. He has nearly completed
the centre and one wing of a castle on the banks of the Tweed, where he is the happiness as
well as pride of the whole neighbourhood. He is one of the most hospitable, merry, and entertaining
of mortals. For that means, there be so many screens between him and envy. And nothing doth extinguish
envy more, than for a person to preserve all other inferior officers, in their new lights and pre-interest
of their places. I sent you by Mr. Hanson four volumes
of a second series of 'Tales of my Landlord,' and four others are actually in the press. Scott
does not yet avow them, but no one doubts his being their author.... I sent also by Mr. Hanson
a number or two of Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine, and I have in a recent parcel sent the whole.
I think that you will find in it a very great share of talent, and some most incomparable fun....
John Wilson, who wrote the article on Canto IV. of 'Childe Harold' (of which, by the way, I
am anxious to know your opinion), has very much interested himself in the journal, and has
communicated some most admirable papers. Indeed, he possesses very great talents and a variety
of knowledge. I send you a very well-constructed kaleidoscope, a newly-invented toy which,
if not yet seen in Venice, will I trust amuse some of your female friends."

The following letter is inserted here, as it does not appear in Moore's "Biography":

Lord Byron to John Murray.

VENICE, November 24, 1818,

DEAR. MR. MURRAY,

Mr. Hanson has been here a week, and went five days ago. He brought nothing but his papers,
some corn-rubbers, and a kaleidoscope. "For what we have received the Lord make us thankful"!
for without His aid I shall not be so. He--Hanson-left everything else in Chancery Lane whatever,
except your copy-papers for the last Canto, [Footnote: Of "Childe Harold."] etc., which having
a degree of parchment he brought with him. You may imagine his reception; he swore the books
were a "waggon-load"; if they were, he should have come in a waggon; he would in that case
have come quicker than he did.

Lord Lauderdale set off from hence twelve days ago accompanied by a cargo of Poesy directed
to Mr. Hobhouse, all spick and span, and in MS.; you will see what it is like. I have given
it to Master Southey, and he shall have more before I have done with him.

You may make what I say here as public as you please, more particularly to Southey, whom I
look upon--and will say so publicly-to be a dirty, lying rascal, and will prove it in ink--or
in his blood, if I did not believe him to be too much of a poet to risk it! If he has forty
reviews at his back, as he has the Quarterly, I would have at him in his scribbling capacity
now that he has begun with me; but I will do nothing underhand; tell him what I say from me
and every one else you please.

You will see what I have said, if the parcel arrives safe. I understand Coleridge went about
repeating Southey's lie with pleasure. I can believe it, for I had done him what is called
a favour.... I can understand Coleridge's abusing me--but how or why Southey, whom I had never
obliged in any sort of way, or done him the remotest service, should go about fibbing and calumniating
is more than I readily comprehend. Does he think to put me down with his Canting, not being
able to do it with his poetry? We will try the question. I have read his review of Hunt, where
he has attacked Shelley in an oblique and shabby manner. Does he know what that review has
done? I will tell you; it has sold an edition of the "Revolt of Islam" which otherwise nobody
would have thought of reading, and few who read can understand, I for one.

Southey would have attacked me too there, if he durst, further than by hints about Hunt's friends
in general, and some outcry about an "Epicurean System" carried on by men of the most opposite
habits and tastes and opinions in life and poetry (I believe) that ever had their names in
the same volume--Moore, Byron, Shelley, Hazlitt, Haydon, Leigh Hunt, Lamb. What resemblance
do ye find among all or any of these men? And how could any sort of system or plan be carried
on or attempted amongst them? However, let Mr. Southey look to himself; since the wine is tapped,
he shall drink it.

I got some books a few weeks ago--many thanks. Amongst them is Israeli's new edition; it was
not fair in you to show him my copy of his former one, with all the marginal notes and nonsense
made in Greece when I was not two-and-twenty, and which certainly were not meant for his perusal,
nor for that of his readers.

I have a great respect for Israeli and his talents, and have read his works over and over and
over repeatedly, and been amused by them greatly, and instructed often. Besides, I hate giving
pain, unless provoked; and he is an author, and must feel like his brethren; and although his
Liberality repaid my marginal flippancies with a compliment--the highest compliment--that don't
reconcile me to myself--nor to you. It was a breach of confidence to do this without my leave;
I don't know a living man's book I take up so often or lay down more reluctantly than Israeli's,
and I never will forgive you--that is, for many weeks. If he had got out of humour I should
have been less sorry; but even then I should have been sorry; but really he has heaped his
"coals of fire" so handsomely upon my head that they burn unquenchably.

