In the solution of the transportation problem the people freely used their political institutions.
Nearly all the numerous canals built after 1825 and several of the early railroads were public
enterprises, undertaken by state governments. However, the states proved unable to cope with
the problem of administering their railways and canals, and surrendered the field of transportation
to private corporations, which were helped to carry out the work by generous and munificent
gifts of land and money from federal, state and local governments.

Unfortunately the federal government did not attempt to establish a satisfactory currency system.
In 1837 and again in 1857 the country was visited by a financial panic due in a large measure
to extravagant speculation, much of which would have been impossible had the issue of money
been properly regulated.

On the whole the period from 1830 to 1860 was one of great prosperity and contentment. The
wealth of the nation grew enormously and for the most part it was equally distributed, there
being few paupers and still fewer very rich individuals. The twenty years following 1840 have
been called the "golden age" of American history, and as far as concerns the diffusion of material
comforts they certainly deserve the name.

Notwithstanding the great material prosperity however, the flames of sectionalism, which had
blazed forth during the contest over the adoption of the "American System" remained unquenched
even after the question of protection had ceased to be an important political issue. Filled
with animosity engendered by the thought that the economic progress of the North had been effected
at the expense of the South, and fearful that the fulminations of the abolitionists and the
successful efforts of the Northern political leaders to restrict the territorial expansion
of slavery only foretold an ultimate intention of destroying that institution altogether, the
Southern partisans decided to sever the political bonds between the two sections, the economic
institutions of which differed so widely, and to establish a separate state whose political
ideals would conform to its economic and social predilections. This decision the Southerners
stood ready to enforce by an appeal to arms; the people of the North, preferring "to accept
war rather than let the nation perish," made ready to prevent the proposed dissolution of the
Union; and the era of general happiness and comfort ended amid the preparations for the impending
struggle.

III

1860-1900

The Civil War marked a notable turning point in the economic history of the United States.
National development since 1860 has been shaped to a large degree by fundamental political
and economic changes that occurred during the war--changes which were for the moat part the
effect of various expedients resorted to by the federal government to bring the struggle for
the preservation of the Union to a successful issue. To crush the military strength of the
South the federal authorities adopted the expedient of the abolition of slavery, and to the
surprise of both the North and the South "the cause of the conflict ceased before the conflict
itself," and the nation emerged from the war freed of the greatest obstacle to its social homogeneity.
To secure revenue for the prosecution of the war, the duties on imports were raised to an unprecedented
point, and when Congress failed, after the return of peace, to reduce the tariff schedules
to their former level, manufacturing interests found themselves protected by a tariff wall
so high that foreign competition was largely eliminated. To secure needed aid in financing
the costly struggle, Congress established the national banking system which gave greater uniformity
to the currency and brought the financial centers of the country into closer relation. The
anxiety to connect the Atlantic and Pacific coasts by rail led the federal government to adopt
the practice of granting large subsidies to the builders of great transcontinental railway
lines. The stimulation which the war gave to manufacturing and transportation in the North
and the shrewd manipulation of the money market during the years of the national crisis made
possible the accumulation and concentration of large quantities of capital funds under the
control of a small number of persons.

It was inevitable that such radical changes would modify the course of industrial progress.
Because of the importance of slavery as the underlying cause of the war, there has been a natural
tendency to regard its abolition as the most striking and significant net result of the great
conflict, but it is to be doubted whether the emancipation of the negro had as great an effect
on subsequent economic development as the other innovations, which were so obscured by the
turmoil of the war that they received but little attention and were regarded as being of much
less significance. The complete transformation in the tariff policy of the nation permitted
the growth of manufacturing to an extent that would have been impossible had the war not occurred;
the construction of the transcontinental railroads had an immeasurable effect on the development
of the great region west of the Missouri river; the concentration of capital provided the means
by which industrial enterprises could be carried out on a gigantic scale; the establishment
of a uniform currency and a better banking system accelerated the growth of industry and trade.
It is in these changes that one finds the key to much of the economic history of the United
States since the Civil War.

The period from 1860 to 1900 was one of development and exploitation. The years prior to the
Civil War had been marked by the advance of the political dominion of the United States to
the Pacific Ocean, and at the same time the nation had enjoyed an era of notable agricultural,
industrial and commercial prosperity, especially in the states east of the Mississippi River.
However, the tremendous possibilities of the country were only beginning to be realized in
1860, and remarkable as was development before that year, it was completely eclipsed by the
amazing progress made during the latter part of the century. An abundance of unoccupied land,
of rich and varied natural resources, favorable climatic conditions, a complete absence of
checks on individual initiative and enterprise and of restrictions on internal communication
and trade, and the encouragement afforded to industry by the liberal policies of the federal
government all combined to create economic opportunities of boundless scope. Labor, capital
and transportation facilities alone were needed and as these increased the wealth production
of the United States multiplied with astonishing rapidity. The extension of the railway system
permitted the constant growth of agriculture and rendered accessible the mineral and forest
products in which the land abounded; cheap and plentiful raw materials from field, mine and
forest, made possible a phenomenal increase of manufacturing. Multitudes of European immigrants,
eager to share in the wealth of the new world, poured in and recruited the labor force necessary
for the industrial conquest; and the invention and application of labor-saving machinery of
every description increased many fold the effectiveness of the effort of each individual. All
parts of the country participated in the material progress. The South, issuing quickly from
the almost abject state of prostration in which it was left by the ravages of a disastrous
war, became more prosperous and flourishing than ever; the Northern States east of the Mississippi
constantly increased their agricultural production, and at the same time became one of the
greatest manufacturing and mining districts in the world; on the prairie lands west of the
Mississippi a new cereal kingdom was founded; the western plains were converted into great
live stock ranches; the forests, orchards and grain fields of the Pacific States proved to
be an even greater source of wealth than were their mines of gold and silver.

In the forty years following 1860 the number of people in the United States, exclusive of outlying
possessions, rose from 31,000,000 to 76,000,000, the wealth of the nation grew from $16,000,000,000
to $89,000,000,000. These figures convey some idea of the progress of the country as a whole.
Such an advance was possible only by the most rapid expansion of all the numerous lines of
industry to which the resources and energies of the nation were devoted.

The growth of agriculture proceeded on a magnificent scale. Within two decades after the war
the United States assumed the leading place among all nations of the world in the production
of grain and live stock, maintaining at the same time its supremacy as a producer and exporter
of cotton and tobacco. Countless thousands of acres of virgin soil west of the Mississippi
River were given away under the provisions of the famous Homestead Act of 1862 and by 1880
the continent was practically settled from one coast to the other. The area of farm lands increased
from 407,000,000 acres in 1859 to 841,000,000 acres in 1899, and the value of farm property
rose from $8,000,000,000 to $21,000,000,000. The application of machinery to the cultivation
of the soil and the substitution of horse and steam power for manual labor multiplied the productivity
of each unit of land and labor. In 1899 the country produced from its fields 4,500,000,000
bushels of cereals, 9,500,000 bales of cotton, 79,000,000 tons of hay and 868,000,000 pounds
of tobacco. The value of the live stock that year was $3,000,000,000, and the production of
dairy products, poultry and eggs amounted to $750,000,000.

The output of the mines increased in value from $219,000,000 in 1869 to $1,107,000,000 in 1899.
Over 240,000,000 tons of coal, 27,000,000 tons of iron ore, 270,000 tons of copper, and 63,000,000
barrels of petroleum were taken from the earth during the latter year.

The most significant feature of the economic history of the United States between 1860 and
1900 was the rise of manufacturing. The radical change in tariff policy, the rapid expansion
of the home market due to the tremendous growth of agriculture and the spread of railroads,
and the presence of an unlimited amount of cheap fuel and raw materials all combined to make
manufacturing in some respects the dominant industry of the country. The value of the products
of manufactures in 1899 reached a total of $13,000,000,000.

Simultaneously with the expansion of agriculture, the exploitation of natural resources and
the rise of manufacturing, partly as an effect of them but almost equally as a cause, came
the development of the great transportation system. This was the era of the railroad. Immediately
after the war there began a period of extensive construction, over 35,000 miles of line being
laid between 1865 and 1874. The first transcontinental line was completed in 1869. Unfortunately
the enormous increase of mileage during these years was considerably in excess of the needs
of the country, and the speculative fever which attended the expansion resulted in the panic
of 1873. After a period of depression of five years there was a second and much greater revival
of construction. Between 1878 and 1890 over 85,000 miles of new track were laid, including
four transcontinental tracks completed and others partially finished. By 1900 there were 199,000
miles of railroad spreading a vast net over the entire country.

The important result of the growth and improvement of railways was the great reduction in the
cost of transportation. At the close of the period before the war it had been demonstrated
that railroads could economically carry high grade freight such as flour, live stock, lighter
manufactured goods and general merchandise, but as yet they had been unable to compete successfully
with waterways for the transportation of grain, and the carriage for long distances of such
low-grade freight as coal and ore had not been attempted. As the railway developed, however,
its use was extended, and it was soon found that there was no commodity so cheap that it could
not be profitably handled. Accompanying the extension of the service to include all kinds of
bulky freight there was an uninterrupted decline in the general level of rates on all classes
of goods, resulting from the increased efficiency of roads, the stress of competition, and
above all from the tremendous increase of traffic. The rate per ton per mile decreased from
1.92 cents in 1867 to 0.73 of a cent in 1900. This reduction of transportation charges was
one of the most potent factors determining the course of economic progress. Field, mine, forest
and store were linked together into a unified whole; raw materials could be concentrated at
any point and there was practically no limit to the extent of the market for finished commodities.
The increase of the tonnage of railway freight from less than 20,000,000 tons in 1860 to almost
600,000,000 tons in 1900 is the best index of the growth of internal trade during this period.

As the railways increased in importance, transportation on most of the inland waterways declined.
Nearly 1,700 miles of canals were abandoned between 1860 and 1900. After 1880 there was a gradual
decrease of nearly all canal and river traffic. The Great Lakes were practically the only inland
waterway that retained an important position in internal trade. The unusually favorable conditions
prevailing for the growth of traffic on these bodies of water enabled their commerce to thrive
and expand at a rate which compared favorably at all times with the growth of railway traffic.

Commerce has been aptly defined as "taking things from where they are plentiful to where they
are needed." This being true, the volume of internal commerce of any country must depend upon
the number of its people, the total volume of its production, the sectional diversity of its
products, the efficiency and cheapness of its transportation, and the freedom from foreign
competition in the sale of native commodities in home markets. In the economic progress of
the United States from 1860 to 1900, there was a continuous and rapid development of all the
requisite factors for the existence of a large internal trade. Population more than doubled,
annual production per capita quadrupled, the diversification of industry became more pronounced
and the transportation system developed to a degree that afforded the utmost fluidity of movement
of all articles of trade. Furthermore, the range of movement of internal trade was greatly
widened by the settlement of the vast expanse of new country west of the Mississippi River.

The extent, volume and complexity of internal trade during this period render it impossible
to attempt, within the scope of this paper, to give a connected account of its development.
However, some idea of its wonderful expansion may be conveyed by the following brief statement
of the growth of the movement of some of the most important commodities.

Cereals and Flour. The history of the internal grain trade from 1860 to 1900 centers around
the receipts and shipments at the great primary grain markets situated on the Great Lakes and
the rivers of the upper Mississippi Valley. In 1900 the chief surplus cereal area of the United
States comprised a vast stretch of territory included in a semicircle described by a southern
and western sweep of a compass moving on a radius extending from Duluth to Buffalo. Three-fourths
of the 4,500,000,000 bushels of grain were raised in the twelve states embraced in this territory.
The ten most important markets in the region, each of which was receiving annually from 10,000,000
to 300,000,000 bushels of grain, were Chicago, Minneapolis, Duluth-Superior, St. Louis, Milwaukee,
Toledo, Kansas City, Peoria, Cincinnati and Detroit. From each of these points there radiated
toward the South and West a network of railways over which grain came from the farming districts
and over some of which there was a return movement of flour and grain for domestic consumption
or for exportation from Gulf ports, while stretching to the eastward were numerous rail and
water lines by which an immense cereal and flour traffic was carried to the manufacturing districts
and exporting cities of the Atlantic coast. In 1900 the ten markets named received about 850,000,000
bushels of grain, including flour, and shipped 650,000,000 bushels.

Live Stock and Meat. The extension of railroads to the grazing lands of the West and the tremendous
increase of corn production in the Mississippi Valley after 1860 gave a great impetus to live
stock raising. Like the trade in grain the trade in live stock centered around a series of
great cities located centrally within easy reach of the producing sections on one side and
of the consuming region on the other. To these primary markets the railroads carried thousands
of car loads of stock--horses and mules for distribution among the farms and cities of the
East and South, cattle, hogs and sheep for slaughter at the packing houses at the primary markets,
for distribution among the farms of the Central States to be fattened for subsequent killing,
or for shipment to the slaughter pens of Eastern cities.

Until 1863 Cincinnati was the chief meat packing city of the country, but in that year Chicago
took the lead and has held it ever since, and as the live stock industry shifted westward,
St. Louis, Kansas City, Milwaukee, Indianapolis, Omaha and St. Joseph in turn surpassed Cincinnati
in the business. The trade in meat was revolutionized during this period by the introduction
of the refrigerator car which made possible the transportation of fresh meat for any distance.
The total value of the products of wholesale slaughtering and meat packing in 1900 amounted
in value to $700,000,000, of which more than one-half was produced in three cities, Chicago,
Kansas City and South Omaha. In Chicago alone 2,000,000 cattle and 22,000,000 hogs were packed.
The chief market for the numerous products of the packing establishments was in the manufacturing
districts of the East. The eastbound rail shipments of provisions from Chicago in 1900 averaged
about 20,000 tons a week.

Cotton. The geographical limits of the cotton belt had been reached before 1860 and consequently
there was no further extension, but the cotton acreage was increased from about 13,000,000
acres to more than 30,000,000 acres during the period. Texas in 1900 had over 7,000,000 acres
of land devoted to cotton raising and seven more of the thirteen states in the cotton belt
each had an acreage of more than 1,000,000. The chief interior cotton markets in 1898 were
Houston, St. Louis, Memphis, Augusta, Cincinnati, Atlanta, Little Rock and Shreveport. The
city of Houston, through which passed a large part of the Texas crops, destined for export
from Galveston, had the heaviest receipts amounting to 1,800,000 bales. St. Louis and Cincinnati
owed their prominence to their position as natural gateways through which cotton passed to
Northern markets from Texas and the lower valley of the Mississippi. Among the Southern seaports
New Orleans held the lead in cotton receipts until 1899, when Galveston took first place. Together
these two cities shipped nine-tenths of the cotton exported by the way of the Gulf of Mexico.
On the Atlantic coast Savannah held the lead in cotton receipts. The trade of Charleston declined
somewhat after 1880; Norfolk and Wilmington, of relatively small importance before the war,
became large markets during this period, the former ranking next to Savannah after 1880.

The "overland movement" of cotton by rail to the North, which began in 1855, developed to large
proportions after the war. This movement represented the results of the efforts of the railroads
to secure a share of the traffic that had formerly belonged entirely to the coasting trade.
The "overland" traffic originated in all the cotton states, most of it passing through St.
Louis and the gateways on the Ohio and Potomac rivers to North Atlantic States to be sold to
Eastern spinners or exported to Europe. In 1899 the all-rail movement of cotton amounted to
1,370,000 bales, as compared to a coastwise movement of 2,019,153 bales.

A noteworthy feature of the cotton trade of this period was the increase of cotton consumption
in the South. After 1885 there was a rapid expansion of cotton manufacturing in several Southern
States, and in 1899 their mills used 1,400,000 bales of cotton, only a third less than the
number of bales consumed in Northern mills. The decline of cotton receipts at Charleston was
largely due to the growth of cotton manufacturing in South Carolina, whose mills were consuming
more than one-half of the annual product of the state at the close of the century.

Coal. Previous to 1860 practically all the coal shipped from the anthracite districts in Pennsylvania
was transported to Philadelphia and New York where it was consumed or carried coastwise to
points along the Atlantic seaboard. The movement to Eastern points continued to constitute
the largest part of the anthracite trade after 1860, but a trade toward the West also sprang
up. The chief route for this traffic was by canal or rail to Buffalo, from where it was distributed
among other ports on the Great Lakes. Another important movement was to Pittsburgh, large quantities
being shipped thither for distribution westward by rail.

Until the early sixties the production of bituminous coat was less than that of anthracite,
but with the increase of manufacturing the production of the former increased rapidly and by
1900 the output, amounting to 190,000,000 tons, was nearly four times the output of anthracite.
The great fields of Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Maryland and Ohio turned out much more than
one-half of the bituminous coal mined during this period. From these fields there were large
shipments in all directions. The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal and the southern trunk line railroads
carried a heavy tonnage to the cities on the Atlantic seaboard; millions of tons were floated
down the Ohio River; the railroads took immense quantities westward for consumption among the
Central States, a large part of it being distributed by water from all the lake ports on the
southern shore of Lake Erie. The second great center of bituminous coal trade was in the fields
of Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, Missouri and Kansas, whence the numerous cities of that district
drew most of their large fuel supplies. The third important center of production, which was
developed very rapidly after 1885, was the Alabama and Tennessee field. It provided fuel for
the growing manufacturing industries of the south-eastern portion of the country and competed
for the coal trade of points on the lower Mississippi.

Iron Ore, Iron and Steel. The development of the movement of iron ore from the mines around
Lake Superior to the furnaces of the Eastern States was one of the most interesting features
of the internal trade of the United States during this entire period. This trade grew in volume
from less than 1,000,000 tons in 1870 to 18,000,000 tons in 1899, the shipments during the
latter year comprising two-thirds of the total iron ore production of the whole country. Practically
the entire traffic went by lake vessels to ports on Lake Erie and Lake Michigan whence it was
taken by rail to the blast furnaces of Pennsylvania, Ohio, New York and Illinois.

No other industry in the United States had a more remarkable growth after 1860 than the iron
and steel industry. The production of pig iron in 1899 was nearly 15,000,000 tons, and of crude
steel almost 11,000,000 tons. Pennsylvania contributed about one-half of the entire output
of both pig iron and steel during the forty years, Ohio ranking second. The pig iron industry
began to expand rapidly in Alabama and Illinois in the early eighties, and by 1900 the output
of these two states constituted a fifth of the total product. The immense output of iron and
steel was distributed everywhere throughout the country. A large part of it was used in building
the railroads and the remainder was utilized as the raw material for the manufacture of a great
variety of iron and steel products that were used in all branches of industry.

Lumber. The forests of the United States were subjected to a rapid and often wasteful exploitation
during these years. Extensive building operations, the construction and maintenance of an enormous
railway mileage and the growth of manufacturing created a heavy demand for timber, and by 1900
the annual cut amounted to 35,000,000,000 feet. The northeastern group of states which had
formed the chief source of lumber supply before 1860, lost precedence by 1880 to the lake states,
Michigan, Wisconsin and Minnesota. The tremendous consumption of timber throughout the country
rapidly depleted the supply in this district and by 1900 the yellow pine of the South was being
heavily drawn upon, forming a fourth of the production of the country. The timber lands of
the Pacific coast contributed more than 2,000,000,000 feet a year after 1890, and the shipments
of lumber and shingles from this region to the interior were beginning to take on very large
proportions.

Manufactures. In 1859 the New England and Middle Atlantic States produced nearly three-fourths
of the total manufactured products of the United States, and these two groups together with
the Central States reported more than 80 per cent of the product of manufactures of each census
year thereafter. In general, it may be said that the rest of the country was dependent upon
these sections for its manufactured goods. The fact that over one-half of the product of 1899
came from five states, New York, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Massachusetts and Ohio, serves to
designate still more clearly the chief centers of trade in manufactured goods. Of the fifteen
leading manufacturing cities in 1899, twelve were located east of the Mississippi River and
two were situated on its west bank. New York City alone produced in 1899 one-tenth of all the
manufactures of the country and Chicago and Philadelphia together produced another tenth. The
localization of many industries within the manufacturing belt itself was an important factor
in determining the course of internal trade between the manufacturing states and the rest of
the country and among the manufacturing states themselves, which were the largest consumers
as well as the largest producers of manufactured goods. The increase in the value of the products
of manufactures from $2,000,000,000 in 1859 to $13,000,000,000 in 1899 gives an idea of the
expansion in the trade in manufactured commodities, the details of which it is impossible here
to consider.

There were no other articles the movements of which equalled in importance those of the various
commodities discussed above, but there were many that contributed a tonnage of large volume
and value to internal trade. Dairy products, poultry and eggs, wool, hay, sugar, tobacco, fruits
and vegetables from the farms, petroleum, gas, copper, stone and many other valuable mineral
products, and the large annual quantity of imports of food products, manufactures and raw materials
entering the seaports to be distributed among interior markets helped to swell the volume of
traffic that moved from place to place within the country.

Conclusion. A most interesting and significant feature of the history of the United States
during this period was the transition in the character of the economic problems of the country.
Until the time of the Civil War its chief problems had been those of securing the means to
develop its resources, of acquiring the facilities for transporting its products from place
to place, and of providing markets in which its products could be sold. As capital, population
and transportation facilities were provided to exploit the latent wealth of the continent it
was found that out of their presence grew far larger and more vital problems than their absence
had ever created. The economic difficulties of the nation after the Civil War arose chiefly
because of the existence of the things which before 1860 it was a question of acquiring.

In no instance was this general proposition better demonstrated than in the railroad problem.
For nearly sixty years of the nineteenth century the chief obstacle to internal trade had been
the lack of the means of transportation. To overcome this difficulty the states had first built
their own canals and railroads. Many of the state enterprises failing because of weak administration,
the states had surrendered the management of railroads to private corporations, but the public
continued to share in railroad construction through numerous grants of aid by federal, state
and local governments. For a number of years almost the only activity of the public in regard
to railroads was to foster and protect the interests of the railroad companies. In the seventies
the public gradually came to a realization of the fact that the railroad companies were displaying
a lamentable lack of regard for the interests of the public. Persons and communities found
themselves entirely at the mercy of railroad corporations, which, by vicious discriminations,
built up and destroyed where they chose, and even endeavored to control arbitrarily the economic
future of entire groups of states regardless of their natural advantages or the choice of their
people. And not only did the railroad companies themselves become a source of danger, but they
were instrumental in the creation and development of great industrial combinations, which were
equally indifferent to the welfare of the general public. The transportation problem of the
United States was no longer that of providing facilities, but of controlling and regulating
the existing facilities in such a manner that reasonable rates and services would be given
to the public which had entrusted the business of transportation to private agencies. The demand
for relief was first voiced in state legislation. The states being powerless to regulate interstate
trade, the national government found it necessary to act, and, in 1887, the Interstate Commerce
Law was passed, having for its chief purpose the prevention of unjust discrimination. As a
regulative measure the law proved inadequate, its most important provisions being emasculated
by court decisions, and the century ended with effective railway regulation unaccomplished.

No less pressing than the problem of regulating railroads, over which the internal commerce
of the nation was carried on, was the question of regulating the great industrial combinations
through which a large part of the buying and selling of the products of the country was controlled.
The unfair advantages secured by large combinations because of their abundance of capital and
the discriminating favors of railroads enabled them often to throttle competition and to establish
monopolies that were a menace to the public. This situation likewise called forth federal legislative
measures intended to prevent the monopolization of trade. Previous to 1900, however, but little
application of the law was made.

To the tariff and to the currency the nation owed its most bitter political struggles after
the reconstruction of the Union was accomplished. The net result of a half dozen efforts to
modify the tariff was the existence, at the end of a century, of a tariff law in which the
general average of duties was 10 per cent higher than the average at the close of the Civil
War. The currency system of the nation, with the exception of the improvement in banking, became
worse instead of better after the war, the chief trouble arising because of the adoption of
measures intended to satisfy insistent demands for a greater volume of money, without making
provision for its retirement when business conditions were such as to warrant a contraction
of circulation. A quarter of a century of struggle finally ended in the overthrow of the advocates
of the unlimited issue of cheap money, but no attempt was made before 1900 to remedy the inelasticity
of the national currency or to check the tendency toward a concentration of the control of
credit in a few financial centers. In 1873 and in 1893 the country suffered from money panics,
the latter one being due almost entirely to unwise financial measures that had virtually bankrupted
the government and destroyed confidence in the money it issued.

The end of the century was reached with only a little headway made in the solution of the most
vital economic problems. In striking contrast to the "golden age" of American history, noted
for the absence of both pauperism and great riches, this period saw the development of the
extremes of poverty and wealth, and, furthermore, an ever-growing tendency toward the concentration
of the national wealth under the control of a few powerful interests. The disregard which too
many of these interests evinced for the welfare of the general public and the power which they
possessed to thwart the efforts of the public to protect itself created most of the great questions
which confronted the nation--questions of such serious nature as to dim the record of achievement
and material progress from 1860 to 1900.

However there was ample evidence that the national consciousness was beginning to take cognizance
of much of the prevailing maladjustment and was awakening to a sense of duty--long undone.
A growing sense of personal responsibility both on the part of those who suffered from existing
conditions and on the part of those who profited by them was paving the way for a speedy application
and a willing acceptance of a system of conservative public regulation of private business
in which careful consideration would be given to the rights of all persons. In the intelligent
realization of the meaning of the existing situation lay the basis of a dear perception of
the proper steps to be taken and a strong hope for the immediate future.