"Listen," she said, and her voice, gentle though it was, had in it a new quality which awed
and impressed the hearer.  "Listen!--there is not one single minute to spare.  If there was
a train at half-past three, I should catch that, box or no box, for father is dying, Aunt Margaret--he
would not have let me be summoned like this for any passing ailment. Nothing in all the world
would make me wait here until to-morrow, so please, dear, do not hinder me now.  I know it
is impossible for you to come with me, but I will telegraph the moment I arrive, and if--if
there is still time, you can follow then."

"But you can't travel alone!  Edward would not like it.  He is so particular.  How can you
manage about the trains?"

"Listen!  I have thought of that too.  Put on your bonnet and go to the telephone office at
the corner.  Ask the people at the agency if they can possibly send a lady courier to meet
me at the train at Charing Cross.  If they can, very well!  If they can't, I am twenty-two,
and can speak French easily, and am not afraid of travelling by myself.  I will telegraph to
Cook's agent to meet me in Paris, if it will make you any happier, but I am going, auntie dear,
and I have not a moment to spare. I will get dressed now, and the cab must be here in half
an hour."

Miss Munns turned without a word, and left the room.  She had the sense to know when she was
beaten, and, having once faced the situation, set to work in her usual business-like fashion,
and proved the most capable of helpers.  Having been successful in arranging for a lady courier
through the convenient medium of the telephone, she returned home to write labels, fasten together
cloaks and umbrellas, and order a hasty but tempting little meal for the refreshment of the
traveller.  This accomplished, she returned once more to the bedroom, where Sylvia was putting
the last touches to her packing.

"Nearly finished?  That's right, my dear.  You have eight minutes still, and tea is waiting
for you downstairs.  Don't trouble to tidy the room, I'll attend to that after you have gone.
All these things on the bed-- they had better be packed away in the attics, I suppose.  It's
a pity they were ever bought, as things have turned out.  You may never need them now."

"No, I may never need them now!" said Sylvia steadily.  "In one minute, aunt, just one minute.
You go down and pour out my tea, and I'll follow immediately.  I've just one thing more I want
to do."

"Don't dawdle, then--don't dawdle!  Mary will fasten the straps--don't wait for that."

Miss Munns departed, unwillingly enough, and Sylvia shut the door after her, and gave a swift
step back towards the bed.  The satin dress, and the fan, and the gloves, and the jaunty little
shoes lay there looking precisely the same as they had done an hour ago--the only difference
was in the eyes which beheld them.

Sylvia had read of a bride who was buried in her wedding dress, and she felt at this moment
as if she were leaving her own girlhood behind, with that mass of dainty white finery.  What
lay in the future she could not tell; only one thing seemed certain, that those few words on
the slip of brown paper had made a great chasm of separation between it and the past.  The
opportunity for which she had longed was not to be hers; she must leave England without so
much as a word of farewell to the friends who of late had filled such a large part of her life.

If her plans had been frustrated by one of the annoying little contretemps of daily life, Sylvia
would have exhausted herself in lamentations and repinings, but she was dumb before this great
catastrophe, which came so obviously from a higher Hand.  When her father lay dying, there
was no regret in her heart for a lost amusement, but this hurried departure might mean more--much
more than the forfeiture of Esmeralda's hospitality.  She stretched out her hand, and smoothed
the satin folds with a very tender touch.

"Good-bye!" she whispered softly, in the silence of the room.  "Good- bye, Jack!"

CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR.

TOO LATE.

Sylvia's journey was quiet and uneventful, and her companion was tactfully silent, leaving
her at peace to think her own thoughts.  As time passed by, the natural hopefulness of youth
reasserted itself, and she began to think that she had been too hasty in taking it for granted
that her father was hopelessly ill.

After all he had not despatched the telegram; it had been signed by his friends, the Nisbets,
who, no doubt, were unwilling to accept a position of responsibility.  When she arrived she
would nurse him so devotedly, would surround him with such an atmosphere of love and care,
that he could not help recovering and growing strong once more.  He would be longing to see
her, poor dear old dad, working himself into an invalid's nervous dread lest they might never
meet again, as she herself had done a few months earlier, and the sight of his child would
be his best medicine.

They left the train and took their places in the boat.  It was a cloudless summer afternoon,
and the white cliffs stood out in striking contrast to the blue sky and sea.  What a change
from the big grey city which even now was beginning to grow close and dusty, what a glorious
open prospect for one who had been shut up for months in the confines of a narrow street, and
yet Rutland Road had been far more beautiful to one voyager at least, for at that moment, exactly
at that moment, as timed by the little watch at her wrist, Jack O'Shaughnessy would have turned
the corner of the main road to saunter towards his own home.

Jack always sauntered, with the air of a gentleman at large who had never known the necessity
of hurry.  Sylvia had watched him many times from the shelter of her window curtains, and knew
exactly how he would carry his head, and twirl his stick, and glance rapidly across the road
as he unlatched the gate.  Pixie would open the door and breathlessly unfold the news with
which she had by this time been made acquainted, and how would Jack look then?  Would the smile
fade away, would he feel as if all zest and interest had departed from the evening entertainment,
or would he make the best of things in happy O'Shaughnessy fashion and console himself in Mollie's
smiles?

The breeze grew fresher and more chill, and the stars began to peep; the travellers had reached
the shores of France; and far-away in London Esmeralda's guests were beginning to arrive, the
carriages were jostling one another in the narrow street.  Then came Paris, and a space for
rest and refreshment before starting on the next stage of the journey.

Sylvia had hoped that a telegram might be waiting for her at this point, but none was forthcoming,
and its absence was a bitter disappointment despite the old adage that no news is good news.
She sat in the big deserted buffet, drinking bouillon and eating poulet and salad; and catching
sight of her own pallid reflection in one of the mirrors, smiled feebly at the contrast between
the present and the "might have been"!  This white-faced, weary-looking girl was surely not
the Sylvia Trevor whose day-dreams had woven such golden things about this very hour.

The lady courier engaged a sleeping compartment for the first stage of the long journey to
Marseilles, but though it was a comfort to lie down and stretch her weary limbs, there was
little sleep for Sylvia that night.  She was up and gazing out of the window by six o'clock
in the morning, and the day seemed endless despite the interest of the scenes through which
she passed.

The lines which she had read in her youth came back to memory as the train crossed the broad
waters of the Loire and sped through valleys of grapes and olives, surrounded by hills of smiling
green.  The sun was hot in these southern plains, and the dust blew in clouds through the windows;
it was a relief when evening fell again, and brought the end of the long journey.

Sylvia stepped on to the platform and looked around with eager gaze. Although she had never
met her father's friends, she knew their appearance sufficiently well from photographs and
descriptions to be able to distinguish them from strangers, but nowhere could she see either
husband or wife.  It was unkind to leave her unwelcomed and with no word to allay her anxiety,
and she had hard work to keep back her tears as her companion ran about collecting the scattered
pieces of luggage.

She was so tired mentally and physically that this last disappointment was too much for her
endurance, and she thanked God that in a few minutes the strain would be over, and she would
be seated by her father's side.  They drove along the quaint, foreign streets, and presently
arrived at the hotel itself, a large building set back in a courtyard in which visitors sat
before little tables, smoking and drinking their after-dinner coffee.

They looked up curiously as Sylvia passed, but no one came forward to meet her, and the waiter
gesticulated dumbly in answer to her questionings, and led the way upstairs without vouchsafing
a word in reply.  It was humiliating to think that her accent had so degenerated as to be unrecognisable
in his ears, but there was no other explanation, and it was at least evident that she was expected,
since he seemed in no doubt as to where to conduct her first.  He turned down a corridor to
the right, stopped at the second door, and threw it open, and Sylvia saw with surprise that
it was not a bedroom, but a sitting-room, in which a lady and a gentleman were already seated.

The gentleman leapt to his feet, wheeled round and stood with his face to the window; the lady
shrank back into her chair, then suddenly jumped up and ran forward with outstretched hands.
It was Mrs Nisbet, though looking older and more worn than Sylvia had expected to see her,
and nothing could have been kinder or more affectionate than her greeting.

"My dear child--my poor dear child, how tired you must be!  You have had an awful journey.
Come in, dear, and rest a few minutes while I will make some tea for you.  English people always
like tea, don't they?  And I will make it myself, so that it shall be good.  Come, dear, sit
down! Let me take off your hat."

She stroked the girl's cheek with her hand--such a hot, trembling hand-- and there was an odd,
excited thrill in her voice which filled Sylvia with a vague alarm.  She stepped back a step,
and drew herself up straight and determined.

"Thank you very much, but I don't want any tea.  I want to go at once to father.  It has been
such a long, long journey.  I mustn't waste any more time!"

"No, no, but you are not ready just this moment.  You must have something to strengthen you
first.  If you won't wait for tea, here is some wine.  Drink a glass, dear, do.  To please me!"

Sylvia stared at her fixedly, and from her to that other figure which stood motionless by the
window without so much as a glance for his friend's child.  A cold fear seized her in its grip,
the room swam before her eyes, and out of the confusion she heard a weak voice saying brokenly,
"Tell me quickly, please!  It won't help me to drink wine. Father--"

Mrs Nisbet burst into a passion of tears, and clasped the girl tightly in her arms.

"You are too late, dear.  An hour too late!  We did everything we could. He left you his last
love and blessing."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It was all over.  The two long days of waiting, the last glimpse of dad's still face, the funeral
in the foreign cemetery, and Sylvia sat alone in the hotel sitting-room, striving to recover
sufficiently from the shock to decide on the next step which lay before her.

In the crushing weight of the new sorrow it seemed as if it were impossible to go on living
at all, yet it was absolutely necessary to make her plans, for she could not be an indefinite
burden on her father's friends.  They had come home to enjoy a hard-earned rest, and as the
holiday had begun so sadly there was all the more reason why the remainder should be passed
under cheerful conditions.  Mr and Mrs Nisbet had pressed the girl to spend the next few months
travelling in their company, but Sylvia was resolute in her refusal.

"I should be a constant care to you, and a constant kill-joy, and that would be a poor return
for all you have done for me," she said sadly. "It will comfort me all my life to remember
that you were with dad during those last dreadful days, and some day I should like very much
to visit you when I can be a pleasure instead of a burden.  It does not seem now as if I could
ever be happy again, but I suppose it will come in time."

"It will, if you trust in God and ask Him to help you.  He sends troubles to teach us lessons,
dear, and to draw our thoughts to Him, but never, never to make us miserable," said Mrs Nisbet
softly.  "You did not feel that you had lost your father when he was far-off in India, and
he is a great deal nearer to you now in the spirit world.  Never think of him as in the grave,
think of him in heaven, and it will grow dear and home-like to you just because he is there.
It would have grieved him to the heart to see your young life clouded, so you must try to be
happy for his sake.  I don't mean by that that you can be lively, or care for the old amusements;
that can only come with time; but unhappiness comes from rebellion against God's will, and
if you submit to that and leave your life in His hands, you will find that all the sting has
gone out of your trouble."

The slow tears rose and stood in Sylvia's eyes.

"Thank you!" she said meekly.  "I will try, but it's hard to be resigned when one is young,
and all one's life seems shattered.  I don't know what to do next.  Every arrangement so far
has been made, `till dad comes home,' and now that hope has gone, and what am I to do?  I have
no home, and no work, and nobody needs me.  Aunt Margaret would take me in, of course, but
she would not like it as a permanency any more than I should myself.  She has her own way,
and I have mine, and we did not agree very well.  She was very kind when she thought I was
going away, but at the bottom of her heart she was glad.  She doesn't need me, you see!  I
don't help her at all."

"But you could make her need you!  You could help her if you went back determined to make it
your work in life!"

Mrs Nisbet took the girl's hand in hers and pressed it gently, and Sylvia looked into her face
with miserable, honest eyes.

"Yes--I could!  I could shut my lips up tight and never answer back, and look interested when
I was bored, and go little walks up and down the terrace, and play cribbage when I wanted to
read, and read aloud dull books when I wanted to read lively ones to myself, and pretend to
like what I really hate and detest."

"Poor lassie!  It does sound dull.  I'll tell you a secret, though.  It would not be pretence
very long, for it is one of the blessed recompenses in life that if we conquer self, and perform
a duty whole- heartedly and cheerfully, it is distasteful no longer, but becomes more interesting
than we could have believed possible in the old rebellious days."

"Does it?  But I don't think I quite want to be satisfied with that kind of life," Sylvia said
slowly.  "I don't wish to seem disrespectful, but really and truly Aunt Margaret's ideas are
terribly narrow and old- fashioned, and I shouldn't like it a bit if I were like her when I
was old.  I have managed pretty well so far, for I had nice friends, and was always looking
forward to the time when I should have my own home, but don't you understand how different
it is now, and how dreary it seems to settle down to it as a permanency?"  She looked up wistfully
in Mrs Nisbet's face, and met a smile of kindest understanding.

"But there is no necessity to grieve over the future, child!  At your age arrangements are
rarely `permanent,' and you are concerned only with the next step.  It seems for the moment
as if it were the right course to return to London, so try to look upon the situation from
a new standpoint, and face it bravely.  Forget your aunt's shortcomings, and remember only
that she is your father's only remaining relative, the playmate and companion of his youth,
and that you are connected by a common sorrow and a common loss.  Set yourself to brighten
her life, and to fill it with wider interests; forget yourself, in short, and think about other
people.  When you have learned that lesson, dear, you will have solved the great secret of
life, and found the key to happiness and peace of mind."

"Yes," sighed Sylvia faintly.  It sounded very sweet and very beautiful, but, oh, so terribly
difficult to accomplish!  If it had been a big thing, on great, heroic sacrifice which she
was called upon to make, she could have braced herself to the effort, and have borne it with
courage, but the little daily pin-pricks, the chafings of temper, the weariness of uncongenial
companionship--these were the hardest test, the most cruel tax upon endurance.

Day after day, week after week, month after month, the same uneventful, monotonous existence--and
suppose for one moment that Jack married Mollie Burrell, and Bridgie returned to her Irish
home!  Sylvia shivered and shut her eyes as at an unbearable prospect, and Mrs Nisbet's voice
said softly in her ear--

"`I do not ask to see the distant scene.  One step enough for me!'  Take each day as it comes,
dear, and try to live it bravely without thinking of to-morrow.  We will travel with you as
far as Paris, and have a few days together before you go on to London.  I wish you would have
stayed with us longer, but perhaps it will be better for us all to be apart for a time, and
meet again later on.  We shall be in London in autumn, and one of my first visits will be to
you.  Your father has been like a brother to my husband for years past, and we shall always
feel a very close interest in your welfare.

"By the way, dear, how are you off for money?  Would it be a convenience if I lent you some
to pay for mourning and the return journey?  You came away expecting to be responsible for
a few days only, and, as you know, when a man dies it is not possible to touch his money until
certain legal formalities have been observed.  We should be only too delighted to act as your
bankers until matters are settled."

"Thank you very much, but I think I shall have enough.  I drew out what money was in the bank
before leaving home, and I would rather not get into debt until I know exactly how I am placed.
There may be very little left.  Father always spoke as if he were poor."

"He told you nothing about his affairs, then?  You know nothing about them?"

Mrs Nisbet looked at her curiously as she spoke, and Sylvia's heart gave a throb of fear. 
She knew something; there was evidently some secret with which she herself was unacquainted,
and in her present depressed condition of mind and body it was only natural that she should
leap to the conclusion that the news must be bad, and, ostrich-like, tried to hide her head
in the sand.

"He told me there had been some changes lately, which I should not understand.  His lawyers
will write to me some time, I suppose, but I don't want to think about money yet.  I have sufficient
for the next few months, for I shall go nowhere, and need no more clothes."

"Yes, yes, dear!  It's all right.  You will get along nicely, I'm sure," said the other soothingly,
and Sylvia felt another thrill of foreboding.

"Get along nicely!"  Did that mean that she would have to earn her own living?  She dared not
inquire further, shrinking from the possibility of another blow, but it was impossible to keep
from wondering what she should do if indeed there was no provision for her support.

Pixie's adventures in search of employment had proved how difficult it was for an inexperienced
girl to escape becoming the prey of fraudulent advertisements, and it was humiliating to reflect
on her own incapacity. What could she do that a thousand other girls could not accomplish equally
well?  She could play fairly well, sing fairly well, paint fairly well, trim a hat so that
it did not look obviously home-made, make a trifle or creams, though she was densely ignorant
about boiling a potato.  She possessed, in fact, a smattering of many things, but had not really
mastered one which, if needs be, would be a staff through life.

A hundred poor girls find themselves in this position every year, yet their short-sighted sisters
continue to fritter away their time, oblivious of the fact that to them also may come the rainy
day when they must face the world alone.  Learn to do one thing well, compare your productions,
whatever they may be, not with those of other amateurs, but with perfected professional specimens,
and do not be content until your own reach the same standard.  This is a golden rule, which
every girl ought to take to heart.

During the ten days which elapsed before Sylvia's return to London, she was haunted by the
fear of monetary troubles which would make her either dependent on her own efforts, or a burden
upon her aunt's narrow income, but neither Mrs Nisbet nor her husband referred again to the
subject, and some time must still elapse before she could hear from her father's lawyer in Colombo.

The week in Paris passed away quietly, but more pleasantly than she could have believed possible
under the circumstances; for nothing could have been kinder or more considerate than the way
in which she was treated by her father's friends, while the brilliant sunshine acted as a tonic
to the spirits.  Every day they went long drives in the Bois, or took the train to Versailles,
and spent long quiet hours in the woods, and Sylvia even found herself able to enjoy a visit
to one of the huge Magasins, where Mrs Nisbet invested in quite a collection of presents to
send home to English friends.  Sylvia was tempted to buy some on her own account, and it was
a new and depressing experience to feel that she must not spend an unnecessary penny.  Her
little hoard was diminishing rapidly, and she was growing more and more anxious to be safest
home, and free from at least immediate anxiety.

There was no lady courier to accompany her on this journey, for the days of independence had
begun, and she preferred to be alone to wrestle with her forebodings, and try to bring herself
into a fitting frame of mind for that trying return to the old scenes.

The parting from the Nisbets was like saying good-bye once more to the dear dad, and she felt
hopelessly adrift without their wise and tender counsels, and the feeling of loneliness grew
ever deeper and deeper as she approached the English shores.

The great shock through which she had passed had loosened all the ties in life, and made the
friends of a few weeks ago seem but the merest of acquaintances.  Bridgie had written the sweetest
of sympathetic letters, but sorry though she might be, the force of circumstances kept the
two girls so far apart, that what had been the saddest time in her friend's life had seen the
climax of her own gaiety.  She had been dancing, and singing, and pleasure making while Sylvia
shed the bitter tears of bereavement, and in a few weeks more she would be spirited off in
Esmeralda's train to another scene of gaiety.  The O'Shaughnessys were by nature so light of
heart that they might not care to welcome among them a black-robed figure of grief!

Sylvia felt as though the whole wide world yawned between her and the old interests, and did
not yet realise that this feeling of aloofness from the world and its interests is one of the
invariable accompaniments of grief.  She was young and not given to serious reflection, and
she knew only that she was tired and miserable, that the white cliffs about which she had been
accustomed to speak with patriotic fervour, looked bleak and cheerless in the light of a wet
and chilly evening.

June though it was, she was glad to wrap herself in her cloak, and pull her umbrella over her
head as she passed down the gangway on to the stage.  In Paris it had been a glorious summer
day, and the change to wet and gloom seemed typical of the home-coming before her.  The cloaked
and mackintoshed figures on the stage seemed all black, all the same. She would not look at
them lest their presence should make her realise more keenly her own loneliness; but someone
came up beside her as she struggled through the crowd, and forcibly lifted the bag from her
hand. She turned in alarm and saw a man's tall figure, lifted her eyes, and felt her troubles
and anxieties drop from her like a cloak.

It was Jack O'Shaughnessy himself!

CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE.

A COMFORTER.

Think of it!  Think of it!  The grey, inhospitable skies, the rain-swept stage, the feeling
of hopeless loneliness, as one traveller after another was greeted with loving exclamations,
and borne away by friendly watchers; and then suddenly to feel your hand grasped, and laid
tenderly on a protecting arm, and to see, looking into your own, the face of all others which
you would have wished for, had the choice been given!  To feel no longer a helpless unit, belonging
to no one, and having no corner of the earth to call your own, but to know that someone had
watched for your arrival, and to read how you had been missed, in the flash of eloquent eyes.

"Oh, Jack!" cried Sylvia involuntarily; "oh, Jack!" and clung to his arm with a sob of pure
joy and thanksgiving.  "Oh, I'm so glad!  I was so lonely.  How did you--whatever made you come?"

"A great many reasons, but principally because I couldn't stay away!" replied Jack, not smiling
as was his wont, but looking down upon her with an intent scrutiny, which aroused Sylvia's
curiosity.  She did not realise how changed she was by the experience of the last few weeks,
or what a pathetic little face it was which looked up at him between the dead black of hat
and cape.

The brown eyes looked bigger than ever, the delicate aquiline of the features showed all the
more distinctly for their sharpened pallor, and Jack looked down at her through the mist, and
thanked God for the health and strength which made him a fitting protector for her weakness.
The sound of that involuntary "Oh, Jack!" rang sweetly in his ears, and gave a greater confidence
to his manner, as he steered her through the crowd.

"Miss Munns told us when you were expected, and we talked of meeting you at the station, but
I decided that I had better stay away; then I wrote a letter to welcome you, and tore it up;
then for no purpose at all I began looking at Bradshaw, and it seemed there was a train which
I could catch.  And it rained!  It's dismal arriving in the rain.  Next thing I knew I was
in the station, and the train started when I was sitting inside, and--here I am!"

Sylvia laughed softly, it was such an age since she had laughed, and it was such a happy, contented
little sound that she was quite startled thereat.  The custom-house officials were going through
the farce of examining the luggage, and while the rest of the passengers groaned and lamented
at the delay, Jack and his companion stood together in the background, blissfully unconscious
of time and damp.

"Are you glad to see me, Sylvia?" he asked, for the joy of hearing her say in words what voice
and eyes had already proclaimed; and she waved her hand round the bleak landscape, and said
tersely--

"Look!  It felt like that; black and empty, and heart-breaking, and all the others seemed to
have friends--everyone but me.  I think I was never so glad before.  I shall bless you for
coming all my life!"

Jack laughed softly, and pressed her hand against his arm.  "Poor little girl!  I knew just
how you would be feeling; that's why I came. Wouldn't you have come to meet me, if you had
been the man and I the girl?"

"Yes, to the ends of the earth!"  Sylvia replied, but not with her lips, for there are some
things which a self-respecting girl may not say, however much she may feel them.  Instead she
murmured a few non- committal phrases, and gave the conversation a less personal tone, by inquiring
after the various friends at home--Miss Munns, Bridgie, Pixie and the boys, and Jack answered
in his usual breezy fashion, relating little incidents which made Sylvia smile with the old
happy sense of friendship, repeating loving speeches, which brought the grateful tears to her
eyes.  The world was not empty after all, while she possessed such faithful, loving friends.

When the luggage had passed the inspection of the custom-house and received the magic mark
in chalk, Jack led the way down the platform, before which the train was already drawn up,
and passed by one carriage after another, until at last an empty compartment was discovered,
of which he immediately took possession.

"Now we can talk!" he said, and sat himself down opposite Sylvia, looking at her with compassionate
eyes.

"I have gone through it myself," he said.  "Tell me all you can."

And as the train steamed onward, Sylvia told the story of the past weeks, told it quietly,
and without breakdown, though the dark eyes grew moist, and tears trembled on the lashes which
looked so long and black against the white cheeks.  It was a comfort to tell it all to one
who understood, and was full of sympathy and kindness, and strange though it might seem, separation,
instead of widening the distance between Jack and herself, had only drawn them more closely
together.

The old formalities of intercourse had dropped like a cloak at the first moment of meeting;
they were no longer Miss and Mr, but "Jack" and "Sylvia"; no longer acquaintances, but dear
and intimate friends.

"Miss Munns has been terribly distressed," Jack said, when at last the sad recital came to
an end.  "She loved your father more than anyone in the world, and you come next as his child.
Poor old lady! it was quite pathetic to see her efforts to make your home-coming as cheerful
as possible.  Bridgie says she has put up clean curtains all over the house, and discussed
the menu for supper for the last week.  It's her way of showing sympathy, the creature! and
you understand better than myself all that it means.  Different people have different ways,
haven't they, Sylvia?  I came to Dover!"

"Yes!" assented Sylvia, with a flickering smile.  "You came to Dover, and Aunt Margaret put
up clean curtains, and ordered a roast fowl for supper--I know it will be a roast fowl!--and
if you had not warned me in time, I should probably have said I could not eat anything, and
gone to bed supperless, without even noticing the curtains.  I am afraid I have been horrid
to the poor old soul in that sort of way many times in the last two years.  It is good of her
to take such trouble, because, honestly speaking, she won't be any more pleased to have me
back as a permanency than I am to come.  We have mutually comforted ourselves with the reflection
that it was `only for a time,' but now it is different. I want to be good--I have made, oh!
such a crowd of good resolutions, but I don't know how long they will last!"

Jack looked down at his boots, and drew his brows together thoughtfully.

"You--er--it's too early, I suppose, to have made any plans for the future.  You hardly know
what you will do?"

"No: my natural home is, of course, with Aunt Margaret as father's sister, but there are other
considerations."  Sylvia hesitated a moment, then added impetuously--it seemed so natural to
confide in Jack!--"About money, I mean.  I don't know what I have, or if I have anything at
all. Father always said he was poor, though he seemed to have enough for what he wanted, and
to give me all I asked.  Perhaps he made enough to keep us, but had nothing to leave behind.
Mrs Nisbet just referred to the subject one evening, and I could see from her manner that there
was something I did not know, so I turned the conversation at once.  I had had so much trouble
that I felt as if I simply could not bear any more bad news just then, and would rather remain
in ignorance as long as possible.  It was weak, perhaps, but--can't you understand the feeling?"

"Me name's O'Shaughnessy!" said Jack simply.  "We never face a disagreeable fact until it comes
so close that we hit ourselves against it.  I'm sorry; but don't worry more than you can help.
I've been short of money all my life, but I don't know anyone who has had a better time. So
long as you have youth and health, what does it matter whether you are rich or poor?  It's
all in the way you look at things.  For useful purposes, most people can make their money go
farther than mine, but for sheer fun and enjoyment I'll back my half-crown against another
fellow's sovereign!"

"Ah, but you're Irish!  You have the happy temperament which can throw off troubles and forget
all about them for the time being.  They sit right down upon my shoulders--little black imps
of care, and anxiety, and quaking fears, and press so heavily that I can remember nothing else.
Perhaps I could be philosophical too, if I were one of a big, happy family--but when one is
all alone--"

"All alone--when I'm here!  How can you be all alone, when there are two of ye!" cried Jack
impulsively.

He had resolved, not once, but a hundred times over, that he would speak no words but those
of friendship; that no temptation, however strong, should make him break his vow of silence;
but some impulses seem independent of thought.  He did not know what he was going to do, he
was conscious of no mental prompting, but one moment he was quietly sitting in his corner opposite
Sylvia, and the next he was seated beside her, with both arms wrapped tightly round her trembling
figure, and she was shedding tears of mingled sorrow and happiness upon his shoulder.

"I've been in love with you ever since the first evening you came to our house.  Before that!
Ever since I saw you sitting up at your window in your little red jacket.  You knew it, didn't
you?  You found that out for yourself?"

"No--Yes!  Sometimes.  Only I thought--I was afraid it couldn't be true, and there was--Mollie!"
faltered Sylvia incoherently, hardly knowing what she was saying, conscious of nothing but
an overwhelming sense of content and well-being, as the strong arm supported her tired back,
and the big, tender finger wiped away her tears.

Jack laughed at the suggestion, but did not indulge in the depreciatory remarks concerning
Miss Burrell which many men would have used under the circumstances.

"Good old Mollie!" he said.  "She's a broth of a girl, but I would as soon think of marrying
Bridgie herself.  She was my confidante, bless her, and cheered me up when I was down on my
luck.  You might have noticed how interested she was in you that night at Esmeralda's crush!"

At that Sylvia opened her eyes wide, with a sudden unpleasant recollection.

"What will Esmeralda think?  Oh, Jack, what will she say?"

"Plenty, my dear!  You may be sure of that," replied Jack, laughing; then he, too, gave a little
start of surprise, and, straightening himself, held Sylvia from him at the length of his strong
young arms. "I say--what's this?  You little witch, what have you done to me?  I had made a
solemn vow not to speak a word of love-making, and it seems to me I have broken it pretty successfully.
Have I been making love to you, Sylvia--have I?"

It was a very charming little face that laughed back at him, pale no longer, but flushed to
a delicate pink, the dark eyes a-sparkle with happiness, and a tinge of the old mischievous spirit.

"Yes, you have!  Do you want to draw back?"

Jack's answer was wordless but convincing, but the next moment he sobered, and said in that
charming way of his, which was at once so manly and so boyish, "But I didn't want to bind you,
I spoke only for myself.  I am your property, darling, and your slave to command, but I can't
ask you to marry me yet awhile, for I've the children on my hands, and until they are settled
I can't think of myself.  I am the head of the house, and must do what I can for them, poor
creatures.

"Pat will be off to the Agricultural College next term, and then back to Ireland to do agent's
work; Miles is doing well in the city, but can't keep himself for several years to come; and
then there are the girls.  I had no right to speak as I did; it wasn't fair to you.  I won't
bind you down to a long, uncertain engagement.  You must feel yourself free, perfectly free."

"I don't want to be free!  I like to be bound--to you, Jack!"  Sylvia said firmly.  "I'm so
thankful that you did speak, for it makes just all the difference in my life.  I am young,
and can wait quite happily and contentedly, so long as I know that you care, and can look forward--"

Sylvia stopped short, awed at the prospect of happiness which had suddenly opened before her,
and Jack was silent too, holding her hand in a close pressure.  His face was very tender, but
troubled through all its tenderness, and when he spoke again, it was in very anxious accents.

"But are you contented to leave it a secret, darling, a secret between you and me?  You see,
if Bridgie knew we were waiting, she'd know no peace, feeling that she was in our way, and
the young ones would get the same fancy, and be wanting to turn out before they were ready.
They have no one but me, and I couldn't have them feeling upset in their own home.  That was
why I determined to keep silent, and it's bad of me to have broken my vow, but it's your own
fault, darling!  I couldn't be with you again, and keep quiet.  Do you care for me enough to
wait perhaps for years before we can even be publicly engaged?"

Sylvia smiled at him bravely, but her heart sank a little, poor girl, as it was only natural
it should do.  A girl is by nature much quicker than a man projecting herself into the future,
and in realising all that is involved.

Jack was conscious only of a general regret that he could not claim his bride before the world,
but Sylvia saw in a flash the impossibility of frequent meetings, the minute chance of tete-a-tetes,
the quicksands in the shape of misunderstandings, which must needs attend so unnatural a position.
On the other hand, she honoured Jack the more for his loyalty to his home duties, and agreed
with the wisdom of his decision.

"Yes, Jack, I do.  I'd like to wait.  I love Bridgie with all my heart, and could not bear
her to suffer through me.  It shall be exactly as you think best for them in every way."

Jack bent and kissed her, even more tenderly than before.

"My little helpmeet!" he said, and Sylvia found her best reward in the sound of that word,
and the knowledge that she was strengthening him in the right path.  Surely it was the best
guarantee for the happiness of their new relationship, that it was inaugurated in a spirit
of self- sacrifice and care for others.

CHAPTER TWENTY SIX.

REMINISCENCES.

Bridgie was not waiting at the station.  "She heard me saying that I might be here myself,
and maybe remembered that two are company," said Jack, with a laugh.

But when Rutland Road was reached someone stood waiting to open the door of the cab and welcome
the wanderer in the sweetest tones of a sweet contralto voice.  She said only a few words,
but with true Irish tact chose just the ones which were most comforting under the circumstances.

"Welcome back, dear.  I've missed you badly.  So have we all."  Then she looked at Jack, and
smiled as if his presence were the most natural thing in the world.  "You have brought her
home safely.  That's right," she said.  It was one of Bridgie's most lovable qualities that
she never asked awkward questions, nor showed undue curiosity about the affairs of others.

Brother and sister said good-bye at the door, leaving aunt and niece alone, and, as the door
closed behind them, Sylvia felt a spasm of loneliness and regret.  It was hard to part from
Jack with that formal shake of the hand, to feel that days might elapse before they met again,
and, as she looked round the ugly little dining-room, she felt like a prisoned bird which longs
to break loose the bars and fly to its mate.

It seemed impossible to settle down to the old monotonous life, and yet--and yet--how much,
much worse it might have been!  How thankful she ought to be!  If one hope had been taken away,
another had been granted in its stead.  The path ahead was still bright with promise, and a
sudden pity seized her for the woman whose youth was gone, and who had lost the last tie to
the past.  She returned her aunt's kisses with unusual affection, and roused herself to notice
and show appreciation of the efforts which had been made on her behalf.

The table was laid with the best china, the red satin tea-cosy had been brought from its hiding-place
upstairs and divested of its muslin bag and holland wrappings; the centre mat presented by
Cousin Mary Ferguson two Christmases ago was displayed for the first time; the serviettes were
folded into rakish imitations of cocked hats.

It was half touching, half gruesome, to find the occasion turned into a fete, but Sylvia was
determined to be amiable, and said gratefully--

"How kind of you to have supper ready for me, Aunt Margaret!  I could not eat anything on the
boat, but now I believe I am hungry.  It all looks very good.  The chickens one gets in France
are not the least like the ones at home."

"They don't know how to feed them, my dear.  I am glad you have an appetite.  I always find
that when I am in trouble nothing tempts me so much as a cup of tea and a slice off the breast.
Just take off your hat, and sit down as you are.  Everything is ready."

Miss Munns was evidently gratified to receive an acknowledgment of her efforts, and insisted
upon waiting upon her niece and loading her plate with one good thing after another; but after
the meal was over there followed a painful half-hour, when Sylvia had to submit to a searching
cross-questioning on the events of the past weeks.

Unlike Bridgie, Miss Munns insisted upon detail--had a ghoulish curiosity to know in exactly
what words Mrs Nisbet had broken the sad news, in exactly what words Sylvia had replied, in
exactly what manner the first black days had been spent.  Her spectacles were dimmed with tears
as she listened to what the girl had to tell, and her thin lips quivered with genuine grief;
but she was still acutely interested to hear of the number of carriages at the funeral, of
the meals in the hotel, and the purchase of Sylvia's mourning garments.

"You must show them to me to-morrow.  I expect they are very smart-- coming from France.  I
always wear black, so there was not much to be done.  I had the black satin taken off my cashmere
dress, and folds of crape put in its place, and some dull trimming, instead of jet, on my cape.
I haven't decided about my bonnet.  You must give me your advice. Of course, I wish to do everything
that is proper, but it's been an expensive year."

"Yes," assented Sylvia absently.  She rose from her seat and, walking across the room, leant
her elbow on the mantelpiece.  There was something she wanted to say, and it was easier to
say it with averted face.  "Aunt Margaret, I want to ask you a question.  Please tell me the
truth.  Shall I have any money?  Was father able to provide for me?  I know you are not well
off, and I could not bear to be a burden to you. If I have no money of my own, I must try to
earn some."

"I should be telling you the truth, my dear, if I said that I knew less about it than you do
yourself.  Your father was very close about business matters--very close indeed.  He was supposed
to have a good business a few years ago, and was always very handsome in his ways, but he has
grumbled a good deal of late, and I don't know how things will be now he is gone.  He had a
lawsuit with an old partner in Ceylon, which hung on a long time.  I don't know if it is settled
yet; and, if not, we shall have to let it drop.  You can always have a home with me; but there
will be nothing to spare for lawyers' expenses.  Give me a bird in the hand, as I said to your
father the last time he was home.

"If the worst comes to the worst, you can give some music lessons in the neighbourhood.  Mrs
Burton was telling me on Monday that her little boy has quite a taste--picks out all the barrel-organ
tunes on the piano with one finger.  You might get him as a beginning."

"Yes," assented Sylvia faintly; and to herself she cried, "Oh, Jack dear--how good of you to
love me!  How good of you to give me something to live for!  How dreadful, dreadful, dreadful
I should be feeling now if you had not met me, and made the whole world different!"

Miss Munns was watching her anxiously, fearing a burst of tears, and was greatly relieved when
she turned round and showed a composed and even smiling face.  "I'll find some work if it is
necessary, auntie; and I'll try to help you too.  You have been very good to me, and I'm afraid
I have been rather horrid sometimes.  I thought of it when I was away, and determined to make
a fresh start if you would forgive me this time.  We are the only two left, and we ought to
love each other."

"I am sure I am very much attached to you, my dear.  I was saying so to Miss O'Shaughnessy
only to-day.  I don't deny that your manner is rather sharp at times, but there's nothing like
trouble for taming the spirits. I shouldn't wonder if we got along much more happily after
this.  Miss Bridgie brought a little parcel for you--I mustn't forget that.  It is on that
little table.  She told me to give it to you at once."

"What can it be, I wonder?--something I left over there by mistake, I suppose," Sylvia said
listlessly, as she unfolded the paper; but her expression altered the next moment as she beheld
a flat leather case, inside which reposed a miniature painting of the same face which used
to smile upon her from her own chimney-piece.

Surprise held her speechless, while a quick rush of tears testified more eloquently than words
to the faithfulness of the portrait.  The painting was exquisitely fine and soft, the setting
the perfection of good taste in its handsome severity.  It seemed at the moment just the greatest
treasure which the world could offer.  Who could have sent it?

Sylvia reluctantly handed the case for Miss Munns's curious scrutiny, the while she opened
the note which had fallen from the paper. Bridgie's handwriting confronted her; but she had
hardly time to marvel how so costly a gift could come from such an impecunious donor, before
surprise number two confronted her in the opening words.

"Esmeralda told me to give you this miniature from myself, but I want you to know that it is
entirely her idea and present from the beginning. As soon as she heard your sad news, she asked
me to borrow the best photograph of your father, to be copied by the same artist who painted
the Major for her.  She has been to see how he was getting on almost every day, till the poor
man was thankful to finish it, just to be rid of her, and here it is to welcome you, dear,
and, we hope, to be a comfort to you, all your life."

"Esmeralda!" echoed Sylvia blankly.  It seemed for a moment as if Bridgie must be romancing,
for the staid English mind refused to believe that one who had at one time appeared actively
antagonistic, and at the best had shown nothing warmer than a lofty tolerance, should suddenly
become the most thoughtful and generous of friends.  Yet there it was, specified in black and
white.  Esmeralda had originated the kindly plan; she had engaged no second-rate artist, but
one to whom her own work had been entrusted, and had given freely of what was even more value
to her than money, her time, in order that the gift should arrive at the right moment.

Sylvia flushed with a gratification which was twofold in its nature, for here at last seemed
an opening of drawing near in heart to that beautiful, baffling personality, who was Jack's
sister, and might some day--oh, wonderful thought!--be her own also.  It would be a triumph,
indeed, if in these days of waiting she could overcome the last lingering prejudice, and feel
that there would be no dissentient note when at last the great secret was revealed.

Aunt and niece hung together over the case with its precious contents, the one exhausting herself
in expressions of gratitude and appreciation, the other equally delighted, but quite unable
to resist looking the gift horse in the mouth, and speculating in awed tones concerning the
enormous cost of ivory miniatures.  That jarred, but on the whole the evening passed more pleasantly
than Sylvia could have believed possible, the unexpected excitement breaking the thread of
that painful cross- examination, and carrying the old lady's thoughts back to the far-off days
when she and her brother had been sworn friends and playmates.

"Tell me what you used to do, auntie!  It must be so nice to have someone to play with.  Do
tell me some of your escapades!" she pleaded wistfully, and Miss Munns shook her head, and
assumed a great air of disapproval, though it was easy to see that she cherished a secret pride
in the remembrance of her own audacities.

"I am afraid we were very naughty, thankless children.  One day, I remember, Teddy, as we used
to call him, had been very rightly punished for disobedience, and he confided in me that he
intended to run away, and go to sea, as a cabin-boy.  We always did everything together in
those days, so of course nothing must suit me but I must go too.  We got up early the next
morning, and ran out into the garden, where we were allowed to play before breakfast, and then
slipped out of the side door, to walk to Portsmouth.

"Portsmouth was eighteen miles away, and I was only six, and before we had walked two miles,
I was crying with fatigue and hunger.  Teddy had brought some bread-and-butter, so we sat under
a hedge to eat it, and he told me we must be very nearly there.  Just then up came a tramp,
and stopped to ask why we were crying, and what we were doing out there in the road at that
hour in the morning.  `We are going to Portsmouth to be cabin-boys,' we told him, and I can
remember to this day how he laughed. `If you are going to be cabin-boys, you won't want those
clothes,' he said.  `You had better take them off, and give them to me, to change for proper
sailor things.'

"We thought that a splendid idea, so he took Teddy's suit, and my frock and hat, and left us
shivering under the hedge waiting his return.  Of course he never came, and an hour or two
later, my father came driving along to look for us, and we were taken home, and punished as
we deserved.  That is to say, Teddy was whipped, and I was only put to bed, for he insisted
that the idea was his, and that he alone was to blame."

"Nice little Teddy!" murmured Sylvia fondly, looking down at the pictured face, which, despite
grey hair and wrinkles, had still the gallant air of the little boy who shielded his sister
from blame.

Having once started, Miss Munns told one story after another of her childhood's days; of the
lessons which brother and sister used to learn together--a whole page of Mangnall's Questions
at a time, and of the dire and terrible conspiracy, by which they learnt alternate answers,
easily persuading the docile governess to take the right "turns."  Thus Teddy, when asked "What
is starch?" could reply with prompt accuracy, while remaining in dense ignorance of the date
when printing was introduced into England, concerning which his small sister was so well informed.

Sylvia was told of the books which were read and re-read, until the pages came loose from their
bindings; of the thrilling adventures of one Masterman Ready, whose stockade, being besieged
by savages, it became an immediate necessity to guard the gate at the head of the nursery stairs,
and to hurl a succession of broken toys at the innocent nurse, as she forced an entry; of a
misguided and stubborn "Rosamond" who expended her savings on a large purple vase from a chemist's
window, and found to her chagrin that when the water was poured away, it was only a plain glass
bottle; and of a certain "Leila," who sojourned on a desert island in the utmost comfort and
luxury, being possessed of a clever father who found all that he needed on the trees in the forest.

An hour later, when Sylvia went up to her room, it was impossible to resist drawing aside the
blind to look across the road, and in an instant, another blind was pulled back, and a tall
dark figure stood clearly outlined against the lighted background.

Sylvia understood that Jack had been watching for her advent, and felt comforted by his presence,
and all that was meant by that waving hand. She wondered whether she had better write to Esmeralda,
or try to see her in person, but the question was decided by Pixie, who came over early the
next morning to announce Mrs Hilliard's arrival in the afternoon.

"She wants to see you, and say she's sorry," she explained, and when Sylvia exhausted herself
in expressions of gratitude and delight, "Oh, Esmeralda would give you her skin if it would
fit ye!" she said coolly. "She's the kindest of us all when she isn't cross.  Give her her
way, and you may have all the rest.  I've known her raise the roof on us, and appealing to
every relation we owned, to get what she wanted, and then wrap it up in brown paper that very
day, and post it back where it came. I'm glad ye like it so much.  Now if I'd been clever,
and bought some more paints when those people wanted me, maybe I could have done it for you
meself."  Her face grew suddenly grave and wistful.

"When I got my telegram at school, the girls all brought me home presents from the walk--pencil-boxes,
and jujubes, and a little toy rabbit that wagged its head.  I don't know how it was, but they
soothed my feelings!  I should have liked to buy you something, Sylvia, but I don't get my
wages till the end of the month, and then they are spent. You'll excuse me, won't you, me dear,
for you know I am sorry!"

"My darling girl, I don't want presents!  Come to see me as often as you can, and go on being
fond of me--that's all I want," cried Sylvia warmly, and Pixie brightened once more.

"There's no credit in that.  It isn't as if you were nasty.  I'll not be able to call on ye
as often as I'd like, for I'm off to the seaside. Mrs Wallace has taken a house on the Thames,
and her cousin is coming home from the wars and a friend with him, and lots of ladies and gentlemen
all staying in the house to be entertained, so they want me to go too.  Of course!"

"Of course," repeated Sylvia gravely.  There was something so charming in Pixie's simple assumption
that everyone desired her company, that she would not for the world have tried to destroy it.
"I hope you will enjoy yourself very much, dear, and come back with some colour in your cheeks,
though I am afraid that particular part of the `seaside' is not very bracing.  Tell Mrs Hilliard
with my love that I shall be charmed to see her this afternoon!"

CHAPTER TWENTY SEVEN.

ESMERALDA'S VISIT.

Miss Munns was greatly excited to hear of the expected visit, and busied herself taking the
holland covers off the drawing-room chairs, and displaying the best antimacassars in the most
advantageous position.

Sylvia longed to introduce a little disorder into the painful severity of the room, but it
would have distressed her aunt if she had moved a chair out of the straight, or confiscated
one of the books which were ranged at equal distances round the rosewood table, and, as it
was one of her resolves not to interfere with domestic arrangements, she shrugged her shoulders
resignedly, and hoped that Esmeralda might be as unnoticing of her surroundings as were her
brothers and sisters.

At four o'clock a carriage drove up to the door, and Esmeralda alighted, clad from head to
foot in black, as Sylvia noticed at the first quick glance.  She was waiting in the little
drawing-room, and scarcely was the door opened when the tall figure was at her side, and her
hands were crushed with affectionate fervour.  She looked up, and was startled by the beauty
of the face above her, startled as even Esmeralda's brothers and sisters were at times, when
as now the grey eyes were misty with tears, and the lips all sweet and tremulous.

"If I'd known--if I'd had the slightest idea he was ill, I would rather have killed myself
than have behaved as I did!  Oh, don't pretend you didn't notice!  I was hateful to you when
you were ill, too, poor creature, and my sister's guest.  I told Geoff all about it.  I hate
telling him when I do wrong, so I did it just as a penance, and he was so vexed with me.  Do
you know why I spoke as I did?  Did you guess the reason?"

Sylvia shrank into herself with an uneasy foreboding, for Esmeralda was an impetuous creature,
who might be expected to be as undisguised in her penitence as in offence.

"Oh, please don't say anything more about it!" she cried hurriedly.  "It was very trying for
you finding me there when you came over for a visit. I have forgotten all about it, if there
is anything to forget; and now there's this lovely miniature.  How can I thank you?"

"Oh, that is nothing--that's nothing!" cried Esmeralda, waving aside the subject, and insisting
upon a full confession of her fault.  "I was jealous of you--that is what it was--jealous because
they all seemed so fond of you, and I wanted their attention for myself.  It was horribly mean,
because I have Geoff and the boy, and it is only natural that they should want their own interests.

"I daresay Pixie has told you how father spoiled me all my life, and Bridgie gave way to me
until it seemed natural to think first of myself. But I don't now.  I think of Geoffrey and
the boy, and I'm trying to be better for their sake.  Geoff says he got me only just in time.
He is rather stern with me sometimes, do you know.  He doesn't say much-- perhaps I don't give
him the chance--but his face sets, and his eyes are so large and grave.  I can't bear it when
he looks at me like that, because, as a rule, you know,"--she gave a soft, happy little laugh--"he
loves me so frightfully much, and we are so happy together.  I ought to want every girl to
be as happy as I am, and I do--really I do.

"In a month or two, when we are home at Knock, will you come and stay with me, Sylvia, and
learn to be fond of me too?  I'm rather lonely over there now that all the others have left,
and I have not many girl- friends.  The one I cared for most will be engaged soon, I think,
and the man lives abroad, so she may be leaving the neighbourhood.  It is not settled yet,
but I think Mrs Burrell will give in."

She stared ostentatiously through the window, and Sylvia blushed, and had some ado not to smile
at this very transparent intimation of hostility withdrawn.

"Thank you so much!  I'd love to come," she said simply; and then the two girls talked quietly
together for a few minutes before Miss Munns came in and dispensed tea and reminiscences of
all the grand people whom she had ever met, with a view of impressing her visitor, who, of
course, was not impressed at all, but secretly amused, as listeners invariably are under such
circumstances.

Esmeralda was just rising to leave when a loud rat-tat at the knocker made Sylvia's heart leap
in expectation; and the next moment Jack came into the room in his most easy and assured manner.

"I thought I would come across for my sister, and inquire how Miss Trevor was after her journey,"
he announced; and once more Sylvia smiled to herself as she noted how Esmeralda immediately
plunged into animated conversation with Miss Munns, to keep her attention engrossed at the
opposite end of the room.

Jack O'Shaughnessy stood by the window, and looked down upon his little love with tender, dissatisfied
eyes.

"I say," he said softly, "I can't stand this sort of thing!  Two minutes' talk, with two other
people in the room.  How much longer do you suppose I can stand this?"

"You have had only one day yet.  It's too soon to complain.  You may have seven years!" retorted
Sylvia saucily; but at the bottom of her heart she was glad that he found it difficult to be
patient.

CHAPTER TWENTY EIGHT.

BY THE RIVER.

Pixie went off in great spirits to join the Wallaces at the riverside cottage which they had
rented for the remainder of the summer.  The heat in town was already growing oppressive, and
it was delightful to think of being in the country again and running free over the dear green
fields.  Esmeralda had presented her with quite a trousseau of summer dresses, with a selection
of hair-ribbons to match, at least an inch wider than any which she had previously possessed,
and she piled up her pompadour higher than ever, and pulled out the bows to their farthest
extent in her anxiety to do justice to the occasion, and the importance of her own position
as the instructor of youth.

A pony-cart was at the station to meet her, with Viva and Inda clinging together on the front
seat, ready to pour breathless confidences into her ear the moment she appeared.  They spoke
with a curious mingling of tongues, but had apparently no difficulty in understanding her when
she replied in rapid, colloquial French, so that it was evident that the hours of play had
not been wasted, but had the effect of successful study.

"Mamzelle!  Mamzelle Paddy, we have boats in our house!" cried Viva eagerly.  "Three boats
with cushions, and a punt, and one with a funnel in the miggle.  And Cousin Jim takes us out
with the 'nother gentleman, and we splash with our hands, and the lady was cross because of
her sash, and she dried it in the sun.  And there's tea in the garden, and a big steamer that
makes waves, and muzzer says if we are very good you will play with us at being gipsies under
the wheel-barrow."

"An' we got in a box, and the water went up, an' up, an' up, an' then it went down, an' down,
an' down, an' then we came home," contributed fat little Inda in her deep, gurgling voice,
and Pixie turned from one to the other and cried, "Vraiment!"  "Sans doute!"  "Bravo!" and
beamed in delighted expectation.

The house-party were assembled on the lawn drinking tea when the pony- carriage turned in at
the gate, and Pixie looked round with sparkling eyes, quite dazzled by the beauty of the scene.
The narrow road, running at the back of the houses, had been dull and uninteresting, but before
many yards of the drive had been traversed, there came a view over the wide sunlit river, and
beyond it green meadows stretching away as far as the eye could reach.

The house was not a cottage after all, but quite a large, imposing- looking house, and the
lawn sloping to the river bank was smooth and soft as velvet.  Baskets of flowers hung from
the verandah; picturesque stumps of trees were hollowed out to receive pots of geraniums; a
red and white awning shaded the tea-table; and the wicker chairs were plentifully supplied
with scarlet cushions.  It was Pixie's first peep at the summer glories of the river, and she
felt as if she had stepped into fairyland itself.

The little girls seized her hands and dragged her in triumph across the lawn, and Mrs Wallace
looked round, and said smilingly to her friends--

"Here's my French governess--the latest addition to the household.  What do you think of my
choice?"

"Governess!  That girl!  She looks a child herself.  Edith, what nonsense are you talking?"

"Sense, my dear, I assure you.  The wisest thing I ever did, as you will see before many hours
are past.  We shall have some peace now that she has arrived.  Bon jour, Mamzelle.  How I am
happy to see thee again! Thou are not fatigued--no?  Seat thyself in this chair, and I will
make known to thee my friends."

She spoke in French, and evidently wished her governess to appear as French on this occasion
at least; and Pixie rose to the occasion, sweeping elaborate bows from side to side, unconsciously
elevating her shoulders, and waving expressive hands.  She discoursed volubly about her long
and adventurous journey of three-quarters of an hour's duration, and Mrs Wallace's guests looked
on with smiling faces, putting an occasional laborious question as she appeared to be reaching
the end of her story.

There were several ladies, all young and pretty and beautifully dressed, and three strange
men, including Cousin Jim and his soldier friend from India.  Cousin Jim had bright, twinkling
eyes, and looked full of life and spirit; but his friend's brown face was lined and haggard,
and his smile was half-hearted, as if his thoughts were not in the present.

Pixie noticed, however, that it was to his side that little Inda crept for support, and that
his disengaged hand softly stroked the child's head from time to time, as if he found comfort
in her presence.  Such good friends did they appear that after the meal was finished she refused
to be separated from him, and implored his company in the gipsy tent in the paddock.  Mrs Wallace
protested, but the young fellow declared that he enjoyed being victimised, and walked off with
the schoolroom party with the utmost good humour.

"But I can't speak French, Viva," he explained--"not well enough to be able to converse with
Mademoiselle, at least!  You must explain to her that I am only a stupid Englishman, and ask
her to excuse me.  You can translate that for me, I suppose?"

"She's not French either; she's only pitending.  She's only English the same as me," protested
Viva sturdily; and Pixie nodded at him with complacent smiles.

"But I've lived abroad; so I speak it to them for their good.  You've been away too, haven't
you?  I hope you enjoyed yourself?"

He smiled, but it was rather a sad little smile, despite its amusement. "I went for work, you
know, not pleasure.  We accomplished what there was to do, which was satisfactory; but I can't
honestly say I enjoyed it."

"I hate work!" agreed Pixie sympathetically.  "We all do; it's in the family.  `Never do to-day
what you can put off till to-morrow,' my brother used to tell me, for you never know what may
happen, and you may get out of it altogether if you wait.  But if we are obliged to do it,
we pretend we like it, for it's so dull to be unhappy.  And if it was horrid abroad, it makes
it all the nicer to come back, doesn't it?"

"Sometimes," he said shortly.

They had reached the gipsy encampment by this time, and were peremptorily commanded to sit
down on a bench pending certain important preparations under the wheel-barrow; so he took possession
of one corner, and Pixie took the other and stared at him with unabashed scrutiny.  He was
unhappy, she decided, and that was enough to enlist her whole-hearted sympathy; but besides
being unhappy, he was very good to look upon, with his bronzed skin, well-cut features, and
soldierly bearing.  She admired him immensely; and the admiration was mutual, though of a different
nature.

She was a quaint-looking little soul, the young fellow decided--plain- looking, he had thought
on first sight, but there was something oddly attractive about the wide eyes and large curving
lips; you wanted to look at them once and yet again, and each time you looked the attraction
increased.  What was it?  Not beauty, not intellect, not wit--nothing, it appeared, but a crystalline
sincerity and sweetness of heart, which exercised an irresistible claim on the affections.
His face softened, and he bent towards her with a kindly questioning.

"How do you come to be governessing these children?  You are so young still--sixteen--seventeen,
is it?  You ought to be in the schoolroom yourself!"

"There was nothing else I could do, and I wanted to earn some money, because we're poor.  I'm
small, but I've known a lot of trouble," replied Pixie, with a complacent air which was distinctly
trying to her companion's composure.  He stroked his moustache to hide the twitching lips,
and said solemnly--

"I'm sorry--very sorry to hear that!  I hope, however, it is all in the past.  You look remarkably
cheerful now."

"That's because I'm helping; and we are such a nice family at home.  If you are with the people
you like best, that makes you happy, doesn't it, without thinking of anything else?"

"Yes," he said shortly, and rose from his seat to walk across to where the children were scrambling
on the grass.  They leapt on him, and hung on his arms; and he played with them for five or
ten minutes, then produced a packet of chocolate from a pocket, and giving it to Pixie to distribute,
made his escape to the house.

CHAPTER TWENTY NINE.

A CONFIDENCE.

During the next few days the "Capting," as Viva called him, was constantly deserting his companions
to join himself to the schoolroom party in their walks and games.

As Pixie had suspected, his heart was sore, and the innocent affection which the children lavished
upon him made their society more congenial than that of his own companions, who were enjoying
their stay in the country in merry, uproarious fashion.

Viva and Inda were interesting and original children, while "Mamzelle Paddy" was a house-party
in herself--a delicious combination of shrewdness and innocence.  He had little chance of private
conversation with her, for the children were exacting in their demands; but their intimacy
rapidly increased, as was only natural under the circumstances.

It was impossible to remain on formal terms with one who was united with yourself to withstand
an assault of wild savages, as portrayed by two little girls with branches of bracken waving
above their heads, and geranium petals stuck in ferocious patterns about their cheeks; impossible
not to feel an affection for the tallest member of the battalion which marched regularly every
morning to the corner of the paddock to be drilled by their commander, scarlet sashes crossed
sideways over holland dresses, and Panama hats fastened by immaculate black chin-straps.

In the afternoon, when the grown-up members of the household drove off in state to attend garden
parties at neighbouring mansions, the Captain found it infinitely more enjoyable to punt slowly
down the stream, dreaming his own dreams, or listening with a smile while the older child amused
her juniors by quaint and adventurous stories.

She was always happy, this little Mamzelle Paddy.  Another girl of her age might have felt
lonely and diffident in this large, bustling household, but she was sunshine personified--content
to work, content to play, content to go on an expedition, content to be left behind, having
no desires of her own, it would appear, excepting only this one--to love, and be loved by those
around.

"Some day, Mamzelle," the Captain said, "I will take you and the children a little jaunt on
our own account.  We will take a boat and go up the river to a dear little spot which I know
very well, and there we will have tea and pretend to be Robinson Crusoes on a desert island.
It is an island, you know; and we will take a basket of provisions with us, and boil our own
kettle, and spread the tablecloth under the trees. Robinson didn't have tablecloths, I believe;
but we will improve on the story, and go shopping in the village to see what we can buy."

"Wants to go now!"  Inda insisted; while Viva executed a war-dance of triumph, and Pixie murmured
deeply--

"I love picnics!  We had a beauty once when I was young.  'Twas some friends near by, and they
asked me and Miles; and ye could smell the cooking coming up the drive--all sorts of things
cooked for days before, and packed in hampers.  We went there by train--to the place we were
going to, I mean--but by bad luck the hampers went somewhere else, through leaving them on
the platform without seeing them put in.  Ye get very hungry when you are enjoying yourself,
and there was nothing to be bought in the village but bread and spring-onions and herrings
in barrels.  'Twas a lucky accident, all the same, for we had the picnic, and a party next
day to eat up the food."

"Well, we'll look after the hamper this time.  We should not find even the onions on our island,"
said the Captain, laughing.  "We will ask Mrs Wallace's permission when she comes home, and
begin preparations to-morrow morning if it is fine."

Mrs Wallace protested that the children were being spoiled by so much kindness, but was delighted
to give her consent, and the next morning was happily employed in packing the tea-basket, and
purchasing strawberries, cakes, and chocolates from the shops in the village.

Several of the visitors pleaded to be allowed to join the party, and tried to wheedle invitations
from the children during the luncheon-hour, to their own humiliation and defeat.

"You would like to have me with you, wouldn't you, darling?  You would like to sit next to
me in the boat?" pleaded one pretty young lady of the chubby baby; but Inda wriggled away,
and replied sturdily--

"Don't want you in the boat!  Don't want nobody only the Capting and Mamzelle.  You go anuzzer
picnic by yourself!"

"You must forgive us, Miss Rose, but this is strictly a limited expedition.  We children want
to be as mischievous as we like without the controlling influence of grown-up people.  No best
frocks, please, Mrs Wallace!  Just holland pinafores that we can soil as much as we like!"
pleaded the Captain, feeling more than rewarded for his firmness as he met the adoring glances
of three pairs of innocent eyes.

There was quite a little assembly by the boat-house to speed the expedition on its way, and
it is safe to say that no boat on the river that afternoon carried a happier, more excited
party.  The Captain rowed; Pixie sat in the stern and pulled the rudder-lines according to
instructions, with occasional lapses of memory when she mistook her right hand for her left,
and was surprised to find the boat going in an opposite direction from what had been intended;
the little girls sat on either side, as yet too mindful of their promises of good behaviour
even to splash the water.  They snored with excitement at the mystery of the first lock, and
wrapped their hands in their pinafores to keep them safely out of the way, since the Captain
said that it was impossible to be too careful in such places.

Along the banks were dotted beautiful houses set back in luxuriant gardens; round the bend
of the river stood a house-boat known by the fascinating name of The Yellow Butterfly.  The
paint was white, but everything else was a rich, glowing yellow--yellow plants and flowers
in baskets; yellow curtains to the windows; yellow cushions on the chairs; actually--if you
can believe it--a yellow parakeet in a golden cage on the top deck.

"I should like to live and die in that house-boat!" cried Viva rapturously.

Presently came the sound of music from afar and a thud, thud, thud, which foretold the advent
of a steamer.  Now there would be waves--real, true, up-and-down waves, and you could pitend
you were going to be drowned, and the boat go upside down.  What fun!  What fun!  The gurgles
of excitement, the clutchings of Mamzelle's skirts, the shrieks of exultation as the happy
moment drew near, were as charming to the beholder as to the children themselves.

In the sunny reaches of the river the boats carried Japanese umbrellas which made charming
touches of colour against the green.  Under the great trees more boats were moored in the shade,
while their occupants brought out the tea-baskets from beneath the seats.

Viva and Inda regarded all such proceedings as deliberate offences against their exclusive
rights, and angrily pointed out the fact that "other people" were having picnics too; but the
Captain soothed them by a promise that the island should be their private property, and that
he would fight to the death to keep off foreign invasions.  Already this land of promise was
looming in the distance, and presently they were rowing slowly round and round looking for
a convenient place of landing, tying the rope to the trunk of a willow whose branches dipped
in the stream, and stepping cautiously ashore.

The children were wild with excitement, but the Captain claimed for himself a quarter of an
hour's rest and smoke before proceeding to the difficult business of boiling the kettle; and
the two little girls scampered off to explore the island, promising faithfully to keep clear
of the banks.

"Mamzelle shall stay and talk to me!  It's my turn to be amused," he said; but for once Pixie
did not seem in a talkative mood, but leant silently against the stump of a tree, staring around
her with dreamy eyes.

The young fellow watched her curiously as he pulled his pipe out of his pocket and prepared
for the longed-for smoke.  "What are you thinking of, Mamzelle?" he asked; and Pixie looked
round with a little start of remembrance.

"I don't know.  Everything.  Nothing in particular, only that it's so warm and sunny and pretty;
and you are so kind.  I wasn't thinking anything, only being happy."

"`Only being happy,' were you?" he repeated softly.  "Does it seem so easy, little Mamzelle?
Some of the richest men in the world would give all their money if you could teach them that
little secret.  `Only being happy' is a very difficult thing to some of us as we grow older
in this world."

Pixie looked at him with an anxious scrutiny.

"But you were happy once, weren't you," she asked, "before you were miserable?  People have
been kind to you too, and made you happy before you began to be worried?"

"I worried!  I miserable!  Mamzelle, what can you mean?  I am out for a picnic, with three
charming ladies for my guests.  How can I be anything but proud and delighted?"

He spoke with affected hilarity; but Pixie was not so easily convinced, and shook her head
incredulously as she replied--

"No--you are not happy, really--not through and through!  Ye sigh in the middle of laughing,
and think of something else when you pretend to listen.  I've been in trouble meself.  Once
there was an awful time when the girls sent me to Coventry for weeks on end, and there was
a horrid dull pain inside me, as if I'd swallowed up a lump of lead.  Was someone unkind to
you too?"

He laughed--a short, mirthless laugh--and pushed his hair from his brow. It was a strange thing
that he should dream of confiding his story to this bit of a girl, yet never before had he
known such an impulse to speak.

"No, Mademoiselle," he said,--"not unkind; it was not in her nature to be that.  The mistake
was all on my side.  I was a conceited coxcomb to think that she could ever care for me; but
I did think it, and went on dreaming my foolish castle in the air, until one day it fell to
the ground, and left me sitting among the ruins."

"It was a heart affair, then!  I thought it was," cried Pixie shrewdly. "I heard a lot about
heart affairs in Paris, and I had a sister once who was married.  Her husband used to look
just like you do when she was cross to him; but really and truly she wanted to be kind, and
now they are married and living happily ever after.  It will come all right for you too, some day!"

"No, never!  There's no hope of that.  She married someone else.  That was the news which came
to me one day and wrecked my castle!"

"Oh, oh!--how could she!  The misguided creature!  And when she might have had you instead!
I'd marry you myself if I were big enough!" cried Pixie in a fervour of indignation which was
more soothing than any expressions of sympathy; and the Captain stretched out his hand and
patted her tenderly on the shoulder.

"Would you really?  That's very sweet of you.  Thank you, dear, for the compliment.  We will
be real good friends in any case, won't we? and you will keep my confidence, for no one in
this place knows anything about it.  And we won't talk of it any more, I think; it's rather
a sore subject, don't you know.  We might begin unpacking those baskets.  The children will
want their tea."

CHAPTER THIRTY.

IN THE LOCK.

The tea-making was attended with the usual excitements, and the kettle- boiling with the inevitable
misadventures.  A scouting party was organised to discover a sheltered spot in which to lay
the fire, but although until this minute the day had appeared absolutely calm and tranquil,
all the winds of heaven seemed to unite in blowing upon that unfortunate fire from the moment
that the match was applied!

When at long last a feeble flame was established, the sticks promptly collapsed and precipitated
the kettle to the ground; when rebuilt more solidly, it died out for want of a draught; and
when at last, and at last, and at very long last, the smoke was seen issuing from the kettle-
spout, lo, the water was smoked, and unfit to drink!  So decided the Captain, at least, but
while he drank milk with the little girls, Pixie emptied the tea-pot with undiminished enjoyment.

"It gives it a flavour," she said.  "I like to taste what I'm drinking."

It was not a trifle like smoked tea which would mar Mamzelle Paddy's enjoyment when on pleasure
bent!

The Captain's preparations had been on so lavish a scale that there was quite a supply of good
things left when the meal was finished, and by a kindly thought these were packed together
to give to the children of the lock-keeper on the way up stream.

When every odd piece of paper had been religiously collected and packed in the hamper with
the cups and saucers, the little girls were lifted into the boat, Pixie pulled the rudder-ropes
over her shoulders, and the Captain pushed the boat from the shore and jumped lightly into
his seat.

They were off again, rowing homewards and passing once more all the fascinating landmarks which
they had noticed on the way down.  The picnickers on the banks were fastening hampers and preparing
to depart; on the green lawns by the waterside servants were flitting to and fro carrying trays
into the house.  Inda was beginning to yawn and long for bed.  She leant against Pixie, the
weight of the small head becoming ever heavier and heavier, but roused up again as the boat
entered the "box," as she persisted in calling a lock.  She wanted to hand out the parcel of
good things without a moment's delay, but the Captain told her to wait until the water had
lifted the boat nearer to the bank.

It seemed an extraordinary thing that, whereas, in passing through the lock before they had
gone down, down, down, they should now rise higher with every moment that passed.  The children
had a hundred questions to ask, while the Captain stood up and kept the boat in position with
a boat-hook.  He explained the mystery as simply as possible, and also why he was at such pains
to keep at a safe distance from the walls.

"You see those things sticking out from the side of the boat into which I put my oars?  They
are called `rollocks,' and when you are coming up stream through a lock you have to be careful
indeed not to let them catch under any of the beams.  It would be almost impossible to get
them loose again, you see, because every moment more water would pour in, and press them tighter
and tighter!"

"And what would it do to us if it did press them?"  Viva inquired curiously, whereat the Captain
smiled and shook his head.

"Something very disagreeable, I'm afraid--give us all a good wetting in the water!  You needn't
be afraid of that, though, when you are with me, for I shall take good care of my little crew.
You see how far I keep away with this oar."

"Yes, I see.  But why does one end of the boat stick out into the middle, and the other into
the side?"

"It's the current that sweeps it round, the force of the water that is coming in under the
gates.  That doesn't matter so long as we are not caught."

"But the end is caught, isn't it?  That little bit of iron that sticks up at the pointed end!"
cried Pixie suddenly.  She was densely ignorant of all that concerns boats, and invariably
alluded to the bow and the stern as the "blunt" and "pointed" ends, to the Captain's intense
amusement.

This time, however, he did not smile.  Pixie saw his face set suddenly as he turned his head
to look in the direction of her outstretched finger, but his voice sounded reassuringly confident.

"Oh, I see!  Yes.  Let me pass you, dear, for a moment.  Sit quite still!"

He stepped past her into the space occupied by the hampers, and stamped vigorously first with
one foot, then with two, jumped with all his weight, then stepped quickly back to the centre
of the boat and called to the man at the sluices--

"Hi, there!  Stop!  My boat is caught!  Turn off that water!  Quick, man, do you hear me!"

But the man's head was turned in the opposite direction, and he was so much engrossed with
his work that it was some moments before he heard, and meantime it was terrifying to see how
swiftly the water arose, how dangerously near to its edge grew the side of the boat!  The children
began to shriek and stand on their seats, and the Captain seized Inda in his arms and held
her up, calling loudly for help.

The lock-keeper was hurriedly dropping the sluices, but at the sound of the continued cries
his wife ran out of the house and across the bridgeway.  In another moment she would be able
to lift Inda ashore; but Viva, frantic with terror, was clamouring to be taken too, and Pixie
impetuously lifted her towards the bank.

What happened next it is difficult to describe, so swiftly did it happen, so like a nightmare
did it appear for ever after in the memories of those concerned.  The woman came rushing forward,
followed by her husband; they seized the children and dragged them on the bank.

The boat, relieved suddenly of a weight, gave an unexpected lurch, and the next moment Pixie
and the Captain were in the water.  The children screamed aloud in terror, but the Captain
had hardly disappeared before he was up again, capless, and shaking the water from his head,
but looking none the worse for his ducking.  But it was a long, agonising minute before there
came a swirling and bubbling at the end of the lock, and Pixie's white, unconscious little
face floated on the surface.  The Captain's arm was round her in an instant, the lock-keeper
threw a rope to help him to the iron ladder fixed in the walls of the lock, and between them
the two men carried the dripping figure along the bank and into the house.

There was a sofa in an inner room, and there they laid her, while the woman, assisted by her
eldest daughter, took off the wringing garments and wrapped her round with warm blankets and
coverings.  The Captain ran out into the village, sent a messenger flying for a doctor, and
rushed back again in terror lest the two little girls should have taken advantage of his absence
to get into fresh mischief.

This was a pretty ending to their expedition!  What would Mrs Wallace say to him when he got
home, and what should he say to himself if through any fault or carelessness a serious injury
had happened to sweet little Mamzelle!

"Why on earth do they want to put these irons at the end of a boat? Wretched, dangerous things!"
cried the distracted man to himself.  "To think that I have been through a thousand locks in
safety, and that this should have happened just when I had made myself responsible for a party
of children!  Never again!  Never again, if I get safely out of this!  I wonder how long that
doctor fellow will take to come along?"

Viva and Inda were sitting in the front kitchen, glancing askance at several rosy, curly-headed
children who were shyly huddled together by the door.  The fascination of new surroundings
and possible new playmates had diverted their minds from their misfortunes, and the Captain
heaved a sigh of relief as he passed into the inner room.

The lock-keeper's wife had filled two bottles with hot water, and put one to Pixie's feet,
and another between her cold hands; a towel was wrapped round the wet locks with somewhat ghastly
effect, and the young man shivered as he looked down at the still, white face.

"She is not--she can't be--" he faltered, not having the courage to pronounce the dread word;
and to his inexpressible relief the woman smiled at the thought.

"Not she!  Stunned a bit, that's all.  Perhaps hit her head in falling. I've often had them
like this before, and they are pretty well all right in a few hours.  We have a lot of people
up here in summertime who know nothing about managing a boat--no offence to you, sir--I daresay
you are well accustomed to them, but accidents will happen!"

"I thought I was!" sighed the Captain dismally.  He knelt down by the couch, and touched the
cold cheek with his fingers.  "Feels a little warmer, doesn't she?  For goodness' sake, take
that thing off her head, I can't bear to see it."

The woman lifted the head from the pillow to unloosen the tight folds, and at the movement
Pixie sighed, and opened wide, bewildered eyes.  For the first moment they held nothing but
blankest surprise at finding herself in so extraordinary a position, but, even as the Captain
held his breath in suspense, a spark of remembrance came into the clear depths, and the face
lit up with a flickering merriment.

"Were we drowned?" she whispered hoarsely.  "The two of us?--Viva jumped, and the boat slipped,
and my feet went down.  Who saved me?  Was it you?"

"I suppose it was, but it was not a very heroic rescue--only a few yards to the bank.  You
are sure you feel all right?  Quite warm and comfortable?  Your head doesn't ache?"

Pixie shook her dishevelled head from side to side, frowning the while in speculative fashion.

"I think it does--a little bit, but I'm not quite sure.  It feels muzzy!" she declared, with
a gesture and accent which lent some enlightenment to the enigmatical expression.  Then she
stretched out a hand, and touched him anxiously on the shoulder.  "You're drenched! You'll
catch all sorts of diseases in those wet clothes.  Can't you have some blankets too?  I'm so
lovely and warm."

"My husband is putting out some clothes for you upstairs, sir.  You had better go and change.
The young lady is all right now, and I will tell you when the doctor comes."

"Doctor!  Is a doctor coming?  To see me?"  Pixie asked, rapturously incredulous.

To find herself the heroine of an adventure, a genuine thrilling adventure, to lie stretched
upon a sofa, wrapped in blankets, with two attendants anxiously inquiring her symptoms; to
know that a doctor was hurrying to her side--this was indeed a glorious ending to the day's
enjoyment!  She lay back on the cushions wreathed in smiles, and the doctor, coming in hurriedly,
was somewhat taken aback to behold so radiant a patient.

"I fainted!" cried Pixie proudly.  "I never fainted before in all my life.  I don't remember
a single thing after I slipped, until I woke up on this sofa."

"Indeed!--and a very sensible arrangement.  Just as well to know nothing about these disagreeable
experiences."

The doctor smiled, and fingered her head with a careful touch.  "Does that hurt you?  No? 
Does that?  Do you feel any tenderness there?  A little bit, eh?  You don't like me to press
it?  You probably grazed yourself slightly as you fell, and that caused the `faint.'  Nothing
serious, though.  You need not be frightened."

"I like it!" said Pixie stoutly, and the burst of laughter with which the two hearers greeted
this statement, sounded pleasantly in the Captain's ears as he dressed himself in the lock-keeper's
Sunday garments in the room overhead.

CHAPTER THIRTY ONE.

LOVERS' MEETINGS.

The doctor saw no reason why Pixie should not be driven home, and offered to order a closed
carriage in the village, and pending its arrival, the adventurers enjoyed another cup of tea,
not smoked this time, and made merry over the change in their appearance, wrought by the borrowed
clothing.

Pixie's red merino dress was the pride of little Miss Lock-keeper's heart, but about two sizes
too big for its present occupant.  The bodice hung in folds about her tiny figure, the sleeves
came down to her finger-tips; the Captain's shiny black suit made him appear quite clumsy and
awkward, but that was all part of the fun, in the estimation of three members of the party,
at least.

Mrs Wallace was undecided whether to laugh or to cry as she welcomed her truants and listened
to the story of their adventures.  Nothing would satisfy her but to despatch Pixie to bed forthwith,
to that young lady's intense mortification, and to order the Captain upstairs to have a hot
bath and a dose of quinine.  When he came downstairs, she was putting a letter in the post-box
in the hall, and, motioning towards it, explained its purport.

"I've been writing to Mamzelle's sister in London.  These lock accidents get into the papers
sometimes, and are generally exaggerated into something really so thrilling and terrible. 
It's best to tell the true story ourselves."

"And I have brought this trouble upon you!  I could kick myself for my stupidity.  You will
never trust me again, but please make me the scapegoat to the sister, and let her wreak her
wrath on me.  It's not fair that you should be blamed."

"Oh, I am not afraid of any wrath, I assure you.  She's a charming girl, and as sweet as Mamzelle
herself.  I have asked her to come down to- morrow and see for herself that there is no harm
done.  I thought that was the best way out of the difficulty; and please don't blame yourself
too much.  It was an accident, and we must just be very, very thankful that you were all preserved
from harm."

The next morning the Captain took himself off for a long walk, ostensibly to call on some friends,
in reality to avoid meeting the visitor from town; for though a man may boldly acknowledge
his responsibility and offer to bear the blame, he has an instinctive shrinking from the society
of females in distress, and will walk a very long distance in order to avoid anything like a scene.

It seemed the height of bad fortune that this particular visitor should arrive in the afternoon,
instead of the morning, and that he should stumble into the library almost immediately after
she had arrived.  She was seated on an ottoman with her back towards him, but Mrs Wallace's
quick exclamation took away any chance of retreating unseen.

"Why, here he is!" she cried.  "This is the culprit, or the hero, whichever you choose to call
him.  Come and tell your own story, Dick. This is Mademoiselle's sister, Miss O'Shaughnessy."

But he had recognised her already.  She had turned her head as Mrs Wallace spoke, and beneath
the curving brim of the hat he had seen the face which had been enshrined in his heart for
three long years, the sweet face which had brought to him at once the greatest joy and the
bitterest sorrow of his life!  He stood still in the middle of the room, staring at her as
if suddenly turned to stone, and Bridgie rose to her feet, the pretty colour fading out of
her cheeks, her lips a-tremble with emotion.

Mrs Wallace looked from one to the other, and with a woman's intuition divined something very
nearly approaching the truth.  Dick was quite changed from his old happy self--everyone had
noticed it, and speculated as to the cause.  In his last furlough he had stayed some time in
Ireland.  Could it be--could it possibly be--

"You have met before?" she said quickly.  "That is very nice.  You know each other, and can
talk over yesterday's adventure without my help. Will you excuse me if I leave you for a few
moments, while I give some orders to the maids?"

No one answered, but she lost no time in hurrying from the room, and as the door closed behind
her, the Captain came slowly across the room, staring at Bridgie's white face.

"Miss O'Shaughnessy!  She called you `Miss O'Shaughnessy'!"

She shrank before him, scared by his strange, excited manner.

"Yes, it is my name.  I am Bridgie O'Shaughnessy.  Don't you remember me?"

"Remember you!" he repeated with an emphasis which was more eloquent than a hundred protestations.
He seized her hands in a painful pressure.  "You are not married, then?  It was not true! 
You did not marry him as they told me?"

"I?  You thought I was married!  Oh, what put such an idea into your head?"

"I heard it eighteen months ago--shortly after your last letter arrived, telling me about your
father, and hinting at other changes which might follow.  My friend wrote that Miss O'Shaughnessy
was engaged to a fellow with a lot of money--Hilliard--that they were going to be married almost
at once.  Was it all an invention?  Was there no truth in it at all?"

"It was quite true--quite, but it was Esmeralda, not me!  She married him over a year ago."

"Esmeralda! your sister--but he said the eldest daughter, and you are the eldest.  I knew I
was not mistaken about that, for I remember every word you had told me."

Bridgie smiled faintly; the colour was coming back into her cheeks, and the grey eyes met his
with shy, incredulous happiness.

"But most people give her the credit for it, all the same.  There's so much more of her, you
see.  You never wrote to--to ask if it were true?"

"I was too proud and hurt, badly hurt, Bridgie--mortally badly!  And you never wrote to ask
why I was silent.  Were you proud too, or contemptuous--which was it?  Did you think I was
nothing but a flirt, and a heartless one at that?"

"I never thought unkindly of you, but I suppose I was proud, for I couldn't write when all
the money was gone, and I was so poor.  I thought you had forgotten, or met someone else! 
I hoped you were very happy, only I--wasn't!" faltered Bridgie, with a little break in her
voice as she spoke that last word, which brought the tears to the Captain's eyes.  He bent
his head over the clasped hands, and kissed them a dozen times over.

"Bridgie, Bridgie!" he cried brokenly.  "Is it true?  Have I found you again after all these
years?  Can you forgive me for this wretched blunder which has brought such unhappiness upon
us both?  I am thankful to know you were unhappy too, for I had nothing to go on, Bridgie,
no claim whatever upon you, only you must have guessed how I felt.  I could not believe that
you had really given yourself to me in that short time."

"I couldn't myself!" said Bridgie naively.  "I tried to pretend that it was all a mistake,
and that I was quite happy without you."  She looked up at him shyly, and shook her head in
the most beguiling denial. "'Twas not a mite of use.  I remember all the same!  And are you
sure-- quite sure--that you thought of me all the time?  Was there never anyone else all these
long, long years?"

The Captain smiled and stroked his moustache in amused, contemplative fashion.

"There was never anyone, except one girl!  I met one girl who quite stole my heart, and I think
I stole hers into the bargain."

"Oh! oh!  How dreadful!  Why did you tell me?  But you didn't--you never thought of marrying
her, did you, Dick?"

"I'm not so sure.  She did!"  He laughed, and seized her hands once more.  "No, it is too bad!
I won't tease you.  It was Mamzelle Paddy, darling, to whom I confided my story, and who comforted
me in her own sweet fashion.  And she is your sister, and it is she who has brought us together!
Bridgie, if I didn't love you with all my heart, I believe I should still have to marry you,
for nothing else than to be Mamzelle's brother."

But Bridgie did not affect to be jealous.  She threw back her head, and smiled happily as she
answered, "I'm thankful to hear you say it, for whoever marries me must love Pixie too.  I
can never leave her behind me!"

CHAPTER THIRTY TWO.

CONCLUSION.

The news of Captain Victor's engagement and long attachment to the charming Miss O'Shaughnessy
caused the greatest interest and excitement among the guests at the cottage, while his old
friends rejoiced to see the happy brightness on his face.

"Welcome home, Dick!"  Mr Wallace cried, shaking him warmly by the hand.  "Thankful to see
you back again, instead of that other fellow who has been moping about in your clothes!" and
Pixie commented on the announcement with her usual outspoken honesty.

"I told ye it would come all right!  I suppose it was you Bridgie was fretting about, when
I thought it was the bills!  She's got dips in her cheeks, only you can't see them now, because
she's blushing.  I'm glad you are coming into the family, but I don't see how you can ever
be married!  She can't be spared!"

The Captain laughed at that statement, and vowed that she would have to be spared, and that
at an early date; but a shadow fell across Bridgie's face, and as they sat alone in the garden
she said anxiously--

"I am afraid I have been selfish, Dick!  I can think of nothing but you, but, after all, Pixie
was quite right--I can't possibly be spared for a long time to come.  She won't be old enough
to take charge of a house for three years at the soonest, and Jack has been so good and unselfish
that I couldn't possibly leave him in the lurch.  You have waited so long that you won't mind
waiting a few years longer, will you?"

"It doesn't seem to me a particularly logical conclusion, sweetheart!" the Captain said, smiling.
"Personally I feel that I ought to be rewarded at once, but I won't make any promises one way
or another until I have met your brother and heard his views.  Don't worry yourself, you shan't
do anything that you feel to be wrong, but I don't despair of finding a solution of the difficulty.
When it is an alternative between that and waiting for you for three years, Bridgie, I shall
be very, very resourceful!"

"I don't know what you can do.  It's no use suggesting a housekeeper-- the boys would not hear
of it, and she'd be destroyed in a week with the life they would lead her!"  So argued Bridgie,
but she was willing to be convinced, and too happy in the present to feel much concern for
the future.

The weight of depression which had lain on her heart despite her brave cheeriness of manner
was lifted once and for ever now that she was convinced of Dick's faithful love, and it seemed
impossible that she could ever be more content than at this moment.  Until now almost all the
joys of her life had come from an unselfish pleasure in the good fortune of others, but this
wonderful new happiness was her very own, hers and Dick's, and she could hardly believe that
it was true, and not a wonderful dream.

Mrs Wallace's letter had conveyed an invitation to stay for the night, so the lovers had two
days to sit and talk together in the lovely summer garden before returning to give an account
of themselves in Rutland Road.

Jack was not prepared to see a stranger accompanying his sister, but he welcomed him with Irish
heartiness, and guessed how the land lay at the first glance at Bridgie's face.  So did Pat;
so did Miles; but they concealed their suspicions with admirable tact, and talked persistently
through the evening meal with intent to relieve the embarrassment which was so evidently experienced
by the hostess.

Poor Bridgie was painfully conscious of the enormity of her conduct as she looked from one
to the other of her three big brothers.  Jack's manner was nervous and excited.  Poor fellow!
he was evidently dreading the explanations which were in store.  Pat was looking pale; he grew
so fast that he needed constant care.  Miles kept handing her the mustard with sympathetic
effusion; he had a heart of gold and could be led with a word, but it must be the right word,
and woe to the housekeeper of the future if she tried to rule by force!  She smiled at him
with wistful apology, and Miles patted her hand affectionately under the tablecloth.

It was a pity when a sensible girl like Bridgie made an idiot of herself by falling in love,
but they all seemed to do it sooner or later, and there was no use making a fuss, Master Miles
told himself resignedly. She seemed to have met this Captain Victor years ago, and to have
corresponded with him in India, but she had never mentioned his name at home.  How strange
to know that Bridgie had had an interest beyond her own brothers and sisters!  Miles felt mildly
aggrieved, but consoled himself by the reflection that the Captain seemed a decent sort of
fellow with plenty to say for himself.  He had been on active service twice already, and though
he refused details of manslaughter, gave such a graphic account of tiger-shooting expeditions
as made Miles's lips water, and aroused rebellious repinings at his own hard lot in living
in a miserable suburb where the only sport to be obtained was the tracking of a few superfluous
cats!

When dinner was over, the two boys discreetly lingered behind while their elders retired to
the drawing-room, and Bridgie grew rosy red with embarrassment as the door closed behind them.

"We wanted to tell you, Jack--" she began nervously.  "I would have told you before, only there
was nothing to tell.  There isn't now!  At least, I mean, it won't be for a long, long time,
dear.  Not until you don't want me any more."

"Better let me try, Bridgie!" cried the Captain, laughing.  He put his hand on her shoulder
in a proudly possessive fashion, and looked Jack full in the face.  "She is dreadfully afraid
of what you will say, and ashamed of herself for daring to think of anything but her home duties.
It doesn't seem to strike her that she has a duty to me too, when I have been thinking of her
for the last three years.  I must explain to you, O'Shaughnessy, that a friend wrote to tell
me that your eldest sister was about to be married to a man called Hilliard, and by an unfortunate
coincidence Bridgie herself had vaguely referred to coming changes in her last letter, so I
believed the report, and we have mutually been eating our hearts, and believing the other to
be faithless.  There was no engagement, you must understand, but I made up my mind about her
the first day we met, and she now acknowledges that she ran away because she was afraid I might
interfere with her home claims.  You see, I have already spared her to you for three good years,
so I think it is my turn now!  My friends will tell you that I have been miserably dull and
surly, and for their sakes alone I feel I ought to make a stand."

"And Bridgie has been always sweet and cheerful.  We have each expected her to be sorry for
us in turns, and never once suspected that she needed us to be sorry for her too.  Thank you,
Bridgie!" said Jack, looking across at her with a loving look which was the sweetest reward
which she could possibly have received for the struggles which had been so gallantly concealed.

"It was my greatest comfort to have you all to work and care for when I thought he had--forgotten!"
she cried hastily.  "And I have loved helping you, Jack!  Please speak honestly, dear, let
us all speak out honestly.  Of course I want to be with Dick, but I want most of all to do
what is right--we all do--and the children must come first.  You can't be left alone, Jack,
and there is no one else to take my place."

"Unless--" began Jack slowly.  Bridgie looked at him in surprise, and saw the red flush come
creeping up from beneath his collar, touch his cheeks, and mount up and up to the roots of
his curling hair.  "Unless I married myself!" he said breathlessly, and at that Bridgie darted
forward and caught him by both hands.

"What?  What?  What?  Jack, what do you mean?  Is it Sylvia?  Of course it is Sylvia!  And
does she--Jack, what does it mean?  Are you engaged too?  Have you been keeping it from me
because you thought--"

"We wouldn't let you think you were in our way; we loved you too much, old girl, so we were
quietly waiting until--"

"I came along!" concluded Dick Victor tersely.

The three young people stood staring at each other for a moment, and the tears brimmed over
in Bridgie's eyes, but presently she began to laugh, and the young men joined in with a sense
of the happiest relief.  Each one had been thinking of the other, and putting personal hopes
in the background, and lo, in the simplest, most delightful of fashions, the knot was cut,
and each was left free to be happy after his heart's desire.

"Oh, it's perfectly, perfectly perfect!"  Bridgie cried rapturously. "The boys adore Sylvia,
and will be her devoted slaves; she is twice the housekeeper that I am, and she has been so
lonely, poor darling, without her parents.  Oh, Jack, how nice of you to care for her, and
give her a home!"

"That's what she says!" replied Jack naively.  "Shall we send for her to join the council?
She ought to have her say.  I'll run across--"

"No, no!  Send Mary.  I want to see her first--I want to see exactly how she looks when she
knows she is found out," Bridgie insisted; so Mary was promptly despatched on her errand, and
back came Sylvia, wondering and excited, and not a little mystified by the presence of the
tall stranger.

"Master Jack has good taste!" said the Captain to himself as he looked at the dainty figure
and erect little head with its crop of curls. "Rather an embarrassing position for the poor
girl!  Hope they break it to her gently!"

But it was not the O'Shaughnessy custom to break news gently, or in a circuitous fashion, and
the moment Sylvia entered the doorway, Bridgie flew at her with outstretched arms, crying incoherently,
and with sublime disregard of grammar--

"Oh, Sylvia, Sylvia, I'm engaged!  That's him!  It's been a mistake all the time, and we are
going to be married at once.  We are all going to be married!  Dick and me, and you and Jack,
and you are coming here to look after the house!  I thought I couldn't be married because of
Jack, and he thought he couldn't be married because of me, and now it's all right, and we can
all be happy.  I congratulate you, Sylvia! Congratulate me!  I made Jack let me tell you, for
I knew you would be so surprised.  Don't you feel too bewildered to take it in?"

"I do!" replied Sylvia, with much truth.  Red as a rose was she, at this sudden and public
announcement of her engagement, not knowing where to look, or what to say, yet with a consciousness
of immense happiness to come, and unfeigned delight at the happy ending to Bridgie's love-story.

Dick Victor came forward and introduced himself, and presently they all seated themselves,
and tried to discuss the future in staid, responsible fashion.  The Captain expected to be
quartered in England for the immediate future, but could not of course be certain of his ultimate
movements.  He proposed that he and Bridgie should look out for a furnished house, so as to
have a home of their own and yet be ready for such changes as might arise.

Jack anxiously questioned Sylvia as to the responsibility which would be hers, and she professed
herself only too ready to sister the two dear boys.

"And Pixie--I should love to have Pixie!" she cried, whereat Bridgie frowned, and fidgeted
restlessly on the sofa.

"We will make definite arrangements later on," she said.  "Everything cannot be decided at
once.  The boys will be quite enough trouble for you, me dear!  They are as good as gold, but
they will grow, and their clothes wear out so fast, and since we came to town they've taken
a distaste to patches, and they want money in their own pockets, the same as the other boys
they meet.  `If I give you some shillings just to jingle, and show they are there, will that
satisfy you?'  I asked Pat only last week, and he laughed in my face!  It's hard to say `No'
when they smile at you, Sylvia, but you'll have to do it."

"I--don't--know!" said Sylvia slowly.  The others looked at her questioningly, and she turned
to Jack with a sparkling face.  "I was waiting for a chance of telling you.  Mr Nisbet telegraphed
to Ceylon about father's death, and I've had a letter from his lawyers.  It came last night,
and I'm rich, Jack!  Isn't it lovely?--really quite rich! The lawsuit was settled in his favour,
and he was coming home to settle, and now everything comes to me.  I can help with the boys,
and some day, when you are ready, we can go back to Knock, and live in the old home again!
I've been so happy since I heard, thinking that at last I could do something for you too. 
You are pleased about it, aren't you, Jack? Do say you are pleased!"

Jack's beaming smile was the best answer to that question.

"'Deed, I'm delighted!" he declared.  "I'll spend money with any man alive, and the more there
is, the better I'm pleased.  We will stay where we are and see the boys settled, and let Geoffrey
enjoy his lease, and then we'll go home, and I shall probably have some savings of my own to
add to yours by that time, and not feel I am living on my wife.  I'm thankful you have the
money, and I'm thankful that I knew nothing of it before we were engaged."

"And so am I!" said Sylvia softly.

A week later there was a second conference, at which every member of the family put in an appearance,
and the question of the hour was, "Who shall have Pixie?  Where shall Pixie have her home?"

"I am the head of the family.  It is the right thing that she should be with me.  Sylvia and
I would both like to have her, so it is unnecessary to discuss the point any further," said
Mr Jack, with an air.

"I don't wish to say anything in the least unkind to Sylvia--you know that, don't you, dear?"
cried Esmeralda the magnificent, sitting amidst billows of chiffon and lace, and smiling sweetly
across the room.  "But the fact remains that I am Pixie's real sister, and she is not; and
I think a sister's claim comes before a brother's.  Bridgie will have no settled home, and
I am at Knock.  Anyone might see at a glance that her home ought to be with me, under the circumstances."

"I want Pixie!" said Bridgie softly.  "I want Pixie!"

And Pixie sat on the edge of the sofa, and looked from one to the other with bright, bird-like
glances.  Everyone wanted her, everyone had an argument to prove a prior claim; they were all
arguing and struggling for the supreme happiness of welcoming her into their households.  It
was the happiest moment of her life.

"It's like Solomon and the babies!" she cried exultantly.  "Ye'll have to cut me in threes,
and divide the pieces.  Esmeralda shall have my head, for the times when she loses her own;
Sylvia shall have my feet, because she limps herself; and,"--she looked across the room deep
into Bridgie's eyes--"Bridgie shall have my heart!  It would be with her, anyway, wherever
she went."

The tears brimmed over in Bridgie's eyes; Esmeralda frowned quickly, then glanced at Geoffrey,
as he stood by her side, and softened into a smile.

Jack stifled a sigh, and said gravely--

"Pixie has settled the question for herself.  After that confession there can be no more to
say.  Take her, Bridgie, but be generous and spare her to us for part of the year.  We all
need you, Pixie--wise little head, willing little feet, loving little heart--every single bit
of you.  Come and help us as often as you can."

THE END.