The bad weather obliged me to take the railroad at Halberstadt, to keep the appointment with
my friend, in this city. I left at six for Magdeburg, and after two hours' ride over a dull,
tiresome plain, rode along under the mounds and fortifications by the side of the Elbe, and
entered the old town. It was very cold, and the streets were muddy, so I contented myself with
looking at the Broadway, (der breite Weg,) the Cathedral and one or two curious old churches,
and in walking along the parapet leading to the fortress, which has a view of the winding Elbe.
The Citadel was interesting from having been the prison in which Baron Trenck was confined,
whose narrative I read years ago, when quite a child.

We were soon on the road to Leipsic. The way was over one great, uninterrupted plain--a more
monotonous country, even, than Belgium. Two of the passengers in the car with me were much
annoyed at being taken by the railway agents for Poles. Their movements were strictly watched
by the gens d'arme at every station we passed, and they were not even allowed to sit together!
At Kothen a branch track went off to Berlin. We passed by Halle without being able to see anything
of it or its University, and arrived here in four hours after leaving Magdeburg.

On my first walk around the city, yesterday morning, I passed the Augustus Platz--a broad green
lawn, on which front the University and several other public buildings. A chain of beautiful
promenades encircles the city, on the site of its old fortifications. Following their course
through walks shaded by large trees and bordered with flowering shrubs, I passed a small but
chaste monument to Sebastian Bach, the composer, which was erected almost entirely at the private
cost of Mendelssohn, and stands opposite the building in which Bach once directed the choirs.
As I was standing beside it, a glorious choral, swelled by a hundred voices, came through the
open windows, like a tribute to the genius of the great master.

Having found my friend we went together to the Stern Warte, or Observatory, which gives a fine
view of the country around the city, and in particular the battle field. The Castellan who
is stationed there, is well acquainted with the localities, and pointed out the position of
the hostile armies. It was one of the most bloody and hard-fought battles which history records.
The army of Napoleon stretched like a semicircle around the southern and eastern sides of the
city, and the plain beyond was occupied by the allies, whose forces met together here. Schwarzenberg,
with his Austrians, came from Dresden; Blucher, from Halle, with the Emperor Alexander. Their
forces amounted to three hundred thousand, while those of Napoleon ranked at one hundred and
ninety-two thousand men. It must have been a terrific scene. Four days raged the battle, and
the meeting of half a million of men in deadly conflict was accompanied by the thunder of sixteen
hundred cannon. The small rivers which flow through Leipsic were swollen with blood, and the
vast plain was strewed with more than fifty thousand dead. It is difficult to conceive of such
slaughter, while looking at the quiet and tranquil landscape below. It seemed more like a legend
of past ages, when ignorance and passion led men to murder and destroy, than an event which
the last half century witnessed. For the sake of humanity it is to be hoped that the world
will never see such another.

There are some lovely walks around Leipsic. We went yesterday afternoon with a few friends
to the Rosenthal, a beautiful meadow, bordered by forests of the German oak, very few of whose
Druid trunks have been left standing. There are Swiss cottages embowered in the foliage, where
every afternoon the social citizens assemble to drink their coffee enjoy a few hours' escape
from the noisy and dusty streets, One can walk for miles along these lovely paths by the side
of the velvet meadows, or the banks of some shaded stream. We visited the little village of
Golis, a short distance off, where, in the second story of a little white house, hangs the
sign: "Schiller's Room." Some of the Leipsic literati have built a stone arch over the entrance,
with the inscription above: "Here dwelt Schiller in 1795, and wrote his Hymn to Joy." Every
where through Germany the remembrances of Schiller are sacred. In every city where he lived,
they show his dwelling. They know and reverence the mighty spirit who has been among them.
The little room where he conceived that sublime poem is hallowed as if by the presence of unseen
spirits.

I was anxious to see the spot where Poniatowsky fell. We returned over the plain to the city
and passed in at the gate by which the Cossacks entered, pursuing the flying French. Crossing
the lower part, we came to the little river Elster, in whose waves the gallant prince sank.
The stone bridge by which we crossed was blown up by the French, to cut off pursuit. Napoleon
had given orders that it should not be blown up till the Poles had all passed over, as the
river, though narrow, is quite deep, and the banks are steep. Nevertheless, his officers did
not wait, and the Poles, thus exposed to the fire of the enemy, were obliged to plunge into
the stream to join the French army, which had begun the retreat towards Frankfort. Poniatowsky,
severely wounded, made his way through a garden near and escaped on horseback into the water.
He became entangled among the fugitives and sank. By walking a little distance along the road
towards Frankfort, we could see the spot where his body was taken out of the river; it is now
marked by a square stone, covered with the names of his countrymen who have visited it. We
returned through the narrow arched way, by which Napoleon fled when the battle was lost.

Another interesting place in Leipsic is Auerback's Cellar, which, it is said, contains an old
manuscript history of Faust, from which Goethe derived the first idea of his poem. He used
to frequent this cellar, and one of his scenes in "Faust" is laid in it. We looked down the
arched passage; not wishing to purchase any wine, we could find no pretence for entering. The
streets are full of book stores and one half the business of the inhabitants appears to consist
in printing, paper-making and binding. The publishers have a handsome Exchange of their own,
and during the Fairs, the amount of business transacted is enormous. The establishment of Brockhaus
is contained in an immense building, adjoining which stands his dwelling, in the midst of magnificent
gardens. That of Tauchnitz is not less celebrated. His edition of the classics, in particular,
are the best that have ever been made; and he has lately commenced publishing a number of English
works, in a cheap form. Otto Wigand, who has also a large establishment, has begun to issue
translations of American works. He has already published Prescott and Bancroft, and I believe
intends giving out shortly, translations from some of our poets and novelists. I became acquainted
at the Museum, with a young German author who had been some time in America, and was well versed
in our literature. He is now engaged in translating American works, one of which--Hoffman's
"Wild Scenes of the Forest and Prairie"--will soon appear. In no place in Germany have I found
more knowledge of our country, her men and her institutions, than in Leipsic, and as yet I
have seen few that would be preferable as a place of residence. Its attractions lie not in
its scenery, but in the social and intellectual character of its inhabitants.

May 11.--At last in this "Florence of the Elbe," as the Saxons have christened it. Exclusive
of its glorious galleries of art, which are scarcely surpassed by any in Europe, Dresden charms
one by the natural beauty of its environs. It stands in a curve of the Elbe, in the midst of
green meadows, gardens and fine old woods, with the hills of Saxony sweeping around like an
amphitheatre, and the craggy peaks of the Highlands looking at it from afar. The domes and
spires at a distance give it a rich Italian look, which is heightened by the white villas,
embowered in trees, gleaming on the hills around. In the streets there is no bustle of business--nothing
of the din and confusion of traffic which mark most cities; it seems like a place for study
and quiet enjoyment.

The railroad brought us in three hours from Leipsic, over the eighty miles of plain that intervene.
We came from the station through the Neustadt, passing the Japanese Palace and the equestrian
statue of Augustus the Strong, The magnificent bridge over the Elbe was so much injured by
the late inundation as to be impassable; we worn obliged to go some distance up the river bank
and cross on a bridge of boats. Next morning my first search was for the picture gallery. We
set off at random, and after passing the Church of Our Lady, with its lofty dome of solid stone,
which withstood the heaviest bombs during the war with Frederick the Great, came to an open
square, one side of which was occupied by an old, brown, red-roofed building, which I at once
recognized, from pictures, as the object of our search.

I have just taken a last look at the gallery this morning, and left it with real regret; for,
during the two visits, Raphael's heavenly picture of the Madonna and child had so grown into
my love and admiration, that it was painful to think I should never see it again. There are
many more which clung so strongly to my imagination, gratifying in the highest degree the love
for the Beautiful, that I left them with sadness, and the thought that I would now only have
the memory. I can see the inspired eye and god-like brow of the Jesus-child, as if I were still
standing before the picture, and the sweet, holy countenance of the Madonna still looks upon
me. Yet, though this picture is a miracle of art, the first glance filled me with disappointment.
It has somewhat faded, during the three hundred years that have rolled away since the hand
of Raphael worked on the canvass, and the glass with which it is covered for better preservation,
injures the effect. After I had gazed on it awhile, every thought of this vanished. The figure
of the virgin seemed to soar in the air, and it was difficult to think the clouds were not
in motion. An aerial lightness clothes her form, and it is perfectly natural for such a figure
to stand among the clouds. Two divine cherubs look up from below, and in her arms sits the
sacred child. Those two faces beam from the picture like those of angels. The wild, prophetic
eye and lofty brow of the young Jesus chains one like a spell. There is something more than
mortal in its expression--something in the infant face which indicates a power mightier than
the proudest manhood. There is no glory around the head; but the spirit which shines from those
features, marks his divinity. In the sweet face of the mother there speaks a sorrowful foreboding
mixed with its tenderness, as if she knew the world into which the Saviour was born, and foresaw
the path in which he was to tread. It is a picture which one can scarce look upon without tears.

There are in the same room six pictures by Correggio, which are said to be among his best works;
one of them his celebrated Magdalen. There is also Correggio's "Holy Night," or the virgin
with the shepherds in the manger, in which all the light comes from the body of the child.
The surprise of the shepherds is most beautifully expressed. In one of the halls there is a
picture by Van der Werff, in which the touching story of Hagar is told more feelingly than
words could do it. The young Ishmael is represented full of grief at parting with Isaac, who,
in childish unconsciousness of what has taken place, draws in sport the corner of his mother's
mantle around him, and smiles at the tears of his lost playmate. Nothing can come nearer real
flesh and blood than the two portraits of Raphael Mengs, painted by himself when quite young.
You almost think the artist has in sport crept behind the frame, and wishes to make you believe
he is a picture. It would be impossible to speak of half the gems of art contained in this
unrivalled collection. There are twelve large halls, containing in all nearly two thousand
pictures.

The plain, south of Dresden, was the scene of the hard-fought battle between Napoleon and the
allied armies, in 1813. On the heights above the little village of Räcknitz, Moreau was shot
on the second day of the battle. We took a foot-path through the meadows, shaded by cherry
trees in bloom, and reached the spot after an hour's walk. The monument is simple--a square
block of granite, surmounted by a helmet and sword, with the inscription: "The hero Moreau
fell here by the side of Alexander, August 17th, 1813." I gathered, as a memorial, a few leaves
of the oak which shades it.

By applying an hour before the appointed time, we obtained admission to the Royal Library.
It contains three hundred thousand volumes--among them the most complete collection of historical
works in existence. Each hall is devoted to a history of a separate country, and one large
room is filled with that of Saxony alone. There is a large number of rare and curious manuscripts,
among which are old Greek works of the seventh and eighth centuries; a Koran which once belonged
to the Sultan Bajazet; the handwriting of Luther and Melancthon; a manuscript volume with pen
and ink sketches, by Albert Durer, and the earliest works after the invention of printing.
Among these latter was a book published by Faust and Schaeffer, at Mayence, in 1457. There
were also Mexican manuscripts, written on the Aloe leaf, and many illuminated monkish volumes
of the middle ages.

We were fortunate in seeing the Grüne Gewölbe, or Green Gallery, a collection of jewels and
costly articles, unsurpassed in Europe. The entrance is only granted to six persons at a time,
who pay a fee of two thalers. The customary way is to employ a Lohnbedienter, who goes around
from one hotel to another, till he has collected the number, when he brings them together and
conducts them to the person in the palace, who has charge of the treasures. As our visit happened
to be during the Pentecost holidays, when every body in Dresden goes to the mountains, there
was some difficulty in effecting this, but after two mornings spent in hunting up curious travelers,
the servant finally conducted us in triumph to the palace. The first hall into which we were
ushered, contained works in bronze. They were all small, and chosen with regard to their artistical
value. Some by John of Bologna were exceedingly fine, as was also a group in iron, cut out
of a single block; perhaps the only successful attempt in this branch. The next room contained
statues, and vases covered with reliefs, in ivory. The most remarkable work was the fall of
Lucifer and his angels, containing ninety-two figures in all, carved out of a single piece
of ivory sixteen inches high! It was the work of an Italian monk, and cost him many years of
hard labor. There were two tables of mosaic-work, that would not be out of place in the fabled
halls of the eastern genii, so much did they exceed my former ideas of human skill. The tops
were of jasper, and each had a border of fruit and flowers, in which every color was represented
by some precious stone, all with the utmost delicacy and truth to nature! It is impossible
to conceive the splendid effect it produced. Besides some fine pictures on gold by Raphael
Mengs, there was a Madonna, the largest specimen of enamel painting in existence.

However costly the contents of these halls, they were only an introduction to those which followed.
Each one exceeded the other in splendor and costliness. The walls were covered to the ceiling
with rows of goblets, vases, &c., of polished jasper, agate and lapiz lazuli. Splendid mosaic
tables stood around, with caskets of the most exquisite silver and gold work upon them, and
vessels of solid silver, some of them weighing six hundred pounds were placed at the foot of
the columns. We were shown two goblets, each prized at six thousand thalers, made of gold and
precious stones; also the great pearl called the Spanish Dwarf, nearly as large as a pullet's
egg; globes and vases cut entirely out of the mountain crystal; magnificent Nuremberg watches
and clocks, and a great number of figures, made ingeniously of rough pearls and diamonds. The
officer showed us a hen's egg of silver. There was apparently nothing remarkable about it,
but by unscrewing, it came apart, and disclosed the yelk of gold. This again opened and a golden
chicken was seen; by touching a spring, a little diamond crown came from the inside, and the
crown being again taken apart, out dropped a valuable diamond ring! The seventh hall contains
the coronation robes of Augustus II., of Poland, and many costly specimens of carving in wood,
A cherry stone is shown in a glass case, which has one hundred and twenty-five faces, all perfectly
finished, carved upon it! The next room we entered sent back a glare of splendor that perfectly
dazzled us. It was all gold, diamond, ruby and sapphire! Every case sent out such a glow and
glitter that it seemed like a cage of imprisoned lightnings. Wherever the eye turned it was
met by a blaze of broken rainbows. They were there by hundreds, and every gem was a fortune.
Whole cases of swords, with hilts and scabbards of solid gold, studded with gems; the great
two-handed coronation sword of the German emperors; daggers covered with brilliants and rubies;
diamond buttons, chains and orders, necklaces and bracelets of pearl and emerald, and the order
of the Golden Fleece made in gems of every kind. We were also shown the largest known onyx,
nearly seven inches long and four inches broad! One of the most remarkable works is the throne
and court of Aurungzebe, the Indian king, by Dinglinger, a celebrated goldsmith of the last
century. It contains one hundred and thirty-two figures, all of enamelled gold, and each one
most perfectly and elaborately finished. It was purchased by Prince Augustus for fifty-eight
thousand thalers,[**] which was not a high sum, considering that the making of it occupied
Dinglinger and thirteen workmen for seven years!

It is almost impossible to estimate the value of the treasures these halls contain. That of
the gold and jewels alone must bo many millions of dollars, and the amount of labor expended
on these toys of royalty is incredible. As monuments of patient and untiring toil, they are
interesting: but it is sad to think how much labor and skill and energy have been wasted, in
producing things which are useless to the world, and only of secondary importance as works
of art. Perhaps, however, if men could be diverted by such play-things from more dangerous
games, it would be all the better.

[Footnote **: A Prussian or Saxon thaler is about 70 cts.]

CHAPTER XIX.

RAMBLES IN THE SAXON SWITZERLAND.

After four days' sojourn in Dresden we shouldered our knapsacks, not to be laid down again
till we reached Prague. We were elated with the prospect of getting among the hills again,
and we heeded not the frequent showers which had dampened the enjoyment of the Pentecost holidays,
to the good citizens of Dresden, and might spoil our own. So we trudged gaily along the road
to Pillnitz and waved an adieu to the domes behind us as the forest shut them out from view.
After two hours' walk the road led down to the Elbe, where we crossed in a ferry-boat to Pillnitz,
the seat of a handsome palace and gardens, belonging to the King of Saxony. He happened to
be there at the time, on an afternoon excursion from Dresden; as we had seen him before, in
the latter place, we passed directly on, only pausing to admire the flower-beds in the palace
court. The King is a tall, benevolent looking man, and is apparently much liked by his people.
As far as I have yet seen, Saxony is a prosperous and happy country. The people are noted all
over Germany for their honest, social character, which is written on their cheerful, open countenances.
On our entrance into the Saxon Switzerland, at Pillnitz, we were delighted with the neatness
and home-like appearance of every thing. Every body greeted us; if we asked for information,
they gave it cheerfully. The villages were all pleasant and clean and the meadows fresh and
blooming. I felt half tempted to say, in the words of an old ballad, which I believe Longfellow
has translated:

    "The fairest kingdom on this earth,
    It is the Saxon land!"

Going along the left bank of the Elbe, we passed over meadows purple with the tri-colored violet,
which we have at home in gardens, and every little bank was bright with cowslips. At length
the path led down into a cleft or ravine filled with trees, whose tops were on a level with
the country around. This is a peculiar feature of Saxon scenery. The country contains many
of these clefts, some of which are several hundred feet deep, having walls of perpendicular
rock, in whose crevices the mountain pine roots itself and grows to a tolerable height without
any apparent soil to keep it alive. We descended by a foot-path into this ravine, called the
Liebethaler Grund. It is wider than many of the others, having room enough for a considerable
stream and several mills. The sides are of sandstone rock, quite perpendicular. As we proceeded,
it grew narrower and deeper, while the trees covering its sides and edges nearly shut out the
sky. An hour's walk brought us to the end, where we ascended gradually to the upper level again.

After passing the night at the little village of Uttewalde, a short distance further, we set
out early in the morning for the Bastei, a lofty precipice on the Elbe. The way led us directly
through the Uttewalder Grund, the most remarkable of all these chasms. We went down by steps
into its depths, which in the early morning were very cold. Water dripped from the rocks, which
but a few feet apart, rose far above us, and a little rill made its way along the bottom, into
which the sun has never shone. Heavy masses of rock, which had tumbled down from the sides
lay in the way, and tall pine trees sprung from every cleft. In one place the defile is only
four feet wide, and a large mass of rock, fallen from above, has lodged near the bottom, making
an arch across, under which the traveller has to creep. After going under two or three arches
of this kind, the defile widened and an arrow cut upon a rock directed us to a side path, which
branched off from this into a mountain. Here the stone masses immediately assumed another form.
They projected out like shelves sometimes as much as twenty feet from the straight side, and
hung over the way, looking as if they might break off every moment. I felt glad when we had
passed under them. Then as we ascended higher, we saw pillars of rock separated entirely from
the side and rising a hundred feet in height, with trees growing on their summits. They stood
there gray and limeworn, like the ruins of a Titan temple.

The path finally led us out into the forest and through the clustering pine trees, to the summit
of the Bastei. An inn has been erected in the woods and an iron balustrade placed around the
rock. Protected by this, we advanced to the end of the precipice and looked down to the swift
Elbe, more than seven hundred feet below! Opposite through the blue mists of morning, rose
Königstein, crowned with an impregnable fortress, and the crags of Lilienstein, with a fine
forest around their base, frowned from the left bank. On both sides were horrible precipices
of gray rock, with rugged trees hanging from the crevices. A hill rising up from one side of
the Bastei, terminates suddenly a short distance from it, in on abrupt precipice. In the intervening
space stand three or four of those rock-columns, several hundred feet high, with their tops
nearly on a level with the Bastei. A wooden bridge has been made across from one to the other,
over which the traveller passes, looking on the trees and rocks far below him, to the mountain,
where a steep zigzag path takes him to the Elbe below.

We crossed the Elbe for the fourth time at the foot of the Bastei, and walked along its right
bank towards Königstein. The injury caused by the inundation was everywhere apparent. The receding
flood had left a deposit of sand, in many places several feet deep on the rich meadows, so
that the labor of years will be requisite to remove it and restore the land to an arable condition.
Even the farm-houses on the hillside, some distance from the river, had been reached, and the
long grass hung in the highest branches of the fruit trees. The people wore at work trying
to repair their injuries, but it will fall heavily upon the poorer classes.

The mountain of Königstein is twelve hundred feet high. A precipice, varying from one to three
hundred feet in height, runs entirely around the summit, which is flat, and a mile and a half
in circumference. This has been turned into a fortress, whose natural advantages make it entirely
impregnable. During the Thirty Years' War and the late war with Napoleon, it was the only place
in Saxony unoccupied by the enemy. Hence is it used as a depository for the archives and royal
treasures, in times of danger. By giving up our passports at the door, we received permission
to enter; the officer called a guide to take us around the battlements. There is quite a little
village on the summit, with gardens, fields, and a wood of considerable size. The only entrance
is by a road cut through the rock, which is strongly guarded. A well seven hundred feet deep
supplies the fortress with water, and there are storehouses sufficient to hold supplies for
many years. The view from the ramparts is glorious--it takes in the whole of the Saxon Highlands,
as far as the lofty Schneeberg in Bohemia. On the other side the eye follows the windings of
the Elbe, as far as the spires of Dresden. Lilienstein, a mountain of exactly similar formation,
but somewhat higher, stands directly opposite. On walking around, the guide pointed out a little
square tower standing on the brink of a precipice, with a ledge, about two feet wide, running
around it, just below the windows. He said during the reign of Augustus the Strong, a baron
attached to his court, rose in his sleep after a night of revelry, and stepping out the window,
stretched himself at full length along the ledge. A guard fortunately observed his situation
and informed Augustus of it, who had him bound and secured with cords, and then awakened by
music. It was a good lesson, and one which no doubt sobered him for the future.

Passing through the little city of Königstein, we walked on to Schandau, the capital of the
Saxon Switzerland, situated on the left bank. It had sustained great damage from the flood,
the whole place having been literally under water. Here we turned up a narrow valley which
led to the Kuhstall, some eight miles distant. The sides, as usual, were of steep gray rock,
but wide enough apart to give room to some lovely meadows, with here and there a rustic cottage.
The mountain maidens, in their bright red dresses, with a fanciful scarf bound around the head,
made a romantic addition to the scene. There were some quiet secluded nooks, where the light
of day stole in dimly through the thick foliage above and the wild stream rushed less boisterously
over the rocks. We sat down to rest in one of these cool retreats, and made the glen ring with
a cheer for America. The echoes repeated the name as if they had heard it for the first time,
and I gave them a strict injunction to give it back to the next countryman who should pass by.

As we advanced further into the hills the way became darker and wilder. We heard the sound
of falling water in a little dell on one side, and going nearer, saw a picturesque fall of
about fifteen feet. Great masses of black rock were piled together, over which the mountain-stream
fell in a snowy sheet. The pines above and around grew so thick and close, that not a sunbeam
could enter, and a kind of mysterious twilight pervaded the spot. In Greece it would have been
chosen for an oracle. I have seen, somewhere, a picture of the Spirit of Poetry, sitting beside
just such a cataract, and truly the nymph could choose no more appropriate dwelling. But alas
for sentiment! while we were admiring its picturesque beauty, we did not notice a man who came
from a hut near by and went up behind the rocks. All at once there was a roar of water, and
a real torrent came pouring down. I looked up, and lo! there he stood, with a gate in his hand
which had held the water imprisoned, looking down at us to observe the effect, I motioned him
to shut it up again, and he ran down to us, lest he should lose his fee for the "sight!"

Our road now left the valley and ascended through a forest to the Kuhstall, which we came upon
at once. It is a remarkable natural arch, through a rocky wall or rampart, one hundred and
fifty feet thick. Going through, we came at the other end to the edge of a very deep precipice,
while the rock towered precipitously far above. Below lay a deep circular valley, two miles
in diameter, and surrounded on every side by ranges of crags, such as we saw on the Bastei.
It was entirely covered with a pine forest, and there only appeared to be two or three narrow
defiles which gave it a communication with the world. The top of the Kuhstall can be reached
by a path which runs up through a split in the rock, directly to the summit. It is just wide
enough for one person to squeeze himself through; pieces of wood have been fastened in as steps,
and the rocks in many places close completely above. The place derives its name from having
been used by the mountaineers as a hiding-place for their cattle in time of war.

Next morning we descended by another crevice in the rock to the lonely valley, which we crossed,
and climbed the Little Winterberg on the opposite side. There is a wide and rugged view from
a little tower on a precipitous rock near the summit, erected to commemorate the escape of
Prince Augustus of Saxony, who, being pursued by a mad stag, rescued himself on the very brink,
by a lucky blow. Among the many wild valleys that lay between the hills, we saw scarcely one
without the peculiar rocky formation which gives to Saxon scenery its most interesting character.
They resemble the remains of some mighty work of art, rather than one of the thousand varied
forms in which Nature delights to clothe herself.

The Great Winterberg, which is reached by another hour's walk along an elevated ridge, is the
highest of the mountains, celebrated for the grand view from its summit. We found the handsome
Swiss hotel recently built there, full of tourists who had come to enjoy the scone, but the
morning clouds hid every thing. We ascended the tower, and looking between them as they rolled
by, caught glimpses of the broad landscape below. The Giant's Mountains in Silesia were hidden
by the mist, but sometimes when the wind freshened, we could see beyond the Elbe into Bohemian
Switzerland, where the long Schneeberg rose conspicuous above the smaller mountains. Leaving
the other travellers to wait at their leisure for clearer weather, we set off for the Prebisehthor,
in company with two or three students from the Polytechnic School in Dresden. An hour's walk
over high hills, whose forest clothing had been swept off by fire a few years before, brought
us to it.

The Prebisehthor is a natural arch, ninety feet high, in a wall of rock which projects at right
angles from the precipitous side of the mountain. A narrow path leads over the top of the arch
to the end of the rock, where, protected by a railing, the traveller seems to hang in the air.
The valley is far below him--mountains rise up on either side--and only the narrow bridge connects
him with the earth. We descended by a wooden staircase to the bottom of the arch, near which
a rustic inn is built against the rock, and thence into the valley below, which we followed
through rude lonely scenery, to Hirnischkretschen (!) on the Elbe.

Crossing the river again for the sixth and last time, we followed the right bank to Neidergrund,
the first Austrian village. Here our passports were visèd for Prague, and we were allowed to
proceed without any examination of baggage. I noticed a manifest change in our fellow travelers
the moment we crossed the border. They appeared anxious and careful; if we happened to speak
of the state of the country, they always looked around to see if anybody was near, and if we
even passed a workman on the road, quickly changed to some other subject. They spoke much of
the jealous strictness of the government, and from what I heard from Austrians themselves,
there may have been ground for their cautiousness.

We walked seven or eight miles along the bank of the Elbe, to Tetschen, there left our companions
and took the road to Teplitz. The scenery was very picturesque; it must be delightful to float
down the swift current in a boat, as we saw several merry companies do. The river is just small
enough and the banks near enough together, to render such a mode of travelling delightful,
and the strength of the current would carry one to Dresden in a day.

I was pleasantly disappointed on entering Bohemia. Instead of a dull, uninteresting country,
as I expected, it is a land full of the most lovely scenery. There is every thing which can
gratify the eye--high blue mountains, valleys of the sweetest pastoral look and romantic old
ruins. The very name of Bohemia is associated with wild and wonderful legends, of the rude
barbaric ages. Even the chivalric tales of the feudal times of Germany grow tame beside these
earlier and darker histories. The fallen fortresses of the Rhine, or the robber-castles of
the Odenwald had not for me so exciting an interest as the shapeless ruins cumbering these
lonely mountains. The civilized Saxon race was left behind; I saw around me the features and
heard the language of one of those rude Sclavonic tribes, whose original home was on the vast
steppes of Central Asia. I have rarely enjoyed traveling more than our first two days' journey
towards Prague. The range of the Erzgebirge ran along on our right; the snow still lay in patches
upon it, but the valleys between, with their little clusters of white cottages, were green
and beautiful. About six miles before reaching Teplitz, we passed Kulm, the great battle-field,
which in a measure decided the fate of Napoleon. He sent Vandamme with 40,000 men to attack
the allies before they could unite their forces, and thus effect their complete destruction.
Only the almost despairing bravery of the Russian guards under Ostermann, who held him in check
till the allied troops united, prevented Napoleon's design. At the junction of the roads, where
the fighting was hottest, the Austrians have erected a monument to one of their generals. Not
far from it is that of Prussia, simple and tasteful. A woody hill near, with the little village
of Kulm at its foot, was the station occupied by Vandamme at the commencement of the battle.
There is now a beautiful chapel on its summit, which can be seen far and wide. A little distance
further, the Emperor of Russia has erected a third monument to the memory of the Russians who
fell. Four lions rest on the base of the pedestal, and on the top of the shaft, forty-five
feet high, Victory is represented as engraving the date, "Aug. 30, 1813," on a shield. The
dark, pine-covered mountains on the right, overlook the whole field and the valley of Teplitz;
Napoleon rode along their crests several days after the battle, to witness the scene of his defeat.

Teplitz lies in a lovely valley, several miles wide, bounded by the Bohemian mountains on one
side, and the Erzgebirge on the other. One straggling peak near is crowned with a picturesque
ruin, at whose foot the spacious bath-buildings lie half hidden in foliage. As we went down
the principal street, I noticed nearly every house was a hotel; we learned afterwards that
in summer the usual average of visitors is five thousand. The waters resemble those of the
celebrated Carlsbad; they are warm and particularly efficacious in rheumatism and diseases
of like character. After leaving Teplitz, the road turned to the east, towards a lofty mountain,
which we had seen the morning before. The peasants as they passed by, saluted us with "Christ
greet you!"

We stopped for the night at the foot of the peak called the Milleschauer, and must have ascended
nearly 2,000 feet, for we had a wide view the next morning, although the mists and clouds hid
the half of it. The weather being so unfavorable, we concluded not to ascend, and taking leave
of the Jena student who came there for that purpose, descended through green fields and orchards
snowy with blossoms, to Lobositz, on the Elbe. Here we reached the plains again, where every
thing wore the luxuriance of summer; it was a pleasant change from the dark and rough scenery
we left. The road passed through Theresienstadt, the fortress of Northern Bohemia. The little
city is surrounded by a double wall and moat, which can be filled with water, rendering it
almost impossible to be taken. In the morning we were ferried over the Moldau, and after journeying
nearly all day across barren, elevated plains, saw late in the afternoon the sixty-seven spires
of Prague below us! The dark clouds which hung over the hills, gave us little time to look
upon the singular scene; and we were soon comfortably settled in the half-barbaric, half-Asiatic
city, with a pleasant prospect of seeing its wonders on the morrow.

CHAPTER XX.

SCENES IN PRAGUE.

Prague.--I feel as if out of the world, in this strange, fantastic, yet beautiful old city.
We have been rambling all morning through its winding streets, stopping sometimes at a church
to see the dusty tombs and shrines, or to hear the fine music which accompanies the morning
mass. I have seen no city yet that so forcibly reminds one of the past, and makes him forget
everything but the associations connected with the scenes around him. The language adds to
the illusion. Three-fourths of the people in the streets speak Bohemian and many of the signs
are written in the same tongue, which is not at all like German. The palace of the Bohemian
kings still looks down on the city from the western heights, and their tombs stand in the Cathedral
of the holy Johannes. When one has climbed up the stone steps lending to the fortress, there
is a glorious prospect before him. Prague, with its spires and towers, lies in the valley below,
through which curves the Moldau with its green islands, disappearing among the hills which
enclose the city on every side. The fantastic Byzantine architecture of many of the churches
and towers, gives the city a peculiar oriental appearance; it seems to have been transported
from the hills of Syria. Its streets are full of palaces, fallen and dwelt in now by the poorer
classes. Its famous University, which once boasted forty thousand students, has long since
ceased to exist. In a word, it is, like Venice, a fallen city; though as in Venice, the improving
spirit of the age is beginning to give it a little life, and to send a quicker stream through
its narrow and winding arteries. The railroad, which, joining that to Brünn, shall bring it
in connection with Vienna, will be finished this year; in anticipation of the increased business
which will arise from this, speculators are building enormous hotels in the suburbs and tearing
down the old buildings to give place to more splendid edifices. These operations, and the chain
bridge which spans the Moldau towards the southern end of the city, are the only things which
look modern--every thing else is old, strange and solemn.

Having found out first a few of the locations, we hunted our way with difficulty through its
labyrinths, seeking out every place of note or interest. Reaching the bridge at last, we concluded
to cross over and ascend to the Hradschin--the palace of the Bohemian kings. The bridge was
commenced in 1357, and was one hundred and fifty years in building. That was the way the old
Germans did their work, and they made a structure which will last a thousand years longer.
Every pier is surmounted with groups of saints and martyrs, all so worn and time-beaten, that
there is little left of their beauty, if they ever had any. The most important of them, at
least to Bohemians, is that of the holy "Johannes of Nepomuck," now considered as the patron-saint
of the land. He was a priest many centuries ago, whom one of the kings threw from the bridge
into the Moldau, because he refused to reveal to him what the queen confessed. The legend says
the body swam for some time on the river, with five stars around its head. The 16th of May,
the day before we arrived, was that set apart for his particular honor; the statue on the bridge
was covered with an arch of green boughs and flowers, and the shrine lighted with burning tapers.
A railing was erected around it, near which numbers of the believers were kneeling, and a priest
stood in the inside. The bridge was covered with passers-by, who all took their hats off till
they had passed. Had it been a place of public worship, the act would have been natural and
appropriate, but to uncover before a statue seemed to us too much like idolatry, and we ventured
over without doing it. A few years ago it might have been dangerous, but now we only met with
scowling looks. There are many such shrines and statues through the city, and I noticed that
the people always took off their hats and crossed themselves in passing. On the hill above
the western end of the city, stands a chapel on the spot where the Bavarians put an end to
Protestantism in Bohemia by the sword, and the deluded peasantry of the land make pilgrimages
to this spot, as if it were rendered holy by an act over which Religion weeps!

Ascending the broad flight of steps to the Hradschin, I paused a moment to look at the scene
below. A slight blue haze hung over the clustering towers, and the city looked dim through
it, like a city seen in a dream. It was well that it should so appear, for not less dim and
misty are the memories that haunt its walls. There was no need of a magician's wand to bid
that light cloud shadow forth the forms of other times. They came uncalled for, even by fancy.
Far, far back in the past, I saw the warrior-princess who founded the kingly city--the renowned
Libussa, whose prowess and talent inspired the women of Bohemia to rise at her death and storm
the land that their sex might rule where it obeyed before. On the mountain opposite once stood
the palace of the bloody Wlaska, who reigned with her Amazon band for seven years over half
Bohemia. Those streets below had echoed with the fiery words of Huss, and the castle of his
follower--the blind Ziska, who met and defeated the armies of the German Empire--moulders on
the mountain above. Many a year of war and tempest has passed over the scene. The hills around
have borne the armies of Wallenstein and Frederic the Great; the war-cry of Bavaria, Sweden
and Poland has echoed in the valley, and the red glare of the midnight cannon or the flames
of burning palaces have often gleamed along the "blood-dyed waters" of the Moldau!

But this was a day-dream. The throng of people coming up the steps waked me out of it. We turned
and followed them through several spacious courts, till we arrived at the Cathedral, which
is magnificent in the extreme. The dark Gothic pillars, whose arches unite high above, are
surrounded with gilded monuments and shrines, and the side chapels are rich in elaborate decorations.
A priest was speaking from a pulpit in the centre, in the Bohemian language, which not being
the most intelligible, I went to the other end to see the shrine of the holy Johannes of Nepomuck.
It stands at the end of one of the side aisles and is composed of a mass of gorgeous silver
ornaments. At a little distance, on each side, hang four massive lamps of silver, constantly
burning. The pyramid of statues, of the same precious metal, has at each corner a richly carved
urn, three feet high, with a crimson lamp burning at the top. Above, four silver angels, the
size of life, are suspended in the air, holding up the corners of a splendid drapery of crimson
and gold. If these figures were melted down and distributed among the poor and miserable people
who inhabit Bohemia, they would then be angels indeed, bringing happiness and blessing to many
a ruined home- altar. In the same chapel is the splendid burial-place of the Bohemian kings,
of gilded marble and alabaster. Numberless tombs, covered with elaborate ornamental work, fill
the edifice. It gives one a singular feeling to stand at one end and look down the lofty hall,
dim with incense smoke and dark with the weight of many centuries.

On the way down again, we stepped into the St. Nicholas Church, which was built by the Jesuits.
The interior has a rich effect, being all of brown and gold. The massive pillars are made to
resemble reddish-brown marble, with gilded capitals, and the statues at the base are profusely
ornamented in the same style. The music chained me there a long time. There was a grand organ,
assisted by a full orchestra and large choir of singers. It was placed above, and at every
sound of the priest's bell, the flourish of trumpets and deep roll of the drums filled the
dome with a burst of quivering sound, while the giant pipes of the organ breathed out their
full harmony and the very air shook under the peal. It was like a triumphal strain; the soul
became filled with thoughts of power and glory--every sense was changed into one dim, indistinct
emotion of rapture, which held the spirit as if spell-bound. I could almost forgive the Jesuits
the superstition and bigotry they have planted in the minds of men, for the indescribable enjoyment
that music gave. When it ceased, we went out to the world again, and the recollection of it
seems now like a dream--but a dream whose influence will last longer than many a more palpable
reality.

Not far from this place is the palace of Wallenstein, in the same condition as when he inhabited
it, and still in the possession of his descendants. It is a plain, large building, having beautiful
gardens attached to it, which are open to the public. We went through the courtyard, threaded
a passage with a roof of rough stalactitic rock, and entered the garden where a revolving fountain
was casting up its glittering arches. Among the flowers at the other end of the garden there
is a remarkable fountain. It is but a single jet of water which rises from the middle of a
broad basin of woven wire, but by some means it sustains a hollow gilded ball, sometimes for
many minutes at a time. When the ball drops, the sloping sides of the basin convey it directly
to the fountain again, and it is carried up to dance a while longer on the top of the jet.
I watched it once, thus supported on the water, for full fifteen minutes.

There is another part of Prague which is not less interesting, though much less poetical--the
Jews' City. In our rambles we got into it before we were aware, but hurried immediately out
of it again, perfectly satisfied with one visit. We came first into a dark, narrow street,
whose sides were lined with booths of old clothes and second-hand articles. A sharp featured
old woman thrust a coat before my face, exclaiming, "Herr, buy a fine coat!" Instantly a man
assailed me on the other side, "Here are vests! pantaloons! shirts!" I broke loose from them
and ran on, but it only became worse. One seized me by the arm, crying, "Lieber Herr, buy some
stockings!" and another grasped my coat: "Hats, Herr! hats! buy something, or sell me something!"
I rushed desperately on, shouting "no! no!" with all my might, and finally got safe through.
My friend having escaped their clutches also, we hunted the way to the old Jewish cemetery.
This stands in the middle of the city, and has not been used for a hundred years. We could
find no entrance, but by climbing upon the ruins of an old house near, I could look over the
wall. A cold shudder crept over me, to think that warm, joyous Life, as I then felt it, should
grow chill and pass back to clay in such a foul charnel-house. Large mounds of earth, covered
with black, decaying grave-stones, which were almost hidden under the weeds and rank grass,
filled the inclosure. A few dark, crooked alder-trees grew among the crumbling tombs, and gave
the scene an air of gloom and desolation, almost fearful. The dust of many a generation lies
under these mouldering stones; they now scarcely occupy a thought in the minds of the living;
and yet the present race toils and seeks for wealth alone, that it may pass away and leave
nothing behind--not even a memory for that which will follow it!

CHAPTER XXI.

JOURNEY THROUGH EASTERN BOHEMIA AND MORAVIA TO THE DANUBE.

Our road the first two days after leaving Prague led across broad, elevated plains, across
which a cold wind came direct from the summits of the Riesengebirge, far to our left. Were
it not for the pleasant view we had of the rich valley of the Upper Elbe, which afforded a
delightful relief to the monotony of the hills around us, the journey would have been exceedingly
tiresome. The snow still glistened on the distant mountains; but when the sun shone out, the
broad valley below, clad in the luxuriance of summer, and extending for at least fifty miles
with its woods, meadows and white villages, looked like a real Paradise. The long ridges over
which we travelled extend for nearly a hundred and fifty miles--from the Elbe almost to the
Danube. The soil is not fertile, the inhabitants are exceedingly poor, and from our own experience,
the climate must be unhealthy. In winter the country is exposed to the full sweep of the northern
winds, and in summer the sun shines down on it with unbroken force. There are few streams running
through it, and the highest part, which divides the waters of the Baltic from those of the
Black Sea is filled for a long distance with marshes and standing pools, whose exhalations
must inevitably subject the inhabitants to disease. This was perceptible in their sallow, sickly
countenances; many of the women are afflicted with the goitre, or swelling of the throat; I
noticed that towards evening they always carefully muffled up their faces. According to their
own statements, the people suffer much from the cold in winter, as the few forests the country
affords are in possession of the noblemen to whom the land belongs, and they are not willing
to let them be cut down. The dominions of these petty despots are marked along the road with
as much precision as the boundaries of an empire; we saw sometimes their stalely castles at
a distance, forming quite a contrast to the poor scattering villages of the peasants.

At Kollin, the road, which had been running eastward in the direction of Olmutz, turned to
the south, and we took leave of the Elbe, after tracing back his course from Magdeburg nearly
to his home in the mountains of Silesia. The country was barren and monotonous, but a bright
sunshine made it look somewhat cheerful. We passed, every few paces, some shrine or statue
by the roadside. This had struck me, immediately on crossing the border, in the Saxon Switzerland--it
seemed as if the boundary of Saxony was that of Protestantism. But here in the heart of Bohemia,
the extent to which this image worship is carried, exceeds anything I had imagined. There is
something pleasing as well as poetical in the idea of a shrine by the wayside, where the weary
traveller can rest, and raise his heart in thankfulness to the Power that protects him; it
was no doubt a pious spirit that placed them there; but the people appear to pay the reverence
to the picture which they should give to its spiritual image, and the pictures themselves are
so shocking and ghastly, they seem better calculated to excite horror than reverence. It was
really repulsive to look on images of the Saviour covered with blood, and generally with swords
sticking in different parts of the body. The Almighty is represented as an old man, wearing
a Bishop's mitre, and the image of the Virgin is always drest in a gay silk robe, with beads
and other ornaments. From the miserable painting, the faces often had an expression that would
have been exceedingly ludicrous, if the shock given to our feelings of reverence were not predominant.
The poor, degraded peasants always uncovered or crossed themselves when passing by these shrines,
but it appeared to be rather the effect of habit than any good impulse, for the Bohemians are
noted all over Germany for their dishonesty; we learned by experience they deserve it. It is
not to be wondered at either; for a people so poor and miserable and oppressed will soon learn
to take advantage of all who appear better off than themselves. They had one custom which was
touching and beautiful. At the sound of the church bell, as it rung the morning, noon and evening
chimes, every one uncovered, and repeated to himself a prayer. Often, as we rested at noon
on a bank by the roadside, that voice spoke out from the house of worship and every one heeded
its tone. Would that to this innate spirit of reverence were added the light of Knowledge,
which a tyrannical government denies them!

The third night of our journey we stopped at the little village of Stecken, and the next morning,
after three hours' walk over the ridgy heights, reached the old Moravian city of Iglau, built
on a hill. It happened to be Corpus Christi day, and the peasants of the neighborhood were
hastening there in their gayest dresses. The young women wore a crimson scarf around the head,
with long fringed and embroidered ends hanging over the shoulders, or falling in one smooth
fold from the back of the head. They were attired in black velvet vests, with full white sleeves
and skirts of some gay color, which were short enough to show to advantage their red stockings
and polished shoe-buckles. Many of them were not deficient in personal beauty--there was a
gipsy-like wildness in their eyes, that combined with their rich hair and graceful costume,
reminded me of the Italian maidens. The towns too, with their open squares and arched passages,
have quite a southern look; but the damp, gloomy weather was enough to dispel any illusion
of this kind.

In the neighborhood of Iglau, and, in fact, through the whole of Bohemia, we saw some of the
strangest teams that could well be imagined. I thought the Frankfort milkwomen with their donkeys
and hearse-like carts, were comical objects enough, but they bear no comparison with these
Bohemian turn-outs. Dogs--for economy's sake, perhaps--generally supply the place of oxen or
horses, and it is no uncommon thing to see three large mastiffs abreast, harnessed to a country-cart.
A donkey and a cow together, are sometimes met with, and one man, going to the festival at
Iglau, had his wife and children in a little wagon, drawn by a dog and a donkey. These two,
however, did not work well together; the dog would bite his lazy companion, and the man's time
was constantly employed in whipping him off the donkey, and in whipping the donkey away from
the side of the road. Once I saw a wagon drawn by a dog, with a woman pushing behind, while
a man, doubtless her lord and master, sat comfortably within, smoking his pipe with the greatest
complacency! The very climax of all was a woman and a dog harnessed together, taking a load
of country produce to market! I hope, for the honor of the country, it was not emblematic of
woman's condition there. But as we saw hundreds of them breaking stone along the road, and
occupied at other laborious and not less menial labor, there is too much reason to fear that
it is so.

As we approached Iglau, we heard cannon firing; the crowd increased, and following the road,
we came to an open square, where a large number were already assembled; shrines were erected
around it, hung with pictures and pine boughs, and a long procession of children was passing
down the side as we entered. We went towards the middle, where Neptune and his Tritons poured
the water from their urns into two fountains, and stopped to observe the scene. The procession
came on, headed by a large body of priests, in white robes, with banners and crosses. They
stopped before the principal shrine, in front of the Rathhaus, and began a solemn religious
ceremony. The whole crowd of not less than ten thousand persons, stood silent and uncovered,
and the deep voice of the officiating priest was heard over the whole square. At times the
multitude sang responses, and I could mark the sound, swelling and rolling up like a mighty
wave, till it broke and slowly sank down again to the deepest stillness. The effect was marred
by the rough voice of the officers commanding the soldiery, and the volleys of musquetry which
were occasionally discharged. It degraded the solemnity of the pageant to the level of a military
parade.

In the afternoon we were overtaken by a travelling handwerker, on his way to Vienna, who joined
company with us. We walked several miles together, talking on various matters, without his
having the least suspicion we were not Germans. He had been at Trieste, and at length began
speaking of the great beauty of the American vessels there. "Yes," said I, "our vessels are
admired all over the world." He stared at me without comprehending;--"your vessels?" "Our country's,"
I replied; "we are Americans!" I can see still his look of incredulous astonishment and hear
the amazed tone with which he cried: "You Americans--it is impossible!" We convinced him nevertheless,
to his great joy, for all through Germany there is a curiosity to see our countrymen and a
kindly feeling towards them. "I shall write down in my book," said he, "so that I shall never
forget it, that I once travelled with two Americans!" We stopped together for the night at
the only inn in a large, beggarly village, where we obtained a frugal supper with difficulty,
for a regiment of Polish lancers was quartered there for the night, and the pretty Kellnerin
was so busy in waiting on the officers that she had no eye for wandering journeymen, as she
took us to be. She even told us the beds were all occupied and we must sleep on the floor.
Just then the landlord came by. "Is it possible, Herr Landlord," asked our new companion, "that
there is no bed here for us? Have the goodness to look again, for we are not in the habit of
sleeping on the floor, like dogs!" This speech had its effect, for the Kellnerin was commanded
to find us beds. She came back unwillingly after a time and reported that two, only, were vacant.
As a German bed is only a yard wide, we pushed these two together, but they were still too
small for three persons, and I had a severe cold in the morning, from sleeping crouched up
against the damp wall.

The next day we passed the dividing ridge which separates the waters of the Elbe from the Danube,
and in the evening arrived at Znaim, the capital of Moravia. It is built on a steep hill looking
down on the valley of the Thaya, whose waters mingle with the Danube near Pressburg. The old
castle on the height near, was formerly the residence of the Moravian monarchs, and traces
of the ancient walls and battlements of the city are still to be seen. The handwerker took
us to the inn frequented by his craft--the leather-curriers--and we conversed together till
bed-time. While telling me of the oppressive laws of Austria, the degrading vassalage of the
peasants and the horrors of the conscription system, he paused as in deep thought, and looking
at me with a suppressed sigh, said: "Is it not true, America is free?" I told him of our country
and her institutions, adding that though we were not yet as free as we hoped and wished to
be, we enjoyed far more liberty than any country in the world. "Ah!" said he, "it is hard to
leave one's fatherland oppressed as it is, but I wish I could go to America!"

We left next morning at eight o'clock, after having done full justice to the beds of the "Golden
Stag," and taken leave of Florian Francke, the honest and hearty old landlord. Znaim appears
to great advantage from the Vienna road; the wind which blew with fury against our backs, would
not permit us to look long at it, but pushed us on towards the Austrian border. In the course
of three hours we were obliged to stop at a little village; it blew a perfect hurricane and
the rain began to soak through our garments. Here we stayed three hours among the wagoners
who stopped on account of the weather. One miserable, drunken wretch, whom one would not wish
to look at more than once, distinguished himself by insulting those around him, and devouring
like a beast, large quantities of food. When the reckoning was given him, he declared he had
already paid, and the waiter denying it, he said, "Stop, I will show you something!" pulled
out his passport and pointed to the name--"Baron von Reitzenstein." It availed nothing; he
had fallen so low that his title inspired no respect, and when we left the inn they were still
endeavoring to get their money and threatening him with a summary proceeding if the demand
was not complied with.

Next morning the sky was clear and a glorious day opened before us. The country became more
beautiful as we approached the Danube; the hills were covered with vineyards, just in the tender
green of their first leaves, and the rich valleys lay in Sabbath stillness in the warm sunshine.
Sometimes from an eminence we could see far and wide over the garden-like slopes, where little
white villages shone among the blossoming fruit-trees. A chain of blue hills rose in front,
which I knew almost instinctively stood by the Danube; when we climbed to the last height and
began to descend to the valley, where the river was still hidden by luxuriant groves, I saw
far to the southwest, a range of faint, silvery summits, rising through the dim ether like
an airy vision. There was no mistaking those snowy mountains. My heart bounded with a sudden
thrill of rapturous excitement at this first view of the Alps! They were at a great distance,
and their outline was almost blended with the blue drapery of air which clothed them. I gazed
till my vision became dim and I could no longer trace their airy lines. They called up images
blended with the grandest events in the world's history. I thought of the glorious spirits
who have looked upon them and trodden their rugged sides--of the storms in which they veil
their countenances, and the avalanches they hurl thundering to the valleys--of the voices of
great deeds, which have echoed from their crags over the wide earth--and of the ages which
have broken, like the waves of a mighty sea, upon their everlasting summits!

As we descended, the hills and forests shut out this sublime vision, and I looked to the wood-clothed
mountains opposite and tried to catch a glimpse of the current that rolled at their feet. We
here entered upon a rich plain, about ten miles in diameter, which lay between a backward sweep
of the hills and a curve of the Danube. It was covered with the richest grain; every thing
wore the luxuriance of summer, and we seemed to have changed seasons since leaving the dreary
hills of Bohemia. Continuing over the plain, we had on our left the fields of Wagram and Essling,
the scene of two of Napoleon's blood-bought victories. The outposts of the Carpathians skirted
the horizon--that great mountain range which stretches through Hungary to the borders of Russia.

At length the road came to the river's side, and we crossed on wooden bridges over two or three
arms of the Danube, all of which together were little wider than the Schuylkill at Philadelphia.
When we crossed the last bridge, we came to a kind of island covered with groves of the silver
ash. Crowds of people filled the cool walks; booths of refreshment stood by the roadside, and
music was everywhere heard. The road finally terminated in a circle, where beautiful alleys
radiated into the groves; from the opposite side a broad street lined with stately buildings
extended into the heart of the city, and through this avenue, filled with crowds of carriages
and people on their way to those delightful walks, we entered Vienna!

CHAPTER XXII.

VIENNA.

May 31.--I have at last seen the thousand wonders of this great capital--this German Paris--this
connecting link between the civilization of Europe and the barbaric magnificence of the East.
It looks familiar to be in a city again, whose streets are thronged with people, and resound
with the din and bustle of business. It reminds me of the never-ending crowds of London, or
the life and tumult of our scarcely less active New York. Although the end may be sordid for
which so many are laboring, yet the very sight of so much activity is gratifying. It is peculiarly
so to an American. After residing in a foreign land for some time, the peculiarities of our
nation are more easily noticed; I find in my countrymen abroad a vein of restless energy--a
love for exciting action--which to many of our good German friends is perfectly incomprehensible.
It might have been this which gave at once a favorable impression of Vienna.

The morning of our arrival we sallied out from our lodgings in the Leopoldstadt, to explore
the world before us. Entering the broad Praterstrasse, we passed down to the little arm of
the Danube, which separates this part of the new city from the old. A row of magnificent coffee-houses
occupy the bank, and numbers of persons were taking their breakfasts in the shady porticoes.
The Ferdinand's Bridge, which crosses the stream, was filled with people; in the motley crowd
we saw the dark-eyed Greek, and Turks in their turbans and flowing robes. Little brown Hungarian
boys were going around, selling bunches of lilies, and Italians with baskets of oranges stood
by the side-walk. The throng became greater as we penetrated into the old city. The streets
were filled with carts and carriages, and as there are no side-pavements, it required constant
attention to keep out of their way. Splendid shops, fitted up with great taste, occupied the
whole of the lower stories, and goods of all kinds hung beneath the canvass awnings in front
of them. Almost every store or shop was dedicated to some particular person or place, which
was represented on a large panel by the door. The number of these paintings added much to the
splendor of the scene; I was gratified to find, among the images of kings and dukes, one dedicated
"to the American," with an Indian chief in full costume.

The Altstadt, or old city, which contains about sixty thousand inhabitants, is completely separated
from the suburbs, whose population, taking the whole extent within the outer barrier, numbers
nearly half a million. It is situated on a small arm of the Danube, and encompassed by a series
of public promenades, gardens and walks, varying from a quarter to half a mile in length, called
the Glacis. This formerly belonged to the fortifications of the city, but as the suburbs grew
up so rapidly on all sides, it was changed appropriately to a public walk. The city is still
surrounded with a massive wall and a deep wide moat; but since it was taken by Napoleon in
1809, the moat has been changed into a garden, with a beautiful carriage road along the bottom,
around the whole city. It is a beautiful sight, to stand on the summit of the wall and look
over the broad Glacis, with its shady roads branching in every direction, and filled with inexhaustible
streams of people. The Vorstaedte, or new cities, stretch in a circle around, beyond this;
all the finest buildings front on the Glacis, among which the splendid Vienna Theatre and the
church of San Carlo Borromeo are conspicuous. The mountains of the Vienna Forest bound the
view, with here and there a stately castle on their woody summits. I was reminded of London
as seen from Regent's Park, and truly this part of Vienna can well compare with it. On penetrating
into the suburbs, the resemblance is at an end. Many of the public thoroughfares are still
unpaved, and in dry weather one is almost choked by the clouds of fine dust. A furious wind
blows from the mountains, sweeping the streets almost constantly and filling the eyes and ears
with it, making the city an unhealthy residence for strangers.

There is no lack of places for pleasure or amusement. Beside the numberless walks of the Glacis,
there are the Imperial Gardens, with their cool shades and flowers and fountains; the Augarten,
laid out and opened to the public by the Emperor Joseph: and the Prater, the largest and most
beautiful of all. It lies on an island formed by the arms of the Danube, and is between two
and three miles square. From the circle at the end of the Praterstrasse, broad carriage-ways
extend through its forests of oak and silver ash, and over its verdant lawns to the principal
stream, which bounds it on the north. These roads are lined with stately horse chesnuts, whose
branches unite and form a dense canopy, completely shutting out the sun. Every afternoon the
beauty and nobility of Vienna whirl through the cool groves in their gay equipages, while the
sidewalks are thronged with pedestrians, and the numberless tables and seats with which every
house of refreshment is surrounded, are filled with merry guests. Here, on Sundays and holidays,
the people repair in thousands. The woods are full of tame deer, which run perfectly free over
the whole Prater. I saw several in one of the lawns, lying down in the grass, with a number
of children playing around or sitting beside them. It is delightful to walk there in the cool
of the evening, when the paths are crowded, and everybody is enjoying the release from the
dusty city. It is this free, social life which renders Vienna so attractive to foreigners and
draws yearly thousands of visitors from all parts of Europe.

St. Stephen's Cathedral, in the centre of the old city, is one of the finest specimens of Gothic
architecture in Germany. Its unrivalled tower, which rises to the height of four hundred and
twenty-eight feet, is visible from every part of Vienna. It is entirely of stone, most elaborately
ornamented, and is supposed to be the strongest in Europe. If the tower was finished, it might
rival any church in Europe in richness and brilliancy of appearance. The inside is solemn and
grand; but the effect is injured by the number of small chapels and shrines. In one of these
rests, the remains of Prince Eugene of Savoy, "der edle Ritter," known in a ballad to every
man, woman and child in Germany.

The Belvidere Gallery fills thirty-five halls, and contains three thousand pictures! It is
absolutely bewildering to walk through such vast collections; you can do no more than glance
at each painting, and hurry by face after face, and figure after figure, on which you would
willingly gaze for hours and inhale the atmosphere of beauty that surrounds them. Then after
you leave, the brain is filled with their forms--radiant spirit-faces look upon you, and you
see constantly, in fancy, the calm brow of a Madonna, the sweet young face of a child, or the
blending of divine with mortal beauty in an angel's countenance. I endeavor, if possible, always
to make several visits--to study those pictures which cling first to the memory, and pass over
those which make little or no impression. It is better to have a few images fresh and enduring,
than a confused and indistinct memory of many.

From the number of Madonnas in every European gallery, it would almost seem that the old artists
painted nothing else. The subject is one which requires the highest genius to do it justice,
and it is therefore unpleasant to see so many still, inexpressive faces of the virgin and child,
particularly by the Dutch artists, who clothe their figures sometimes in the stiff costume
of their own time. Raphael and Murillo appear to me to be almost the only painters who have
expressed what, perhaps, was above the power of other masters--the combined love and reverence
of the mother, and the divine expression in the face of the child, prophetic of his mission
and godlike power.

There were many glorious old paintings in the second story, which is entirely taken up with
pictures; two or three of the halls were devoted to selected works from modern artists. Two
of these I would give every thing I have to possess. One of them is a winter scene, representing
the portico of an old Gothic church. At the base of one of the pillars a woman is seated in
the snow, half-benumbed, clasping an infant to her breast, while immediately in front stands
a boy of perhaps seven or eight years, his little hands folded in prayer, while the chill wind
tosses the long curls from his forehead. There is something so pure and holy in the expression
of his childish countenance, so much feeling in the lip and sorrowful eye, that it moves one
almost to tears to look upon it. I turned back half a dozen times from the other pictures to
view it again, and blessed the artist in my heart for the lesson he gave. The other is by a
young Italian painter, whose name I have forgotten, but who, if he never painted anything else,
is worthy a high place among the artists of his country. It represents some scene from the
history of Venice. On an open piazza, a noble prisoner, wasted and pale from long confinement,
has just had an interview with his children. He reaches his arm toward them as if for the last
time, while a savage keeper drags him away. A lovely little girl kneels at the feet of the
Doge, but there is no compassion in his stern features, and it is easy to see that her father
is doomed.

The Lower Belvidere, separated from the Upper by a large garden, laid out in the style of that
at Versailles, contains the celebrated Ambraser Sammlung, a collection of armor. In the first
hall I noticed the complete armor of the Emperor Maximilian, for man and horse--the armor of
Charles V., and Prince Moritz of Saxony, while the walls were filled with figures of German
nobles and knights, in the suits they wore in life. There is also the armor of the great "Baver
of Trient," trabant of the Archduke Ferdinand. He was nearly nine feet in stature, and his
spear, though not equal to Satan's, in Paradise Lost, would still make a tree of tolerable
dimensions.

In the second hall we saw weapons taken from the Turkish army who besieged Vienna, with the
horse-tail standards of the Grand Vizier, Kara Mustapha. The most interesting article was the
battle-axe of the unfortunate Montezuma, which was probably given to the Emperor Charles V.,
by Cortez. It is a plain instrument of dark colored stone, about three feet long.

We also visited the Bürgerliche Zeughaus, a collection of arms and weapons, belonging to the
citizens of Vienna. It contains sixteen thousand weapons and suits of armor, including those
plundered from the Turks, when John Sobieski conquered them and relieved Vienna from the siege.
Besides a great number of sabres, lances and horsetails, there is the blood-red banner of the
Grand Vizier, as well as his skull and shroud, which is covered with sentences from the Koran.
On his return to Belgrade, after the defeat at Vienna, the Sultan sent him a bow-string, and
he was accordingly strangled. The Austrians having taken Belgrade some time after, they opened
his grave and carried off his skull and shroud, as well as the bow-string, as relics. Another
large and richly embroidered banner, which hung in a broad sheet from the ceiling, was far
more interesting to me. It had once waved from the vessels of the Knights of Malta, and had,
perhaps, on the prow of the Grand Master's ship, led that romantic band to battle against the
Infidel.

A large number of peasants and common soldiers were admitted to view the armory at the same
time. The grave custode who showed us the curiosities, explaining every thing in phrases known
by heart for years and making the same starts of admiration whenever he came to any thing peculiarly
remarkable, singled us out as the two persons most worthy of attention. Accordingly his remarks
were directed entirely to us, and his humble countrymen might as well have been invisible,
for the notice he took of them. On passing out, we gave him a coin worth about fifteen cents,
which happened to be so much more than the others gave him, that, bowing graciously, he invited
us to write our names in the album for strangers. While we were doing this, a poor handwerker
lingered behind, apparently for the same object, whom he scornfully dismissed, shaking the
fifteen cent piece in his hand, and saying: "The album is not for such as you--it is for noble
gentlemen!"

On our way through the city, we often noticed a house on the southern side of St. Stephen's
Platz, dedicated to "the Iron Stick." In a niche by the window, stood what appeared to be the
limb of a tree, completely filled with nails, which were driven in so thick that no part of
the original wood is visible. We learned afterwards the legend concerning it. The Vienna Forest
is said to have extended, several hundred years ago, to this place. A locksmith's apprentice
was enabled, by the devil's help, to make the iron bars and padlock which confine the limb
in its place; every locksmith's apprentice who came to Vienna after that, drove a nail into
it, till finally there was room for no more. It is a singular legend, and whoever may have
placed the limb there originally, there it has remained for two or three hundred years at least.

We spent two or three hours delightfully one evening in listening to Strauss's band. We went
about sunset to the Odeon, a new building in the Leopoldstadt. It has a refreshment hall nearly
five hundred feet long, with a handsome fresco ceiling and glass doors opening into a garden
walk of the same length. Both the hall and garden were filled with tables, where the people
seated themselves as they came, and conversed sociably over their coffee and wine. The orchestra
was placed in a little ornamental temple in the garden, in front of which I stationed myself,
for I was anxious to see the world's waltz-king, whose magic tones can set the heels of half
Christendom in motion. After the band had finished tuning their instruments, a middle-sized,
handsome man stepped forward with long strides, with a violin in one hand and bow in the other,
and began waving the latter up and down, like a magician summoning his spirits. As if he had
waved the sound out of his bow, the tones leaped forth from the instruments, and guided by
his eye and hand, fell into a merry measure. The accuracy with which every instrument performed
its part, was truly marvellous. He could not have struck the measure or the harmony more certainly
from the keys of his own piano, than from that large band. The sounds struggled forth, so perfect
and distinct, that one almost expected to see them embodied, whirling in wild dance around
him. Sometimes the air was so exquisitely light and bounding, the feet could scarcely keep
on the earth; then it sank into a mournful lament, with a sobbing tremulousness, and died away
in a long-breathed sigh. Strauss seemed to feel the music in every limb. He would wave his
fiddle-bow awhile, then commence playing with desperate energy, moving his whole body to the
measure, till the sweat rolled from his brow. A book was lying on the stand before him, but
he made no use of it. He often glanced around with a kind of half-triumphant smile at the restless
crowd, whose feet could scarcely be restrained from bounding to the magic measure. It was the
horn of Oberon realized. The composition of the music displayed great talent, but its charm
consisted more in the exquisite combination of the different instruments, and the perfect,
the wonderful exactness with which each performed its part--a piece of art of the most elaborate
and refined character.

The company, which consisted of several hundred, appeared to be full of enjoyment. They sat
under the trees in the calm, cool twilight, with the stars twinkling above, and talked and
laughed sociably together between the pauses of the music, or strolled up and down the lighted
alleys. We walked up and down with them, and thought how much we should enjoy such a scene
at home, where the faces around us would be those of friends, and the language our mother tongue!

We went a long way through the suburbs one bright afternoon, to a little cemetery about a mile
from the city, to find the grave of Beethoven. On ringing at the gate a girl admitted us into
the grounds, in which are many monuments of noble families who have vaults there. I passed
up the narrow walk, reading the inscriptions, till I came to the tomb of Franz Clement, a young
composer, who died two or three years ago. On turning again, my eye fell instantly on the word
"BEETHOVEN," in golden letters, on a tombstone of gray marble. A simple gilded lyre decorated
the pedestal, above which was a serpent encircling a butterfly--the emblem of resurrection
to eternal life. Here then, mouldered the remains of that restless spirit, who seemed to have
strayed to earth from another clime, from such a height did he draw his glorious conceptions.
The perfection he sought for here in vain, he has now attained in a world where the soul is
freed from the bars which bind it in this. There were no flowers planted around the tomb by
those who revered his genius; only one wreath, withered and dead, lay among the grass, as if
left long ago by some solitary pilgrim, and a few wild buttercups hung with their bright blossoms
over the slab. It might have been wrong, but I could not resist the temptation to steal one
or two, while the old grave-digger was busy preparing a new tenement. I thought that other
buds would open in a few days, but those I took would be treasured many a year as sacred relics.
A few paces off is the grave of Schubert, the composer, whose beautiful songs are heard all
over Germany.

It would employ one a week to visit all the rich collections of art in Vienna. They are all
open to the public on certain days of the week, and we have been kept constantly in motion,
running from one part of the city to another, in order to arrive at some gallery at the appointed
time. Tickets, which have to be procured often in quite different parts of the city, are necessary
for admittance to many; on applying after much trouble and search, we frequently found we came
at the wrong hour, and must leave without effecting our object. We employed no guide, but preferred
finding every thing ourselves. We made a list every morning, of the collections open during
the day, and employed the rest of the time in visiting the churches and public gardens, or
rambling through the suburbs.

We visited the Imperial Library a day or two ago. The hall is 245 feet long, with a magnificent
dome in the centre, under which stands the statue of Charles V., of Carrara marble, surrounded
by twelve other monarchs of the house of Hapsburg. The walls are of variegated marble, richly
ornamented with gold, and the ceiling and dome are covered with brilliant fresco paintings.
The library numbers 300,000 volumes, and 16,000 manuscripts, which are kept in walnut cases,
gilded and adorned with medallions. The rich and harmonious effect of the whole cannot easily
be imagined. It is exceedingly appropriate that a hall of such splendor, should be used to
hold a library. The pomp of a palace may seem hollow and vain, for it is but the dwelling of
a man; but no building can be too magnificent for the hundreds of great and immortal spirits
to dwell in, who have visited earth during thirty centuries.

Among other curiosities preserved in the collection, we were shown a brass plate, containing
one of the records of the Roman Senate, made 180 years before Christ, Greek manuscripts of
the fifth and sixth centuries, and a volume of Psalms, printed on parchment, in the year 1457,
by Faust and Schaeffer, the inventors of printing. There were also Mexican manuscripts, presented
by Cortez; the prayer-book of Hildegard, wife of Charlemagne, in letters of gold; the signature
of San Carlo Borromeo, and a Greek testament of the thirteenth century, which had been used
by Erasmus in making his translation and contains notes in his own hand. The most interesting
article was the "Jerusalem Delivered" of Tasso, in the poet's own hand, with his erasions and
corrections.

We also visited the Cabinet of Natural History, which is open twice a week "to all respectably
dressed persons," as the notice at the door says. But Heaven forbid that I should attempt to
describe what we saw there. The Mineral Cabinet had a greater interest to me, inasmuch as it
called up the recollections of many a school-boy ramble over the hills and into all kinds of
quarries, far and near. It is said to be the most perfect collection in existence. I was pleased
to find many old acquaintances there, from the mines of Pennsylvania; Massachusetts and New
York were also very well represented. I had no idea before, that the mineral wealth of Austria
was so great. Besides the iron and lead mines among the hills of Styria and the quicksilver
of Idria, there is no small amount of gold and silver found, and the Carpathian mountains are
rich in jasper, opal and lapiz lazuli. The largest opal ever found, was in this collection.
It weighs thirty-four ounces and looks like a condensed rainbow.

In passing the palace, we saw several persons entering the basement story under the Library,
and had the curiosity to follow them. By so doing, we saw the splendid equipages of the house
of Austria. There must have been near a hundred carriages and sleds, of every shape and style,
from the heavy, square vehicle of the last century to the most light and elegant conveyance
of the present day. One clumsy, but magnificent machine, of crimson and gold, was pointed out
as being a hundred and fifty years old. The misery we witnessed in starving Bohemia, formed
a striking contrast to all this splendor.

Beside the Imperial Picture Gallery, there are several belonging to princes and noblemen in
Vienna, which are scarcely less valuable. The most important of these is that of Prince Liechtenstein,
which we visited yesterday. We applied to the porter's lodge for admittance to the gallery,
but he refused to open it for two persons; as we did not wish a long walk for nothing, we concluded
to wait for other visitors. Presently a gentleman and lady came and inquired if the gallery
was open. We told him it would probably be opened now, although the porter required a larger
number, and he went to ask. After a short time he returned, saying: "He will come immediately;
I thought best to put the number a little higher, and so I told him there were six of us!"
Having little artistic knowledge of paintings, I judge of them according to the effect they
produce upon me--in proportion as they gratify the innate love for the beautiful and the true.
I have been therefore disappointed in some painters whose names are widely known, and surprised
again to find works of great beauty by others of smaller fame. Judging by such a standard,
I should say that "Cupid sleeping in the lap of Venus," by Correggio, is the glory of this
collection. The beautiful limbs of the boy-god droop in the repose of slumber, as his head
rests on his mother's knee, and there is a smile lingering around his half-parted lips, as
if he was dreaming new triumphs. The face is not that of the wicked, mischief-loving child,
but rather a sweet cherub, bringing a blessing to all he visits. The figure of the goddess
is exquisite. Her countenance, unearthly in its loveliness, expresses the tenderness of a young
mother, as she sits with one finger pressed on her rosy lip, watching his slumber. It is a
picture which "stings the brain with beauty."

The chapel of St. Augustine contains one of the best works of Canova--the monument of the Grand
Duchess, Maria Christina, of Sachsen-Teschen. It is a pyramid of gray marble, twenty-eight
feet high, with an opening in the side, representing the entrance to a sepulchre. A female
figure personating Virtue bears in an urn to the grave, the ashes of the departed, attended
by two children with torches. The figure of Compassion follows, leading an aged beggar to the
tomb of his benefactor, and a little child with its hands folded. On the lower step rests a
mourning Genius beside a sleeping lion, and a bas-relief on the pyramid above represents an
angel carrying Christina's image, surrounded with the emblem of eternity, to Heaven. A spirit
of deep sorrow, which is touchingly portrayed in the countenance of the old man, pervades the
whole group. While we looked at it, the organ breathed out a slow, mournful strain, which harmonized
so fully with the expression of the figures, that we seemed to be listening to the requiem
of the one they mourned. The combined effect of music and sculpture, thus united in their deep
pathos, was such, that I could have sat down and wept. It was not from sadness at the death
of a benevolent though unknown individual,--but the feeling of grief, of perfect, unmingled
sorrow, so powerfully represented, came to the heart like an echo of its own emotion, and carried
it away with irresistible influence. Travellers have described the same feeling while listening
to the Miserere in the Sistine Chapel, at Rome. Canova could not have chiseled the monument
without tears.

One of the most interesting objects in Vienna, is the Imperial Armory. We were admitted through
tickets previously procured from the Armory Direction; as there was already one large company
within, we were told to wait in the court till our turn came. Around the wall on the inside,
is suspended the enormous chain which the Turks stretched across the Danube at Buda, in the
year 1529, to obstruct the navigation. It has eight thousand links and is nearly a mile in
length. The court is filled with cannon of all shapes and sizes, many of which were conquered
from other nations. I saw a great many which were cast during the French Revolution, with the
words "Liberté! Egalité!" upon them, and a number of others bearing the simple letter "N."

Finally the first company came down and the forty or fifty persons who had collected during
the interval, were admitted. The Armory runs around a hollow square, and must be at least a
quarter of a mile in length. We were all taken into a circular hall, made entirely of weapons,
to represent the four quarters of the globe. Here the crusty old guide who admitted us, rapped
with his stick on the shield of an old knight who stood near, to keep silence, and then addressed
us: "When I speak every one must be silent. No one can write or draw anything. No one shall
touch anything, or go to look at anything else, before I have done speaking. Otherwise, they
shall be taken immediately into the street again!" Thus in every hall he rapped and scolded,
driving the women to one side with his stick and the men to the other, till we were nearly
through, when the thought of the coming fee made him a little more polite. He had a regular
set of descriptions by heart, which he went through with a great flourish, pointing particularly
to the common military caps of the late Emperors of Prussia and Austria, as "treasures beyond
all price to the nation!" Whereupon, the crowd of common people gazed reverently on the shabby
beavers, and I verily believe, would have devoutly kissed them, had the glass covering been
removed. I happened to be next to a tall, dignified young man, who looked on all this with
a displeasure almost amounting to contempt. Seeing I was a foreigner, he spoke, in a low tone,
bitterly of the Austrian government. "You are not then an Austrian?" I asked. "No, thank God!"
was the reply: "but I have seen enough of Austrian tyranny. I am a Pole!"

The first wing contains banners used in the French Revolution, and liberty trees with the red
cap; the armor of Rudolph of Hapsburg, Maximilian I., the Emperor Charles V., and the hat,
sword and order of Marshal Schwarzenberg. Some of the halls represent a fortification, with
walls, ditches and embankments, made of muskets and swords. A long room in the second wing
contains an encampment, in which twelve or fifteen large tents are formed in like manner. Along
the sides are grouped old Austrian banners, standards taken from the French, and horsetails
and flags captured from the Turks. "They make a great boast," said the Pole, "of a half dozen
French colors, but let them go to the Hospital des Invalides, in Paris, and they will find
hundreds of the best banners of Austria!" They also exhibited the armor of a dwarf king of
Bohemia and Hungary, who died, a gray-headed old man, in his twentieth year; the sword of Marlborough;
the coat of Gustavus Adolphus, pierced in the breast and back with the bullet which killed
him at Lützen; the armor of the old Bohemian princess Libussa, and that of the amazon Wlaska,
with a steel visor made to fit the features of her face. The last wing was the most remarkable.
Here we saw the helm and breastplate of Attila, king of the Huns, which once glanced at the
head of his myriads of wild hordes, before the walls of Rome; the armor of Count Stahremberg,
who commanded Vienna during the Turkish siege in 1529, and the holy banner of Mahomet, taken
at that time from the Grand Vizier, together with the steel harness of John Sobieski of Poland,
who rescued Vienna from the Turkish troops under Kara Mustapha; the hat, sword and breastplate
of Godfrey of Bouillon, the Crusader-king of Jerusalem, with the banners of the cross the Crusaders
had borne to Palestine, and the standard they captured from the Turks on the walls of the Holy
City! I felt all my boyish enthusiasm for the romantic age of the Crusaders revive, as I looked
on the torn and mouldering banners which once waved on the hills of Judea, or perhaps followed
the sword of the Lion Heart through the fight on the field of Ascalon! What tales could they
not tell, those old standards, cut and shivered by spear and lance! What brave hands have carried
them through the storm of battle, what dying eyes have looked upwards to the cross on their
folds, as the last prayer was breathed for the rescue of the Holy Sepulchre!

I must now close the catalogue. This morning we shall look upon Vienna for the last time. Our
knapsacks are repacked, and the passports (precious documents!) visèd for Munich. The getting
of this visè, however, caused a comical scene at the Police Office, yesterday. We entered the
Inspector's Hall and took our stand quietly among the crowd of persons who were gathered around
a railing which separated them from the main office. One of the clerks came up, scowling at
us, and asked in a rough tone, "What do you want here?" We handed him our tickets of sojourn
(for when a traveler spends more than twenty-four hours in a German city, he must take out
a permission and pay for it) with the request that he would give us our passports. He glanced
over the tickets, came back and with constrained politeness asked us to step within the railing.
Here we were introduced to the Chief Inspector. "Desire Herr---- to come here," said he to
a servant; then turning to us, "I am happy to see the gentlemen in Vienna." An officer immediately
came up, who addressed us in fluent English. "You may speak in your native tongue," said the
Inspector:--"excuse our neglect; from the facility with which you speak German, we supposed
you were natives of Austria!" Our passports were signed at once and given us with a gracious
bow, accompanied by the hope that we would visit Vienna again before long. All this, of course,
was perfectly unintelligible to the wondering crowd outside the railing. Seeing however, the
honors we were receiving, they crowded back and respectfully made room for us to pass out.
I kept a grave face till we reached the bottom of the stairs, when I gave way to restrained
laughter in a manner that shocked the dignity of the guard, who looked savagely at me over
his forest of moustache. I would nevertheless have felt grateful for the attention we received
as Americans, were it not for our uncourteous reception as suspected Austrians.

We have just been exercising the risible muscles again, though from a very different cause,
and one which, according to common custom, ought to draw forth symptoms of a lachrymose nature.
This morning B---- suggested an examination of our funds, for we had neglected keeping a strict
account, and what with being cheated in Bohemia and tempted by the amusements of Vienna, there
was an apparent dwindling away. So we emptied our pockets and purses, counted up the contents,
and found we had just ten florins, or four dollars apiece. The thought of our situation, away
in the heart of Austria, five hundred miles from our Frankfort home, seems irresistibly laughable.
By allowing twenty days for the journey, we shall have half a florin a day, to travel on. This
is a homoeopathic allowance, indeed, but we have concluded to try it. So now adieu, Vienna!
In two hours we shall be among the hills again.

CHAPTER XXIII.

UP THE DANUBE.

We passed out of Vienna in the face of one of the strongest winds it was ever my lot to encounter.
It swept across the plain with such force that it was almost impossible to advance till we
got under the lee of a range of hills. About two miles from the barrier we passed Schoenbrunn,
the Austrian Versailles. It was built by the Empress Maria Theresa, and was the residence of
Napoleon in 1809, when Vienna was in the hands of the French. Later, in 1832, the Duke of Reichstadt
died in the same room which his father once occupied. Behind the palace is a magnificent garden,
at the foot of a hill covered with rich forests and crowned with an open pillared hall, 300
feet long, called the Gloriette. The colossal eagle which surmounts it, can be seen a great
distance.

The lovely valley in which Schoenbrunn lies, follows the course of the little river Vienna
into the heart of that mountain region lying between the Styrian Alps and the Danube, and called
the Vienna Forest. Into this our road led, between hills covered with wood, with here and there
a lovely green meadow, where herds of cattle were grazing. The third day we came to the Danube
again at Melk, a little city built under the edge of a steep hill, on whose summit stands the
palace-like abbey of the Benedictine Monks. The old friars must have had a merry life of it,
for the wine-cellar of the abbey furnished the French army 50,000 measures for several days
in succession. The shores of the Danube here are extremely beautiful. The valley where it spreads
out, is filled with groves, but where the hills approach the stream, its banks are rocky and
precipitous, like the Rhine. Although not so picturesque as the latter river, the scenery of
the Danube is on a grander scale. On the south side the mountains bend down to it with a majestic
sweep, and there must be delightful glances into the valleys that lie between, in passing down
the current.

But we soon left the river, and journeyed on through the enchanting inland vales. To give an
idea of the glorious enjoyment of traveling through such scenes, let me copy a leaf out of
my journal, written as we rested at noon on the top of a lofty hill:--"Here, while the delightful
mountain breeze that comes fresh from the Alps cools my forehead, and the pines around are
sighing their eternal anthem, I seize a few moments to tell what a paradise is around me. I
have felt an elevation of mind and spirit, a perfect rapture from morning till night, since
we left Vienna. It is the brightest and balmiest June weather; an ever fresh breeze sings through
the trees and waves the ripening grain on the verdant meadows and hill-slopes. The air is filled
with bird-music. The larks sing above us out of sight, the bullfinch wakes his notes in the
grove, and at eve the nightingale pours forth her thrilling strain. The meadows are literally
covered with flowers--beautiful purple salvias, pinks such as we have at home in our gardens
and glowing buttercups, color the banks of every stream. I never saw richer or more luxuriant
foliage. Magnificent forests clothe the hills, and the villages are imbedded in fruit trees,
shrubbery and flowers. Sometimes we go for miles through some enchanting valley, lying like
a paradise between the mountains, while the distant, white Alps look on it from afar; sometimes
over swelling ranges of hills, where we can see to the right the valley of the Danube, threaded
by his silver current and dotted with white cottages and glittering spires, and farther beyond,
the blue mountains of the Bohemian Forest. To the left, the range of the Styrian Alps stretches
along the sky, summit above summit, the farther ones robed in perpetual snow. I could never
tire gazing on those glorious hills. They fill the soul with a conception of sublimity, such
as one feels when listening to triumphal music. They seem like the marble domes of a mighty
range of temples, where earth worships her Maker with an organ-anthem of storms!

"There is a luxury in traveling here. We walk all day through such scenes, resting often in
the shade of the fruit trees which line the road, or on a mossy bank by the side of some cool
forest. Sometimes for enjoyment as well as variety, we make our dining-place by a clear spring
instead of within a smoky tavern; and our simple meals have a relish an epicure could never
attain. Away with your railroads and steamboats and mail-coaches, or keep them for those who
have no eye but for the sordid interests of life! With my knapsack and pilgrim-staff, I ask
not their aid. If a mind and soul full of rapture with beauty, a frame in glowing and vigorous
health, and slumbers unbroken even by dreams, are blessings any one would attain, let him pedestrianize
it through Lower Austria!"

I have never been so strongly and constantly reminded of America, as during this journey. Perhaps
the balmy season, the same in which I last looked upon the dear scenes of home, may have its
effect; but there is besides a richness in the forests and waving fields of grain, a wild luxuriance
over every landscape, which I have seen nowhere else in Europe. The large farm houses, buried
in orchards, scattered over the valleys, add to the effect. Everything seems to speak of happiness
and prosperity.

We were met one morning by a band of wandering Bohemian gipsies--the first of the kind I ever
saw. A young woman with a small child in her arms came directly up to me, and looking full
in my face with her wild black eyes, said, without any preface: "Yes, he too has met with sorrow
and trouble already, and will still have more. But he is not false--he is true and sincere,
and will also meet with good luck!" She said she could tell me three numbers with which I should
buy a lottery ticket and win a great prize. I told her I would have nothing to do with the
lottery, and would buy no ticket, but she persisted, saying: "Has he a twenty kreutzer piece?--will
he give it? Lay it in his hand and make a cross over it, and I will reveal the numbers!" On
my refusal, she became angry, and left me, saying: "Let him take care--the third day something
will happen to him!" An old, wrinkled hag made the same proposition to my companion with no
better success. They reminded me strikingly of our Indians; their complexion is a dark brown,
and their eyes and hair are black as night. These belonged to a small tribe who wander through
the forests of Bohemia, and support themselves by cheating and stealing.

We stopped the fourth night at Enns, a small city on the river of the same name, which divides
Upper from Lower Austria. After leaving the beautiful little village where we passed the night
before, the road ascended one of those long ranges of hills, which stretch off from the Danube
towards the Alps. We walked for miles over the broad and uneven summit, enjoying the enchanting
view which opened on both sides. If we looked to the right, we could trace the windings of
the Danube for twenty miles, his current filled with green, wooded islands; white cities lie
at the foot of the hills, which, covered to the summit with grain fields and vineyards, extended
back one behind another, till the farthest were lost in the distance. I was glad we had taken
the way from Vienna to Linz by land, for from the heights we had a view of the whole course
of the Danube, enjoying besides, the beauty of the inland vales and the far-off Styrian Alps.
From the hills we passed over we could see the snowy range as far as the Alps of Salzburg--some
of them seemed robed to the very base in their white mantles. In the morning the glaciers on
their summit glittered like stars; it was the first time I saw the sun reflected at a hundred
miles' distance!

On descending we came into a garden-like plain, over which rose the towers of Enns, built by
the ransom money paid to Austria for the deliverance of the Lion-hearted Richard. The country
legends say that St. Florian was thrown into the river by the Romans in the third century,
with a millstone around his neck, which, however, held him above the water like cork, until
he had finished preaching them a sermon. In the villages we often saw his imago painted on
the houses, in the act of pouring a pail of water on a burning building, with the inscription
beneath--"Oh, holy Florian, pray for us!" This was supposed to be a charm against fire. In
Upper Austria, it is customary to erect a shrine on the road, wherever an accident has happened,
with a painting and description of it, and an admonition to all passers-by to pray for the
soul of the unfortunate person. On one of them, for instance, was a cart with a wild ox, which
a man was holding by the horns; a woman kneeling by the wheels appeared to be drawing a little
girl by the feet from under it, and the inscription stated: "By calling on Jesus, Mary and
Joseph, the girl was happily rescued." Many of the shrines had images which the people no doubt,
in their ignorance and simplicity, considered holy, but they were to us impious and almost
blasphemous.

From Enns a morning's walk brought us to Linz. The peasant girls in their broad straw hats
were weeding the young wheat, looking as cheerful and contented as the larks that sung above
them. A mile or two from Linz we passed one or two of the round towers belonging to the new
fortifications of the city. As walls have grown out of fashion, Duke Maximilian substituted
an invention of his own. The city is surrounded by thirty two towers, one to three miles distant
from it, and so placed that they form a complete line of communication and defence. They are
sunk in the earth, surrounded with a ditch and embankments, and each is capable of containing
ten cannon and three hundred men. The pointed roofs of these towers are seen on all the hills
around. We were obliged to give up our passports at the barrier, the officer telling us to
call for them in three hours at the City Police Office; we spent the intervening time very
agreeably in rambling through this gay, cheerful-looking town. With its gilded spires and ornamented
houses, with their green lattice blinds, it reminds one strongly of Italy, or at least, of
what Italy is said to be. It has now quite an active and business-like aspect, occasioned by
the steamboat and railroad lines which connect it with Vienna, Prague, Ratisbon and Salzburg.
Although we had not exceeded our daily allowance by more than a few kreutzers, we found that
twenty days would be hardly sufficient to accomplish the journey, and our funds must therefore
be replenished. Accordingly I wrote from Linz to Frankfort, directing a small sum to be forwarded
to Munich, which city we hoped to reach in eight days.

We took the horse cars at Linz for Lambach, seventeen miles on the way towards Gmunden. The
mountains were covered with clouds as we approached them, and the storms they had been brewing
for two or three days began to march down on the plain. They had nearly reached us, when we
crossed the Traun and arrived at Lambach, a small city built upon a hill. We left the next
day at noon, and on ascending the hill after crossing the Traun, had an opportunity of seeing
the portrait on the Traunstein, of which the old landlord told us. I saw it at the first glance--certainly
it is a most remarkable freak of nature. The rough back of the mountain forms the exact profile
of the human countenance, as if regularly hewn out of the rock. What is still more singular,
it is said to be a correct portrait of the unfortunate Louis XVI. The landlord said it was
immediately recognized by all Frenchmen. The road followed the course of the Traun, whose green
waters roared at the bottom of the glen below us; we walked for several miles through a fine
forest, through whose openings we caught glimpses of the mountains we longed to reach.

The river roared at last somewhat louder, and on looking down the bank, I saw rocks and rapids,
and a few houses built on the edge of the stream. Thinking it must be near the fall, we went
down the path, and lo! on crossing a little wooden bridge, the whole affair burst in sight!
Judge of our surprise at finding a fall of fifteen feet, after we had been led to expect a
tremendous leap of forty or fifty, with all the accompaniment of rocks and precipices. Of course
the whole descent of the river at the place was much greater, and there were some romantic
cascades over the rocks which blocked its course. Its greatest beauty consisted in the color
of the water--the brilliant green of the waves being broken into foam of the most dazzling
white--and the great force with which it is thrown below.

The Traunstein grew higher as we approached, presenting the same profile till we had nearly
reached Gmunden. From the green upland meadows above the town, the view of the mountain range
was glorious, and I could easily conceive the effect of the Unknown Student's appeal to the
people to fight for those free hills. I think it is Howitt who relates the incident--one of
the most romantic in German history. Count Pappenheim led his forces here in the year 1626,
to suppress a revolution of the people of the whole Salzburg region, who had risen against
an invasion of their rights by the Austrian government. The battle which took place on these
meadows was about being decided in favor of the oppressors, when a young man, clad as a student,
suddenly appeared and addressed the people, pointing to the Alps above them and the sweet lake
below, and asking if that land should not be free. The effect was electrical; they returned
to the charge and drove back the troops of Pappenheim, who were about taking to flight, when
the unknown leader fell, mortally wounded. This struck a sudden panic through his followers,
and the Austrians turning again, gained a complete victory. But the name of the brave student
is unknown, his deed unsung by his country's bards, and almost forgotten.

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE UNKNOWN STUDENT.

    Ha! spears on Gmunden's meadows green,
      And banners on the wood-crowned height!
    Rank after rank, their helmets' sheen
      Sends back the morning light!
    Where late the mountain maiden sang,
    The battle-trumpet's brazen clang
      Vibrates along the air;
    And wild dragoons wheel o'er the plain.
    Trampling to earth the yellow grain,
    From which no more the merry swain
      His harvest sheaves shall bear.

    The eagle, in his sweep at morn,
      To meet the monarch-sun on high,
    Heard the unwonted warrior's horn
      Peal faintly up the sky!
    He saw the foemen, moving slow
    In serried legions, far below,
      Against that peasant-band,
    Who dared to break the tyrant's thrall
    And by the sword of Austria fall,
    Or keep the ancient Right of all,
      Held by their mountain-land;

    They came to meet that mail-clad host
      From glen and wood and ripening field;
    A brave, stout arm, each man could boast--
      A soul, unused to yield!
    They met: a shout, prolonged and loud,
    Went hovering upward with the cloud
      That closed around them dun;
    Blade upon blade unceasing clashed,
    Spears in the onset shivering crashed,
    And the red glare of cannon flashed
      Athwart the smoky sun!

    The mountain warriors wavered back,
      Borne down by myriads of the foe,
    Like pines before the torrent's track
      When spring has warmed the snow.
    Shall Faith and Freedom vainly call,
    And Gmunden's warrior-herdsmen fall
      On the red field in vain?
    No! from the throng that back retired,
    A student boy sprang forth inspired,
    And while his words their bosoms fired,
      Led on the charge again!

    "And thus your free arms would ye give
      So tamely to a tyrant's band,
    And with the hearts of vassals live
      In this, your chainless land?
    The emerald lake is spread below,
    And tower above, the hills of snow--
      Here, field and forest lie;
    This land, so glorious and so free--
    Say, shall it crushed and trodden be?
    Say, would ye rather bend the knee
      Than for its freedom die?

    "Look! yonder stand in mid-day's glare
      The everlasting Alps of snow,
    And from their peaks a purer air
      Breathes o'er the vales below!
    The Traun his brow is bent in pride--
    He brooks no craven on his side--
      Would ye be fettered then?
    There lifts the Sonnenstein his head,
    There chafes the Traun his rocky bed
    And Aurach's lovely vale is spread--
      Look on them and be men!

    "Let, like a trumpet's sound of fire,
      These stir your souls to manhood's part--
    The glory of the Alps inspire
      Each yet unconquered heart!
    For, through their unpolluted air
    Soars fresher up the grateful prayer
      From freemen, unto God;--
    A blessing on those mountains old!
    On to the combat, brethren bold!
    Strike, that ye free the valleys hold,
      Where free your fathers trod!"

    And like a mighty storm that tears
      The icy avalanche from its bed,
    They rushed against th' opposing spears--
      The student at their head!
    The bands of Austria fought in vain;
    A bloodier harvest heaped the plain
      At every charge they made;
    Each herdsman was a hero then--
    The mountain hunters stood like men,
    And echoed from the farthest glen
      The clash of blade on blade!

    The banner in the student's hand
      Waved triumph from the fight before;
    What terror seized the conq'ring band?--
      It fell, to rise no more!
    And with it died the lofty flame,
    That from his lips in lightning came
      And burned upon their own;
    Dread Pappenheim led back the foe,
    The mountain peasants yielded slow,
    And plain above and lake below
      Were red when evening shone!

    Now many a year has passed away
      Since battle's blast rolled o'er the plain,
    The Alps are bright in morning's ray--
      The Traunstein smiles again.
    But underneath the flowery sod,
    By happy peasant children trod,
      A hero's ashes lay.
    O'er him no grateful nation wept,
    Fame, of his deed no record kept,
    And dull Forgetfulness hath swept
      His very name away!

    In many a grave, by poets sung,
      There falls to dust a lofty brow,
    But he alone, the brave and young,
      Sleeps there forgotten now.
    The Alps upon that field look down,
    Which won his bright and brief renown,
       Beside the lake's green shore;
    Still wears the land a tyrant's chain--
    Still bondmen tread the battle-plain,
    Culled by his glorious soul in vain
      To win their rights of yore.

CHAPTER XXV.

THE AUSTRIAN ALPS.

It was nearly dark when we came to the end of the plain and looked on the city at our feet
and the lovely lake that lost itself in the mountains before us. We were early on board the
steamboat next morning, with a cloudless sky above us and a snow-crested Alp beckoning on from
the end of the lake. The water was of the most beautiful green hue, the morning light colored
the peaks around with purple, and a misty veil rolled up the rocks of the Traunstein. We stood
on the prow and enjoyed to the fullest extent the enchanting scenery. The white houses of Gmunden
sank down to the water's edge like a flock of ducks; halfway we passed castle Ort, on a rock
in the lake, whose summit is covered with trees.

As we neared the other extremity, the mountains became steeper and loftier; there was no path
along their wild sides, nor even a fisher's hut nestled at their feet, and the snow filled
the ravines more than half-way from the summit. An hour and a quarter brought us to Ebensee,
at the head of the lake, where we landed and plodded on towards Ischl, following the Traun
up a narrow valley, whose mountain walls shut out more than half the sky. They are covered
with forests, and the country is inhabited entirely by the woodmen who fell the mountain pines
and float the timber rafts down to the Danube. The steeps are marked with white lines, where
the trees have been rolled, or rather thrown from the summit. Often they descend several miles
over rooks and precipices, where the least deviation from the track would dash them in a thousand
pieces. This generally takes place in the winter when the sides are covered with snow and ice.
It must be a dangerous business, for there are many crosses by the way-side where the pictures
represent persons accidentally killed by the trees; an additional painting represents them
as burning in the flames of purgatory, and the pious traveler is requested to pray an Ave or
a Paternoster for the repose of their souls.

On we went, up the valley of the Traun, between mountains five and six thousand feet high,
through scenes constantly changing and constantly grand, for three or four hours. Finally the
hills opened, disclosing a little triangular valley, whose base was formed by a mighty mountain
covered with clouds. Through the two side angles came the Traun and his tributary the Ischl,
while the little town of Ischl lay in the centre. Within a few years this has become a very
fashionable bathing place, and the influx of rich visitors, which in the summer sometimes amounts
to two thousand, has entirely destroyed the primitive simplicity the inhabitants originally
possessed. From Ischl we took a road through the forests to St. Wolfgang, on the lake of the
same name. The last part of the way led along the banks of the lake, disclosing some delicious
views. These Alpine lakes surpass any scenery I have yet seen. The water is of the most beautiful
green, like a sheet of molten beryl, and the cloud-piercing mountains that encompass them shut
out the sun for nearly half the day. St. Wolfgang is a lovely village in a cool and quiet nook
at the foot of the Schafberg. The houses tire built in the picturesque Swiss style, with flat,
projecting roofs and ornamented balconies, and the people are the very picture of neatness
and cheerfulness.

We started next morning to ascend the Schafberg, which is called the Righi of the Austrian
Switzerland. It is somewhat higher than its Swiss namesake, and commands a prospect scarcely
less extensive or grand. We followed a footpath through the thick forest by the side of a roaring
torrent. The morning mist still covered the lake, but the white summits of the Salzburg and
Noric Alps opposite us, rose above it and stood pure and bright in the upper air. We passed
a little mill and one or two cottages, and then wound round one of the lesser heights into
a deep ravine, down in whose dark shadow we sometimes heard the axe and saw of the mountain
woodmen. Finally the path disappeared altogether under a mass of logs and rocks, which appeared
to have been whirled together by a sudden flood. We deliberated what to do; the summit rose
several thousand feet above us, almost precipitously steep, but we did not like to turn back,
and there was still a hope of meeting with the path again. Clambering over the ruins and rubbish
we pulled ourselves by the limbs of trees up a steep ascent and descended again to the stream.
We here saw the ravine was closed by a wall of rock and our only chance was to cross to the
west side of the mountain, where the ascent seemed somewhat easier. A couple of mountain maidens
whom we fortunately met, carrying home grass for their goats, told us the mountain could be
ascended on that side, by one who could climb well--laying a strong emphasis on the word. The
very doubt implied in this expression was enough to decide us; so we began the work. And work
it was, too! The side was very steep, the trees all leaned downwards, and we slipped at every
step on the dry leaves and grass. After making a short distance this way with the greatest
labor, we came to the track of an avalanche, which had swept away the trees and earth. Here
the rock had been worn rough by torrents, but by using both hands and feet, we clomb directly
up the side of the mountain, sometimes dragging ourselves up by the branches of trees where
the rocks were smooth. After half an hour of such work we came above the forests, on the bare
side of the mountain. The summit was far above us and so steep that our limbs involuntarily
shrunk from the task of climbing. The side ran up at an angle of nearly sixty degrees, and
the least slip threw us flat on our faces. We had to use both hand and foot, and were obliged
to rest every few minutes to recover breath. Crimson-flowered moss and bright blue gentians
covered the rocks, and I filled my books with blossoms for friends at home.

Up and up, for what seemed an age, we clambered. So steep was it, that the least rocky projection
hid my friend from sight, as he was coming up below me. I let stones roll sometimes, which
went down, down, almost like a cannonball, till I could see them no more. At length we reached
the region of dwarf pines, which was even more difficult to pass through. Although the mountain
was not so steep, this forest, centuries old, reached no higher than our breasts, and the trees
leaned downwards, so that we were obliged to take hold of the tops of those above us, and drag
ourselves up through the others. Here and there lay large patches of snow; we sat down in the
glowing June sun, and bathed our hands and faces in it. Finally the sky became bluer and broader,
the clouds seemed nearer, and a few more steps through the bushes brought us to the summit
of the mountain, on the edge of a precipice a thousand feet deep, whose bottom stood in a vast
field of snow!

We lay down on the heather, exhausted by five hours' incessant toil, and drank in like a refreshing
draught, the sublimity of the scene, The green lakes of the Salzburg Alps lay far below us,
and the whole southern horizon was filled with the mighty range of the Styrian and Noric Alps,
their summits of never-melting snow mingling and blending with the clouds. On the other side
the mountains of Salzburg lifted their ridgy backs from the plains of Bavaria and the Chiem
lake lay spread out in the blue distance. A line of mist far to the north betrayed the path
of the Danube, and beyond it we could barely trace the outline of the Bohemian mountains. With
a glass the spires of Munich, one hundred and twenty miles distant, can be seen. It was a view
whose grandeur I can never forget. In that dome of the cloud we seemed to breathe a purer air
than that of earth.

After an hour or two, we began to think of descending, as the path was yet to be found. The
summit, which was a mile or more in length, extended farther westward, and by climbing over
the dwarf pines for some time, we saw a little wooden house above us. It stood near the highest
part of the peak, and two or three men were engaged in repairing it, as a shelter for travelers.
They pointed out the path which went down on the side toward St. Gilgen, and we began descending.
The mountain on this side is much less steep, but the descent is fatiguing enough. The path
led along the side of a glen where mountain goats were grazing, and further down we saw cattle
feeding on the little spots of verdure which lay in the forest. My knees became so weak from
this continued descent, that they would scarcely support me; but we were three hours, partly
walking and partly running down, before we reached the bottom. Half an hour's walk around the
head of the St. Wolfgang See, brought us to the little village of St. Gilgen.

The valley of St. Gilgen lies like a little paradise between the mountains. Lovely green fields
and woods slope gradually from the mountain behind, to the still greener lake spread out before
it, in whose bosom the white Alps are mirrored. Its picturesque cottages cluster around the
neat church with its lofty spire, and the simple inhabitants have countenances as bright and
cheerful as the blue sky above them. We breathed an air of poetry. The Arcadian simplicity
of the people, the pastoral beauty of the fields around and the grandeur of the mountains which
shut it out from the world, realized my ideas of a dwelling place, where, with a few kindred
spirits, the bliss of Eden might almost be restored.

We stopped there two or three hours to relieve our hunger and fatigue. My boots had suffered
severely in our mountain adventure, and I called at a shoemaker's cottage to get them repaired.
I sat down and talked for half an hour with the family. The man and his wife spoke of the delightful
scenery around them, and expressed themselves with correctness and even elegance. They were
much pleased that I admired their village so greatly, and related every thing which they supposed
could interest me. As I rose to go, my head nearly touched the ceiling, which was very low.
The man exclaimed: "Ach Gott! how tall!" I told him the people were all tall in our country;
he then asked where I came from, and I had no sooner said America, than he threw up his hands
and uttered an ejaculation of the greatest surprise. His wife observed that "it was wonderful
how far man was permitted to travel." They wished me a prosperous journey and a safe return home.

St. Gilgen was also interesting to me from that beautiful chapter in "Hyperion"--"Footsteps
of Angels,"--and on passing the church on my way back to the inn, I entered the graveyard mentioned
in it. The green turf grows thickly over the rows of mounds, with here and there a rose planted
by the hand of affection, and the white crosses were hung with wreaths, some of which had been
freshly laid on. Behind the church, under the shade of a tree, stood a small chapel,--I opened
the unfastened door, and entered. The afternoon sun shone through the side window, and all
was still around. A little shrine, adorned with flowers, stood at the other end, and there
were two tablets on the wall, to persons who slumbered beneath, I approached these and read
on one of them with feelings not easily described: "Look not mournfully into the past--it comes
not again; wisely improve the present--it is thine; and go forward to meet the shadowy future,
without fear, and with a manly heart!" This then was the spot where Paul Flemming came in loneliness
and sorrow to muse over what he had lost, and these were the words whose truth and eloquence
strengthened and consoled him, "as if the unknown tenant of the grave had opened his lips of
dust and spoken those words of consolation his soul needed." I sat down and mused a long time,
for there was something in the silent holiness of the spot, that impressed me more than I could
well describe.

We reached a little village on the Fuschel See, the same evening, and set off the next morning
for Salzburg. The day was hot and we walked slowly, so that it was not till two o'clock that
we saw the castellated rocks on the side of the Gaissberg, guarding the entrance to the valley
of Salzburg. A short distance further, the whole glorious panorama was spread out below us.
From the height on which we stood, we looked directly on the summit of the Capuchin Mountain,
which hid part of the city from sight; the double peak of the Staufen rose opposite, and a
heavy storm was raging along the Alpine heights around it, while the lovely valley lay in sunshine
below, threaded by the bright current of the Salza. As we descended and passed around the foot
of the hill, the Untersberg came in sight, whose broad summits lift themselves seven thousand
feet above the plain. The legend says that Charlemagne and his warriors sit in its subterraneous
caverns in complete armor, and that they will arise and come forth again, when Germany recovers
her former power and glory.

I wish I could convey in words some idea of the elevation of spirit experienced while looking
on these eternal mountains. They fill the soul with a sensation of power and grandeur which
frees it awhile from the cramps and fetters of common life. It rises and expands to the level
of their sublimity, till its thoughts stand solemnly aloft, like their summits, piercing the
free heaven. Their dazzling and imperishable beauty is to the mind an image of its own enduring
existence. When I stand upon some snowy summit--the invisible apex of that mighty pyramid--there
seems a majesty in my weak will which might defy the elements. This sense of power, inspired
by a silent sympathy with the forms of nature, is beautifully described--as shown in the free,
unconscious instincts of childhood--by the poet Uhland, in his ballad of the "Mountain Boy."
I have attempted a translation.

    THE MOUNTAIN BOY.

    A herd-boy on the mountain's brow,
    I see the castles all below.
    The sunbeam here is earliest cast
    And by my side it lingers last--
       I am the boy of the mountain!

    The mother-house of streams is here--
    I drink them in their cradles clear;
    From out the rock they foam below,
    I spring to catch them as they go!
       I am the boy of the mountain!

    To me belongs the mountain's bound,
    Where gathering tempests march around;
    But though from north and south they shout,
    Above them still my song rings out--
       "I am the boy of the mountain!"

    Below me clouds and thunders move;
    I stand amid the blue above.
    I shout to them with fearless breast:
    "Go, leave my father's house in rest!"
       I am the boy of the mountain!

    And when the loud bell shakes the spires
    And flame aloft the signal-fires,
    I go below and join the throng
    And swing my sword and sing my song:
       "I am the boy of the mountain!"

Salzburg lies on both sides of the Salza, hemmed in on either hand by precipitous mountains.
A large fortress overlooks it on the south, from the summit of a perpendicular rock, against
which the houses in that part of the city arc built. The streets are narrow and crooked, but
the newer part contains many open squares, adorned with handsome fountains. The variety of
costume among the people, is very interesting. The inhabitants of the salt district have a
peculiar dress; the women wear round fur caps, with little wings of gauze at the side. I saw
other women with headdresses of gold or silver filagree, something in shape like a Roman helmet,
with a projection at the back of the head, a foot long. The most interesting objects in Salzburg
to us, were the house of Mozart, in which the composer was born, and the monument lately erected
to him. The St. Peter's Church, near by, contains the tomb of Haydn, the great composer, and
the Church of St. Sebastian, that of the renowned Paracelsus, who was also a native of Salzburg.

Two or three hours sufficed to see every thing of interest in the city. We had intended lo
go further through the Alps, to the beautiful vales of the Tyrol, but our time was getting
short, our boots, which are the pedestrian's sole dependence, began to show symptoms of wearing
out, and our expenses among the lakes and mountains of Upper Austria, left us but two florins
apiece, so we reluctantly turned our backs upon the snowy hills and set out for Munich, ninety
miles distant. After passing the night at Saalbruck, on the banks of the stream which separates
the two kingdoms, we entered Bavaria next morning. I could not help feeling glad to leave Austria,
although within her bounds I had passed scones whose beauty will long haunt me, and met with
many honest friendly hearts among her people. We noticed a change as soon as we had crossed
the border. The roads were neater and handsomer, and the country people greeted us in going
by, with a friendly cheerfulness that made us feel half at home. The houses are built in the
picturesque Swiss fashion, their balconies often ornamented with curious figures, carved in
wood. Many of them, where they are situated remote from a church, have a little bell on the
roof which they ring for morning and evening prayers; we often heard these simple monitors
sounding from the cottages as we passed by.

The next night we stopped at the little village of Stein, famous in former times for its robber-knight,
Hans von Stein. The ruins of his castle stand on the rock above, and the caverns hewn in the
sides of the precipice, where he used to confine his prisoners, are still visible. Walking
on through a pleasant, well-cultivated country, we came to Wasserburg, on the Inn. The situation
of the city is peculiar. The Inn has gradually worn his channel deeper in the sandy soil, so
that he now flows at the bottom of a glen, a hundred feet below the plains around. Wasserburg
lies in a basin, formed by the change of the current, which flows around it like a horseshoe,
leaving only a narrow neck of land which connects it with the country above.

We left the little village where we were quartered for the night and took a foot path which
led across the country to the field of Hohenlinden, about six miles distant. The name had been
familiar to me from childhood, and my love for Campbell, with the recollection of the school-exhibitions
where "On Linden when the sun was low" had been so often declaimed, induced me to make the
excursion to it. We traversed a large forest, belonging to the King of Bavaria, and came out
on a plain covered with grain fields and bounded on the right by a semi-circle of low hills.
Over the fields, about two miles distant, a tall, minaret-like spire rose from a small cluster
of houses, and this was Hohenlinden! To tell the truth, I had been expecting something more.
The "hills of blood-stained snow" are very small hills indeed, and the "Isar, rolling rapidly,"
is several miles off; it was the spot, however, and we recited Campbell's poem, of course,
and brought away a few wild flowers as memorials. There is no monument or any other token of
the battle, and the people seem to endeavor to forget the scene of Moreau's victory and their
defeat.

From a hill twelve miles off we had our first view of the spires of Munich, looking like distant
ships over the sea-like plain. They kept in sight till we arrived at eight o'clock in the evening,
after a walk of more than thirty miles. We crossed the rapid Isar on three bridges, entered
the magnificent Isar Gate, and were soon comfortably quartered in the heart of Munich.

Entering the city without knowing a single soul within it, we made within a few minutes an
agreeable acquaintance. After we passed the Isar Gate, we began looking for a decent inn, for
the day's walk was very fatiguing. Presently a young man, who had been watching us for some
time, came up and said, if we would allow him, he would conduct us to a good lodging-place.
Finding we were strangers, he expressed the greatest regret that he had not time to go with
us every day around the city. Our surprise and delight at the splendor of Munich, he said,
would more than repay him for the trouble. In his anxiety to show us something, he took us
some distance out of the way, (although it was growing dark and we were very tired,) to see
the Palace and the Theatre, with its front of rich frescoes.

                               PART II.

CHAPTER XXVI.

MUNICH.

June 14.--I thought I had seen every thing in Vienna that could excite admiration or gratify
fancy; here I have my former sensations to live over again, in an augmented degree. It is well
I was at first somewhat prepared by our previous travel, otherwise the glare and splendor of
wealth and art in this German Athens might blind me to the beauties of the cities we shall
yet visit. I have been walking in a dream where the fairy tales of boyhood were realized, and
the golden and jeweled halls of the Eastern genii rose glittering around me--"a vision of the
brain no more." All I had conceived of oriental magnificence, all descriptions of the splendor
of kingly halls and palaces, fall far short of what I here see. Where shall I begin to describe
the crowd of splendid edifices that line its streets, or how give an idea of the profusion
of paintings and statues--of marble, jasper and gold?

Art has done every thing for Munich. It lies on a large, flat plain, sixteen hundred feet above
the sea, and continually exposed to the cold winds from the Alps. At the beginning of the present
century it was but a third-rate city, and was rarely visited by foreigners. Since that time
its population and limits have been doubled, and magnificent edifices in every style of architecture
erected, rendering it scarcely secondary in this respect to any capital in Europe. Every art
that wealth or taste could devise, seems to have been spent in its decoration. Broad, spacious
streets and squares have been laid out, churches, halls and colleges erected, and schools of
painting and sculpture established, which draw artists from all parts of the world. All this
was principally brought about by the taste of the present king, Ludwig I., who began twenty
or thirty years ago, when he was Crown Prince, to collect the best German artists around him
and form plans for the execution of his grand design. He can boast of having done more for
the arts than any other living monarch, and if he had accomplished it all without oppressing
his people, he would deserve an immortality of fame.

Now, if you have nothing else to do, let us take a stroll down the Ludwigstrasse. As we pass
the Theatiner Church, with its dome and towers, the broad street opens before us, stretching
away to the north, between rows of magnificent buildings. Just at this southern end, is the
Schlusshalle, an open temple of white marble terminating the avenue. To the right of us extend
the arcades, with the trees of the Royal Garden peeping above them; on the left is the spacious
concert building of the Odeon, and the palace of the Duke of Leuchtenberg, son of Eugene Beauharnois.
Passing through a row of palace-like private buildings, we come to the Army Department, on
the right--a neat and tasteful building of white sandstone. Beside it stands the Library, which
possesses the first special claim on our admiration. With its splendid front of five hundred
and eighteen feet, the yellowish brown cement with which the body is covered, making an agreeable
contrast with the dark red window-arches and cornices, and the statues of Homer, Hippocrates,
Thucydides and Aristotle guarding the portal, is it not a worthy receptacle for the treasures
of ancient and modern lore which its halls contain?

Nearly opposite stands the Institute for the Blind, a plain but large building of dark red
brick, covered with cement, and further, the Ludwig's Kirche, or Church of St. Louis. How lightly
the two square towers of gray marble lift their network of sculpture! And what a novel and
beautiful effect is produced by uniting the Byzantine style of architecture to the form of
the Latin cross! Over the arched portal stand marble statues by Schwanthaler, and the roof
of brilliant tiles worked into mosaic, looks like a rich Turkey carpet covering the whole.
We must enter to get an idea of the splendor of this church. Instead of the pointed arch which
one would expect to see meeting above his head, the lofty pillars on each side bear an unbroken
semicircular vault, which is painted a brilliant blue, and spangled with silver stars. These
pillars, and the little arches above, which spring from them, are painted in an arabesque style
with gold and brilliant colors, and each side-chapel is a perfect casket of richness and elegance.
The windows are of silvered glass, through which the light glimmers softly on the splendor
within. The whole end of the church behind the high altar, is taken up with Cornelius's celebrated
fresco painting of the "Last Judgment,"--the largest painting in the world--and the circular
dome in the centre of the cross contains groups of martyrs, prophets, saints and kings, painted
in fresco on a ground of gold. The work of Cornelius has been greatly praised for sublimity
of design and beauty of execution, by many acknowledged judges; I was disappointed in it, but
the fault lay most probably in me and not in the painting. The richness and elegance of the
church took me all "aback;" it was so entirely different from anything I had seen, that it
was difficult to decide whether I was most charmed by its novelty or its beauty. Still, as
a building designed to excite feelings of worship, it seems to me inappropriate. A vast, dim
Cathedral would be far preferable; the devout, humble heart cannot feel at home amid such glare
and brightness.

As we leave the church and walk further on, the street expands suddenly into a broad square.
One side is formed by the new University building and the other by the Royal Seminary, both
displaying in their architecture new forms of the graceful Byzantine school, which the architects
of Munich have adapted in a striking manner to so many varied purposes. On each side stands
a splendid colossal fountain of bronze, throwing up a great mass of water, which falls in a
triple cataract to the marble basin below. A short distance beyond this square the Ludwigstrasse
terminates. It is said the end will be closed by a magnificent gate, on a style to correspond
with the unequalled avenue to which it will give entrance. To one standing at the southern
end, it would form a proper termination to the grand vista. Before we leave, turn around and
glance back, down this street, which extends for half a mile between such buildings as we have
just viewed, and tell me if it is not something of which a city and a king may boast, to have
created all this within less than twenty years!

We went one morning to see the collection of paintings formerly belonging to Eugene Beauharnois,
who was brother-in-law to the present king of Bavaria, in the palace of his son, the Duke of
Leuchtenberg. The first hall contains works principally by French artists, among which are
two by Gerard--a beautiful portrait of Josephine, and the blind Belisarius carrying his dead
companion. The boy's head lies on the old man's shoulder; but for the livid paleness of his
limbs, he would seem to be only asleep, while a deep and settled sorrow marks the venerable
features of the unfortunate Emperor. In the middle of the room are six pieces of statuary,
among which Canova's world-renowned group of the Graces at once attracts the eye. There is
also a kneeling Magdalen, lovely in her woe, by the same sculptor, and a very touching work
of Schadow, representing a shepherd boy tenderly binding his sash around a lamb which he has
accidentally wounded with his arrow.

We have since seen in the St. Michael's Church, the monument to Eugene Beauharnois, from the
chisel of Thorwaldsen. The noble, manly figure of the son of Josephine is represented in the
Roman mantle, with his helmet and sword lying on the ground by him. On one side sits History,
writing on a tablet; on the other, stand the two brother-angels, Death and Immortality. They
lean lovingly together, with arms around each other, but the sweet countenance of Death has
a cast of sorrow, as he stands with inverted torch and a wreath of poppies among his clustering
locks. Immortality, crowned with never-fading flowers, looks upwards with a smile of triumph,
and holds in one hand his blazing torch. It is a beautiful idea, and Thorwaldsen has made the
marble eloquent with feeling.

The inside of the square formed by the Arcades and the New Residence, is filled with noble
old trees, which in summer make a leafy roof over the pleasant walks. In the middle, stands
a grotto, ornamented with rough pebbles and shells, and only needing a fountain to make it
a perfect hall of Neptune. Passing through the northern Arcade, one comes into the magnificent
park, called the English Garden, which extends more than four miles along the bank of the Isar,
several branches of whose milky current wander through it, and form one or two pretty cascades.
It is a beautiful alternation of forest and meadow, and has all the richness and garden-like
luxuriance of English scenery. Winding walks lead along the Isar, or through the wood of venerable
oaks, and sometimes a lawn of half a mile in length, with a picturesque temple at its further
end, comes in sight through the trees. I was better pleased with this park than with the Prater
in Vienna. Its paths are always filled with persons enjoying the change from the dusty streets
to its quiet and cool retirement.

The New Residence is not only one of the wonders of Munich, but of the world. Although commenced
in 1826 and carried on constantly since that time by a number of architects, sculptors and
painters, it is not yet finished; if art were not inexhaustible it would be difficult to imagine
what more could be added. The north side of the Max Joseph Platz is taken up by its front of
four hundred and thirty feet, which was nine years in building, under the direction of the
architect Klenze. The exterior is copied after the Palazzo Pitti, in Florence. The building
is of light brown sandstone, and combines an elegance and even splendor, with the most chaste
and classic style. The northern front, which faces on the Royal Garden, is now nearly finished.
It has the enormous length of eight hundred feet; in the middle is a portico of ten Ionic columns;
instead of supporting a triangular facade, each pillar stands separate and bears a marble statue
from the chisel of Schwanthaler.

The interior of the building does not disappoint the promise of the outside. It is open every
afternoon in the absence of the king, for the inspection of visitors; fortunately for us, his
majesty is at present on a journey through his provinces on the Rhine. We went early to the
waiting hall, where several travelers were already assembled, and at four o'clock, were admitted
into the newer part of the palace, containing the throne hall, ballroom, etc. On entering the
first hall, designed for the lackeys and royal servants, we were all obliged to thrust our
feet into cloth slippers to walk over the polished mosaic floor. The walls are of scagliola
marble and the ceilings ornamented brilliantly in fresco. The second hall, also for servants,
gives tokens of increasing splendor in the richer decorations of the walls and the more elaborate
mosaic of the floor. We next entered the receiving saloon, in which the Court Marshal receives
the guests. The ceiling is of arabesque sculpture, profusely painted and gilded. Passing through
a little cabinet, we entered the great dancing saloon. Its floor is the richest mosaic of wood
of different colors, the sides are of polished scagliola marble, and the ceiling a dazzling
mixture of sculpture, painting and gold. At one end is a gallery for the orchestra, supported
by six columns of variegated marble, above which are six dancing nymphs, painted so beautifully
that they appear like living creatures. Every decoration which could be devised has been used
to heighten its splendor, and the artists appear to have made free use of the Arabian Nights
in forming the plan.

We entered next two smaller rooms containing the portraits of beautiful women, principally
from the German nobility. I gave the preference to the daughter of Marco Bozzaris, now maid
of honor to the Queen of Greece. She had a wild dark eye, a beautiful proud lip, and her rich
black hair rolled in glossy waves down her neck from under the red Grecian cap stuck jauntily
on the side of her head. She wore a scarf and close-fitting vest embroidered with gold, and
there was a free, lofty spirit in her countenance worthy the name she bore. These pictures
form a gallery of beauty, whose equal cannot easily be found.

Returning to the dancing hall, we entered the dining saloon, also called the Hall of Charlemagne.
Each wall has two magnificent fresco paintings of very large size, representing some event
in the life of the great emperor, beginning with his anointing at St. Deny's as a boy of twelve
years, and ending with his coronation by Leo III. A second dining saloon, the Hall of Barbarossa,
adjoins the first. It has also eight frescoes as the former, representing the principal events
in the life of Frederic Barbarossa. Then comes a third, called the Hapsburg Hall, with four
grand paintings from the life of Rudolph of Hapsburg, and a triumphal procession along the
frieze, showing the improvement in the arts and sciences which was accomplished under his reign.
The drawing, composition and rich tone of coloring of these glorious frescoes, are scarcely
excelled by any in existence.

Finally we entered the Hall of the Throne. Here the encaustic decoration, so plentifully employed
in the other rooms, is dropped, and an effect even more brilliant obtained by the united use
of marble and gold. Picture a long hall with a floor of polished marble, on each side twelve
columns of white marble with gilded capitals, between which stand colossal statues of gold.
At the other end is the throne of gold and crimson, with gorgeous hangings of crimson velvet.
The twelve statues in the hall are called the "Wittlesbach Ancestors," and represent renowned
members of the house of Wittlesbach from which the present family of Bavaria is descended.
They were cast in bronze by Stiglmaier, after the models of Schwanthaler, and then completely
covered with a coating of gold, so that they resemble solid golden statues. The value of the
precious metal on each one is about $3,000, as they arc nine feet in height! What would the
politicians who made such an outcry about the new papering of the President's House, say to
such a palace as this?

Going back to the starting point, we went to the other wing of the edifice and joined the party
who came to visit the apartments of the king. Here we were led through two or three rooms,
appropriated to the servants, with all the splendor of marble doors, floors of mosaic, and
frescoed ceilings. From these we entered the king's dwelling. The entrance halls are decorated
with paintings of the Argonauts and illustrations of the Hymns of Hesiod, after drawings by
Schwanthaler. Then came the Service Hall, containing frescoes illustrating Homer, by Schnorr,
and the Throne Hall, with Schwanthaler's bas-reliefs of the songs of Pindar, on a ground of
gold. The throne stands under a splendid crimson canopy. The Dining Room with its floor of
polished wood is filled with illustrations of the songs of Anacreon. To these follow the Dressing
Room, with twenty-seven illustrations of the Comedies of Aristophanes, and the sleeping chamber
with frescoes after the poems of Theocritus, and two beautiful bas-reliefs representing angels
bearing children to Heaven. It is no wonder the King writes poetry, when he breathes, eats,
and even sleeps in an atmosphere of it.

We were shown the rooms for the private parties of the Court, the school-room, with scenes
from the life of the Ancient Greeks, and then conducted down the marble staircases to the lower
story, which is to contain Schnorr's magnificent frescoes of the Nibelungen Lied--the old German
Iliad. Two halls are at present finished; the first has the figure of the author, Heinrich
von Ofterdingen, and those of Chriemhilde, Brunhilde, Siegfried and the other personages of
the poem; and the second, called the Marriage Hall, contains the marriage of Chriemhilde and
Siegfried, and the triumphal entry of Siegfried into Worms.

Adjoining the new residence on the east, is the Royal Chapel, lately finished in the Byzantine
style, under the direction of Klenze. To enter it, is like stepping into a casket of jewels.
The sides are formed by a double range of arches, the windows being so far back as to be almost
out of sight, so that the eye falls on nothing but painting and gold. The lower row of arches
is of alternate green and purple marble, beautifully polished; but the upper, as well as the
small chancel behind the high altar, is entirely covered with fresco paintings on a ground
of gold! The richness and splendor of the whole church is absolutely incredible. Even after
one has seen the Ludwig's Kirche and the Residence itself, it excites astonishment. I was surprised,
however, to find at this age, a painting on the wall behind the altar, representing the Almighty.
It seems as if man's presumption has no end. The simple altar of Athens, with its inscription
"to the Unknown God," was more truly reverent than this. As I sat down awhile under one of
the arches, a poor woman came in, carrying a heavy basket, and going to the steps which led
up to the altar, knelt down and prayed, spreading her arms out in the form of a cross. Then,
after stooping and kissing the first step, she dragged herself with her knees upon it, and
commenced praying again with outspread arms. This she continued till she had climbed them all,
which occupied some time; then, as if she had fulfilled a vow she turned and departed. She
was undoubtedly sincere in her piety, but it made me sad to look upon such deluded superstition.

We visited yesterday morning the Glyptothek, the finest collection of ancient sculpture except
that in the British Museum, I have yet seen, and perhaps elsewhere unsurpassed, north of the
Alps. The building which was finished by Klenze, in 1830, has an Ionic portico of white marble,
with a group of allegorical figures, representing Sculpture and the kindred arts. On each side
of the portico, there are three niches in the front, containing on one side, Pericles, Phidias
and Vulcan; on the other, Hadrian, Prometheus and Dædalus. The whole building forms a hollow
square, and is lighted entirely from the inner side. There are in all twelve halls, each containing
the remains of a particular era in the art, and arranged according to time, so that, beginning
with the clumsy productions of the ancient Egyptians, one passes through the different stages
of Grecian art, afterwards that of Rome, and finally ends with the works of our own times--the
almost Grecian perfection of Thorwaldsen and Canova. These halls are worthy to hold such treasures,
and what more could be said of them? The floors are of marble mosaic, the sides of green or
purple scagliola, and the vaulted ceilings covered with raised ornaments on a ground of gold.
No two are alike in color and decoration, and yet there is a unity of taste and design in the
whole, which renders the variety delightful.

From the Egyptian Hall, we enter one containing the oldest remains of Grecian sculpture, before
the artists won power to mould the marble to their conceptions. Then follow the celebrated
Egina marbles, from the temple of Jupiter Panhellenius, on the island of Egina. They formerly
stood in the two porticoes, the one group representing the fight for the body of Laomedon,
the other the struggle for the dead Patroclus. The parts wanting have been admirably restored
by Thorwaldsen. They form almost the only existing specimens of the Eginetan school. Passing
through the Apollo Hall, we enter the large hall of Bacchus, in which the progress of the art
is distinctly apparent. A satyr, lying asleep on a goat-skin which he has thrown over a rock,
is believed to be the work of Praxiteles. The relaxation of the figure and perfect repose of
every limb, is wonderful. The countenance has traits of individuality which led me to think
it might have been a portrait, perhaps of some rude country swain.

In the Hall of Niobe, which follows, is one of the most perfect works that ever grew into life
under a sculptor's chisel. Mutilated as it is, without head and arms, I never saw a more expressive
figure. Ilioneus, the son of Niobe, is represented as kneeling, apparently in the moment in
which Apollo raises his arrow, and there is an imploring supplication in his attitude which
is touching in the highest degree. His beautiful young limbs seem to shrink involuntarily from
the deadly shaft; there is an expression of prayer, almost of agony, in the position of his
body. It should be left untouched. No head could be added, which would equal that one pictures
to himself, while gazing upon it.

The Pinacothek is a magnificent building of yellow sandstone, five hundred and thirty feet
long, containing thirteen hundred pictures, selected with great care from the whole private
collection of the king, which amounts to nine thousand. Above the cornice on the southern side,
stand twenty-five colossal statues of celebrated painters, by Schwanthaler. As we approached,
the tall bronze door was opened by a servant in the Bavarian livery, whose size harmonized
so well with the giant proportions of the building, that, until I stood beside him and could
mark the contrast, I did not notice his enormous frame. I saw then that he must be near eight
feet high, and stout in proportion. He reminded me of the great "Baver of Trient," in Vienna.
The Pinacothek contains the most complete collection of works by old German artists, anywhere
to be found. There are in the hall of the Spanish masters, half a dozen of Murillo's inimitable
beggar groups. It was a relief, after looking upon the distressingly stiff figures of the old
German school, to view these fresh, natural countenances. One little black-eyed boy has just
cut a slice out of a melon and turns with a full mouth to his companion, who is busy eating
a bunch of grapes. The simple, contented expression on the faces of the beggars is admirable.
I thought I detected in a beautiful child, with dark curly locks, the original of his celebrated
Infant St. John. I was much interested in two small juvenile works of Raphael and his own portrait.
The latter was taken most probably after he became known as a painter. The calm, serious smile
which we see on his portrait as a boy, had vanished, and the thin features and sunken eye told
of intense mental labor.

One of the most remarkable buildings now in the course of erection is the Basilica, or Church
of St. Bonifacius. It represents another form of the Byzantine style, a kind of double edifice,
a little like a North River steamboat, with a two story cabin on deck. The inside is not yet
finished, although the artists have been at work on it for six years, but we heard many accounts
of its splendor, which is said to exceed anything that has been yet done in Munich. We visited
to-day the atelier of Sohwanthaler, which is always open to strangers. The sculptor himself
was not there, but five or six of his scholars were at work in the rooms, building up clay
statues after his models and working out bas-reliefs in frames. We saw here the original models
of the statues on the Pinacothek, and the "Wittelsbach Ancestors" in the Throne Hall of the
palace. I was glad also to find a miniature copy in plaster, of the Herrmannsschlacht, or combat
of the old German hero, Herrmann, with the Romans, from the frieze of the Walhalla, at Ratisbon.
It is one of Schwanthaler's best works. Herrmann, as the middle figure, is represented in fight
with the Roman general; behind him the warriors are rushing on, and an old bard is striking
the chords of his harp to inspire them, while women bind up the wounds of the fallen. The Roman
soldiers on the other side are about turning in confusion to fly. It is a lofty and appropriate
subject for the portico of a building containing the figures of the men who have labored for
the glory and elevation of their Fatherland.

Our new-found friend came to visit us last evening and learn our impressions of Munich. In
the course of conversation we surprised him by revealing the name of our country. His countenance
brightened up and he asked us many questions about the state of society in America. In return,
he told us something more about himself--his story was simple, hut it interested me. His father
was a merchant, who, having been ruined by unlucky transactions, died, leaving a numerous family
without the means of support. His children were obliged to commence life alone and unaided,
which, in a country where labor is so cheap, is difficult and disheartening. Our friend chose
the profession of a machinist, which, after encountering great obstacles, he succeeded in learning,
and now supports himself as a common laborer. But his position in this respect prevents him
from occupying that station in society for which he is intellectually fitted. His own words,
uttered with a simple pathos which I can never forget, will best describe how painful this
must be to a sensitive spirit. "I tell you thus frankly my feelings," said he, "because I know
you will understand me. I could not say this to any of my associates, for they would not comprehend
it, and they would say I am proud, because I cannot bring my soul down to their level. I am
poor and have but little to subsist upon; but the spirit has needs as well as the body, and
I feel it a duty and a desire to satisfy them also. When I am with any of my common fellow-laborers,
what do I gain from them? Their leisure hours are spent in drinking and idle amusement, and
I cannot join them, for I have no sympathy with such things. To mingle with those above me,
would be impossible. Therefore I am alone--I have no associate!"

I have gone into minute, and it may be, tiresome detail, in describing some of the edifices
of Munich, because it seemed the only way in which I could give an idea of their wonderful
beauty. It is true that in copying after the manner of the daguerreotype, there is danger of
imitating its dullness also, but I trust to the glitter of gold and rich paintings, for a little
brightness in the picture. We leave to-morrow morning, having received the sum written for,
which, to our surprise, will be barely sufficient to enable us to reach Heidelberg.

CHAPTER XXVII.

THROUGH WURTEMBERG TO HEIDELBERG.

We left Munich in the morning train for Augsburg. Between the two cities extends a vast unbroken
plain, exceedingly barren and monotonous. Here and there is a little scrubby woodland, and
sometimes we passed over a muddy stream which came down from the Alps. The land is not more
than half-cultivated, and the villages are small and poor. We saw many of the peasants at their
stations, in their gay Sunday dresses; the women wore short gowns with laced boddices, of gay
colors, and little caps on the top of their heads, with streamers of ribbons three feet long.
After two hours' ride, we saw the tall towers of Augsburg, and alighted on the outside of the
wall. The deep moat which surrounds the city, is all grown over with velvet turf, the towers
and bastions are empty and desolate, and we passed unchallenged under the gloomy archway. Immediately
on entering the city, signs of its ancient splendor are apparent. The houses are old, many
of them with quaint, elaborately carved ornaments, and often covered with fresco paintings.
These generally represent some scene from the Bible history, encircled with arabesque borders,
and pious maxims in illuminated scrolls. We went into the old Rathhaus, whose golden hall still
speaks of the days of Augsburg's pride. I saw in the basement a bronze eagle, weighing sixteen
tons, with an inscription on the pedestal stating that it was cast in 1606, and formerly stood
on the top of an old public building, since torn down. In front of the Rathhaus is a fine bronze
fountain, with a number of figures of angels and tritons.

The same afternoon, we left Augsburg for Ulm. Long, low ranges of hills, running from the Danube,
stretched far across the country, and between them lay many rich, green valleys. We passed,
occasionally, large villages, perhaps as old as the times of the crusaders, and looking quite
pastoral and romantic from the outside; but we were always glad when we had gone through them
and into the clean country again. The afternoon of the second day we came in sight of the fertile
plain of the Danube; far, far to the right lay the field of Blenheim, where Marlborough and
the Prince Eugene conquered the united French and Bavarian forces and decided the war of the
Spanish succession.

We determined to reach Ulm the same evening, although a heavy storm was raging along the distant
hills of Wurtemberg. The dark mass of the mighty Cathedral rose in the distance through the
twilight, a perfect mountain in comparison with the little houses clustered around its base.
We reached New Ulm, finally, and passed over the heavy wooden bridge into Wurtemberg, unchallenged
for passport or baggage. I thought I could feel a difference in the atmosphere when I reached
the other side--it breathed of the freer spirit that ruled through the land. The Danube is
here a little muddy stream, hardly as large as my native Brandywine, and a traveler who sees
it at Ulm for the first time would most probably be disappointed. It is not until below Vienna,
where it receives the Drave and Save, that it becomes a river of more than ordinary magnitude.

We entered Ulm, as I have already said. It was after nine o'clock, nearly dark, and beginning
to rain; we had walked thirty-three miles, and being of course tired, we entered the first
inn we saw. But, to our consternation, it was impossible to get a place--the fair had just
commenced, and the inn was full to the roof. We must needs hunt another, and then another,
and yet another, with like fate at each. It grew quite dark, the rain increased, and we were
unacquainted with the city. I grew desperate, and at last, when we had stopped at the eighth
inn in vain, I told the people we must have lodgings, for it was impossible we should walk
around in the rain all night. Some of the guests interfering in our favor, the hostess finally
sent a servant with us to the first hotel in the city. I told him on the way we were Americans,
strangers in Ulm, and not accustomed to sleeping in the streets. "Well," said he, "I will go
before, and recommend you to the landlord of the Golden Wheel." I knew not what magic he used,
but in half an hour our weary limbs were stretched in delightful repose and we thanked Heaven
more gratefully than ever before, for the blessing of a good bed.

Next morning we ran about through the booths of the fair, and gazed up from all sides at the
vast Cathedral. The style is the simplest and grandest Gothic; but the tower, which, to harmonize,
with the body of the church, should be 520 feet high, was left unfinished at the height of
234 feet. I could not enough admire the grandeur of proportion in the great building. It seemed
singular that the little race of animals who swarmed around its base, should have the power
to conceive or execute such a gigantic work.

There is an immense fortification now in progress of erection behind Ulm. It leans on the side
of the hill which rises from the Danube, and must be nearly a mile in length. Hundreds of laborers
are at work, and from the appearance of the foundations, many years will be required to finish
it. The lofty mountain-plain which we afterwards passed over, for eight or ten miles, divides
the waters of the Danube from the Rhine. From the heights above Ulm, we bade adieu to the far,
misty Alps, till we shall see them again in Switzerland. Late in the afternoon, we came to
a lovely green valley, sunk as it were in the earth. Around us, on all sides, stretched the
bare, lofty plains; but the valley lay below, its steep sides covered with the richest forest.
At the bottom flowed the Fils. Our road led directly down the side; the glen spread out broader
as we advanced, and smiling villages stood beside the stream. A short distance before reaching
Esslingen, we came upon the banks of the Neckar, whom we hailed as an old acquaintance, although
much smaller here in his mountain home than when he sweeps the walls of Heidelberg.

Delightful Wurtemberg! Shall I ever forget thy lovely green vales, watered by the classic current
of the Neckar, or thy lofty hills covered with vineyards and waving forests, and crowned with
heavy ruins, that tell many a tale of Barbarossa and Duke Ulric and Goetz with the Iron Hand!
No--were even the Suabian hills less beautiful--were the Suabian people less faithful and kind
and true, still I would love the land for the great spirits it has produced; still would the
birth-place of Frederick Schiller, of Uhland and Hauff, be sacred. I do not wonder Wurtemberg
can boast such glorious poets. Its lovely landscapes seem to have been made expressly for the
cradle of genius; amid no other scenes could his infant mind catch a more benign inspiration.
Even the common people are deeply imbued with a poetic feeling. We saw it in their friendly
greetings and open, expressive countenances; it is shown in their love for their beautiful
homes and the rapture and reverence with which they speak of their country's bards. No river
in the world, equal to the Neckar in size, flows for its whole course through more delightful
scenery, or among kinder and happier people.

After leaving Esslingen, we followed its banks for some time, at the foot of an amphitheatre
of hills, covered to the very summit, as far as the eye could reach, with vineyards. The morning
was cloudy, and white mist-wreaths hung along the sides. We took a road that led over the top
of a range, and on arriving at the summit, saw all at once the city of Stuttgard, lying beneath
our feet. It lay in a basin encircled by mountains, with a narrow valley opening to the south-east,
and running off between the hills to the Neckar. The situation of the city is one of wonderful
beauty, and even after seeing Salzburg, I could not but be charmed with it.

We descended the mountain and entered it. I inquired immediately for the monument of Schiller,
for there was little else in the city I cared to see. We had become tired of running about
cities, hunting this or that old church or palace, which perhaps was nothing when found. Stuttgard
has neither galleries, ruins, nor splendid buildings, to interest the traveler; but it has
Thorwaldsen's statue of Schiller, calling up at the same time its shame and its glory. For
the poet in his youth was obliged to fly from this very same city--from home and friends, to
escape the persecution of the government on account of the free sentiments expressed in his
early works. We found the statue, without much difficulty. It stands in the Schloss Platz,
at the southern end of the city, in an unfavorable situation, surrounded by dark old buildings.
It should rather be placed aloft on a mountain summit, in the pure, free air of heaven, braving
the storm and the tempest. The figure is fourteen feet high and stands on a pedestal of bronze,
with bas reliefs on the four sides. The head, crowned with a laurel wreath, is inclined as
if in deep thought, and all the earnest soul is seen in the countenance. Thorwaldsen has copied
so truly the expression of poetic reverie, that I waited, half-expecting he would raise his
head and look around him.

As we passed out the eastern gate, the workmen were busy near the city, making an embankment
for the new railroad to Heilbroun, and we were obliged to wade through half a mile of mud.
Finally the road turned to the left over a mountain, and we walked on in the rain, regardless
of the touching entreaties of an omnibus-driver, who felt a great concern for our health, especially
as he had two empty seats. There is a peculiarly agreeable sensation in walking in a storm,
when the winds sweep by and the rain-drops rattle through the trees, and the dark clouds roll
past just above one's head. It gives a dash of sublimity to the most common scene. If the rain
did not finally soak through the boots, and if one did not lose every romantic feeling in wet
garments, I would prefer storm to sunshine, for visiting some kinds of scenery. You remember,
we saw the North Coast of Ireland and the Giant's Causeway in stormy weather, at the expense
of being completely drenched, it is true; but our recollections of that wild day's journey
are as vivid as any event of our lives--and the name of the Giant's Causeway calls up a series
of pictures as terribly sublime as any we would wish to behold.

The rain at last did come down a little too hard for comfort, and we were quite willing to
take shelter when we reached Ludwigsburg. This is here called a new city, having been laid
out with broad streets and spacious squares, about a century ago, and is now about the size
of our five-year old city of Milwaukie! It is the chief military station of Wurtemberg, and
has a splendid castle and gardens, belonging to the king. A few miles to the eastward is the
little village where Schiller was born. It is said the house where his parents lived is still
standing.

It was not the weather alone, which prevented our making a pilgrimage to it, nor was it alone
a peculiar fondness for rain which induced us to persist in walking in the storm. Our feeble
pockets, if they could have raised an audible jingle, would have told another tale. Our scanty
allowance was dwindling rapidly away, in spite of a desperate system of economy. We left Ulm
with a florin and a half apiece--about sixty cents--to walk to Heidelberg, a distance of 110
miles. It was the evening of the third day, and this was almost exhausted. As soon therefore
as the rain slackened a little, we started again, although the roads were very bad. At Betigheim,
where we passed the night, the people told us of a much nearer and more beautiful road, passing
through the Zabergau, a region fumed for its fertility and pastoral beauty. At the inn we were
charged higher than usual for a bed, so that we had but thirteen kreutzers to start with in
the morning. Our fare that day was a little bread and water; we walked steadily on, but owing
to the wet roads, made only thirty miles.

A more delightful region than the Zabergau I have seldom passed through. The fields were full
of rich, heavy grain, and the trees had a luxuriance of foliage that reminded me of the vale
of the Jed, in Scotland. Without a single hedge or fence, stood the long sweep of hills, covered
with waving fields of grain, except where they were steep and rocky, and the vineyard terraces
rose one above another. Sometimes a fine old forest grew along the summit, like a mane waving
back from the curved neck of a steed, and white villages lay coiled in the valleys between.
A line of blue mountains always closed the vista, on looking down one of these long valleys;
occasionally a ruined castle with donjon tower, was seen on a mountain at the side, making
the picture complete. As we lay sometimes on the hillside and looked on one of those sweet
vales, we were astonished at its Arcadian beauty. The meadows were as smooth as a mirror, and
there seemed to be scarcely a grass-blade out of place. The streams wound through ("snaked
themselves through," is the German expression,) with a subdued ripple, as if they feared to
displace a pebble, and the great ash trees which stood here and there, had lined each of their
leaves as carefully with silver and turned them as gracefully to the wind, us if they were
making their toilettes for the gala-day of nature.

That evening brought us into the dominions of Baden, within five hours' walk of Heidelberg.
At the humblest inn in an humble village, we found a bed which we could barely pay for, leaving
a kreutzer or two for breakfast. Soon after starting the next morning, the distant Kaiserstuhl
suddenly emerged from the mist, with the high tower on its summit, where nearly ten months
before, we sat and looked at the summits of the Vosges in France, with all the excitement one
feels on entering a foreign land. Now, the scenery around that same Kaiserstuhl was nearly
as familiar to us as that of our own homes. Entering the hills again, we knew by the blue mountains
of the Odenwald, that we were approaching the Neckar. At length we reached the last height.
The town of Neckargemünd lay before us on the steep hillside, and the mountains on either side
were scarred with quarries of the rich red sandstone, so much used in building. The blocks
are hewn out, high up on the mountain side, and then sent rolling and sliding down to the river,
where they are laden in boats and floated down with the current to the distant cities of the Rhine.

We were rejoiced on turning around the corner of a mountain, to see on the opposite side of
the river, the road winding up through the forests, where last fall our Heidelberg friends
accompanied us, as we set out to walk to Frankfort, through the Odenwald. Many causes combined
to render it a glad scene to us. We were going to meet our comrade again, after a separation
of months; we were bringing an eventful journey to its close; and finally, we were weak and
worn out from fasting and the labor of walking in the rain. A little further we saw Kloster
Neuburg, formerly an old convent, and remembered how we used to look at it every day from the
windows of our room on the Neckar; but we shouted aloud, when we saw at last the well-known
bridge spanning the river, and the glorious old castle lifting its shattered towers from the
side of the mountain above us. I always felt a strong attachment to this matchless ruin, and
as I beheld it again, with the warm sunshine falling through each broken arch, the wild ivy
draping its desolate chambers, it seemed to smile on me like the face of a friend, and I confessed
I had seen many a grander scene, but few that would cling to the memory so familiarly.

While we were in Heidelberg, a student was buried by torch-light. This is done when particular
honor is shown to the memory of the departed brother. They assembled at dark in the University
Square, each with a blazing pine torch three feet long, and formed into a double line. Between
the files walked at short distances an officer, who, with his sword, broad lace collar, and
the black and white plumes in his cap, looked like a cavalier of the olden time. Persons with
torches walked on each side of the hearse, and the band played a lament so deeply mournful,
that the scene, notwithstanding its singularity, was very sad and touching. The thick smoke
from the torches filled the air, and a lurid, red light was cast over the hushed crowds in
the streets and streamed into the dark alleys. The Hauptstrasse was filled with two lines of
flame, as the procession passed down it; when they reached the extremity of the city, the hearse
went on, attended with torch-bearers, to the Cemetery, some distance further, and the students
turned back, running and whirling their torches in mingled confusion. The music struck up a
merry march, and in the smoke and red glare, they looked like a company of mad demons. The
presence of death awed them to silence for awhile, but as soon as it had left them, they turned
relieved to revel again and thought no more of the lesson. It gave me a painful feeling to
see them rushing so wildly and disorderly back. They assembled again in the square, and tossing
their torches up into the air cast them blazing into a pile; while the flame and black smoke
rose in a column into the air, they sang in solemn chorus, the song "Gaudeamus igitur," with
which they close all public assemblies.

I shall neglect telling how we left Heidelberg, and walked along the Bergstrasse again, for
the sixth time; how we passed the old Melibochus and through the quiet city of Darmstadt; how
we watched the blue summits of the Taunus rising higher and higher over the plain, as a new
land rises from the sea, and finally, how we reached at last the old watch-tower and looked
down on the valley of the Main, clothed in the bloom and verdure of summer, with the houses
and spires of Frankfort in the middle of the well-known panorama. We again took possession
of our old rooms, and having to wait for a remittance from America, as well as a more suitable
season for visiting Italy, we sat down to a month's rest and study.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

FREIBURG AND THE BLACK FOREST.

Frankfort, July 29, 1845.--It would be ingratitude towards the old city in which I have passed
so many pleasant and profitable hours, to leave it, perhaps forever, without a few words of
farewell. How often will the old bridge, with its view up the Main, over the houses of Oberrad
to the far mountains of the Odenwald, rise freshly and distinctly in memory, when I shall have
been long absent from them! How often will I hear in fancy as I now do in reality, the heavy
tread of passers-by on the rough pavement below, and the deep bell of the Cathedral, chiming
the swift hours, with a hollow tone that seems to warn me, rightly to employ them! Even this
old room, with its bare walls, little table and chairs, which I have thought and studied in
so long, that it seems difficult to think and study anywhere else, will crowd out of memory
images of many a loftier scene. May I but preserve for the future the hope and trust which
have cheered and sustained me here, through the sorrow of absence and the anxiety of uncertain
toil! It is growing towards midnight and I think of many a night when I sat here at this hour,
answering the spirit-greeting which friends sent me at sunset over the sea. All this has now
an end. I must begin a new wandering, and perhaps in ten days more I shall have a better place
for thought, among the mountain-chambers of the everlasting Alps. I look forward to the journey
with romantic, enthusiastic anticipation, for afar in the silvery distance, stand the Coliseum
and St. Peter's, Vesuvius and the lovely Naples. Farewell, friends who have so long given us
a home!

Aug. 9.--The airy, basket-work tower of the Freiburg Minster rises before me over the black
roofs of the houses, and behind stand the gloomy, pine-covered mountains of the Black Forest.
Of our walk to Heidelberg over the oft-trodden Bergstrasse, I shall say nothing, nor how we
climbed the Kaiserstuhl again, and danced around on the top of the tower for one hour, amid
cloud and mist, while there was sunshine below in the valley of the Neckar. I left Heidelberg
yesterday morning in the stehwagen for Carlsruhe. The engine whistled, the train started, and
although I kept my eyes steadily fixed on the spire of the Hauptkirche, three minutes hid it,
and all the rest of the city from sight. Carlsruhe, the capital of Baden, which we reached
in an hour and a half, is unanimously pronounced by travelers to be a most dull and tiresome
city. From a glance I had through one of the gates, I should think its reputation was not undeserved.
Even its name, in German, signifies a place of repose.

I stopped at Kork, on the branch road leading to Strasbourg, to meet a German-American about
to return to my home in Pennsylvania, where he had lived for some time. I inquired according
to the direction he had sent me to Frankfort, but he was not there; however, an old man, finding
who I was, said Herr Otto had directed him to go with me to Hesselhurst, a village four or
five miles off, where he would meet me. So we set off immediately over the plain, and reached
the village at dusk.

At the little inn, were several of the farmers of the neighborhood, who seemed to consider
it as something extraordinary to see a real, live, native-born American. They overwhelmed me
with questions about the state of our country, its government, etc. The hostess brought me
a supper of fried eggs and wurst, while they gathered around the table and began a real category
in the dialect of the country, which is difficult to understand. I gave them the best information
I could about our mode of farming, the different kinds of produce raised, and the prices paid
to laborers; one honest old man cried out, on my saying I had worked on a farm, "Ah! little
brother, give me your hand!" which he shook most heartily. I told them also something about
our government, and the militia system, so different from the conscription of Europe, when
a farmer becoming quite warm in our favor, said to the others with an air of the greatest decision:
"One American is better than twenty Germans!" What particularly amused me, was, that although
I spoke German with them, they seemed to think I did not understand what they said among one
another, and therefore commented very freely over my appearance. I suppose they had the idea
that we were a rude, savage race, for I overheard one say: "One sees, nevertheless, that he
has been educated!" Their honest, unsophisticated mode of expression was very interesting to
me, and we talked together till a late hour.

My friend arrived at three o'clock the next morning, and after two or three hours' talk about
home, and the friends whom he expected to see so much sooner than I, a young farmer drove me
in his wagon to Offenburg, a small city at the foot of the Black Forest, where I took the cars
for Freiburg. The scenery between the two places is grand. The broad mountains of the Black
Forest rear their fronts on the east, and the blue lines of the French Vosges meet the clouds
on the west. The night before, in walking over the plain, I saw distinctly the whole of the
Strasbourg Minster, whose spire is the highest in Europe, being four hundred and ninety feet,
or but twenty-five feet lower than the Pyramid of Cheops.

I visited the Minster of Freiburg yesterday morning. It is a grand, gloomy old pile, dating
from the eleventh century--one of the few Gothic churches in Germany that have ever been completed.
The tower of beautiful fretwork, rises to the height of three hundred and ninety-five feet,
and the body of the church including the choir, is of the same length. The interior is solemn
and majestic. Windows stained in colors that burn, let in a "dim, religious light" which accords
very well with the dark old pillars and antique shrines. In two of the chapels there are some
fine altar-pieces by Holbein and one of his scholars; and a very large crucifix of silver and
ebony, which is kept with great care, is said to have been carried with the Crusaders to the
Holy Land. This morning was the great market-day, and the peasantry of the Black Forest came
down from the mountains to dispose of their produce. The square around the Minster was filled
with them, and the singular costume of the women gave the scene quite a strange appearance.
Many of them wore bright red head-dresses and shawls, others had high-crowned hats of yellow
oil-cloth; the young girls wore their hair in long plaits, reaching nearly to their feet. They
brought grain, butter and cheese and a great deal of fine fruit to sell--I bought some of the
wild, aromatic plums of the country, at the rate of thirty for a cent.

The railroad has only been open to Freiburg within a few days, and is consequently an object
of great curiosity to the peasants, many of whom never saw the like before. They throng around
the station at the departure of the train and watch with great interest the operations of getting
up the steam and starting. One of the scenes that grated most harshly on my feelings, was seeing
yesterday a company of women employed on the unfinished part of the road. They were digging
and shoveling away in the rain, nearly up to their knees in mud and clay!

I called at the Institute for the Blind, under the direction of Mr. Müller. He showed me some
beautiful basket and woven work by his pupils; the accuracy and skill with which everything
was made astonished me. They read with amazing facility from the raised type, and by means
of frames are taught to write with ease and distinctness. In music, that great solace of the
blind, they most excelled. They sang with an expression so true and touching, that it was a
delight to listen. The system of instruction adopted appears to be most excellent, and gives
to the blind nearly every advantage which their more fortunate brethren enjoy.

I am indebted to Mr. Müller, to whom I was introduced by an acquaintance with his friend, Dr.
Rivinus, of West Chester, Pa., for many kind attentions. He went with us this afternoon to
the Jägerhaus, on a mountain near, where we had a very fine view of the city and its great
black Minster, with the plain of the Briesgau, broken only by the Kaiserstuhl, a long mountain
near the Rhine, whose golden stream glittered in the distance. On climbing the Schlossberg,
an eminence near the city, we met the Grand Duchess Stephanie, a natural daughter of Napoleon,
as I have heard, and now generally believed to be the mother of Caspar Hauser. Through a work
lately published, which has since been suppressed, the whole history has come to light. Caspar
Hauser was the lineal descendant of the house of Baden, and heir to the throne. The guilt of
his imprisonment and murder rests, therefore, upon the present reigning family.

A chapel on the Schönberg, the mountain opposite, was pointed out as the spot where Louis XV.,
if I mistake not, usually stood while his army besieged Freiburg. A German officer having sent
a ball to this chapel which struck the wall just above the king's head, the latter sent word
that if they did not cease firing he would point his cannons at the Minster. The citizens thought
it best to spare the monarch and save the cathedral.

We attended a meeting of the Walhalla, or society of the students who visit the Freiburg University.
They pleased me better than the enthusiastic but somewhat unrestrained Burschenschaft of Heidelberg.
Here, they have abolished duelling; the greatest friendship prevails among the students, and
they have not that contempt for every thing philister, or unconnected with their studies, which
prevails in other universities. Many respectable citizens attend their meetings; to-night there
was a member of the Chamber of Deputies at Carlsruhe present, who delivered two speeches, in
which every third word was "freedom!" An address was delivered also by a merchant of the city,
in which he made a play upon the word spear, which signifies also in a cant sense, citizen,
find seemed to indicate that both would do their work in the good cause. He was loudly applauded.
Their song of union was by Charles Follen, and the students were much pleased when I told them
how he was honored and esteemed in America.

After two days, delightfully spent, we shouldered our knapsacks and left Freiburg. The beautiful
valley, at the mouth of which the city lies, runs like an avenue for seven miles directly into
the mountains, and presents in its loveliness such a contrast to the horrid defile which follows,
that it almost deserves the name which has been given to a little inn at its head--the "Kingdom
of Heaven." The mountains of the Black Forest enclose it on each side like walls, covered to
the summit with luxuriant woods, and in some places with those forests of gloomy pine which
give this region its name. After traversing its whole length, just before plunging into the
mountain-depths, the traveler rarely meets with a finer picture than that which, on looking
back, he sees framed between the hills at the other end. Freiburg looks around the foot of
one of the heights, with the spire of her cathedral peeping above the top, while the French
Vosges grew dim in the far perspective.

The road now enters a wild, narrow valley, which grows smaller as we proceed. From Himmelreich,
a large rude inn by the side of the green meadows, we enter the Höllenthal--that is, from the
"Kingdom of Heaven" to the "Valley of Hell!" The latter place better deserves its appellation
than the former. The road winds between precipices of black rock, above which the thick foliage
shuts out the brightness of day and gives a sombre hue to the scene. A torrent foams down the
chasm, and in one place two mighty pillars interpose to prevent all passage. The stream, however,
has worn its way through, and the road is hewn in the rock by its side. This cleft is the only
entrance to a valley three or four miles long, which lies in the very heart of the mountains.
It is inhabited by a few woodmen and their families, and but for the road which passes through,
would be as perfect a solitude as the Happy Valley of Rasselas. At the farther end, a winding
road called "The Ascent," leads up the steep mountain to an elevated region of country, thinly
settled and covered with herds of cattle. The cherries which, in the Rhine-plain below, had
long gone, were just ripe here. The people spoke a most barbarous dialect; they were social
and friendly, for everybody greeted us, and sometimes, as we sat on a bank by the roadside,
those who passed by would say "Rest thee!" or "Thrice rest!"

Passing by the Titi Lake, a small body of water which was spread out among the hills like a
sheet of ink, so deep was its Stygian hue, we commenced ascending a mountain. The highest peak
of the Schwarzwald, the Feldberg, rose not far off, and on arriving at the top of this mountain,
we saw that a half hour's walk would bring us to its summit. This was too great a temptation
for my love of climbing heights; so with a look at the descending sun to calculate how much
time we could spare, we set out. There was no path, but we pressed directly up the steep side,
through bushes and long grass, and in a short time reached the top, breathless from such exertion
in the thin atmosphere. The pine woods shut out the view to the north and east, which is said
to be magnificent, as the mountain is about five thousand feet high. The wild, black peaks
of the Black Forest were spread below us, and the sun sank through golden mist towards the
Alsatian hills. Afar to the south, through cloud and storm, we could just trace the white outline
of the Swiss Alps. The wind swept through the pines around, and bent the long yellow grass
among which we sat, with a strange, mournful sound, well suiting the gloomy and mysterious
region. It soon grew cold, the golden clouds settled down towards us, and we made haste to
descend to the village of Lenzkirch before dark.

Next morning we set out early, without waiting to see the trial of archery which was to take
place among the mountain youths. Their booths and targets, gay with banners, stood on a green
meadow beside the town. We walked through the Black Forest the whole forenoon. It might be
owing to the many wild stories whose scenes are laid among these hills, but with me there was
a peculiar feeling of solemnity pervading the whole region. The great pine woods are of the
very darkest hue of green, and down their hoary, moss-floored aisles, daylight seems never
to have shone. The air was pure and clear, and the sunshine bright, but it imparted no gaiety
to the scenery: except the little meadows of living emerald which lay occasionally in the lap
of a dell, the landscape wore a solemn and serious air. In a storm, it must be sublime.

About noon, from the top of the last range of hills, we had a glorious view. The line of the
distant Alps could be faintly traced high in the clouds, and all the heights between were plainly
visible, from the Lake of Constance to the misty Jura, which flanked the Vosges of the west.
From our lofty station we overlooked half Switzerland, and had the air been a little clearer,
we could have seen Mont Blanc and the mountains of Savoy. I could not help envying the feelings
of the Swiss, who, after long absence from their native land, first see the Alps from this
road. If to the emotions with which I then looked on them were added the passionate love of
home and country which a long absence creates, such excess of rapture would be almost too great
to be borne.

In the afternoon we crossed the border, and took leave of Germany with regret, after near a
year's residence within its bounds. Still it was pleasant to know we were in a republic once
more: the first step we took made us aware of the change. There was no policeman to call for
our passports or search our baggage. It was just dark when we reached the hill overlooking
the Rhine, on whose steep banks is perched the antique town of Schaffhausen. It is still walled
in, with towers at regular intervals; the streets are wide and spacious, and the houses rendered
extremely picturesque by the quaint projecting windows. The buildings are nearly all old, as
we learned by the dates above the doors. At the inn, I met with one of the free troopers who
marched against Luzerne. He was full of spirit, and ready to undertake another such journey.
Indeed it is the universal opinion that the present condition of things cannot last much longer.

We took a walk before breakfast to the Falls of the Rhine, about a mile and a half from Schaffhausen.
I confess I was somewhat disappointed in them, after the glowing descriptions of travelers.
The river at this place is little more than thirty yards wide, and the body of water, although
issuing from the Lake of Constance, is not remarkably strong. For some distance above, the
fall of the water is very rapid, and as it finally reaches the spot where, narrowed between
rocks, it makes the grand plunge, it has acquired a great velocity. Three rocks stand in the
middle of the current, which thunders against and around their bases, but cannot shake them
down. These and the rocks in the bed of the stream, break the force of the fall, so that it
descends to the bottom, about fifty feet below, not in one sheet, but shivered into a hundred
leaps of snowy foam. The precipitous shores, and the tasteful little castle which is perched
upon the steep just over the boiling spray, add much to its beauty, taken as a picture. As
a specimen of the picturesque, the whole scene is perfect. I should think Trenton Falls, in
New York, must excel these in wild, startling effect; but there is such a scarcity of waterfalls
in this land, that the Germans go into raptures about them, and will hardly believe that Niagara
itself possesses more sublimity.

CHAPTER XXIX.

PEOPLE AND PLACES IN EASTERN SWITZERLAND.

We left Schaffhausen for Zurich, in mist and rain, and walked for some time along the north
bank of the Rhine. We could have enjoyed the scenery much better, had it not been for the rain,
which not only hid the mountains from sight, but kept us constantly half soaked.

When we left the little village where the rain obliged us to stop for the night, it was clear
and delightful. The farmers were out, busy at work, their long, straight scythes glancing through
the wet grass, while the thick pines sparkled with thousands of dewy diamonds. The country
was so beautiful and cheerful, that we half felt like being in America. The farm-houses were
scattered over the country in real American style, and the glorious valley of the Limmat, bordered
on the west by a range of woody hills, reminded me of some scenes in my native Pennsylvania.
The houses were neatly and tastefully built, with little gardens around them--and the countenances
of the people spoke of intelligence and independence. There was the same air of peace and prosperity
which delighted us in the valleys of Upper Austria, with a look of freedom which those had
not. The faces of a people are the best index to their condition. I could read on their brows
a lofty self-respect, a consciousness of the liberties they enjoy, which the Germans of the
laboring class never show. It could not be imagination, for the recent occurrences in Switzerland,
with the many statements I heard in Germany, had prejudiced me somewhat against the land; and
these marks of prosperity and freedom were as surprising as they were delightful.

As we approached Zurich, the noise of employment from mills, furnaces and factories, came to
us like familiar sounds, reminding us of the bustle of our home cities. The situation of the
city is lovely. It lies at the head of the lake, and on both sides of the little river Limmat,
whose clear green waters carry the collected meltings of the Alps to the Rhine. Around the
lake rise lofty green hills, which, sloping gently back, bear on their sides hundreds of pleasant
country-houses and farms, and the snowy Alpine range extends along the southern sky. The Limmat
is spanned by a number of bridges, and its swift waters turn many mills which are built above
them. From these bridges one can look out over the blue lake and down the thronged streets
of the city on each side, whose bright, cheerful houses remind him of Italy.

Zurich can boast of finer promenades than any other city in Switzerland. The old battlements
are planted with trees and transformed into pleasant walks, which being elevated above the
city, command views of its beautiful environs. A favorite place of resort is the Lindenhof,
an elevated court-yard, shaded by immense trees. The fountains of water under them are always
surrounded by washerwomen, and in the morning groups of merry school children may be seen tumbling
over the grass. The teachers take them there in a body for exercise and recreation. The Swiss
children are beautiful, bright-eyed creatures; there is scarcely one who does not exhibit the
dawning of an active, energetic spirit. It may be partly attributed to the fresh, healthy climate
of Switzerland, but I am partial enough to republics to believe that the influence of the Government
under which they live, has also its share in producing the effect.

There is a handsome promenade on an elevated bastion which overlooks the city and lakes. While
enjoying the cool morning breeze and listening to the stir of the streets below us, we were
also made aware of the social and friendly politeness of the people. Those who passed by, on
their walk around the rampart, greeted us, almost with the familiarity of an acquaintance.
Simple as was the act, we felt grateful, for it had at least the seeming of a friendly interest
and a sympathy with the loneliness which the stranger sometimes feels. A school-teacher leading
her troop of merry children on their morning walk around the bastion, nodded to us pleasantly
and forthwith the whole company of chubby-cheeked rogues, looking up at us with a pleasant
archness, lisped a "guten morgen" that made the hearts glad within us. I know of nothing that
has given me a more sweet and tender delight than the greeting of a little child, who, leaving
his noisy playmates, ran across the street to me, and taking my hand, which he could barely
clasp in both his soft little ones, looked up in my face with an expression so winning and
affectionate, that I loved him at once. The happy, honest farmers, too, spoke to us cheerfully
everywhere. We learned a lesson from all this--we felt that not a word of kindness is ever
wasted, that a simple friendly glance may cheer the spirit and warm the lonely heart, and that
the slightest deed, prompted by generous sympathy, becomes a living joy in the memory of the
receiver, which blesses unceasingly him who bestowed it.

We left Zurich the same afternoon, to walk to Stafa, where we were told the poet Freiligrath
resided. The road led along the bank of the lake, whose shores sloped gently up from the water,
covered with gardens and farm-houses, which, with the bolder mountains that rose behind them,
made a combination of the lovely and grand, on which the eye rested with rapture and delight.
The sweetest cottages were embowered among the orchards, and the whole country bloomed like
a garden. The waters of the lake are of a pale, transparent green, and so clear that we could
see its bottom of white pebbles, for some distance. Here and there floated a quiet boat on
its surface. The opposite hills were covered with a soft blue haze, and white villages sat
along the shore, "like swans among the reeds." Behind, we saw the woody range of the Brunig
Alp. The people bade us a pleasant good evening; there was a universal air of cheerfulness
and content on their countenances.

Towards evening, the clouds which hung in the south the whole day, dispersed a little and we
could see the Dodiberg and the Alps of Glarus. As sunset drew on, the broad summits of snow
and the clouds which were rolled around them, assumed a soft rosy hue, which increased in brilliancy
as the light of day faded. The rough, icy crags and snowy steeps were fused in the warm light
and half blended with the bright clouds. This blaze, as it were, of the mountains at sunset,
is called the Alp-glow, and exceeds all one's highest conceptions of Alpine grandeur. We watched
the fading glory till it quite died away, and the summits wore a livid, ashy hue, like the
mountains of a world wherein there was no life. In a few minutes more the dusk of twilight
spread over the scene, the boatmen glided home over the still lake and the herdsmen drove their
cattle back from pasture on the slopes and meadows.

On inquiring for Freiligrath at Stafa, we found he had removed to Rapperschwyl, some distance
further. As it was already late, we waited for the steamboat which leaves Zurich every evening.
It came along about eight o'clock, and a little boat carried us out through rain and darkness
to meet it, as it came like a fiery-eyed monster over the water. We stepped on board the "Republican,"
and in half an hour were brought to the wharf at Rapperschwyl.

There are two small islands in the lake, one of which, with a little chapel rising from among
its green trees, is Ufnau, the grave of Ulrich von Hutten, one of the fathers of the German
Reformation. His fiery poems have been the source from which many a German bard has derived
his inspiration, and Freiligrath who now lives in sight of his tomb, has published an indignant
poem, because an inn with gaming tables has been established in the ruins of the castle near
Creuznach, where Hutten found refuge from his enemies with Franz von Sickingen, brother-in-law
of "Goetz with the iron Hand." The monks of Einsiedeln, to whom Ufnau belongs, have carefully
obliterated all traces of his grave, so that the exact spot is not known, in order that even
a tombstone might be denied him who once strove to overturn their order. It matters little
to that bold spirit whose motto was: "The die is cast--I have dared it!"--the whole island
is his monument, if he need one.

I spent the whole of the morning with Freiligrath, the poet, who was lately banished from Germany
on account of the liberal principles his last volume contains. He lives in a pleasant country-house
on the Meyerberg, an eminence near Rapperschwyl, overlooking a glorious prospect. On leaving
Frankfort, R.S. Willis gave me a letter to him, and I was glad to meet with a man personally
whom I admired so much through his writings, and whose boldness in speaking out against the
tyranny which his country suffers, forms such a noble contrast to the cautious slowness of
his countrymen. He received me kindly and conversed much upon American literature. He is a
warm admirer of Bryant and Longfellow, and has translated many of their poems into German.
He said he had received a warm invitation from a colony of Germans in Wisconsin, to join them
and enjoy that freedom which his native land denies, but that his circumstances would not allow
it at present. He is perhaps thirty-five years of age. His brow is high and noble, and his
eyes, which are large and of a clear gray, beam with serious, saddened thought. His long chesnut
hair, uniting with a handsome beard and moustache, gives a lion-like dignity to his energetic
countenance. His talented wife, Ida Freiligrath, who shares his literary labors, and an amiable
sister, are with him in exile, and he is happier in their faithfulness than when he enjoyed
the favors of a corrupt king.

We crossed the long bridge from Rapperschwyl, and took the road over the mountain opposite,
ascending for nearly two hours along the side, with glorious views of the Lake of Zurich and
the mountains which enclose it. The upper and lower ends of the lake were completely hid by
the storms, which, to our regret, veiled the Alps, but the part below lay spread out dim and
grand, like a vast picture. It rained almost constantly, and we were obliged occasionally to
take shelter in the pine forests, whenever a heavier cloud passed over. The road was lined
with beggars, who dropped on their knees in the rain before us, or placed bars across the way,
and then took them down again, for which they demanded money.

At length we reached the top of the pass. Many pilgrims to Einsiedeln had stopped at a little
inn there, some of whom came a long distance to pay their vows, especially as the next day
was the Ascension day of the Virgin, whose image there is noted for performing many miracles.
Passing on, we crossed a wild torrent by an arch called the "Devil's Bridge." The lofty, elevated
plains were covered with scanty patches of grain and potatoes, and the boys tended their goats
on the grassy slopes, sometimes trilling or yodling an Alpine melody. An hour's walk brought
us to Einsiedeln, a small town, whose only attraction is the Abbey--after Loretto, in Italy,
the most celebrated resort for pilgrims in Europe.

We entered immediately into the great church. The gorgeous vaulted roof and long aisles were
dim with the early evening; hundreds of worshippers sat around the sides, or kneeled in groups
on the broad stone pavements, chanting over their Paternosters and Ave Marias in a shrill,
monotonous tone, while the holy image near the entrance was surrounded by persons, many of
whom came in the hope of being healed of some disorder under which they suffered. I could not
distinctly make out the image, for it was placed back within the grating, and a strong crimson
lamp behind it was made to throw the light around, in the form of a glory. Many of the pilgrims
came a long distance. I saw some in the costume of the Black Forest, and others who appeared
to be natives of the Italian Cantons; and a group of young women wearing conical fur caps,
from the forests of Bregenz, on the Lake of Constance.

I was astonished at the splendor of this church, situated in a lonely and unproductive Alpine
valley. The lofty arches of the ceiling, which are covered with superb fresco paintings, rest
on enormous pillars of granite, and every image and shrine is richly ornamented with gold.
Some of the chapels were filled with the remains of martyrs, and these were always surrounded
with throngs of believers. The choir was closed by a tall iron grating; a single lamp, which
swung from the roof, enabled me to see through the darkness, that though much more rich in
ornaments than the body of the church, it was less grand and impressive. The frescoes which
cover the ceiling, are said to be the finest paintings of the kind in Switzerland.

In the morning our starting was delayed by the rain, and we took advantage of it to hear mass
in the Abbey and enjoy the heavenly music. The latter was of the loftiest kind; there was one
voice among the singers I shall not soon forget. It was like the warble of a bird who sings
out of very wantonness. On and on it sounded, making its clear, radiant sweetness heard above
the chant of the choir and the thunder of the orchestra. Such a rich, varied and untiring strain
of melody I have rarely listened to.

When the service ceased, we took a small road leading to Schwytz. We had now fairly entered
the Alpine region, and our first task was to cross a mountain. This having been done, we kept
along the back of the ridge which bounds the lake of Zug on the south, terminating in the well
known Rossberg. The scenery became wilder with every step. The luxuriant fields of herbage
on the mountains were spotted with the picturesque chalets of the hunters and Alp-herds; cattle
and goats were browsing along the declivities, their bells tinkling most musically, and the
little streams fell in foam down the steeps. We here began to realize our anticipations of
Swiss scenery. Just on the other side of the range, along which we traveled, lay the little
lake of Egeri and valley of Morgarten, where Tell and his followers overcame the army of the
German Emperor; near the lake of Lowertz, we found a chapel by the roadside, built on the spot
where the house of Werner Stauffacher, one of the "three men of Grütli," formerly stood. It
bears a poetical inscription in old German, and a rude painting of the Battle of Morgarten.

As we wound around the lake of Lowertz, we saw the valley lying between the Rossberg and the
Righi, which latter mountain stood full in view. To our regret, and that of all other travelers,
the clouds hung low upon it, as they had done for a week at least, and there was no prospect
of a change. The Rossberg, from which we descended, is about four thousand feet in height;
a dark brown stripe from its very summit to the valley below, shows the track of the avalanche
which, in 1806, overwhelmed Goldau, and laid waste the beautiful vale of Lowertz. We could
trace the masses of rock and earth as far as the foot of the Righi. Four hundred and fifty
persons perished by this catastrophe, which was so sudden that in five minutes the whole lovely
valley was transformed into a desolate wilderness. The shock was so great that the lake of
Lowertz overflowed its banks, and part of the village of Steinen at the upper end was destroyed
by the waters.

An hour's walk through a blooming Alpine vale brought us to the little town of Schwytz, the
capital of the Canton. It stands at the foot of a rock-mountain, in shape not unlike Gibraltar,
but double its height. The bare and rugged summits seem to hang directly over the town, but
the people dwell below without fear, although the warning ruins of Goldau are full in sight.
A narrow blue line at the end of the valley which stretches westward, marks the lake of the
Four Cantons. Down this valley we hurried, that we might not miss the boat which plies daily,
from Luzerne to Fluelen. I regretted not being able to visit Luzerne, as I had a letter to
the distinguished Swiss composer, Schnyder von Wartensee, who resides there at present. The
place is said to present a most desolate appearance, being avoided by travelers, and even by
artisans, so that business of all kinds has almost entirely ceased.

At the little town of Brunnen, on the lake, we awaited the coming of the steamboat. The scenery
around it is exceedingly grand. Looking down towards Luzerne, we could see the dark mass of
Mount Pilatus on one side, and on the other the graceful outline of the Righi, still wearing
his hood of clouds. We put off in a skiff to meet the boat, with two Capuchin friars in long
brown mantles and cowls, carrying rosaries at their girdles.

Nearly opposite Brunnen is the meadow of Grütli, where the union of the Swiss patriots took
place, and the bond was sealed that enabled them to cast off their chains. It is a little green
slope on the side of the mountain, between the two Cantons of Uri and Unterwalden, surrounded
on all sides by precipices. A little crystal spring in the centre is believed by the common
people to have gushed up on the spot where the three "linked the hands that made them free."
It is also a popular belief that they slumber in a rocky cavern near the spot, and that they
will arise and come forth when the liberties of Switzerland are in danger. She stands at present
greatly in need of a new triad to restore the ancient harmony.

We passed this glorious scene, almost the only green spot on the bleak mountain-side, and swept
around the base of the Axenberg, at whose foot, in a rocky cave, stands the chapel of William
Tell. This is built on the spot where he leaped from Gessler's boat during the storm. It sits
at the base of the rock, on the water's edge, and can be seen far over the waves. The Alps,
whose eternal snows are lifted dazzling to the sky, complete the grandeur of a scene so hallowed
by the footsteps of freedom. The grand and lonely solemnity of the landscape impressed me with
an awe, like that one feels when standing in a mighty cathedral, when the aisles are dim with
twilight. And how full of interest to a citizen of young and free America is a shrine where
the votaries of Liberty have turned to gather strength and courage, through the storms and
convulsions of five hundred years!

We stopped at the village of Fluelen, at the head of the lake, and walked on to Altorf, a distance
of half a league. Here, in the market-place, is a tower said to be built on the spot where
the linden tree stood, under which the child of Tell was placed, while, about a hundred yards
distant, is a fountain with Tell's statue, on the spot from whence he shot the apple. If these
localities are correct, he must indeed have been master of the cross-bow. The tower is covered
with rude paintings of the principal events in the history of Swiss liberty. I viewed these
scenes with double interest from having read Schiller's "Wilhelm Tell," one of the most splendid
tragedies ever written. The beautiful reply of his boy, when he described to him the condition
of the "land where there are no mountains," was sounding in my ears during the whole day's journey:

    "Father, I'd feel oppressed in that broad land,
    I'd rather dwell beneath the avalanche!"

The little village of Burglen, whose spire we saw above the forest, in a glen near by, was
the birth-place of Tell, and the place where his dwelling stood, is now marked by a small chapel.
In the Schachen, a noisy mountain stream that comes down to join the Reuss, he was drowned,
when an old man, in attempting to rescue a child who had fallen in--a death worthy of the hero!
We bestowed a blessing on his memory in passing, and then followed the banks of the rapid Reuss.
Twilight was gathering in the deep Alpine glen, and the mountains on each side, half-seen through
the mist, looked like vast, awful phantoms. Soon they darkened to black, indistinct masses;
all was silent except the deepened roar of the falling floods; dark clouds brooded above us
like the outspread wings of night, and we were glad, when the little village of Amstegg was
reached, and the parlor of the inn opened to us a more cheerful, if not so romantic scene.

CHAPTER XXX.

PASSAGE OF THE ST. GOTHARD AND DESCENT INTO ITALY.

Leaving Amstegg, I passed the whole day among snowy, sky-piercing Alps, torrents, chasms and
clouds! The clouds appeared to be breaking up as we set out, and the white top of the Reassberg
was now and then visible in the sky. Just above the village are the remains of Zwing Uri, the
castle begun by the tyrant Gessler, for the complete subjugation of the canton. Following the
Reuss up through a narrow valley, we passed the Bristenstock, which lifts its jagged crags
nine thousand feet in the air, while on the other side stand the snowy summits which lean towards
the Rhone Glacier and St. Gothard. From the deep glen where the Reuss foamed down towards the
Lake of the Forest Cantons, the mountains rose with a majestic sweep so far into the sky that
the brain grew almost dizzy in following their outlines. Woods, chalets and slopes of herbage
covered their bases, where the mountain cattle and goats were browsing, while the herd-boys
sang their native melodies or woke the ringing echoes with the loud, sweet sounds of their
wooden horns; higher up, the sides were broken into crags and covered with stunted pines; then
succeeded a belt of bare rock with a little snow lying in the crevices, and the summits of
dazzling white looked out from the clouds nearly three-fourths the height of the zenith. Sometimes
when the vale was filled with clouds, it was startling to see them parting around a solitary
summit, apparently isolated in the air at an immense height, for the mountain to which it belonged
was hidden to the very base!

The road passed from one side of the valley to the other, crossing the Reuss on bridges sometimes
ninety feet high. After three or four hours walking, we reached a frightful pass called the
Schollenen. So narrow is the defile that before reaching it, the road seemed to enter directly
into the mountain. Precipices a thousand feet high tower above, and the stream roars and boils
in the black depth below. The road is a wonder of art; it winds around the edge of horrible
chasms or is carried on lofty arches across, with sometimes a hold apparently so frail that
one involuntarily shudders. At a place called the Devil's Bridge, the Reuss leaps about seventy
feet in three or four cascades, sending up continually a cloud of spray, while a wind created
by the fall, blows and whirls around, with a force that nearly lifts one from his feet. Wordsworth
has described the scene in the following lines:

    "Plunge with the Reuss embrowned by terror's breath,
    Where danger roofs the narrow walks of Death;
    By floods that, thundering from their dizzy height,
    Swell more gigantic on the steadfast sight,
    Black, drizzling crags, that, beaten by the din,
    Vibrate, us if a voice complained within,
    Loose hanging rocks, the Day's blessed eye that hide,
    And crosses reared to Death on every side!"

Beyond the Devil's Bridge, the mountains which nearly touched before, interlock into each other,
and a tunnel three hundred and seventy-five feet long leads through the rock into the vale
of Urseren, surrounded by the Upper Alps. The little town of Andermatt lies in the middle of
this valley, which with the peaks around is covered with short, yellowish-brown grass. We met
near Amstegg a little Italian boy walking home, from Germany, quite alone and without money,
for we saw him give his last kreutzer to a blind beggar along the road. We therefore took him
with us, as he was afraid to cross the St. Gothard alone.

After refreshing ourselves at Andermatt, we started, five in number, including a German student,
for the St. Gothard. Behind the village of Hospiz, which stands at the bottom of the valley
leading to Realp and the Furca pass, the way commences, winding backwards and forwards, higher
and higher, through a valley covered with rocks, with the mighty summits of the Alps around,
untenanted save by the chamois and mountain eagle. Not a tree was to be seen. The sides of
the mountains were covered with loose rocks waiting for the next torrent to wash them down,
and the tops were robed in eternal snow. A thick cloud rolled down over us as we went on, following
the diminishing brooks to their snowy source in the peak of St. Gothard. We cut off the bends
of the road by footpaths up the rocks, which we ascended in single file, one of the Americans
going ahead and little Pietro with his staff and bundle bringing up the rear. The rarefied
air we breathed, seven thousand feet above the sea, was like exhilarating gas. We felt no fatigue,
but ran and shouted and threw snowballs, in the middle of August!

After three hours' walk we reached the two clear and silent lakes which send their waters to
the Adriatic and the North Sea. Here, as we looked down the Italian side, the sky became clear;
we saw the top of St. Gothard many thousand feet above, and stretching to the south, the summits
of the mountains which guard the vales of the Ticino and the Adda. The former monastery has
been turned into an inn; there is, however, a kind of church attached, attended by a single
monk. It was so cold that although late, we determined to descend to the first village. The
Italian side is very steep, and the road, called the Via Trimola, is like a thread dropped
down and constantly doubling back upon itself. The deep chasms were filled with snow, although
exposed to the full force of the sun, and for a long distance there was scarcely a sign of
vegetation.

We thought as we went down, that every step was bringing us nearer to a sunnier land--that
the glories of Italy, which had so long lain in the airy background of the future, would soon
spread themselves before us in their real or imagined beauty. Reaching at dusk the last height
above the vale of the Ticino, we saw the little village of Airolo with its musical name, lying
in a hollow of the mountains. A few minutes of leaping, sliding and rolling, took us down the
grassy declivity, and we found we had descended from the top in an hour and a half, although
the distance by the road is nine miles! I need not say how glad we were to relieve our trembling
knees and exhausted limbs.

I have endeavored several times to give some idea of the sublimity of the Alps, but words seem
almost powerless to measure these mighty mountains. No effort of the imagination could possibly
equal their real grandeur. I wish also to describe the feelings inspired by being among them,--feelings
which can best be expressed through the warmer medium of poetry.

    SONG OF THE ALP.
    I.

    I sit aloft on my thunder throne,
    And my voice of dread the nations own
       As I speak in storm below!
    The valleys quake with a breathless fear,
    When I hurl in wrath my icy spear
       And shake my locks of snow!
    When the avalanche forth like a tiger leaps,
      How the vassal-mountains quiver!
    And the storm that sweeps through the airy deeps
      Makes the hoary pine-wood shiver!
    Above them all, in a brighter air,
    I lift my forehead proud and bare,
    And the lengthened sweep of my forest-robe
    Trails down to the low and captured globe,
    Till its borders touch the dark green wave
    In whose soundless depths my feet I lave.
    The winds, unprisoned, around me blow,
    And terrible tempests whirl the snow;
    Rocks from their caverned beds are torn,
    And the blasted forest to heaven is borne;
    High through the din of the stormy band,
    Like misty giants the mountains stand,
    And their thunder-revel o'er-sounds the woe,
    That cries from the desolate vales below!
    I part the clouds with my lifted crown,
    Till the sun-ray slants on the glaciers down,
    And trembling men, in the valleys pale,
    Rejoice at the gleam of my icy mail!

    II.

    I wear a crown of the sunbeam's gold,
    With glacier-gems en my forehead old--
       A monarch crowned by God!
    What son of the servile earth may dare
    Such signs of a regal power to wear,
       While chained to her darkened sod?
    I know of a nobler and grander lore
      Than Time records on his crumbling pages,
    And the soul of my solitude teaches more
      Than the gathered deeds of perished ages!
    For I have ruled since Time began
    And wear no fetter made by man.
    I scorn the coward and craven race
    Who dwell around my mighty base,
    For they leave the lessons I grandly gave
    And bend to the yoke of the crouching slave.
    I shout aloud to the chainless skies;
    The stream through its falling foam replies,
    And my voice, like the sound of the surging sea,
    To the nations thunders: "I am free!"
    I spoke to Tell when a tyrant's hand
    Lay heavy and hard on his native land,
    And the spirit whose glory from mine he won
    Blessed the Alpine dwellers with Freedom's sun!
    The student-boy on the Gmunden-plain
    Heard my solemn voice, but he fought in vain;
    I called from the crags of the Passeir-glen,
    When the despot stood in my realm again,
    And Hofer sprang at the proud command
    And roused the men of the Tyrol land!

    III.

    I struggle up to the dim blue heaven,
    From the world, far down in whose breast are driven
        The props of my pillared throne;
    And the rosy fires of morning glow
    Like a glorious thought, on my brow of snow,
        While the vales are dark and lone!
    Ere twilight summons the first faint star,
    I seem to the nations who dwell afar
    Like a shadowy cloud, whose every fold
    The sunset dyes with its purest gold,
    And the soul mounts up through that gateway fair
    To try its wings in a loftier air!
    The finger of God on my brow is pressed--
    His spirit beats in my giant breast,
    And I breathe, as the endless ages roll,
    His silent words to the eager soul!
    I prompt the thoughts of the mighty mind,
    Who leaves his century far behind
    And speaks from the Future's sun-lit snow
    To the Present, that sleeps in its gloom below!
    I stand, unchanged, in creation's youth--
    A glorious type of Eternal Truth,
    That, free and pure, from its native skies
    Shines through Oppression's veil of lies,
    And lights the world's long-fettered sod
    With thoughts of Freedom and of God!

When, at night, I looked out of my chamber-window, the silver moon of Italy, (for we fancied
that her light was softer and that the skies were already bluer) hung trembling above the fields
of snow that stretched in their wintry brilliance along the mountains around. I heard the roar
of the Ticino and the deepened sound of falling cascades, and thought, if I were to take those
waters for my guide, to what glorious places they would lead me!

We left Airolo early the next morning, to continue our journey down the valley of the Ticino.
The mists and clouds of Switzerland were exchanged for a sky of the purest blue, and we felt,
for the first time in ten days, uncomfortably warm. The mountains which flank the Alps on this
side, are still giants--lofty and bare, and covered with snow in many places. The limit of
the German dialect is on the summit of St. Gothard, and the peasants saluted us with a "buon
giorno" as they passed. This, with the clearness of the skies and the warmth of the air, made
us feel that Italy was growing nearer.

The mountains are covered with forests of dark pine, and many beautiful cascades come tumbling
over the rocks in their haste to join the Ticino. One of these was so strangely beautiful,
that I cannot pass it without a particular description. We saw it soon after leaving Airolo,
on the opposite side of the valley. A stream of considerable size comes down the mountain,
leaping from crag to crag till within forty or fifty feet of the bottom, where it is caught
in a hollow rock, and flung upwards into the air, forming a beautiful arch as it falls out
into the valley. As it is whirled up thus, feathery curls of spray are constantly driven off
and seem to wave round it like the fibres on an ostrich plume. The sun shining through, gave
it a sparry brilliance which was perfectly magnificent. If I were an artist, I would give much
for such a new form of beauty.

On our first day's journey we passed through two terrific mountain gorges, almost equalling
in grandeur the defile of the "Devil's Bridge." The Ticino, in its course to Lago Maggiore
has to make a descent of nearly three thousand feet, passing through three valleys, which lie
like terraces, one below the other. In its course from one to the other, it has to force its
way down in twenty cataracts through a cleft in the mountains. The road, constructed with the
utmost labor, threads these dark chasms, sometimes carried in a tunnel through the rock, sometimes
passing on arches above the boiling flood. The precipices of bare rock rise far above and render
the way difficult and dangerous. I here noticed another very beautiful effect of the water,
perhaps attributable to some mineral substance it contained. The spray and foam thrown up in
the dashing of the vexed current, was of a light, delicate pink, although the stream itself
was a soft blue; and the contrast of these two colors was very remarkable.

As we kept on, however, there was a very perceptible change in the scenery. The gloomy pines
disappeared and the mountains were covered, in their stead, with picturesque chesnut trees,
with leaves of a shining green. The grass and vegetation was much more luxuriant than on the
other side of the Alps, and fields of maize and mulberry orchards covered the valley. We saw
the people busy at work reeling silk in the villages. Every mile we advanced made a sensible
change in the vegetation. The chesnuts were larger, the maize higher, the few straggling grape-vines
increased into bowers and vineyards, while the gardens were filled with plum, pear and fig-trees,
and the stands of delicious fruit which we saw in the villages, gave us promise of the luxuriance
that was to come.

The vineyards are much more beautiful than the German fields of stakes. The vines are not trimmed,
but grow from year to year over a frame higher than the head, supported through the whole field
on stone pillars. They interlace and form a complete leafy screen, while the clusters hang
below. The light came dimly through the green, transparent leaves, and nothing was wanting
to make them real bowers of Arcadia. Although we were still in Switzerland, the people began
to have that lazy, indolent look which characterizes the Italians; most of the occupations
were carried on in the open air, and brown-robed, sandalled friars were going about from house
to house, collecting money and provisions for their support.

We passed Faidò and Giornico, near which last village are the remains of an old castle, supposed
to have been built by the ancient Gauls, and stopped for the night at Cresciano, which being
entirely Italian, we had an opportunity to put in practice the few words we had picked up from
Pietro. The little fellow parted from us with regret a few hours before, at Biasco, where he
had relations. The rustic landlord at Cresciano was an honest young fellow, who tried to serve
us as well as he could, but we made some ludicrous mistakes through our ignorance of the language.

Three hours' walk brought us to Bellinzona, the capital of the canton. Before reaching it,
our road joined that of the Splügen which comes down through the valley of Bernardino. From
the bridge where the junction takes place we had a triple view, whose grandeur took me by surprise,
even after coming from Switzerland. We stood at the union of three valleys--that leading to
St. Gothard, terminated by the glaciers of the Bernese Oberland, that running off obliquely
to the Splügen, and finally the broad vale of the Ticino, extending to Lago Maggiore, whose
purple mountains closed the vista. Each valley was perhaps two miles broad and from twenty
to thirty long, and the mountains that enclosed them from five to seven thousand feet in height,
so you may perhaps form some idea what a view down three such avenues in this Alpine temple
would be. Bellinzona is romantically situated, on a slight eminence, with three castles to
defend it, with those square turreted towers and battlements, which remind one involuntarily
of the days of the Goths and Vandals.

We left Bellinzona at noon, and saw, soon after, from an eminence, the blue line of Lago Maggiore
stretched across the bottom of the valley. We saw sunset fade away over the lake, but it was
clouded, and did not realize my ideal of such a scene in Italy. A band of wild Italians paraded
up and down the village, drawing one of their number in a hand-cart. They made a great noise
with a drum and trumpet, and were received everywhere with shouts of laughter. A great jug
of wine was not wanting, and the whole seemed to me a very characteristic scene.

We were early awakened at Magadino, at the head of Lago Maggiore, and after swallowing a hasty
breakfast, went on board the steamboat "San Carlo," for Sesto Calende. We got under way at
six o'clock, and were soon in motion over the crystal mirror. The water is of the most lovely
green hue, and so transparent that we seemed to bo floating in mid-air. Another heaven arched
far below us; other chains of mountains joined their bases to those which surrounded the lake,
and the mirrored cascades leaped upward to meet their originals at the surface. It may be because
I have seen it more recently, that the water of Lago Maggiore appears to be the most beautiful
in the world. I was delighted with the Scotch lakes, and enraptured with the Traunsee and "Zurich's
waters," but this last exceeds them both. I am now incapable of any stronger feeling, until
I see the Egean from the Grecian Isles.

The morning was cloudy, and the white wreaths hung low on the mountains, whose rocky sides
were covered every where with the rank and luxuriant growth of this climate. As we advanced
further over this glorious mirror, the houses became more Italian-like; the lower stories rested
on arched passages, and the windows were open, without glass, while in the gardens stood the
solemn, graceful cypress, and vines, heavy with ripening grapes, hung from bough to bough through
the mulberry orchards. Half-way down, in a broad bay, which receives the waters of a stream
that comes down with the Simplon, are the celebrated Borromean Islands. They are four in number,
and seem to float like fairy creations on the water, while the lofty hills form a background
whose grandeur enhances by contrast their exquisite beauty. There was something in the scene
that reminded me of Claude Melnotte's description of his home, by Bulwer, and like the lady
of Lyons, I answer readily, "I like the picture."

On passing by Isola Madre, we could see the roses in its terraced gardens and the broad-leaved
aloes clinging to the rocks. Isola Bella, the loveliest of them all, as its name denotes, was
farther off; it rose like a pyramid from the water, terrace above terrace to the summit, and
its gardens of never fading foliage, with the glorious panorama around, might make it a paradise,
if life were to be dreamed away. On the northern side of the bay lies a large town (I forget
its name,) with a lofty Romanesque tower, and noble mountains sweep around as if to shut out
the world from such a scene. The sea was perfectly calm, and groves and gardens slept mirrored
in the dark green wave, while the Alps rose afar through the dim, cloudy air. Towards the other
end the hills sink lower, and slope off into the plains of Lombardy. Near Arona, on the western
side, is a large monastery, overlooking the lower part of the lake. Beside it, on a hill, is
a colossal statue of San Carlo Borromeo, who gave his name to the lovely islands above.

After a seven hours' passage, we ran into Sesto Calende, at the foot of the lake. Here, passengers
and baggage were tumbled promiscuously on shore, the latter gathered into the office to be
examined, and the former left at liberty to ramble about an hour until their passports could
be signed. We employed the time in trying the flavor of the grapes and peaches of Lombardy,
and looking at the groups of travelers who had come down from the Alps with the annual avalanche
at this season. The custom house officers were extremely civil and obliging, as they did not
think necessary to examine our knapsacks, and our passports being soon signed, we were at liberty
to enter again into the dominions of His Majesty of Austria. Our companion, the German, whose
feet could carry him no further, took a seat on the top of a diligence for Milan; we left Sesto
Calende on foot, and plunged into the cloud of dust which was whirling towards the capital
of Northern Italy.

Being now really in the "sunny land," we looked on the scenery with a deep interest. The first
thing that struck me was a resemblance to America in the fields of Indian corn, and the rank
growth of weeds by the roadside. The mulberry trees and hedges, too, looked quite familiar,
coming as we did, from fenceless and hedgeless Germany. But here the resemblance ceased. The
people were coarse, ignorant and savage-looking, the villages remarkable for nothing except
the contrast between splendid churches and miserable, dirty houses, while the luxurious palaces
and grounds of the rich noblemen formed a still greater contrast to the poverty of the people.
I noticed also that if the latter are as lazy as they are said to be, they make their horses
work for them, as in a walk of a few hours yesterday after noon, we saw two horses drawing
heavy loads, drop down apparently dead, and several others seemed nearly ready to do the same.

We spent the night at the little village of Casina, about sixteen miles from Milan, and here
made our first experience in the honesty of Italian inns. We had taken the precaution to inquire
beforehand the price of a bed; but it seemed unnecessary and unpleasant, as well as evincing
a mistrustful spirit, to do the same with every article we asked for, so we concluded to leave
it to the host's conscience not to overcharge us. Imagine our astonishment, however, when at
starting, a bill was presented to us, in which the smallest articles were set down at three
or four times their value. We remonstrated, hut to little purpose; the fellow knew scarcely
any French, and we as little Italian, so rather than lose time or temper, we paid what he demanded
and went on, leaving him to laugh at the successful imposition. The experience was of value
to us, however, and it may serve as a warning to some future traveler.

About noon, the road turned into a broad and beautiful avenue of poplars, down which we saw,
at a distance, the triumphal arch terminating the Simplon road, which we had followed from
Sesto Calende. Beyond it rose the slight and airy pinnacle of the Duomo. We passed by the exquisite
structure, gave up our passports at the gates, traversed the broad Piazza d'Armi, and found
ourselves at liberty to choose one of the dozen streets that led into the heart of the city.

CHAPTER XXXI.

MILAN.

Aug. 21.--While finding our way at random to the "Pension Suisse," whither we had been directed
by a German gentleman, we were agreeably impressed with the gaiety and bustle of Milan. The
shops and stores are all open to the street, so that the city resembles a great bazaar. It
has an odd look to see blacksmiths, tailors and shoemakers working unconcernedly in the open
air, with crowds continually passing before them. The streets are filled with venders of fruit,
who call out the names with a long, distressing cry, like that of a person in great agony.
Organ-grinders parade constantly about and snatches of songs are heard among the gay crowd,
on every side.

In this lively, noisy Italian city, nearly all there is to see may be comprised in four things:
the Duomo, the triumphal arch over the Simplon, La Scala and the Picture Gallery. The first
alone is more interesting than many an entire city. We went there yesterday afternoon soon
after reaching here. It stands in an irregular open place, closely hemmed in by houses on two
sides, so that it can be seen to advantage from only one point. It is a mixture of the Gothic
and Romanesque styles; the body of the structure is entirely covered with statues and richly
wrought sculpture, with needle-like spires of white marble rising up from every corner. But
of the exquisite, airy look of the whole mass, although so solid and vast, it is impossible
to convey an idea. It appears like some fabric of frost-work which winter traces on the window-panes.
There is a unity of beauty about the whole, which the eye takes in with a feeling of perfect
and satisfied delight.

Ascending the marble steps which lead to the front, I lifted the folds of the heavy curtain
and entered. What a glorious aisle! The mighty pillars support a magnificent arched ceiling,
painted to resemble fretwork, and the little light that falls through the small windows above,
enters tinged with a dim golden hue. A feeling of solemn awe comes over one as he steps with
a hushed tread along the colored marble floor, and measures the massive columns till they blend
with the gorgeous arches above. There are four rows of these, nearly fifty in all, and when
I state that they are eight feet in diameter, and sixty or seventy in height, some idea may
be formed of the grandeur of the building. Imagine the Girard College, at Philadelphia, turned
into one great hall, with four rows of pillars, equal in size to those around it, reaching
to its roof, and you will have a rough sketch of the interior of the Duomo.

In the centre of the cross is a light and beautiful dome; he who will stand under this, and
look down the broad middle aisle to the entrance, has one of the sublimest vistas to be found
in the world. The choir has three enormous windows, covered with dazzling paintings, and the
ceiling is of marble and silver. There are gratings under the high altar, by looking into which,
I could see a dark, lonely chamber below, where one or two feeble lamps showed a circle of
praying-places. It was probably a funeral vault, which persons visited to pray for the repose
of their friends' souls. The Duomo is not yet entirely finished, the workmen being still employed
in various parts, but it is said, that when completed there will be four thousand statues on
the different parts of it.

The design of the Duomo is said to be taken from Monte Rosa, one of the loftiest peaks of the
Alps. Its hundreds of sculptured pinnacles, rising from every part of the body of the church,
certainly bear a striking resemblance to the splintered ice-crags of Savoy. Thus we see how
Art, mighty and endless in her forms though she be, is in every thing but the child of Nature.
Her most divine conceptions are but copies of objects which we behold every day. The faultless
beauty of the Corinthian capital--the springing and intermingling arches of the Gothic aisle--the
pillared portico or the massive and sky-piercing pyramid--are but attempts at reproducing,
by the studied regularity of Art, the ever-varied and ever-beautiful forms of mountain, rock
and forest. But there is oftentimes a more thrilling sensation of enjoyment produced by the
creations of man's hand and intellect than the grander effects of Nature, existing constantly
before our eyes. It would seem as if man marvelled more at his own work than at the work of
the Power which created him.

The streets of Milan abound with priests in their cocked hats and long black robes. They all
have the same solemn air, and seem to go about like beings shut out from all communion with
pleasure. No sight lately has saddened me so much as to see a bright, beautiful boy, of twelve
or thirteen years, in those gloomy garments. Poor child! he little knows now what he may have
to endure. A lonely, cheerless life, where every affection must be crushed as unholy, and every
pleasure denied as a crime! And I knew by his fair brow and tender lip, that he had a warm
and loving heart. I could not help regarding this class as victims to a mistaken idea of religious
duty, and if I am not mistaken, I read on more than one countenance the traces of passions
that burned within. It is mournful to see a people oppressed in the name of religion. The holiest
aspirations of man's nature, instead of lifting him up to a nearer view of Christian perfection,
are changed into clouds and shut out the light of heaven. Immense treasures, wrung drop by
drop from the credulity of the poor and ignorant, are made use of to pamper the luxury of those
who profess to be mediators between man and the Deity. The poor wretch may perish of starvation
on a floor of precious mosaic, which perhaps his own pittance has helped to form, while ceilings
and shrines of inlaid gold mock his dying eye with their useless splendor. Such a system of
oppression, disguised under the holiest name, can only be sustained by the continuance of ignorance
and blind superstition. Knowledge--Truth--Reason--these are the ramparts which Liberty throws
up to guard her dominions from the usurpations of oppression and wrong.

We were last night in La Scala. Rossini's opera of William Tell was advertised, and as we had
visited so lately the scene where that glorious historical drama was enacted, we went to see
it represented in sound. It is a grand subject, which in the hands of a powerful composer,
might be made very effective, but I must confess I was disappointed in the present case. The
overture is, however, very beautiful. It begins low and mournful, like the lament of the Swiss
over their fallen liberties. Occasionally a low drum is heard, as if to rouse them to action,
and meanwhile the lament swells to a cry of despair. The drums now wake the land; the horn
of Uri is heard pealing forth its summoning strain, and the echoes seem to come back from the
distant Alps. The sound then changes for the roar of battle--the clang of trumpets, drums and
cymbals. The whole orchestra did their best to represent this combat in music, which after
lasting a short time, changed into the loud, victorious march of the conquerors. But the body
of the opera, although it had several fine passages, was to me devoid of interest; in fact,
unworthy the reputation of Rossini.

The theatre is perhaps the largest in the world. The singers are all good; in Italy it could
not be otherwise, where everybody sings. As I write, a party of Italians in the house opposite
have been amusing themselves with going through the whole opera of "La fille du Regiment,"
with the accompaniment of the piano, and they show the greatest readiness and correctness in
their performance. They have now become somewhat boisterous, and appear to be improvising.
One young gentleman executes trills with amazing skill, and another appears to have taken the
part of a despairing lover, but the lady has a very pretty voice, and warbles on and on, like
a nightingale. Occasionally a group of listeners in the street below clap them applause, for
as the windows are always open, the whole neighborhood can enjoy the performance.

This forenoon I was in the Picture Gallery. It occupies a part of the Library Building, in
the Palazzo Cabrera. It is not large, and many of the pictures are of no value to anybody but
antiquarians; still there are some excellent paintings, which render it well worthy a visit.
Among these, a marriage, by Raphael, is still in a very good state of preservation, and there
are some fine pictures by Paul Veronese and the Caracci. The most admired painting, is "Abraham
sending away Hagar," by Guercino. I never saw a more touching expression of grief than in the
face of Hagar. Her eyes are red with weeping, and as she listens in an agony of tears to the
patriarch's command, she still seems doubting the reality of her doom. The countenance of Abraham
is venerable and calm, and expresses little emotion; but one can read in that of Sarah, as
she turns away, a feeling of pity for her unfortunate rival.

Next to the Duomo, the most beautiful specimen of architecture in Milan is the ARCH OF PEACE,
on the north side of the city, at the commencement of the Simplon Road. It was the intention
of Napoleon to carry the road under this arch, across the Piazza d'Armi, and to cut a way for
it directly into the heart of the city, but the fall of his dynasty prevented the execution
of this magnificent design, as well as the completion of the arch itself. This has been done
by the Austrian government, according to the original plan; they have inscribed upon it the
name of Francis I., and changed the bas-reliefs of Lodi and Marengo into those of a few fields
where their forces had gained the victory. It is even said that in many parts which were already
finished, they altered the splendid Roman profile of Napoleon into the haggard and repulsive
features of Francis of Austria.

The bronze statues on the top were made by an artist of Bologna, by Napoleon's order, and are
said to be the finest works of modern times. In the centre is the goddess of Peace, in a triumphal
car, drawn by six horses, while on the corners four angels, mounted, are starting off to convey
the tidings to the four quarters of the globe. The artist has caught the spirit of motion and
chained it in these moveless figures. One would hardly feel surprised if the goddess, chariot,
horses and all, were to start off and roll away through the air.

With the rapidity usual to Americans we have already finished seeing Milan, and shall start
to-morrow morning on a walk to Genoa.

CHAPTER XXXII.

WALK FROM MILAN TO GENOA.

It was finally decided we should leave Milan, so the next morning we arose at five o'clock
for the first time since leaving Frankfort. The Italians had commenced operations at this early
hour, but we made our way through the streets without attracting quite so much attention as
on our arrival. Near the gate on the road to Pavia, we passed a long colonnade which was certainly
as old as the times of the Romans. The pillars of marble were quite brown with age, and bound
together with iron to keep them from falling to pieces. It was a striking contrast to see this
relic of the past standing in the middle of a crowded thoroughfare and surrounded by all the
brilliance and display of modern trade.

Once fairly out of the city we took the road to Pavia, along the banks of the canal, just as
the rising sun gilded the marble spire of the Duomo. The country was a perfect level, and the
canal, which was in many places higher than the land through which it passed, served also as
a means of irrigation for the many rice-fields. The sky grew cloudy and dark, and before we
reached Pavia gathered to a heavy storm. Torrents of rain poured down, accompanied with heavy
thunder; we crept under an old gateway for shelter, as no house was near. Finally, as it cleared
away, the square brown towers of the old city rose above the trees, and we entered the gate
through a fine shaded avenue. Our passports were of course demanded, but we were only detained
a minute or two. The only thing of interest is the University, formerly so celebrated; it has
at present about eight hundred students.

We have reason to remember the city from another circumstance--the singular attention we excited.
I doubt if Columbus was an object of greater curiosity to the simple natives of the new world,
than we three Americans were to the good people of Pavia. I know not what part of our dress
or appearance could have caused it, but we were watched like wild animals. If we happened to
pause and look at anything in the street, there was soon a crowd of attentive observers, and
as we passed on, every door and window was full of heads. We stopped in the marketplace to
purchase some bread and fruit for dinner, which increased, if possible, the sensation. We saw
eyes staring and fingers pointing at us from every door and alley. I am generally willing to
contribute as much as possible to the amusement or entertainment of others, but such attention
was absolutely embarrassing. There was nothing to do but to appear unconscious of it, and we
went along with as much nonchalance as if the whole town belonged to us.

We crossed the Ticino, on whose banks near Pavia, was fought the first great battle between
Hannibal and the Romans. On the other side our passports were demanded at the Sardinian frontier
and our knapsacks searched, which having proved satisfactory, we were allowed to enter the
kingdom. Late in the afternoon we reached the Po, which in winter must be quarter of a mile
wide, but the summer heats had dried it up to a small stream, so that the bridge of boats rested
nearly its whole length in sand. We sat on the bank in the shade, and looked at the chain of
hills which rose in the south, following the course of the Po, crowned with castles and villages
and shining towers. It was here that I first began to realize Italian scenery. Although the
hills were bare, they lay so warm and glowing in the sunshine, and the deep blue sky spread
so calmly above, that it recalled all my dreams of the fair clime we had entered.

We stopped for the night at the little village of Casteggio, which lies at the foot of the
hills, and next morning resumed our pilgrimage. Here a new delight awaited us. The sky was
of a heavenly blue, without even the shadow of a cloud, and full and fair in the morning sunshine
we could see the whole range of the Alps, from the blue hills of Friuli, which sweep down to
Venice and the Adriatic, to the lofty peaks which stretch away to Nice and Marseilles! Like
a summer cloud, except that they were far more dazzling and glorious, lay to the north of us
the glaciers and untrodden snow-fields of the Bernese Oberland; a little to the right we saw
the double peak of St. Gothard, where six days before we shivered in the region of eternal
winter, while far to the north-west rose the giant dome of Mount Blanc. Monte Rosa stood near
him, not far from the Great St. Bernard, and further to the south Mont Cenis guarded the entrance
from Piedmont into France. I leave you to conceive the majesty of such a scene, and you may
perhaps imagine, for I cannot describe the feelings with which I gazed upon it.

At Tortona, the next post, a great market was being held; the town was filled with country
people selling their produce, and with venders of wares of all kinds. Fruit was very abundant--grapes,
ripe figs, peaches and melons were abundant, and for a trifle one could purchase a sumptuous
banquet. On inquiring the road to Novi, the people made us understand, after much difficulty,
that there was a nearer way across the country, which came into the post-road again, and we
concluded to take it. After two or three hours' walking in a burning sun, where our only relief
was the sight of the Alps and a view of the battle-field of Marengo, which lay just on our
right, we came to a stand--the road terminated at a large stream, where workmen were busily
engaged in making a bridge across. We pulled off our boots and waded through, took a refreshing
bath in the clear waters, and walked on through by-lanes. The sides were lined with luxuriant
vines, bending under the ripening vintage, and we often cooled our thirst with some of the
rich bunches.

The large branch of the Po we crossed, came down from the mountains, which we were approaching.
As we reached the post-road again, they were glowing in the last rays of the sun, and the evening
vapors that settled over the plain concealed the distant Alps, although the snowy top of the
Jungfrau and her companions the Wetterhorn and Schreckhorn, rose above it like the hills of
another world. A castle or church of brilliant white marble glittered on the summit of one
of the mountains near us, and as the sun went down without a cloud, the distant summits changed
in hue to a glowing purple, amounting almost to crimson, which afterwards darkened into a deep
violet. The western half of the sky was of a pale orange, and the eastern a dark red, which
blended together in the blue of the zenith, that deepened as twilight came on. I know not if
it was a fair specimen of an Italian sunset, but I must say, without wishing to be partial,
that though certainly very soft and beautiful, there is no comparison with the splendor of
such a scene in America. The day-sky of Italy better deserves its reputation. Although no clearer
than our own, it is of a far brighter blue, arching above us like a dome of sapphire and seeming
to sparkle all over with a kind of crystal transparency.

We stopped the second night at Arquato, a little village among the mountains, and after having
bargained with the merry landlord for our lodgings, in broken Italian, took a last look at
the plains of Piedmont and the Swiss Alps, in the growing twilight. We gazed out on the darkening
scene till the sky was studded with stars, and went to rest with the exciting thought of seeing
Genoa and the Mediterranean on the morrow. Next morning we started early, and after walking
some distance made our breakfast in a grove of chesnuts, on the cool mountain side, beside
a fresh stream of water. The sky shone like a polished gem, and the glossy leaves of the chesnuts
gleamed in the morning sun. Here and there, on a rocky height, stood the remains of some knightly
castle, telling of the Goths and Normans who descended through these mountain passes to plunder
Rome.

As the sun grew high, the heat and dust became intolerable, and this, in connection with the
attention we raised everywhere, made us somewhat tired of foot-traveling in Italy. I verily
believe the people took us for pilgrims on account of our long white blouses, and had I a scallop
shell I would certainly have stuck it into my hat to complete the appearance. We stopped once
to ask a priest the road; when he had told us, he shook hands with us and gave us a parting
benediction. At the common inns, where we stopped, we always met with civil treatment, though,
indeed, as we only slept in them, there was little chance of practising imposition. We bought
our simple meals at the baker's and grocer's, and ate them in the shade of the grape-bowers,
whose rich clusters added to the repast. In this manner, we enjoyed Italy at the expense of
a franc, daily. About noon, after winding about through the narrow defiles, the road began
ascending. The reflected heat from the hills on each side made it like an oven; there was not
a breath of air stirring; but we all felt, although no one said it, that from the summit we
could see the Mediterranean, and we pushed on as if life or death depended on it. Finally,
the highest point came in sight--we redoubled our exertions, and a few minutes more brought
us to the top, breathless with fatigue and expectation. I glanced down the other side--there
lay a real sea of mountains, all around; the farthest peaks rose up afar and dim, crowned with
white towers, and between two of them which stood apart like the pillars of a gateway, we saw
the broad expanse of water stretching away to the horizon--

To where the blue of heaven on bluer waves shut down!"

It would have been a thrilling sight to see any ocean, when one has rambled thousands of miles
among the mountains and vales of the inland, but to behold this sea, of all others, was glorious
indeed! This sea, whose waves wash the feet of Naples, Constantinople and Alexandria, and break
on the hoary shores where Troy and Tyre and Carthage have mouldered away!--whose breast has
been furrowed by the keels of a hundred nations through more than forty centuries--from the
first rude voyage of Jason and his Argonauts, to the thunders of Navarino that heralded the
second birth of Greece! You cannot wonder we grew romantic; but short space was left for sentiment
in the burning sun, with Genoa to be reached before night. The mountain we crossed is called
the Bochetta, one of the loftiest of the sea-Alps (or Apennines)--the road winds steeply down
towards the sea, following a broad mountain rivulet, now perfectly dried up, as nearly every
stream among the mountains is. It was a long way to us; the mountains seemed as if they would
never unfold and let us out on the shore, and our weary limbs did penance enough for a multitude
of sins. The dusk was beginning to deepen over the bay and the purple hues of sunset were dying
away from its amphitheatre of hills, as we came in sight of the gorgeous city. Half the population
were out to celebrate a festival, and we made our entry in the triumphal procession of some saint.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

SCENES IN GENOA, LEGHORN AND PISA.

Have you ever seen some grand painting of a city, rising with its domes and towers and palaces
from the edge of a glorious bay, shut in by mountains--the whole scene clad in those deep,
delicious, sunny hues which you admire so much in the picture, although they appear unrealized
in Nature? If so, you can figure to yourself Genoa, as she looked to us at sunset, from the
battlements west of the city. When we had passed through the gloomy gate of the fortress that
guards the western promontory, the whole scene opened at once on us in all its majesty. It
looked to me less like a real landscape than a mighty panoramic painting. The battlements where
we were standing, and the blue mirror of the Mediterranean just below, with a few vessels moored
near the shore, made up the foreground; just in front lay the queenly city, stretching out
to the eastern point of the bay, like a great meteor---this point, crowned with the towers
and dome of a cathedral representing the nucleus, while the tail gradually widened out and
was lost among the numberless villas that reached to the top of the mountains behind. A mole
runs nearly across the mouth of the harbor, with a tall light-house at its extremity, leaving
only a narrow passage for vessels. As we gazed, a purple glow lay on the bosom of the sea,
while far beyond the city, the eastern half of the mountain crescent around the gulf was tinted
with the loveliest hue of orange. The impressions which one derives from looking on remarkable
scenery, depend, for much of their effect, on the time and weather. I have been very fortunate
in this respect in two instances, and shall carry with me through life, two glorious pictures
of a very different character--the wild sublimity of the Brocken in cloud and storm, and the
splendor of Genoa in an Italian sunset.

Genoa has been called the "city of palaces." and it well deserves the appellation. Row above
row of magnificent structures rise amid gardens along the side of the hills, and many of the
streets, though narrow and crooked, are lined entirely with the splendid dwellings of the Genoese
nobles. All these speak of the republic in its days of wealth and power, when it could cope
successfully with Venice, and Doria could threaten to bridle the horses of St. Mark. At present
its condition is far different; although not so fallen as its rival, it is but a shadow of
its former self--the life and energy it possessed as a republic, has withered away under the
grasp of tyranny.

We entered Genoa, as I have already said, in a religious procession. On passing the gate we
saw from the concourse of people and the many banners hanging from the windows or floating
across the streets, that it was the day of a festa. Before entering the city we reached the
procession itself, which was one of unusual solemnity. As it was impossible in the dense crowd,
to pass it, we struggled through till we reached a good point for seeing the whole, and slowly
moved on with it through the city. First went a company of boys in white robes; then followed
a body of friars, dressed in long black cassocks, and with shaven crowns; then a company of
soldiers with a band of music; then a body of nuns, wrapped from head to foot in blue robes,
leaving only a small place to see out of--in the dusk they looked very solemn and ghost-like,
and their low chant had to me something awful and sepulchral in it; then followed another company
of friars, and after that a great number of priests in white and black robes, bearing the statue
of the saint, with a pyramid of flowers, crosses and blazing wax tapers, while companies of
soldiery, monks and music brought up the rear. Armed guards walked at intervals on each side
of the procession, to keep the way clear and prevent disturbance; two or three bands played
solemn airs, alternating with the deep monotonous chanting of the friars. The whole scene,
dimly lighted by the wax tapers, produced in me a feeling nearly akin to fear, as if I were
witnessing some ghostly, unearthly spectacle. To rites like these, however, which occur every
few weeks, the people must be well accustomed.

Among the most interesting objects in Genoa, is the Doria palace, fit in its splendor for a
monarch's residence. It stands in the Strada Nova, one of the three principal streets, and
I believe is still in the possession of the family. There are many others through the city,
scarcely less magnificent, among which that of the Durazzo family may be pointed out. The American
consulate is in one of these old edifices, with a fine court-yard and ceilings covered with
frescoes. Mr. Moro, the Vice Consul, did us a great kindness, which I feel bound to acknowledge,
although it will require the disclosure of some private, and perhaps uninteresting circumstances.
On leaving Frankfort, we converted--for the sake of convenience--the greater part of our funds
into a draft on a Saxon merchant in Leghorn, reserving just enough, as we supposed, to take
us thither. As in our former case, in Germany, the sum was too small, which we found to our
dismay on reaching Milan. Notwithstanding we had traveled the whole ninety miles from that
city to Genoa for three francs each, in the hope of having enough, left to enable one at least
to visit Leghorn, the expenses for a passport in Genoa (more than twenty francs) prevented
this plan. I went therefore to the Vice Consul to ascertain whether the merchant on whom the
draft was drawn, had any correspondents there, who might advance a portion of it. His secretary
made many inquiries, but without effect; Mr. Moro then generously offered to furnish me with
means to reach Leghorn, whence I could easily remit a sufficient sum to my two comrades. This
put an end to our anxiety, (for I must confess we could not help feeling some), and I therefore
prepared to leave that evening in the "Virgilio."

The feelings with which I look on this lovely land, are fast changing. What with the dust and
heat, and cheating landlords, and the dull plains of Lombardy, my first experience was not
very prepossessing. But the joyous and romantic anticipation with which I looked forward to
realizing the dream of my earliest boyhood, is now beginning to be surpassed by the exciting
reality. Every breath I drew in the city of Columbus and Doria, was deeply tinctured with the
magic of history and romance. It was like entering on a new existence, to look on scenes so
lovely by nature and so filled with the inspiring memories of old.

    "Italia too, Italia! looking on thee,
    Full flashes on the soul the light of ages,
    Since the fierce Carthagenian almost won thee,
    To the last halo of the chiefs and sages
    Who glorify thy consecrated pages!
    Thou wert the throne and grave of empires."

The Virgilio was advertised to leave at six o'clock, and I accordingly went out to her in a
little boat half an hour beforehand; but we were delayed much longer, and I saw sunset again
fade over the glorious amphitheatre of palaces and mountains, with the same orange glow--the
same purple and crimson flush, deepening into twilight--as before. An old blind man in a skiff,
floated around under the bows of the boat on the glassy water, singing to the violin a plaintive
air that appeared to be an evening hymn to the virgin. There was something very touching in
his venerable countenance, with the sightless eyes turned upward to the sunset heaven whose
glory he could never more behold.

The lamps were lit on the tower at the end of the mole as we glided out on the open sea; I
stood on deck and watched the receding lights of the city, till they and the mountains above
them, were blended with the darkened sky. The sea-breeze was fresh and cool, and the stars
glittered with a frosty clearness, which would have made the night delicious had not a slight
rolling of the waves obliged me to go below. Here, besides being half seasick, I was placed
at the mercy of many voracious fleas, who obstinately stayed, persisting in keeping me company.
This was the first time I had suffered from these cannibals, and such were my torments, I almost
wished some blood-thirsty Italian would come and put an end to them with his stiletto.

The first ray of dawn that stole into the cabin sent me on deck. The hills of Tuscany lay in
front, sharply outlined on the reddening sky; near us was the steep and rocky isle of Gorgona;
and far to the south-west, like a low mist along the water, ran the shores of Corsica--the
birth place of Columbus and Napoleon![***] As the dawn brightened we saw on the southern horizon
a cloud-like island, also imperishably connected with the name of the latter--the prison-kingdom
of Elba! North of us extended the rugged mountains of Carrarra--that renowned range whence
has sprung many a form of almost breathing beauty, and where yet slumber, perhaps, in the unhewn
marble, the god-like shapes of an age of art, more glorious than any the world has ever yet beheld!

[Footnote ***: By recent registers found in Corsica, it has been determined that this island
also gave birth to the discoverer of the new world.]

The sun rose from behind the Apennines and masts and towers became visible through the golden
haze, as we approached the shore. On a flat space between the sea and the hills, not far from
the foot of Montenero, stands Leghorn. The harbor is protected by a mole, leaving a narrow
passage, through which we entered, and after waiting two hours for the visit of the health
and police officers, we were permitted to go on shore. The first thing that struck me, was
the fine broad streets; the second, the motley character of the population. People were hurrying
about noisy and bustling--Greeks in their red caps and capotes; grave turbaned and bearded
Turks; dark Moors; the Corsair-looking natives of Tripoli and Tunis, and seamen of nearly every
nation. At the hotel where I stayed, we had a singular mixture of nations at dinner:--two French,
two Swiss, one Genoese, one Roman, one American and one Turk--and we were waited on by a Tuscan
and an Arab! We conversed together in four languages, all at once.

To the merchant, Leghorn is of more importance than to the traveler. Its extensive trade, not
only in the manufactures of Tuscany, but also in the productions of the Levant, makes it important
to the former, while the latter seeks in vain for fine buildings, galleries of art, or in interesting
historical reminiscences. Through the kind attention of the Saxon Consul, to whom I had letters,
two or three days went by delightfully.

The only place of amusement here in summer is a drive along the sea shore, called the Ardenza,
which is frequented every evening by all who can raise a vehicle. I visited it twice with a
German friend. We met one evening the Princess Corsini, wife of the Governor of Leghorn, on
horseback--a young, but not pretty woman. The road leads out along the Mediterranean, past
an old fortress, to a large establishment for the sea bathers, where it ends in a large ring,
around which the carriages pass and re-pass, until sunset has gone out over the sea, when they
return to the city in a mad gallop, or as fast as the lean horses can draw them.

In driving around, we met two or three carriages of Turks, in one of which I saw a woman of
Tunis, with a curious gilded head-dress, eighteen inches in height.

I saw one night a Turkish funeral. It passed me in one of the outer streets, on its way to
the Turkish burying ground. Those following the coffin, which was covered with a heavy black
pall, wore white turbans and long white robes--the mourning color of the Turks. Torches were
borne by attendants, and the whole company passed on at a quick pace. Seen thus by night, it
had a strange and spectral appearance.

There is another spectacle here which was exceedingly revolting to me. The condemned criminals,
chained two and two, are kept at work through the city, cleaning the streets. They are dressed
in coarse garments of a dirty red color, with the name of the crime for which they were convicted,
painted on the back. I shuddered to see so many marked with the words--"omicidio premeditato."
All day they are thus engaged, exposed to the scorn and contumely of the crowd, and at night
dragged away to be incarcerated in damp, unwholesome dungeons, excavated under the public thoroughfares.

The employment of criminals in this way is common in Italy. Two days after crossing St. Gothard,
we saw a company of abject-looking creatures, eating their dinner by the road-side, near Bellinzona.
One of them had a small basket of articles of cotton and linen, and as he rose up to offer
them to us, I was startled by the clank of fetters. They were all employed to labor on the road.

On going down to the wharf in Leghorn, in the morning, two or three days ago, I found F----
and B---- just stepping on shore from the steamboat, tired enough of the discomforts of the
voyage, yet anxious to set out for Florence as soon as possible. After we had shaken off the
crowd of porters, pedlars and vetturini, and taken a hasty breakfast at the Cafe Americano,
we went to the Police Office to get our passports, and had the satisfaction of paying two francs
for permission to proceed to Florence. The weather had changed since the preceding day, and
the sirocco-wind which blows over from the coast of Africa, filled the streets with clouds
of dust, which made walking very unpleasant. The clear blue sky had vanished, and a leaden
cloud hung low on the Mediterranean, hiding the shores of Corsica and the rooky isles of Gorgona
and Capraja.

The country between Leghorn and Pisa, is a flat marsh, intersected in several places by canals
to carry off the stagnant water which renders this district so unhealthy. It is said that the
entire plain between the mountains of Carrarra and the hills back of Leghorn has been gradually
formed by the deposits of the Arno and the receding of the Mediterranean, which is so shallow
along the whole coast, that large vessels have to anchor several miles out. As we approached
Pisa over the level marsh, I could see the dome of the Cathedral and the Leaning Tower rising
above the gardens and groves which surround it.

Our baggage underwent another examination at the gate, where we were again assailed by the
vetturini, one of whom hung on us like a leech till we reached a hotel, and there was finally
no way of shaking him off except by engaging him to take us to Florence. The bargain having
been concluded, we had still a few hours left and set off to hunt the Cathedral. We found it
on an open square near the outer wall, and quite remote from the main part of the town. Emerging
from the narrow and winding street, one takes in et a glance the Baptistery, the Campo Santo,
the noble Cathedral and the Leaning Tower--forming altogether a view rarely surpassed in Europe
for architectural effect. But the square is melancholy and deserted, and rank, untrampled grass
fills the crevices of its marble pavement.

I was surprised at the beauty of the Leaning Tower. Instead of all old, black, crumbling fabric,
as I always supposed, it is a light, airy, elegant structure, of white marble, and its declension,
which is interesting as a work of art (or accident,) is at the same time pleasing from its
novelty. There have been many conjectures as to the cause of this deviation, which is upwards
of fourteen feet from the perpendicular; it is now generally believed that the earth having
sunk when the building was half finished, it was continued by the architects in the same angle.
The upper gallery, which is smaller than the others, shows a very perceptible inclination back
towards the perpendicular, as if in some degree to counterbalance the deviation of the other
part. There are eight galleries in all, supported by marble pillars, but the inside of the
Tower is hollow to the very top.

We ascended by the same stairs which were trodden so often by Galileo in going up to make his
astronomical observations; in climbing spirally around the hollow cylinder in the dark, it
was easy to tell on which side of the Tower we were, from the proportionate steepness of the
staircase. There is a fine view from the top, embracing the whole plain as far as Leghorn on
one side, with its gardens and grain fields spread out like a vast map. In a valley of the
Carrarrese Mountains to the north, we could see the little town of Lucca, much frequented at
this season on account of its baths; the blue summits of the Appenines shut in the view to
the east. In walking through the city I noticed two other towers, which had nearly as great
a deviation from the perpendicular. We met a person who had the key of the Baptistery, which
he opened for us. Two ancient columns covered with rich sculpture form the doorway, and the
dome is supported by massive pillars of the red marble of Elba. The baptismal font is of the
purest Parian marble. The most remarkable thing was the celebrated musical echo. Our cicerone
stationed himself at the side of the font and sang a few notes. After a moment's pause they
were repeated aloft in the dome, but with a sound of divine sweetness--as clear and pure as
the clang of a crystal bell. Another pause--and we heard them again, higher, fainter and sweeter,
followed by a dying note, as if they were fading far away into heaven. It seemed as if an angel
lingered in the temple, echoing with his melodious lips the common harmonies of earth. Even
thus does the music of good deeds, hardly noted in our grosser atmosphere, awake a divine echo
in the far world of spirit.

The Campo Santo, on the north side of the Cathedral, was, until lately, the cemetery of the
city; the space enclosed within its marble galleries is filled to the depth of eight or ten
feet, with earth from the Holy Land. The vessels which carried the knights of Tuscany to Palestine
were filled at Joppa, on returning, with this earth as ballast, and on arriving at Pisa it
was deposited in the Cemetery. It has the peculiar property of decomposing all human bodies,
in the space of two days. A colonnade of marble encloses it, with windows of the most exquisite
sculpture opening on the inside. They reminded me of the beautiful Gothic oriels of Melrose.
At each end are two fine, green cypresses, which thrive remarkably in the soil of Palestine.
The dust of a German emperor, among others, rests in this consecrated ground. There are other
fine churches in Pisa, but the four buildings I have mentioned, are the principal objects of
interest. The tower where Count Ugolino and his sons were starved to death by the citizens
of Pisa, who locked them up and threw the keys into the Arno, has lately been destroyed.

An Italian gentleman having made a bargain in the meantime with our vetturino, we found every
thing ready on returning to the hotel. On the outside of the town we mounted into the vehicle,
a rickety-looking concern, and as it commenced raining, I was afraid we would have a bad night
of it. After a great deal of bargaining, the vetturino agreed to take us to Florence that night
for five francs a piece, provided one person would sit on the outside with the driver. I accordingly
mounted on front, protected by a blouse and umbrella, for it was beginning to rain dismally.
The miserable, bare-boned horses were fastened with rope-traces, and the vetturino having taken
the rope-lines in his hand, gave a flourish with his whip; one old horse tumbled nearly to
the ground, but he jerked him up again and we rattled off.

After riding ten miles in this way, it became so wet and dreary, that I was fain to give the
driver two francs extra, for the privilege of an inside seat. Our Italian companion was agreeable
and talkative, but as we were still ignorant of the language, I managed to hold a scanty conversation
with him in French. He seemed delighted to learn that we were from America; his polite reserve
gave place to a friendly familiarity and he was loud in his praises of the Americans. I asked
him why it was that he and the Italians generally, were so friendly towards us. "I hardly know,"
he answered; "you are so different from any other nation; and then, too, you have so much sincerity!"

The Appenines were wreathed and hidden in thick mist, and the prospect over the flat cornfields
bordering the road was not particularly interesting. We had made about one-third of the way
as night set in, when on ascending a hill soon after dark, F---- happened to look out, and
saw one of the axles bent and nearly broken off. we were obliged to get out and walk through
the mud to the next village, when after two hours' delay, the vetturino came along with another
carriage. Of the rest of the way to Florence, I cannot say much. Cramped up in the narrow vehicle,
we jolted along in the dark, rumbling now and then through some silent village, where lamps
were burning before the solitary shrines. Sometimes a blinding light crossed the road, where
we saw the tile-makers sitting in the red glare of their kilns, and often the black boughs
of trees were painted momentarily on the cloudy sky. If the jolting carriage had even permitted
sleep, the horrid cries of the vetturino, urging on his horses, would have prevented it; and
I decided, while trying to relieve my aching limbs, that three days' walking in sun and sand
was preferable to one night of such travel.

Finally about four o'clock in the morning the carriage stopped; my Italian friend awoke and
demanded the cause. "Signor," said the vetturino, "we are in Florence!" I blessed the man,
and the city too. The good-humored officer looked at our passports and passed our baggage without
examination; we gave the gatekeeper a paul and he admitted us. The carriage rolled through
the dark, silent streets--passed a public square--came out on the Arno--crossed and entered
the city again--and finally stopped at a hotel. The master of the "Lione Bianco" came down
in an undress to receive us, and we shut the growing dawn out of our rooms to steal that repose
from the day which the night had not given.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

FLORENCE AND ITS GALLERIES.

Sept. 11.--Our situation here is as agreeable as we could well desire. We have three large
and handsomely furnished rooms, in the centre of the city, for which we pay Signor Lazzeri,
a wealthy goldsmith, ten scudo per month--a scudo being a trifle more than an American dollar.
We live at the Cafès and Trattone very conveniently for twenty-five cents a day, enjoying moreover,
at our dinner in the Trattoria del Cacciatore, the company of several American artists with
whom we have become acquainted. The day after our arrival we met at the table d'hote of the
"Lione Bianco," Dr. Boardman of New York, through whose assistance we obtained our present
lodgings. There are at present ten or twelve American artists in Florence, and we promise ourselves
much pleasure and profit from their acquaintance. B---- and I are so charmed with the place
and the beautiful Tuscan dialect, that we shall endeavor to spend three or four months here.
F---- returns to Germany in two weeks, to attend the winter term of the University at his favorite
Heidelberg.

Our first walk in Florence was to the Royal Gallery--we wished to see the "goddess living in
stone" without delay. Crossing the neighboring Piazza del Granduca, we passed Michael Angelo's
colossal statue of David, and an open gallery containing, besides some antiques, the master-piece
of John of Bologna. The palace of the Uffizii, fronting on the Arno, extends along both sides
of an avenue running back to the Palazzo Vecchio. We entered the portico which passes around
under the great building, and after ascending three or four flights of steps, came into a long
hall, filled with paintings and ancient statuary. Towards the end of this, a door opened into
the Tribune--that celebrated room, unsurpassed by any in the world for the number and value
of the gems it contains. I pushed aside a crimson curtain and stood in the presence of the Venus.

It may be considered heresy, but I confess I did not at first go into raptures, nor perceive
any traces of superhuman beauty. The predominant feeling, if I may so express it, was satisfaction;
the eye dwells on its faultless outline with a gratified sense, that nothing is wanting to
render it perfect. It is the ideal of a woman's form--a faultless standard by which all beauty
may be measured, but without striking expression, except in the modest and graceful position
of the limbs. The face, though regular, is not handsome, and the body appears small, being
but five feet in height, which, I think, is a little below the average stature of women. On
each side, as if to heighten its elegance by contrast with rude and unrefined nature, are the
statues of the Wrestlers, and the slave listening to the conspiracy of Catiline, called also
The Whetter.

As if to correspond with the value of the works it holds, the Tribune is paved with precious
marbles and the ceiling studded with polished mother-of-pearl. A dim and subdued light fills
the hall, which throws over the mind that half-dreamy tone necessary to the full enjoyment
of such objects. On each side of the Venus de Medici hangs a Venus by Titian, the size of life,
and painted in that rich and gorgeous style of coloring which has been so often and vainly
attempted since his time.

Here are six of Raphael's best preserved paintings. I prefer the "St. John in the Desert" to
any other picture in the Tribune. His glorious form, in the fair proportions of ripening boyhood--the
grace of his attitude, with the arm lifted eloquently on high--the divine inspiration which
illumines his young features--chain the step irresistibly before it. It is one of those triumphs
of the pencil which few but Raphael have accomplished--the painting of spirit in its loftiest
and purest form. Near it hangs the Fornarina, which he seems to have painted in as deep a love
as he entertained for the original. The face is modest and beautiful, and filled with an expression
of ardent and tender attachment. I never tire looking upon either of these two.

Let me not forget, while we are in this peerless hall, to point out Guercino's Samian Sybil.
It is a glorious work. With her hands clasped over her volume, she is looking up with a face
full of deep and expressive sadness. A picturesque turban is twined around her head, and bands
of pearls gleam amidst her rich, dark brown tresses. Her face bears the softness of dawning
womanhood, and nearly answers my ideal of female beauty. The same artist has another fine picture
here--a sleeping Endymion. The mantle has fallen from his shoulders, as he reclines asleep,
with his head on his hand, and his crook beside him. The silver crescent of Dian looks over
his shoulder from the sky behind, and no wonder if she should become enamored, for a lovelier
shepherd has not been seen since that of King Admetus went back to drive his chariot in the
heavens.

The "Drunken Bacchus" of Michael Angelo is greatly admired, and indeed it might pass for a
relic of the palmiest times of Grecian art. The face, amidst its half-vacant, sensual expression,
shows traces of its immortal origin, and there is still an air of dignity preserved in the
swagger of his beautiful form. It is, in a word, the ancient idea of a drunken god. It may
be doubted whether the artist's talents might not have been employed better than in ennobling
intoxication. If he had represented Bacchus as he really is--degraded even below the level
of humanity--it might be more beneficial to the mind, though less beautiful to the eye. However,
this is a question on which artists and moralists cannot agree. Perhaps, too, the rich blood
of the Falernian grape produced a more godlike delirium than the vulgar brandy which oversets
the moderns!

At one end of the gallery is a fine copy in marble of the Laocoon, by Bandinelli, one of the
rivals of Michael Angelo. When it was finished, the former boasted it was better than the original,
to which Michael made the apt reply: "It is foolish for those who walk in the footsteps of
others, to say they go before them!"

Let us enter the hall of Niobe. One starts back on seeing the many figures in the attitude
of flight, for they seem at first about to spring from their pedestals. At the head of the
room stands the afflicted mother, bending over the youngest daughter who clings to her knees,
with an upturned countenance of deep and imploring agony. In vain! the shafts of Apollo fall
thick, and she will soon be childless. No wonder the strength of that woe depicted on her countenance
should change her into stone. One of her sons--a beautiful, boyish form,--is lying on his back,
just expiring, with the chill langour of death creeping over his limbs. We seem to hear the
quick whistling of the arrows, and look involuntarily into the air to see the hovering figure
of the avenging god. In a chamber near is kept the head of a faun, made by Michael Angelo,
at the age of fourteen, in the garden of Lorenzo de Medici, from a piece of marble given him
by the workmen.

The portraits of the painters are more than usually interesting. Every countenance is full
of character. There is the pale, enthusiastic face of Raphael, the stern vigor of Titian, the
majesty and dignity of Leonardo da Vinci, and the fresh beauty of Angelica Kauffmann. I liked
best the romantic head of Raphael Mengs. In one of the rooms there is a portrait of Alfieri,
with an autograph sonnet of his own on the back of it. The house in which he lived and died,
is on the north bank of the Arno, near the Ponte Caraja, and his ashes rest in Santa Croce.

Italy still remains the home of art, and it is but just she should keep these treasures, though
the age that brought them forth has passed away. They are her only support now; her people
are dependent for their subsistence on the glory of the past. The spirits of the old painters,
living still on their canvass, earn from year to year the bread of an indigent and oppressed
people. This ought to silence those utilitarians at home, who oppose the cultivation of the
fine arts, on the ground of their being useless luxuries. Let them look to Italy, where a picture
by Raphael or Correggio is a rich legacy for a whole city. Nothing is useless that gratifies
that perception of beauty, which is at once the most delicate and the most intense of our mental
sensations, binding us by an unconscious link nearer to nature and to Him, whose every thought
is born of Beauty, Truth and Love. I envy not the one who looks with a cold and indifferent
spirit on these immortal creations of the old masters--these poems written in marble and on
the canvass. They who oppose every thing which can refine and spiritualize the nature of man,
by binding him down to the cares of the work-day world alone, cheat life of half its glory.

The eighth of this month was the anniversary of the birth of the Virgin, and the celebration,
if such it might be called, commenced the evening before, It is the custom, and Heaven only
knows how it originated, for the people of the lower class to go through the streets in a company,
blowing little penny whistles. We were walking that night in the direction of the Duomo, when
we met a band of these men, blowing with all their might on the shrill whistles, so that the
whole neighborhood resounded with one continual, piercing, ear-splitting shriek. They marched
in a kind of quick trot through the streets, followed by a crowd of boys, and varying the noise
occasionally by shouts and howls of the most horrible character. They paraded through all the
principal streets of the city, which for an hour sent up such an agonizing scream that you
might have fancied it an enormous monster, expiring in great torment. The people seemed to
take the whole thing as a matter of course, but it was to us a novel manner of ushering in
a religious festival.

The sky was clear and blue, as it always is in this Italian paradise, when we left Florence
a few days ago for Fiesole. In spite of many virtuous efforts to rise early, it was nine o'clock
before we left the Porta San Gallo, with its triumphal arch to the Emperor Francis, striding
the road to Bologna. We passed through the public walk at this end of the city, and followed
the road to Fiesole along the dried-up bed of a mountain torrent. The dwellings of the Florentine
nobility occupy the whole slope, surrounded with rich and lovely gardens. The mountain and
plain are both covered with luxuriant olive orchards, whose foliage of silver gray gives the
scene the look of a moonlight landscape.

At the base of the mountain of Fiesole we passed one of the summer palaces of Lorenzo the Magnificent,
and a little distance beyond, took a foot-path overshadowed by magnificent cypresses, between
whose dark trunks we looked down on the lovely Val d'Arno. But I will reserve all description
of the view till we arrive at the summit.

The modern village of Fiesole occupies the site of an ancient city, generally supposed to be
of Etrurian origin. Just above, on one of the peaks of the mountain, stands the Acropolis,
formerly used as a fortress, but now untenanted save by a few monks. From the side of its walls,
beneath the shade of a few cypresses, there is a magnificent view of the whole of Val d'Arno,
with Florence--the gem of Italy--in the centre. Stand with me a moment on the height, and let
us gaze on this grand panorama, around which the Apennines stretch with a majestic sweep, wrapped
in a robe of purple air, through which shimmer the villas and villages on their sides! The
lovely vale lies below us in its garb of olive groves, among which beautiful villas are sprinkled
as plentifully as white anemones in the woods of May. Florence lies in front of us, the magnificent
cupola of the Duomo crowning its clustered palaces. We see the airy tower of the Palazzo Vecchio--the
new spire of Santa Croce--and the long front of the Palazzo Pitti, with the dark foliage of
the Boboli Gardens behind. Beyond, far to the south, are the summits of the mountains near
Siena. We can trace the sandy bed of the Arno down the valley till it disappears at the foot
of the Lower Apennines, which mingle in the distance with the mountains of Carrara.

Galileo was wont to make observations "at evening from the top of Fiesole," and the square
tower of the old church is still pointed out as the spot. Many a night did he ascend to its
projecting terrace, and watch the stars as they rolled around through the clearest heaven to
which a philosopher ever looked up.

We passed through an orchard of fig trees, and vines laden with beautiful purple and golden
clusters, and in a few minutes reached the remains of an amphitheatre, in a little nook on
the mountain side. This was a work of Roman construction, as its form indicates. Three or four
ranges of seats alone, are laid bare, and these have only been discovered within a few years.
A few steps further we came to a sort of cavern, overhung with wild fig-trees. After creeping
in at the entrance, we found ourselves in an oval chamber, tall enough to admit of our standing
upright, and rudely but very strongly built. This was one of the dens in which the wild beasts
were kept; they were fed by a hole in the top, now closed up. This cell communicates with four
or five others, by apertures broken in the walls. I stepped into one, and could see in the
dim light, that it was exactly similar to the first, and opened into another beyond.

Further down the mountain we found the ancient wall of the city, without doubt of Etrurian
origin. It is of immense blocks of stone, and extends more or less dilapidated around the whole
brow of the mountain. In one place there stands a solitary gateway, of large stones, which
looks as if it might have been one of the first attempts at using the principle of the arch.
These ruins are all gray and ivied, and it startles one to think what a history Earth has lived
through since their foundations were laid!

We sat all the afternoon under the cypress trees and looked down on the lovely valley, practising
Italian sometimes with two young Florentines who came up to enjoy the "bell'aria" of Fiesole.
Descending as sunset drew on, we reached the Porta San Gallo, as the people of Florence were
issuing forth to their evening promenade.

One of my first visits was to the church of Santa Croce. This is one of the oldest in Florence,
venerated alike by foreigners and citizens, for the illustrious dead whose remains it holds.
It is a plain, gloomy pile, the front of which is still unfinished, though at the base, one
sees that it was originally designed to be covered with black marble. On entering the door
we first saw the tomb of Michael Angelo. Around the marble sarcophagus which contains his ashes
are three mourning figures, representing Sculpture, Painting and Architecture, and his bust
stands above--a rough, stern countenance, like a man of vast but unrefined mind. Further on
are the tombs of Alfieri and Machiavelli and the colossal cenotaph lately erected to Dante.
Opposite reposes Galileo. What a world of renown in these few names! It makes one venerate
the majesty of his race, to stand beside the dust of such lofty spirits.

Dante's monument may be said to be only erected to his memory; he sleeps at the place of his exile,

    "Like Scipio, buried by the upbraiding shore!"

It is the work of Ricci, a Florentine artist, and has been placed there within a few years.
The colossal figure of Poetry weeping over the empty urn, might better express the regret of
Florence in being deprived of his ashes. The figure of Dante himself, seated above, is grand
and majestic; his head is inclined as if in meditation, and his features bear the expression
of sublime thought. Were this figure placed there alone, on a simple and massive pedestal,
it would be more in keeping with his fame than the lumbering heaviness of the present monument.

Machiavelli's tomb is adorned with a female figure representing History, bearing his portrait.
The inscription, which seems to be somewhat exaggerated, is: tanto nomini nullum par elogium.
Near lies Alfieri, the "prince of tragedy," as he is called by the Italians. In his life he
was fond of wandering among the tombs of Santa Croce, and it is said that there the first desire
and presentiment of his future glory stirred within his breast. Now he slumbers among them,
not the least honored name of that immortal company.

Galileo's tomb is adorned with his bust. His face is calm and dignified, and he holds appropriately
in his hands, a globe and telescope. Aretino, the historian, lies on his tomb with a copy of
his works clasped to his breast; above that of Lanzi, the historian of painting, there is a
beautiful fresco of the angel of fame; and opposite to him is the scholar Lamio. The most beautiful
monument in the church is that of a Polish princess, in the transept. She is lying on the bier,
her features settled in the repose of death, and her thin, pale hands clasped across her breast.
The countenance wears that half-smile, "so coldly sweet and sadly fair," which so often throws
a beauty over the face of the dead, and the light pall reveals the fixed yet graceful outline
of the form.

In that part of the city, which lies on the south bank of the Arno, is the palace of the Grand
Duke, known by the name of the Palazzo Pitti, from a Florentine noble of that name, by whom
it was first built. It is a very large, imposing pile, preserving an air of lightness in spite
of the rough, heavy stones of which it is built. It is another example of a magnificent failure.
The Marquis Strozzi, having built a palace which was universally admired for its beauty, (which
stands yet, a model of chaste and massive elegance,) his rival, the Marquis Pitti, made the
proud boast that he would build a palace, in the court-yard of which could bo placed that of
Strozzi. These are actually the dimensions of the court-yard; but in building the palace, although
he was liberally assisted by the Florentine people, he ruined himself, and his magnificent
residence passed into other hands, while that of Strozzi is inhabited by his descendants to
this very day.

The gallery of the Palazzo Pitti is one of the finest in Europe. It contains six or seven hundred
paintings, selected from the best works of the Italian masters. By the praiseworthy liberality
of the Duke, they are open to the public, six hours every day, and the rooms are thronged with
artists of all nations.

Among Titian's works, there is his celebrated "Bella," a half-length figure of a young woman.
It is a masterpiece of warm and brilliant coloring, without any decided expression. The countenance
is that of vague, undefined thought, as of one who knew as yet nothing of the realities of
life. In another room is his Magdalen, a large, voluptuous form, with her brown hair falling
like a veil over her shoulders and breast, but in her upturned countenance one can sooner read
a prayer for an absent lover than repentance for sins she has committed.

What could excel in beauty the Madonna della Sedia of Raphael? It is another of those works
of that divine artist, on which we gaze and gaze with a never-tiring enjoyment of its angelic
beauty. To my eye it is faultless; I could not wish a single outline of form, a single shade
of color changed. Like his unrivalled Madonna in the Dresden Gallery, its beauty is spiritual
as well as earthly; and while gazing on the glorious countenance of the Jesus-child, I feel
an impulse I can scarcely explain--a longing to tear it from the canvas as if it were a breathing
form, and clasp it to my heart in a glow of passionate love. What a sublime inspiration Raphael
must have felt when he painted it! Judging from its effect on the beholder, I can conceive
of no higher mental excitement than that required to create it.

Here are also some of the finest and best preserved pictures of Salvator Rosa, and his portrait--a
wild head, full of spirit and genius. Besides several landscapes in his savage and stormy style,
there are two large sea-views, in which the atmosphere is of a deep and exquisite softness,
without impairing the strength and boldness of the composition. "A Battle Scene," is terrible.
Hundreds of combatants are met in the shock and struggle of conflict. Horses, mailed knights,
vassals are mixed together in wild confusion; banners are waving and lances flashing amid the
dust and smoke, while the wounded and dying are trodden under foot in darkness and blood. I
now first begin to comprehend the power and sublimity of his genius. From the wildness and
gloom of his pictures, he might almost be called the Byron of painters.

There is a small group of the "Fates," by Michael Angelo, which is one of the best of the few
pictures which remain of him. As is well known, he disliked the art, saying it was only fit
for women. This picture shows, however, how much higher he might have gone, had he been so
inclined. The three weird sisters are ghostly and awful--the one who stands behind, holding
the distaff, almost frightful. She who stands ready to cut the thread as it is spun out, has
a slight trace of pity on her fixed and unearthly lineaments. It is a faithful embodiment of
the old Greek idea of the Fates. I have wondered why some artist has not attempted the subject
in a different way. In the Northern Mythology they are represented as wild maidens, armed with
swords and mounted on fiery coursers. Why might they not also be pictured as angels, with countenances
of a sublime and mysterious beauty--one all radiant with hope and promise of glory, and one
with the token of a better future mingled with the sadness with which it severs the links of life?

There are many, many other splendid works in this collection, but it is unnecessary to mention
them. I have only endeavored, by taking a few of the best known, to give some idea of them
as they appear to me. There are hundreds of pictures here, which, though gems in themselves,
are by masters who are rarely heard of in America, and it would be of little interest to go
through the Gallery, describing it in guide-book fashion. Indeed, to describe galleries, however
rich and renowned they may be, is in general a work of so much difficulty, that I know not
whether the writer or the reader is made most tired thereby.

This collection possesses also the celebrated statue of Venus, by Canova. She stands in the
centre of a little apartment, filled with the most delicate and graceful works of painting.
Although undoubtedly a figure of great beauty, it by no means struck me as possessing that
exquisite and classic perfection which has been ascribed to it. The Venus de Medici far surpasses
it. The head is larger in proportion to the size of the body, than that of the latter, but
has not the same modest, virgin expression. The arm wrapped in the robe which she is pressing
to her breast, is finely executed, but the fingers of the other hand are bad--looking, as my
friend said, as if the ends were whittled off! The body is, however, of fine proportions, though,
taken as a whole, the statue is inferior to many other of Canova's works.

Occupying all the hill back of the Pitti Palace, are the Boboli Gardens, three times a week
the great resort of the Florentines. They are said to be the most beautiful gardens in Italy.
Numberless paths, diverging from a magnificent amphitheatre in the old Roman style, opposite
the court-yard, lend either in long flights of steps and terraces, or gentle windings among
beds sweet with roses, to the summit. Long avenues, entirely arched and interwoven with the
thick foliage of the laurel, which here grows to a tree, stretch along the slopes or wind in
the woods through thickets of the fragrant bay. Parterres, rich with flowers and shrubbery,
alternate with delightful groves of the Italian pine, acacia and laurel-leaved oak, and along
the hillside, gleaming among the foliage, are placed statues of marble, some of which are from
the chisels of Michael Angelo and Bandinelli. In one part there is a little sheet of water,
with an island of orange-trees in the centre, from which a broad avenue of cypresses and statues
leads to the very summit of the hill.

We often go there to watch the sun set over Florence and the vale of the Arno. The palace lies
directly below, and a clump of pine-trees on the hillside, that stand out in bold relief on
the glowing sky, makes the foreground to one of the loveliest pictures this side of the Atlantic.
I saw one afternoon the Grand Duke and his family get into their carriage to drive out. One
of the little dukes, who seemed a mischievous imp, ran out on a projection of the portico,
where considerable persuasion had to be used to induce him to jump into the arms of his royal
papa. I turned from these titled infants to watch a group of beautiful American children playing,
for my attention was drawn to them by the sound of familiar words, and I learned afterwards
they were the children of the sculptor Powers. I contrasted involuntarily the destinies of
each;--one to the enjoyment and proud energy of freedom, and one to the confining and vitiating
atmosphere of a court. The merry voices of the latter, as they played on the grass, came to
my ears most gratefully. There is nothing so sweet as to hear one's native tongue in a foreign
land from the lips of children!

CHAPTER XXXV.

A PILGRIMAGE TO VALLOMBROSA.

A pilgrimage to Vallombrosa!--in sooth it has a romantic sound. The phrase calls up images
of rosaries, and crosses, and shaven-headed friars. Had we lived in the olden days, such things
might verily have accompanied our journey to that holy monastery. We might then have gone barefoot,
saying prayers as we toiled along the banks of the Arno and up the steep Appenines, as did
Benevenuto Cellini, before he poured the melted bronze into the mould of his immortal Perseus.
But we are pilgrims to the shrines of Art and Genius; the dwelling-places of great minds are
our sanctuaries. The mean dwelling, in which a poet has battled down poverty with the ecstacy
of his mighty conceptions, and the dungeon in which a persecuted philosopher has languished,
are to us sacred; we turn aside from the palaces of kings and the battle-fields of conquerors,
to visit them. The famed miracles of San Giovanni Gualberto added little, in our eyes, to the
interest of Vallombrosa, but there were reverence and inspiration in the names of Dante, Milton,
and Ariosto.

We left Florence early, taking the way that leads from the Porta della Croce, up the north
bank of the Arno. It was a bright morning, but there was a shade of vapor on the hills, which
a practised eye might have taken as a prognostic of the rain that too soon came on. Fiesole,
with its tower and Acropolis, stood out brightly from the blue background, and the hill of
San Miniato lay with its cypress groves in the softest morning light. The Contadini were driving
into the city in their basket wagons, and there were some fair young faces among them, that
made us think Italian beauty was not altogether in the imagination.

After walking three or four miles, we entered the Appenines, keeping along the side of the
Arno, whose bed is more than half dried up from the long summer heats. The mountain sides were
covered with vineyards, glowing with their wealth of white and purple grapes, but the summits
were naked and barren. We passed through the little town of Ponte Sieve, at the entrance of
a romantic valley, where our view of the Arno was made more interesting by the lofty range
of the Appenines, amid whose forests we could see the white front of the monastery of Vallombrosa.
But the clouds sank low and hid it from sight, and the rain came on so hard that we were obliged
to take shelter occasionally in the cottages by the wayside. In one of these we made a dinner
of the hard, black bread of the country, rendered palatable by the addition of mountain cheese
and some chips of an antique Bologna sausage. We were much amused in conversing with the simple
hosts and their shy, gipsy-like children, one of whom, a dark-eyed, curly-haired boy, bore
the name of Raphael. We also became acquainted with a shoemaker and his family, who owned a
little olive orchard and vineyard, which they said produced enough to support them. Wishing
to know much a family of six consumed in a year, we inquired the yield of their property. They
answered, twenty small barrels of wine, and ten of oil. It was nearly sunset when we reached
Pellago, and the wet walk and coarse fare we were obliged to take on the road, well qualified
us to enjoy the excellent supper the pleasant landlady gave us.

This little town is among the Appenines, at the foot of the magnificent mountain of Vallombrosa.
What a blessing it was for Milton, that he saw its loveliness before his eyes closed on this
beautiful earth, and gained from it another hue in which to dip his pencil, when he painted
the bliss of Eden! I watched the hills all day as we approached them, and thought how often
his eyes had rested on their outlines, and how he had carried their forms in his memory for
many a sunless year. The banished Dante, too, had trodden them, flying from his ungrateful
country; and many another, whose genius has made him a beacon in the dark sea of the world's
history. It is one of those places where the enjoyment is all romance, and the blood thrills
as we gaze upon it.

We started early next morning, crossed the ravine, and took the well-paved way to the monastery
along the mountain side. The stones are worn smooth by the sleds in which ladies and provisions
are conveyed up, drawn by the beautiful white Tuscan oxen. The hills are covered with luxuriant
chesnut and oak trees, of those picturesque forms which they only wear in Italy: one wild dell
in particular is much resorted to by painters for the ready-made foregrounds it supplies. Further
on, we passed the Paterno, a rich farm belonging to the Monks. The vines which hung from tree
to tree, were almost breaking beneath clusters as heavy and rich as those which the children
of Israel bore on staves from the Promised Land. Of their flavor, we can say, from experience,
they were worthy to have grown in Paradise. We then entered a deep dell of the mountain, where
little shepherd girls were sitting on the rocks tending their sheep and spinning with their
fingers from a distaff, in the same manner, doubtless, as the Roman shepherdesses two thousand
years ago. Gnarled, gray olive trees, centuries old, grew upon the bare soil, and a little
rill fell in many a tiny cataract down the glen. By a mill, in one of the coolest and wildest
nooks I ever saw, two of us acted the part of water-spirits under one of these, to the great
astonishment of four peasants, who watched us from a distance.

Beyond, our road led through forests of chesnut and oak, and a broad view of mountain and vale
lay below us. We asked a peasant boy we met, how much land the Monks of Vallombrosa possessed.
"All that you see!" was the reply. The dominion of the good fathers reached once even to the
gates of Florence. At length, about noon, we emerged from the woods into a broad avenue leading
across a lawn, at whose extremity stood the massivs buildings of the monastery. On a rock that
towered above it, was the Paradisino, beyond which rose the mountain, covered with forests--

    "Shade above shade, a woody theatre.
    Of stateliest view"--

as Milton describes it. We were met at the entrance by a young monk in cowl and cassock, to
whom we applied for permission to stay till the next day, which was immediately given. Brother
Placido (for that was his name) then asked us if we would not have dinner. We replied that
our appetites were none the worse for climbing the mountain; and in half an hour sat down to
a dinner, the like of which we had not seen for a long time. Verily, thought I, it must be
a pleasant thing to be a monk, after all!--that is, a monk of Vallombrosa.

In the afternoon we walked through a grand pine forest to the western brow of the mountain,
where a view opened which it would require a wonderful power of the imagination for you to
see in fancy, as I did in reality. From the height where we stood, the view was uninterrupted
to the Mediterranean, a distance of more than seventy miles; a valley watered by a brunch of
the Arno swept far to the east, to the mountains near the Luke of Thrasymene; northwestwards
the hills of Carrara bordered the horizon; the space between these wide points was filled with
mountains and valleys, all steeped in that soft blue mist which makes Italian landscapes more
like heavenly visions than realities. Florence was visible afar off, and the current of the
Arno flashed in the sun. A cool and almost chilling wind blew constantly over the mountain,
although the country below basked in summer heat. We lay on the rocks, and let our souls luxuriate
in the lovely scene till near sunset. Brother Placido brought us supper in the evening, with
his ever-smiling countenance, and we soon after went to our beds in the neat, plain chambers,
to get rid of the unpleasant coldness.

Next morning it was damp and misty, and thick clouds rolled down the forests towards the convent.
I set out for the "Little Paradise," taking in my way the pretty cascade which falls some fifty
feet down the rocks. The building is not now as it was when Milton lived here, having been
rebuilt within a short time. I found no one there, and satisfied my curiosity by climbing over
the wall and looking in at the windows. A little chapel stands in a cleft of the rock below,
to mark the miraculous escape of St. John Gualberto, founder of the monastery. Being one day
very closely pursued by the Devil, he took shelter under the rock, which immediately became
soft and admitted him into it, while the fiend, unable to stop, was precipitated over the steep.
All this is related in a Latin inscription, and we saw a large hollow in the rock near, which
must have been intended for the imprint left by his sacred person.

One of the monks told us another legend, concerning a little chapel which stands alone on a
wild part of the mountain, above a rough pile of crags, called the "Peak of the Devil." "In
the time of San Giovanni Gualberto, the holy founder of our order," said he, "there was a young
man, of a noble family in Florence, who was so moved by the words of the saintly father, that
he forsook the world, wherein he had lived with great luxury and dissipation, and became monk.
But, after a time, being young and tempted again by the pleasures he had renounced, he put
off the sacred garments. The holy San Giovanni warned him of the terrible danger in which he
stood, and at length the wicked young man returned. It was not a great while, however, before
he became dissatisfied, and in spite all holy counsel, did the same thing again. But behold
what happened! As he was walking along the peak where the chapel stands, thinking nothing of
his great crime, the devil sprang suddenly from behind a rock, and catching the young man in
his arms, before he could escape, carried him with a dreadful noise and a great red flame and
smoke over the precipice, so that he was never afterwards seen."

The church attached to the monastery is small, but very solemn and venerable. I went several
times to muse in its still, gloomy aisle, and hear the murmuring chant of the Monks, who went
through their exercises in some of the chapels. At one time I saw them all, in long black cassocks,
march in solemn order to the chapel of St. John Gualberto, where they sang a deep chant, which
to me had something awful and sepulchral in it. Behind the high altar I saw their black, carved
chairs of polished oak, with ponderous gilded foliants lying on the rails before them. The
attendant opened one of these, that we might see the manuscript notes, three or four centuries
old, from which they sung.

We were much amused in looking through two or three Italian books, which were lying in the
traveler's room. One of these which our friend Mr. Tandy, of Kentucky, read, described the
miracles of the patron saint with an air of the most ridiculous solemnity. The other was a
description of the Monastery, its foundation, history, etc. In mentioning its great and far-spread
renown, the author stated then even an English poet, by the name of Milton, had mentioned it
in the following lines, which I copied verbatim from the book:

    "Thick as autumnal scaves that strow she brooks
    In vallombrosa, whereth Etruian Jades
    Stigh over orch d'embrover!"

In looking over the stranger's book, I found among the names of my countrymen, that of S. V.
Clevenger, the talented and lamented sculptor who died at sea on his passage home. There were
also the names of Mrs. Shelley and the Princess Potemkin, and I saw written on the wall, the
autograph of Jean Reboul, the celebrated modern French poet. We were so delighted with the
place we would have stayed another day, but for fear of trepassing too much on the lavish and
unceasing hospitality of the good fathers.

So in the afternoon we shook hands with Brother Placido, and turned our backs regretfully upon
one of the loneliest and loveliest spots of which earth can boast. The sky became gradually
clear as we descended, and the mist raised itself from the distant mountains. We ran down through
the same chesnut groves, diverging a little to go through the village of Tosi, which is very
picturesque when seen from a distance, but extremely dirty to one passing through. I stopped
in the ravine below to take a sketch of the mill and bridge, and as we sat, the line of golden
sunlight rose higher on the mountains above. On walking down the shady side of this glen, we
were enraptured with the scenery. A brilliant yet mellow glow lay over the whole opposing height,
lighting up the houses of Tosi and the white cottages half seen among the olives, while the
mountain of Vallombrosa stretched far heavenward like a sunny painting, with only a misty wreath
floating and waving around its summit. The glossy foliage of the chesnuts was made still brighter
by the warm light, and the old olives softened down into a silvery gray, whose contrast gave
the landscape a character of the mellowest beauty. As we wound out of the deep glen, the broad
valleys and ranges of the Appenines lay before us, forests, castles and villages steeped in
the soft, vapory blue of the Italian atmosphere, and the current of the Arno flashing like
a golden belt through the middle of the picture.

The sun was nearly down, and the mountains just below him were of a deep purple hue, while
those that ran out to the eastward wore the most aerial shade of blue. A few scattered clouds,
floating above, soon put on the sunset robe of orange and a band of the same soft color encircled
the western horizon. It did not reach half way to the zenith, however; the sky above was blue,
of such a depth and transparency, that to gaze upward was like looking into eternity. Then
how softly and soothingly the twilight came on! How deep a hush sank on the chesnut glades,
broken only by the song of the cicada, chirping its "good-night carol!" The mountains, too,
how majestic they stood in their deep purple outlines! Sweet, sweet Italy! I can feel now how
the soul may cling to thee, since thou canst thus gratify its insatiable thirst for the Beautiful.
Even thy plainest scene is clothed in hues that seem borrowed of heaven! In the twilight, more
radiant than light, and the stillness, more eloquent than music, which sink down over the sunny
beauty of thy shores, there is a silent, intense poetry that stirs the soul through all its
impassioned depths. With warm, blissful tears filling the eyes and a heart overflowing with
its own bright fancies, I wander in the solitude and calm of such a time, and love thee as
if I were a child of thy soil!

CHAPTER XXXVI.

WALK TO SIENA AND PRATOLINO--INCIDENTS IN FLORENCE.

October 16.--My cousin, being anxious to visit Rome, and reach Heidelberg before the commencement
of the winter semestre, set out towards the end of September, on foot. We accompanied him as
far as Siena, forty miles distant. As I shall most probably take another road to the Eternal
City, the present is a good opportunity to say something of that romantic old town, so famous
throughout Italy for the honesty of its inhabitants.

We dined the first day, seventeen miles from Florence, at Tavenella, where, for a meagre dinner
the hostess had the assurance to ask us seven pauls. We told her we would give but four and
a half, and by assuming a decided manner, with a plentiful use of the word "Signora" she was
persuaded to be fully satisfied with the latter sum. From a height near, we could see the mountains
coasting the Mediterranean, and shortly after, on descending a long hill, the little town of
Poggibonsi lay in the warm afternoon light, on an eminence before us. It was soon passed with
its dusky towers, then Stagia looking desolate in its ruined and ivied walls, and following
the advice of a peasant, we stopped for the night at the inn of Querciola. As we knew something
of Italian by this time, we thought it best to inquire the price of lodging, before entering.
The padrone asked if we meant to take supper also. We answered in the affirmative; "then,"
said he, "you will pay half a paul (about five emits) apiece for a bed." We passed under the
swinging bunch of boughs, which in Italy is the universal sign of an inn for the common people,
and entered the bare, smoky room appropriated to travelers. A long table, with well-worn benches,
were the only furniture; we threw our knapsacks on one end of it and sat down, amusing ourselves
while supper was preparing, in looking at a number of grotesque charcoal drawings on the wall,
which the flaring light of our tall iron lamp revealed to us. At length the hostess, a kindly-looking
woman, with a white handkerchief folded gracefully around her head, brought us a dish of fried
eggs, which, with the coarse black bread of the peasants and a basket full of rich grapes,
made us an excellent supper. We slept on mattresses stuffed with corn husks, placed on square
iron frames, which are the bedsteads most used in Italy. A brightly-painted caricature of some
saint or a rough crucifix, trimmed with bay leaves, hung at the head of each bed, and under
their devout protection we enjoyed a safe and unbroken slumber.

Next morning we set out early to complete the remaining ten miles to Siena. The only thing
of interest on the road, is the ruined wall and battlements of Castiglione, circling a high
hill and looking as old as the days of Etruria. The towers of Siena are seen at some distance,
but approaching it from this side, the traveler does not perceive its romantic situation until
he arrives. It stands on a double hill, which is very steep on some sides; the hollow between
the two peaks is occupied by the great public square, ten or fifteen feet lower than the rest
of the city. We left our knapsacks at a cafè and sought the celebrated Cathedral, which stands
in the highest part of the town, forming with its flat dome and lofty marble tower, an apex
to the pyramidal mass of buildings.

The interior is rich and elegantly perfect. Every part is of black and white marble, in what
I should call the striped style, which has a singular but agreeable effect. The inside of the
dome and the vaulted ceilings of the chapels, are of blue, with golden stars; the pavement
in the centre is so precious a work that it is kept covered with boards and only shown once
a year. There are some pictures of great value in this Cathedral; one of "The Descent of the
Dove," is worthy of the best days of Italian art. In an adjoining chamber, with frescoed walls,
and a beautiful tesselated pavement, is the library, consisting of a few huge old volumes,
which with their brown covers and brazen clasps, look as much like a collection of flat leather
trunks as any thing else. In the centre of the room stands the mutilated group of the Grecian
Graces, found in digging the foundation of the Cathedral. The figures are still beautiful and
graceful, with that exquisite curve of outline which is such a charm in the antique statues.
Canova has only perfected the idea in his celebrated group, which is nearly a copy of this.

We strolled through the square and then accompanied our friend to the Roman gate, where we
took leave of him for six months at least. He felt lonely at the thought of walking in Italy
without a companion, but was cheered by the anticipation of soon reaching Rome. We watched
him awhile, walking rapidly over the hot plain towards Radicofani, and then, turning our faces
with much pleasure towards Florence, we commenced the return walk. I must not forget to mention
the delicious grapes which we bought, begged and stole on the way. The whole country is like
one vineyard--and the people live, in a great measure, on the fruit, during this part of the
year. Would you not think it highly romantic and agreeable to sit in the shade of a cypress
grove, beside some old weather-beaten statues, looking out over the vales of the Appenines,
with a pile of white and purple grapes beside you, the like of which can scarcely be had in
America for love or money, and which had been given you by a dark-eyed peasant girl? If so,
you may envy us, for such was exactly our situation on the morning before reaching Florence.

Being in the Duomo, two or three days ago, I met a German traveler, who has walked through
Italy thus far, and intends continuing his journey to Rome and Naples. His name is Von Raumer.
He was well acquainted with the present state of America, and I derived much pleasure from
his intelligent conversation. We concluded to ascend the cupola in company. Two black-robed
boys led the way; after climbing an infinite number of steps, we reached the gallery around
the foot of the dome. The glorious view of that paradise, the vale of the Arno, shut in on
all sides by mountains, some bare and desolate, some covered with villas, gardens, and groves,
lay in soft, hazy light, with the shadows of a few light clouds moving slowly across it. They
next took us to a gallery on the inside of the dome, where we first saw the immensity of its
structure. Only from a distant view, or in ascending it, can one really measure its grandeur.
The frescoes, which from below appear the size of life, are found to be rough and monstrous
daubs; each figure being nearly as many fathoms in length as a man is feet. Continuing our
ascent, we mounted between the inside and outside shells of the dome. It was indeed a bold
idea for Brunelleschi to raise such a mass in air. The dome of Saint Peter's, which is scarcely
as large, was not made until a century after, and this was, therefore, the first attempt at
raising one on so grand a scale. It seems still as solid as if just built.

There was a small door in one of the projections of the lantern, which the sacristan told us
to enter and ascend still higher. Supposing there was a fine view to be gained, two priests,
who had just come up, entered it; the German followed, and I after him. After crawling in at
the low door, we found ourselves in a hollow pillar, little wider than our bodies. Looking
up, I saw the German's legs just above my head, while the other two were above him, ascending
by means of little iron bars fastened in the marble. The priests were very much amused, and
the German said:--"This is the first time I ever learned chimney-sweeping!" We emerged at length
into a hollow cone, hot and dark, with a rickety ladder going up somewhere; we could not see
where. The old priest, not wishing to trust himself to it, sent his younger brother up, and
we shouted after him:--"What kind of a view have you?" He climbed up till the cone got so narrow
he could go no further, and answered back in the darkness:--"I see nothing at all!" Shortly
after he came down, covered with dust and cobwebs, and we all descended the chimney quicker
than we went up. The old priest considered it a good joke, and laughed till his fat sides shook.
We asked the sacristan why he sent us up, and he answered:--"To see the construction of the
Church!"

I attended service in the Cathedral one dark, rainy morning, and was never before so deeply
impressed with the majesty and grandeur of the mighty edifice. The thick, cloudy atmosphere
darkened still more the light which came through the stained windows, and a solemn twilight
reigned in the long aisles. The mighty dome sprang far aloft, as if it enclosed a part of heaven,
for the light that struggled through the windows around its base, lay in broad bars on the
blue, hazy air. I would not have been surprised at seeing a cloud float along within it. The
lofty burst of the organ, that seemed like the pantings of a monster, boomed echoing away through
dome and nave, with a chiming, metallic vibration, that shook the massive pillars which it
would defy an earthquake to rend. All was wrapped in dusky obscurity, except where, in the
side-chapels, crowns of tapers were burning around the images. One knows not which most to
admire, the genius which could conceive, or the perseverance which could accomplish such a
work, On one side of the square, the colossal statue of the architect, glorious old Brunelleschi,
is most appropriately placed, looking up with pride at his performance.

The sunshine and genial airs of Italy have gone, leaving instead a cold, gloomy sky and chilling
winds. The autumnal season has fairly commenced, and I suppose I must bid adieu to the brightness
which made me in love with the land. The change has been no less sudden than unpleasant, and
if, as they say, it will continue all winter with little variation, I shall have to seek a
clearer climate. In the cold of these European winters, there is, as I observed last year in
Germany, a dull, damp chill, quite different from the bracing, exhilarating frosts of America.
It stagnates the vital principle and leaves the limbs dull and heavy, with a lifeless feeling
which can scarcely be overcome by vigorous action. At least, such has been my experience.

We lately made an excursion to Pratolino, on the Appenines, to see the vintage and the celebrated
colossus, by John of Bologna. Leaving Florence in the morning, with a cool, fresh wind blowing
down from the mountains, we began ascending by the road to Bologna. We passed Fiesole with
its tower and acropolis on the right, ascending slowly, with the bold peak of one of the loftiest
Appenines on our left. The abundant fruit of the olive was beginning to turn brown, and the
grapes were all gathered in from the vineyards, but we learned from a peasant boy that the
vintage was not finished at Pratolino.

We finally arrived at an avenue shaded with sycamores, leading to the royal park. The vintagers
were busy in the fields around, unloading the vines of their purple tribute, and many a laugh
and jest among the merry peasants enlivened the toil. We assisted them in disposing of some
fine clusters, and then sought the "Colossus of the Appenines." He stands above a little lake,
at the head of a long mountain-slope, broken with clumps of magnificent trees. This remarkable
figure, the work of John of Bologna, impresses one like a relic of the Titans. He is represented
as half-kneeling, supporting himself with one hand, while the other is pressed upon the head
of a dolphin, from which a little stream falls into the lake. The height of the figure when
erect, would amount to more than sixty feet! We measured one of the feet, which is a single
piece of rock, about eight feet long; from the ground to the top of one knee is nearly twenty
feet. The limbs are formed of pieces of stone, joined together, and the body of stone and brick.
His rough hair and eyebrows, and the beard, which reached nearly to the ground, are formed
of stalactites, taken from caves, and fastened together in a dripping and crusted mass. These
hung also from his limbs and body, and gave him the appearance of Winter in his mail of icicles.
By climbing up the rocks at his back, we entered his body, which contains a small-sized room;
it was even possible to ascend through his neck and look out at his ear! The face is in keeping
with the figure--stern and grand, and the architect (one can hardly say sculptor) has given
to it the majestic air and sublimity of the Appenines. But who can build up an image of the Alp?

We visited the factory on the estate, where wine and oil are made. The men had just brought
in a cart load of large wooden vessels, filled with grapes, which they were mashing with heavy
wooden pestles. When the grapes were pretty well reduced to pulp and juice, they emptied them
into an enormous tub, which they told us would be covered air-tight, and left for three or
four weeks, after which the wine would be drawn off at the bottom. They showed us also a great
stone mill for grinding olives; this estate of the Grand Duke produces five hundred barrels
of wine and a hundred and fifty of oil, every year. The former article is the universal beverage
of the laboring classes in Italy, or I might say of all classes; it is, however, the pure blood
of the grape, and although used in such quantities, one sees little drunkenness--far less than
in our own land.

Tuscany enjoys at present a more liberal government than any other part of Italy, and the people
are, in many respects, prosperous and happy. The Grand Duke, although enjoying almost absolute
privileges, is disposed to encourage every measure which may promote the welfare of his subjects.
The people are, indeed, very heavily taxed, but this is less severely felt by them, than it
would be by the inhabitants of colder climes. The soil produces with little labor all that
is necessary for their support; though kept constantly in a state of comparative poverty, they
appear satisfied with their lot, and rarely look further than the necessities of the present.
In love with the delightful climate, they cherish their country, fallen as she is, and are
rarely induced to leave her. Even the wealthier classes of the Italians travel very little;
they can learn the manners and habits of foreigners nearly as well in their own country as
elsewhere, and they prefer their own hills of olive and vine to the icy grandeur of the Alps
or the rich and garden-like beauty of England.

But, although this sweet climate, with its wealth of sunlight and balmy airs, may enchant the
traveler for awhile and make him wish at times that his whole life might be spent amid such
scenes, it exercises a most enervating influence on those who are born to its enjoyment. It
relaxes mental and physical energy, and disposes body and mind to dreamy inactivity. The Italians,
as a race, are indolent and effeminate. Of the moral dignity of man they have little conception.
Those classes who are engaged in active occupation seem even destitute of common honesty, practising
all kinds of deceits in the most open manner and apparently without the least shame. The state
of morals is lower than in any other country of Europe; what little virtue exists is found
among the peasants. Many of the most sacred obligations of society are universally violated,
and as a natural consequence, the people are almost entire strangers to that domestic happiness,
which constitutes the true enjoyment of life.

This dark shadow in the moral atmosphere of Italy hangs like a curse on her beautiful soil,
weakening the sympathies of citizens of freer lands with her fallen condition. I often feel
vividly the sentiment which Percival puts into the mouth of a Greek in slavery:

    "The spring may here with autumn twine
    And both combined may rule the year,
    And fresh-blown flowers and racy wine
    In frosted clusters still be near--
    Dearer the wild and snowy hills
    Where hale and ruddy Freedom smiles."

No people can ever become truly great or free, who are not virtuous. If the soul aspires for
liberty--pure and perfect liberty--it also aspires for everything that is noble in Truth, everything
that is holy in Virtue. It is greatly to be feared that all those nervous and impatient efforts
which have been made and are still being made by the Italian people to better their condition,
will be of little avail, until they set up a better standard of principle and make their private
actions more conformable with their ideas of political independence.

Oct. 22.--I attended to-day the fall races at the Cascine. This is a dairy farm of the Grand
Duke on the Arno, below the city; part of it, shaded with magnificent trees, has been made
into a public promenade and drive, which extends for three miles down the river. Towards the
lower end, on a smooth green lawn, is the race-course. To-day was the last of the season, for
which the best trials had been reserved; on passing out the gate at noon, we found a number
of carriages and pedestrians going the same way. It was the very perfection of autumn temperature,
and I do not remember to have ever seen so blue hills, so green meadows, so fresh air and so
bright sunshine combined in one scene before. All that gloom and coldness of which I lately
complained has vanished.

Traveling increases very much one's capacity for admiration. Every beautiful scene appears
as beautiful as if it had been the first; and although I may have seen a hundred times as lovely
a combination of sky and landscape, the pleasure which it awakens is never diminished. This
is one of the greatest blessings we enjoy--the freshness and glory which Nature wears to our
eyes forever. It shows that the soul never grows old--that the eye of age can take in the impression
of beauty with the same enthusiastic joy that leaped through the heart of childhood.

We found the crowd around the race-course but thin; half the people there, and all the horses,
appeared to be English. It was a good place to observe the beauty of Florence, which however,
may be done in a short time, as there is not much of it. There is beauty in Italy, undoubtedly,
but it is either among the peasants or the higher class of nobility. I will tell our American
women confidentially, for I know they have too much sense to be vain of it, that they surpass
the rest of the world as much in beauty as they do in intelligence and virtue. I saw in one
of the carriages the wife of Alexander Dumas, the French author. She is a large, fair complexioned
woman, and is now, from what cause I know not, living apart from her husband.

The jockeys paced up and down the fields, preparing their beautiful animals for the approaching
heat, and as the hour drew nigh the mounted dragoons busied themselves in clearing the space.
It was a one-mile course, to the end of the lawn and back. At last the bugle sounded, and off
went three steeds like arrows let fly. They passed us, their light limbs bounding over the
turf, a beautiful dark-brown taking the lead. We leaned over the railing and watched them eagerly.
The bell rang--they reached the other end--we saw them turn and come dashing back, nearer,
nearer; the crowd began to shout, and in a few seconds the brown one had won it by four or
five lengths. The fortunate horse was led around in triumph, and I saw an English lady, remarkable
for her betting propensities, come out from the crowd and kiss it in apparent delight.

After an interval, three others took the field--all graceful, spirited creatures. This was
a more exciting race than the first; they flew past us nearly abreast, and the crowd looked
after them in anxiety. They cleared the course like wild deer, and in a minute or two came
back, the racer of an English nobleman a short distance ahead. The jockey threw up his hand
in token of triumph as he approached the goal, and the people cheered him. It was a beautiful
sight to see those noble animals stretching to the utmost of their speed, as they dashed down
the grassy lawn. The lucky one always showed by his proud and erect carriage, his consciousness
of success.

Florence is fast becoming modernized. The introduction of gas, and the construction of the
railroad to Pisa, which is nearly completed, will make sad havoc with the air of poetry which
still lingers in its silent streets. There is scarcely a bridge, a tower, or a street, which
is not connected with some stirring association. In the Via San Felice, Raphael used to paint
when a boy; near the Ponte Santa Trinita stands Michael Angelo's house, with his pictures,
clothes, and painting implements, just as he left it three centuries ago; on the south side
of the Arno is the house of Galileo, and that of Machiavelli stands in an avenue near the Ducal
Palace. While threading my way through some dark, crooked streets in an unfrequented part of
the city, I noticed an old, untenanted house, bearing a marble tablet above the door. I drew
near and read:--"In this house of the Alighieri was born the Divine Poet!" It was the birth-place
of Dante!

Nov. 1.--Yesterday morning we were apprised of the safe arrival of a new scion of the royal
family in the world by the ringing of the city bells. To-day, to celebrate the event, the shops
were closed, and the people made a holiday of it. Merry chimes pealed out from every tower,
and discharges of cannon thundered up from the fortress. In the evening the dome of the Cathedral
was illuminated, and the lines of cupola, lantern, and cross were traced in flame on the dark
sky, like a crown of burning stars dropped from Heaven on the holy pile. I went in and walked
down the aisle, listening for awhile to the grand choral, while the clustered tapers under
the dome quivered and trembled, as if shaken by the waves of music which burst continually
within its lofty concave.

A few days ago Prince Corsini, Prime Minister of Tuscany, died at an advanced age. I saw his
body brought in solemn procession by night, with torches and tapers, to the church of Santa
Trinita. Soldiers followed with reversed arms and muffled drums, the band playing a funeral
march. I forced myself through the crowd into the church, which was hung with black and gold,
and listened to the long drawn chanting of the priests around the bier.

We lately visited the Florentine Museum. Besides the usual collection of objects of natural
history, there is an anatomical cabinet, very celebrated for its preparations in wax. All parts
of the human frame are represented so wonderfully exact, that students of medicine pursue their
studies here in summer with the same facility as from real "subjects." Every bone, muscle,
and nerve in the body is perfectly counterfeited, the whole forming a collection as curious
as it is useful. One chamber is occupied with representations of the plague of Rome, Milan,
and Florence. They are executed with horrible truth to nature, but I regretted afterwards having
seen them. There are enough forms of beauty and delight in the world on which to employ the
eye, without making it familiar with scenes which can only be remembered with a shudder.

We derive much pleasure from the society of the American artists who are now residing in Florence.
At the houses of Powers, and Brown, the painter, we spend many delightful evenings in the company
of our gifted countrymen. They are drawn together by a kindred, social feeling as well as by
their mutual aims, and form among themselves a society so unrestrained, American-like, that
the traveler who meets them forgets his absence for a time. These noble representatives of
our country, all of whom possess the true, inborn spirit of republicanism, have made the American
name known and respected in Florence. Powers, especially, who is intimate with many of the
principal Italian families, is universally esteemed. The Grand Duke has more than once visited
his studio and expressed the highest admiration of his talents.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

AMERICAN ART IN FLORENCE.

I have seen Ibrahim Pacha, the son of old Mehemet Ali, driving in his carriage through the
streets. He is hero on a visit from Lucca, where he has been spending some time on account
of his health. He is a man of apparently fifty years of age; his countenance wears a stern
and almost savage look, very consistent with the character he bears and the political part
he has played. He is rather portly in person, the pale olive of his complexion contrasting
strongly with a beard perfectly white. In common with all his attendants, he wears the high
red cap, picturesque blue tunic and narrow trowsers of the Egyptians. There is scarcely a man
of them whose face with its wild, oriental beauty, does not show to advantage among us civilized
and prosaic Christians.

In Florence, and indeed through all Italy, there is much reason for our country to be proud
of the high stand her artists are taking. The sons of our rude western clime, brought up without
other resources than their own genius and energy, now fairly rival those, who from their cradle
upwards have drawn inspiration and ambition from the glorious masterpieces of the old painters
and sculptors. Wherever our artists are known, they never fail to create a respect for American
talent, and to dissipate the false notions respecting our cultivation and refinement, which
prevail in Europe. There are now eight or ten of our painters and sculptors in Florence, some
of whom, I do not hesitate to say, take the very first rank among living artists.

I have been highly gratified in visiting the studio of Mr. G.L. Brown, who, as a landscape
painter, is destined to take a stand second to few, since the days of Claude Lorraine. He is
now without a rival in Florence, or perhaps in Italy, and has youth, genius and a plentiful
stock of the true poetic enthusiasm for his art, to work for him far greater triumphs. His
Italian landscapes have that golden mellowness and transparency of atmosphere which give such
a charm to the real scenes, and one would think he used on his pallette, in addition to the
more substantial colors, condensed air and sunlight and the liquid crystal of streams. He has
wooed Nature like a lover, and she has not withheld her sympathy. She has taught him how to
raise and curve her trees, load their boughs with foliage, and spread underneath them the broad,
cool shadows--to pile up the shattered crag, and steep the long mountain range in the haze
of alluring distance.

He has now nearly finished, a large painting of "Christ Preaching in the Wilderness," which
is of surprising beauty. You look upon one of the fairest scenes of Judea. In front, the rude
multitude are grouped on one side, in the edge of a magnificent forest; on the other side,
towers up a rough wall of rock and foliage that stretches back into the distance, where some
grand blue mountains are piled against the sky, and a beautiful stream, winding through the
middle of the picture, slides away out of the foreground. Just emerging from the shade of one
of the cliffs, is the benign figure of the Saviour, with the warm light which breaks from behind
the trees, falling around him as he advances. There is a smaller picture of the "Shipwreck
of St. Paul," in which he shows equal skill in painting a troubled sea and breaking storm.
He is one of the young artists from whom we have most to hope.

I have been extremely interested in looking over a great number of sketches made by Mr. Kellogg,
of Cincinnati, during a tour through Egypt, Arabia Petræa and Palestine. He visited many places
out of the general route of travelers, and beside the great number of landscape views, brought
away many sketches of the characters and costumes of the Orient. From some of these he has
commenced paintings, which, as his genius is equal to his practice, will be of no ordinary
value. Indeed, some of these must give him at once an established reputation in America. In
Constantinople, where he resided several months, he enjoyed peculiar advantges for the exercise
of his art, through the favor and influence of Mr. Carr, the American, and Sir Stratford Canning,
the British Minister. I saw a splendid diamond cup, presented to him by Riza Pacha, the late
Grand Vizier. The sketches he brought from thence and from the valleys of Phrygia and the mountain
solitudes of old Olympus, are of great interest and value. Among his later paintings, I might
mention an angel, whose countenance beams with a rapt and glorious beauty. A divine light shines
through all the features and heightens the glow of adoration to an expression all spiritual
and immortal. If Mr. Kellogg will give us a few more of these heavenly conceptions, we will
place him on a pedestal, little lower than that of Guido.

Greenough, who has been sometime in Germany, returned lately to Florence, where he has a colossal
group in progress for the portico of the Capitol. I have seen part of it, which is nearly finished
in the marble. It shows a backwoodsman just triumphing in the struggle with an Indian; another
group to be added, will represent the wife and child of the former. The colossal size of the
statues gives a grandeur to the action, as if it were a combat of Titans; there is a consciousness
of power, an expression of lofty disdain in the expansion of the hunter's nostril and the proud
curve of his lip, that might become a god. The spirit of action, of breathing, life-like exertion,
so much more difficult to infuse into the marble than that of repose, is perfectly attained.
I will not enter into a more particular description, as it will probably be sent to the United
States in a year or two. It is a magnificent work; the best, unquestionably, that Greenough
has yet made. The subject, and the grandeur he has given it in the execution, will ensure it
a much more favorable reception than a false taste gave to his Washington.

Mr. C.B. Ives, a young sculptor from Connecticut, has not disappointed the high promise he
gave before leaving home. I was struck with some of his busts in Philadelphia, particularly
those of Mrs. Sigourney and Joseph R. Chandler, and it has been no common pleasure to visit
his studio here in Florence, and look on some of his ideal works. He has lately made two models,
which, when finished in marble, will be works of great beauty. They will contribute greatly
to his reputation here and in America. One of these represents a child of four or five years
of age, holding in his hand a dead bird, on which he is gazing, with childish grief and wonder,
that it is so still and drooping. It is a beautiful thought; the boy is leaning forward as
he sits, holding the lifeless playmate close in his hands, his sadness touched with a vague
expression, as if he could not yet comprehend the idea of death.

The other is of equal excellence, in a different style; it is a bust of "Jephthah's daughter,"
when the consciousness of her doom first flashes upon her. The face and bust are beautiful
with the bloom of perfect girlhood. A simple robe covers her breast, and her rich hair is gathered
up behind, and bound with a slender fillet. Her head, of the pure classical mould, is bent
forward, as if weighed down by the shock, and there is a heavy drooping in the mouth and eyelids,
that denotes a sudden and sickening agony. It is not a violent, passionate grief, but a deep
and almost paralyzing emotion--a shock from which the soul will finally rebound, strengthened
to make the sacrifice.

Would it not be better for some scores of our rich merchants to lay out their money on statues
and pictures, instead of balls and spendthrift sons? A few such expenditures, properly directed,
would do much for the advancement of the fine arts. An occasional golden blessing, bestowed
on genius, might be returned on the giver, in the fame he had assisted in creating. There seems,
however, to be at present a rapid increase in refined taste, and a better appreciation of artistic
talent, in our country. And as an American, nothing has made me feel prouder than this, and
the steadily increasing reputation of our artists.

Of these, no one has done more within the last few years, than Powers. With a tireless and
persevering energy, such as could have belonged to few but Americans, he has already gained
a name in his art, that posterity will pronounce in the same breath with Phidias, Michael Angelo
and Thorwaldsen. I cannot describe the enjoyment I have derived from looking at his matchless
works. I should hesitate in giving my own imperfect judgment of their excellence, if I had
not found it to coincide with that of many others who are better versed in the rules of art.
The sensation which his "Greek Slave" produced in England, has doubtless ere this been breezed
across the Atlantic, and I see by the late American papers that they are growing familiar with
his fame. When I read a notice seven or eight years ago, of the young sculptor of Cincinnati,
whose busts exhibited so much evidence of genius, I little dreamed I should meet him in Florence,
with the experience of years of toil added to his early enthusiasm, and every day increasing
his renown.

You would like to hear of his statue of Eve, which men of taste pronounce one of the finest
works of modern times. A more perfect figure never filled my eye. I have seen the masterpieces
of Thorwaldsen, Dannecker and Canova, and the Venus de Medici, but I have seen nothing yet
that can exceed the beauty of this glorious statue. So completely did the first view excite
my surprise and delight, and thrill every feeling that awakes at the sight of the Beautiful,
that my mind dwelt intensely on it for days afterwards. This is the Eve of Scripture--the Eve
of Milton--mother of mankind and fairest of all her race. With the full and majestic beauty
of ripened womanhood, she wears the purity of a world as yet unknown to sin. With the hearing
of a queen, there is in her countenance the softness and grace of a tender, loving woman;

    "God-like erect, with native honor clad
    In naked majesty."

She holds the fatal fruit extended in her hand, and her face expresses the struggle between
conscience, dread and desire. The serpent, whose coiled length under the leaves and flowers
entirely surrounds her, thus forming a beautiful allegorical symbol, is watching her decision
from an ivied trunk at her side. Her form is said to be fully as perfect as the Venus de Medici,
and from its greater size, has an air of conscious and ennobling dignity. The head is far superior
in beauty, and soul speaks from every feature of the countenance. I add a few stanzas which
the contemplation of this statue called forth. Though unworthy the subject, they may perhaps
faintly shadow the sentiment which Powers has so eloquently embodied in marble:

    THE "EVE" OF POWERS.

    A faultless being from the marble sprung,
         She stands in beauty there!
    As when the grace of Eden 'round her clung--
         Fairest, where all was fair!

    Pure, as when first from God's creating hand
         She came, on man to shine;
    So seems she now, in living stone to stand--
         A mortal, yet divine!

    The spark the Grecian from Olympus caught,
         Left not a loftier trace;
    The daring of the sculptor's hand has wrought
         A soul in that sweet face!
    He won as well the sacred fire from heaven.
         God-sent, not stolen down,
    And no Promethean doom for him is given,
         But ages of renown!

    The soul of beauty breathes around that form
         A more enchanting spell;
    There blooms each virgin grace, ere yet the storm
         On blighted Eden fell!
    The first desire upon her lovely brow,
         Raised by an evil power;
    Doubt, longing, dread, are in her features now--
         It is the trial-hour!

    How every thought that strives within her breast,
         In that one glance is shown!
    Say, can that heart of marble be at rest,
         Since spirit warms the stone?
    Will not those limbs, of so divine a mould,
         Move, when her thought is o'er--
    When she has yielded to the tempter's hold
         And Eden blooms no more?

    Art, like a Phoenix, springs from dust again--
         She cannot pass away!
    Bound down in gloom, she breaks apart the chain
         And struggles up today!
    The flame, first kindled in the ages gone,
         Has never ceased to burn,
    And westward now, appears the kindling dawn,
         Which marks the day's return!

The "Greek Slave" is now in the possession of Mr. Grant, of London, and I only saw the clay
model. Like the Eve, it is a form that one's eye tells him is perfect, unsurpassed; but it
is the budding loveliness of a girl, instead of the perfected beauty of a woman. In England
it has been pronounced superior to Canova's works, and indeed I have seen nothing of his, that
could be placed beside it.

Powers has now nearly finished a most exquisite figure of a fisher-boy, standing on the shore,
with his net and rudder in one hand, while with the other he holds a shell to his ear and listens
if it murmur to him of a gathering storm. His slight, boyish limbs are full of grace and delicacy--you
feel that the youthful frame could grow up into nothing less than an Apollo. Then the head--how
beautiful! Slightly bent on one side, with the rim of the shell thrust under his locks, lips
gently parted, and the face wrought up to the most hushed and breathless expression, he listens
whether the sound be deeper than its wont. It makes you hold your breath and listen, to look
at it. Mrs. Jameson somewhere remarks that repose or suspended motion, should be always chosen
for a statue that shall present a perfect, unbroken impression to the mind. If this be true,
the enjoyment must be much more complete where not only the motion, but almost breath and thought
are suspended, and all the faculties wrought into one hushed and intense sensation. In gazing
on this exquisite conception, I feel my admiration filled to the utmost, without that painful,
aching impression, so often left by beautiful works. It glides into my vision like a form long
missed from the gallery of beauty I am forming in my mind, and I gaze on it with an ever new
and increasing delight.

Now I come to the last and fairest of all--the divine Proserpine. Not the form, for it is but
a bust rising from a capital of acanthus leaves, which curve around the breast and arms and
turn gracefully outward, but the face, whose modest maiden beauty can find no peer among goddesses
or mortals. So looked she on the field of Ennæ--that "fairer flower," so soon to be gathered
by "gloomy Dis." A slender crown of green wheatblades, showing alike her descent from Ceres
and her virgin years, circles her head. Truly, if Pygmalion stole his fire to warm such a form
as this, Jove should have pardoned him. Of Powers' busts it is unnecessary for me to speak.
He has lately finished a very beautiful one of the Princess Demidoff, daughter of Jerome Bonaparte.

We will soon, I hope, have the "Eve" in America. Powers has generously refused many advantageous
offers for it, that he might finally send it home; and his country, therefore, will possess
this statue, his first ideal work. She may well be proud of the genius and native energy of
her young artist, and she should repay them by a just and liberal encouragement.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

AN ADVENTURE ON THE GREAT ST. BERNARD--WALKS AROUND FLORENCE.

Nov. 9.--A few days ago I received a letter from my cousin at Heidelberg, describing his solitary
walk from Genoa over the Alps, and through the western part of Switzerland. The news of his
safe arrival dissipated the anxiety we were beginning to feel, on account of his long silence,
while it proved that our fears concerning the danger of such a journey were not altogether
groundless. He met with a startling adventure on the Great St. Bernard, which will be best
described by an extract from his own letter:

       *       *       *       *       *

"Such were my impressions of Rome. But leaving the 'Eternal City,' I must hasten on to give
you a description of an adventure I met with in crossing the Alps, omitting for the present
an account of the trip from Rome to Genoa, and my lonely walk through Sardinia. When I had
crossed the mountain range north of Genoa, the plains of Piedmont stretched out before me.
I could see the snowy sides and summits of the Alps more than one hundred miles distant, looking
like white, fleecy clouds on a summer day. It was a magnificent prospect, and I wonder not
that the heart of the Swiss soldier, after years of absence in foreign service, beats with
joy when he again looks on his native mountains.

"As I approached nearer, the weather changed, and dark, gloomy clouds enveloped them, so that
they seemed to present an impassible barrier to the lands beyond them. At Ivrea, I entered
the interesting valley of Aosta. The whole valley, fifty miles in length, is inhabited by miserable
looking people, nearly one half of them being afflicted with goitre and cretinism. They looked
more idiotic and disgusting than any I have ever seen, and it was really painful to behold
such miserable specimens of humanity dwelling amid the grandest scenes of nature. Immediately
after arriving in the town of Aosta, situated at the upper end of the valley, I began, alone,
the ascent of the Great St. Bernard. It was just noon, and the clouds on the mountains indicated
rain. The distance from Aosta to the monastery or hospice of St. Bernard, is about twenty English
miles.

"At one o'clock it commenced raining vary hard, and to gain shelter I went into a rude hut;
but it was filled with so many of those idiotic cretins, lying down on the earthy floor with
the dogs and other animals, that I was glad to leave them as soon as the storm had abated in
some degree. I walked rapidly for three hours, when I met a traveler and his guide descending
the mountain. I asked him in Italian the distance to the hospice, and he undertook to answer
me in French, but the words did not seem to flow very fluently, so I said quickly, observing
then that he was an Englishman: 'Try some other language, if you please, sir!' He replied instantly
in his vernacular: 'You have a d--d long walk before you, and you'll have to hurry to get to
the top before night!' Thanking him, we shook hands and hurried on, he downward and I upward.
About eight miles from the summit, I was directed into the wrong path by an ignorant boy who
was tending sheep, and went a mile out of the course, towards Mont Blanc, before I discovered
my mistake. I hurried back into the right path again, and soon overtook another boy ascending
the mountain, who asked me if he might accompany me as he was alone, to which I of course answered,
yes; but when we began to enter the thick clouds that covered the mountains, he became alarmed,
and said he would go no farther. I tried to encourage him by saying we had only five miles
more to climb, but, turning quickly, he ran down the path and was soon out of sight.

"After a long and most toilsome ascent, spurred on as I was by the storm and the approach of
night, I saw at last through the clouds a little house, which I supposed might be a part of
the monastery, but it turned out to be only a house of refuge, erected by the monks to take
in travelers in extreme cases or extraordinary danger. The man who was staying there, told
me the monastery was a mile and a half further, and thinking therefore that I could soon reach
it, I started out again, although darkness was approaching. In a short time the storm began
in good earnest, and the cold winds blew with the greatest fury. It grew dark very suddenly
and I lost sight of the poles which are placed along the path to guide the traveler. I then
ran on still higher, hoping to find them again, but without success. The rain and snow fell
thick, and although I think I am tolerably courageous, I began to be alarmed, for it was impossible
to know in what direction I was going. I could hear the waterfalls dashing and roaring down
the mountain hollows on each side of me; in the gloom, the foam and leaping waters resembled
streaming fires. I thought of turning back to find the little house of refuge again, but it
seemed quite as dangerous and uncertain as to go forward. After the fatigue I had undergone
since noon, it would have been dangerous to be obliged to stay, out all night in the driving
storm, which was every minute increasing in coldness and intensity.

"I stopped and shouted aloud, hoping I might be somewhere near the monastery, but no answer
came--no noise except the storm and the roar of the waterfalls. I climbed up the rocks nearly
a quarter of a mile higher, and shouted again. I listened with anxiety for two or three minutes,
but hearing no response, I concluded to find a shelter for the night under a ledge of rocks.
While looking around me, I fancied I heard in the distance a noise like the trampling of hoofs
over the rocks, and thinking travelers might be near, I called aloud for the third time. After
wailing a moment, a voice came ringing on my ears through the clouds, like one from Heaven
in response to my own. My heart beat quickly; I hurried in the direction from which the sound
came, and to my joy found two men--servants of the monastery--who were driving their mules
into shelter. Never in my whole life was I more glad to hear the voice of man. These men conducted
me to the monastery, one-fourth of a mile higher, built by the side of a lake at the summit
of the pass, while on each side, the mountains, forever covered with snow, tower some thousands
of feet higher.

"Two or three of the noble St. Bernard dogs barked a welcome as we approached, which brought
a young monk to the door. I addressed him in German, but to my surprise he answered in broken
English. He took me into a warm room and gave me a suit of clothes, such as are worn by the
monks, for my dress, as well as my package of papers, were completely saturated with rain.
I sat down to supper in company with till the monks of the Hospice, I in my monkish robe looking
like one of the holy order. You would have laughed to have seen me in their costume. Indeed,
I felt almost satisfied to turn monk, as everything seemed so comfortable in the warm supper
room, with its blazing wood fire, while outside raged the storm still more violently. But when
I thought of their voluntary banishment from the world, up in that high pass of the Alps, and
that the affection of woman never gladdened their hearts, I was ready to renounce my monkish
dress next morning, without reluctance.

It seemed to add a tenfold interest to the poem, to read it on old St. Bernard. In the morning
I visited the house where are kept the bodies of the travelers, who perish in crossing the
mountain. It is filled with corpses, ranged in rows, and looking like mummies, for the cold
is so intense that they will keep for years without decaying, and are often recognized and
removed by their friends.

"Of my descent to Martigny, my walk down the Rhone, and along the shores of Lake Leman, my
visit to the prison of Chilian and other wanderings across Switzerland, my pleasure in seeing
the old river Rhine again, and my return to Heidelberg at night, with the bright moon shining
on the Neckar and the old ruined castle, I can now say no more, nor is it necessary, for are
not all these things 'written in my book of Chronicles,' to be seen by you when we meet again
in Paris?

Ever yours, FRANK."

Dec. 16.--I took a walk lately to the tower of Galileo. In company with three friends, I left
Florence by the Porta Romana, and ascended the Poggie Imperiale. This beautiful avenue, a mile
and a quarter in length, leading up a gradual ascent to a villa of the Grand Duke, is bordered
with splendid cypresses and evergreen oaks, and the grass banks are always fresh and green,
so that even in winter it calls up a remembrance of summer. In fact, winter does not wear the
scowl here that he has at home; he is robed rather in a threadbare garment of autumn, and it
is only high up on the mountain tops, out of the reach of his enemy, the sun, that he dares
to throw it off, and bluster about with his storms and scatter down his snow-flakes. The roses
still bud and bloom in the hedges, the emerald of the meadows is not a whit paler, the sun
looks down lovingly as yet, and there are only the white helmets of some of the Appenines,
with the leafless mulberries and vines, to tell us that we have changed seasons.

A quarter of an hour's walk, part of it by a path through an olive orchard, brought us to the
top of a hill, which was surmounted by a square, broken, ivied tower, forming part of a storehouse
for the produce of the estate. We entered, saluted by a dog, and passing through a court-yard,
in which stood two or three carts full of brown olives, found our way to the rickety staircase.
I spared my sentiment in going up, thinking the steps might have been renewed since Galileo's
time, but the glorious landscape which opened around us when we reached the top, time could
not change, and I gazed upon it with interest and emotion, as my eye took in those forms which
had once been mirrored in the philosopher's. Let me endeavor to describe the features of the scene.

Fancy yourself lifted to the summit of a high hill, whose base slopes down to the valley of
the Arno, and looking northward. Behind you is a confusion of hill and valley, growing gradually
dimmer away to the horizon. Before and below you is a vale, with Florence and her great domes
and towers in its lap, and across its breadth of five miles the mountain of Fiesole. To the
west it stretches away unbroken for twenty miles, covered thickly with white villas--like a
meadow of daisies, magnified. A few miles to the east the plain is rounded with mountains,
between whose interlocking bases we can see the brown current of the Arno. Some of their peaks,
as well as the mountain of Vallombrosa, along the eastern sky, are tipped with snow. Imagine
the air filled with a thick blue mist, like a semi-transparent veil, which softens every thing
into dreamy indistinctness, the sunshine falling slantingly through this in spots, touching
the landscape here and there as with a sudden blaze of fire, and you will complete the picture.
Does it not repay your mental flight across the Atlantic.

One evening, on coming out of the cafè, the moon was shining so brightly and clearly, that
I involuntarily bent my steps towards the river; I walked along the Lung'Arno, enjoying the
heavenly moonlight--"the night of cloudless climes and starry skies!" A purer silver light
never kissed the brow of Endymion. The brown Arno took into his breast "the redundant glory,"
and rolled down his pebbly bed with a more musical ripple; opposite stretched the long mass
of buildings--the deep arches that rose from the water were filled with black shadow, and the
irregular fronts of the houses touched with a mellow glow. The arches of the upper bridge were
in shadow, cutting their dark outline on the silvery sweep of the Appenines, far up the stream.
A veil of luminous gray covered the hill of San Miniato, with its towers and cypress groves,
and there was a crystal depth in the atmosphere, as if it shone with its own light. The whole
scene affected me as something too glorious to be real--painful from the very intensity of
its beauty. Three moons ago, at the foot of Vallombrosa, I saw the Appenines flooded with the
same silvery gush, and thought also, then, that I had seen the same moon amid far dearer scenes,
but never before the same dreamy and sublime glory showered down from her pale orb. Some solitary
lights were burning along the river, and occasionally a few Italians passed by, wrapped in
their mantles. I went home to the Piazza del Granduca as the light, pouring into the square
from behind the old palace, fell over the fountain of Neptune and sheathed in silver the back
of the colossal god.

Whoever looks on the valley of the Arno from San Miniato, and observes the Appenine range,
of which Fiesole is one, bounding it on the north, will immediately notice to the northwest
a double peak rising high above all the others. The bare, brown forehead of this, known by
the name of Monte Morello, seemed so provokingly to challenge an ascent, that we determined
to try it. So we started early, the day before yesterday, from the Porta San Gallo, with nothing
but the frosty grass and fresh air to remind us of the middle of December. Leaving the Prato
road, at the base of the mountain, we passed Careggi, a favorite farm of Lorenzo the Magnificent,
and entered a narrow glen where a little brook was brawling down its rocky channel. Here and
there stood a rustic mill, near which women were busy spreading their washed clothes on the
grass. Following the footpath, we ascended a long eminence to a chapel where some boys were
amusing themselves with a common country game. They have a small wheel, around which they wind
a rope, and, running a little distance to increase the velocity, let it off with a sudden jerk.
On a level road it can be thrown upwards of a quarter of a mile.

From the chapel, a gradual ascent along the ridge of a hill brought us to the foot of the peak,
which rose high before us, covered with bare rocks and stunted oaks. The wind blew coldly from
a snowy range to the north, as we commenced ascending with a good will. A few shepherds were
leading their flocks along the sides, to browse on the grass and withered bushes, and we started
up a large hare occasionally from his leafy covert. The ascent was very toilsome; I was obliged
to stop frequently on account of the painful throbbing of my heart, which made it difficult
to breathe. When the summit was gained, we lay down awhile on the leeward side to recover ourselves.

