"It makes no difference what you wish. The idea of an orthodox physician consulting the wishes
of his patient! My practical skill sees your need of breakfast."

"Have you had any yourself?" he asked, again starting up, and looking searchingly at her.

"Well, I have had a cup of coffee," she replied, coloring a little.

"What a brute I am!" he groaned.

"In that charge upon yourself you strongly assert the possession of an animal nature, and therefore
of course the need of a breakfast."

"May I be choked by the first mouthful if I touch anything before I know you have had your own."

"What an awful abjuration! How can you swear so before a lady, Mr. Gregory?"

"No, it is a solemn vow."

"Then I must take my breakfast with you, for with your disposition to doubt I don't see how
you can 'know' anything about it otherwise."

"That is better than I hoped. I will eat anything you bring on those conditions, if it does
choke me--and I know it will."

"A fine compliment to my cooking," she retorted and laughingly left the room.

Gregory could not believe himself the haggard wretch that Mr. Walton had found two hours since.
Then he was ready to welcome death as a deliverer. Insane man! As if death ever delivered any
from evil but the good! But so potent had been the sweet wine of Annie's ministry that his
chilled and benumbed heart was beginning to glow with a faint warmth of hope and comfort. Morbidness
could no more exist in her presence than shadows on the sunny side of trees. With her full
knowledge of the immediate cause of his suffering, and with her unusual tact, she had applied
balm to body and spirit at the same time. The sharp, cutting agony in his head had been charmed
away. The paroxysm had passed, and the dull ache that remained seemed nothing in comparison--merely
the heavy swell of the departed storm.

He forgot himself, the source of all his trouble, in thinking about Miss Walton. The plain
girl, as he had at first regarded her, with a weak, untried character that he had expected
to topple over by the breath of a little flattery, now seemed divinely beautiful and strong.
She reminded him of the graceful, symmetrical elm, which, though bending to the tempest, is
rarely broken or uprooted.

He hardly hoped that she would give him credit for the real state of his mind which had led
to his ready promise of secrecy. To the counterfeiter's wretched companion he had seemed the
weakest and meanest of cowards, and if the story were generally known he would appear in the
same light to the world. To his intensely proud nature this would be intolerable. And why should
it not be known? If Miss Walton chose to regard his choice as one of cowardice, how could he
prove, even to her, that it was not?

Moreover, his low estimate of human nature led him to believe that even Annie would use him
as a dark background for her heroism; and he well knew that when such a story is once started,
society's strongest tendency is to exaggerate man's pusillanimity and woman's courage. He shuddered
as he saw himself growing blacker and meaner in every fireside and street corner narration
of the strange tale, till at last his infamy should pass into one of the traditions of the
place. A man like Gregory could not long have endured such a prospect. He would have died,
either by every physical power speedily giving way under mental anguish, or by his own hand;
or, if he had lived, reason would have dropped its sceptre and become the sport of wild thoughts
and fancies.

Little wonder that Annie appeared an angel of light when she stood between him and such a future.
The ugliest hag would have been glorified and loved in the same position. But when she did
this with her own peculiar grace and tact, as a matter of justice, his gratitude and admiration
knew no bounds. He was in a fair way to become an idolater and worship the country girl he
had once sneered at, as no pictured Madonna was ever revered even in superstitious Italy. Besides
placing him under personal obligation, she had, by tests certain and terrible, proved herself
true and strong in a world that he believed to be, in the main, utterly false at heart. It
is one of our most natural instincts to trust and lean upon something, and Annie Walton seemed
one whose friendship he could value above life.

He did not even then realize, in his glad sense of relief, that in escaping the charge of cowardice
he fell upon the other horn of the dilemma, namely, lack of principle--that the best explanation
of his conduct admitted that he was indifferent to right and wrong, and even to the most serious
crime against society, so long as he was not personally and immediately injured. He had acted
on the selfish creed that a man is a fool who puts himself to serious trouble to serve the
public. The fact that he did not even dream that Annie would make the noble stand she did proves
how far selfishness can take a man out of his true course when he throws overboard compass
and chart and lets himself drift.

But in the world's code (which was his) cowardice is the one deadly sin. His lack of anything
like Christian principle was a familiar fact to him, and did not hurt him among those with
whom he associated.

Even Annie, woman-like, could more readily forgive all his faults than a display of that weakness
which is most despised in a man. But she too was sufficiently familiar with the world not to
be repelled or shocked by a life which, compared with all true, noble standards, was sadly
lacking. And yet she was the very last one to be dazzled by a fast, brilliant man of the world.
She had been too well educated for that, and had been early taught to distinguish between solid
worth and mere tinsel. Her native powers of observation were strong, and her father, and mother
also before she died, had given her opportunities for exercising them. Instead of mere assertions
as to what was right and wrong and general lecturing on the subject, they had aimed to show
her right and wrong embodied in human lives. They made her feel that God wanted her to do right
for the same reason that they did, because He loved her. First in Bible narrative told in bedtime
stories, then in history and biography, and finally in the experience of those around them,
she had been shown the happy contrast of good, God- pleasing life with that which is selfish
and wicked. So thorough and practical had been the teaching in this respect, and so impressed
was she by the lesson, that she would as soon have planted in her flower- bed the seeds of
tender annuals on the eve of autumn frosts, and expected bloom in chill December, as to enter
upon a course that God frowns upon, and look for happiness. Her father often said, "A human
being opposing God's will is like a ship beating against wind and tide to certain wreck."

An evil life appeared therefore to her a moral madness, under the malign influence of which
people were like the mentally deranged who with strange perversity hate their best friends
and cunningly watch for chances of self-destruction. While on one hand she shrunk from them
with something of the repulsion which many feel toward the unsound in mind, on the other she
cherished the deepest pity for them. Knowing how full a remedy ever exists in Him whose word
and touch removed humanity's most desperate ills, it was her constant wish and effort to lead
as many as possible to this Divine Friend. If she had been like many sincere but selfish religionists,
she would have said of Gregory, "He is not congenial. We have nothing in common," and, wrapped
in her own spiritual pleasures and pursuits, would have shunned, ignored, and forgotten him.
But she chiefly saw his pressing need of help, and said to herself, "If I would be like my
Master, I must help him."

Gregory at first had looked upon himself as immeasurably superior to the plain country girl.
He little imagined that she at the same time had a profound pity for him, and that this fact
would become his best chance for life. She had not forgotten the merciful conspiracy entered
into the second evening after his arrival, but was earnestly seeking to carry out its purposes.
In order to do this, she was anxious to gain his good-will and confidence, and now saw with
gratitude that their adventure on the mountain, that had threatened to end in death, might
be the beginning of a new and happy life. She exulted over the hold she had gained upon him,
not as the selfish gloat over one within their power, whom they can use for personal ends--not
as the coquette smiles when another human victim is laid upon the altar of her vanity, but
as the angels of heaven rejoice when there is even a chance of one sinner's repentance.

And yet Annie had no intention of "talking religion" to him in any formal way, save as the
subject came up naturally; but she hoped to live it, and suggest it to him in such an attractive
form that he would desire it for his own sake.

But her chief hope was in the fact that she prayed for him; and she no more expected to be
unheard and unanswered than that her kind father would listen with a stony face to some earnest
request of hers.

But Annie was not one to go solemnly to work to compass an event that would cause joy in heaven.
She would ask one to be a Christian as she would invite a captive to leave his dungeon, or
tell the sick how to be well. She saw that morbid gloom had become almost a disease with Gregory,
and she proposed to cure him with sunshine.

And sunshine embodied she seemed to him as she returned, her face glowing with exercise and
close acquaintance with the kitchen-range. In each hand she carried a dish, while Hannah followed
with a tray on which smoked the most appetizing of breakfasts.

"Your rash vow," she said, "has caused you long waiting. I'm none of your ethereal heroines,
but have a craving for solids served in quantity and variety. And while I could have soon got
your breakfast it was no bagatelle to get mine."

How fresh and bright she looked saying all this! and he ejaculated, "Deliver me from the ghastly
creatures you call 'ethereal heroines.'"

"Indeed, sir," she retorted, "if you can't deliver yourself from them you shall have no help
from me. But let us at once enter upon the solemnities, and as you have a spark of gallantry,
see to it that you pay my cookery proper compliment."

"Your 'cookery,' forsooth!" said he, with something of her own light tone. "That I should find
Miss Walton stealing Zibbie's laurels!"

"Chuckle when you find her doing it. Hannah, who prepared this breakfast?"

"Yourself, miss," answered the woman, with an admiring grin.

"That will do, Hannah; we will wait upon ourselves. Shame on you, sir! You are no connoisseur,
since you cannot tell a lady's work from a kitchen-maid's. Moreover, you have shown that wretched
doubting disposition again."

Now that they were alone, Gregory said, earnestly, "I shall never doubt you again."

"I hope you never will doubt that I wish to do you good, Mr. Gregory," she replied, passing
him a cup of tea.

"You have done me more good in a few brief hours than I ever hoped to receive. Miss Walton,
how can I repay you?"

"By being a better friend to yourself. Commence by eating this."

He did not find it very difficult to comply. After a little time he said, "But my conscience
condemns me for caring too much for myself." "And no doubt your conscience is right. The idea
of being a friend to yourself and going against your conscience!"

"Then I have ever been my own worst enemy."

"I can believe that, and so you'll continue to be if you don't take another piece of toast."

