Monday, March 6, A.M.--Roused the hands at 7.30. Wilson, Bowers, Garrard, and I went out to
Castle Rock. We met Evans just short of his camp and found the loads had been dragged up the
hill. Oates and Keohane had gone back to lead on the ponies. At the top of the ridge we harnessed
men and ponies to the sledges and made rapid progress on a good surface towards the hut. The
weather grew very thick towards the end of the march, with all signs of a blizzard. We unharnessed
the ponies at the top of Ski slope--Wilson guided them down from rock patch to rock patch;
the remainder of us got down a sledge and necessaries over the slope. It is a ticklish business
to get the sledge along the ice foot, which is now all blue ice ending in a drop to the sea.
One has to be certain that the party has good foothold. All reached the hut in safety. The
ponies have admirably comfortable quarters under the verandah.

After some cocoa we fetched in the rest of the dogs from the Gap and another sledge from the
hill. It had ceased to snow and the wind had gone down slightly. Turned in with much relief
to have all hands and the animals safely housed.

Tuesday, March 7, A.M.--Yesterday went over to Pram Point with Wilson. We found that the corner
of sea ice in Pram Point Bay had not gone out--it was crowded with seals. We killed a young
one and carried a good deal of the meat and some of the blubber back with us.

Meanwhile the remainder of the party had made some progress towards making the hut more comfortable.
In the afternoon we all set to in earnest and by supper time had wrought wonders.

We have made a large L-shaped inner apartment with packing-cases, the intervals stopped with
felt. An empty kerosene tin and some firebricks have been made into an excellent little stove,
which has been connected to the old stove-pipe. The solider fare of our meals is either stewed
or fried on this stove whilst the tea or cocoa is being prepared on a primus.

The temperature of the hut is low, of course, but in every other respect we are absolutely
comfortable. There is an unlimited quantity of biscuit, and our discovery at Pram Point means
an unlimited supply of seal meat. We have heaps of cocoa, coffee, and tea, and a sufficiency
of sugar and salt. In addition a small store of luxuries, chocolate, raisins, lentils, oatmeal,
sardines, and jams, which will serve to vary the fare. One way and another we shall manage
to be very comfortable during our stay here, and already we can regard it as a temporary home.

Thursday, March 9, A.M.--Yesterday and to-day very busy about the hut and overcoming difficulties
fast. The stove threatened to exhaust our store of firewood. We have redesigned it so that
it takes only a few chips of wood to light it and then continues to give great heat with blubber
alone. To-day there are to be further improvements to regulate the draught and increase the
cooking range. We have further housed in the living quarters with our old Discovery winter
awning, and begin already to retain the heat which is generated inside. We are beginning to
eat blubber and find biscuits fried in it to be delicious.

We really have everything necessary for our comfort and only need a little more experience
to make the best of our resources. The weather has been wonderfully, perhaps ominously, fine
during the last few days. The sea has frozen over and broken up several times already. The
warm sun has given a grand opportunity to dry all gear.

Yesterday morning Bowers went with a party to pick up the stores rescued from the floe last
week. Evans volunteered to join the party with Meares, Keohane, Atkinson, and Gran. They started
from the hut about 10 A.M.; we helped them up the hill, and at 7.30 I saw them reach the camp
containing the gear, some 12 miles away. I don't expect them in till to-morrow night.

It is splendid to see the way in which everyone is learning the ropes, and the resource which
is being shown. Wilson as usual leads in the making of useful suggestions and in generally
providing for our wants. He is a tower of strength in checking the ill-usage of clothes--what
I have come to regard as the greatest danger with Englishmen.

Friday, March 10, A.M.--Went yesterday to Castle Rock with Wilson to see what chance there
might be of getting to Cape Evans. [17] The day was bright and it was quite warm walking in
the sun. There is no doubt the route to Cape Evans lies over the worst corner of Erebus. From
this distance the whole mountain side looks a mass of crevasses, but a route might be found
at a level of 3000 or 4000 ft.

The hut is getting warmer and more comfortable. We have very excellent nights; it is cold only
in the early morning. The outside temperatures range from 8° or so in the day to 2° at night.
To-day there is a strong S.E. wind with drift. We are going to fetch more blubber for the stove.

Saturday, March 11, A.M.--Went yesterday morning to Pram Point to fetch in blubber--wind very
strong to Gap but very little on Pram Point side.

In the evening went half-way to Castle Rock; strong bitter cold wind on summit. Could not see
the sledge party, but after supper they arrived, having had very hard pulling. They had had
no wind at all till they approached the hut. Their temperatures had fallen to -10° and -15°,
but with bright clear sunshine in the daytime. They had thoroughly enjoyed their trip and the
pulling on ski.

Life in the hut is much improved, but if things go too fast there will be all too little to
think about and give occupation in the hut.

It is astonishing how the miscellaneous assortment of articles remaining in and about the hut
have been put to useful purpose.

This deserves description.15

Monday, March 13, A.M.--The weather grew bad on Saturday night and we had a mild blizzard yesterday.
The wind went to the south and increased in force last night, and this morning there was quite
a heavy sea breaking over the ice foot. The spray came almost up to the dogs. It reminds us
of the gale in which we drove ashore in the Discovery. We have had some trouble with our blubber
stove and got the hut very full of smoke on Saturday night. As a result we are all as black
as sweeps and our various garments are covered with oily soot. We look a fearful gang of ruffians.
The blizzard has delayed our plans and everyone's attention is bent on the stove, the cooking,
and the various internal arrangements. Nothing is done without a great amount of advice received
from all quarters, and consequently things are pretty well done. The hut has a pungent odour
of blubber and blubber smoke. We have grown accustomed to it, but imagine that ourselves and
our clothes will be given a wide berth when we return to Cape Evans.

Wednesday, March 15, A.M.--It was blowing continuously from the south throughout Sunday, Monday,
and Tuesday--I never remember such a persistent southerly wind.

Both Monday and Tuesday I went up Crater Hill. I feared that our floe at Pram Point would go,
but yesterday it still remained, though the cracks are getting more open. We should be in a
hole if it went. [18]

As I came down the hill yesterday I saw a strange figure advancing and found it belonged to
Griffith Taylor. He and his party had returned safely. They were very full of their adventures.
The main part of their work seems to be rediscovery of many facts which were noted but perhaps
passed over too lightly in the Discovery--but it is certain that the lessons taught by the
physiographical and ice features will now be thoroughly explained. A very interesting fact
lies in the continuous bright sunshiny weather which the party enjoyed during the first four
weeks of their work. They seem to have avoided all our stormy winds and blizzards.

But I must leave Griffith Taylor to tell his own story, which will certainly be a lengthy one.
The party gives Evans [P.O.] a very high character.

To-day we have a large seal-killing party. I hope to get in a good fortnight's allowance of
blubber as well as meat, and pray that our floe will remain.

Friday, March 17, A.M.--We killed eleven seals at Pram Point on Wednesday, had lunch on the
Point, and carried some half ton of the blubber and meat back to camp--it was a stiff pull
up the hill.

Yesterday the last Corner Party started: Evans, Wright, Crean, and Forde in one team; Bowers,
Oates, Cherry-Garrard, and Atkinson in the other. It was very sporting of Wright to join in
after only a day's rest. He is evidently a splendid puller.

Debenham has become principal cook, and evidently enjoys the task.

Taylor is full of good spirits and anecdote, an addition to the party.

Yesterday after a beautifully fine morning we got a strong northerly wind which blew till the
middle of the night, crowding the young ice up the Strait. Then the wind suddenly shifted to
the south, and I thought we were in for a blizzard; but this morning the wind has gone to the
S.E.--the stratus cloud formed by the north wind is dissipating, and the damp snow deposited
in the night is drifting. It looks like a fine evening.

Steadily we are increasing the comforts of the hut. The stove has been improved out of all
recognition; with extra stove-pipes we get no back draughts, no smoke inside, whilst the economy
of fuel is much increased.

Insulation inside and out is the subject we are now attacking.

The young ice is going to and fro, but the sea refuses to freeze over so far--except in the
region of Pram Point, where a bay has remained for some four days holding some pieces of Barrier
in its grip. These pieces have come from the edge of the Barrier and some are crumbling already,
showing a deep and rapid surface deposit of snow and therefore the probability that they are
drifted sea ice not more than a year or two old, the depth of the drift being due to proximity
to an old Barrier edge.

I have just taken to pyjama trousers and shall don an extra shirt--I have been astonished at
the warmth which I have felt throughout in light clothing. So far I have had nothing more than
a singlet and jersey under pyjama jacket and a single pair of drawers under wind trousers.
A hole in the drawers of ancient date means that one place has had no covering but the wind
trousers, yet I have never felt cold about the body.

In spite of all little activities I am impatient of our wait here. But I shall be impatient
also in the main hut. It is ill to sit still and contemplate the ruin which has assailed our
transport. The scheme of advance must be very different from that which I first contemplated.
The Pole is a very long way off, alas!

Bit by bit I am losing all faith in the dogs--I'm afraid they will never go the pace we look for.

Saturday, March 18, A.M.--Still blowing and drifting. It seems as though there can be no peace
at this spot till the sea is properly frozen over. It blew very hard from the S.E. yesterday--I
could scarcely walk against the wind. In the night it fell calm; the moon shone brightly at
midnight. Then the sky became overcast and the temperature rose to +11. Now the wind is coming
in spurts from the south--all indications of a blizzard.

With the north wind of Friday the ice must have pressed up on Hut Point. A considerable floe
of pressed up young ice is grounded under the point, and this morning we found a seal on this.
Just as the party started out to kill it, it slid off into the water--it had evidently finished
its sleep--but it is encouraging to have had a chance to capture a seal so close to the hut.

Monday, March 20.--On Saturday night it blew hard from the south, thick overhead, low stratus
and drift. The sea spray again came over the ice foot and flung up almost to the dogs; by Sunday
morning the wind had veered to the S.E., and all yesterday it blew with great violence and
temperature down to -11° and -12°.

We were confined to the hut and its immediate environs. Last night the wind dropped, and for
a few hours this morning we had light airs only, the temperature rising to -2°.

The continuous bad weather is very serious for the dogs. We have strained every nerve to get
them comfortable, but the changes of wind made it impossible to afford shelter in all directions.
Some five or six dogs are running loose, but we dare not allow the stronger animals such liberty.
They suffer much from the cold, but they don't get worse.

The small white dog which fell into the crevasse on our home journey died yesterday. Under
the best circumstances I doubt if it could have lived, as there had evidently been internal
injury and an external sore had grown gangrenous. Three other animals are in a poor way, but
may pull through with luck.

We had a stroke of luck to-day. The young ice pressed up off Hut Point has remained fast--a
small convenient platform jutting out from the point. We found two seals on it to-day and killed
them--thus getting a good supply of meat for the dogs and some more blubber for our fire. Other
seals came up as the first two were being skinned, so that one may now hope to keep up all
future supplies on this side of the ridge.

As I write the wind is blowing up again and looks like returning to the south. The only comfort
is that these strong cold winds with no sun must go far to cool the waters of the Sound.

The continuous bad weather is trying to the spirits, but we are fairly comfortable in the hut
and only suffer from lack of exercise to work off the heavy meals our appetites demand.

Tuesday, March 21.--The wind returned to the south at 8 last night. It gradually increased
in force until 2 A.M., when it was blowing from the S.S.W., force 9 to 10. The sea was breaking
constantly and heavily on the ice foot. The spray carried right over the Point--covering all
things and raining on the roof of the hut. Poor Vince's cross, some 30 feet above the water,
was enveloped in it.

Of course the dogs had a very poor time, and we went and released two or three, getting covered
in spray during the operation--our wind clothes very wet.

This is the third gale from the south since our arrival here. Any one of these would have rendered
the Bay impossible for a ship, and therefore it is extraordinary that we should have entirely
escaped such a blow when the Discovery was in it in 1902.

The effects of this gale are evident and show that it is a most unusual occurrence. The rippled
snow surface of the ice foot is furrowed in all directions and covered with briny deposit--a
condition we have never seen before. The ice foot at the S.W. corner of the bay is broken down,
bare rock appearing for the first time.

The sledges, magnetic huts, and in fact every exposed object on the Point are thickly covered
with brine. Our seal floe has gone, so it is good-bye to seals on this side for some time.

The dogs are the main sufferers by this continuance of phenomenally terrible weather. At least
four are in a bad state; some six or seven others are by no means fit and well, but oddly enough
some ten or a dozen animals are as fit as they can be. Whether constitutionally harder or whether
better fitted by nature or chance to protect themselves it is impossible to say--Osman, Czigane,
Krisravitsa, Hohol, and some others are in first-rate condition, whilst Lappa is better than
he has ever been before.

It is so impossible to keep the dogs comfortable in the traces and so laborious to be continually
attempting it, that we have decided to let the majority run loose. It will be wonderful if
we can avoid one or two murders, but on the other hand probably more would die if we kept them
in leash.

We shall try and keep the quarrelsome dogs chained up.

The main trouble that seems to come on the poor wretches is the icing up of their hindquarters;
once the ice gets thoroughly into the coat the hind legs get half paralysed with cold. The
hope is that the animals will free themselves of this by running about.

Well, well, fortune is not being very kind to us. This month will have sad memories. Still
I suppose things might be worse; the ponies are well housed and are doing exceedingly well,
though we have slightly increased their food allowance.

Yesterday afternoon we climbed Observation Hill to see some examples of spheroidal weathering--Wilson
knew of them and guided. The geologists state that they indicate a columnar structure, the
tops of the columns being weathered out.

The specimens we saw were very perfect. Had some interesting instruction in geology in the
evening. I should not regret a stay here with our two geologists if only the weather would
allow us to get about.

This morning the wind moderated and went to the S.E.; the sea naturally fell quickly. The temperature
this morning was + 17°; minimum +11°. But now the wind is increasing from the S.E. and it is
momentarily getting colder.

Thursday, March 23, A.M.--No signs of depot party, which to-night will have been a week absent.
On Tuesday afternoon we went up to the Big Boulder above Ski slope. The geologists were interested,
and we others learnt something of olivines, green in crystal form or oxidized to bright red,
granites or granulites or quartzites, hornblende and feldspars, ferrous and ferric oxides of
lava acid, basic, plutonic, igneous, eruptive--schists, basalts &c. All such things I must
get clearer in my mind. [19]

Tuesday afternoon a cold S.E. wind commenced and blew all night.

Yesterday morning it was calm and I went up Crater Hill. The sea of stratus cloud hung curtain-like
over the Strait--blue sky east and south of it and the Western Mountains bathed in sunshine,
sharp, clear, distinct, a glorious glimpse of grandeur on which the curtain gradually descended.
In the morning it looked as though great pieces of Barrier were drifting out. From the hill
one found these to be but small fragments which the late gale had dislodged, leaving in places
a blue wall very easily distinguished from the general white of the older fractures. The old
floe and a good extent of new ice had remained fast in Pram Point Bay. Great numbers of seals
up as usual. The temperature was up to +20° at noon. In the afternoon a very chill wind from
the east, temperature rapidly dropping till zero in the evening. The Strait obstinately refuses
to freeze.

We are scoring another success in the manufacture of blubber lamps, which relieves anxiety
as to lighting as the hours of darkness increase.

The young ice in Pram Point Bay is already being pressed up.

Friday, March 24, A.M.--Skuas still about, a few--very shy--very dark in colour after moulting.

Went along Arrival Heights yesterday with very keen over-ridge wind--it was difficult to get
shelter. In the evening it fell calm and has remained all night with temperature up to + 18°.
This morning it is snowing with fairly large flakes.

Yesterday for the first time saw the ice foot on the south side of the bay, a wall some 5 or
6 ft. above water and 12 or 14 ft. below; the sea bottom quite clear with the white wall resting
on it. This must be typical of the ice foot all along the coast, and the wasting of caves at
sea level alone gives the idea of an overhanging mass. Very curious and interesting erosion
of surface of the ice foot by waves during recent gale.

The depot party returned yesterday morning. They had thick weather on the outward march and
missed the track, finally doing 30 miles between Safety Camp and Corner Camp. They had a hard
blow up to force 8 on the night of our gale. Started N.W. and strongest S.S.E.

The sea wants to freeze--a thin coating of ice formed directly the wind dropped; but the high
temperature does not tend to thicken it rapidly and the tide makes many an open lead. We have
been counting our resources and arranging for another twenty days' stay.

Saturday, March 25, A.M.--We have had two days of surprisingly warm weather, the sky overcast,
snow falling, wind only in light airs. Last night the sky was clearing, with a southerly wind,
and this morning the sea was open all about us. It is disappointing to find the ice so reluctant
to hold; at the same time one supposes that the cooling of the water is proceeding and therefore
that each day makes it easier for the ice to form--the sun seems to have lost all power, but
I imagine its rays still tend to warm the surface water about the noon hours. It is only a
week now to the date which I thought would see us all at Cape Evans.

The warmth of the air has produced a comparatively uncomfortable state of affairs in the hut.
The ice on the inner roof is melting fast, dripping on the floor and streaming down the sides.
The increasing cold is checking the evil even as I write. Comfort could only be ensured in
the hut either by making a clean sweep of all the ceiling ice or by keeping the interior at
a critical temperature little above freezing-point.

Sunday, March 26, P.M.--Yesterday morning went along Arrival Heights in very cold wind. Afternoon
to east side Observation Hill. As afternoon advanced, wind fell. Glorious evening--absolutely
calm, smoke ascending straight. Sea frozen over--looked very much like final freezing, but
in night wind came from S.E., producing open water all along shore. Wind continued this morning
with drift, slackened in afternoon; walked over Gap and back by Crater Heights to Arrival Heights.

Sea east of Cape Armitage pretty well covered with ice; some open pools--sea off shore west
of the Cape frozen in pools, open lanes close to shore as far as Castle Rock. Bays either side
of Glacier Tongue look fairly well frozen. Hut still dropping water badly.

Held service in hut this morning, read Litany. One skua seen to-day.

Monday, March 27, P.M.--Strong easterly wind on ridge to-day rushing down over slopes on western
side.

Ice holding south from about Hut Point, but cleared 1/2 to 3/4 mile from shore to northward.
Cleared in patches also, I am told, on both sides of Glacier Tongue, which is annoying. A regular
local wind. The Barrier edge can be seen clearly all along, showing there is little or no drift.
Have been out over the Gap for walk. Glad to say majority of people seem anxious to get exercise,
but one or two like the fire better.

The dogs are getting fitter each day, and all save one or two have excellent coats. I was very
pleased to find one or two of the animals voluntarily accompanying us on our walk. It is good
to see them trotting against a strong drift.

Tuesday, March 28.--Slowly but surely the sea is freezing over. The ice holds and thickens
south of Hut Point in spite of strong easterly wind and in spite of isolated water holes which
obstinately remain open. It is difficult to account for these--one wonders if the air currents
shoot downward on such places; but even so it is strange that they do not gradually diminish
in extent. A great deal of ice seems to have remained in and about the northern islets, but
it is too far to be sure that there is a continuous sheet.

We are building stabling to accommodate four more ponies under the eastern verandah. When this
is complete we shall be able to shelter seven animals, and this should be enough for winter
and spring operations.

Thursday, March 30.--The ice holds south of Hut Point, though not thickening rapidly--yesterday
was calm and the same ice conditions seemed to obtain on both sides of the Glacier Tongue.
It looks as though the last part of the road to become safe will be the stretch from Hut Point
to Turtleback Island. Here the sea seems disinclined to freeze even in calm weather. To-day
there is more strong wind from the east. White horse all along under the ridge.

The period of our stay here seems to promise to lengthen. It is trying--trying--but we can
live, which is something. I should not be greatly surprised if we had to wait till May. Several
skuas were about the camp yesterday. I have seen none to-day.

Two rorquals were rising close to Hut Point this morning--although the ice is nowhere thick
it was strange to see them making for the open leads and thin places to blow.

Friday, March 31.--I studied the wind blowing along the ridge yesterday and came to the conclusion
that a comparatively thin shaft of air was moving along the ridge from Erebus. On either side
of the ridge it seemed to pour down from the ridge itself--there was practically no wind on
the sea ice off Pram Point, and to the westward of Hut Point the frost smoke was drifting to
the N.W. The temperature ranges about zero. It seems to be almost certain that the perpetual
wind is due to the open winter. Meanwhile the sea refuses to freeze over.

Wright pointed out the very critical point which zero temperature represents in the freezing
of salt water, being the freezing temperature of concentrated brine--a very few degrees above
or below zero would make all the difference to the rate of increase of the ice thickness.

Yesterday the ice was 8 inches in places east of Cape Armitage and 6 inches in our Bay: it
was said to be fast to the south of the Glacier Tongue well beyond Turtleback Island and to
the north out of the Islands, except for a strip of water immediately north of the Tongue.

We are good for another week in pretty well every commodity and shall then have to reduce luxuries.
But we have plenty of seal meat, blubber and biscuit, and can therefore remain for a much longer
period if needs be. Meanwhile the days are growing shorter and the weather colder.

Saturday, April 1.--The wind yesterday was blowing across the Ridge from the top down on the
sea to the west: very little wind on the eastern slopes and practically none at Pram Point.
A seal came up in our Bay and was killed. Taylor found a number of fish frozen into the sea
ice--he says there are several in a small area.

The pressure ridges in Pram Point Bay are estimated by Wright to have set up about 3 feet.
This ice has been 'in' about ten days. It is now safe to work pretty well anywhere south of
Hut Point.

Went to Third Crater (next Castle Rock) yesterday. The ice seems to be holding in the near
Bay from a point near Hulton Rocks to Glacier; also in the whole of the North Bay except for
a tongue of open water immediately north of the Glacier.

The wind is the same to-day as yesterday, and the open water apparently not reduced by a square
yard. I'm feeling impatient.

Sunday, April 2, A.M.--Went round Cape Armitage to Pram Point on sea ice for first time yesterday
afternoon. Ice solid everywhere, except off the Cape, where there are numerous open pools.
Can only imagine layers of comparatively warm water brought to the surface by shallows. The
ice between the pools is fairly shallow. One Emperor killed off the Cape. Several skuas seen--three
seals up in our Bay--several off Pram Point in the shelter of Horse Shoe Bay. A great many
fish on sea ice--mostly small, but a second species 5 or 6 inches long: imagine they are chased
by seals and caught in brashy ice where they are unable to escape. Came back over hill: glorious
sunset, brilliant crimson clouds in west.

Returned to find wind dropping, the first time for three days. It turned to north in the evening.
Splendid aurora in the night; a bright band of light from S.S.W. to E.N.E. passing within 10°
of the zenith with two waving spirals at the summit. This morning sea to north covered with
ice. Min. temp, for night -5°, but I think most of the ice was brought in by the wind. Things
look more hopeful. Ice now continuous to Cape Evans, but very thin as far as Glacier Tongue;
three or four days of calm or light winds should make everything firm.

Wednesday, April 5, A.M.--The east wind has continued with a short break on Sunday for five
days, increasing in violence and gradually becoming colder and more charged with snow until
yesterday, when we had a thick overcast day with falling and driving snow and temperature down
to -11°.

Went beyond Castle Rock on Sunday and Monday mornings with Griffith Taylor.

Think the wind fairly local and that the Strait has frozen over to the north, as streams of
drift snow and ice crystals (off the cliffs) were building up the ice sheet towards the wind.
Monday we could see the approaching white sheet--yesterday it was visibly closer to land, though
the wind had not decreased. Walking was little pleasure on either day: yesterday climbed about
hills to see all possible. No one else left the hut. In the evening the wind fell and freezing
continued during night (min.--17°). This morning there is ice everywhere. I cannot help thinking
it has come to stay. In Arrival Bay it is 6 to 7 inches thick, but the new pools beyond have
only I inch of the regular elastic sludgy new ice. The sky cleared last night, and this morning
we have sunshine for the first time for many days. If this weather holds for a day we shall
be all right. We are getting towards the end of our luxuries, so that it is quite time we made
a move--we are very near the end of the sugar.

The skuas seem to have gone, the last was seen on Sunday. These birds were very shy towards
the end of their stay, also very dark in plumage; they did not seem hungry, and yet it must
have been difficult for them to get food.

The seals are coming up in our Bay--five last night. Luckily the dogs have not yet discovered
them or the fact that the sea ice will bear them.

Had an interesting talk with Taylor on agglomerate and basaltic dykes of Castle Rock. The perfection
of the small cone craters below Castle Rock seem to support the theory we have come to, that
there have been volcanic disturbances since the recession of the greater ice sheet.

It is a great thing having Wright to fog out the ice problems, and he has had a good opportunity
of observing many interesting things here. He is keeping notes of ice changes and a keen eye
on ice phenomena; we have many discussions.

Yesterday Wilson prepared a fry of seal meat with penguin blubber. It had a flavour like cod-liver
oil and was not much appreciated--some ate their share, and I think all would have done so
if we had had sledging appetites--shades of Discovery days!!16

This Emperor weighed anything from 88 to 96 lbs., and therefore approximated to or exceeded
the record.

The dogs are doing pretty well with one or two exceptions. Deek is the worst, but I begin to
think all will pull through.

Thursday, April 6, A.M.--The weather continued fine and clear yesterday--one of the very few
fine days we have had since our arrival at the hut.

The sun shone continuously from early morning till it set behind the northern hills about 5
P.M. The sea froze completely, but with only a thin sheet to the north. A fairly strong northerly
wind sprang up, causing this thin ice to override and to leave several open leads near the
land. In the forenoon I went to the edge of the new ice with Wright. It looked at the limit
of safety and we did not venture far. The over-riding is interesting: the edge of one sheet
splits as it rises and slides over the other sheet in long tongues which creep onward impressively.
Whilst motion lasts there is continuous music, a medley of high pitched but tuneful notes--one
might imagine small birds chirping in a wood. The ice sings, we say.

P.M.--In the afternoon went nearly two miles to the north over the young ice; found it about
3 1/2 inches thick. At supper arranged programme for shift to Cape Evans--men to go on Saturday--dogs
Sunday--ponies Monday--all subject to maintenance of good weather of course.

Friday, April 7.--Went north over ice with Atkinson, Bowers, Taylor, Cherry-Garrard; found
the thickness nearly 5 inches everywhere except in open water leads, which remain open in many
places. As we got away from the land we got on an interesting surface of small pancakes, much
capped and pressed up, a sort of mosaic. This is the ice which was built up from lee side of
the Strait, spreading across to windward against the strong winds of Monday and Tuesday.

Another point of interest was the manner in which the overriding ice sheets had scraped the
under floes.

Taylor fell in when rather foolishly trying to cross a thinly covered lead--he had a very scared
face for a moment or two whilst we hurried to the rescue, but hauled himself out with his ice
axe without our help and walked back with Cherry.

The remainder of us went on till abreast of the sulphur cones under Castle Rock, when we made
for the shore, and with a little mutual help climbed the cliff and returned by land.

As far as one can see all should be well for our return to-morrow, but the sky is clouding
to-night and a change of weather seems imminent. Three successive fine days seem near the limit
in this region.

We have picked up quite a number of fish frozen in the ice--the larger ones about the size
of a herring and the smaller of a minnow. We imagined both had been driven into the slushy
ice by seals, but to-day Gran found a large fish frozen in the act of swallowing a small one.
It looks as though both small and large are caught when one is chasing the other.

We have achieved such great comfort here that one is half sorry to leave--it is a fine healthy
existence with many hours spent in the open and generally some interesting object for our walks
abroad. The hill climbing gives excellent exercise--we shall miss much of it at Cape Evans.
But I am anxious to get back and see that all is well at the latter, as for a long time I have
been wondering how our beach has withstood the shocks of northerly winds. The thought that
the hut may have been damaged by the sea in one of the heavy storms will not be banished.

A Sketch of the Life at Hut Point

We gather around the fire seated on packing-cases to receive them with a hunk of butter and
a steaming pannikin of tea, and life is well worth living. After lunch we are out and about
again; there is little to tempt a long stay indoors and exercise keeps us all the fitter.

The falling light and approach of supper drives us home again with good appetites about 5 or
6 o'clock, and then the cooks rival one another in preparing succulent dishes of fried seal
liver. A single dish may not seem to offer much opportunity of variation, but a lot can be
done with a little flour, a handful of raisins, a spoonful of curry powder, or the addition
of a little boiled pea meal. Be this as it may, we never tire of our dish and exclamations
of satisfaction can be heard every night--or nearly every night, for two nights ago [April
4] Wilson, who has proved a genius in the invention of 'plats,' almost ruined his reputation.
He proposed to fry the seal liver in penguin blubber, suggesting that the latter could be freed
from all rankness. The blubber was obtained and rendered down with great care, the result appeared
as delightfully pure fat free from smell; but appearances were deceptive; the 'fry' proved
redolent of penguin, a concentrated essence of that peculiar flavour which faintly lingers
in the meat and should not be emphasised. Three heroes got through their pannikins, but the
rest of us decided to be contented with cocoa and biscuit after tasting the first mouthful.
After supper we have an hour or so of smoking and conversation--a cheering, pleasant hour--in
which reminiscences are exchanged by a company which has very literally had world-wide experience.
There is scarce a country under the sun which one or another of us has not travelled in, so
diverse are our origins and occupations. An hour or so after supper we tail off one by one,
spread out our sleeping-bags, take off our shoes and creep into comfort, for our reindeer bags
are really warm and comfortable now that they have had a chance of drying, and the hut retains
some of the heat generated in it. Thanks to the success of the blubber lamps and to a fair
supply of candles, we can muster ample light to read for another hour or two, and so tucked
up in our furs we study the social and political questions of the past decade.

We muster no less than sixteen. Seven of us pretty well cover the floor of one wing of the
L-shaped enclosure, four sleep in the other wing, which also holds the store, whilst the remaining
five occupy the annexe and affect to find the colder temperature more salubrious. Everyone
can manage eight or nine hours' sleep without a break, and not a few would have little difficulty
in sleeping the clock round, which goes to show that our extremely simple life is an exceedingly
healthy one, though with faces and hands blackened with smoke, appearances might not lead an
outsider to suppose it.

Sunday, April 9, A.M.--On Friday night it grew overcast and the wind went to the south. During
the whole of yesterday and last night it blew a moderate blizzard--the temperature at highest
+5°, a relatively small amount of drift. On Friday night the ice in the Strait went out from
a line meeting the shore 3/4 mile north of Hut Point. A crack off Hut Point and curving to
N.W. opened to about 15 or 20 feet, the opening continuing on the north side of the Point.
It is strange that the ice thus opened should have remained.

Ice cleared out to the north directly wind commenced--it didn't wait a single instant, showing
that our journey over it earlier in the day was a very risky proceeding--the uncertainty of
these conditions is beyond words, but there shall be no more of this foolish venturing on young
ice. This decision seems to put off the return of the ponies to a comparatively late date.

Yesterday went to the second crater, Arrival Heights, hoping to see the condition of the northerly
bays, but could see little or nothing owing to drift. A white line dimly seen on the horizon
seemed to indicate that the ice drifted out has not gone far.

Some skuas were seen yesterday, a very late date. The seals disinclined to come on the ice;
one can be seen at Cape Armitage this morning, but it is two or three days since there was
one up in our Bay. It will certainly be some time before the ponies can be got back.

Monday, April 10, P.M.--Intended to make for Cape Evans this morning. Called hands early, but
when we were ready for departure after breakfast, the sky became more overcast and snow began
to fall. It continued off and on all day, only clearing as the sun set. It would have been
the worst condition possible for our attempt, as we could not have been more than 100 yards.

Conditions look very unfavourable for the continued freezing of the Strait.

Thursday, April 13.--Started from Hut Point 9 A.M. Tuesday. Party consisted of self, Bowers,
P.O. Evans, Taylor, one tent; Evans, Gran, Crean, Debenham, and Wright, second tent. Left Wilson
in charge at Hut Point with Meares, Forde, Keohane, Oates, Atkinson, and Cherry-Garrard. All
gave us a pull up the ski slope; it had become a point of honour to take this slope without
a 'breather.' I find such an effort trying in the early morning, but had to go through with it.

Weather fine; we marched past Castle Rock, east of it; the snow was soft on the slopes, showing
the shelter afforded--continued to traverse the ridge for the first time--found quite good
surface much wind swept--passed both cones on the ridge on the west side. Caught a glimpse
of fast ice in the Bays either side of Glacier as expected, but in the near Bay its extent
was very small. Evidently we should have to go well along the ridge before descending, and
then the problem would be how to get down over the cliffs. On to Hulton Rocks 7 1/2 miles from
the start--here it was very icy and wind swept, inhospitable--the wind got up and light became
bad just at the critical moment, so we camped and had some tea at 2 P.M. A clearance half an
hour later allowed us to see a possible descent to the ice cliffs, but between Hulton Rocks
and Erebus all the slope was much cracked and crevassed. We chose a clear track to the edge
of the cliffs, but could find no low place in these, the lowest part being 24 feet sheer drop.
Arriving here the wind increased, the snow drifting off the ridge--we had to decide quickly;
I got myself to the edge and made standing places to work the rope; dug away at the cornice,
well situated for such work in harness. Got three people lowered by the Alpine rope--Evans,
Bowers, and Taylor--then sent down the sledges, which went down in fine style, fully packed--then
the remainder of the party. For the last three, drove a stake hard down in the snow and used
the rope round it, the men being lowered by people below--came down last myself. Quite a neat
and speedy bit of work and all done in 20 minutes without serious frostbite--quite pleased
with the result.

We found pulling to Glacier Tongue very heavy over the surface of ice covered with salt crystals,
and reached Glacier Tongue about 5.30; found a low place and got the sledges up the 6 ft. wall
pretty easily. Stiff incline, but easy pulling on hard surface--the light was failing and the
surface criss-crossed with innumerable cracks; several of us fell in these with risk of strain,
but the north side was well snow-covered and easy, with a good valley leading to a low ice
cliff--here a broken piece afforded easy descent. I decided to push on for Cape Evans, so camped
for tea at 6. At 6.30 found darkness suddenly arrived; it was very difficult to see anything--we
got down on the sea ice, very heavy pulling, but plodded on for some hours; at 10 arrived close
under little Razor Back Island, and not being able to see anything ahead, decided to camp and
got to sleep at 11.30 in no very comfortable circumstances.

The wind commenced to rise during night. We found a roaring blizzard in the morning. We had
many alarms for the safety of the ice on which the camp was pitched. Bowers and Taylor climbed
the island; reported wind terrific on the summit--sweeping on either side but comparatively
calm immediately to windward and to leeward. Waited all day in hopes of a lull; at 3 I went
round the island myself with Bowers, and found a little ice platform close under the weather
side; resolved to shift camp here. It took two very cold hours, but we gained great shelter,
the cliffs rising almost sheer from the tents. Only now and again a whirling wind current eddied
down on the tents, which were well secured, but the noise of the wind sweeping over the rocky
ridge above our heads was deafening; we could scarcely hear ourselves speak. Settled down for
our second night with little comfort, and slept better, knowing we could not be swept out to
sea, but provisions were left only for one more meal.

During the night the wind moderated and we could just see outline of land.

I roused the party at 7 A.M. and we were soon under weigh, with a desperately cold and stiff
breeze and frozen clothes; it was very heavy pulling, but the distance only two miles. Arrived
off the point about ten and found sea ice continued around it. It was a very great relief to
see the hut on rounding it and to hear that all was well.

Another pony, Hackenschmidt, and one dog reported dead, but this certainly is not worse than
expected. All the other animals are in good form.

Delighted with everything I see in the hut. Simpson has done wonders, but indeed so has everyone
else, and I must leave description to a future occasion.

Friday, April 14.--Good Friday. Peaceful day. Wind continuing 20 to 30 miles per hour.

Had divine service.

Saturday, April 15.--Weather continuing thoroughly bad. Wind blowing from 30 to 40 miles an
hour all day; drift bad, and to-night snow falling. I am waiting to get back to Hut Point with
relief stores. To-night sent up signal light to inform them there of our safe arrival--an answering
flare was shown.

Sunday, April 16.--Same wind as yesterday up to 6 o'clock, when it fell calm with gusts from
the north.

Have exercised the ponies to-day and got my first good look at them. I scarcely like to express
the mixed feelings with which I am able to regard this remnant.

Freezing of Bays. Cape Evans

March 15.--General young ice formed.

March 19.--Bay cleared except strip inside Inaccessible and Razor Back Islands to Corner Turk's
Head.

March 20.--Everything cleared.

March 25.--Sea froze over inside Islands for good.

March 28.--Sea frozen as far as seen.

March 30.--Remaining only inside Islands.

April 1.--Limit Cape to Island.

April 6.--Present limit freezing in Strait and in North Bay.

April 9.--Strait cleared except former limit and some ice in North Bay likely to remain.

CHAPTER VIII

Home Impressions and an Excursion

Impressions on returning to the Hut, April 13, 1911

In choosing the site of the hut on our Home Beach I had thought of the possibility of northerly
winds bringing a swell, but had argued, firstly, that no heavy northerly swell had ever been
recorded in the Sound; secondly, that a strong northerly wind was bound to bring pack which
would damp the swell; thirdly, that the locality was excellently protected by the Barne Glacier,
and finally, that the beach itself showed no signs of having been swept by the sea, the rock
fragments composing it being completely angular.

When the hut was erected and I found that its foundation was only 11 feet above the level of
the sea ice, I had a slight misgiving, but reassured myself again by reconsidering the circumstances
that afforded shelter to the beach.

The fact that such question had been considered makes it easier to understand the attitude
of mind that readmitted doubt in the face of phenomenal conditions.

The event has justified my original arguments, but I must confess a sense of having assumed
security without sufficient proof in a case where an error of judgment might have had dire
consequences.

It was not until I found all safe at the Home Station that I realised how anxious I had been
concerning it. In a normal season no thought of its having been in danger would have occurred
to me, but since the loss of the ponies and the breaking of the Glacier Tongue I could not
rid myself of the fear that misfortune was in the air and that some abnormal swell had swept
the beach; gloomy thoughts of the havoc that might have been wrought by such an event would
arise in spite of the sound reasons which had originally led me to choose the site of the hut
as a safe one.

The late freezing of the sea, the terrible continuance of wind and the abnormalities to which
I have referred had gradually strengthened the profound distrust with which I had been forced
to regard our mysterious Antarctic climate until my imagination conjured up many forms of disaster
as possibly falling on those from whom I had parted for so long.

We marched towards Cape Evans under the usually miserable conditions which attend the breaking
of camp in a cold wind after a heavy blizzard. The outlook was dreary in the grey light of
early morning, our clothes were frozen stiff and our fingers, wet and cold in the tent, had
been frostbitten in packing the sledges.

A few comforting signs of life appeared as we approached the Cape; some old footprints in the
snow, a long silk thread from the meteorologist's balloon; but we saw nothing more as we neared
the rocks of the promontory and the many grounded bergs which were scattered off it.

To my surprise the fast ice extended past the Cape and we were able to round it into the North
Bay. Here we saw the weather screen on Wind Vane Hill, and a moment later turned a small headland
and brought the hut in full view. It was intact--stables, outhouses and all; evidently the
sea had left it undisturbed. I breathed a huge sigh of relief. We watched two figures at work
near the stables and wondered when they would see us. In a moment or two they did so, and fled
inside the hut to carry the news of our arrival. Three minutes later all nine occupants [20]
were streaming over the floe towards us with shouts of welcome. There were eager inquiries
as to mutual welfare and it took but a minute to learn the most important events of the quiet
station life which had been led since our departure. These under the circumstances might well
be considered the deaths of one pony and one dog. The pony was that which had been nicknamed
Hackenschmidt from his vicious habit of using both fore and hind legs in attacking those who
came near him. He had been obviously of different breed from the other ponies, being of lighter
and handsomer shape, suggestive of a strain of Arab blood. From no cause which could be discovered
either by the symptoms of his illness or the post-mortem held by Nelson could a reason be found
for his death. In spite of the best feeding and every care he had gradually sickened until
he was too weak to stand, and in this condition there had been no option but to put him out
of misery. Anton considers the death of Hackenschmidt to have been an act of 'cussedness'--the
result of a determination to do no work for the Expedition!! Although the loss is serious I
remember doubts which I had as to whether this animal could be anything but a source of trouble
to us. He had been most difficult to handle all through, showing a vicious, intractable temper.
I had foreseen great difficulties with him, especially during the early part of any journey
on which he was taken, and this consideration softened the news of his death. The dog had been
left behind in a very sick condition, and this loss was not a great surprise.

These items were the worst of the small budget of news that awaited me; for the rest, the hut
arrangements had worked out in the most satisfactory manner possible and the scientific routine
of observations was in full swing. After our primitive life at Cape Armitage it was wonderful
to enter the precincts of our warm, dry Cape Evans home. The interior space seemed palatial,
the light resplendent, and the comfort luxurious. It was very good to eat in civilised fashion,
to enjoy the first bath for three months, and have contact with clean, dry clothing. Such fleeting
hours of comfort (for custom soon banished their delight) are the treasured remembrance of
every Polar traveller. They throw into sharpest contrast the hardships of the past and the
comforts of the present, and for the time he revels in the unaccustomed physical contentment
that results.

I was not many hours or even minutes in the hut before I was haled round to observe in detail
the transformation which had taken place during my absence, and in which a very proper pride
was taken by those who had wrought it.

Simpson's Corner was the first visited. Here the eye travelled over numerous shelves laden
with a profusion of self-recording instruments, electric batteries and switchboards, whilst
the ear caught the ticking of many clocks, the gentle whir of a motor and occasionally the
trembling note of an electric bell. But such sights and sounds conveyed only an impression
of the delicate methodical means by which the daily and hourly variations of our weather conditions
were being recorded--a mere glimpse of the intricate arrangements of a first-class meteorological
station--the one and only station of that order which has been established in Polar regions.
It took me days and even months to realise fully the aims of our meteorologist and the scientific
accuracy with which he was achieving them. When I did so to an adequate extent I wrote some
description of his work which will be found in the following pages of this volume. [21] The
first impression which I am here describing was more confused; I appreciated only that by going
to 'Simpson's Corner' one could ascertain at a glance how hard the wind was blowing and had
been blowing, how the barometer was varying, to what degree of cold the thermometer had descended;
if one were still more inquisitive he could further inform himself as to the electrical tension
of the atmosphere and other matters of like import. That such knowledge could be gleaned without
a visit to the open air was an obvious advantage to those who were clothing themselves to face
it, whilst the ability to study the variation of a storm without exposure savoured of no light
victory of mind over matter.

The dark room stands next to the parasitologist's side of the bench which flanks Sunny Jim's
Corner--an involved sentence. To be more exact, the physicists adjust their instruments and
write up books at a bench which projects at right angles to the end wall of the hut; the opposite
side of this bench is allotted to Atkinson, who is to write with his back to the dark room.
Atkinson being still absent his corner was unfurnished, and my attention was next claimed by
the occupant of the dark room beyond Atkinson's limit. The art of photography has never been
so well housed within the Polar regions and rarely without them. Such a palatial chamber for
the development of negatives and prints can only be justified by the quality of the work produced
in it, and is only justified in our case by the possession of such an artist as Ponting. He
was eager to show me the results of his summer work, and meanwhile my eye took in the neat
shelves with their array of cameras, &c., the porcelain sink and automatic water tap, the two
acetylene gas burners with their shading screens, and the general obviousness of all conveniences
of the photographic art. Here, indeed, was encouragement for the best results, and to the photographer
be all praise, for it is mainly his hand which has executed the designs which his brain conceived.
In this may be clearly seen the advantage of a traveller's experience. Ponting has had to fend
for himself under primitive conditions in a new land; the result is a 'handy man' with every
form of tool and in any circumstances. Thus, when building operations were to the fore and
mechanical labour scarce, Ponting returned to the shell of his apartment with only the raw
material for completing it. In the shortest possible space of time shelves and tanks were erected,
doors hung and windows framed, and all in a workmanlike manner commanding the admiration of
all beholders. It was well that speed could be commanded for such work, since the fleeting
hours of the summer season had been altogether too few to be spared from the immediate service
of photography. Ponting's nervous temperament allowed no waste of time--for him fine weather
meant no sleep; he decided that lost opportunities should be as rare as circumstances would permit.

This attitude was now manifested in the many yards of cinematograph film remaining on hand
and yet greater number recorded as having been sent back in the ship, in the boxes of negatives
lying on the shelves and a well-filled album of prints.

Of the many admirable points in this work perhaps the most notable are Ponting's eye for a
picture and the mastery he has acquired of ice subjects; the composition of most of his pictures
is extraordinarily good, he seems to know by instinct the exact value of foreground and middle
distance and of the introduction of 'life,' whilst with more technical skill in the manipulation
of screens and exposures he emphasises the subtle shadows of the snow and reproduces its wondrously
transparent texture. He is an artist in love with his work, and it was good to hear his enthusiasm
for results of the past and plans of the future.

Long before I could gaze my fill at the contents of the dark room I was led to the biologists'
cubicle; Nelson and Day had from the first decided to camp together, each having a habit of
methodical neatness; both were greatly relieved when the arrangement was approved, and they
were freed from the chance of an untidy companion. No attempt had been made to furnish this
cubicle before our departure on the autumn journey, but now on my return I found it an example
of the best utilisation of space. The prevailing note was neatness; the biologist's microscope
stood on a neat bench surrounded by enamel dishes, vessels, and books neatly arranged; behind
him, when seated, rose two neat bunks with neat, closely curtained drawers for clothing and
neat reflecting sconces for candles; overhead was a neat arrangement for drying socks with
several nets, neatly bestowed. The carpentering to produce this effect had been of quite a
high order, and was in very marked contrast with that exhibited for the hasty erections in
other cubicles. The pillars and boarding of the bunks had carefully finished edges and were
stained to mahogany brown. Nelson's bench is situated very conveniently under the largest of
the hut windows, and had also an acetylene lamp, so that both in summer and winter he has all
conveniences for his indoor work.

Day appeared to have been unceasingly busy during my absence. Everyone paid tribute to his
mechanical skill and expressed gratitude for the help he had given in adjusting instruments
and generally helping forward the scientific work. He was entirely responsible for the heating,
lighting, and ventilating arrangements, and as all these appear satisfactory he deserved much
praise. Particulars concerning these arrangements I shall give later; as a first impression
it is sufficient to note that the warmth and lighting of the hut seemed as good as could be
desired, whilst for our comfort the air seemed fresh and pure. Day had also to report some
progress with the motor sledges, but this matter also I leave for future consideration.

My attention was very naturally turned from the heating arrangements to the cooking stove and
its custodian, Clissold. I had already heard much of the surpassingly satisfactory meals which
his art had produced, and had indeed already a first experience of them. Now I was introduced
to the cook's corner with its range and ovens, its pots and pans, its side tables and well-covered
shelves. Much was to be gathered therefrom, although a good meal by no means depends only on
kitchen conveniences. It was gratifying to learn that the stove had proved itself economical
and the patent fuel blocks a most convenient and efficient substitute for coal. Save for the
thickness of the furnace cheeks and the size of the oven Clissold declared himself wholly satisfied.
He feared that the oven would prove too small to keep up a constant supply of bread for all
hands; nevertheless he introduced me to this oven with an air of pride which I soon found to
be fully justified. For connected therewith was a contrivance for which he was entirely responsible,
and which in its ingenuity rivalled any of which the hut could boast. The interior of the oven
was so arranged that the 'rising' of the bread completed an electric circuit, thereby ringing
a bell and switching on a red lamp. Clissold had realised that the continuous ringing of the
bell would not be soothing to the nerves of our party, nor the continuous burning of the lamp
calculated to prolong its life, and he had therefore added the clockwork mechanism which automatically
broke the circuit after a short interval of time; further, this clockwork mechanism could be
made to control the emersion of the same warning signals at intervals of time varied according
to the desire of the operator;--thus because, when in bed, he would desire a signal at short
periods, but if absent from the hut he would wish to know at a glance what had happened when
he returned. Judged by any standard it was a remarkably pretty little device, but when I learnt
that it had been made from odds and ends, such as a cog-wheel or spring here and a cell or
magnet there, begged from other departments, I began to realise that we had a very exceptional
cook. Later when I found that Clissold was called in to consult on the ailments of Simpson's
motor and that he was capable of constructing a dog sledge out of packing cases, I was less
surprised, because I knew by this time that he had had considerable training in mechanical
work before he turned his attention to pots and pans.

My first impressions include matters to which I was naturally eager to give an early half-hour,
namely the housing of our animals. I found herein that praise was as justly due to our Russian
boys as to my fellow Englishmen.

Anton with Lashly's help had completed the furnishing of the stables. Neat stalls occupied
the whole length of the 'lean to,' the sides so boarded that sprawling legs could not be entangled
beneath and the front well covered with tin sheet to defeat the 'cribbers.' I could but sigh
again to think of the stalls that must now remain empty, whilst appreciating that there was
ample room for the safe harbourage of the ten beasts that remain, be the winter never so cold
or the winds so wild.

Later we have been able to give double space to all but two or three of our animals, in which
they can lie down if they are so inclined.

The ponies look fairly fit considering the low diet on which they have been kept; their coats
were surprisingly long and woolly in contrast with those of the animals I had left at Hut Point.
At this time they were being exercised by Lashly, Anton, Demetri, Hooper, and Clissold, and
as a rule were ridden, the sea having only recently frozen. The exercise ground had lain on
the boulder-strewn sand of the home beach and extending towards the Skua lake; and across these
stretches I soon saw barebacked figures dashing at speed, and not a few amusing incidents in
which horse and rider parted with abrupt lack of ceremony. I didn't think this quite the most
desirable form of exercise for the beasts, but decided to leave matters as they were till our
pony manager returned.

Demetri had only five or six dogs left in charge, but these looked fairly fit, all things considered,
and it was evident the boy was bent on taking every care of them, for he had not only provided
shelters, but had built a small 'lean to' which would serve as a hospital for any animal whose
stomach or coat needed nursing.

Such were in broad outline the impressions I received on my first return to our home station;
they were almost wholly pleasant and, as I have shown, in happy contrast with the fears that
had assailed me on the homeward route. As the days went by I was able to fill in the detail
in equally pleasant fashion, to watch the development of fresh arrangements and the improvement
of old ones. Finally, in this way I was brought to realise what an extensive and intricate
but eminently satisfactory organisation I had made myself responsible for.

Notes on Flyleaf of Fresh MS. Book

Genus Homo, Species Sapiens!

FLOTSAM

Wm. Barents' house in Novaya Zemlya built 1596. Found by Capt. Carlsen 1871 (275 years later)
intact, everything inside as left! What of this hut?

The ocean girt continent.

'Might have seemed almost heroic if any higher end than excessive love of gain and traffic
had animated the design.'--MILTON.

There is no part of the world that can not be reached by man. When the 'can be' is turned to
'has been' the Geographical Society will have altered its status.

'At the whirring loom of time unawed I weave the living garment of God.'--GOETHE.

By all means think yourself big but don't think everyone else small!

The man who knows everyone's job isn't much good at his own.

'When you are attacked unjustly avoid the appearance of evil, but avoid also the appearance
of being too good!' 'A man can't be too good, but he can appear too good.'

Monday, April 17.--Started from C. Evans with two 10 ft. sledges.

    Party 1. Self, Lashly, Day, Demetri.
      ,,  2. Bowers, Nelson, Crean, Hooper.

We left at 8 A.M., taking our personal equipment, a week's provision of sledging food, and
butter, oatmeal, flour, lard, chocolate, &c., for the hut.

Two of the ponies hauled the sledges to within a mile of the Glacier Tongue; the wind, which
had been north, here suddenly shifted to S.E., very biting. (The wind remained north at C.
Evans during the afternoon, the ponies walked back into it.) Sky overcast, very bad light.
Found the place to get on the glacier, but then lost the track-crossed more or less direct,
getting amongst many cracks. Came down in bay near the open water--stumbled over the edge to
an easy drift. More than once on these trips I as leader have suddenly disappeared from the
sight of the others, affording some consternation till they got close enough to see what has
happened. The pull over sea ice was very heavy and in face of strong wind and drift. Every
member of the party was frostbitten about the face, several with very cold feet. Pushed on
after repairs. Found drift streaming off the ice cliff, a new cornice formed and our rope buried
at both ends. The party getting cold, I decided to camp, have tea, and shift foot gear. Whilst
tea was preparing, Bowers and I went south, then north, along the cliffs to find a place to
ascend--nearly everywhere ascent seemed impossible in the vicinity of Hulton Rocks or north,
but eventually we found an overhanging cornice close to our rope.

After lunch we unloaded a sledge, which, held high on end by four men, just reached the edge
of the cornice. Clambering up over backs and up sledge I used an ice-axe to cut steps over
the cornice and thus managed to get on top, then cut steps and surmounted the edge of the cornice.
Helped Bowers up with the rope; others followed--then the gear was hauled up piecemeal. For
Crean, the last man up, we lowered the sledge over the cornice and used a bowline in the other
end of the rope on top of it. He came up grinning with delight, and we all thought the ascent
rather a cunning piece of work. It was fearfully cold work, but everyone working with rare
intelligence, we eventually got everything up and repacked the sledge; glad to get in harness
again. Then a heavy pull up a steep slope in wretched light, making detour to left to avoid
crevasses. We reached the top and plodded on past the craters as nearly as possible as on the
outward route. The party was pretty exhausted and very wet with perspiration. Approaching Castle
Rock the weather and light improved. Camped on Barrier Slope north of Castle Rock about 9 P.M.
Night cold but calm, -38° during night; slept pretty well.

Tuesday, April 18.--Hut Point. Good moonlight at 7 A.M.--had breakfast. Broke camp very quickly--Lashly
splendid at camp work as of old--very heavy pull up to Castle Rock, sweated much. This sweating
in cold temperature is a serious drawback. Reached Hut Point 1 P.M. Found all well in excellent
spirits--didn't seem to want us much!!

Party reported very bad weather since we left, cold blizzard, then continuous S.W. wind with
-20° and below. The open water was right up to Hut Point, wind absolutely preventing all freezing
along shore. Wilson reported skua gull seen Monday.

Found party much shorter of blubber than I had expected--they were only just keeping themselves
supplied with a seal killed two days before and one as we arrived.

Actually less fast ice than when we left!

Wednesday, April 19.--Hut Point. Calm during night, sea froze over at noon, 4 1/2 inches thick
off Hut Point, showing how easily the sea will freeze when the chance is given.

Three seals reported on the ice; all hands out after breakfast and the liver and blubber of
all three seals were brought in. This relieves one of a little anxiety, leaving a twelve days'
stock, in which time other seals ought to be coming up. I am making arrangements to start back
to-morrow, but at present it is overcast and wind coming up from the south. This afternoon,
all ice frozen last night went out quietly; the sea tried to freeze behind it, but the wind
freshened soon. The ponies were exercised yesterday and to-day; they look pretty fit, but their
coats are not so good as those in winter quarters--they want fatty foods.

Am preparing to start to-morrow, satisfied that the Discovery Hut is very comfortable and life
very liveable in it. The dogs are much the same, all looking pretty fit except Vaida and Rabchick--neither
of which seem to get good coats. I am greatly struck with the advantages of experience in Crean
and Lashly for all work about camps.

Thursday, April 20.--Hut Point. Everything ready for starting this morning, but of course it
'blizzed.' Weather impossible--much wind and drift from south. Wind turned to S.E. in afternoon--temperatures
low. Went for walk to Cape Armitage, but it is really very unpleasant. The wind blowing round
the Cape is absolutely blighting, force 7 and temperature below -30°. Sea a black cauldron
covered with dark frost smoke. No ice can form in such weather.

Friday, April 21.--Started homeward at 10.30.

Left Meares in charge of station with Demetri to help with dogs, Lashly and Keohane to look
out for ponies, Nelson and Day and Forde to get some idea of the life and experience. Homeward
party, therefore:

            Self       Bowers
            Wilson     Oates
            Atkinson   Cherry-Garrard
            Crean      Hooper

As usual all hands pulled up Ski slope, which we took without a halt. Lashly and Demetri came
nearly to Castle Rock--very cold side wind and some frostbites. We reached the last downward
slope about 2.30; at the cliff edge found the cornice gone--heavy wind and drift worse than
before, if anything. We bustled things, and after tantalising delays with the rope got Bowers
and some others on the floe, then lowered the sledges packed; three men, including Crean and
myself, slid down last on the Alpine rope--doubled and taken round an ash stave, so that we
were able to unreeve the end and recover the rope--we recovered also most of the old Alpine
rope, all except a piece buried in snow on the sea ice and dragged down under the slush, just
like the Discovery boats; I could not have supposed this could happen in so short a time.17

By the time all stores were on the floe, with swirling drift about us, everyone was really
badly cold--one of those moments for quick action. We harnessed and dashed for the shelter
of the cliffs; up tents, and hot tea as quick as possible; after this and some shift of foot
gear all were much better. Heavy plod over the sea ice, starting at 4.30--very bad light on
the glacier, and we lost our way as usual, stumbling into many crevasses, but finally descended
in the old place; by this time sweating much. Crean reported our sledge pulling much more heavily
than the other one. Marched on to Little Razor Back Island without halt, our own sledge dragging
fearfully. Crean said there was great difference in the sledges, though loads were equal. Bowers
politely assented when I voiced this sentiment, but I'm sure he and his party thought it the
plea of tired men. However there was nothing like proof, and he readily assented to change
sledges. The difference was really extraordinary; we felt the new sledge a featherweight compared
with the old, and set up a great pace for the home quarters regardless of how much we perspired.
We arrived at the hut (two miles away) ten minutes ahead of the others, who by this time were
quite convinced as to the difference in the sledges.

The difference was only marked when pulling over the salt-covered sea ice; on snow the sledges
seemed pretty much the same. It is due to the grain of the wood in the runners and is worth
looking into.

We all arrived bathed in sweat--our garments were soaked through, and as we took off our wind
clothes showers of ice fell on the floor. The accumulation was almost incredible and shows
the whole trouble of sledging in cold weather. It would have been very uncomfortable to have
camped in the open under such conditions, and assuredly a winter and spring party cannot afford
to get so hot if they wish to retain any semblance of comfort.

Our excellent cook had just the right meal prepared for us--an enormous dish of rice and figs,
and cocoa in a bucket! The hut party were all very delighted to see us, and the fittings and
comforts of the hut are amazing to the newcomers.

Saturday, April 22.--Cape Evans, Winter Quarters. The sledging season is at an end. It's good
to be back in spite of all the losses we have sustained.

To-day we enjoy a very exceptional calm. The sea is freezing over of course, but unfortunately
our view from Observatory Hill is very limited. Oates and the rest are exercising the ponies.
I have been sorting my papers and getting ready for the winter work.

CHAPTER IX

The Work and the Workers

Sunday, April 23.--Winter Quarters. The last day of the sun and a very glorious view of its
golden light over the Barne Glacier. We could not see the sun itself on account of the Glacier,
the fine ice cliffs of which were in deep shadow under the rosy rays.

Impression.--The long mild twilight which like a silver clasp unites to-day with yesterday;
when morning and evening sit together hand in hand beneath the starless sky of midnight.

It blew hard last night and most of the young ice has gone as expected. Patches seem to be
remaining south of the Glacier Tongue and the Island and off our own bay. In this very queer
season it appears as though the final freezing is to be reached by gradual increments to the
firmly established ice.

Had Divine Service. Have only seven hymn-books, those brought on shore for our first Service
being very stupidly taken back to the ship.

I begin to think we are too comfortable in the hut and hope it will not make us slack; but
it is good to see everyone in such excellent spirits--so far not a rift in the social arrangements.

Monday, April 24.--A night watchman has been instituted mainly for the purpose of observing
the aurora, of which the displays have been feeble so far. The observer is to look round every
hour or oftener if there is aught to be seen. He is allowed cocoa and sardines with bread and
butter--the cocoa can be made over an acetylene Bunsen burner, part of Simpson's outfit. I
took the first turn last night; the remainder of the afterguard follow in rotation. The long
night hours give time to finish up a number of small tasks--the hut remains quite warm though
the fires are out.

Simpson has been practising with balloons during our absence. This morning he sent one up for
trial. The balloon is of silk and has a capacity of 1 cubic metre. It is filled with hydrogen
gas, which is made in a special generator. The generation is a simple process. A vessel filled
with water has an inverted vessel within it; a pipe is led to the balloon from the latter and
a tube of india-rubber is attached which contains calcium hydrate. By tipping the tube the
amount of calcium hydrate required can be poured into the generator. As the gas is made it
passes into the balloon or is collected in the inner vessel, which acts as a bell jar if the
stop cock to the balloon is closed.

The arrangements for utilising the balloon are very pretty.

An instrument weighing only 2 1/4 oz. and recording the temperature and pressure is attached
beneath a small flag and hung 10 to 15 ft. below the balloon with balloon silk thread; this
silk thread is of such fine quality that 5 miles of it only weighs 4 ozs., whilst its breaking
strain is 1 1/4 lbs. The lower part of the instrument is again attached to the silk thread,
which is cunningly wound on coned bobbins from which the balloon unwinds it without hitch or
friction as it ascends.

In order to spare the silk any jerk as the balloon is released two pieces of string united
with a slow match carry the strain between the instrument and the balloon until the slow match
is consumed.

The balloon takes about a quarter of an hour to inflate; the slow match is then lit, and the
balloon released; with a weight of 8 oz. and a lifting power of 2 1/2 lbs. it rises rapidly.
After it is lost to ordinary vision it can be followed with glasses as mile after mile of thread
runs out. Theoretically, if strain is put on the silk thread it should break between the instrument
and the balloon, leaving the former free to drop, when the thread can be followed up and the
instrument with its record recovered.

To-day this was tried with a dummy instrument, but the thread broke close to the bobbins. In
the afternoon a double thread was tried, and this acted successfully.

To-day I allotted the ponies for exercise. Bowers, Cherry-Garrard, Hooper, Clissold, P.O. Evans,
and Crean take animals, besides Anton and Oates. I have had to warn people that they will not
necessarily lead the ponies which they now tend.

Wilson is very busy making sketches.

Tuesday, April 28.--It was comparatively calm all day yesterday and last night, and there have
been light airs only from the south to-day. The temperature, at first comparatively high at
-5°, has gradually fallen to -13°; as a result the Strait has frozen over at last and it looks
as though the Hut Point party should be with us before very long. If the blizzards hold off
for another three days the crossing should be perfectly safe, but I don't expect Meares to hurry.

Although we had very good sunset effects at Hut Point, Ponting and others were much disappointed
with the absence of such effects at Cape Evans. This was probably due to the continual interference
of frost smoke; since our return here and especially yesterday and to-day the sky and sea have
been glorious in the afternoon.

Ponting has taken some coloured pictures, but the result is not very satisfactory and the plates
are much spotted; Wilson is very busy with pencil and brush.

Atkinson is unpacking and setting up his sterilizers and incubators. Wright is wrestling with
the electrical instruments. Evans is busy surveying the Cape and its vicinity. Oates is reorganising
the stable, making bigger stalls, &c. Cherry-Garrard is building a stone house for taxidermy
and with a view to getting hints for making a shelter at Cape Crozier during the winter. Debenham
and Taylor are taking advantage of the last of the light to examine the topography of the peninsula.
In fact, everyone is extraordinarily busy.

I came back with the impression that we should not find our winter walks so interesting as
those at Hut Point, but I'm rapidly altering my opinion; we may miss the hill climbing here,
but in every direction there is abundance of interest. To-day I walked round the shores of
the North Bay examining the kenyte cliffs and great masses of morainic material of the Barne
Glacier, then on under the huge blue ice cliffs of the Glacier itself. With the sunset lights,
deep shadows, the black islands and white bergs it was all very beautiful.

Simpson and Bowers sent up a balloon to-day with a double thread and instrument attached; the
line was checked at about 3 miles, and soon after the instrument was seen to disengage. The
balloon at first went north with a light southerly breeze till it reached 300 or 400 ft., then
it turned to the south but did not travel rapidly; when 2 miles of thread had gone it seemed
to be going north again or rising straight upward.

In the afternoon Simpson and Bowers went to recover their treasure, but somewhere south of
Inaccessible Island they found the thread broken and the light was not good enough to continue
the search.

The sides of the galley fire have caved in--there should have been cheeks to prevent this;
we got some fire clay cement to-day and plastered up the sides. I hope this will get over the
difficulty, but have some doubt.

Wednesday, April 26.--Calm. Went round Cape Evans--remarkable effects of icicles on the ice
foot, formed by spray of southerly gales.

Thursday, April 27.--The fourth day in succession without wind, but overcast. Light snow has
fallen during the day--to-night the wind comes from the north.

We should have our party back soon. The temperature remains about -5° and the ice should be
getting thicker with rapidity.

Went round the bergs off Cape Evans--they are very beautiful, especially one which is pierced
to form a huge arch. It will be interesting to climb around these monsters as the winter proceeds.

To-day I have organised a series of lectures for the winter; the people seem keen and it ought
to be exceedingly interesting to discuss so many diverse subjects with experts.

We have an extraordinary diversity of talent and training in our people; it would be difficult
to imagine a company composed of experiences which differed so completely. We find one hut
contains an experience of every country and every clime! What an assemblage of motley knowledge!

Friday, April 28.--Another comparatively calm day--temp. -12°, clear sky. Went to ice caves
on glacier S. of Cape; these are really very wonderful. Ponting took some photographs with
long exposure and Wright got some very fine ice crystals. The Glacier Tongue comes close around
a high bluff headland of kenyte; it is much cracked and curiously composed of a broad wedge
of white névé over blue ice. The faults in the dust strata in these surfaces are very mysterious
and should be instructive in the explanation of certain ice problems.

It looks as though the sea had frozen over for good. If no further blizzard clears the Strait
it can be said for this season that:

        The Bays froze over on March 25.
        The Strait ,,    ,,    ,, April 22.
         ,,    ,,  dissipated April 29.
         ,,    ,,  froze over on April 30.

Later. The Hut Point record of freezing is:

        Night 24th-25th.    Ice forming mid-day 25th, opened
                            with leads.
        26th.               Ice all out, sound apparently open.
        27th.               Strait apparently freezing.
        Early 28th.         Ice over whole Strait.
        29th.               All ice gone.
        30th.               Freezing over.
        May 4th.            Broad lead opened along land to Castle
                            Rock, 300 to 400 yds. wide.

Party intended to start on 11th, if weather fine.

Very fine display of aurora to-night, one of the brightest I have ever seen--over Erebus; it
is conceded that a red tinge is seen after the movement of light.

Saturday, April 29.--Went to Inaccessible Island with Wilson. The agglomerates, kenytes, and
lavas are much the same as those at Cape Evans. The Island is 540 ft. high, and it is a steep
climb to reach the summit over very loose sand and boulders. From the summit one has an excellent
view of our surroundings and the ice in the Strait, which seemed to extend far beyond Cape
Royds, but had some ominous cracks beyond the Island.

We climbed round the ice foot after descending the hill and found it much broken up on the
south side; the sea spray had washed far up on it.

It is curious to find that all the heavy seas come from the south and that it is from this
direction that protection is most needed.

There is some curious weathering on the ice blocks on the N. side; also the snow drifts show
interesting dirt bands. The island had a good sprinkling of snow, which will all be gone, I
expect, to-night. For as we reached the summit we saw a storm approaching from the south; it
had blotted out the Bluff, and we watched it covering Black Island, then Hut Point and Castle
Rock. By the time we started homeward it was upon us, making a harsh chatter as it struck the
high rocks and sweeping along the drift on the floe.

The blow seems to have passed over to-night and the sky is clear again, but I much fear the
ice has gone out in the Strait. There is an ominous black look to the westward.

Sunday, April 30.--As I feared last night, the morning light revealed the havoc made in the
ice by yesterday's gale. From Wind Vane Hill (66 feet) it appeared that the Strait had not
opened beyond the island, but after church I went up the Ramp with Wilson and steadily climbed
over the Glacier ice to a height of about 650 feet. From this elevation one could see that
a broad belt of sea ice had been pushed bodily to seaward, and it was evident that last night
the whole stretch of water from Hut Point to Turtle Island must have been open--so that our
poor people at Hut Point are just where they were.

The only comfort is that the Strait is already frozen again; but what is to happen if every
blow clears the sea like this?

Had an interesting walk. One can go at least a mile up the glacier slope before coming to crevasses,
and it does not appear that these would be serious for a good way farther. The view is magnificent,
and on a clear day like this, one still enjoys some hours of daylight, or rather twilight,
when it is possible to see everything clearly.

Have had talks of the curious cones which are such a feature of the Ramp--they are certainly
partly produced by ice and partly by weathering. The ponds and various forms of ice grains
interest us.

To-night have been naming all the small land features of our vicinity.

Tuesday, May 2.--It was calm yesterday. A balloon was sent up in the morning, but only reached
a mile in height before the instrument was detached (by slow match).

In the afternoon went out with Bowers and his pony to pick up instrument, which was close to
the shore in the South Bay. Went on past Inaccessible Island. The ice outside the bergs has
grown very thick, 14 inches or more, but there were freshly frozen pools beyond the Island.

In the evening Wilson opened the lecture series with a paper on 'Antarctic Flying Birds.' Considering
the limits of the subject the discussion was interesting. The most attractive point raised
was that of pigmentation. Does the absence of pigment suggest absence of reserve energy? Does
it increase the insulating properties of the hair or feathers? Or does the animal clothed in
white radiate less of his internal heat? The most interesting example of Polar colouring here
is the increased proportion of albinos amongst the giant petrels found in high latitudes.

To-day have had our first game of football; a harassing southerly wind sprang up, which helped
my own side to the extent of three goals.

This same wind came with a clear sky and jumped up and down in force throughout the afternoon,
but has died away to-night. In the afternoon I saw an ominous lead outside the Island which
appeared to extend a long way south. I'm much afraid it may go across our pony track from Hut
Point. I am getting anxious to have the hut party back, and begin to wonder if the ice to the
south will ever hold in permanently now that the Glacier Tongue has gone.

Wednesday, May 3.--Another calm day, very beautiful and clear. Wilson and Bowers took our few
dogs for a run in a sledge. Walked myself out over ice in North Bay--there are a good many
cracks and pressures with varying thickness of ice, showing how tide and wind shift the thin
sheets--the newest leads held young ice of 4 inches.

The temperature remains high, the lowest yesterday -13°; it should be much lower with such
calm weather and clear skies. A strange fact is now very commonly noticed: in calm weather
there is usually a difference of 4° or 5° between the temperature at the hut and that on Wind
Vane Hill (64 feet), the latter being the higher. This shows an inverted temperature.

As I returned from my walk the southern sky seemed to grow darker, and later stratus cloud
was undoubtedly spreading up from that direction--this at about 5 P.M. About 7 a moderate north
wind sprang up. This seemed to indicate a southerly blow, and at about 9 the wind shifted to
that quarter and blew gustily, 25 to 35 m.p.h. One cannot see the result on the Strait, but
I fear it means that the ice has gone out again in places. The wind dropped as suddenly as
it had arisen soon after midnight.

In the evening Simpson gave us his first meteorological lecture--the subject, 'Coronas, Halos,
Rainbows, and Auroras.' He has a remarkable power of exposition and taught me more of these
phenomena in the hour than I had learnt by all previous interested inquiries concerning them.

I note one or two points concerning each phenomenon.

Corona.--White to brown inside ring called Aureola--outside are sometimes seen two or three
rings of prismatic light in addition. Caused by diffraction of light round drops of water or
ice crystals; diameter of rings inversely proportionate to size of drops or crystals--mixed
sizes of ditto causes aureola without rings.

Halos.--Caused by refraction and reflection through and from ice crystals. In this connection
the hexagonal, tetrahedonal type of crystallisation is first to be noted; then the infinite
number of forms in which this can be modified together with result of fractures: two forms
predominate, the plate and the needle; these forms falling through air assume definite position--the
plate falls horizontally swaying to and fro, the needle turns rapidly about its longer axis,
which remains horizontal. Simpson showed excellent experiments to illustrate; consideration
of these facts and refraction of light striking crystals clearly leads to explanation of various
complicated halo phenomena such as recorded and such as seen by us on the Great Barrier, and
draws attention to the critical refraction angles of 32° and 46°, the radius of inner and outer
rings, the position of mock suns, contra suns, zenith circles, &c.

Further measurements are needed; for instance of streamers from mock suns and examination of
ice crystals. (Record of ice crystals seen on Barrier Surface.)

Rainbows.--Caused by reflection and refraction from and through drops of water--colours vary
with size of drops, the smaller the drop the lighter the colours and nearer to the violet end
of the spectrum--hence white rainbow as seen on the Barrier, very small drops.

Double Bows--diameters must be 84° and 100°--again from laws of refraction--colours: inner,
red outside; outer, red inside--i.e. reds come together.

Wanted to see more rainbows on Barrier. In this connection a good rainbow was seen to N.W.
in February from winter quarters. Reports should note colours and relative width of bands of
colour.

Iridescent Clouds.--Not yet understood; observations required, especially angular distance
from the sun.

Auroras.--Clearly most frequent and intense in years of maximum sun spots; this argues connection
with the sun.

Points noticed requiring confirmation:

Arch: centre of arch in magnetic meridian.

Shafts: take direction of dipping needle.

Bands and Curtains with convolutions--not understood.

Corona: shafts meeting to form.

Notes required on movement and direction of movement--colours seen--supposed red and possibly
green rays preceding or accompanying movement. Auroras are sometimes accompanied by magnetic
storms, but not always, and vice versa--in general significant signs of some connection--possible
common dependents on a third factor. The phenomenon further connects itself in form with lines
of magnetic force about the earth.

(Curious apparent connection between spectrum of aurora and that of a heavy gas, 'argon.' May
be coincidence.)

Two theories enunciated:

Arrhenius.--Bombardments of minute charged particles from the sun gathered into the magnetic
field of the earth.

Birkeland.--Bombardment of free negative electrons gathered into the magnetic field of the earth.

It is experimentally shown that minute drops of water are deflected by light.

It is experimentally shown that ions are given off by dried calcium, which the sun contains.

Professor Störmer has collected much material showing connection of the phenomenon with lines
of magnetic force.

Thursday, May 4.--From the small height of Wind Vane Hill (64 feet) it was impossible to say
if the ice in the Strait had been out after yesterday's wind. The sea was frozen, but after
twelve hours' calm it would be in any case. The dark appearance of the ice is noticeable, but
this has been the case of late since the light is poor; little snow has fallen or drifted and
the ice flowers are very sparse and scattered.

We had an excellent game of football again to-day--the exercise is delightful and we get very
warm. Atkinson is by far the best player, but Hooper, P.O. Evans, and Crean are also quite
good. It has been calm all day again.

Went over the sea ice beyond the Arch berg; the ice half a mile beyond is only 4 inches. I
think this must have been formed since the blow of yesterday, that is, in sixteen hours or less.

Such rapid freezing is a hopeful sign, but the prompt dissipation of the floe under a southerly
wind is distinctly the reverse.

I am anxious to get our people back from Hut Point, mainly on account of the two ponies; with
so much calm weather there should have been no difficulty for the party in keeping up its supply
of blubber; an absence of which is the only circumstance likely to discomfort it.

The new ice over which I walked is extraordinarily slippery and free from efflorescence. I
think this must be a further sign of rapid formation.

Friday, May 5.--Another calm day following a quiet night. Once or twice in the night a light
northerly wind, soon dying away. The temperature down to -12°. What is the meaning of this
comparative warmth? As usual in calms the Wind Vane Hill temperature is 3° or 4° higher. It
is delightful to contemplate the amount of work which is being done at the station. No one
is idle--all hands are full, and one cannot doubt that the labour will be productive of remarkable
result.

I do not think there can be any life quite so demonstrative of character as that which we had
on these expeditions. One sees a remarkable reassortment of values. Under ordinary conditions
it is so easy to carry a point with a little bounce; self-assertion is a mask which covers
many a weakness. As a rule we have neither the time nor the desire to look beneath it, and
so it is that commonly we accept people on their own valuation. Here the outward show is nothing,
it is the inward purpose that counts. So the 'gods' dwindle and the humble supplant them. Pretence
is useless.

One sees Wilson busy with pencil and colour box, rapidly and steadily adding to his portfolio
of charming sketches and at intervals filling the gaps in his zoological work of Discovery
times; withal ready and willing to give advice and assistance to others at all times; his sound
judgment appreciated and therefore a constant referee.

Simpson, master of his craft, untiringly attentive to the working of his numerous self-recording
instruments, observing all changes with scientific acumen, doing the work of two observers
at least and yet ever seeking to correlate an expanded scope. So the current meteorological
and magnetic observations are taken as never before by Polar expeditions.

Wright, good-hearted, strong, keen, striving to saturate his mind with the ice problems of
this wonderful region. He has taken the electrical work in hand with all its modern interest
of association with radio-activity.

Evans, with a clear-minded zeal in his own work, does it with all the success of result which
comes from the taking of pains. Therefrom we derive a singularly exact preservation of time--an
important consideration to all, but especially necessary for the physical work. Therefrom also,
and including more labour, we have an accurate survey of our immediate surroundings and can
trust to possess the correctly mapped results of all surveying data obtained. He has Gran for
assistant.

Taylor's intellect is omnivorous and versatile--his mind is unceasingly active, his grasp wide.
Whatever he writes will be of interest--his pen flows well.

Debenham's is clearer. Here we have a well-trained, sturdy worker, with a quiet meaning that
carries conviction; he realises the conceptions of thoroughness and conscientiousness.

To Bowers' practical genius is owed much of the smooth working of our station. He has a natural
method in line with which all arrangements fall, so that expenditure is easily and exactly
adjusted to supply, and I have the inestimable advantage of knowing the length of time which
each of our possessions will last us and the assurance that there can be no waste. Active mind
and active body were never more happily blended. It is a restless activity, admitting no idle
moments and ever budding into new forms.

So we see the balloons ascending under his guidance and anon he is away over the floe tracking
the silk thread which held it. Such a task completed, he is away to exercise his pony, and
later out again with the dogs, the last typically self-suggested, because for the moment there
is no one else to care for these animals. Now in a similar manner he is spreading thermometer
screens to get comparative readings with the home station. He is for the open air, seemingly
incapable of realising any discomfort from it, and yet his hours within doors spent with equal
profit. For he is intent on tracking the problems of sledging food and clothing to their innermost
bearings and is becoming an authority on past records. This will be no small help to me and
one which others never could have given.

Adjacent to the physicist's corner of the hut Atkinson is quietly pursuing the subject of parasites.
Already he is in a new world. The laying out of the fish trap was his action and the catches
are his field of labour. Constantly he comes to ask if I would like to see some new form and
I am taken to see some protozoa or ascidian isolated on the slide plate of his microscope.
The fishes themselves are comparatively new to science; it is strange that their parasites
should have been under investigation so soon.

Atkinson's bench with its array of microscopes, test-tubes, spirit lamps, &c., is next the
dark room in which Ponting spends the greater part of his life. I would describe him as sustained
by artistic enthusiasm. This world of ours is a different one to him than it is to the rest
of us--he gauges it by its picturesqueness--his joy is to reproduce its pictures artistically,
his grief to fail to do so. No attitude could be happier for the work which he has undertaken,
and one cannot doubt its productiveness. I would not imply that he is out of sympathy with
the works of others, which is far from being the case, but that his energies centre devotedly
on the minutiae of his business.

Cherry-Garrard is another of the open-air, self-effacing, quiet workers; his whole heart is
in the life, with profound eagerness to help everyone. 'One has caught glimpses of him in tight
places; sound all through and pretty hard also.' Indoors he is editing our Polar journal, out
of doors he is busy making trial stone huts and blubber stoves, primarily with a view to the
winter journey to Cape Crozier, but incidentally these are instructive experiments for any
party which may get into difficulty by being cut off from the home station. It is very well
to know how best to use the scant resources that nature provides in these regions. In this
connection I have been studying our Arctic library to get details concerning snow hut building
and the implements used for it.

Oates' whole heart is in the ponies. He is really devoted to their care, and I believe will
produce them in the best possible form for the sledging season. Opening out the stores, installing
a blubber stove, &c., has kept him busy, whilst his satellite, Anton, is ever at work in the
stables--an excellent little man.

Evans and Crean are repairing sleeping-bags, covering felt boots, and generally working on
sledging kit. In fact there is no one idle, and no one who has the least prospect of idleness.

Saturday, May 6.--Two more days of calm, interrupted with occasional gusts.

Yesterday, Friday evening, Taylor gave an introductory lecture on his remarkably fascinating
subject--modern physiography.

These modern physiographers set out to explain the forms of land erosion on broad common-sense
lines, heedless of geological support. They must, in consequence, have their special language.
River courses, they say, are not temporary--in the main they are archaic. In conjunction with
land elevations they have worked through geographical cycles, perhaps many. In each geographical
cycle they have advanced from infantile V-shaped forms; the courses broaden and deepen, the
bank slopes reduce in angle as maturer stages are reached until the level of sea surface is
more and more nearly approximated. In senile stages the river is a broad sluggish stream flowing
over a plain with little inequality of level. The cycle has formed a Peneplain. Subsequently,
with fresh elevation, a new cycle is commenced. So much for the simple case, but in fact nearly
all cases are modified by unequal elevations due to landslips, by variation in hardness of
rock, &c. Hence modification in positions of river courses and the fact of different parts
of a single river being in different stages of cycle.

Taylor illustrated his explanations with examples: The Red River, Canada--Plain flat though
elevated, water lies in pools, river flows in 'V' 'infantile' form.

The Rhine Valley--The gorgeous scenery from Mainz down due to infantile form in recently elevated
region.

The Russian Plains--Examples of 'senility.'

Greater complexity in the Blue Mountains--these are undoubted earth folds; the Nepean River
flows through an offshoot of a fold, the valley being made as the fold was elevated--curious
valleys made by erosion of hard rock overlying soft.

River piracy--Domestic, the short circuiting of a meander, such as at Coo in the Ardennes;
Foreign, such as Shoalhaven River, Australia--stream has captured river.

Landslips have caused the isolation of Lake George and altered the watershed of the whole country
to the south.

Later on Taylor will deal with the effects of ice and lead us to the formation of the scenery
of our own region, and so we shall have much to discuss.

Sunday, May 7.--Daylight now is very short. One wonders why the Hut Point party does not come.
Bowers and Cherry-Garrard have set up a thermometer screen containing maximum thermometers
and thermographs on the sea floe about 3/4' N.W. of the hut. Another smaller one is to go on
top of the Ramp. They took the screen out on one of Day's bicycle wheel carriages and found
it ran very easily over the salty ice where the sledges give so much trouble. This vehicle
is not easily turned, but may be very useful before there is much snowfall.

Yesterday a balloon was sent up and reached a very good height (probably 2 to 3 miles) before
the instrument disengaged; the balloon went almost straight up and the silk fell in festoons
over the rocky part of the Cape, affording a very difficult clue to follow; but whilst Bowers
was following it, Atkinson observed the instrument fall a few hundred yards out on the Bay--it
was recovered and gives the first important record of upper air temperature.

Atkinson and Crean put out the fish trap in about 3 fathoms of water off the west beach; both
yesterday morning and yesterday evening when the trap was raised it contained over forty fish,
whilst this morning and this evening the catches in the same spot have been from twenty to
twenty-five. We had fish for breakfast this morning, but an even more satisfactory result of
the catches has been revealed by Atkinson's microscope. He had discovered quite a number of
new parasites and found work to last quite a long time.

Last night it came to my turn to do night watchman again, so that I shall be glad to have a
good sleep to-night.

Yesterday we had a game of football; it is pleasant to mess about, but the light is failing.

Clissold is still producing food novelties; to-night we had galantine of seal--it was excellent.

Monday, May 8--Tuesday, May 9.--As one of the series of lectures I gave an outline of my plans
for next season on Monday evening. Everyone was interested naturally. I could not but hint
that in my opinion the problem of reaching the Pole can best be solved by relying on the ponies
and man haulage. With this sentiment the whole company appeared to be in sympathy. Everyone
seems to distrust the dogs when it comes to glacier and summit. I have asked everyone to give
thought to the problem, to freely discuss it, and bring suggestions to my notice. It's going
to be a tough job; that is better realised the more one dives into it.

To-day (Tuesday) Debenham has been showing me his photographs taken west. With Wright's and
Taylor's these will make an extremely interesting series--the ice forms especially in the region
of the Koettlitz glacier are unique.

The Strait has been frozen over a week. I cannot understand why the Hut Point party doesn't
return. The weather continues wonderfully calm though now looking a little unsettled. Perhaps
the unsettled look stops the party, or perhaps it waits for the moon, which will be bright
in a day or two.

Any way I wish it would return, and shall not be free from anxiety till it does.

Cherry-Garrard is experimenting in stone huts and with blubber fires--all with a view to prolonging
the stay at Cape Crozier.

Bowers has placed one thermometer screen on the floe about 3/4' out, and another smaller one
above the Ramp. Oddly, the floe temperature seems to agree with that on Wind Vane Hill, whilst
the hut temperature is always 4° or 5° colder in calm weather. To complete the records a thermometer
is to be placed in South Bay.

Science--the rock foundation of all effort!!

Wednesday, May 10.--It has been blowing from the South 12 to 20 miles per hour since last night;
the ice remains fast. The temperature -12° to -19°. The party does not come. I went well beyond
Inaccessible Island till Hut Point and Castle Rock appeared beyond Tent Island, that is, well
out on the space which was last seen as open water. The ice is 9 inches thick, not much for
eight or nine days' freezing; but it is very solid--the surface wet but very slippery. I suppose
Meares waits for 12 inches in thickness, or fears the floe is too slippery for the ponies.

Yet I wish he would come.

I took a thermometer on my walk to-day; the temperature was -12° inside Inaccessible Island,
but only -8° on the sea ice outside--the wind seemed less outside. Coming in under lee of Island
and bergs I was reminded of the difficulty of finding shelter in these regions. The weather
side of hills seems to afford better shelter than the lee side, as I have remarked elsewhere.
May it be in part because all lee sides tend to be filled by drift snow, blown and weathered
rock debris? There was a good lee under one of the bergs; in one corner the ice sloped out
over me and on either side, forming a sort of grotto; here the air was absolutely still.

Ponting gave us an interesting lecture on Burmah, illustrated with fine slides. His descriptive
language is florid, but shows the artistic temperament. Bowers and Simpson were able to give
personal reminiscences of this land of pagodas, and the discussion led to interesting statements
on the religion, art, and education of its people, their philosophic idleness, &c. Our lectures
are a real success.

Friday, May 12.--Yesterday morning was quiet. Played football in the morning; wind got up in
the afternoon and evening.

All day it has been blowing hard, 30 to 60 miles an hour; it has never looked very dark overhead,
but a watery cirrus has been in evidence for some time, causing well marked paraselene.

I have not been far from the hut, but had a great fear on one occasion that the ice had gone
out in the Strait.

The wind is dropping this evening, and I have been up to Wind Vane Hill. I now think the ice
has remained fast.

There has been astonishingly little drift with the wind, probably due to the fact that there
has been so very little snowfall of late.

Atkinson is pretty certain that he has isolated a very motile bacterium in the snow. It is
probably air borne, and though no bacteria have been found in the air, this may be carried
in upper currents and brought down by the snow. If correct it is an interesting discovery.

To-night Debenham gave a geological lecture. It was elementary. He gave little more than the
rough origin and classification of rocks with a view to making his further lectures better
understood.

Saturday, May 13.--The wind dropped about 10 last night. This morning it was calm and clear
save for a light misty veil of ice crystals through which the moon shone with scarce clouded
brilliancy, surrounded with bright cruciform halo and white paraselene. Mock moons with prismatic
patches of colour appeared in the radiant ring, echoes of the main source of light. Wilson
has a charming sketch of the phenomenon.

I went to Inaccessible Island, and climbing some way up the steep western face, reassured myself
concerning the ice. It was evident that there had been no movement in consequence of yesterday's
blow.

In climbing I had to scramble up some pretty steep rock faces and screens, and held on only
in anticipation of gaining the top of the Island and an easy descent. Instead of this I came
to an impossible overhanging cliff of lava, and was forced to descend as I had come up. It
was no easy task, and I was glad to get down with only one slip, when I brought myself up with
my ice axe in the nick of time to prevent a fall over a cliff. This Island is very steep on
all sides. There is only one known place of ascent; it will be interesting to try and find others.

After tea Atkinson came in with the glad tidings that the dog team were returning from Hut
Point. We were soon on the floe to welcome the last remnant of our wintering party. Meares
reported everything well and the ponies not far behind.

The dogs were unharnessed and tied up to the chains; they are all looking remarkably fit--apparently
they have given no trouble at all of late; there have not even been any fights.

Half an hour later Day, Lashly, Nelson, Forde, and Keohane arrived with the two ponies--men
and animals in good form.

It is a great comfort to have the men and dogs back, and a greater to contemplate all the ten
ponies comfortably stabled for the winter. Everything seems to depend on these animals.

I have not seen the meteorological record brought back, but it appears that the party had had
very fine calm weather since we left them, except during the last three days when wind has
been very strong. It is curious that we should only have got one day with wind.

I am promised the sea-freezing record to-morrow. Four seals were got on April 22, the day after
we left, and others have been killed since, so that there is a plentiful supply of blubber
and seal meat at the hut--the rest of the supplies seem to have been pretty well run out. Some
more forage had been fetched in from the depot. A young sea leopard had been killed on the
sea ice near Castle Rock three days ago, this being the second only found in the Sound.

It is a strange fact that none of the returning party seem to greatly appreciate the food luxuries
they have had since their return. It would have been the same with us had we not had a day
or two in tents before our return. It seems more and more certain that a very simple fare is
all that is needed here--plenty of seal meat, flour, and fat, with tea, cocoa, and sugar; these
are the only real requirements for comfortable existence.

The temperatures at Hut Point have not been as low as I expected. There seems to have been
an extraordinary heat wave during the spell of calm recorded since we left--the thermometer
registering little below zero until the wind came, when it fell to -20°. Thus as an exception
we have had a fall instead of a rise of temperature with wind.

[The exact inventory of stores at Hut Point here recorded has no immediate bearing on the history
of the expedition, but may be noted as illustrating the care and thoroughness with which all
operations were conducted. Other details as to the carbide consumed in making acetylene gas
may be briefly quoted. The first tin was opened on February 1, the second on March 26. The
seventh on May 20, the next eight at the average interval of 9 1/2 days.]

Sunday, May 14.--Grey and dull in the morning.

Exercised the ponies and held the usual service. This morning I gave Wright some notes containing
speculations on the amount of ice on the Antarctic continent and on the effects of winter movements
in the sea ice. I want to get into his head the larger bearing of the problems which our physical
investigations involve. He needs two years here to fully realise these things, and with all
his intelligence and energy will produce little unless he has that extended experience.

The sky cleared at noon, and this afternoon I walked over the North Bay to the ice cliffs--such
a very beautiful afternoon and evening--the scene bathed in moonlight, so bright and pure as
to be almost golden, a very wonderful scene. At such times the Bay seems strangely homely,
especially when the eye rests on our camp with the hut and lighted windows.

I am very much impressed with the extraordinary and general cordiality of the relations which
exist amongst our people. I do not suppose that a statement of the real truth, namely, that
there is no friction at all, will be credited--it is so generally thought that the many rubs
of such a life as this are quietly and purposely sunk in oblivion. With me there is no need
to draw a veil; there is nothing to cover. There are no strained relations in this hut, and
nothing more emphatically evident than the universally amicable spirit which is shown on all
occasions.

Such a state of affairs would be delightfully surprising under any conditions, but it is much
more so when one remembers the diverse assortment of our company.

This theme is worthy of expansion. To-night Oates, captain in a smart cavalry regiment, has
been 'scrapping' over chairs and tables with Debenham, a young Australian student.

It is a triumph to have collected such men.

The temperature has been down to -23°, the lowest yet recorded here--doubtless we shall soon
get lower, for I find an extraordinary difference between this season as far as it has gone
and those of 1902-3.

CHAPTER X

In Winter Quarters: Modern Style

Monday, May 15.--The wind has been strong from the north all day--about 30 miles an hour. A
bank of stratus cloud about 6000 or 7000 feet (measured by Erebus) has been passing rapidly
overhead towards the north; it is nothing new to find the overlying layers of air moving in
opposite directions, but it is strange that the phenomenon is so persistent. Simpson has frequently
remarked as a great feature of weather conditions here the seeming reluctance of the air to
'mix'--the fact seems to be the explanation of many curious fluctuations of temperature.

Went for a short walk, but it was not pleasant. Wilson gave an interesting lecture on penguins.
He explained the primitive characteristics in the arrangement of feathers on wings and body,
the absence of primaries and secondaries or bare tracts; the modification of the muscles of
the wings and in the structure of the feet (the metatarsal joint). He pointed out (and the
subsequent discussion seemed to support him) that these birds probably branched at a very early
stage of bird life--coming pretty directly from the lizard bird Archaeopteryx of the Jurassic
age. Fossils of giant penguins of Eocene and Miocene ages show that there has been extremely
little development since.

He passed on to the classification and habitat of different genera, nest-making habits, eggs,
&c. Then to a brief account of the habits of the Emperors and Adelies, which was of course
less novel ground for the old hands.

Of special points of interest I recall his explanation of the desirability of embryonic study
of the Emperor to throw further light on the development of the species in the loss of teeth,
&c.; and Ponting's contribution and observation of adult Adelies teaching their young to swim--this
point has been obscure. It has been said that the old birds push the young into the water,
and, per contra, that they leave them deserted in the rookery--both statements seemed unlikely.
It would not be strange if the young Adelie had to learn to swim (it is a well-known requirement
of the Northern fur seal--sea bear), but it will be interesting to see in how far the adult
birds lay themselves out to instruct their progeny.

During our trip to the ice and sledge journey one of our dogs, Vaida, was especially distinguished
for his savage temper and generally uncouth manners. He became a bad wreck with his poor coat
at Hut Point, and in this condition I used to massage him; at first the operation was mistrusted
and only continued to the accompaniment of much growling, but later he evidently grew to like
the warming effect and sidled up to me whenever I came out of the hut, though still with some
suspicion. On returning here he seemed to know me at once, and now comes and buries his head
in my legs whenever I go out of doors; he allows me to rub him and push him about without the
slightest protest and scampers about me as I walk abroad. He is a strange beast--I imagine
so unused to kindness that it took him time to appreciate it.

Tuesday, May 16.--The north wind continued all night but dropped this forenoon. Conveniently
it became calm at noon and we had a capital game of football. The light is good enough, but
not much more than good enough, for this game.

Had some instruction from Wright this morning on the electrical instruments.

Later went into our carbide expenditure with Day: am glad to find it sufficient for two years,
but am not making this generally known as there are few things in which economy is less studied
than light if regulations allow of waste.

Electrical Instruments

For measuring the ordinary potential gradient we have two self-recording quadrant electrometers.
The principle of this instrument is the same as that of the old Kelvin instrument; the clockwork
attached to it unrolls a strip of paper wound on a roller; at intervals the needle of the instrument
is depressed by an electromagnet and makes a dot on the moving paper. The relative position
of these dots forms the record. One of our instruments is adjusted to give only 1/10th the
refinement of measurement of the other by means of reduction in the length of the quartz fibre.
The object of this is to continue the record in snowstorms, &c., when the potential difference
of air and earth is very great. The instruments are kept charged with batteries of small Daniels
cells. The clocks are controlled by a master clock.

The instrument available for radio-activity measurements is a modified type of the old gold-leaf
electroscope. The measurement is made by the mutual repulsion of quartz fibres acting against
a spring--the extent of the repulsion is very clearly shown against a scale magnified by a
telescope.

The measurements to be made with instrument are various:

The ionization of the air. A length of wire charged with 2000 volts (negative) is exposed to
the air for several hours. It is then coiled on a frame and its rate of discharge measured
by the electroscope.

The radio-activity of the various rocks of our neighbourhood; this by direct measurement of
the rock.

The conductivity of the air, that is, the relative movement of ions in the air; by movement
of air past charged surface. Rate of absorption of + and - ions is measured, the negative ion
travelling faster than the positive.

Wednesday, May 17.--For the first time this season we have a rise of temperature with a southerly
wind. The wind force has been about 30 since yesterday evening; the air is fairly full of snow
and the temperature has risen to -6° from -18°.

I heard one of the dogs barking in the middle of the night, and on inquiry learned that it
was one of the 'Serais,' [22] that he seemed to have something wrong with his hind leg, and
that he had been put under shelter. This morning the poor brute was found dead.

I'm afraid we can place but little reliance on our dog teams and reflect ruefully on the misplaced
confidence with which I regarded the provision of our transport. Well, one must suffer for
errors of judgment.

This afternoon Wilson held a post-mortem on the dog; he could find no sufficient cause of death.
This is the third animal that has died at winter quarters without apparent cause. Wilson, who
is nettled, proposes to examine the brain of this animal to-morrow.

Went up the Ramp this morning. There was light enough to see our camp, and it looked homely,
as it does from all sides. Somehow we loom larger here than at Cape Armitage. We seem to be
more significant. It must be from contrast of size; the larger hills tend to dwarf the petty
human element.

To-night the wind has gone back to the north and is now blowing fresh.

This sudden and continued complete change of direction is new to our experience.

Oates has just given us an excellent little lecture on the management of horses.

He explained his plan of feeding our animals 'soft' during the winter, and hardening them up
during the spring. He pointed out that the horse's natural food being grass and hay, he would
naturally employ a great number of hours in the day filling a stomach of small capacity with
food from which he could derive only a small percentage of nutriment.

Hence it is desirable to feed horses often and light. His present routine is as follows:

Morning.--Chaff.

Noon, after exercise.--Snow. Chaff and either oats or oil-cake alternate days.

Evening, 5 P.M.--Snow. Hot bran mash with oil-cake or boiled oats and chaff; finally a small
quantity of hay. This sort of food should be causing the animals to put on flesh, but is not
preparing them for work. In October he proposes to give 'hard' food, all cold, and to increase
the exercising hours.

As concerning the food we possess he thinks:

The chaff made of young wheat and hay is doubtful; there does not seem to be any grain with
it--and would farmers cut young wheat? There does not seem to be any 'fat' in this food, but
it is very well for ordinary winter purposes.

N.B.--It seems to me this ought to be inquired into. Bran much discussed, but good because
it causes horses to chew the oats with which mixed.

Oil-cake, greasy, producing energy--excellent for horses to work on.

Oats, of which we have two qualities, also very good working food--our white quality much better
than the brown.

Our trainer went on to explain the value of training horses, of getting them 'balanced' to
pull with less effort. He owns it is very difficult when one is walking horses only for exercise,
but thinks something can be done by walking them fast and occasionally making them step backwards.

Oates referred to the deeds that had been done with horses by foreigners in shows and with
polo ponies by Englishmen when the animals were trained; it is, he said, a sort of gymnastic
training.

The discussion was very instructive and I have only noted the salient points.

Thursday, May 18.--The wind dropped in the night; to-day it is calm, with slight snowfall.
We have had an excellent football match--the only outdoor game possible in this light.

I think our winter routine very good, I suppose every leader of a party has thought that, since
he has the power of altering it. On the other hand, routine in this connection must take into
consideration the facilities of work and play afforded by the preliminary preparations for
the expedition. The winter occupations of most of our party depend on the instruments and implements,
the clothing and sledging outfit, provided by forethought, and the routine is adapted to these
occupations.

The busy winter routine of our party may therefore be excusably held as a subject for self-congratulation.

Friday, May 19.--Wind from the north in the morning, temperature comparatively high (about
-6°). We played football during the noon hour--the game gets better as we improve our football
condition and skill.

In the afternoon the wind came from the north, dying away again late at night.

In the evening Wright lectured on 'Ice Problems.' He had a difficult subject and was nervous.
He is young and has never done original work; is only beginning to see the importance of his task.

He started on the crystallisation of ice, and explained with very good illustrations the various
forms of crystals, the manner of their growth under different conditions and different temperatures.
This was instructive. Passing to the freezing of salt water, he was not very clear. Then on
to glaciers and their movements, theories for same and observations in these regions.

There was a good deal of disconnected information--silt bands, crevasses were mentioned. Finally
he put the problems of larger aspect.

The upshot of the discussion was a decision to devote another evening to the larger problems
such as the Great Ice Barrier and the interior ice sheet. I think I will write the paper to
be discussed on this occasion.

I note with much satisfaction that the talks on ice problems and the interest shown in them
has had the effect of making Wright devote the whole of his time to them. That may mean a great
deal, for he is a hard and conscientious worker.

Atkinson has a new hole for his fish trap in 15 fathoms; yesterday morning he got a record
catch of forty-three fish, but oddly enough yesterday evening there were only two caught.

Saturday, May 20.--Blowing hard from the south, with some snow and very cold. Few of us went
far; Wilson and Bowers went to the top of the Ramp and found the wind there force 6 to 7, temperature
-24°; as a consequence they got frost-bitten. There was lively cheering when they reappeared
in this condition, such is the sympathy which is here displayed for affliction; but with Wilson
much of the amusement arises from his peculiarly scant headgear and the confessed jealousy
of those of us who cannot face the weather with so little face protection.

The wind dropped at night.

Sunday, May 21.--Observed as usual. It blew from the north in the morning. Had an idea to go
to Cape Royds this evening, but it was reported that the open water reached to the Barne Glacier,
and last night my own observation seemed to confirm this.

This afternoon I started out for the open water. I found the ice solid off the Barne Glacier
tongue, but always ahead of me a dark horizon as though I was within a very short distance
of its edge. I held on with this appearance still holding up to C. Barne itself and then past
that Cape and half way between it and C. Royds. This was far enough to make it evident that
the ice was continuous to C. Royds, and has been so for a long time. Under these circumstances
the continual appearance of open water to the north is most extraordinary and quite inexplicable.

Have had some very interesting discussions with Wilson, Wright, and Taylor on the ice formations
to the west. How to account for the marine organisms found on the weathered glacier ice north
of the Koettlitz Glacier? We have been elaborating a theory under which this ice had once a
negative buoyancy due to the morainic material on top and in the lower layers of the ice mass,
and had subsequently floated when the greater amount of this material had weathered out.

Have arranged to go to C. Royds to-morrow.

The temperatures have sunk very steadily this year; for a long time they hung about zero, then
for a considerable interval remained about -10°; now they are down in the minus twenties, with
signs of falling (to-day -24°).

Bowers' meteorological stations have been amusingly named Archibald, Bertram, Clarence--they
are entered by the initial letter, but spoken of by full title.

To-night we had a glorious auroral display--quite the most brilliant I have seen. At one time
the sky from N.N.W. to S.S.E. as high as the zenith was massed with arches, band, and curtains,
always in rapid movement. The waving curtains were especially fascinating--a wave of bright
light would start at one end and run along to the other, or a patch of brighter light would
spread as if to reinforce the failing light of the curtain.

Auroral Notes

The auroral light is of a palish green colour, but we now see distinctly a red flush preceding
the motion of any bright part.

The green ghostly light seems suddenly to spring to life with rosy blushes. There is infinite
suggestion in this phenomenon, and in that lies its charm; the suggestion of life, form, colour
and movement never less than evanescent, mysterious,--no reality. It is the language of mystic
signs and portents--the inspiration of the gods--wholly spiritual--divine signalling. Remindful
of superstition, provocative of imagination. Might not the inhabitants of some other world
(Mars) controlling mighty forces thus surround our globe with fiery symbols, a golden writing
which we have not the key to decipher?

There is argument on the confession of Ponting's inability to obtain photographs of the aurora.
Professor Stormer of Norway seems to have been successful. Simpson made notes of his method,
which seems to depend merely on the rapidity of lens and plate. Ponting claims to have greater
rapidity in both, yet gets no result even with long exposure. It is not only a question of
aurora; the stars are equally reluctant to show themselves on Ponting's plate. Even with five
seconds exposure the stars become short lines of light on the plate of a fixed camera. Stormer's
stars are points and therefore his exposure must have been short, yet there is detail in some
of his pictures which it seems impossible could have been got with a short exposure. It is
all very puzzling.

Monday, May 22.--Wilson, Bowers, Atkinson, Evans (P.O.), Clissold, and self went to C. Royds
with a 'go cart' carrying our sleeping-bags, a cooker, and a small quantity of provision.

The 'go cart' consists of a framework of steel tubing supported on four bicycle wheels.

The surface of the floes carries 1 to 2 inches of snow, barely covering the salt ice flowers,
and for this condition this vehicle of Day's is excellent. The advantage is that it meets the
case where the salt crystals form a heavy frictional surface for wood runners. I'm inclined
to think that there are great numbers of cases when wheels would be more efficient than runners
on the sea ice.

We reached Cape Royds in 2 1/2 hours, killing an Emperor penguin in the bay beyond C. Barne.
This bird was in splendid plumage, the breast reflecting the dim northern light like a mirror.

It was fairly dark when we stumbled over the rocks and dropped on to Shackleton's Hut. Clissold
started the cooking-range, Wilson and I walked over to the Black beach and round back by Blue Lake.

The temperature was down at -31° and the interior of the hut was very cold.

Tuesday, May 23.--We spent the morning mustering the stores within and without the hut, after
a cold night which we passed very comfortably in our bags.

We found a good quantity of flour and Danish butter and a fair amount of paraffin, with smaller
supplies of assorted articles--the whole sufficient to afford provision for such a party as
ours for about six or eight months if well administered. In case of necessity this would undoubtedly
be a very useful reserve to fall back upon. These stores are somewhat scattered, and the hut
has a dilapidated, comfortless appearance due to its tenantless condition; but even so it seemed
to me much less inviting than our old Discovery hut at C. Armitage.

After a cup of cocoa there was nothing to detain us, and we started back, the only useful articles
added to our weights being a scrap or two of leather and five hymn-books. Hitherto we have
been only able to muster seven copies; this increase will improve our Sunday Services.

Wednesday, May 24.--A quiet day with northerly wind; the temperature rose gradually to zero.
Having the night duty, did not go out. The moon has gone and there is little to attract one
out of doors.

Atkinson gave us an interesting little discourse on parasitology, with a brief account of the
life history of some ecto- and some endo-parasites--Nematodes, Trematodes. He pointed out how
that in nearly every case there was a secondary host, how in some cases disease was caused,
and in others the presence of the parasite was even helpful. He acknowledged the small progress
that had been made in this study. He mentioned ankylostomiasis, blood-sucking worms, Bilhartsia
(Trematode) attacking bladder (Egypt), Filaria (round tapeworm), Guinea worm, Trichina (pork),
and others, pointing to disease caused.

From worms he went to Protozoa-Trypanosomes, sleeping sickness, host tsetse-fly--showed life
history comparatively, propagated in secondary host or encysting in primary host--similarly
malarial germs spread by Anopheles mosquitoes--all very interesting.

In the discussion following Wilson gave some account of the grouse disease worm, and especially
of the interest in finding free living species almost identical; also part of the life of disease
worm is free living. Here we approached a point pressed by Nelson concerning the degeneration
consequent on adoption of the parasitic habit. All parasites seem to have descended from free
living beasts. One asks 'what is degeneration?' without receiving a very satisfactory answer.
After all, such terms must be empirical.

Thursday, May 25.--It has been blowing from south with heavy gusts and snow, temperature extraordinarily
high, -6°. This has been a heavy gale. The weather conditions are certainly very interesting;
Simpson has again called attention to the wind in February, March, and April at Cape Evans--the
record shows an extraordinary large percentage of gales. It is quite certain that we scarcely
got a fraction of the wind on the Barrier and doubtful if we got as much at Hut Point.

Friday, May 26.--A calm and clear day--a nice change from recent weather. It makes an enormous
difference to the enjoyment of this life if one is able to get out and stretch one's legs every
day. This morning I went up the Ramp. No sign of open water, so that my fears for a broken
highway in the coming season are now at rest. In future gales can only be a temporary annoyance--anxiety
as to their result is finally allayed.

This afternoon I searched out ski and ski sticks and went for a short run over the floe. The
surface is quite good since the recent snowfall and wind. This is satisfactory, as sledging
can now be conducted on ordinary lines, and if convenient our parties can pull on ski. The
young ice troubles of April and May have passed away. It is curious that circumstances caused
us to miss them altogether during our stay in the Discovery.

We are living extraordinarily well. At dinner last night we had some excellent thick seal soup,
very much like thick hare soup; this was followed by an equally tasty seal steak and kidney
pie and a fruit jelly. The smell of frying greeted us on awaking this morning, and at breakfast
each of us had two of our nutty little Notothenia fish after our bowl of porridge. These little
fish have an extraordinarily sweet taste--bread and butter and marmalade finished the meal.
At the midday meal we had bread and butter, cheese, and cake, and to-night I smell mutton in
the preparation. Under the circumstances it would be difficult to conceive more appetising
repasts or a regime which is likely to produce scorbutic symptoms. I cannot think we shall
get scurvy.

Nelson lectured to us to-night, giving a very able little elementary sketch of the objects
of the biologist. A fact struck one in his explanation of the rates of elimination. Two of
the offspring of two parents alone survive, speaking broadly; this the same of the human species
or the 'ling,' with 24,000,000 eggs in the roe of each female! He talked much of evolution,
adaptation, &c. Mendelism became the most debated point of the discussion; the transmission
of characters has a wonderful fascination for the human mind. There was also a point striking
deep in the debate on Professor Loeb's experiments with sea urchins; how far had he succeeded
in reproducing the species without the male spermatozoa? Not very far, it seemed, when all
was said.

A theme for a pen would be the expansion of interest in polar affairs; compare the interests
of a winter spent by the old Arctic voyagers with our own, and look into the causes. The aspect
of everything changes as our knowledge expands.

The expansion of human interest in rude surroundings may perhaps best be illustrated by comparisons.
It will serve to recall such a simple case as the fact that our ancestors applied the terms
horrid, frightful, to mountain crags which in our own day are more justly admired as lofty,
grand, and beautiful.

The poetic conception of this natural phenomenon has followed not so much an inherent change
of sentiment as the intimacy of wider knowledge and the death of superstitious influence. One
is much struck by the importance of realising limits.

Saturday, May 27.--A very unpleasant, cold, windy day. Annoyed with the conditions, so did
not go out.

In the evening Bowers gave his lecture on sledging diets. He has shown great courage in undertaking
the task, great perseverance in unearthing facts from books, and a considerable practical skill
in stringing these together. It is a thankless task to search polar literature for dietary
facts and still more difficult to attach due weight to varying statements. Some authors omit
discussion of this important item altogether, others fail to note alterations made in practice
or additions afforded by circumstances, others again forget to describe the nature of various
food stuffs.

Our lecturer was both entertaining and instructive when he dealt with old time rations; but
he naturally grew weak in approaching the physiological aspect of the question. He went through
with it manfully and with a touch of humour much appreciated; whereas, for instance, he deduced
facts from 'the equivalent of Mr. Joule, a gentleman whose statements he had no reason to doubt.'

Wilson was the mainstay of the subsequent discussion and put all doubtful matters in a clearer
light. 'Increase your fats (carbohydrate)' is what science seems to say, and practice with
conservativism is inclined to step cautiously in response to this urgence. I shall, of course,
go into the whole question as thoroughly as available information and experience permits. Meanwhile
it is useful to have had a discussion which aired the popular opinions.

Feeling went deepest on the subject of tea versus cocoa; admitting all that can be said concerning
stimulation and reaction, I am inclined to see much in favour of tea. Why should not one be
mildly stimulated during the marching hours if one can cope with reaction by profounder rest
during the hours of inaction?

Sunday, May 28.--Quite an excitement last night. One of the ponies (the grey which I led last
year and salved from the floe) either fell or tried to lie down in his stall, his head being
lashed up to the stanchions on either side. In this condition he struggled and kicked till
his body was twisted right round and his attitude extremely uncomfortable. Very luckily his
struggles were heard almost at once, and his head ropes being cut, Oates got him on his feet
again. He looked a good deal distressed at the time, but is now quite well again and has been
out for his usual exercise.

Held Service as usual.

This afternoon went on ski around the bay and back across. Little or no wind; sky clear, temperature
-25°. It was wonderfully mild considering the temperature--this sounds paradoxical, but the
sensation of cold does not conform to the thermometer--it is obviously dependent on the wind
and less obviously on the humidity of the air and the ice crystals floating in it. I cannot
very clearly account for this effect, but as a matter of fact I have certainly felt colder
in still air at -10° than I did to-day when the thermometer was down to -25°, other conditions
apparently equal.

The amazing circumstance is that by no means can we measure the humidity, or indeed the precipitation
or evaporation. I have just been discussing with Simpson the insuperable difficulties that
stand in the way of experiment in this direction, since cold air can only hold the smallest
quantities of moisture, and saturation covers an extremely small range of temperature.

Monday, May 29.--Another beautiful calm day. Went out both before and after the mid-day meal.
This morning with Wilson and Bowers towards the thermometer off Inaccessible Island. On the
way my companionable dog was heard barking and dimly seen--we went towards him and found that
he was worrying a young sea leopard. This is the second found in the Strait this season. We
had to secure it as a specimen, but it was sad to have to kill. The long lithe body of this
seal makes it almost beautiful in comparison with our stout, bloated Weddells. This poor beast
turned swiftly from side to side as we strove to stun it with a blow on the nose. As it turned
it gaped its jaws wide, but oddly enough not a sound came forth, not even a hiss.

After lunch a sledge was taken out to secure the prize, which had been photographed by flashlight.

Ponting has been making great advances in flashlight work, and has opened up quite a new field
in which artistic results can be obtained in the winter.

Lecture--Japan. To-night Ponting gave us a charming lecture on Japan with wonderful illustrations
of his own. He is happiest in his descriptions of the artistic side of the people, with which
he is in fullest sympathy. So he took us to see the flower pageants. The joyful festivals of
the cherry blossom, the wistaria, the iris and chrysanthemum, the sombre colours of the beech
blossom and the paths about the lotus gardens, where mankind meditated in solemn mood. We had
pictures, too, of Nikko and its beauties, of Temples and great Buddhas. Then in more touristy
strain of volcanoes and their craters, waterfalls and river gorges, tiny tree-clad islets,
that feature of Japan--baths and their bathers, Ainos, and so on. His descriptions were well
given and we all of us thoroughly enjoyed our evening.

Tuesday, May 30.--Am busy with my physiological investigations. [23] Atkinson reported a sea
leopard at the tide crack; it proved to be a crab-eater, young and very active. In curious
contrast to the sea leopard of yesterday in snapping round it uttered considerable noise, a
gasping throaty growl.

Went out to the outer berg, where there was quite a collection of people, mostly in connection
with Ponting, who had brought camera and flashlight.

It was beautifully calm and comparatively warm. It was good to hear the gay chatter and laughter,
and see ponies and their leaders come up out of the gloom to add liveliness to the scene. The
sky was extraordinarily clear at noon and to the north very bright.

We have had an exceptionally large tidal range during the last three days--it has upset the
tide gauge arrangements and brought a little doubt on the method. Day is going into the question,
which we thoroughly discussed to-day. Tidal measurements will be worse than useless unless
we can be sure of the accuracy of our methods. Pools of salt water have formed over the beach
floes in consequence of the high tide, and in the chase of the crab eater to-day very brilliant
flashes of phosphorescent light appeared in these pools. We think it due to a small cope-pod.
I have just found a reference to the same phenomena in Nordenskiöld's 'Vega.' He, and apparently
Bellot before him, noted the phenomenon. An interesting instance of bi-polarity.

Another interesting phenomenon observed to-day was a cirrus cloud lit by sunlight. It was seen
by Wilson and Bowers 5° above the northern horizon--the sun is 9° below our horizon, and without
refraction we calculate a cloud could be seen which was 12 miles high. Allowing refraction
the phenomenon appears very possible.

Wednesday, May 31.--The sky was overcast this morning and the temperature up to -13°. Went
out after lunch to 'Land's End.' The surface of snow was sticky for ski, except where drifts
were deep. There was an oppressive feel in the air and I got very hot, coming in with head
and hands bare.

At 5, from dead calm the wind suddenly sprang up from the south, force 40 miles per hour, and
since that it has been blowing a blizzard; wind very gusty, from 20 to 60 miles. I have never
known a storm come on so suddenly, and it shows what possibility there is of individuals becoming
lost even if they only go a short way from the hut.

To-night Wilson has given us a very interesting lecture on sketching. He started by explaining
his methods of rough sketch and written colour record, and explained its suitability to this
climate as opposed to coloured chalks, &c.--a very practical method for cold fingers and one
that becomes more accurate with practice in observation. His theme then became the extreme
importance of accuracy, his mode of expression and explanation frankly Ruskinesque. Don't put
in meaningless lines--every line should be from observation. So with contrast of light and
shade--fine shading, subtle distinction, everything--impossible without care, patience, and
trained attention.

He raised a smile by generalising failures in sketches of others of our party which had been
brought to him for criticism. He pointed out how much had been put in from preconceived notion.
'He will draw a berg faithfully as it is now and he studies it, but he leaves sea and sky to
be put in afterwards, as he thinks they must be like sea and sky everywhere else, and he is
content to try and remember how these should be done.' Nature's harmonies cannot be guessed at.

He quoted much from Ruskin, leading on a little deeper to 'Composition,' paying a hearty tribute
to Ponting.

The lecture was delivered in the author's usual modest strain, but unconsciously it was expressive
of himself and his whole-hearted thoroughness. He stands very high in the scale of human beings--how
high I scarcely knew till the experience of the past few months.

There is no member of our party so universally esteemed; only to-night I realise how patiently
and consistently he has given time and attention to help the efforts of the other sketchers,
and so it is all through; he has had a hand in almost every lecture given, and has been consulted
in almost every effort which has been made towards the solution of the practical or theoretical
problems of our polar world.

The achievement of a great result by patient work is the best possible object lesson for struggling
humanity, for the results of genius, however admirable, can rarely be instructive. The chief
of the Scientific Staff sets an example which is more potent than any other factor in maintaining
that bond of good fellowship which is the marked and beneficent characteristic of our community.

CHAPTER XI

To Midwinter Day

Thursday, June 1.--The wind blew hard all night, gusts arising to 72 m.p.h.; the anemometer
choked five times--temperature +9°. It is still blowing this morning. Incidentally we have
found that these heavy winds react very conveniently on our ventilating system. A fire is always
a good ventilator, ensuring the circulation of inside air and the indraught of fresh air; its
defect as a ventilator lies in the low level at which it extracts inside air. Our ventilating
system utilises the normal fire draught, but also by suitable holes in the funnelling causes
the same draught to extract foul air at higher levels. I think this is the first time such
a system has been used. It is a bold step to make holes in the funnelling as obviously any
uncertainty of draught might fill the hut with smoke. Since this does not happen with us it
follows that there is always strong suction through our stovepipes, and this is achieved by
their exceptionally large dimensions and by the length of the outer chimney pipe.

With wind this draught is greatly increased and with high winds the draught would be too great
for the stoves if it were not for the relief of the ventilating holes.

In these circumstances, therefore, the rate of extraction of air automatically rises, and since
high wind is usually accompanied with marked rise of temperature, the rise occurs at the most
convenient season, when the interior of the hut would otherwise tend to become oppressively
warm. The practical result of the system is that in spite of the numbers of people living in
the hut, the cooking, and the smoking, the inside air is nearly always warm, sweet, and fresh.

There is usually a drawback to the best of arrangements, and I have said 'nearly' always. The
exceptions in this connection occur when the outside air is calm and warm and the galley fire,
as in the early morning, needs to be worked up; it is necessary under these conditions to temporarily
close the ventilating holes, and if at this time the cook is intent on preparing our breakfast
with a frying-pan we are quickly made aware of his intentions. A combination of this sort is
rare and lasts only for a very short time, for directly the fire is aglow the ventilator can
be opened again and the relief is almost instantaneous.

This very satisfactory condition of inside air must be a highly important factor in the preservation
of health.

I have to-day regularised the pony 'nicknames'; I must leave it to Drake to pull out the relation
to the 'proper' names according to our school contracts! [24]

The nicknames are as follows:

        James Pigg              Keohane
        Bones                   Crean
        Michael                 Clissold
        Snatcher                Evans (P.O.)
        Jehu
        China
        Christopher             Hooper
        Victor                  Bowers
        Snippets (windsucker)
        Nobby                   Lashly

Friday, June 2.--The wind still high. The drift ceased at an early hour yesterday; it is difficult
to account for the fact. At night the sky cleared; then and this morning we had a fair display
of aurora streamers to the N. and a faint arch east. Curiously enough the temperature still
remains high, about +7°.

The meteorological conditions are very puzzling.

Saturday, June 3.--The wind dropped last night, but at 4 A.M. suddenly sprang up from a dead
calm to 30 miles an hour. Almost instantaneously, certainly within the space of one minute,
there was a temperature rise of nine degrees. It is the most extraordinary and interesting
example of a rise of temperature with a southerly wind that I can remember. It is certainly
difficult to account for unless we imagine that during the calm the surface layer of cold air
is extremely thin and that there is a steep inverted gradient. When the wind arose the sky
overhead was clearer than I ever remember to have seen it, the constellations brilliant, and
the Milky Way like a bright auroral streamer.

The wind has continued all day, making it unpleasant out of doors. I went for a walk over the
land; it was dark, the rock very black, very little snow lying; old footprints in the soft,
sandy soil were filled with snow, showing quite white on a black ground. Have been digging
away at food statistics.

Simpson has just given us a discourse, in the ordinary lecture series, on his instruments.
Having already described these instruments, there is little to comment upon; he is excellently
lucid in his explanations.

As an analogy to the attempt to make a scientific observation when the condition under consideration
is affected by the means employed, he rather quaintly cited the impossibility of discovering
the length of trousers by bending over to see!

The following are the instruments described:

    Features

    The outside (bimetallic) thermograph.

    The inside thermograph (alcohol)
        Alcohol in spiral, small lead pipe--float vessel.

    The electrically recording anemometer
        Cam device with contact on wheel; slowing arrangement,
        inertia of wheel.

    The Dynes anemometer
        Parabola on immersed float.

    The recording wind vane
        Metallic pen.

    The magnetometer
        Horizontal force measured in two directions--vertical
        force in one--timing arrangement.

    The high and low potential apparatus of the balloon thermograph
        Spotting arrangement and difference, see ante.

Simpson is admirable as a worker, admirable as a scientist, and admirable as a lecturer.

Sunday, June 4.--A calm and beautiful day. The account of this, a typical Sunday, would run
as follows: Breakfast. A half-hour or so selecting hymns and preparing for Service whilst the
hut is being cleared up. The Service: a hymn; Morning prayer to the Psalms; another hymn; prayers
from Communion Service and Litany; a final hymn and our special prayer. Wilson strikes the
note on which the hymn is to start and I try to hit it after with doubtful success! After church
the men go out with their ponies.

To-day Wilson, Bowers, Cherry-Garrard, Lashly, and I went to start the building of our first
'igloo.' There is a good deal of difference of opinion as to the best implement with which
to cut snow blocks. Cherry-Garrard had a knife which I designed and Lashly made, Wilson a saw,
and Bowers a large trowel. I'm inclined to think the knife will prove most effective, but the
others don't acknowledge it yet. As far as one can see at present this knife should have a
longer handle and much coarser teeth in the saw edge--perhaps also the blade should be thinner.

We must go on with this hut building till we get good at it. I'm sure it's going to be a useful
art.

We only did three courses of blocks when tea-time arrived, and light was not good enough to
proceed after tea.

Sunday afternoon for the men means a 'stretch of the land.'

I went over the floe on ski. The best possible surface after the late winds as far as Inaccessible
Island. Here, and doubtless in most places along the shore, this, the first week of June, may
be noted as the date by which the wet, sticky salt crystals become covered and the surface
possible for wood runners. Beyond the island the snow is still very thin, barely covering the
ice flowers, and the surface is still bad.

There has been quite a small landslide on the S. side of the Island; seven or eight blocks
of rock, one or two tons in weight, have dropped on to the floe, an interesting instance of
the possibility of transport by sea ice.

Ponting has been out to the bergs photographing by flashlight. As I passed south of the Island
with its whole mass between myself and the photographer I saw the flashes of magnesium light,
having all the appearance of lightning. The light illuminated the sky and apparently objects
at a great distance from the camera. It is evident that there may be very great possibilities
in the use of this light for signalling purposes and I propose to have some experiments.

N.B.--Magnesium flashlight as signalling apparatus in the summer.

Another crab-eater seal was secured to-day; he had come up by the bergs.

Monday, June 5.--The wind has been S. all day, sky overcast and air misty with snow crystals.
The temperature has gone steadily up and to-night rose to + 16°. Everything seems to threaten
a blizzard which cometh not. But what is to be made of this extraordinary high temperature
heaven only knows. Went for a walk over the rocks and found it very warm and muggy.

Taylor gave us a paper on the Beardmore Glacier. He has taken pains to work up available information;
on the ice side he showed the very gradual gradient as compared with the Ferrar. If crevasses
are as plentiful as reported, the motion of glacier must be very considerable. There seem to
be three badly crevassed parts where the glacier is constricted and the fall is heavier.

Geologically he explained the rocks found and the problems unsolved. The basement rocks, as
to the north, appear to be reddish and grey granites and altered slate (possibly bearing fossils).
The Cloudmaker appears to be diorite; Mt. Buckley sedimentary. The suggested formation is of
several layers of coal with sandstone above and below; interesting to find if it is so and
investigate coal. Wood fossil conifer appears to have come from this--better to get leaves--wrap
fossils up for protection.

Mt. Dawson described as pinkish limestone, with a wedge of dark rock; this very doubtful! Limestone
is of great interest owing to chance of finding Cambrian fossils (Archeocyathus).

He mentioned the interest of finding here, as in Dry Valley, volcanic cones of recent date
(later than the recession of the ice). As points to be looked to in Geology and Physiography:

1. Hope Island shape.

2. Character of wall facets.

3. Type of tributary glacierscliff or curtain, broken.

4. Do tributaries enter 'at grade'?

5. Lateral gullies pinnacled, &c., shape and size of slope.

6. Do tributaries cut out gullies--empty unoccupied cirques,
   hangers, &c.

7. Do upland moraines show tesselation?

8. Arrangement of strata, inclusion of.

9. Types of moraines, distance of blocks.

10. Weathering of glaciers. Types of surface. (Thrust mark? Rippled,
    snow stool, glass house, coral reef, honeycomb, ploughshare,
    bastions, piecrust.)

11. Amount of water silt bands, stratified, or irregular folded
    or broken.

12. Cross section, of valleys 35° slopes?

13. Weather slopes debris covered, height to which.

14. Nunataks, height of rounded, height of any angle in profile,
    erratics.

15. Evidence of order in glacier delta.

Debenham in discussion mentioned usefulness of small chips of rock--many chips from several
places are more valuable than few larger specimens.

We had an interesting little discussion.

I must enter a protest against the use made of the word 'glaciated' by Geologists and Physiographers.

To them a 'glaciated land' is one which appears to have been shaped by former ice action.

The meaning I attach to the phrase, and one which I believe is more commonly current, is that
it describes a land at present wholly or partly covered with ice and snow.

I hold the latter is the obvious meaning and the former results from a piracy committed in
very recent times.

The alternative terms descriptive of the different meanings are ice covered and ice eroded.

To-day I have been helping the Soldier to design pony rugs; the great thing, I think, is to
get something which will completely cover the hindquarters.

Tuesday, June 6.--The temperature has been as high as +19° to-day; the south wind persisted
until the evening with clear sky except for fine effects of torn cloud round about the mountain.
To-night the moon has emerged from behind the mountain and sails across the cloudless northern
sky; the wind has fallen and the scene is glorious.

It is my birthday, a fact I might easily have forgotten, but my kind people did not. At lunch
an immense birthday cake made its appearance and we were photographed assembled about it. Clissold
had decorated its sugared top with various devices in chocolate and crystallised fruit, flags
and photographs of myself.

After my walk I discovered that great preparations were in progress for a special dinner, and
when the hour for that meal arrived we sat down to a sumptuous spread with our sledge banners
hung about us. Clissold's especially excellent seal soup, roast mutton and red currant jelly,
fruit salad, asparagus and chocolate--such was our menu. For drink we had cider cup, a mystery
not yet fathomed, some sherry and a liqueur.

After this luxurious meal everyone was very festive and amiably argumentative. As I write there
is a group in the dark room discussing political progress with discussions--another at one
corner of the dinner table airing its views on the origin of matter and the probability of
its ultimate discovery, and yet another debating military problems. The scraps that reach me
from the various groups sometimes piece together in ludicrous fashion. Perhaps these arguments
are practically unprofitable, but they give a great deal of pleasure to the participants. It's
delightful to hear the ring of triumph in some voice when the owner imagines he has delivered
himself of a well-rounded period or a clinching statement concerning the point under discussion.
They are boys, all of them, but such excellent good-natured ones; there has been no sign of
sharpness or anger, no jarring note, in all these wordy contests! all end with a laugh.

Nelson has offered Taylor a pair of socks to teach him some geology! This lulls me to sleep!

Wednesday, June 7.--A very beautiful day. In the afternoon went well out over the floe to the
south, looking up Nelson at his icehole and picking up Bowers at his thermometer. The surface
was polished and beautifully smooth for ski, the scene brightly illuminated with moonlight,
the air still and crisp, and the thermometer at -10°. Perfect conditions for a winter walk.

In the evening I read a paper on 'The Ice Barrier and Inland Ice.' I have strung together a
good many new points and the interest taken in the discussion was very genuine--so keen, in
fact, that we did not break up till close on midnight. I am keeping this paper, which makes
a very good basis for all future work on these subjects. (See Vol. II.)

Shelters to Iceholes

Time out of number one is coming across rediscoveries. Of such a nature is the building of
shelters for iceholes. We knew a good deal about it in the Discovery, but unfortunately did
not make notes of our experiences. I sketched the above figures for Nelson, and found on going
to the hole that the drift accorded with my sketch. The sketches explain themselves. I think
wall 'b' should be higher than wall 'a.'

My night on duty. The silent hours passed rapidly and comfortably. To bed 7 A.M.

Thursday, June 8.--Did not turn out till 1 P.M., then with a bad head, an inevitable sequel
to a night of vigil. Walked out to and around the bergs, bright moonlight, but clouds rapidly
spreading up from south.

Tried the snow knife, which is developing. Debenham and Gran went off to Hut Point this morning;
they should return to-morrow.

Friday, June 9.--No wind came with the clouds of yesterday, but the sky has not been clear
since they spread over it except for about two hours in the middle of the night when the moonlight
was so bright that one might have imagined the day returned.

Otherwise the web of stratus which hangs over us thickens and thins, rises and falls with very
bewildering uncertainty. We want theories for these mysterious weather conditions; meanwhile
it is annoying to lose the advantages of the moonlight.

This morning had some discussion with Nelson and Wright regarding the action of sea water in
melting barrier and sea ice. The discussion was useful to me in drawing attention to the equilibrium
of layers of sea water.

In the afternoon I went round the Razor Back Islands on ski, a run of 5 or 6 miles; the surface
was good but in places still irregular with the pressures formed when the ice was 'young.'

The snow is astonishingly soft on the south side of both islands. It is clear that in the heaviest
blizzard one could escape the wind altogether by camping to windward of the larger island.
One sees more and more clearly what shelter is afforded on the weather side of steep-sided objects.

Passed three seals asleep on the ice. Two others were killed near the bergs.

Saturday, June 10.--The impending blizzard has come; the wind came with a burst at 9.30 this
morning.

Simpson spent the night turning over a theory to account for the phenomenon, and delivered
himself of it this morning. It seems a good basis for the reference of future observations.
He imagines the atmosphere A C in potential equilibrium with large margin of stability, i.e.
the difference of temperature between A and C being much less than the adiabatic gradient.

In this condition there is a tendency to cool by radiation until some critical layer, B, reaches
its due point. A stratus cloud is thus formed at B; from this moment A B continues to cool,
but B C is protected from radiating, whilst heated by radiation from snow and possibly by release
of latent heat due to cloud formation.

The condition now rapidly approaches unstable equilibrium, B C tending to rise, A B to descend.

Owing to lack of sun heat the effect will be more rapid in south than north and therefore the
upset will commence first in the south. After the first start the upset will rapidly spread
north, bringing the blizzard. The facts supporting the theory are the actual formation of a
stratus cloud before a blizzard, the snow and warm temperature of the blizzard and its gusty
nature.

It is a pretty starting-point, but, of course, there are weak spots.

Atkinson has found a trypanosome in the fish--it has been stained, photographed and drawn--an
interesting discovery having regard to the few species that have been found. A trypanosome
is the cause of 'sleeping sickness.'

The blizzard has continued all day with a good deal of drift. I went for a walk, but the conditions
were not inviting.

We have begun to consider details of next season's travelling equipment. The crampons, repair
of finnesko with sealskin, and an idea for a double tent have been discussed to-day. P.O. Evans
and Lashly are delightfully intelligent in carrying out instructions.

Sunday, June 11.--A fine clear morning, the moon now revolving well aloft and with full face.

For exercise a run on ski to the South Bay in the morning and a dash up the Ramp before dinner.
Wind and drift arose in the middle of the day, but it is now nearly calm again.

At our morning service Cherry-Garrard, good fellow, vamped the accompaniment of two hymns;
he received encouraging thanks and will cope with all three hymns next Sunday.

Day by day news grows scant in this midwinter season; all events seem to compress into a small
record, yet a little reflection shows that this is not the case. For instance I have had at
least three important discussions on weather and ice conditions to-day, concerning which many
notes might be made, and quite a number of small arrangements have been made.

If a diary can be so inadequate here how difficult must be the task of making a faithful record
of a day's events in ordinary civilised life! I think this is why I have found it so difficult
to keep a diary at home.

Monday, June 12.--The weather is not kind to us. There has not been much wind to-day, but the
moon has been hid behind stratus cloud. One feels horribly cheated in losing the pleasure of
its light. I scarcely know what the Crozier party can do if they don't get better luck next month.

Debenham and Gran have not yet returned; this is their fifth day of absence.

Bowers and Cherry-Garrard went to Cape Royds this afternoon to stay the night. Taylor and Wright
walked there and back after breakfast this morning. They returned shortly after lunch.

Went for a short spin on ski this morning and again this afternoon. This evening Evans has
given us a lecture on surveying. He was shy and slow, but very painstaking, taking a deal of
trouble in preparing pictures, &c.

I took the opportunity to note hurriedly the few points to which I want attention especially
directed. No doubt others will occur to me presently. I think I now understand very well how
and why the old surveyors (like Belcher) failed in the early Arctic work.

1. Every officer who takes part in the Southern Journey ought to have
   in his memory the approximate variation of the compass at various
   stages of the journey and to know how to apply it to obtain a true
   course from the compass. The variation changes very slowly so that
   no great effort of memory is required.

2. He ought to know what the true course is to reach one depôt from
   another.

3. He should be able to take an observation with the theodolite.

4. He should be able to work out a meridian altitude observation.

5. He could advantageously add to his knowledge the ability to work
   out a longitude observation or an ex-meridian altitude.

6. He should know how to read the sledgemeter.

7. He should note and remember the error of the watch he carries and
   the rate which is ascertained for it from time to time.

8. He should assist the surveyor by noting the coincidences of objects,
   the opening out of valleys, the observation of new peaks, &c.19

Tuesday, June 13.--A very beautiful day. We revelled in the calm clear moonlight; the temperature
has fallen to -26°. The surface of the floe perfect for ski--had a run to South Bay in forenoon
and was away on a long circuit around Inaccessible Island in the afternoon. In such weather
the cold splendour of the scene is beyond description; everything is satisfying, from the deep
purple of the starry sky to the gleaming bergs and the sparkle of the crystals under foot.

Some very brilliant patches of aurora over the southern shoulder of the mountain. Observed
an exceedingly bright meteor shoot across the sky to the northward.

On my return found Debenham and Gran back from Cape Armitage. They had intended to start back
on Sunday, but were prevented by bad weather; they seemed to have had stronger winds than we.

On arrival at the hut they found poor little 'Mukaka' coiled up outside the door, looking pitifully
thin and weak, but with enough energy to bark at them.

This dog was run over and dragged for a long way under the sledge runners whilst we were landing
stores in January (the 7th). He has never been worth much since, but remained lively in spite
of all the hardships of sledging work. At Hut Point he looked a miserable object, as the hair
refused to grow on his hindquarters. It seemed as though he could scarcely continue in such
a condition, and when the party came back to Cape Evans he was allowed to run free alongside
the sledge.

On the arrival of the party I especially asked after the little animal and was told by Demetri
that he had returned, but later it transpired that this was a mistake--that he had been missed
on the journey and had not turned up again later as was supposed.

I learned this fact only a few days ago and had quite given up the hope of ever seeing the
poor little beast again. It is extraordinary to realise that this poor, lame, half-clad animal
has lived for a whole month by himself. He had blood on his mouth when found, implying the
capture of a seal, but how he managed to kill it and then get through its skin is beyond comprehension.
Hunger drives hard.

Wednesday, June 14.--Storms are giving us little rest. We found a thin stratus over the sky
this morning, foreboding ill. The wind came, as usual with a rush, just after lunch. At first
there was much drift--now the drift has gone but the gusts run up to 65 m.p.h.

Had a comfortless stroll around the hut; how rapidly things change when one thinks of the delights
of yesterday! Paid a visit to Wright's ice cave; the pendulum is installed and will soon be
ready for observation. Wright anticipates the possibility of difficulty with ice crystals on
the agate planes.

He tells me that he has seen some remarkably interesting examples of the growth of ice crystals
on the walls of the cave and has observed the same unaccountable confusion of the size of grains
in the ice, showing how little history can be gathered from the structure of ice.

This evening Nelson gave us his second biological lecture, starting with a brief reference
to the scientific classification of the organism into Kingdom, Phylum, Group, Class, Order,
Genus, Species; he stated the justification of a biologist in such an expedition, as being
'To determine the condition under which organic substances exist in the sea.'

He proceeded to draw divisions between the bottom organisms without power of motion, benthon,
the nekton motile life in mid-water, and the plankton or floating life. Then he led very prettily
on to the importance of the tiny vegetable organisms as the basis of all life.

In the killer whale may be found a seal, in the seal a fish, in the fish a smaller fish, in
the smaller fish a copepod, and in the copepod a diatom. If this be regular feeding throughout,
the diatom or vegetable is essentially the base of all.

Light is the essential of vegetable growth or metabolism, and light quickly vanishes in depth
of water, so that all ocean life must ultimately depend on the phyto-plankton. To discover
the conditions of this life is therefore to go to the root of matters.

At this point came an interlude--descriptive of the various biological implements in use in
the ship and on shore. The otter trawl, the Agassiz trawl, the 'D' net, and the ordinary dredger.

A word or two on the using of 'D' nets and then explanation of sieves for classifying the bottom,
its nature causing variation in the organisms living on it.

From this he took us amongst the tow-nets with their beautiful silk fabrics, meshes running
180 to the inch and materials costing 2 guineas the yard--to the German tow-nets for quantitative
measurements, the object of the latter and its doubtful accuracy, young fish trawls.

From this to the chemical composition of sea water, the total salt about 3.5 per cent, but
variable: the proportions of the various salts do not appear to differ, thus the chlorine test
detects the salinity quantitatively. Physically plankton life must depend on this salinity
and also on temperature, pressure, light, and movement.

(If plankton only inhabits surface waters, then density, temperatures, &c., of surface waters
must be the important factors. Why should biologists strive for deeper layers? Why should not
deep sea life be maintained by dead vegetable matter?)

Here again the lecturer branched off into descriptions of water bottles, deep sea thermometers,
and current-meters, the which I think have already received some notice in this diary. To what
depth light may extend is the difficult problem and we had some speculation, especially in
the debate on this question. Simpson suggested that laboratory experiment should easily determine.
Atkinson suggested growth of bacteria on a scratched plate. The idea seems to be that vegetable
life cannot exist without red rays, which probably do not extend beyond 7 feet or so. Against
this is an extraordinary recovery of Holosphera Firidis by German expedition from 2000 fathoms;
this seems to have been confirmed. Bowers caused much amusement by demanding to know 'If the
pycnogs (pycnogonids) were more nearly related to the arachnids (spiders) or crustaceans.'
As a matter of fact a very sensible question, but it caused amusement because of its sudden
display of long names. Nelson is an exceedingly capable lecturer; he makes his subject very
clear and is never too technical.

Thursday, June 15.--Keen cold wind overcast sky till 5.30 P.M. Spent an idle day.

Jimmy Pigg had an attack of colic in the stable this afternoon. He was taken out and doctored
on the floe, which seemed to improve matters, but on return to the stable he was off his feed.

This evening the Soldier tells me he has eaten his food, so I hope all be well again.

Friday, June 16.--Overcast again--little wind but also little moonlight. Jimmy Pigg quite recovered.

Went round the bergs in the afternoon. A great deal of ice has fallen from the irregular ones,
showing that a great deal of weathering of bergs goes on during the winter and hence that the
life of a berg is very limited, even if it remains in the high latitudes.

To-night Debenham lectured on volcanoes. His matter is very good, but his voice a little monotonous,
so that there were signs of slumber in the audience, but all woke up for a warm and amusing
discussion succeeding the lecture.

The lecturer first showed a world chart showing distribution of volcanoes, showing general
tendency of eruptive explosions to occur in lines. After following these lines in other parts
of the world he showed difficulty of finding symmetrical linear distribution near McMurdo Sound.
He pointed out incidentally the important inference which could be drawn from the discovery
of altered sandstones in the Erebus region. He went to the shapes of volcanoes:

The massive type formed by very fluid lavas--Mauna Loa (Hawaii), Vesuvius, examples.

The more perfect cones formed by ash talus--Fujiama, Discovery.

The explosive type with parasitic cones--Erebus, Morning, Etna.

Fissure eruption--historic only in Iceland, but best prehistoric examples Deccan (India) and
Oregon (U.S.).

There is small ground for supposing relation between adjacent volcanoes--activity in one is
rarely accompanied by activity in the other. It seems most likely that vent tubes are entirely
separate.

Products of volcanoes.--The lecturer mentioned the escape of quantities of free hydrogen--there
was some discussion on this point afterwards; that water is broken up is easily understood,
but what becomes of the oxygen? Simpson suggests the presence of much oxidizable material.

CO2 as a noxious gas also mentioned and discussed--causes mythical 'upas' tree--sulphurous
fumes attend final stages.

Practically little or no heat escapes through sides of a volcano.

There was argument over physical conditions influencing explosions--especially as to barometric
influence. There was a good deal of disjointed information on lavas, ropy or rapid flowing
and viscous--also on spatter cones and caverns.

In all cases lavas cool slowly--heat has been found close to the surface after 87 years. On
Etna there is lava over ice. The lecturer finally reviewed the volcanicity of our own neighbourhood.
He described various vents of Erebus, thinks Castle Rock a 'plug'--here some discussion--Observation
Hill part of old volcano, nothing in common with Crater Hill. Inaccessible Island seems to
have no connection with Erebus.

Finally we had a few words on the origin of volcanicity and afterwards some discussion on an
old point--the relation to the sea. Why are volcanoes close to sea? Debenham thinks not cause
and effect, but two effects resulting from same cause.

Great argument as to whether effect of barometric changes on Erebus vapour can be observed.
Not much was said about the theory of volcanoes, but Debenham touched on American theories--the
melting out from internal magma.

There was nothing much to catch hold of throughout, but discussion of such a subject sorts
one's ideas.

Saturday, June 17.--Northerly wind, temperature changeable, dropping to -16°.

Wind doubtful in the afternoon. Moon still obscured--it is very trying. Feeling dull in spirit
to-day.

Sunday, June 18.--Another blizzard--the weather is distressing. It ought to settle down soon,
but unfortunately the moon is passing.

Held the usual Morning Service. Hymns not quite successful to-day.

To-night Atkinson has taken the usual monthly measurement. I don't think there has been much
change.

Monday, June 19.--A pleasant change to find the air calm and the sky clear--temperature down
to -28°. At 1.30 the moon vanished behind the western mountains, after which, in spite of the
clear sky, it was very dark on the floe. Went out on ski across the bay, then round about the
cape, and so home, facing a keen northerly wind on return.

Atkinson is making a new fish trap hole; from one cause and another, the breaking of the trap,
and the freezing of the hole, no catch has been made for some time. I don't think we shall
get good catches during the dark season, but Atkinson's own requirements are small, and the
fish, though nice enough, are not such a luxury as to be greatly missed from our 'menu.'

Our daily routine has possessed a settled regularity for a long time. Clissold is up about
7 A.M. to start the breakfast. At 7.30 Hooper starts sweeping the floor and setting the table.
Between 8 and 8.30 the men are out and about, fetching ice for melting, &c. Anton is off to
feed the ponies, Demetri to see the dogs; Hooper bursts on the slumberers with repeated announcements
of the time, usually a quarter of an hour ahead of the clock. There is a stretching of limbs
and an interchange of morning greetings, garnished with sleepy humour. Wilson and Bowers meet
in a state of nature beside a washing basin filled with snow and proceed to rub glistening
limbs with this chilling substance. A little later with less hardihood some others may be seen
making the most of a meagre allowance of water. Soon after 8.30 I manage to drag myself from
a very comfortable bed and make my toilet with a bare pint of water. By about ten minutes to
9 my clothes are on, my bed is made, and I sit down to my bowl of porridge; most of the others
are gathered about the table by this time, but there are a few laggards who run the nine o'clock
rule very close. The rule is instituted to prevent delay in the day's work, and it has needed
a little pressure to keep one or two up to its observance. By 9.20 breakfast is finished, and
before the half-hour has struck the table has been cleared. From 9.30 to 1.30 the men are steadily
employed on a programme of preparation for sledging, which seems likely to occupy the greater
part of the winter. The repair of sleeping-bags and the alteration of tents have already been
done, but there are many other tasks uncompleted or not yet begun, such as the manufacture
of provision bags, crampons, sealskin soles, pony clothes, &c.

Hooper has another good sweep up the hut after breakfast, washes the mess traps, and generally
tidies things. I think it a good thing that in these matters the officers need not wait on
themselves; it gives long unbroken days of scientific work and must, therefore, be an economy
of brain in the long run.

We meet for our mid-day meal at 1.30 or 1.45, and spend a very cheerful half-hour over it.
Afterwards the ponies are exercised, weather permitting; this employs all the men and a few
of the officers for an hour or more--the rest of us generally take exercise in some form at
the same time. After this the officers go on steadily with their work, whilst the men do odd
jobs to while away the time. The evening meal, our dinner, comes at 6.30, and is finished within
the hour. Afterwards people read, write, or play games, or occasionally finish some piece of
work. The gramophone is usually started by some kindly disposed person, and on three nights
of the week the lectures to which I have referred are given. These lectures still command full
audiences and lively discussions.

At 11 P.M. the acetylene lights are put out, and those who wish to remain up or to read in
bed must depend on candle-light. The majority of candles are extinguished by midnight, and
the night watchman alone remains awake to keep his vigil by the light of an oil lamp.

Day after day passes in this fashion. It is not a very active life perhaps, but certainly not
an idle one. Few of us sleep more than eight hours out of the twenty-four.

On Saturday afternoon or Sunday morning some extra bathing takes place; chins are shaven, and
perhaps clean garments donned. Such signs, with the regular Service on Sunday, mark the passage
of the weeks.

To-night Day has given us a lecture on his motor sledge. He seems very hopeful of success,
but I fear is rather more sanguine in temperament than his sledge is reliable in action. I
wish I could have more confidence in his preparations, as he is certainly a delightful companion.

Tuesday, June 20.--Last night the temperature fell to -36°, the lowest we have had this year.
On the Ramp the minimum was -31°, not the first indication of a reversed temperature gradient.
We have had a calm day, as is usual with a low thermometer.

It was very beautiful out of doors this morning; as the crescent moon was sinking in the west,
Erebus showed a heavy vapour cloud, showing that the quantity is affected by temperature rather
than pressure.

I'm glad to have had a good run on ski.

The Cape Crozier party are preparing for departure, and heads have been put together to provide
as much comfort as the strenuous circumstances will permit. I came across a hint as to the
value of a double tent in Sverdrup's book, 'New Land,' and (P.O.) Evans has made a lining for
one of the tents; it is secured on the inner side of the poles and provides an air space inside
the tent. I think it is going to be a great success, and that it will go far to obviate the
necessity of considering the question of snow huts--though we shall continue our efforts in
this direction also.

Another new departure is the decision to carry eiderdown sleeping-bags inside the reindeer ones.

With such an arrangement the early part of the journey is bound to be comfortable, but when
the bags get iced difficulties are pretty certain to arise.

Day has been devoting his energies to the creation of a blubber stove, much assisted of course
by the experience gained at Hut Point.

The blubber is placed in an annular vessel, A. The oil from it passes through a pipe, B, and
spreads out on the surface of a plate, C, with a containing flange; d d are raised points which
serve as heat conductors; e e is a tin chimney for flame with air holes at its base.

To start the stove the plate C must be warmed with spirit lamp or primus, but when the blubber
oil is well alight its heat is quite sufficient to melt the blubber in And keep up the oil
supply--the heat gradually rises until the oil issues from B in a vaporised condition, when,
of course, the heat given off by the stove is intense.

This stove was got going this morning in five minutes in the outer temperature with the blubber
hard frozen. It will make a great difference to the Crozier Party if they can manage to build
a hut, and the experience gained will be everything for the Western Party in the summer. With
a satisfactory blubber stove it would never be necessary to carry fuel on a coast journey,
and we shall deserve well of posterity if we can perfect one.

The Crozier journey is to be made to serve a good many trial ends. As I have already mentioned,
each man is to go on a different food scale, with a view to determining the desirable proportion
of fats and carbohydrates. Wilson is also to try the effect of a double wind-proof suit instead
of extra woollen clothing.

If two suits of wind-proof will keep one as warm in the spring as a single suit does in the
summer, it is evident that we can face the summit of Victoria Land with a very slight increase
of weight.

I think the new crampons, which will also be tried on this journey, are going to be a great
success. We have returned to the last Discovery type with improvements; the magnalium sole
plates of our own crampons are retained but shod with 1/2-inch steel spikes; these plates are
rivetted through canvas to an inner leather sole, and the canvas is brought up on all sides
to form a covering to the 'finnesko' over which it is laced--they are less than half the weight
of an ordinary ski boot, go on very easily, and secure very neatly.

Midwinter Day, the turn of the season, is very close; it will be good to have light for the
more active preparations for the coming year.

Wednesday, June 21.--The temperature low again, falling to -36°. A curious hazy look in the
sky, very little wind. The cold is bringing some minor troubles with the clockwork instruments
in the open and with the acetylene gas plant--no insuperable difficulties. Went for a ski run
round the bergs; found it very dark and uninteresting.

The temperature remained low during night and Taylor reported a very fine display of Aurora.

Thursday, June 22.--MIDWINTER. The sun reached its maximum depression at about 2.30 P.M. on
the 22nd, Greenwich Mean Time: this is 2.30 A.M. on the 23rd according to the local time of
the 180th meridian which we are keeping. Dinner to-night is therefore the meal which is nearest
the sun's critical change of course, and has been observed with all the festivity customary
at Xmas at home.

At tea we broached an enormous Buzzard cake, with much gratitude to its provider, Cherry-Garrard.
In preparation for the evening our 'Union Jacks' and sledge flags were hung about the large
table, which itself was laid with glass and a plentiful supply of champagne bottles instead
of the customary mugs and enamel lime juice jugs. At seven o'clock we sat down to an extravagant
bill of fare as compared with our usual simple diet.

Beginning on seal soup, by common consent the best decoction that our cook produces, we went
on to roast beef with Yorkshire pudding, fried potatoes and Brussels sprouts. Then followed
a flaming plum-pudding and excellent mince pies, and thereafter a dainty savoury of anchovy
and cod's roe. A wondrous attractive meal even in so far as judged by our simple lights, but
with its garnishments a positive feast, for withal the table was strewn with dishes of burnt
almonds, crystallised fruits, chocolates and such toothsome kickshaws, whilst the unstinted
supply of champagne which accompanied the courses was succeeded by a noble array of liqueur
bottles from which choice could be made in the drinking of toasts.

I screwed myself up to a little speech which drew attention to the nature of the celebration
as a half-way mark not only in our winter but in the plans of the Expedition as originally
published. (I fear there are some who don't realise how rapidly time passes and who have barely
begun work which by this time ought to be in full swing.)

We had come through a summer season and half a winter,and had before us half a winter and a
second summer. We ought to know how we stood in every respect; we did know how we stood in
regard to stores and transport, and I especially thanked the officer in charge of stores and
the custodians of the animals. I said that as regards the future, chance must play a part,
but that experience showed me that it would have been impossible to have chosen people more
fitted to support me in the enterprise to the South than those who were to start in that direction
in the spring. I thanked them all for having put their shoulders to the wheel and given me
this confidence.

We drank to the Success of the Expedition.

Then everyone was called on to speak, starting on my left and working round the table; the
result was very characteristic of the various individuals--one seemed to know so well the style
of utterance to which each would commit himself.

Needless to say, all were entirely modest and brief; unexpectedly, all had exceedingly kind
things to say of me--in fact I was obliged to request the omission of compliments at an early
stage. Nevertheless it was gratifying to have a really genuine recognition of my attitude towards
the scientific workers of the Expedition, and I felt very warmly towards all these kind, good
fellows for expressing it.

If good will and happy fellowship count towards success, very surely shall we deserve to succeed.
It was matter for comment, much applauded, that there had not been a single disagreement between
any two members of our party from the beginning. By the end of dinner a very cheerful spirit
prevailed, and the room was cleared for Ponting and his lantern, whilst the gramophone gave
forth its most lively airs.

When the table was upended, its legs removed, and chairs arranged in rows, we had quite a roomy
lecture hall. Ponting had cleverly chosen this opportunity to display a series of slides made
from his own local negatives. I have never so fully realised his work as on seeing these beautiful
pictures; they so easily outclass anything of their kind previously taken in these regions.
Our audience cheered vociferously.

After this show the table was restored for snapdragon, and a brew of milk punch was prepared
in which we drank the health of Campbell's party and of our good friends in the Terra Nova.
Then the table was again removed and a set of lancers formed.

By this time the effect of stimulating liquid refreshment on men so long accustomed to a simple
life became apparent. Our biologist had retired to bed, the silent Soldier bubbled with humour
and insisted on dancing with Anton. Evans, P.O., was imparting confidences in heavy whispers.
Pat' Keohane had grown intensely Irish and desirous of political argument, whilst Clissold
sat with a constant expansive smile and punctuated the babble of conversation with an occasional
'Whoop' of delight or disjointed witticism. Other bright-eyed individuals merely reached the
capacity to enjoy that which under ordinary circumstances might have passed without evoking
a smile.

In the midst of the revelry Bowers suddenly appeared, followed by some satellites bearing an
enormous Christmas Tree whose branches bore flaming candles, gaudy crackers, and little presents
for all. The presents, I learnt, had been prepared with kindly thought by Miss Souper (Mrs.
Wilson's sister) and the tree had been made by Bowers of pieces of stick and string with coloured
paper to clothe its branches; the whole erection was remarkably creditable and the distribution
of the presents caused much amusement.

Whilst revelry was the order of the day within our hut, the elements without seemed desirous
of celebrating the occasion with equal emphasis and greater decorum. The eastern sky was massed
with swaying auroral light, the most vivid and beautiful display that I had ever seen--fold
on fold the arches and curtains of vibrating luminosity rose and spread across the sky, to
slowly fade and yet again spring to glowing life.

The brighter light seemed to flow, now to mass itself in wreathing folds in one quarter, from
which lustrous streamers shot upward, and anon to run in waves through the system of some dimmer
figure as if to infuse new life within it.

It is impossible to witness such a beautiful phenomenon without a sense of awe, and yet this
sentiment is not inspired by its brilliancy but rather by its delicacy in light and colour,
its transparency, and above all by its tremulous evanescence of form. There is no glittering
splendour to dazzle the eye, as has been too often described; rather the appeal is to the imagination
by the suggestion of something wholly spiritual, something instinct with a fluttering ethereal
life, serenely confident yet restlessly mobile.

One wonders why history does not tell us of 'aurora' worshippers, so easily could the phenomenon
be considered the manifestation of 'god' or 'demon.' To the little silent group which stood
at gaze before such enchantment it seemed profane to return to the mental and physical atmosphere
of our house. Finally when I stepped within, I was glad to find that there had been a general
movement bedwards, and in the next half-hour the last of the roysterers had succumbed to slumber.

Thus, except for a few bad heads in the morning, ended the High Festival of Midwinter.

There is little to be said for the artificial uplifting of animal spirits, yet few could take
great exception to so rare an outburst in a long run of quiet days.

After all we celebrated the birth of a season which for weal or woe must be numbered amongst
the greatest in our lives.

CHAPTER XII

Awaiting the Crozier Party

Friday, June 23--Saturday, June 24.--Two quiet, uneventful days and a complete return to routine.

Sunday, June 25.--I find I have made no mention of Cherry-Garrard's first number of the revived
South Polar Times, presented to me on Midwinter Day.

It is a very good little volume, bound by Day in a really charming cover of carved venesta
wood and sealskin. The contributors are anonymous, but I have succeeded in guessing the identity
of the greater number.

The Editor has taken a statistical paper of my own on the plans for the Southern Journey and
a well-written serious article on the Geological History of our region by Taylor. Except for
editorial and meteorological notes the rest is conceived in the lighter vein. The verse is
mediocre except perhaps for a quaint play of words in an amusing little skit on the sleeping-bag
argument; but an article entitled 'Valhalla' appears to me to be altogether on a different
level. It purports to describe the arrival of some of our party at the gates proverbially guarded
by St. Peter; the humour is really delicious and nowhere at all forced. In the jokes of a small
community it is rare to recognise one which would appeal to an outsider, but some of the happier
witticisms of this article seem to me fit for wider circulation than our journal enjoys at
present. Above all there is distinct literary merit in it--a polish which leaves you unable
to suggest the betterment of a word anywhere.

I unhesitatingly attribute this effort to Taylor, but Wilson and Garrard make Meares responsible
for it. If they are right I shall have to own that my judgment of attributes is very much at
fault. I must find out. [25]

A quiet day. Read Church Service as usual; in afternoon walked up the Ramp with Wilson to have
a quiet talk before he departs. I wanted to get his ideas as to the scientific work done.

We agreed as to the exceptionally happy organisation of our party.

I took the opportunity to warn Wilson concerning the desirability of complete understanding
with Ponting and Taylor with respect to their photographs and records on their return to civilisation.

The weather has been very mysterious of late; on the 23rd and 24th it continuously threatened
a blizzard, but now the sky is clearing again with all signs of fine weather.

Monday, June 26.--With a clear sky it was quite twilighty at noon to-day. Already such signs
of day are inspiriting. In the afternoon the wind arose with drift and again the prophets predicted
a blizzard. After an hour or two the wind fell and we had a calm, clear evening and night.
The blizzards proper seem to be always preceded by an overcast sky in accordance with Simpson's
theory.

Taylor gave a most interesting lecture on the physiographic features of the region traversed
by his party in the autumn. His mind is very luminous and clear and he treated the subject
with a breadth of view which was delightful. The illustrative slides were made from Debenham's
photographs, and many of them were quite beautiful. Ponting tells me that Debenham knows quite
a lot about photography and goes to work in quite the right way.

The lecture being a précis of Taylor's report there is no need to recapitulate its matter.
With the pictures it was startling to realise the very different extent to which tributary
glaciers have carved the channels in which they lie. The Canadian Glacier lies dead, but at
'grade' it has cut a very deep channel. The 'double curtain' hangs at an angle of 25°, with
practically no channel. Mention was made of the difference of water found in Lake Bonney by
me in December 1903 and the Western Party in February 1911. It seems certain that water must
go on accumulating in the lake during the two or three summer months, and it is hard to imagine
that all can be lost again by the winter's evaporation. If it does, 'evaporation' becomes a
matter of primary importance.

There was an excellent picture showing the find of sponges on the Koettlitz Glacier. Heaps
of large sponges were found containing corals and some shells, all representative of present-day
fauna. How on earth did they get to the place where found? There was a good deal of discussion
on the point and no very satisfactory solution offered. Cannot help thinking that there is
something in the thought that the glacier may have been weighted down with rubble which finally
disengaged itself and allowed the ice to rise. Such speculations are interesting.

Preparations for the start of the Crozier Party are now completed, and the people will have
to drag 253 lbs. per man--a big weight.

Day has made an excellent little blubber lamp for lighting; it has an annular wick and talc
chimney; a small circular plate over the wick conducts the heat down and raises the temperature
of combustion, so that the result is a clear white flame.

We are certainly within measurable distance of using blubber in the most effective way for
both heating and lighting, and this is an advance which is of very high importance to the future
of Antarctic Exploration.

Tuesday, June 27.--The Crozier Party departed this morning in good spirits--their heavy load
was distributed on two 9-feet sledges. Ponting photographed them by flashlight and attempted
to get a cinematograph picture by means of a flash candle. But when the candle was ignited
it was evident that the light would not be sufficient for the purpose and there was not much
surprise when the film proved a failure. The three travellers found they could pull their load
fairly easily on the sea ice when the rest of us stood aside for the trial. I'm afraid they
will find much more difficulty on the Barrier, but there was nothing now to prevent them starting,
and off they went.

With helping contingent I went round the Cape. Taylor and Nelson left at the Razor Back Island
and report all well. Simpson, Meares and Gran continued and have not yet returned.

Gran just back on ski; left party at 5 1/4 miles. Says Meares and Simpson are returning on
foot. Reports a bad bit of surface between Tent Island and Glacier Tongue. It was well that
the party had assistance to cross this.

This winter travel is a new and bold venture, but the right men have gone to attempt it. All
good luck go with them.

Coal Consumption

Bowers reports that present consumption (midwinter) = 4 blocks per day (100 lbs.).

An occasional block is required for the absolute magnetic hut. He reports 8 1/2 tons used since
landing. This is in excess of 4 blocks per day as follows:

        8 1/2 tons in 150 days = 127 lbs. per diem.
                               = 889 lbs. per week, or nearly 8 cwt.
                               = 20 1/2 tons per year.

Report August 4.

Used to date = 9 tons = 20,160 lbs.

Say 190 days at 106 lbs. per day.

Coal remaining 20 1/2 tons.

Estimate 8 tons to return of ship.

Total estimate for year, 17 tons. We should have 13 or 14 tons for next year.

A FRESH MS. BOOK

Quotations on the Flyleaf

'Where the (Queen's) Law does not carry it is irrational to exact an observance of other and
weaker rules.'--RUDYARD KIPLING.

Confident of his good intentions but doubtful of his fortitude.

'So far as I can venture to offer an opinion on such a matter, the purpose of our being in
existence, the highest object that human beings can set before themselves is not the pursuit
of any such chimera as the annihilation of the unknown; but it is simply the unwearied endeavour
to remove its boundaries a little further from our little sphere of action.'--HUXLEY.

Wednesday, June 28.--The temperature has been hovering around -30° with a clear sky--at midday
it was exceptionally light, and even two hours after noon I was able to pick my way amongst
the boulders of the Ramp. We miss the Crozier Party. Lectures have ceased during its absence,
so that our life is very quiet.

Thursday, June 29.--It seemed rather stuffy in the hut last night--I found it difficult to
sleep, and noticed a good many others in like case. I found the temperature was only 50°, but
that the small uptake on the stove pipe was closed. I think it would be good to have a renewal
of air at bed time, but don't quite know how to manage this.

It was calm all night and when I left the hut at 8.30. At 9 the wind suddenly rose to 40 m.p.h.
and at the same moment the temperature rose 10°. The wind and temperature curves show this
sudden simultaneous change more clearly than usual. The curious circumstance is that this blow
comes out of a clear sky. This will be disturbing to our theories unless the wind drops again
very soon.

The wind fell within an hour almost as suddenly as it had arisen; the temperature followed,
only a little more gradually. One may well wonder how such a phenomenon is possible. In the
middle of a period of placid calm and out of a clear sky there suddenly rushed upon one this
volume of comparatively warm air; it has come and gone like the whirlwind.

Whence comes it and whither goeth?

Went round the bergs after lunch on ski--splendid surface and quite a good light.

We are now getting good records with the tide gauge after a great deal of trouble. Day has
given much of his time to the matter, and after a good deal of discussion has pretty well mastered
the principles. We brought a self-recording instrument from New Zealand, but this was passed
over to Campbell. It has not been an easy matter to manufacture one for our own use. The wire
from the bottom weight is led through a tube filled with paraffin as in Discovery days, and
kept tight by a counter weight after passage through a block on a stanchion rising 6 feet above
the floe.

In his first instrument Day arranged for this wire to pass around a pulley, the revolution
of which actuated the pen of the recording drum. This should have been successful but for the
difficulty of making good mechanical connection between the recorder and the pulley. Backlash
caused an unreliable record, and this arrangement had to be abandoned. The motion of the wire
was then made to actuate the recorder through a hinged lever, and this arrangement holds, but
days and even weeks have been lost in grappling the difficulties of adjustment between the
limits of the tide and those of the recording drum; then when all seemed well we found that
the floe was not rising uniformly with the water. It is hung up by the beach ice. When we were
considering the question of removing the whole apparatus to a more distant point, a fresh crack
appeared between it and the shore, and on this 'hinge' the floe seems to be moving more freely.

Friday, June 30, 1911.--The temperature is steadily falling; we are descending the scale of
negative thirties and to-day reached its limit, -39°. Day has manufactured a current vane,
a simple arrangement: up to the present he has used this near the Cape. There is little doubt,
however, that the water movement is erratic and irregular inside the islands, and I have been
anxious to get observations which will indicate the movement in the 'Strait.' I went with him
to-day to find a crack which I thought must run to the north from Inaccessible Island. We discovered
it about 2 to 2 1/2 miles out and found it to be an ideal place for such work, a fracture in
the ice sheet which is constantly opening and therefore always edged with thin ice. Have told
Day that I think a bottle weighted so as to give it a small negative buoyancy, and attached
to a fine line, should give as good results as his vane and would be much handier. He now proposes
to go one better and put an electric light in the bottle.

We found that our loose dogs had been attacking a seal, and then came across a dead seal which
had evidently been worried to death some time ago. It appears Demetri saw more seal further
to the north, and this afternoon Meares has killed a large one as well as the one which was
worried this morning.

It is good to find the seals so close, but very annoying to find that the dogs have discovered
their resting-place.

The long spell of fine weather is very satisfactory.

Saturday, July 1, 1911.--We have designed new ski boots and I think they are going to be a
success. My object is to stick to the Huitfeldt binding for sledging if possible. One must
wear finnesko on the Barrier, and with finnesko alone a loose binding is necessary. For this
we brought 'Finon' bindings, consisting of leather toe straps and thong heel binding. With
this arrangement one does not have good control of his ski and stands the chance of a chafe
on the 'tendon Achillis.' Owing to the last consideration many had decided to go with toe strap
alone as we did in the Discovery. This brought into my mind the possibility of using the iron
cross bar and snap heel strap of the Huitfeldt on a suitable overshoe.

Evans, P.O., has arisen well to the occasion as a boot maker, and has just completed a pair
of shoes which are very nearly what we require.

The soles have two thicknesses of seal skin cured with alum, stiffened at the foot with a layer
of venesta board, and raised at the heel on a block of wood. The upper part is large enough
to contain a finnesko and is secured by a simple strap. A shoe weighs 13 oz. against 2 lbs.
for a single ski boot--so that shoe and finnesko together are less weight than a boot.

If we can perfect this arrangement it should be of the greatest use to us.

Wright has been swinging the pendulum in his cavern. Prodigious trouble has been taken to keep
the time, and this object has been immensely helped by the telephone communication between
the cavern, the transit instrument, and the interior of the hut. The timekeeper is perfectly
placed. Wright tells me that his ice platform proves to be five times as solid as the fixed
piece of masonry used at Potsdam. The only difficulty is the low temperature, which freezes
his breath on the glass window of the protecting dome. I feel sure these gravity results are
going to be very good.

The temperature has been hanging in the minus thirties all day with calm and clear sky, but
this evening a wind has sprung up without rise of temperature. It is now -32°, with a wind
of 25 m.p.h.--a pretty stiff condition to face outside!

Sunday, July 2.--There was wind last night, but this morning found a settled calm again, with
temperature as usual about -35°. The moon is rising again; it came over the shoulder of Erebus
about 5 P.M., in second quarter. It will cross the meridian at night, worse luck, but such
days as this will be pleasant even with a low moon; one is very glad to think the Crozier Party
are having such a peaceful time.

Sunday routine and nothing much to record.

Monday, July 3.--Another quiet day, the sky more suspicious in appearance. Thin stratus cloud
forming and dissipating overhead, curling stratus clouds over Erebus. Wind at Cape Crozier
seemed a possibility.

Our people have been far out on the floe. It is cheerful to see the twinkling light of some
worker at a water hole or hear the ring of distant voices or swish of ski.

Tuesday, July 4.--A day of blizzard and adventure.

The wind arose last night, and although the temperature advanced a few degrees it remained
at a very low point considering the strength of the wind.

This forenoon it was blowing 40 to 45 m.p.h. with a temperature -25° to -28°. No weather to
be in the open.

In the afternoon the wind modified slightly. Taylor and Atkinson went up to the Ramp thermometer
screen. After this, entirely without my knowledge, two adventurous spirits, Atkinson and Gran,
decided to start off over the floe, making respectively for the north and south Bay thermometers,
'Archibald' and 'Clarence.' This was at 5.30; Gran was back by dinner at 6.45, and it was only
later that I learned that he had gone no more than 200 or 300 yards from the land and that
it had taken him nearly an hour to get back again.

Atkinson's continued absence passed unnoticed until dinner was nearly over at 7.15, although
I had heard that the wind had dropped at the beginning of dinner and that it remained very
thick all round, with light snow falling.

Although I felt somewhat annoyed, I had no serious anxiety at this time, and as several members
came out of the hut I despatched them short distances to shout and show lanterns and arranged
to have a paraffin flare lit on Wind Vane Hill.

Evans, P.O., Crean and Keohane, being anxious for a walk, were sent to the north with a lantern.
Whilst this desultory search proceeded the wind sprang up again from the south, but with no
great force, and meanwhile the sky showed signs of clearing and the moon appeared dimly through
the drifting clouds. With such a guide we momentarily looked for the return of our wanderer,
and with his continued absence our anxiety grew. At 9.30 Evans, P.O., and his party returned
without news of him, and at last there was no denying the possibility of a serious accident.
Between 9.30 and 10 proper search parties were organised, and I give the details to show the
thoroughness which I thought necessary to meet the gravity of the situation. I had by this
time learnt that Atkinson had left with comparatively light clothing and, still worse, with
leather ski boots on his feet; fortunately he had wind clothing.

