THE PROFITS OF RELIGION

An Essay in Economic Interpretation

By UPTON SINCLAIR

The Profits of Religion

OFFERTORY

This book is a study of Supernaturalism from a new point of view--as a Source of Income and
a Shield to Privilege. I have searched the libraries through, and no one has done it before.
If you read it, you will see that it needed to be done. It has meant twenty-five years of thought
and a year of investigation. It contains the facts.

I publish the book myself, so that it may be available at the lowest possible price. I am giving
my time and energy, in return for one thing which you may give me--the joy of speaking a true
word and getting it heard.

The present volume is the first of a series, which will do for Education, Journalism and Literature
what has here been done for the Church: the four volumes making a work of revolutionary criticism,
an Economic Interpretation of Culture under the general title of "The Dead Hand."

CONTENTS

Introductory
 Bootstrap-lifting
 Religion

Book One: The Church of the Conquerors
 The Priestly Lie
 The Great Fear
 Salve Regina!
 Fresh Meat
 Priestly Empires
 Prayer-wheels
 The Butcher-Gods
 The Holy Inquisition
 Hell-fire

Book Two: The Church of Good Society
 The Rain Makers
 The Babylonian Fire-God
 The Medicine-men
 The Canonization of Incompetence
 Gibson's Preservative
 The Elders
 Church History
 Land and Livings
 Graft in Tail
 Bishops and Beer
 Anglicanism and Alcohol
 Dead Cats
 "Suffer Little Children"
 The Court-circular
 Horn-blowing
 Trinity Corporation
 Spiritual Interpretation

Book Three: The Church of the Servant Girls
 Charity
 God's Armor
 Thanksgivings
 The Holy Roman Empire
 Temporal Power
 Knights of Slavery
 Priests and Police
 The Church Militant
 The Church Triumphant
 God in the Schools
 The Menace
 King Coal
 The Unholy Alliance
 Secret Service
 Tax Exemption
  Holy History
 Das Centrum

Book Four: The Church of the Slavers
 The Face of Caesar
 Deutschland ueber Alles
 Der Tag
 King Cotton
 Witches and Women
 Moth and Rust
 To Lyman Abbott
 The Octopus
 The Industrial Shelley
 The Outlook for Graft
 Clerical Camouflage
 The Jungle

Book Five: The Church of the Merchants
 The Head Merchant
 "Herr Beeble"
 Holy Oil
 Rhetorical Black-hanging
 The Great American Fraud
 Riches in Glory
 Captivating Ideals
 Spook Hunting
 Running the Rapids
 Birth Control
 Sheep

Book Six: The Church of the Quacks
 Tabula Rasa
 The Book of Mormon
 Holy Rolling
 Bible Prophecy
 Koreshanity
 Mazdaznan
 Black Magic
 Mental Malpractice
 Science and Wealth
 New Nonsense
 "Dollars Want Me!"
 Spiritual Financiering
 The Graft of Grace

Book Seven: The Church of the Social Revolution
 Christ and Caesar
 Locusts and Wild Honey
 Mother Earth
 The Soap Box
 The Church Machine
 The Church Redeemed
 The Desire of Nations
 The Knowable
 "Nature's Insurgent Son
 The New Morality
 Envoi

INTRODUCTORY

Bootstrap-lifting

Bootstrap-lifting? says the reader.

It is a vision I have seen: upon a vast plain, men and women are gathered in dense throngs,
crouched in uncomfortable and distressing positions, their fingers hooked in the straps of
their boots. They are engaged in lifting themselves; tugging and straining until they grow
red in the face, exhausted. The perspiration streams from their foreheads, they show every
symptom of distress; the eyes of all are fixed, not upon each other, nor upon their boot-straps,
but upon the sky above. There is a look of rapture upon their faces, and now and then, amid
grunts and groans, they cry out with excitement and triumph.

I approach one and say to him, "Friend, what is this you are doing?"

He answers, without pausing to glance at me, "I am performing spiritual exercises. See how I rise?"

"But," I say, "you are not rising at all!"

Whereat he becomes instantly angry. "You are one of the scoffers!"

"But, friend," I protest, "don't you feel the earth under your feet?"

"You are a materialist!"

"But, friend, I can see--"

"You are without spiritual vision!"

And so I move on among the sweating and groaning hordes. Being of a sympathetic turn of mind,
I cannot help being distressed by the prevalence of this singular practice among so large a
portion of the human race. How is it possible that none of them should suspect the futility
of their procedure? Or can it really be that I am uncomprehending? That in some way they are
actually getting off the ground, or about to get off the ground?

Then I observe a new phenomenon: a man gliding here and there among the bootstrap-lifters,
approaching from the rear and slipping his hands into their pockets. The position of the spiritual
exercisers greatly facilitates his work; their eyes being cast up to heaven, they do not see
him, their thoughts being occupied, they do not heed him; he goes through their pockets at
leisure, and transfers the contents to a bag he carries, and then moves on to the next victim.
I watch him for a while, and finally approach and ask, "What are you doing, sir?"

He answers, "I am picking pockets."

"Oh," I say, puzzled by his matter-of-course tone. "But--I beg pardon--are you a thief?"

"Oh, no," hie answers, smilingly, "I am the agent of the Wholesale Pickpockets' Association.
This is Prosperity."

"I see," I reply. "And these people let you--"

"It is the law," he says. "It is also the gospel."

I turn, following his glance, and observe another person approaching--a stately figure, clad
in scarlet and purple robes, moving with slow dignity. He gazes about at the sweating and grunting
hordes; now and then he stops and lifts his hands in a gesture of benediction, and proclaims
in rolling tones, "Blessed are the Bootstrap-lifters, for theirs is the kingdom of Heaven."
He moves on, and after a bit stops and announces again, "Man doth not live by bread alone,
but by every word that cometh out of the mouth of the prophets and priests of Bootstrap-lifting."

Watching a while longer, I see this majestic one approach the agent of the Wholesale Pickpockets'
Association. The agent greets him as a friend, and proceeds to transfer to the pockets of his
capacious robes a generous share of the loot which he has collected. The majestic one does
not cringe, nor does he make any effort to hide what is going on. On the contrary he cries
aloud, "It is more blessed to give than to receive!" And again he cries, "The laborer is worthy
of his hire!" And a third time he cries, yet more sternly, "Render unto Caesar the things which
are Caesar's!" And the Bootstrap-lifters pause long enough to answer: "Lord have mercy upon
us, and incline our hearts to keep this law!" Then they renew their straining and tugging.

I step up, and in timid tones begin, "Reverend sir, will you tell me by what right you take
this wealth?"

Instantly a frown comes upon his face, and he cries in a voice of thunder, "Blasphemer!" And
all the Bootstrap-lifters desist from their lifting, and menace me with furious looks. There
is a general call for a policeman of the Wholesale Pickpockets' Association; and so I fall
silent, and slink away in the throng, and thereafter keep my thoughts to myself.

Over the vast plain I wander, observing a thousand strange and incredible and terrifying manifestations
of the Bootstrap-lifting impulse. There is, I discover, a regular propaganda on foot; a long
time ago--no man can recall how far back--the Wholesale Pickpockets made the discovery of the
ease with which a man's pockets could be rifled while he was preoccupied with spiritual exercises,
and they began offering prizes for the best essays in support of the practice. Now their propaganda
is everywhere triumphant, and year by year we see an increase in the rewards and emoluments
of the prophets and priests of the cult. The ground is covered with stately temples of various
designs, all of which I am told are consecrated to Bootstrap-lifting. I come to where a group
of people are occupied in laying the corner-stone of a new white marble structure; I inquire
and am informed it is the First Church of Bootstrap-lifters, Scientist. As I stand watching,
a card is handed to me, informing me that a lady will do my Bootstrap-lifting at five dollars
per lift.

I go on to another building, which I am told is a library containing volumes in defense of
the Bootstrap-lifters, published under the auspices of the Wholesale Pickpockets. I enter,
and find endless vistas of shelves, also several thousand current magazines and papers. I consult
these--for my legs have given out in the effort to visit and inspect all phases of the Bootstrap-lifting
practice. I discover that hardly a week passes that some one does not start a new cult, or
revive an old one; if I had a hundred life-times I could not know all the creeds and ceremonies,
the services and rituals, the litanies and liturgies, the hymns, anthems and offertories of
Bootstrap-lifting. There are the Holy Roman Bootstrap-lifters, whose priests are fed by Transubstantiation;
the established Anglican Bootstrap-lifters, whose priests live by "livings"; the Baptist Bootstrap-lifters,
whose preachers practice total immersion in Standard Oil. There are Yogi Bootstrap-lifters
with flowing robes of yellow silk; Theosophist Bootstrap-lifters with green and purple auras;
Mormon Bootstrap-lifters, Mazdaznan Bootstrap-lifters, Spiritualist and Spirit-Fruit, Millerite
and Dowieite, Holy Roller and Holy Jumper, Come-to-glory negro, Billy Sunday base-ball and
Salvation Army bass-drum Bootstrap-lifters. There are the thousand varieties of "New Thought"
Bootstrap-lifters; the mystic and transcendentalist, Swedenborgian and Jacob Boehme Bootstrap-lifters;
the Elbert Hubbard high-art Bootstrap-lifters with half a million magazinelets at two bits
apiece; the "uplift" and "optimist," the Ralph Waldo Trine and Orison Swett Marden Bootstrap-lifters
with a hundred thousand volumes at one dollar per volume. There are the Platonist and Hegelian
and Kantian professors of collegiate metaphysical Bootstrap-lifting at several thousand dollars
per year each. There are the Nietzschean Bootstrap-lifters, who lift themselves to the Superman,
and the art-for-art's-sake, neo-Pagan Bootstrap-lifters, who lift themselves down to the Ape.

Excepting possibly the last-mentioned group, the priests of all these cults, the singers, shouters,
prayers and exhorters of Bootstrap-lifting have as their distinguishing characteristic that
they do very little lifting at their own bootstraps, and less at any other man's. Now and then
you may see one bend and give a delicate tug, of a purely symbolical character: as when the
Supreme Pontiff of the Roman Bootstrap-lifters comes once a year to wash the feet of the poor;
or when the Sunday-school Superintendent of the Baptist Bootstrap-lifters shakes the hand of
one of his Colorado mine-slaves. But for the most part the priests and preachers of Bootstrap-lifting
walk haughtily erect, many of them being so swollen with prosperity that they could not reach
their bootstraps if they wanted to. Their role in life is to exhort other men to more vigorous
efforts at self-elevation, that the agents of the Wholesale Pickpockets' Association may ply
their immemorial role with less chance of interference.

Religion

The reader, offended by this raillery, asks if I mean to impugn the sincerity of all who preach
the supremacy of the soul. No; I admit the honesty of the heroes and madmen of history. All
I ask of the preacher is that he shall make an effort to practice his doctrine. Let him be
tormented like Don Quixote; let him go mad like Nietzsche; let him stand upon a pillar and
be devoured by worms like Simeon Stylites--on these terms I grant to any dreamer the right
to hold himself above economic science.

Man is an evasive beast, given to cultivating strange notions about himself. He is humiliated
by his simian ancestry, and tries to deny his animal nature, to persuade himself that he is
not limited by its weaknesses nor concerned in its fate. And this impulse may be harmless,
when it is genuine. But what are we to say when we see the formulas of heroic self-deception
made use of by unheroic self-indulgence? What are we to say when we see asceticism preached
to the poor by fat and comfortable retainers of the rich? What are we to say when we see idealism
become hypocrisy, and the moral and spiritual heritage of mankind twisted to the knavish purposes
of class-cruelty and greed? What I say is--Bootstrap-lifting!

It is the fate of many abstract words to be used in two senses, one good and the other bad.
Morality means the will to righteousness, or it means Anthony Comstock; democracy means the
rule of the people, or it means Tammany Hall. And so it is with the word "Religion". In its
true sense Religion is the most fundamental of the soul's impulses, the impassioned love of
life, the feeling of its preciousness, the desire to foster and further it. In that sense every
thinking man must be religious; in that sense Religion is a perpetually self-renewing force,
the very nature of our being. In that sense I have no thought of assailing it, I would make
clear that I hold it beyond assailment.

But we are denied the pleasure of using the word in that honest sense, because of another which
has been given to it. To the ordinary man "Religion" means, not the soul's longing for growth,
the "hunger and thirst after righteousness", but certain forms in which this hunger has manifested
itself in history, and prevails to-day throughout the world; that is to say, institutions having
fixed dogmas and "revelations", creeds and rituals, with an administering caste claiming supernatural
sanction. By such institutions the moral strivings of the race, the affections of childhood
and the aspirations of youth are made the prerogatives and stock in trade of ecclesiastical
hierarchies. It is the thesis of this book that "Religion" in this sense is a source of income
to parasites, and the natural ally of every form of oppression and exploitation.

If by my jesting at "Bootstrap-lifting" I have wounded some dear prejudice of the reader, let
me endeavor to speak in a more persuasive voice. I am a man who has suffered, and has seen
the suffering of others; I have devoted my life to analyzing the causes of the suffering, to
find out if it be necessary and fore-ordained, or if by any chance there be a way of escape
for future generations. I have found that the latter is the case; the suffering is needless,
it can with ease and certainty be banished from the earth. I know this with the knowledge of
science--in the same way that the navigator of a ship knows his latitude and longitude, and
the point of the compass to which he must steer in order to reach the port.

Come, reader, let us put aside prejudice, and the terrors of the cults of the unknown. The
power which made us has given us a mind, and the impulse to its use; let us see what can be
done with it to rid the earth of its ancient evils. And do not be troubled if at the outset
this book seems to be entirely "destructive". I assure you that I am no crude materialist,
I am not so shallow as to imagine that our race will be satisfied with a barren rationalism.
I know that the old symbols came out of the heart of man because they corresponded to certain
needs of the heart of man. I know that new symbols will be found, corresponding more exactly
to the needs of our time. If here I set to work to tear down an old and ramshackle building,
it is not from blind destructfulness, but as an architect who means to put a new and sounder
structure in its place. Before we part company, I shall submit the blue print of that new home
of the spirit.

BOOK ONE

The Church of the Conquerors

 I saw the Conquerors riding by
      With trampling feet of horse and men:
  Empire on empire like the tide
      Flooded the world and ebbed again;

 A thousand banners caught the sun,
      And cities smoked along the plain,
  And laden down with silk and gold
      And heaped up pillage groaned the wain.                     
         Kemp.

The Priestly Lie

When the first savage saw his hut destroyed by a bolt of lightning, he fell down upon his face
in terror. He had no conception of natural forces, of laws of electricity; he saw this event
as the act of an individual intelligence. To-day we read about fairies and demons, dryads and
fauns and satyrs, Wotan and Thor and Vulcan, Freie and Flora and Ceres, and we think of all
these as pretty fancies, play-products of the mind; losing sight of the fact that they were
originally meant with entire seriousness--that not merely did ancient man believe in them,
but was forced to believe in them, because the mind must have an explanation of things that
happen, and an individual intelligence was the only explanation available. The story of the
hero who slays the devouring dragon was not merely a symbol of day and night, of summer and
winter; it was a literal explanation of the phenomena, it was the science of early times.

Men imagined supernatural powers such as they could comprehend. If the lightning god destroyed
a hut, obviously it must be because the owner of the hut had given offense; so the owner must
placate the god, using those means which would be effective in the quarrels of men--presents
of roast meats and honey and fresh fruits, of wine and gold and jewels and women, accompanied
by friendly words and gestures of submission. And when in spite of all things the natural evil
did not cease, when the people continued to die of pestilence, then came the opportunity for
hysterical or ambitious persons to discover new ways of penetrating the mind of the god. There
would be dreamers of dreams and seers of visions and hearers of voices; readers of the entrails
of beasts and interpreters of the flight of birds; there would be burning bushes and stone
tablets on mountain-tops, and inspired words dictated to aged disciples on lonely islands.
There would arise special castes of men and women, learned in these sacred matters; and these
priestly castes would naturally emphasize the importance of their calling, would hold themselves
aloof from the common herd, endowed with special powers and entitled to special privileges.
They would interpret the oracles in ways favorable to themselves and their order; they would
proclaim themselves friends and confidants of the god, walking with him in the night-time,
receiving his messengers and angels, acting as his deputies in forgiving offenses, in dealing
punishments and in receiving gifts. They would become makers of laws and moral codes.

So builds itself up, in a thousand complex and complicated forms, the Priestly Lie.

There will be few readers of this book who have not been brought up under the spell of some
one of these systems of Supernaturalism; who have not been taught to speak with respect of
some particular priestly order, to thrill with awe at some particular sacred rite, to seek
respite from earthly woes in some particular ceremonial spell. These things are woven into
our very fibre in childhood; they are sanctified by memories of joys and griefs, they are confused
with spiritual struggles, they become part of all that is most vital in our lives. The reader
who wishes to emancipate himself from their thrall will do well to begin with a study of the
beliefs and practices of other sects than his own--a field where he is free to observe and
examine without fear of sacrilege. Let him look into Madame Blavatsky's "Secret Doctrine",
or her "Isis Unveiled"!--encyclopedias of the fantastic inventions which terror and longing
have wrung out of the tortured soul of man. Here are mysteries and solemnities, charms and
spells, illuminations and transmigrations, angels and demons, guides, controls and masters--all
of which it is permissible to refuse to support with gifts. Let the reader then go to James
Freeman Clarke's "Ten Great Religions", and realize how many billions of humans have lived
and died in the solemn certainty that their welfare on earth and in heaven depended upon their
accepting certain ideas and practicing certain rites, all mutually exclusive and incompatible,
each damning the others and the followers of the others. So gradually the realization will
come to him that the test of a doctrine about life and its welfare must be something else than
the fact that one was born to it.

The Great Fear

It was not the fault of primitive man that he was ignorant, nor that his ignorance made him
a prey to dread. The traces of his mental suffering will inspire in us only pity and sympathy;
for Nature is a grim school-mistress, and not all her lessons have yet been learned. We have
a right to scorn and anger only when we see this dread being diverted from its true function,
a stimulus to a search for knowledge, and made into a means of clamping down ignorance upon
the mind of the race. That this has been the deliberate policy of institutionalized Religion
no candid student can deny.

The first thing brought forth by the study of any religion,
ancient or modern, is that it is based upon Fear, born of it, fed
by it--and that it cultivates the source from which its
nourishment is derived. "The fear of divine anger", says Prof.
Jastrow, "runs as an undercurrent through the entire religious
literature of Babylonia and Assyria." In the words of
Tabi-utul-Enlil, King of ancient Nippur:
      Who is there that can grasp the will of the gods in heaven? 
    The plan of a god is full of mystery--who can understand it?  
   He who is still alive at evening is dead the next morning.     
In an instant he is cast into grief, in a moment he is crushed.

And that cry might be duplicated from almost any page of the Hebrew scriptures: the only difference
being that the Hebrews combined all their fears into one Great Fear. "The fear of the Lord
is the beginning of wisdom," we are told by Solomon of the thousand wives; and the Psalmist
repeats it. "Dominion and fear are with Him," cries Job. "How then can any man be just before
God? Or how can he be clean that is born of a woman? He goes on, in his lyrical rapture, "Sheol
is naked before Him, and Destruction hath no covering. . . . The pillars of heaven tremble
and are astonished at His rebuke. . . . The thunder of His power who can understand?" That
all this is some of the world's great poetry does not in the least alter the fact that it is
an abasement of the soul, an hysterical perversion of the facts of life, and a preparation
of the mind for the seeds of Priestcraft.

The Book of Job has been called a "Wisdom-drama": and what is the denouement of this drama,
what is ancient Hebrew wisdom's last word about life? "Wherefore I abhor myself," says Job,
"and repent in dust and ashes." The poor fellow has done nothing; we have been told at the
beginning that he "was perfect and upright, and one that feared God, and eschewed evil." But
the Sabeans and the Chaldeans rob him, and "the fire of God" falls from heaven and burns up
his sheep and his servants, and "a great wind from the wilderness" kills his sons and daughters;
and then his body becomes covered with boils--a phenomenon caused in part by worry, and the
consequent nervous indigestion, but mainly by excess of starch and deficiency of mineral salts
in the diet. Job, however, has never heard of the fasting cure for disease, and so he takes
him a potsherd to scrape himself withal, and he sits among the ashes--a highly unsanitary procedure
enforced by his religious ritual. So naturally he feels like a worm, and abhors himself, and
cries out: "I know that Thou canst do all things, and that no purpose of Thine can be restrained."
By which utter, unreasoning humility he succeeds in appeasing the Great Fear, and his friends
make a sacrifice of seven bullocks and seven rams--a feast for a whole templeful of priests--and
then "the Lord gave Job twice as much as he had before. . . .

You do not have to look very deeply into this "Wisdom-drama" to find out whose wisdom it is.
Confess your own ignorance and your own impotence, abandon yourself utterly, and then we, the
sacred Caste, the Keepers of the Holy Secrets, will secure you pardon and respite--in exchange
for fresh meat. Here are verses from a psalm of the ancient Babylonians, which "heathen" chant
is identical in spirit and purpose with the utterances of Job:

 The Sin that I have wrought, I know not;
  The unclean that I have eaten, I know not;
  The offense into which I have walked, I know not....
  The lord, in the wrath of his heart, hath regarded me;
  The god, in the anger of his heart, hath surrounded me;
  A goddess, known or unknown, hath wrought me sorrow....
  I sought for help, but no one took my hand;
  I wept, but no one harkened to me....
  The feet of my goddess I kiss, I touch them;
  To the god, known or unknown, I utter my prayer;
  O god, known or unknown, turn thy countenance, accept my 
       sacrifice;  
  O goddess, known or unknown, look mercifully on me! accept
       my sacrifice!

Salve Regina!

And now let the reader leap three thousand years of human history, of toil and triumph of the
intellect of man; and instead of a Hebrew manuscript or a Babylonian brick there confronts
him a little publication, printed on a modern rotary press in the capital of the United States
of America, bearing the date of October, 1914, and the title "Salve Regina". In it we find
"a beautiful prayer", composed by the late cardinal Rampolla; we are told that "Pius X attached
to it an indulgence of 100 days, each time it is piously recited, applicable to the souls in
purgatory."

O Blessed Virgin, Mother of God, cast a glance from Heaven, where thou sittest as Queen, upon
this poor sinner, your servant. Though conscious of his unworthiness.... he blesses and exalts
thee from his whole heart as the purest, the most beautiful and the most holy of creatures.
He blesses thy holy name. He blesses thy sublime prerogatives as real Mother of God, ever Virgin,
conceived without stain of sin, as co-Redemptress of the human race. He blesses the Eternal
Father who chose you, etc. He blesses the Incarnate Word, etc. He blesses the Divine Spirit,
etc. He blesses, exalts and thanks the most august Trinity, etc. O Virgin, holy and merciful
. . . be pleased to accept this little homage of your servant, and obtain for him also from
your divine Son pardon for his sins, Amen.

And then, looking more closely, we discover the purpose of this "beautiful prayer", and of
the neat little paper which prints it. "Salve Regina" is raising funds for the "National Shrine
of the Immaculate Conception", a home for more priests, and Catholic ladies who desire to collect
for it may receive little books which they are requested to return within three months. Pius
X writes a letter of warm endorsement, and sets an example by giving four hundred dollars "out
of his poverty"--or, to be more precise, out of the poverty of the pitiful peasantry of Italy.
There is included in the paper a form of bequest for "devoted clients of Our Blessed Mother",
and at the top of the editorial page the most alluring of all baits for the loving hearts of
the flock--that the names of deceased relatives and friends may be written in the collection
books, and will be transferred to the records of the Shrine, and these persons "will share
in all its spiritual benefits". In the days of Job it was with threats of boils and poverty
that the Priestly Lie maintained itself; but in the case of this blackest of all Terrors, transplanted
to our free Republic from the heart of the Dark Ages, the wretched victims see before their
eyes the glare of flames, and hear the shrieks of their loved ones writhing in torment through
uncounted ages and eternities.

Fresh Meat

In the days when I was experimenting with vegetarianism, I sought earnestly for evidence of
a non-meat-eating race; but candor compelled me to admit that man was like the monkey and the
pig and the bear--he was vegetarian when he could not help it. The advocates of the reform
insist that meat as a diet causes muddy brains and dulled nerves; but you would certainly never
suspect this from a study of history. What you find in history is that all men crave meat,
all struggle for it, and the strongest and cleverest get it. Everywhere you find the subject
classes living in the midst of animals which they tend, but whose flesh they rarely taste.
Even in modern America, sweet land of liberty, our millions of tenant farmers raise chickens
and geese and turkeys, and hardly venture to consume as much as an egg, but save everything
for the summer-boarder or the buyer from the city. It would not be too much to say of the cultural
records of early man that they all have to do, directly or indirectly, with the reserving of
fresh meat to the masters. In J. T. Trowbridge's cheerful tale of the adventures of Captain
Seaborn, we are told by the cannibal priest how idol-worship has ameliorated the morals of
the tribe--

 For though some warriors of renown
      Continue anthropophagous,
  'Tis rare that human flesh goes down
      The low-caste man's aesophagus!

I suspect that we should have to go back to the days of the cave-man to find the first lover
of the flesh-pots who put a taboo upon meat, and promised supernatural favors to all who would
exercise self-control, and instead of consuming their meat themselves, would bring it and lay
it upon the sacred griddle, or altar, where the god might come in the night-time and partake
of it. Certainly, at any rate, there are few religions of record in which such devices do not
appear. The early laws of the Hebrews are more concerned with delicatessen for the priests
than with any other subject whatever.

And the law goes on to instruct the priests to take certain choice, parts and "wave them for
a wave offering before the Lord: this is holy for the priest." What was done with the other
portions we are not told; but earlier in this same "Book of Numbers" we find the general law that

Every offering of all the holy things of the children of Israel, which they bring unto the
priest, shall be his. And every man's hallowed things shall be his: whatsoever any man giveth
to the priest, it shall be his.

In the same way we are told by Viscount Amberley that the priests of Ceylon first present the
gifts to the god, and then eat them. Among the Parsees, when a man dies, the relatives must
bring four new robes to the priests; if they do this, the priests wear the robes; if they fail
to do it, the dead man appears naked before the judgment-throne. The devotees are instructed
that "he who performs this rite succeeds in both worlds, and obtains a firm footing in both
worlds." Among the Buddhists, the followers give alms to the monks, and are told specifically
what advantages will thereby accrue to them. In the Aitareyo Brahmairiarn of the Rig-Veda we read

He who, knowing this, sacrifices according to this rite, is born from the womb of Agni and
the offerings, participates in the nature of the Rik, Yajus, and Saman, the Veda (sacred knowledge),
the Brahma (sacred element) and immortality, and is absorbed into the deity.

Among the Parsees the priest eats the bread and drinks the haoma, or juice of a plant, considered
to be both a plant and a god. Among the Episcopalians, a contemporary Christian sect, the sacred
juice is that of the grape, and the priest is not allowed to throw away what is left of it,
but is ordered "reverently to consume it." In as much as the priest is the sole judge of how
much good sherry wine he shall consecrate previous to the ceremony, it is to be expected that
the priests of this cult should be lukewarm towards the prohibition movement, and should piously
refuse to administer their sacrament with unfermented and uninteresting grape-juice.

Priestly Empires

In every human society of which we have record there has been one class which has done the
hard and exhausting work, the "hewers of wood and drawers of water"; and there has been another,
much smaller class which has done the directing. To belong to this latter class is to work
also, but with the head instead of the hands; it is also to enjoy the good things of life,
to live in the best houses, to eat the best food, to have choice of the most desirable women;
it is to have leisure to cultivate the mind and appreciate the arts, to acquire graces and
distinctions, to give laws and moral codes, to shape fashions and tastes, to be revered and
regarded--in short, to have Power. How to get this Power and to hold it has been the first
object of the thoughts of men from the beginning of time.

The most obvious method is by the sword; but this method is uncertain, for any man may take
up a sword, and some may succeed with it. It will be found that empires based upon military
force alone, however cruel they may be, are not permanent, and therefore not so dangerous to
progress; it is only when resistance is paralyzed by the agency of Superstition, that the race
can be subjected to systems of exploitation for hundreds and even thousands of years. The ancient
empires were all priestly empires; the kings ruled because they obeyed the will of the priests,
taught to them from childhood as the word of the gods.

Thus, for instance, Prescott tells us:

Terror, not love, was the spring of education with the Aztecs.... Such was the crafty policy
of the priests, who, by reserving to themselves the business of instruction, were enabled to
mould the young and plastic mind according to their own wills, and to train it early to implicit
reverence for religion and its ministers.

The historian goes on to indicate the economic harvest of this teaching:

To each of the principal temples, lands were annexed for the maintenance of the priests. The
estates were augmented by the policy or devotion of successive princes, until, under the last
Montezuma, they had swollen to an enormous extent, and covered every district of the empire.

And this concerning the frightful system of human sacrifices, whereby the priestly caste maintained
the prestige of its divinities:

At the dedication of the temple of Huitzilopochtli, in 1486, the prisoners, who for some years
had been reserved for the purpose, were ranged in files, forming a procession nearly two miles
long. The ceremony consumed several days, and seventy thousand captives are said to have perished
at the shrine of this terrible deity.

The same system appears in Professor Jastrow's account of the priesthood of Babylonia and Assyria:

The ultimate source of all law being the deity himself, the original legal tribunal was the
place where the image or symbol of the god stood. A legal decision was an oracle or omen, indicative
of the will of the god. The power thus lodged in the priests of Babylonia and Assyria was enormous.
They virtually held in their hands the life and death of the people.

And of the business side of this vast religious system:

The temples were the natural depositories of the legal archives, which in the course of centuries
grew to veritably enormous proportions. Records were made of all decisions; the facts were
set forth, and duly attested by witnesses. Business and marriage contracts, loans and deeds
of sale were in like manner drawn up in the presence of official scribes, who were also priests.
In this way all commercial transactions received the written sanction of the religious organization.
The temples themselves--at least in the large centres--entered into business relations with
the populace. In order to maintain the large household represented by such an organization
as that of the temple of Enlil of Nippur, that of Ningirsu at Lagash, that of Marduk at Babylon,
or that of Shamash at Sippar, large holdings of land were required which, cultivated by agents
for the priests, or farmed out with stipulations for a goodly share of the produce, secured
an income for the maintenance of the temple officials. The enterprise of the temples was expanded
to the furnishing of loans at interest--in later periods, at 20%--to barter in slaves, to dealings
in lands, besides engaging labor for work of all kinds directly needed for the temples. A large
quantity of the business documents found in the temple archives are concerned with the business
affairs of the temple, and we are justified in including the temples in the large centres as
among the most important business institutions of the country. In financial or monetary transactions
the position of the temples was not unlike that of national banks. . . .

And so on. We may venture the guess that the learned professor said more in that last sentence
than he himself intended, for his lectures were delivered in that temple of plutocracy, the
University of Pennsylvania, and paid out of an endowment which specifies that "all polemical
subjects shall be positively excluded!"

Prayer-wheels

These priestly empires exist in the world today. If we wish to find them we have only to ask
ourselves: What countries are making no contribution to the progress of the race? What countries
have nothing to give us, whether in art, science, or industry?

For example, Gervaise tells us of the Talapoins, or priests of Siam, that "they are exempted
from all public charges, they salute nobody, while everybody prostrates himself before them.
They are maintained at the public expense." In the same way we read of the negroes of the Caribbean
islands that "their priests and priestesses exercise an almost unlimited power." Miss Kingsley,
in her "West African Studies", tells us that if we desire to understand the institutions of
this district, we must study the native's religion.

For his religion has so firm a grasp upon his mind that it influences everything he does. It
is not a thing apart, as the religion of the Europeans is at times. The African cannot say,
"Oh, that is all right from a religious point of view, but one must be practical." To be practical,
to get on in the world, to live the day and night through, he must be right in the religious
point of view, namely, must be on working terms with the great world of spirits around him.
The knowledge of this spirit world constitutes the religion of the African, and his customs
and ceremonies arise from his idea of the best way to influence it.

Or consider Henry Savage Landor's account of Thibet:

