Mr. Crowl (timid lover) had in Edith's absence confirmed his previous hints, thrown out to
Mrs. Allen as feelers, by making a definite proposition. In brief, he had offered to settle
twenty-five thousand dollars on Edith the day she married him, and to take care of the rest
of the family.

"I have made enough," he said majestically, "to live the rest of my life like a gentleman,
and this offer is princely, if I say it myself. You can all ride in your carriage again." Then
he added, with his little black eyes growing hard and cunning, "If your daughter won't accept
my generosity, our relationship becomes merely one of business. Of course I shall foreclose.
Money is scarce here, and I shall probably be able to buy in the place at half its worth. Seems
to me," he concluded, looking at the case from his valuation of money, "there is not much room
for choice here."

And Mr. Crowl had been princely--for him. Mrs. Allen thought so, too, and lent herself to the
scheme with all the persistent energy that she could show in these matters. But, to do her
justice, she really thought she was doing what was best for Edith and all of them. She was
acting in accordance with her lifelong principle of providing for her family, in the one way
she believed in and understood. But sincerity and singleness of purpose made her all the more
dangerous as a tempter.

In one of Edith's most discouraged moods she broached the subject and explained Mr. Crowl's
offer, for he, prudent man, had left it to her.

Edith started violently, and the project was so revolting to her that she fled from the room.
But Mrs. Allen, with her small pertinacity, kept recurring to it at every opportunity. Though
it may seem a little strange, her mother's action did not so shock Edith as some might expect;
nor did the proposition seem so impossible as it might to some girls. She had all her life
been accustomed, through her mother, to the idea of marrying for money, and we can get used
to almost anything.

In March their money was very low. Going to Zell and taking care of her had involved much additional
expense. She found out that her mother had already accepted and used in part a loan of fifty
dollars from Mr. Crowl. Laura, from the long confinement of the winter, and from living on
fare too coarse and lacking in nutrition for her delicate organization, was growing very feeble.
Zell seemed in the first stages of consumption, and would soon be a sick, helpless burden.
The chill of dread grew stronger at Edith's heart.

"Oh, can it be possible that I shall be driven to it!" she often groaned; and she now saw,
as poor Laura said, "the black hand in the dark pushing her down." To her surprise her thoughts
kept reverting to Arden Lacey.

"What will he think of me if I do this?" she thought, with intense bitterness. "He will tell
me I was not worthy of his friendship, much less of his love--that I deceived him;" and the
thought of Arden, after all, perhaps, had the most weight in restraining her from the fatal
step. For then, to her perverted sense of duty, this marriage began to seem like an heroic
self-sacrifice.

She had seen little of Arden since her return. He was kind and respectful as ever, outwardly,
but she saw in his deep blue eyes that she was the divinity that he still worshipped with unfaltering
devotion, and as she once smiled at the idea of being set up as an idol in his heart, she now
began unspeakably to dread falling from her pedestal.

One dreary day, the last of March, when sleet and rain were pouring steadily down, and Laura
was sick in her bed, and Zell moping with her hacking cough over the fire, with Hannibal in
the kitchen, Mrs. Allen turned suddenly to Edith, and said:

"On some such day we shall all be turned into the street. You could save us, you could save
yourself, by taking a kind, rich man for your lawful husband; but you won't."

Then Satan, who is always on hand when we are weakest, quoted Scripture to Edith as he had
done once before. The words flashed into her mind, "He saved others, himself he cannot save."

In a wild moment of mingled enthusiasm and desperation, she sprang up before her mother, and said:

"If I can't pay the interest of the mortgage--if I can't take care of you all by some kind
of work, I will marry him. But if you have a spark of love for me, save, economize, try to
think of some other way."

Mrs. Allen smiled triumphantly, and tried in her gratitude to embrace her daughter, saying:
"A kind husband will soon lift all burdens off your shoulders." The burden on the heart Mrs.
Allen did not understand, but Edith fled from her to her own room.

In a little while her excitement and enthusiasm died away, and life began to look gaunt and
bare. Even her Saviour's face seemed hidden, and she only saw an ugly spectre in the future--Simon
Crowl.

In vain she repeated to herself, "He sacrificed Himself for others--so will I." The nature
that He had given her revolted at it all, and though she could not understand it, she began
to find a jarring discord between herself and all things.

Mrs. Allen told Mr. Crowl of her success, and he looked upon things as settled. He came to
the house quite often, but did not stay long or assume any familiarity with Edith. He was a
wary old spider; and under Mrs. Allen's hints, behaved and looked very respectably. He certainly
did the best he could not to appear hideous to Edith, and though she was very cold, she compelled
herself to treat him civilly.

Perhaps many might have considered Edith's chance a very good one; but with an almost desperate
energy she set her mind at work to find some other way out of her painful straits. Everything,
however, seemed against her. Mr. McTrump was sick with inflammatory rheumatism. Mrs. Groody
was away, and would not be back till the last of May. On account of Arden she could not speak
to Mrs. Lacey. She tried in vain to get work, but at that season there was nothing in Pushton
which she could do. Farmers were beginning to get out a little on their wet lands, and various
out-of-door activities to revive after the winter stagnation. Moreover, money was very scarce
at that season of the year. She at last turned to the garden as her only resource. She realized
that she had scarcely money enough to carry them through May. Could she get returns from her
garden in time? Could it be made to yield enough to support them? With an almost desperate
energy she worked in it whenever the weather permitted through April, and kept Hannibal at
it also. Indeed, she had little mercy on the old man, and he wondered at her. One day he ventured:

"Miss Edie, you jes done kill us both," but his wonder increased as she muttered:

"Perhaps it would be the best thing for us both," Then, seeing his panic-stricken face, she
added more kindly, "Hannibal, our money is getting low, and the garden is our only chance."

After that he worked patiently without a word and without a thought of sparing himself.

Edith insisted on the closest economy in the house, though she was too sensible to stint herself
in food in view of her constant toil. But one day she detected Mrs. Allen, with her small cunning
and her determination to carry her point, practicing a little wastefulness. Edith turned on
her with such fierceness that she never dared to repeat the act. Indeed, Edith was becoming
very much what she was before Zell ran away, only in addition there was something akin, at
times, to Zell's own hardness and recklessness, and one day she said to Edith:

"What is the matter? You are becoming like me."

Edith fled to her room, and sobbed and cried and tried to pray till her strength was gone.
The sweet trust and peace she had once enjoyed seemed like a past dream. She was learning by
bitter experience that it can never be right to do wrong; and that a first false step, like
a false premise, leads to sad conclusions.

She had insisted that her mother should not speak of the matter till it became absolutely necessary,
therefore Laura, Zell, and none of her friends could understand her.

Arden was the most puzzled and pained of all, for she shrank from him with increasing dread.
He was now back at his farm work, though he said to Edith one day despondently that he had
no heart to work, for the mortgage on their place would probably be foreclosed in the fall.
She longed to tell him how she was situated, but she saw he was unable to help her, and she
dreaded to see the scorn come into his trusting, loving eyes; she could not endure his absolute
confidence in her, and in his presence her heart ached as if it would break, so she shunned
him till he grew very unhappy, and sighed:

"There's something wrong. She finds I am not congenial. I shall lose her friendship," and his
aching heart also admitted, as never before, how dear it was to him.

Nature was awakening with the rapture of another spring; birds were coming back to old haunts
with ecstatic songs; flowers budding into their brief but exquisite life, and the trees aglow
with fragrant prophecies of fruit; but a winter of fear and doubt was chilling these two hearts
into something far worse than nature's seeming death.

CHAPTER XXXIV

SAVED

Edith's efforts still to help Zell to better things were very pathetic, considering how unhappy
and tempted she was herself. She did try, even when her own heart was breaking, to bring peace
and hope to the poor creature, but she was taught how vain her efforts were, in her present
mood, by Zell's saying, sharply:

"Physician, heal thyself."

Though Zell did not understand Edith, she saw that she was almost as unhappy as herself, and
she had lost hope in everybody and everything. Though she had not admitted it, Edith's words
and kindness at first had excited her wonder, and, perhaps, a faint glimmer of hope; but, as
she saw her sister's face cloud with care, and darken with pain and fear, she said, bitterly:

"Why did she talk with me so? It was all a delusion. What is God doing for her any more than
for me?"

But, in order to give Zell occupation, and something to think about besides herself, Edith
had induced her to take charge of the flowers in the garden.

"They won't grow for me," Zell had said at first. "They will wither when I look at them, and
white blossoms will turn black as I bend over them."

"Nonsense!" said Edith, with irritation; "won't you do anything to help me?"

"Oh, certainly," wearily answered Zell. "I will do the work just as you tell me. If they do
die, it don't matter. We can eat or sell them." So Zell began to take care of the flowers,
doing the work in a stealthy manner, and hiding when any one came.

The month of May was unusually warm, and Edith was glad, for it would hasten things forward.
That upon which she now bent almost agonized effort and thought was the possibility of paying
the interest on the mortgage by the middle of June, when it was due. All hope concentrated
on her strawberries, as they would be the first crop worth mentioning that she could depend
on from her place. She gave the plants the most careful attention. Not a weed was suffered
to grow, and between the rows she placed carefully, with her own hands, leaves she raked up
in the orchard, so that the ground might be kept moist and the fruit clean. Almost every hour
of the day her eyes sought the strawberry- bed, as the source of her hope. If that failed her,
no bleeding human sacrifice in all the cruel past could surpass in agony her fate.

The vines began to blossom with great promise, and at first she almost counted them in her
eager expectation. Then the long rows looked like little banks of snow, and she exulted over
the prospect. Laura was once about to pick one of the blossoms, but she stopped her almost
fiercely. She would get up in the night, and stand gazing at the lines of white, as she could
trace them in the darkness across the garden. So the days passed on till the last of May, and
the blossoms grew scattering, but there were multitudes of little green berries, from the size
of a pea to that of her thimble, and some of them began to have a white look. She so minutely
watched them develop that she could have almost defined the progress day by day. Once Zell
looked at her wonderingly, and said:

"Edith, you are crazy over that strawberry-bed. I believe you worship it."

For a time Edith's hopes daily rose higher as the vines gave finer promise, but during the
last week of May a new and terrible source of danger revealed itself, a danger that she knew
not how to cope with-- drought.

It had not rained since the middle of May. She saw that many of her young and tender vegetables
were wilting, but the strawberries, mulched with leaves, did not appear to mind it at first.
Still she knew they would suffer soon, unless there was rain. Most anxiously she watched the
skies. Their serenity mocked her when she was so clouded with care. Wild storms would be better
than these balmy, sunny days.

The first of June came, the second, third, and fourth, and here and there a berry was turning
red, but the vines were beginning to wilt. The suspense became so great she could hardly endure
it. Her faith in God began to waver. Every breath almost was a prayer for rain, but the sunny
days passed like mocking smiles.

"Is there a God?" she queried desperately. "Can I have been deceived in all my past happy experience?"
She shuddered at the answer that the tempter suggested, and yet, like a drowning man, she still
clung to her faith.

During the long evening, she and Hannibal sought to save the bed by carrying water from the
well, but they could do so little, it only seemed to show them how utterly dependent they were
on the natural rain from heaven; but the skies seemed laughing at her pain and fear. Moreover,
she noticed that those they watered appeared injured rather than helped, as is ever the case
where it is insufficiently done, and she saw that she must helplessly wait.

Arden Lacey had been away for a week, and, returning in the dusk of the evening, saw her at
work watering, before she had come to this conclusion. His heart was hungry, even for the sight
of her, and he longed for her to let him stop for a little chat as of old. So he said, timidly:

"Good-evening, Miss Allen, haven't you a word to welcome me back with?"

"Oh!" cried Edith, not heeding his salutation, "why don't it rain! I shall lose all my strawberries."

His voice jarred upon her heart, now too full, and she ran into the house to hide her feelings,
and left him. Even the thought of him now, in her morbid state, began to pierce her like a sword.

"She thinks more of her paltry strawberry-bed than of me," muttered Arden, and he stalked angrily
homeward. "What is the matter with Miss Allen?" he asked his mother abruptly. "I don't understand
her."

"Nor I either," said Mrs. Lacey with a sigh.

The next morning was very warm, and Edith saw that the day would be hotter than any that preceded.
A dry wind sprang up and it seemed worse than the sun. The vines began to wither early after
the coolness of the night, and those she had watered suffered the most, and seemed to say to
her mockingly:

"You can't do anything."

"Oh, heaven!" cried Edith, almost in despair, "there is a black hand pushing me down."

In an excited, feverish manner she roamed restlessly around and could settle down to nothing.
She scanned the horizon for a cloud, as the shipwrecked might for a sail.

"Edie, what is the matter?" said Laura, putting her arms about her sister.

"It won't rain," said Edith, bursting into tears. "My home, my happiness, everything depends
on rain, and look at these skies."

"But won't He send it?" asked Laura, gently.

"Why don't He, then?" said Edith, almost in irritation. Then, in a sudden passion of grief,
she hid her face in her sister's lap, and sobbed, "Oh, Laura, Laura, I feel I am losing my
faith in Him. Why does He treat me so?"

Here Laura's face grew troubled and fearful also. Her faith in Christ was so blended with her
faith in Edith that she could not separate them in a moment. "I don't understand it, Edie,"
she faltered. "He seems to have taken care of me, and has been very kind since that-- that
night But I don't understand your feeling so."

"Oh, oh, oh!" sobbed Edith, "I don't know what to think--what to believe; and I fear I shall
hurt your faith," and she shut herself up in her room, and looked despairingly out to where
the vines were drooping in the fierce heat.

"If they don't get help to-day, my hopes will wither like their leaves," she said, with pallid
lips. As the sun declined in the west, she went out and stood beside them, as one might by
a dying friend. Her fresh young face seemed almost growing aged and wrinkled under the ordeal.
She had prayed that afternoon, as never before in her life, for help, and now, with a despairing
gesture upward, she said:

"Look at that brazen sky!"

But the noise of the opening gate caused her to look thither, and there was Arden entering,
with a great barrel on wheels, which was drawn by a horse. His heart, so weak toward her, had
relented during the day. "I vowed to serve her, and I will," he thought. "I will be her slave,
if she will permit."

Edith did not understand at first, and he came toward her so humbly, as if to ask a great favor,
that it would have been comic, had not his sincerity made it pathetic.

"Miss Allen," he said, "I saw you trying to water your berries. Perhaps I can do it better,
as I have here the means of working on a larger scale."

Edith seized his hand and said, with tears: "You are like an angel of light; how can I thank
you enough?"

Her manner puzzled him to-night quite as much as on the previous occasion. "Why does she act
as if her life depended on these few berries?" he vainly asked himself. "They can't be so poor
as to be in utter want. I wish she would speak frankly to me."

In her case, as in thousands of others, it would have been so much better if she had.

Then Edith said, a little dubiously, "I hurt the vines when I tried to water them."

"I know enough about gardening to understand that," said Arden, with a smile. "If the ground
is not thoroughly soaked it does hurt them. But see," and he poured the water around the vines
till the dry leaves swam in it. "That will last two days, and then I will water these again.
I can go over half the bed thoroughly one night, and the other half the next night; and so
we will keep them along till rain comes."

She looked at him as if he were a messenger come to release her from a dungeon, and murmured,
in a low, sweet voice:

"Mr. Lacey, you are as kind as a brother to me."

A warm flush of pleasure mantled his face and neck, and he turned away to hide his feelings,
but said:

"Miss Edith, this is nothing to what I would do for you."

She had it on her lips to tell him how she was situated, but he hastened away to fill his barrel
at a neighboring pond. She watched him go to and fro in his rough, working garb, and he seemed
to her the very flower of chivalry.

Her eyes grew lustrous with admiration, gratitude, hope, and--yes, love, for before the June
twilight deepened into night it was revealed in the depths of her heart that she loved Arden
Lacey, and that was the reason that she had kept away from him since she had made the hateful
promise. She had thought it only friendship, now she knew that it was love, and that his scorn
and anger would be the bitterest ingredient of all in her self-immolation.

For two long hours he went to and fro unweariedly, and then startled her by saying in the distance
on his way home, "I will come again to- morrow evening," and was gone. He was afraid of himself,
lest in his strong feeling he might break his implied promise not even to suggest his love,
when she came to thank him, and so, in self-distrustfulness, he was beginning to shun her also.

An unspeakable burden of fear was lifted from her heart, and hope, sweet, warm, and rosy, kept
her eyes waking, but rested her more than sleep. In the morning she saw that the watering had
greatly revived one half of the bed, and that all through the hot day they did not wilt, while
the unwatered part looked very sick.

Old Crowl also had seen the proceeding in the June twilight, and did not like it. "I must put
a spoke in his wheel," he said. So the next afternoon he met Arden in the village, and blustered
up to him, saying:

"Look here, young Lacey, what were you doing at the Allens' last night?"

"None of your business."

"Yes, it is my business, too, as you may find out to your cost. I am engaged to marry Miss
Edith Allen, and guess it's my business who's hanging around there. I warn you to keep away."
Mr. Crowl had put the case truly, and yet with characteristic cunning. He was positively engaged
to Edith, though she was only conditionally engaged to him.

"It's an accursed lie," thundered Arden, livid with rage, "and I warn you to leave--you make
me dangerous."

"Oh, ho; touches you close, does it? I am sorry for you, but it's true, nevertheless."

Arden looked as if he would rend him, but by a great effort he controlled himself, and in a
low, meaning voice said:

"If you have lied to me this afternoon, woe be unto you," and he turned on his heel and walked
straight to Edith, where she stood at work among her grapevines, breaking off some of the too
thickly budding branches. He was beside her before she heard him, and the moment she looked
into his white, stern face, she saw that something had happened.

"Miss Allen," he said, abruptly, "I heard a report about you this afternoon. I did not believe
it; I could not; but it came so direct, that I give you a chance to refute it. Your word will
be sufficient for me. It would be against all the world. Is there anything between you and
Simon Crowl?"

Her confusion was painful, and for a moment she could not speak, but stood trembling before him.

In his passion, he seized her roughly by the arm and said, hoarsely, "In a word, yes or no?"

His manner offended her proud spirit, and she looked him angrily in the face and said, haughtily;

"Yes."

He recoiled from her as if he had been stung.

Her anger died away in a moment, and she leaned against the grape- trellis for support.

"Do you love him?" he faltered, his bronzed cheek blanching.

"No," she gasped.

The blood rushed furiously into his face, and he took an angry stride toward her. She cowered
before him, but almost wished that he would strike her dead. In a voice hoarse with rage, he said:

"This, then, is the end of our friendship. This is the best that your religion has taught you.
If not your pitiful faith, then has not your woman's nature told you that neither priest nor
book can marry you to that coarse lump of earth?" and he turned on his heel and strode away.

His mother was frightened as she saw his face. "What has happened?" she said, starting up.
He stared at her almost stupidly for a moment. Then he said, in a stony voice:

"The worst that ever can happen to me in this or any world. If the lightning had burned me
to a cinder, I could not be more utterly bereft of all that tends to make a good man. Edith
Allen has sold herself to old Crowl. Some priest is going through a farce they will call a
marriage, and all the good people will say, 'How well she has done!' What a miserable delusion
this religious business is! You had better give it up, mother, as I do, here and now."

"Hush, my son," said Mrs. Lacey, solemnly. "You have only seen Edith Allen. I have seen Jesus
Christ.

"There is some mystery about this," she added, after a moment's painful thought. "I will go
and see her at once."

He seized her hand, saying:

"Have I not been a good son to you?"

"Yes, Arden."

"Then by all I have ever been to you, and as you wish my love to continue, go not near her again."

"But, Arden--"

"Promise me," he said, sternly.

"Well," said the poor woman, with a deep sigh, "not without your permission."

From that time forth, Arden seemed as if made of stone.

After he was gone Edith walked with uncertain steps to the little arbor, and sat down as if
stunned. She lost all idea of time. After it was dark, Hannibal called her in, and made her
take a cup of tea. She then went mechanically to her room, but not to sleep. Arden's dreadful
words kept repeating themselves over and over again.

"O God!" she exclaimed, in the darkness, "whither am I drifting? Must I be driven to this awful
fate in order to provide for those dependent upon me? Cannot bountiful Nature feed us? Wilt
Thou not, in mercy, send one drop of rain? O Jesus, where is Thy mercy?"

The next morning the skies were still cloudless, and she scowled darkly at the sunny dawn.
Then, in sudden alternation of mood, she stretched her bare, white arms toward the little farmhouse,
and sighed, in tones of tremulous pathos:

"Oh, Arden, Arden! I would rather die at your feet than live in a palace with him."

She sent down word that she was ill, and that she would not come down. Laura, Mrs. Allen, and
even Zell, came to her, but she kissed them wearily, and sent them away. She saw that there
was deep anxiety on all their faces. Pretty soon Hannibal came up with a cup of coffee.

"You must drink it, Miss Edie," he said, "'cause we'se all a-leanin' on you."

Well-meaning words, but tending unconsciously to confirm her desperate purpose to sacrifice
herself for them.

She lay with her face buried in the pillow all day. She knew that their money was almost gone,
that provisions were scanty in the house, and to her morbid mind bags of gold were piled up
before her, and Simon Crowl, as an ugly spectre, was beckoning her toward them.

As she lay in a dull lethargy of pain in the afternoon, a heavy jar of thunder aroused her.
She sprang up instantly, and ran out bare-headed to the little rise of ground behind the house,
and there, in the west, was a great black cloud. The darker and nearer it grew, the more her
face brightened. It was a strange thing to see that fair young girl looking toward the threatening
storm with eager, glad expectancy, as if it were her lover. The heavy and continued roll of
the thunder, like the approaching roar of battle, was sweeter to her than love's whispers.
She saw with dilating eyes the trees on the distant mountain's brow toss and writhe in the
tempest; she heard the fall of rain-drops on the foliage of the mountain's side as if they
were the feet of an army coming to her rescue. A few large ones, mingled with hail, fell around
her like scattering shots, and she put out her hands to catch them. The fierce gusts caught
up her loosened hair and it streamed away behind her. There was a blinding flash, and the branches
of a tall locust near came quivering down--she only smiled.

But dismay and trembling fear overwhelmed her as the shower passed on to the north. She could
see it raining hard a mile away, but the drops ceased to fall around her. The deep reverberations
rolled away in the distance, and in the west there was a long line of light. As the twilight
deepened, the whole storm was below the horizon, only sending up angry flashes as it thundered
on to parts unknown. With clasped hands and despairing eyes, Edith gazed after it, as the wrecked
floating on a raft might watch a ship sail away, and leave them to perish on the wide ocean.

She walked slowly down to the little arbor, and leaned wearily back on the rustic seat. She
saw night come on in breathless peace. Not a leaf stirred. She saw the moon rise over the eastern
hills, as brightly and serenely as if its rays would not fall on one sad face.

Hannibal called, but she did not answer, Then he came out to her, and put the cup of tea to
her lips, and made her drink it. She obeyed mechanically.

"Poor chile, poor chile," he murmured, "I wish ole Hannibal could die for you."

She lifted her face to him with such an expression that he hastened away to hide his tears.
But she sat still, as if in a dream, and yet she felt that the crisis had come, and that before
she left that place she must come to some decision. Reason would be dethroned if she lived
much longer in such suspense and irresolution. And yet she sat still in a dreamy stupor, the
reaction of her strong excitement. It seemed, in a certain sense, peaceful and painless, and
she did not wish to goad herself out of it.

"It may be like the last sleep before execution," she thought, "therefore make the most of
it," and her thoughts wandered at will.

A late robin came flying home to the arbor where the nest was, and having twittered out a little
vesper-song, put its head under its wing, near his mate, which sat brooding in the nest over
some little eggs, and the thought stole into her heart, "Will God take care of them and not
me?" and she watched the peaceful sleep of the family over her head as if it were an emblem
of faith.

Then a sudden breeze swept a spray of roses against her face, and their delicate perfume was
like the "still small voice" of love, and the thought passed dreamily across Edith's mind,
"Will God do so much for that little cluster of roses and yet do nothing for me?"

How near the Father was to His child! In this calm that followed her long passionate struggle,
His mighty but gentle Spirit could make itself felt, and it stole into the poor girl's bruised
heart with heavenly suggestion and healing power. The happy days when she followed Jesus and
sat daily at His feet were recalled. Her sin was shown to her, not in anger, but in the loving
reproachfulness of the Saviour's look upon faithless Peter, and a voice seemed to ask in her
soul, "How could you turn away your trust from Him to anything else? How could you think it
right to do so great a wrong? How could you so trample upon the womanly nature that He gave
you as to think of marrying where neither love nor God would sanction?"

Jesus seemed to stand before her, and point up to the robins, saying, "I feed them. I fed the
five thousand. I feed the world. I can feed you and yours. Trust me. Do right. In trying to
save yourself you will destroy yourself."

With a divine impulse, she threw herself on the floor of the arbor, and cried:

"Jesus, I cast myself at Thy feet. I throw myself on Thy mercy. When I look the world around,
away from Thee, I see only fear and torment. If I die, I will perish at Thy feet."

Was it the moonlight only that made the night luminous? No, for the glory of the Lord shone
around, and the peace that "passeth all understanding" came flowing into her soul like a shining
river. The ugly phantoms that had haunted her vanished. The "black hand that seemed pushing
her down," became her Father's hand, shielding and sustaining.

She rose as calm and serene as the summer evening and went straight to Mrs. Allen's room and
said: "Mother, I will never marry Simon Crowl."

Her mother began to cry, and say piteously:

"Then we shall all be turned into the street."

"What the future will be I can't tell," said Edith, gently but firmly. "I will work for you,
I will beg for you, I will starve with you, but I will never marry Simon Crowl, nor any other
man that I do not love." And pressing a kiss on her mother's face, she went to her room, and
soon was lost in the first refreshing sleep that she had had for a long time.

She was wakened toward morning by the sound of rain, and, starting up, heard its steady, copious
downfall. In a sudden ecstasy of gratitude she sprang up, opened the blinds and looked out.
The moon had gone down, and through the darkness the rain was falling heavily; she felt it
upon her forehead, her bare neck and arms, and it seemed to her Heaven's own baptism into a
new and stronger faith and a happier life.

CHAPTER XXXV

CLOSING SCENES

The clouds were clearing away when Edith came down late the next morning, and all saw that
the clouds had passed from her brow.

"Bress de Lord, Miss Edie, you'se yoursef again!" said Hannibal, joyfully. "I neber see a shower
do such a heap ob good afore."

"No," said Edith, sadly; "I was myself. I lost my Divine Friend and Helper, and I then became
myself--poor, weak, faulty Edith Allen. But, thanks to His mercy, I have found Him again, and
so hope to be the better self that He helped me to be before."

Zell looked at her with a sudden wonder, and went out and stayed among her flowers all day.

Laura came and put her arms around her neck, and said,

"Oh, Edie, I am so glad! What you said set me to fearing and doubting; but I am sure we can
trust Him."

Mrs. Allen sighed drearily, and said, "I don't understand it at all."

But old Hannibal slapped his hands in true Methodist style, exclaiming, "Dat's it! Trow away
de ole heart! Get a new one! Bress de Lord!"

Edith went out into the garden, and saw that there were a great many berries ripe; then she
hastened to the hotel, and said:

"Oh, Mrs. Groody, for Heaven's sake, won't you help me sell my strawberries up here?"

"Yes, my dear," was the hearty response; "both for your sake and the strawberries, too. We
get them from the city, and would much rather have fresh country ones."

Edith returned with her heart thrilling with hope, and set to work picking as if every berry
was a ruby, and in a few hours she had six quarts of fragrant fruit. Malcom had lent her little
baskets, and Hannibal took them up to the hotel, for Arden would not even look toward the little
cottage any more. The old servant came back grinning with delight, and gave Edith a dollar
and a half.

The next day ten quarts brought two dollars and a half. Then they began to ripen rapidly, the
rain having greatly improved them, and Edith, with considerable help from the others, picked
twenty, thirty, and fifty quarts a day. She employed a stout boy from the village, to help
her, and, through him, she soon had quite a village trade also. He had a percentage on the
sales, and, therefore, was very sharp in disposing of them.

How Edith gloated over her money! how, with more than miserly eyes, she counted it over every
night, and pressed it to her lips!

In the complete absorption of the past few weeks Edith had not noticed the change going on
in Zell. The poor creature was surprised and greatly pleased that the flowers grew so well
for her. Every opening blossom was a new revelation, and their sweet perfume stole into her
wounded heart like balm. The blue violets seemed like children's eyes peeping timidly at her;
and the pansies looked so bright and saucy that she caught herself smiling back at them. The
little black and brown seeds she planted came up so promptly that it seemed as if they wanted
to see her as much as she did them.

"Isn't it queer," she said one day to herself, "that such pretty things can come out of such
ugly little things." Nothing in nature seemed to turn away from her, any more than would nature's
God. The dumb life around began to speak to her in many and varied voices, and she who fled
from companionship with her own kind would sit and chirp and talk to the birds, as if they
understood her. And they did seem to grow strangely familiar, and would almost eat crumbs out
of her hand.

One day in June she said to Hannibal, who was working near, "Isn't it strange the flowers grow
so well for me?"

"Why shouldn't dey grow for you, Miss Zell?" asked he, straightening his old back up.

"Good, innocent Hannibal, how indeed should you know anything about it?"

"Yes, I does know all 'bout it," said he, earnestly, and he came to her where she stood by
a rosebush. "Does you see dis white rose?"

"Yes," said Zell, "it opened this morning. I've been watching it."

Poor Hannibal could not read print, but he seemed to understand this exquisite passage in nature's
open book, for he put his black finger on the rose (which made it look whiter than before),
and commenced expounding it as a preacher might his text. "Now look at it sharp, Miss Zell,
'cause it'll show you I does know all 'bout it. It's white, isn't it?"

"Yes," said Zell, eagerly, for Hannibal held the attention of his audience.

"Dat means pure, doesn't it?" continued he.

"Yes," said Zell, looking sadly down.

"And it's sweet, isn't it? Now dat means lub."

And Zell looked hopefully up.

"And now, dear chile," said he, giving her a little impressive nudge, "see whar de white rose
come from--right up out of de brack, ugly ground."

Having concluded his argument and made his point, the simple orator began his application,
and Zell was leaning toward him in her interest.

"De good Lord, he make it grow to show what He can do for us. Miss Zell," he said, in an awed
whisper, "my ole heart was as brack as dat ground, but de blessed Jesus turn it as white as
dis rose. Miss Edie, Lor' bless her, telled me 'bout Him, and I'se found it all true. Now,
doesn't I know 'bout it? I knows dat de good Jesus can turn de brackest heart in de world jes
like dis rose, make it white and pure, and fill it up wid de sweetness of lub. I knows all
'bout it."

He spoke with the power of absolute certainty and strong feeling, therefore his hearer was
deeply moved.

"Hannibal," she said, coming close to him, and putting her hand on his shoulder, "do you think
Jesus could turn my heart white?"

"Sartin, Miss Zell," answered he, stoutly. "Jes as easy as He make dis white rose grow."

"Would you mind asking Him? It seems to me I would rather pray out here among the flowers,"
she said, in low, tremulous tones.

So Hannibal concluded his simple, but most effective, service by kneeling down by his pulpit,
the rosebush, and praying:

"Bressed Jesus, guv dis dear chile a new heart, 'cause she wants it, and you wants her to hab
it. Make it pure and full of lub. You can do it, dear Jesus. You knows you can. Now, jes please
do it. Amen."

Zell's responsive "Amen" was like a note from an AEolian harp.

"Hannibal," said she, looking wistfully at him, "I think I feel better. I think I feel it growing
white."

"Now jes look here, Miss Zell," said he, giving her a bit of pastoral counsel before going
back to his work, "don't you keep lookin' at your heart, and seein' how it feels, or you'll
get discouraged. See dis rose agin? It don't look at itself. It jes looks up at de sun. So
you look straight at Jesus, and your heart grow whiter ebery day."

And Hannibal and the flower did gradually lead poor Zell to Him who "taketh away the sins of
the world," and He said to her as to one of old, "Thy faith hath saved thee; go in peace."

On the evening of the 14th of June, Edith had more than enough to pay the interest due on the
15th, and she was most anxious to have it settled. She was standing at the gate waiting for
Hannibal to join her as escort, when she saw Arden Lacey coming toward her. He had not looked
at her since that dreadful afternoon, and was now about to pass her without notice, though
from his manner she saw he was conscious of her presence. He looked so worn and changed that
her heart yearned toward him. A sudden thought occurred to her, and she said:

"Mr. Lacey."

He kept right on, and paid no heed to her.

There was a mingling of indignation and pathos in her voice when she spoke again.

"I appeal to you as a woman, and no matter what I am, if you are a true man, you will listen."

There was that in her tone and manner that reminded him of the dark rainy night when they first
met.

He turned instantly, but he approached her with a cold, silent bow.

"I must go to the village to-night. I wish your protection," she said, in a voice she tried
vainly to render steady.

He again bowed silently, and they walked to the village together without a word. Hannibal came
out in time to see them disappear down the road, one on one side of it, and one on the other.

"Well now, dey's both quar," he said, scratching his white head with perplexity, "but one ting
is mighty sartin, I'se glad my ole jints is saved dat tramp."

Edith stopped at the door of Mr. Crowl's office, and Arden, for the first time, spoke hastily:

"I can't go in there."

"I hope you are not afraid," said Edith, in a tone that made him step forward quick enough.

Mr. Crowl looked as if he could not believe his eyes, but Edith gave him no time to collect
his wits, but by the following little speech quite overwhelmed both him and Arden, though with
different emotions.

"There, sir, is the interest due on the mortgage. There is a slight explanation due you and
also this gentleman here, who was my friend. There are four persons in our family dependent
on me for support and shelter. We were all so poor and helpless that it seemed impossible to
maintain ourselves in independence. You make a proposition through my mother, never to me,
that might be called generous if it had not been coupled with certain threats of prompt foreclosure
if not accepted. In an hour of weakness and for the sake of the others, I said to my mother,
never to you, that if I could not pay the interest and could not support the family, I would
marry you. But I did very wrong, and I became so unhappy and desperate in view of this partial
promise, that I thought I should lose my reason. But in the hour of my greatest darkness, when
I saw no way out of our difficulties, I was led to see how wrongly I had acted, and to resolve
that under no possible circumstances would I marry you, nor any man to whom I could not give
a true wife's love. Since that time I have been able honestly to earn the money there; and
in a few days more I will pay you the fifty dollars that my mother borrowed of you. So please
give me my receipt."

"And remember henceforth," said Arden, sternly, "that this lady has a protector."

Simon was sharp enough to see that he was beaten, so he signed the receipt and gave it to Edith
without a word. They left his office and started homeward. When out of the village Arden said
timidly:

"Can you forgive me, Miss Edith?"

"Can you forgive me?" answered she, even more humbly.

They stopped in the road and grasped each other's hands with a warmth more expressive than
all words. Then they went on silently again. At the gate Edith said timidly:

"Won't you come in?"

"I dare not, Miss Allen," said Arden, gravely, and with a dash of bitterness in his voice "I
am a man of honor with all my faults, and I would keep the promise I made you in the letter
I wrote one year ago. I must see very little of you," he continued, in a very heartsick tone,
"but let me serve you just the same."

Edith's face seemed to possess more than human loveliness as it grew tender and gentle in the
radiance of the full moon, and he looked at it with the hunger of a famished heart.

"But you made the promise to me, did you not?" she asked in a low tone.

"Certainly," said Arden.

"Then it seems to me that I have the right to absolve you from the promise," she continued
in a still lower tone, and a face like a damask-rose in moonlight.

"Miss Allen--Edith--" said Arden, "oh, for Heaven's sake, be kind. Don't trifle with me."

Edith had restrained her feelings so long that she was ready to either laugh or cry, so with
a peal of laughter, that rang out like a chime of silver bells, she said:

"Like the fat abbot in the story, I give you full absolution and plenary indulgence."

He seized her hand and carried it to his lips: "Edith," he pleaded, in a low, tremulous voice,
"will you let me be your slave?"

"Not a bit of it," said she, sturdily. She added, looking shyly up at him, "What should I do
with a slave?"

Arden was about to kneel at her feet, but she said:

"Nonsense! If you must get on your knees, come and kneel to my strawberry-bed--you ought to
thank that, I can tell you." And so the matter-of-fact girl, who could not abide sentiment,
got through a scene that she greatly dreaded.

They could see the berries reddening among the green leaves, and the night wind blowing across
them was like a gale from Araby the Blest.

"Were it not for this strawberry-bed you would not have obtained absolution to-night. But,
Arden," she added, seriously, "here is your way out of trouble, as well as mine. We are near
good markets. Give up your poor, slipshod farming (I'm plain, you see) and raise fruit. I will
supply you with vines. We will go into partnership. You show what a man can do, and I will
show what a girl can do."

He took her hand and looked at her so fondly that she hid her face on his shoulder. He stroked
her head and said, in a half-mirthful tone:

"Ah, Edie, Edie, woman once got man out of a garden, but you, I perceive, are destined to lead
me into one; and any garden where you are will be Eden to me."

She looked up, with her face suddenly becoming grave and wistful, and said:

"Arden, God will walk in my garden in the cool of the day. You won't hide from Him, will you?"

"No," he answered, earnestly. "I now feel sure that, through my faith in you, I shall learn
to have faith in Him."

CHAPTER XXXVI

LAST WORDS

Edith did sustain the family on the products of her little place. And, more than that, the
yield from her vines and orchard was so abundant that she aided Arden to meet the interest
of the mortgage on the Lacey place, so that Mr. Crowl could not foreclose that autumn, as he
intended. She so woke her dreamy lover up that he soon became a keen, masterful man of business,
and, at her suggestion, at once commenced the culture of small fruits, she giving him a good
start from her own place.

Rose took the situation of nurse with Judge Clifford's married daughter, having the care of
two little children. She thus secured a pleasant, sheltered home, where she was treated with
great kindness. Instead of running in debt, as in New York, she was able to save the greater
part of her wages, and in two years had enough ahead to take time to learn the dressmakers'
trade thoroughly, for which she had a taste. But a sensible young mechanic, who had long been
attentive, at last persuaded her to make him a happy home.

Mrs. Lacey's prayers were effectual in the case of her husband, for, to the astonishment of
the whole neighborhood, he reformed. Laura remained a pale home-blossom, sheltered by Edith's love.

With the blossoms she loved, Zell faded away in the autumn, but her death was like that of
the flowers, in the full hope of the glad springtime of a new life. As her eyes closed and
she breathed her last sigh out on Edith's bosom, old Hannibal sobbed--

"She's--a white rose--now--sure 'nuff."

Arden and Edith were married the following year, on the 14th of June, the anniversary of their
engagement. Edith greatly shocked Mrs. Allen by having the ceremony performed in the garden.

"Why not?" she said. "God once married a couple there."

Mrs. Groody, Mr. and Mrs. McTrump, Mrs. Ranger, Mrs. Hart and her daughters, and quite a number
of other friends were present.

Hannibal stood by the white rosebush, that was again in bloom, and tears of joy, mingling with
those of sorrow, bedewed the sweet flowers.

And Malcom stood up, after the ceremony, and said, with a certain dignity that for a moment
hushed and impressed all present:

"Tho' I'm a little mon, I sometimes ha' great tho'ts, an' I have learned to ken fra my gudewife
there, an' this sweet blossom o' the Lord's, that woman can bring a' the wourld to God if she
will. That's what she can do."

THE END