"Oh! there is the beautiful Duchess de Saint-Prix; all the world is here to-night--I don't
speak of ourselves."

"It is a regular opera night--what a festive scene!"

"Well, after all, people do well to amuse themselves, perhaps it will not be for long."

"Why so?"

"Suppose the cholera were to come to Paris?"

"Oh! nonsense!"

"Do you believe in the cholera?"

"To be sure I do! He's coming from the North, with his walking-stick under his arm."

"The devil take him on the road! don't let us see his green visage here."

"They say he's at London."

"A pleasant journey to him."

"Come, let us talk of something else; it may be a weakness, if you please, but I call this
a dull subject."

"I believe you."

"Oh! gentlemen--I am not mistaken--no--it is she!"

"Who, then?"

"Mdlle. de Cardoville! She is coming into the stage-box with Morinval and his wife. It is a
complete resuscitation: this morning on the Champs-Elysees; in the evening here."

"Faith, you are right! It is Mdlle. de Cardoville."

"Good heaven! how lovely she is!"

"Lend me your eyeglass."

"Well, what do you think of her?"

"Exquisite--dazzling."

"And in addition to her beauty, an inexhaustible flow of wit, three hundred thousand francs
a year, high birth, eighteen years of age, and--free as air."

"Yes, that is to say, that, provided it pleased her, I might be to morrow--or even to-day--the
happiest of men."

"It is enough to turn one's brain."

"I am told that her mansion, Rue d'Anjou, is like an enchanted palace; a great deal is said
about a bath-room and bedroom, worthy of the Arabian Nights."

"And free as air--I come back to that."

"Ah! if I were in her place!"

"My levity would be quite shocking."

"Oh! gentlemen, what a happy man will he be who is loved first!"

"You think, then, that she will have many lovers?"

"Being as free as air--"

"All the boxes are full, except the stage-box opposite to that in which Mdlle. de Cardoville
is seated. Happy the occupiers of that box!"

"Did you see the English ambassador's lady in the dress circle?"

"And the Princess d'Alvimar--what an enormous bouquet!"

"I should like to know the name--of that nosegay."

"Oh!--it's Germigny."

"How flattering for the lions and tigers, to attract so fashionable an audience."

"Do you notice, gentlemen, how all the women are eye-glassing Mdlle. de Cardoville?"

"She makes a sensation."

"She is right to show herself; they gave her out as mad."

"Oh! gentlemen, what a capital phiz!"

"Where--where?"

"There--in the omnibus-box beneath Mdlle. de Cardoville's."

"It's a Nuremburg nutcracker."

"An ourang-outang!"

"Did you ever see such round, staring eyes?"

"And the nose!"

"And the forehead!"

"It's a caricature."

"Order, order! the curtain rises."

And, in fact, the curtain rose. Some explanation is necessary for the clear understanding of
what follows. In the lower stage-box, to the left of the audience, were several persons, who
had been referred to by the young men in the stalls. The omnibus-box was occupied by the Englishman,
the eccentric and portentous bettor, whose presence inspired Morok with so much dread.

It would require Hoffman's rare and fantastic genius to describe worthily that countenance,
at once grotesque and frightful, as it stood out from the dark background of the box. This
Englishman was about fifty years old; his forehead was quite bald, and of a conical shape;
beneath this forehead, surmounted by eyebrows like parenthesis marks, glittered large, green
eyes, remarkably round and staring, and set very close to a hooked nose, extremely sharp and
prominent; a chin like that on the old fashioned nutcrackers was half-hidden in a broad and
ample white cravat, as stiffly-starched as the round-cornered shirt-collar, which nearly touched
his ears. The face was exceedingly thin and bony, and yet the complexion was high-colored,
approaching to purple, which made the bright green of the pupils, and the white of the other
part of the eyes, still more conspicuous. The mouth, which was very wide, sometimes whistled
inaudibly the tune of a Scotch jig (always the same tune), sometimes was slightly curled with
a sardonic smite. The Englishman was dressed with extreme care; his blue coat, with brass buttons,
displayed his spotless waistcoat, snowy, white as his ample cravat; his shirt was fastened
with two magnificent ruby studs, and his patrician hands were carefully kid gloved.

To any one who knew the eccentric and cruel desire which attracted this man to every representation,
his grotesque face became almost terrific, instead of exciting ridicule; and it was easy to
understand the dread experience by Morok at sight of those great, staring round eyes, which
appeared to watch for the death of the lion-tamer (what a horrible death!) with unshaken confidence.
Above the dark box of the Englishman, affording a graceful contrast, were seated the Morinvals
and Mdlle. de Cardoville. The latter was placed nearest the stage. Her head was uncovered,
and she wore a dress of sky-blue China crepe, ornamented at the bosom with a brooch of the
finest Oriental pearls--nothing more; yet Adrienne, thus attired, was charming. She held in
her hand an enormous bouquet, composed of the rarest flowers of India: the stephanotis and
the gardenia mingled the dead white of their blossoms with the purple hibiscus and Java amaryllis.

Madame de Morinval, seated on the opposite side of the box, was dressed with equal taste and
simplicity; Morinval, a fair and very handsome young man, of elegant appearance, was behind
the two ladies. M. de Montbron was expected to arrive every moment. The reader will please
to recollect that the stage-box to the right of the audience, opposite Adrienne's, had remained
till then quite empty. The stage represented one of the gigantic forests of India. In the background,
tall exotic trees rose in spiral or spreading forms, among rugged masses of perpendicular rocks,
with here and there glimpses of a tropical sky. The side-scenes formed tufts of trees, interspersed
with rocks; and at the side which was immediately beneath Adrienne's box appeared the irregular
opening of a deep and gloomy cavern, round which were heaped huge blocks of granite, as if
thrown together by some convulsion of nature. This scenery, full of a wild and savage grandeur,
was wonderfully "built up," so as to make the illusion as complete as possible; the footlights
were lowered, and being covered with a purple shade, threw over this landscape a subdued reddish
light, which increased the gloomy and startling effect of the whole. Adrienne, leaning forward
from the box, with cheeks slightly flushed, sparkling eyes, and throbbing heart, sought to
trace in this scene the solitary forest described by the traveller who had eulogized Djalma's
generosity and courage, when he threw himself upon a ferocious tigress to save the life of
a poor black slave. Chance coincided wonderfully indeed with her recollections. Absorbed in
the contemplation of the scenery and the thoughts it awakened in her heart, she paid no attention
to what was passing in the house. And yet something calculated to excite curiosity was taking
place in the opposite stage-box.

