244. The same thing happens in the world. A man not altogether stupid, and who has not confirmed
himself in falsities from the pride of self-intelligence, hearing others speak on some exalted
matter, or reading something of the kind, if he is in any affection of knowing, understands
these things and also retains them, and may afterwards confirm them. A bad man as well as a
good man may do this. Even a bad man, though in heart he denies the Divine things pertaining
to the church, can still understand them, and also speak of and preach them, and in writing
learnedly prove them; but when left to his own thought, from his own infernal love he thinks
against them and denies them. From which it is obvious that the understanding can be in spiritual
light even when the will is not in spiritual heat; and from this it also follows that the understanding
does not lead the will, or that wisdom does not beget love, but only teaches and shows the
way, - teaching how a man ought to live, and showing the way in which he ought to go. It further
follows that the will leads the understanding, and causes it to act as one with itself; also
that whatever in the understanding agrees with the love which is in the will, the love calls
wisdom. In what follows it will be seen that the will does nothing by itself apart from the
understanding, but does all that it does in conjunction with the understanding; moreover, that
it is the will that by influx takes the understanding into partnership with itself, and not
the reverse.

245. The nature of the influx of light into the three degrees of life in man which belong to
his mind, shall now be shown. The forms which are receptacles of heat and light, that is, of
love and wisdom in man, and which (as was said) are in threefold order or of three degrees,
are transparent from birth, transmitting spiritual light as crystal glass transmits natural
light; consequently in respect to wisdom man can be raised even into the third degree. Nevertheless
these forms are not opened except when spiritual heat conjoins itself to spiritual light, that
is, love to wisdom; by such conjunction these transparent forms are opened according to degrees.
It is the same with light and heat from the sun of the world in their action on plants on the
earth. The light of winter, which is as bright as that of summer, opens nothing in seed or
in tree, but when vernal heat conjoins itself to that light then the heat opens them. There
is this similarity because spiritual light corresponds to natural light, and spiritual heat
to natural heat.

246. This spiritual heat is obtained only by fleeing from evils as sins, and at the same time
looking to the Lord; for so long as man is in evils he is also in the love of them, for he
lusts after them; and the love of evil and the lust, abide in a love contrary to spiritual
love and affection; and such love or lust can be removed only by fleeing from evils as sins;
and because man cannot flee from evils from himself, but only from the Lord. He must look to
the Lord. So when he flees from evils from the Lord, the love of evil and its heat are removed,
and the love of good and its heat are introduced in their stead, whereby a higher degree is
opened; for the Lord flowing in from above opens that degree, and then conjoins love, that
is, spiritual heat, to wisdom or spiritual light, from which conjunction man begins to flourish
spiritually, like a tree in spring-time.

247. By the influx of spiritual light into all three degrees of the mind man is distinguished
from beasts; and, as contrasted with beasts, he can think analytically, and see both natural
and spiritual truth; and when he sees them he can acknowledge them, and thus be reformed and
regenerated. This capacity to receive spiritual light is what is meant by rationality (referred
to above), which every man has from the Lord, and which is not taken away from him, for if
it were taken away he could not be reformed. From this capacity, called rationality, man, unlike
the beasts, is able not only to think but also to speak from thought; and afterwards from his
other capacity, called freedom (also referred to above), he is able to do those things that
he thinks from his understanding. As these two capacities, rationality and freedom, which are
proper to man, have been treated of above (n. 240), no more will be said about them here.

248. UNLESS THE HIGHER DEGREE WHICH IS THE SPIRITUAL IS OPENED IN MAN, HE BECOMES NATURAL AND
SENSUAL.

It was shown above that there are three degrees of the human mind, called natural, spiritual,
and celestial, and that these degrees may be opened successively in man; also, that the natural
degree is first opened; afterwards, if man flees from evil as sins and looks to the Lord, the
spiritual degree is opened; and lastly, the celestial. Since these degrees are opened successively
according to man's life, it follows that the two higher degrees may remain unopened, and man
then continues in the natural degree, which is the outmost. Moreover, it is known in the world
that there is a natural and a spiritual man, or an external and an internal man; but it is
not known that a natural man becomes spiritual by the opening of some higher degree in him,
and that such opening is effected by a spiritual life, which is a life conformed to the Divine
precepts; and that without a life conformed to these man remains natural.

249. There are three kinds of natural men; the first consists of those who know nothing of
the Divine precepts; the second, of those who know that there are such precepts, but give no
thought to a life according to them; and the third, of those who despise and deny these precepts.
In respect to the first class, which consists of those who know nothing of the Divine precepts,
since they cannot be taught by themselves they must needs remain natural. Every man is taught
respecting the Divine precepts, not by immediate revelations, but by others who know them from
religion, on which subject see The Doctrine of the New Jerusalem Concerning the Sacred Scriptures
(n. 114-118). Those of the second class, who know that there are Divine precepts but give no
thought to a life according to them, also remain natural, and care about no other concerns
than those of the world and the body. These after death become mere menials and servants, according
to the uses which they are able to perform for those who are spiritual; for the natural man
is a menial and servant, and the spiritual man is a master and lord. Those of the third class,
who despise and deny the Divine precepts, not only remain natural, but also become sensual
in the measure of their contempt and denial. Sensual men are the lowest natural men, who are
incapable of thinking above the appearances and fallacies of the bodily senses. After death
they are in hell.

250. As it is unknown in the world what the spiritual man is, and what the natural, and as
by many he who is merely natural is called spiritual, and conversely, these subjects shall
be separately discussed, as follows:

(1) What the natural man is, and what the spiritual man.

(2) The character of the natural man in whom the spiritual degree is opened.

(3) The character of the natural man in whom the spiritual degree is not opened and yet not closed.

(4) The character of the natural man in whom the spiritual degree is entirely closed.

(5) Lastly, The nature of the difference between the life of a man merely natural and the life
of a beast.

251. (1) What the natural man is, and what the spiritual man. Man is not man from face and
body, but from understanding and will; therefore by the natural man and the spiritual man is
meant that man's understanding and will are either natural or spiritual. The natural man in
respect to his understanding and will is like the natural world, and may be called a world
or microcosm; and the spiritual man in respect to his understanding and will is like the spiritual
world, and may be called a spiritual world or heaven. From which it is evident that as the
natural man is in a kind of image a natural world, so he loves those things which are of the
natural world; and that as the spiritual man is in a kind of image a spiritual world, so he
loves those things which are of that world, or of heaven. The spiritual man indeed loves the
natural world also but not otherwise than as a master loves his servant through whom he performs
uses. Moreover, according to uses the natural man becomes like the spiritual, which is the
case when the natural man feels from the spiritual the delight of use; such a natural man may
be called spiritual-natural. The spiritual man loves spiritual truths; he not only loves to
know and understand them, but also wills them; while the natural man loves to speak of those
truths and also do them. Doing truths is performing uses. This subordination is from the conjunction
of the spiritual world and the natural world; for whatever appears and is done in the natural
world derives its cause from the spiritual world. From all this it can be seen that the spiritual
man is altogether distinct from the natural, and that there is no other communication between
them than such as there is between cause and effect.

252. (2) The character of the natural man in whom the spiritual degree is opened. This is obvious
from what has been said above; to which it may be added, that a natural man is a complete man
when the spiritual degree is opened in him, for he is then consociated with angels in heaven
and at the same time with men in the world, and in regard to both, lives under the Lord's guidance.
For the spiritual man imbibes commands from the Lord through the Word, and executes them through
the natural man. The natural man who has the spiritual degree opened does not know that he
thinks and acts from his spiritual man, for it seems as if he did this from himself, when yet
he does not do it from himself but from the Lord. Nor does the natural man whose spiritual
degree has been opened know that by means of his spiritual man he is in heaven, when yet his
spiritual man is in the midst of angels of heaven, and sometimes is even visible to them; but
because he draws himself back to his natural man, after a brief stay there he disappears. Nor
does the natural man in whom the spiritual degree has been opened know that his spiritual mind
is being filled by the Lord with thousands of arcana of wisdom, and with thousands of delights
of love, and that he is to come into these after death, when he becomes an angel. The natural
man does not know these things because communication between the natural man and the spiritual
man is effected by correspondences; and communication by correspondences is perceived in the
understanding only by the fact that truths are seen in light, and is perceived in the will
only by the fact that uses are performed from affection.

253. The spiritual degree is not opened, and yet not closed, in the case of those who have
led somewhat of a life of charity and yet have known little of genuine truth. The reason is,
that this degree is opened by conjunction of love and wisdom, or of heat with light; love alone
or spiritual heat alone not opening it, nor wisdom alone or spiritual light alone, but both
in conjunction. Consequently, when genuine truths, out of which wisdom or light arises, are
unknown, love is inadequate to open that degree; it only keeps it in the possibility of being
opened; this is what is meant by its not being closed. Something like this is seen in the vegetable
kingdom, in that heat alone does not cause seeds and trees to vegetate, but heat in conjunction
with light effects this. It is to be known that all truths are of spiritual light and all goods
are of spiritual heat, and that good opens the spiritual degree by means of truths; for good,
by means of truths, effects use, and uses are goods of love, which derive their essence from
a conjunction of good and truth. The lot, after death, of those in whom the spiritual degree
is not opened and yet not closed, is that since they are still natural and not spiritual, they
are in the lowest parts of heaven, where they sometimes suffer hard times; or they are in the
outskirts in some higher heaven, where they are as it were in the light of evening; for (as
was said above) in heaven and in every society there the light decreases from the middle to
the outskirts, and those who above others are in Divine truths are in the middle, while those
who are in few truths are in the outskirts. Those are in few truths who from religion know
only that there is a God, and that the Lord suffered for them, and that charity and faith are
essentials of the church, not troubling themselves to know what faith is or what charity is;
when yet faith in its essence is truth, and truth is manifold, and charity is all the work
of his calling which man does from the Lord; he does this from the Lord when he flees from
evils as sins. It is just as was said above, that the end is the all of the cause, and the
effect the all of the end by means of the cause; the end is charity or good, the cause is faith
or truth, and effects are good works or uses; from which it is plain that from charity no more
can be carried into works than the measure in which charity is conjoined with the truths which
are called truths of faith. By means of these truths charity enters into works and qualifies them.

254. (4) The character of the natural man in whom the spiritual degree is entirely closed.
The spiritual degree is closed in those who are in evils as to life, and still more in those
who from evils are in falsities. It is the same as with the fibril of a nerve, which contracts
at the slightest touch of any thing heterogeneous; so every motive fiber of a muscle, yea,
the muscle itself, and even the whole body shrinks from the touch of whatever is hard or cold.
So also the substances or forms of the spiritual degree in man shrink from evils and their
falsities, because these are heterogeneous. For the spiritual degree, being in the form of
heaven, admits nothing but goods, and truths that are from good; these are homogeneous to it;
but evils, and falsities that are from evil, are heterogeneous to it. This degree is contracted,
and by contraction closed, especially in those who in the world are in love of ruling from
love of self, because this love is opposed to love to the Lord. It is also closed, but not
so much, in those who from love of the world are in the insane greed of possessing the goods
of others. These loves shut the spiritual degree, because they are the origins of evils. The
contraction or closing of this degree is like the twisting back of a spiral in the opposite
direction; for which reason, that degree after it is closed, turns back the light of heaven;
consequently there is thick darkness there instead of heavenly light, and truth which is in
the light of heaven, becomes nauseous. In such persons, not only does the spiritual degree
itself become closed, but also the higher region of the natural degree which is called the
rational, until at last the lowest region of the natural degree, which is called the sensual,
alone stands open; this being nearest to the world and to the outward senses of the body, from
which such a man afterwards thinks, speaks, and reasons. The natural man who has become sensual
through evils and their falsities, in the spiritual world in the light of heaven does not appear
as a man but as a monster, even with nose drawn back (the nose is drawn in because the nose
corresponds to the perception of truth); moreover, he cannot bear a ray of heavenly light.
Such have in their caverns no other light than what resembles the light from live coals or
from burning charcoal. From all this it is evident who and of what character are those in whom
the spiritual degree is closed.

255. (5) The nature of the difference between the life of a natural man and the life of a beast.
This difference will be particularly discussed in what follows, where Life will be treated
of. Here it may be said only that the difference is that man has three degrees of mind, that
is, three degrees of understanding and will, which degrees can be opened successively; and
as these are transparent, man can be raised as to his understanding into the light of heaven
and see truths, not only civil and moral, but also spiritual, and from many truths seen can
form conclusions about truths in their order, and thus perfect the understanding to eternity.
But beasts do not have the two higher degrees, but only the natural degrees, and these apart
from the higher degrees have no capacity to think on any subject, civil, moral, or spiritual.
And since the natural degrees of beasts are incapable of being opened, and thereby raised into
higher light, they are unable to think in successive order, but only in simultaneous order,
which is not thinking, but acting from a knowledge corresponding to their love. And because
they are unable to think analytically, and to view a lower thought from any higher thought,
they are unable to speak, but are able only to utter sounds in accordance with the knowledge
pertaining to their love. Yet the sensual man, who is in the lowest sense natural, differs
from the beast only in this, that he can fill his memory with knowledges, and think and speak
therefrom; this power he gets from a capacity proper to every man, of being able to understand
truth if he chooses; it is this capacity that makes the difference. Nevertheless many, by abuse
of this capacity, have made themselves lower than beasts.

256. THE NATURAL DEGREE OF THE HUMAN MIND REGARDED IN ITSELF IS CONTINUOUS, BUT BY CORRESPONDENCE
WITH THE TWO HIGHER DEGREES IT APPEARS WHEN IT IS ELEVATED AS IF IT WERE DISCRETE.

Although this is hardly comprehensible, by those who have as yet no knowledge of degrees of
height, it must nevertheless be revealed, because it is a part of angelic wisdom; and while
the natural man is unable to think about this wisdom in the same way as angels do, nevertheless
it can be comprehended by his understanding, when it has been raised into the degree of light
in which angels are; for his understanding can be elevated even to that extent, and enlightened
according to its elevation. But this enlightenment of the natural mind does not ascend by discrete
degrees; but increases in a continuous degree, and as it increases, that mind is enlightened
from within by the light of the two higher degrees. How this occurs can be comprehended from
a perception of degrees of height, as being one above another, while the natural degree, which
is the lowest, is a kind of general covering to the two higher degrees. Then, as the natural
degree is raised up towards a degree of the higher kind, the higher acts from within upon the
outer natural and illuminates it. This illumination is effected, indeed, from within, by the
light of the higher degrees, but the natural degree which envelops and surrounds the higher
receives it by continuity, thus more lucidly and purely in proportion to its ascent; that is,
from within, by the light of the higher degrees, the natural degree is enlightened discretely,
but in itself is enlightened continuously. From this it is evident that so long as man lives
in the world, and is thereby in the natural degree, he cannot be elevated into very wisdom,
such as the angels have, but only into higher light, even up to angels, and can receive enlightenment
from their light that flows in from within and illuminates. But these things cannot as yet
be more clearly described; they can be better comprehended from effects; for effects present
causes in themselves in clear light, and thus illustrate them, when there is some previous
knowledge of causes.

257. The effects are these: (1) The natural mind may be raised up to the light of heaven in
which angels are, and may perceive naturally, thus not so fully, what the angels perceive spiritually;
nevertheless, man's natural mind cannot be raised into angelic light itself. (2) By means of
his natural mind, raised to the light of heaven, man can think, yea, speak with angels; but
the thought and speech of the angels then flow into the natural thought and speech of the man,
and not conversely; so that angels speak with man in a natural language, which is the man's
mother tongue. (3) This is effected by a spiritual influx into what is natural, and not by
any natural influx into what is spiritual. (4) Human wisdom, which so long as man lives in
the natural world is natural, can by no means be raised into angelic wisdom, but only into
some image of it. The reason is, that elevation of the natural mind is effected by continuity,
as from shade to light, or from grosser to purer. Still the man in whom the spiritual degree
has been opened comes into that wisdom when he dies; and he may also come into it by a suspension
of bodily sensations, and then by an influx from above into the spiritual parts of his mind.
(5) Man's natural mind consists of spiritual substances together with natural substances; thought
comes from its spiritual substances, not from its natural substances; these recede when the
man dies, while its spiritual substances do not. Consequently, after death, when man becomes
a spirit or angel, the same mind remains in a form like that which it had in the world. (6)
The natural substances of that mind, which recede (as was said) by death, constitute the cutaneous
covering of the spiritual body which spirits and angels have. By means of such covering, which
is taken from the natural world, their spiritual bodies maintain existence; for the natural
is the outmost containant: consequently there is no spirit or angel who was not born a man.
These arcana of angelic wisdom are here adduced that the quality of the natural mind in man
may be known, which subject is further treated of in what follows.

258. Every man is born into a capacity to understand truths even to the inmost degree in which
the angels of the third heaven are; for the human understanding, rising up by continuity around
the two higher degrees, receives the light of their wisdom, in the manner stated above (n.
256). Therefore man has the ability to become rational according to his elevation; if raised
to the third degree he becomes rational from that degree, if raised to the second degree he
becomes rational from that degree, if not raised he is rational in the first degree. It is
said that he becomes rational from those degrees, because the natural degree is the general
receptacle of their light. The reason why man does not become rational to the height that he
might is, that love, which is of the will, cannot be raised in the same manner as wisdom, which
is of the understanding. Love, which is of the will, is raised only by fleeing from evils as
sins, and then by goods of charity, which are uses, which the man thereafter performs from
the Lord. Consequently, when love, which is of the will, is not at the same time raised, wisdom,
which is of the understanding, however it may have ascended, falls back again down to its own
love. Therefore, if man's love is not at the same time raised into the spiritual degree, he
is rational only in the lowest degree. From all this it can be seen that man's rational is
in appearance as if it were of three degrees, a rational from the celestial, a rational from
the spiritual, and a rational from the natural; also that rationality, which is the capacity
whereby man is elevated, is still in man whether he be elevated or not.

259. It has been said that every man is born into that capacity, namely, rationality, but by
this is meant every man whose externals have not been injured by some accident, either in the
womb, or by some disease after birth, or by a wound inflicted on the head, or in consequence
of some insane love bursting forth, and breaking down restraints. In such the rational cannot
be elevated; for life, which is of the will and understanding, has in such no bounds in which
it can terminate, so disposed that it can produce outmost acts according to order; for life
acts in accordance with outmost determinations, though not from them. That there can be no
rationality with infants and children, may be seen below (n. 266, at the end).

260. THE NATURAL MIND, SINCE IT IS THE COVERING AND CONTAINANT OF THE HIGHER DEGREES OF THE
HUMAN MIND, IS REACTIVE; AND IF THE HIGHER DEGREES ARE NOT OPENED IT ACTS AGAINST THEM, BUT
IF THEY ARE OPENED IT ACTS WITH THEM.

It has been shown in the preceding chapter that as the natural mind is in the outmost degree,
it envelops and encloses the spiritual mind and the celestial mind, which, in respect to degrees,
are above it. It is now to be shown that the natural mind reacts against the higher or interior
minds. It reacts because it covers, includes, and contains them, and this cannot be done without
reaction; for unless it reacted, the interior or enclosed parts would become loosened and press
outward and thus fall apart, just as the viscera, which are the interiors of the body, would
push forth and fall asunder if the coverings which are about the body did not react against
them; so, too, unless the membrane investing the motor fibers of a muscle reacted against the
force of these fibers in their activities, not only would action cease, but all the inner tissues
would be let loose. It is the same with every outmost degree of the degrees of height; consequently
with the natural mind with respect to higher degrees; for, as was said above, there are three
degrees of the human mind, the natural, the spiritual, and the celestial, and the natural mind
is in the outmost degree. Another reason why the natural mind reacts against the spiritual
mind is, that the natural mind consists not only of substances of the spiritual world but also
of substances of the natural world (as was said above, n. 257), and substances of the natural
world of their very nature react against the substances of the spiritual world; for substances
of the natural world are in themselves dead, and are acted upon from without by substances
of the spiritual world; and substances which are dead, and which are acted upon from without,
by their nature resist, and thus by their nature react. From all this it can be seen that the
natural man reacts against the spiritual man, and that there is combat. It is the same thing
whether the terms "natural and spiritual man" or "natural and spiritual mind" are used.

261. From this it is obvious that when the spiritual mind is closed the natural mind continually
acts against the things of the spiritual mind, fearing lest anything should flow in therefrom
to disturb its own states. Everything that flows in through the spiritual mind is from heaven,
for the spiritual mind in its form is a heaven; while everything that flows into the natural
mind is from the world, for the natural mind in its form is a world. From which it follows
that when the spiritual mind is closed, the natural mind reacts against all things of heaven,
giving them no admission except so far as they are serviceable to it as means for acquiring
and possessing the things of the world. And when the things of heaven are made to serve the
natural mind as means to its own ends, then those means, though they seem to be heavenly, are
made natural; for the end qualifies them, and they become like the knowledges of the natural
man, in which interiorly there is nothing of life. But as things heavenly cannot be so joined
to things natural that the two act as one, they separate, and, with men merely natural, things
heavenly arrange themselves from without, in a circuit about the natural things which are within.
From this it is that a merely natural man can speak and preach about heavenly things, and even
simulate them in his actions, though inwardly he thinks against them; the latter he does when
alone, the former when in company. But of these things more in what follows.

262. By virtue of the reaction which is in him from birth the natural mind, or man, when he
loves himself and the world above all things, acts against the things that are of the spiritual
mind or man. Then also he has a sense of enjoyment in evils of every kind, as adultery, fraud,
revenge, blasphemy, and other like things; he then also acknowledges nature as the creator
of the universe; and confirms all things by means of his rational faculty; and after confirmation
he either perverts or suffocates or repels the goods and truths of heaven and the church, and
at length either shuns them or turns his back upon them or hates them. This he does in his
spirit, and in the body just so far as he dares to speak with others from his spirit without
fear of the loss of reputation as a means to honor and gain. When man is such, he gradually
shuts up the spiritual mind closer and closer. Confirmations of evil by means of falsities
especially close it up; therefore evil and falsity when confirmed cannot be uprooted after
death; they are only uprooted by means of repentance in the world.

