But they rested, and they went so far as to fill their pipes and stretch themselves upon the
sand. When night came on, chilly and dark, they gathered driftwood and dead branches from the
thicket and built a camp-fire. They sat around it, and smoked their pipes, but they did not
tell stories, nor did they talk very much. They were glad to rest, they were glad to keep warm,
but that was all. The only really cheerful thing upon the beach was the fire, which leaped
high and blazed merrily as the dried wood was heaped upon it.

CHAPTER XXXIX

SHIRLEY SPIES A SAIL

When the Arato changed her mind about going to Callao, and sailed southward some five days
after the Miranda had started on the same course, she had very good weather for the greater
part of a week, and sailed finely. Cardatas, who owned a share in her, had sailed upon her
as first mate, but he had never before commanded her. He was a good navigator, however, and
well fitted for the task he had undertaken. He was a sharp fellow, and kept his eyes on everybody,
particularly upon Nunez, who, although a landsman, and in no wise capable of sailing a ship,
was perfectly capable of making plans regarding any vessel in which he was interested, especially
when such a vessel happened to be sailing in pursuit of treasure, the value of which was merely
a matter of conjecture. It was not impossible that the horse-dealer, who had embarked money
in this venture, might think that one of the mariners on board might be able to sail the schooner
as well as Cardatas, and would not expect so large a share of the profits should the voyage
be successful. But when the storms came on, Nunez grew sick and unhappy, and retired below,
and he troubled the mind of Cardatas no more for the present.

The Arato sailed well with a fair wind, but in many respects she was not as good a sea-boat
in a storm as the Miranda had proved to be, and she had been obliged to lie to a great deal
through the days and nights of high winds and heavy seas. Having never had, until now, the
responsibility of a vessel upon him, Cardatas was a good deal more cautious and prudent, perhaps,
than Captain Horn would have been had he been in command of the Arato. Among other methods
of precaution which Cardatas thought it wise to take, he steered well out from the coast, and
thus greatly lengthened his course, and at last, when a clearing sky enabled him to take an
observation, he found himself so far to the westward that he changed his course entirely and
steered for the southeast.

Notwithstanding all these retarding circumstances, Cardatas did not despair of overhauling
the Miranda. He was sure she would make for the Straits, and he did not in the least doubt
that, with good winds, he could overtake her before she reached them, and even if she did get
out of them, he could still follow her. His belief that the Arato could sail two miles to the
Miranda's one was still unshaken. The only real fear he had was that the Miranda might have
foundered in the storm. If that should happen to be the case, their voyage would be a losing
one, indeed, but he said nothing of his fears to Nunez.

The horse-dealer was now on deck again, in pretty fair condition, but he was beginning to be
despondent. After such an awful storm, and in all that chaos of waves, what chance was there
of finding a little brig such as they were after?

"But vessels sail in regular courses," Cardatas said to him. "They don't go meandering all
over the ocean. If they are bound for any particular place, they go there on the shortest safe
line they can lay down on the map. We can go on that line, too, although we may be thrown out
of it by storms. But we can strike it again, and then all we have to do is to keep on it as
straight as we can, and we are bound to overtake another vessel on the same course, provided
we sail faster than she does. It is all plain enough, don't you see?"

Nunez could not help seeing, but he was a little cross, nevertheless. The map and the ocean
were wonderfully different.

The wind had changed, and the Arato did not make very good sailing on her southeastern course.
High as was her captain's opinion of her, she never had sailed, nor ever could sail, two miles
to the Miranda's one, although she was a good deal faster than the brig. But she was fairly
well handled, and in due course of time she approached so near the coast that her lookout sighted
land, which land Cardatas, consulting his chart, concluded must be one of the Patagonian islands
to the north of the Gulf of Penas.

As night came on, Cardatas determined to change his course somewhat to the south, as he did
not care to trust himself too near the coast, when suddenly the lookout reported a light on
the port bow. Cardatas had sailed down this coast before, but he had never heard of a lighthouse
in the region, and with his glass he watched the light. But he could not make it out. It was
a strange light, for sometimes it was bright and sometimes dull, then it would increase greatly
and almost fade away again.

"It looks like a fire on shore," said he, and some of the other men who took the glass agreed
with him.

"And what does that mean?" asked Nunez.

"I don't know," replied Cardatas, curtly. "How should I? But one thing I do know, and that
is that I shall lie to until morning, and then we can feel our way near to the coast and see
what it does mean."

"But what do you want to know for?" asked Nunez. "I suppose somebody on shore has built a fire.
Is there any good stopping for that? We have lost a lot of time already."

"I am going to lie to, anyway," said Cardatas. "When we are on such business as ours, we should
not pass anything without understanding it."

Cardatas had always supposed that these islands were uninhabited, and he could not see why
anybody should be on one of them making a fire, unless it were a case of shipwreck. If a ship
had been wrecked, it was not at all impossible that the Miranda might be the unfortunate vessel.
In any case, it would be wise to lie to, and look into the matter by daylight. If the Miranda
had gone down at sea, and her crew had reached land in boats, the success of the Arato's voyage
would be very dubious. And should this misfortune have happened, he must be careful about Nunez
when he came to hear of it. When he turned into his hammock that night, Cardatas had made up
his mind that, if he should discover that the Miranda had gone to the bottom, it would be a
very good thing if arrangements could be made for Nunez to follow her.

That night the crew of the Miranda slept well and enjoyed the first real rest they had had
since the storm. No watch was kept, for they all thought it would be an unnecessary hardship.
The captain awoke at early dawn, and, as he stepped out of the tent, he glanced over sea and
land. There were no signs of storm, the brig had not slipped out into deep water, their boats
were still high and dry upon the beach, and there was something encouraging in the soft, early
light and the pleasant morning air. He was surprised, however, to find that he was not the
first man out. On a piece of higher ground, a little back from the tents, Shirley was standing,
a glass to his eye.

"What do you see?" cried the captain.

"A sail!" returned Shirley.

At this every man in the tents came running out. Even to the negroes the words, "A sail," had
the startling effect which they always have upon ship-wrecked men.

The effect upon Captain Horn was a strange one, and he could scarcely understand it himself.
It was amazing that succor, if succor it should prove to be, had arrived so quickly after their
disaster. But not-withstanding the fact that he would be overjoyed to be taken off that desolate
coast, he could not help a strong feeling of regret that a sail had appeared so soon. If they
had had time to conceal their treasure, all might have been well. With the bags of gold buried
in a trench, or covered with sand so as to look like a natural mound, he and his sailors might
have been taken off merely as shipwrecked sailors, and carried to some port where he might
charter another vessel and come back after his gold. But now he knew that whoever landed on
this beach must know everything, for it would be impossible to conceal the contents of that
long pile of bags, and what consequences might follow upon such knowledge it was impossible
for him to imagine. Burke had very much the same idea.

"By George, captain!" said he, "it is a great pity that she came along so soon. What do you
say? Shall we signal her or not? We want to get away, but it would be beastly awkward for anybody
to come ashore just now. I wish we had buried the bags as fast as we brought them ashore."

The captain did not answer. Perhaps it might be as well not to signal her. And yet, this might
be their only chance of rescue!

"What do you say to jumping into the boats and rowing out to meet them?" asked Burke. "We'd
have to leave the bags uncovered, but we might get to a port, charter some sort of a craft,
and get back for the bags before any other vessel came so near the coast."

"I don't see what made this one come so near," said Shirley, "unless it was our fire last night.
She might have thought that was a signal."

"I shouldn't wonder," said the captain, who held the glass. "But we needn't trouble ourselves
about going out in boats, for she is making straight for land."

"That's so," said Shirley, who could now see this for himself, for the light was rapidly growing
stronger. "She must have seen our fire last night. Shall I hoist a signal?"

"No," said the captain. "Wait!"

They waited to see what this vessel was going to do. Perhaps she was only tacking. But what
fool of a skipper would run so close to the shore for the sake of tacking! They watched her
eagerly, but not one of the white men would have been wholly disappointed if the schooner,
which they could now easily make out, had changed her course and gone off on a long tack to
the southwest.

But she was not tacking. She came rapidly on before a stiff west wind. There was no need of
getting out boats to go to meet her. She was south of the headland, but was steering directly
toward it. They could see what sort of craft she was--a long schooner, painted green, with
all sails set. Very soon they could see the heads of the men on board. Then she came nearer
and nearer to land, until she was less than half a mile from shore. Then she shot into the
wind; her sails fluttered; she lay almost motionless, and her head-sails were lowered.

"That's just as if they were coming into port," said Burke.

"Yes," said Shirley, "I expect they intend to drop anchor."

This surmise was correct, for, as he spoke, the anchor went down with a splash.

"They're very business-like," said Burke. "Look at them. They are lowering a boat."

"A boat!" exclaimed Shirley, "They're lowering two of them."

The captain knit his brows. This was extraordinary action on the part of the vessel. Why did
she steer so straight for land? Why did she so quickly drop anchor and put out two boats? Could
it be that this vessel had been on their track? Could it be that the Peruvian government--But
he could not waste time in surmise as to what might be. They must act, not conjecture.

It was not a minute before the captain made up his mind how they should act. Five men were
in each boat, and with a glass it was easy to see that some of them carried guns.

"Get your rifles!" cried he to Shirley and Burke, and he rushed for his own.

The arms and ammunition had been all laid ready in the tent, and in a moment each one of the
white men had a rifle and a belt of cartridges. For the blacks there were no guns, as they
would not have known how to use them, but they ran about in great excitement, each with his
knife drawn, blindly ready to do whatever should be ordered. The poor negroes were greatly
frightened. They had but one idea about the approaching boats: they believed that the men in
them were Rackbirds coming to wreak vengeance upon them. The same idea had come into the mind
of the captain. Some of the Rackbirds had gone back to the cove. They had known that there
had been people there. They had made investigations, and found the cave and the empty mound,
and in some way had discovered that the Miranda had gone off with its contents. Perhaps the
black fellow who had deserted the vessel at Valparaiso had betrayed them. He hurriedly mentioned
his suspicions to his companions.

"I shouldn't wonder," said Burke, "if that Inkspot had done it. Perhaps he could talk a good
deal better than we thought. But I vow I wouldn't have supposed that he would be the man to
go back on us. I thought he was the best of the lot."

"Get behind that wall of bags," cried the captain, "every one of you. Whoever they are, we
will talk to them over a breastwork."

"I think we shall have to do more than talk," said Burke, "for a blind man could see that there
are guns in those boats."

CHAPTER XL

THE BATTLE OF THE GOLDEN WALL

The five men now got behind the barrier of bags, but, before following them, Captain Horn,
with the butt of his rifle, drew a long, deep furrow in the sand about a hundred feet from
the breastwork of bags, and parallel with it. Then he quickly joined the others.

The three white men stationed themselves a little distance apart, and each moved a few of the
top bags so as to get a good sight between them, and not expose themselves too much.

As the boats came on, the negroes crouched on the sand, entirely out of sight, while Shirley
and Burke each knelt down behind the barrier, with his rifle laid in a crevice in the top.
The captain's rifle was in his hand, but he did not yet prepare for action. He stooped down,
but his head was sufficiently above the barrier to observe everything.

The two boats came rapidly on, and were run up on the beach, and the men jumped out and drew
them up, high and safe. Then, without the slightest hesitation, the ten of them, each with
a gun in his hand, advanced in a body toward the line of bags.

"Ahoy!" shouted the captain, suddenly rising from behind the barrier. "Who are you, and what
do you want?" He said this in English, but immediately repeated it in Spanish.

"Ahoy, there!" cried Cardatas. "Are you Captain Horn?"

"Yes, I am," said the captain, "and you must halt where you are. The first man who passes that
line is shot."

Cardatas laughed, and so did some of the others, but they all stopped.

"We'll stop here a minute to oblige you," said Cardatas, "but we've got something to say to
you, and you might as well listen to it."

Shirley and Burke did not understand a word of these remarks, for they did not know Spanish,
but each of them kept his eye running along the line of men who still stood on the other side
of the furrow the captain had made in the sand, and if one of them had raised his gun to fire
at their skipper, it is probable that he would have dropped. Shirley and Burke had been born
and bred in the country; they were hunters, and were both good shots. It was on account of
their fondness for sport that they had been separated from the rest of their party on the first
day of the arrival of the people from the Castor at the caves.

"What have you to say?" said the captain. "Speak quickly."

Cardatas did not immediately answer, for Nunez was excitedly talking to him. The soul of the
horse-dealer had been inflamed by the sight of the bags. He did not suppose it possible that
they could all contain gold, but he knew they must be valuable, or they would not have been
carried up there, and he was advising a rush for the low wall.

"We will see what we can do with them, first," said Cardatas to Nunez. "Some of us may be shot
if we are in too great a hurry. They are well defended where they are, and we may have to get
round into their rear. Then we can settle their business very well, for the negro said there
were only three white men. But first let us talk to them. We may manage them without running
any risks."

Cardatas turned toward the captain, and at the same time Burke said:

"Captain, hadn't you better squat down a little? You're making a very fine mark of yourself."

But the captain still stood up to listen to Cardatas.

"I'll tell you what we've come for," said the latter. "We are not officers of the law, but
we are the same thing. We know all about you and the valuable stuff you've run away with, and
we've been offered a reward to bring back those bags, and to bring you back, too, dead or alive,
and here we are, ready to do it. It was good luck for us that your vessel came to grief, but
we should have got you, even if she hadn't. We were sure to overhaul you in the Straits. We
know all about you and that old hulk, but we are fair and square people, and we're sailors,
and we don't want to take advantage of anybody, especially of sailors who have had misfortunes.
Now, the reward the Californian government has offered us is not a very big one, and I think
you can do better by us, so if you'll agree to come out from behind that breastwork and talk
to us fair and square, your two white men and your three negroes,--you see, we know all about
you,--I think we can make a bargain that'll suit all around. The government of California hasn't
any claim on us, and we don't see why we should serve it any more than we should serve you,
and it will be a good deal better for you to be content with half the treasure you've gone
off with, or perhaps a little more than that, and let us have the rest. We will take you off
on our vessel, and land you at any port you want to go to, and you can take your share of the
bags ashore with you. Now, that's what I call a fair offer, and I think you will say so, too."

Captain Horn was much relieved by part of this speech. He had had a slight fear, when Cardatas
began, that these men might have been sent out by the Peruvian government, but now he saw they
were a set of thieves, whether Rackbirds or not, doing business on their own account.

"The Californian government has nothing to do with me," cried Captain Horn, "and it never had
anything to do with you, either. When you say that, you lie! I am not going to make any bargain
with you, or have anything to do with you. My vessel is wrecked, but we can take care of ourselves.
And now I'll give you five minutes to get to your boats, and the quicker you go, the better
for you!"

At this, Nunez stepped forward, his face red with passion. "Look here, you Yankee thief," he
cried, "we'll give you just one minute to come out from behind that pile of bags. If you don't
come, we'll--"

But if he said any more, Captain Horn did not hear it, for at that moment Burke cried: "Drop,
captain!" And the captain dropped.

Stung by the insult he had received, and unable to resist the temptation of putting an end
to the discussion by shooting Captain Horn, Cardatas raised his rifle to his shoulder, and
almost in the same instant that the captain's body disappeared behind the barrier, he fired.
But the bullet had scarcely left his barrel when another ball, from Shirley's gun, struck Cardatas
under his uplifted left arm, and stretched him on the sand.

A shock ran through the attacking party, and instinctively they retreated several yards. So
suddenly had they lost their leader that, for a few moments, they did not seem to understand
the situation. But, on a shout from one of them to look out for themselves, every man dropped
flat upon the beach, behind a low bank of sand scarcely a foot high. This was not much protection,
but it was better than standing up as marks for the rifles behind the barrier.

The men from the Arato were very much surprised by what had happened. They had expected to
have an easy job with the crew of the Miranda. As soon as the sailor Sanchez had seen the stranded
brig, he had recognized her, and Cardatas, as well as the rest of them, had thought that there
would be nothing to do but to go on shore with a party of well-armed men, and possess themselves
of whatever treasure she had brought to this deserted coast. But to find her crew strongly
intrenched and armed had very much amazed them.

Nunez's anger had disappeared, and his accustomed shrewdness had taken its place, for he now
saw that very serious business was before them. He was not much of a soldier, but he knew enough
to understand that in the plan proposed by Cardatas lay their only hope of success. It would
be ridiculous to lie there and waste their ammunition on that wall of bags. He was lying behind
the others, and raised his head just enough to tell them what they should do.

"We must get into their rear," he said. "We must creep along the sand until we reach those
bushes up there, and then we can get behind them. I'll go first, and you can follow me."

At, this, he began to work himself along the beach, somewhat after the fashion of an earthworm.
But the men paid no attention to him. There was little discipline among them, and they had
no respect for the horse-dealer as a commander, so they remained on the sands, eagerly talking
among themselves. Some of them were frightened, and favored a rush for the boats. But this
advice brought down curses from the others. What were three men to nine, that they should run away?

Burke now became tired of waiting to see what would happen next, and putting his hat on a little
stick, he raised it a short distance above the breastwork. Instantly one of the more excitable
men from the Arato fired at it.

"Very good," said Burke. "They want to keep it up, do they? Now, captain," he continued, "we
can see the backs and legs of most of them. Shall we fire at them? That will be just as good
as killing them. They mean fight--that's easy to see."

But the captain was not willing to follow Burke's advice.

"I don't want to wound or maim them," he replied. "Let's give them a volley just over their
heads, and let them see what we are prepared to do. Now, then, when I give the word!"

In a few moments three shots rang out from the intrenchment, and the bullets went whistling
over the prostrate bodies of the men on the sand. But these tactics did not have the effect
Captain Horn hoped for. They led to no waving of handkerchiefs, nor any show of an intention
to treat with an armed and intrenched foe. Instead of that, the man Sanchez sprang to his feet
and cried:

"Come on, boys! Over the wall and at them before they can reload!"

At this all the men sprang up and dashed toward the line of bags, Nunez with them. Somebody
might get hurt in this wild charge, but he must reach the treasure as soon as the others. He
must not fail in that. But Sanchez made a great mistake when he supposed that Captain Horn
and his men fought with such arms as the muzzle-loading rifles and shot--guns which the Arato's
men had thought quite sufficient to bring with them for the work they had to do. Captain Horn,
when he had fitted out the Miranda, had supplied himself and his two white men with fine repeating
rifles, and the Arato's men had scarcely crossed the line which had been drawn on the sand
before there were three shots from the barrier, and three of the enemy dropped. Even the captain
made a good shot this time.

At this the attacking party stopped, and some of them shouted, "To the boats!" Nunez said nothing,
for he was dead. There had been much straggling in the line, and Shirley had singled him out
as one of the leaders. Before one of them had turned or a retreat begun, Burke's rifle flashed,
and another man fell over against a companion, and then down upon the sand. The distance was
very short, and a bad shot was almost impossible for a good hunter.

Now there was no hesitation. The five men who had life and legs, turned and dashed for the
boats. But the captain did not intend, now, that they should escape, and rifle after rifle
cracked from the barricade, and before they reached the boats, four of the flying party had
fallen. The fifth man stumbled over one of his companions, who dropped in front of him, then
rose to his feet, threw down his gun, and, turning his face toward the shore, held up his hands
high above his head.

"I surrender!" he cried, and, still with his arms above his head, and his face whiter than
the distant sands, he slowly walked toward the barrier.

The captain rose. "Halt!" he cried, and the man stood stock-still. "Now, my men," cried the
captain, turning to Burke and Shirley, "keep your eyes on that fellow until we reach him, and
if he moves, shoot him."

The three white men, followed by the negroes, ran down to the man, and when they had reached
him, they carefully searched him to see if he had any concealed weapons.

After glancing rapidly over the bodies which lay upon the sand, the captain turned to his men.

"Come on, every one of you," he shouted, "and run out that boat," pointing to the largest one
that had brought the Arato's men ashore.

Shirley and Burke looked at him in surprise.

"We want that vessel!" he cried, in answer. "Be quick!" And taking hold of the boat himself,
he helped the others push it off the sand. "Now, then," he continued, "Shirley, you and Burke
get into the bow, with your rifles. Tumble in, you black fellows, and each take an oar. You,"
he said in Spanish to the prisoner, "get in and take an oar, too."

The captain took the tiller. Shirley and Burke pushed the boat into deep water, and jumped
aboard. The oars dipped, and they were off, regardless of the low surf which splashed its crest
over the gunwale as the boat turned.

"Tell me, you rascal," said the captain to the prisoner, who was tugging at his oar as hard
as the others, "how many men are aboard that schooner?"

"Only two, I swear to you, Señor Capitan; there were twelve of us in all."

The men left on the schooner had evidently watched the proceedings on shore, and were taking
measures accordingly.

"They've slipped their anchor, and the tide is running out!" shouted the captain. "Pull! Pull!"

"They're running up their jib!" cried Burke. "Lay to, you fellows, or I'll throw one of you
overboard, and take his place!"

The captured man was thoroughly frightened. They were great fighters, these men he had fallen
among, and he pulled as though he were rowing to rescue his dearest friend. The black fellows
bent to their oars like madmen. They were thoroughly excited. They did not know what they were
rowing: for they only knew they were acting under the orders of their captain, who had just
killed nine Rackbirds, and their teeth and their eyes flashed as their oars dipped and bent.

CHAPTER XLI

THE "ARATO" ANCHORS NEARER SHORE

On went the boat, each one of the oarsmen pulling with all his force, the captain in the stern,
shouting and encouraging them, and Shirley and Burke crouched in the bow, each with his rifle
in hand. Up went the jib of the Arato. She gently turned about as she felt the influence of
the wind, and then the captain believed the men on board were trying to get up the foresail.

"Are you sure there are only two of the crew on that schooner?" said the captain to the prisoner.
"Now, it isn't worth while to lie to me."

"Only two," said the man. "I swear to it. Only two, Señor Capitan."

The foresail did not go up, for one of the men had to run to the wheel, and as the vessel's
head got slowly around, it seemed as if she might sail away from the boat, even with nothing
but the jib set. But the schooner gained headway very slowly, and the boat neared her rapidly.
Now the man at the wheel gave up all hope of sailing away from his pursuers. He abandoned the
helm, and in a few moments two heads and two guns showed over the rail, and two shots rang
out. But the schooner was rolling, and the aim was bad. Shirley and Burke fired at the two
heads as soon as they saw them, but the boat was rising and pitching, and their shots were
also bad.

For a minute there was no more firing, and then one of the heads and one of the guns were seen
again. Shirley was ready, and made his calculations, and, as the boat rose, he drew a bead
upon the top of the rail where he saw the head, and had scarcely pulled his trigger when he
saw a good deal more than a head, for a man sprung up high in the air and then fell backward.

The captain now ordered his men to rest on their oars, for, if the other man on board should
show himself, they could get a better shot at him than if they were nearer. But the man did
not show himself, and, on consideration of his probable tactics, it seemed extremely dangerous
to approach the vessel. Even here they were in danger, but should they attempt to board her,
they could not tell from what point he might fire down upon them, and some of them would surely
be shot before they could get a chance at him, and the captain did not wish to sacrifice any
of his men, even for a vessel, if it could be helped. There seemed to be no hope of safely
gaining their object, except to wait until the man should become tired and impatient, and expose
himself.

Suddenly, to the amazement of every one in the boat, for all heads were turned toward the schooner,
a man appeared, boldly running over her deck. Shirley and Burke instantly raised their rifles,
but dropped them again. There was a shout from Maka, and an exclamation from the prisoner.
Then the man on deck stooped close to the rail and was lost to their sight, but almost instantly
he reappeared again, holding in front of him a struggling pair of legs, feet uppermost. Then,
upon the rail, appeared a man's head and body; but it only remained there for an instant, for
his legs were raised still higher by the person behind him, and were then propelled outward
with such force that he went headlong overboard. Then the man on deck sprang to the top of
the rail, regardless of the rolling of the vessel in the gentle swell, and waved his hands
above his head.

"Inkspot!" shouted the captain. "Pull away, you fellows! Pull!"

The tall, barefooted negro sprang to the deck from his perilous position, and soon reappeared
with a line ready to throw to the boat.

In a few minutes they reached the vessel, and the boat was quickly made fast, and very soon
they were on board. When he saw his old friends and associates upon the deck, Inkspot retired
a little distance and fell upon his knees.

"You black rascal!" roared Burke, "you brought these cut-throat scoundrels down upon us! You--"

"That will do," said the captain. "There is no time for that sort of thing now. We will talk
to him afterwards. Mr. Shirley, call all hands and get up sail. I am going to take this schooner
inside the headland. We can find safe anchorage in the bay. We can sail over the same course
we went on with the Miranda, and she drew more water than this vessel."

In an hour the Arato, moored by her spare anchor, lay in the little bay, less than two hundred
yards from shore. It gave the shipwrecked men a wild delight to find themselves again upon
the decks of a seaworthy vessel, and everybody worked with a will, especially the prisoner
and Inkspot. And when the last sail had been furled, it became evident to all hands on board
that they wanted their breakfast, and this need was speedily supplied by Maka and Inkspot from
the Arato's stores.

That afternoon the captain went on shore with the negroes and the Chilian prisoner, and the
bodies of the nine men who had fallen in the attack upon the wall of gold were buried where
they lay. This was a very different climate from that of the Peruvian coast, where the desiccating
air speedily makes a mummy of any dead body upon its arid sands.

When this work had been accomplished, the party returned to the Arato, and the captain ordered
Inkspot and the prisoner to be brought aft to be tried by court martial. The big negro had
been wildly and vociferously received by his fellow-countrymen, who, upon every possible occasion,
had jabbered together in their native tongue, but Captain Horn had, so far, said nothing to him.

The captain had been greatly excited from the moment he had seen the sail in the offing. In
his dire distress, on this almost desolate shore, he had beheld what might prove to be speedy
relief, and, much as he had needed it, he had hoped that it might not come so soon. He had
been apprehensive and anxious when he supposed friendly aid might be approaching, and he had
been utterly astounded when he was forced to believe that they were armed men who were rowing
to shore, and must be enemies. He had fought a terrible fight. He had conquered the scoundrels
who had come for his life and his treasure, and, best of all, he had secured a vessel which
would carry him and his men and his fortune to France. He had endeavored to keep cool and think
only of the work that was immediately in hand, and he had no wish to ask anybody why or how
things had happened. They had happened, and that was all in all to him. But now he was ready
to make all necessary inquiries, and he began with Inkspot. Maka being interpreter, the examination
was easily carried on.

The story of the negro was a very interesting one. He told of his adventures on shore, and
how kind the men had been to him until they went on board the Arato, and how then they treated
him as if he had been a dog--how he had been made to do double duty in all sorts of disagreeable
work, and how, after they had seen the light on the beach, he had been put into the hold and
tied hand and foot. While down there in the dark he had heard the firing on shore, and, after
a long while, the firing from the deck, and other shots near by. All this had so excited him
that he managed to get one hand loose from his cords, and then had speedily unfastened the
rest, and had quietly crept to a hatchway, where he could watch what was going on without showing
himself. He had seen the two men on deck, ready to fire on the approaching boat. He had recognized
Captain Horn and the people of the Miranda in the boat. And then, when there was but one man
left on deck, and the boat was afraid to come nearer, he had rushed up behind him and tumbled
him overboard.

One thing only did Inkspot omit: he did not say that it was Mr. Burke's example that had prompted
him to go ashore for refreshments. When the story had been told, and all questions asked and
answered, the captain turned to Burke and Shirley and asked their opinions upon the case. Shirley
was in favor of putting the negro in irons. He had deserted them, and had nearly cost them
their lives by the stories he had told on shore. Burke, to the captain's surprise,--for the
second mate generally dealt severely with nautical transgressions,--was in favor of clemency.

"To be sure," said he, "the black scoundrel did get us into trouble. But then, don't you see,
he has got us out of it. If these beastly fellows hadn't been led by him to come after our
money, we would not have had this schooner, and how we should have got those bags away without
her,--to say nothing of ourselves,--is more than I can fathom. It is my belief that no craft
ever comes within twenty miles of this coast, if she can help it. So I vote for letting him
off. He didn't intend to do us any harm, and he didn't intend to do us any good, but it seems
to me that the good he did do rises higher above the water-line than the harm. So I say, let
him off. We need another hand about as much as we need anything."

"And so say I," said the captain. "Maka, you can tell him we forgive him, because we believe
that he is really a good fellow and didn't intend any harm, and he can turn in with the rest
of you on his old watch. And now bring up that Chilian fellow."

The prisoner, who gave his name as Anton Garta, was now examined in regard to the schooner
Arato, her extraordinary cruise, and the people who had devised it. Garta was a fellow of moderate
intelligence, and still very much frightened, and having little wit with which to concoct lies,
and no reason for telling them, he answered the questions put to him as correctly as his knowledge
permitted. He said that about two months before he had been one of the crew of the Arato, and
Manuel Cardatas was second mate, and he had been very glad to join her on this last cruise
because he was out of a job. He thought she was going to Callao for a cargo, and so did the
rest of the crew. They did not even know there were guns on board until they were out at sea.
Then, when they had turned southward, their captain and Señor Nunez told them that they were
going in pursuit of a treasure ship commanded by a Yankee captain, who had run away with ever
so much money from California, and that they were sure to overhaul this ship, and that they
would all be rich.

The guns were given to them, and they had had some practice with them, and thought that Cardatas
intended, should the Miranda be overhauled, to run alongside of her as near as was safe, and
begin operations by shooting everybody that could be seen on deck. He was not sure that this
was his plan, but they all had thought it was. After the storm the men had become dissatisfied,
and said they did not believe it was possible to overhaul any vessel after so much delay, and
when they had gone so far out of their course; and Señor Nunez, who had hired the vessel, was
in doubt as to whether it would be of any use to continue the cruise. But when Cardatas had
talked to him, Señor Nunez had come among them and promised them good rewards, whether they
sighted their prize or not, if they would work faithfully for ten days more. The men had agreed
to do this, but when they had seen the light on shore, they had made an agreement among themselves
that, if this should be nothing but a fire built by savages or shipwrecked people of no account,
they would not work the schooner any farther south. They would put Cardatas and Nunez in irons,
if necessary, and take the Arato back to Valparaiso. There were men among them who could navigate.
But when they got near enough to shore to see that the stranded vessel was the Miranda, there
was no more insubordination.

As for himself, Garta said he was a plain, common sailor, who went on board the Arato because
he wanted a job. If he had known the errand on which she was bound, he would never have approached
within a league of her. This he vowed, by all the saints. As to the ownership of the vessel
Garta could tell but little. He had heard that Cardatas had a share in her, and thought that
probably the other owners lived in Valparaiso, but he could give no positive information on
this subject. He said that every man of the boat's crew was in a state of wild excitement when
they saw that long pile of bags, which they knew must contain treasure of some sort, and it
was because of this state of mind, most likely, that Cardatas lost his temper and got himself
shot, and so opened the fight. Cardatas was a cunning fellow, and, if he had not been upset
by the sight of those bags, Garta believed that he would have regularly besieged Captain Horn's
party, and must have overcome them in the end. He was anxious to have the captain believe that,
when he had said there were only two men on board, he had totally forgotten the negro, who
had been left below.

When Garta's examination had been finished, the captain sent him forward, and then repeated
his story in brief to Shirley and Burke, for, as the prisoner had spoken in Spanish, they had
understood but little of it.

"I don't see that it makes much difference," said Burke, "as to what his story is. We've got
to get rid of him in some way. We don't want to carry him about with us. We might leave him
here, with a lot of grub and a tent. That would be all he deserves."

"I should put him in irons, to begin with," said Shirley, "and then we can consider what to
do with him when we have time."

"I shall not leave him on shore," said the captain, "for that would simply be condemning him
to starvation; and as for putting him in irons, that would deprive us of an able seaman. I
suppose, if we took him to France, he would have to be sent to Chili for trial, and that would
be of no use, unless we went there as witnesses. It is a puzzling question to know what to
do with him."

"It is that," said Burke, "and it is a great pity he wasn't shot with the others."

"Well," said the captain, "we've got a lot of work before us, and we want hands, so I think
it will be best to let him turn in with the rest, and make him pay for his passage, wherever
we take him. The worst he can do is to desert, and if he does that, he will settle his own
business, and we shall have no more trouble with him."

"I don't like him," said Shirley. "I don't think we ought to have such a fellow going about
freely on board."

"I am not afraid he will hurt any of us," said the captain, "and I am sure he will not corrupt
the negroes. They hate him. It is easy to see that."

"Yes," said Burke, with a laugh. "They think he is a Rackbird, and it is just as well to let
them keep on thinking so."

"Perhaps he is," thought the captain, but he did not speak this thought aloud.

CHAPTER XLII

INKSPOT HAS A DREAM OF HEAVEN

The next day the work of loading the Arato with the bags of gold was begun, and it was a much
slower and more difficult business than the unloading of the Miranda, for the schooner lay
much farther out from the beach. But there were two men more than on the former occasion, and
the captain did not push the work. There was no need now for extraordinary haste, and although
they all labored steadily, regular hours of work and rest were adhered to. The men had carried
so many bags filled with hard and uneven lumps that the shoulders of some of them were tender,
and they had to use cushions of canvas under their loads. But the boats went backward and forward,
and the bags were hoisted on board and lowered into the hold, and the wall of gold grew smaller
and smaller.

"Captain," said Burke, one day, as they were standing by a pile of bags waiting for the boat
to come ashore, "do you think it is worth it! By George! we have loaded and unloaded these
blessed bags all down the western coast of South America, and if we've got to unload and load
them all up the east coast, I say, let's take what we really need, and leave the rest."

"I've been at the business a good deal longer than you have," said the captain, "and I'm not
tired of it yet. When I took away my first cargo, you must remember that I carried each bag
on my own shoulders, and it took me more than a month to do it, and even all that is only a
drop in the bucket compared to what most men who call themselves rich have to do before they
make their money."

"All right," said Burke, "I'll stop growling. But look here, captain. How much do you suppose
one of these bags is worth, and how many are there in all? I don't want to be inquisitive,
but it would be a sort of comfort to know."

"No, it wouldn't," said the captain, quickly. "It would be anything else but a comfort. I know
how many bags there are, but as to what they are worth, I don't know, and I don't want to know.
I once set about calculating it, but I didn't get very far with the figures. I need all my
wits to get through with this business, and I don't think anything would be more likely to
scatter them than calculating what this gold is worth. It would be a good deal better for you--and
for me, too--to consider, as Shirley does, that these bags are all filled with good, clean,
anthracite coal. That won't keep us from sleeping."

"Shirley be hanged!" said Burke, "He and you may be able to do that, but I can't. I've got
a pretty strong mind, and if you were to tell me that when we get to port, and you discharge
this crew, I can walk off with all the gold eagles or twenty-franc pieces I can carry, I think
I could stand it without losing my mind."

"All right," said the captain, "If we get this vessel safely to France, I will give you a good
chance to try your nerves."

Day by day the work went on, and at last the Arato took the place of the Miranda as a modern Argo.

During the reëmbarkation of the treasure, the captain, as well as Shirley and Burke, had kept
a sharp eye on Garta. The two mates were afraid he might run away, but, had he done so, the
captain would not have regretted it very much. He would gladly have parted with one of the
bags in order to get rid of this encumbrance. But the prisoner had no idea of running away.
He knew that the bags were filled with treasure, but as he could now do nothing with any of
it that he might steal, he did not try to steal any. If he had thoughts of the kind, he knew
this was no time for dishonest operation. He had always been a hardworking sailor, with a good
appetite, and he worked hard now, and ate well.

The Miranda's stores had not been injured by water, and when they had been put on board, the
Arato was well fitted out for a long voyage. Leaving the Miranda on the beach, with nothing
in her of much value, the Arato, which had cleared for Callao, and afterwards set out on a
wild piratical cruise, now made a third start, and set sail for a voyage to France. They had
good weather and tolerably fair winds, and before they entered the Straits of Magellan the
captain had formulated a plan for the disposition of Garta.

"I don't know anything better to do with him," said he to Shirley and Burke, "than to put him
ashore at the Falkland Islands. We don't want to take him to France, for we would not know
what to do with him after we got him there, and, as likely as not, he would swear a lot of
lies against us as soon as he got on shore. We can run within a league of Stanley harbor, and
then, if the weather is good enough, we can put him in a boat, with something to eat and drink,
and let him row himself into port. We can give him money enough to support himself until he
can procure work."

"But suppose there is a man-of-war in there," said Shirley, "he might say things that would
send her after us. He might not know where to say we got our treasure, but he could say we
had stolen a Chilian vessel."

"I had thought of that," said the captain, "but nothing such a vagrant as he is could say ought
to give any cruiser the right to interfere with us when we are sailing under the American flag.
And when I go to France, nobody shall say that I stole a vessel, for, if the owners of the
Arato can be found, they shall be well paid for what use we have made of their schooner. I'll
send her back to Valparaiso and let her be claimed."

"It is a ticklish business," said Burke, "but I don't know what else can be done. It is a great
pity I didn't know he was going to surrender when we had that fight."

They had been in the Straits less than a week when Inkspot dreamed he was in heaven. His ecstatic
visions became so strong and vivid that they awakened him, when he was not long in discovering
the cause which had produced them. The dimly lighted and quiet forecastle was permeated by
a delightful smell of spirituous liquor. Turning his eyes from right to left, in his endeavors
to understand this unusual odor of luxury, Inkspot perceived the man Garta standing on the
other side of the forecastle, with a bottle in one hand and a cork in the other, and, as he
looked, Garta raised the bottle to his mouth, threw back his head, and drank.

Inkspot greatly disliked this man. He had been one of the fellows who had ill-treated him when
the Arato sailed under Cardatas, and he fully agreed with his fellow-blacks that the scoundrel
should have been shot. But now his feelings began to undergo a change. A man with a bottle
of spirits might prove to be an angel of mercy, a being of beneficence, and if he would share
with a craving fellow-being his rare good fortune, why should not all feelings of disapprobation
be set aside? Inkspot could see no reason why they should not be, and softly slipping from
his hammock, he approached Garta.

"Give me. Give me, just little," he whispered.

Garta turned with a half-suppressed oath, and seeing who the suppliant was, he seized the bottle
in his left hand, and with his right struck poor Inkspot a blow in the face. Without a word
the negro stepped back, and then Garta put the bottle into a high, narrow opening in the side
of the forecastle, and closed a little door upon it, which fastened with a snap. This little
locker, just large enough to hold one bottle, had been made by one of the former crew of the
Arato solely for the purpose of concealing spirits, and was very ingeniously contrived. Its
door was a portion of the side of the forecastle, and a keyhole was concealed behind a removable
knot. Garta had not opened the locker before, for the reason that he had been unable to find
the key. He knew it had been concealed in the forecastle, but it had taken him a long time
to find it. Now his secret was discovered, and he was enraged. Going over to the hammock, where
Inkspot had again ensconced himself, he leaned over the negro and whispered:

"If you ever say a word of that bottle to anybody, I'll put a knife into you! No matter what
they do to me, I'll settle with you."

Inkspot did not understand all this, but he knew it was a threat, and he well understood the
language of a blow in the face. After a while he went to sleep, but, if he smelt again the
odor of the contents of the bottle, he had no more heavenly dreams.

The next day Captain Horn found himself off the convict settlement of Punta Arenas, belonging
to the Chilian government. This was the first port he had approached since he had taken command
of the Arato, but he felt no desire nor need to touch at it. In fact, the vicinity of Punta
Arenas seemed of no importance whatever, until Shirley came to him and reported that the man
Garta was nowhere to be found. Captain Horn immediately ordered a search and inquiry to be
made, but no traces of the prisoner could be discovered, nor could anybody tell anything about
him. Burke and Inkspot had been on watch with him from four to eight, but they could give no
information whatever concerning him. No splash nor cries for help had been heard, so that he
could not have fallen overboard, and it was generally believed that, when he knew himself to
be in the vicinity of a settlement, he had quietly slipped into the water and had swum for
Punta Arenas. Burke suggested that most likely he had formerly been a resident of the place,
and liked it better than being taken off to unknown regions in the schooner. And Shirley considered
this very probable, for he said the man had always looked like a convict to him.

At all events, Garta was gone, and there was no one to say how long he had been gone. So, under
full sail, the Arato went on her way. It was a relief to get rid of the prisoner, and the only
harm which could come of his disappearance was that he might report that his ship had been
stolen by the men who were sailing her, and that some sort of a vessel might be sent in pursuit
of the Arato, and, if this should be the case, the situation would be awkward. But days passed
on, the schooner sailed out of the Straits, and no vessel was seen pursuing her.

To the northeast Captain Horn set his course. He would not stop at Rio Janeiro, for the Arato
had no papers for that port. He would not lie to off Stanley harbor, for he had now nobody
to send ashore. But he would sail boldly for France, where he would make no pretensions that
his auriferous cargo was merely ballast. He was known at Marseilles. He had business relations
with bankers in Paris. He was a Californian and an American citizen, and he would merely be
bringing to France a vessel freighted with gold, which, by the aid of his financial advisers,
would be legitimately cared for and disposed of.

One night, before the Arato reached the Falkland Islands, Maka, who was on watch, heard a queer
sound in the forecastle, and looking down the companionway, he saw, by the dim light of the
swinging lantern, a man with a hatchet, endeavoring to force the blade of it into the side
of the vessel. Maka quickly perceived that the man was Inkspot, and as he could not imagine
what he was doing, he quietly watched him. Inkspot worked with as little noise as possible,
but he was evidently bent upon forcing off one of the boards on the side of the forecastle.
At first Maka thought that his fellow-African was trying to sink the ship by opening a seam,
but he soon realized that this notion was absurd, and so he let Inkspot go on, being very curious
to know what he was doing. In a few minutes he knew. With a slight noise, not enough to waken
a sound sleeper, a little door flew open, and almost immediately Inkspot held a bottle in his hand.

Maka slipped swiftly and softly to the side of the big negro, but he was not quick enough.
Inkspot had the neck of the bottle in his mouth and the bottom raised high in the air. But,
before Maka could seize him by the arm, the bottle had come down from its elevated position,
and a doleful expression crept over the face of Inkspot. There had been scarcely a teaspoonful
of liquor left in the bottle. Inkspot looked at Maka, and Maka looked at him. In an African
whisper, the former now ordered the disappointed negro to put the bottle back, to shut up the
locker, and then to get into his hammock and go to sleep as quickly as he could, for if Mr.
Shirley, who was on watch on deck, found out what he had been doing, Inkspot would wish he
had never been born.

The next day, when they had an opportunity for an African conversation, Inkspot assured his
countryman that he had discovered the little locker by smelling the whiskey through the boards,
and that, having no key, he had determined to force it open with a hatchet. Maka could not
help thinking that Inkspot had a wonderful nose for an empty bottle, and could scarcely restrain
from a shudder at the thought of what might have happened had the bottle been full. But he
did not report the occurrence. Inkspot was a fellow-African, and he had barely escaped punishment
for his former misdeed. It would be better to keep his mouth shut, and he did.

Against the north winds, before the south winds, and on the winds from the east and the west,
through fair weather and through foul, the Arato sailed up the South Atlantic. It was a long,
long voyage, but the schooner was skilfully navigated and sailed well. Sometimes she sighted
great merchant-steamers plying between Europe and South America, freighted with rich cargoes,
and proudly steaming away from the little schooner, whose dark-green hull could scarcely be
distinguished from the color of the waves. And why should not the captain of this humble little
vessel sometimes have said to himself, as he passed a big three-master or a steamer:

"What would they think if they knew that, if I chose to do it, I could buy every ship, and
its cargo, that I shall meet between here and Gibraltar!"

"Captain," said Shirley, one day, "what do you think about the right and wrong of this?"

"What do you mean?" asked Captain Horn.

"I mean," replied Shirley, "taking away the gold we have on board. We've had pretty easy times
lately, and I've been doing a good deal of thinking, and sometimes I have wondered where we
got the right to clap all this treasure into bags and sail away with it."

"So you have stopped thinking the bags are all filled with anthracite coal," said the captain.

"Yes," said the other. "We are getting on toward the end of this voyage, and it is about time
to give up that fancy. I always imagine, when I am near the end of a voyage, what I am going
to do when I go ashore, and if I have any real right to some of the gold down under our decks,
I shall do something very different from anything I ever did before."

"I hope you don't mean going on a spree," said Burke, who was standing near. "That would be
something entirely different."

"I thought," said the captain, "that you both understood this business, but I don't mind going
over it again. There is no doubt in my mind that this gold originally belonged to the Incas,
who then owned Peru, and they put it into that mound to keep it from the Spaniards, whose descendants
now own Peru, and who rule it without much regard to the descendants of the ancient Peruvians.
Now, when I discovered the gold, and began to have an idea of how valuable the find was, I
knew that the first thing to do was to get it out of that place and away from the country.
Whatever is to be done in the way of fair play and fair division must be done somewhere else,
and not there. If I had informed the government of what I had found, this gold would have gone
directly into the hands of the descendants of the people from whom its original owners did
their very best to keep it, and nobody else would have had a dollar's worth of it. If we had
stood up for our rights to a reward for finding it, ten to one we would all have been clapped
into prison."

"I suppose by that," said Burke, "that you looked upon the stone mound in the cave as a sort
of will left by those old Peruvians, and you made yourself an executor to carry out the intentions
of the testators, as the lawyers say."

"But we can set it down as dead certain," interrupted Shirley, "that the testators didn't mean
us to have it."

"No," said the captain, "nor do I mean that we shall have all of it. I intend to have the question
of the ownership of this gold decided by people who are able and competent to decide such a
question, and who will be fair and honest to all parties. But whatever is agreed upon, and
whatever is done with the treasure, I intend to charge a good price--a price which shall bear
a handsome proportion to the value of the gold--for my services, and all our services. Some
of this charge I have already taken, and I intend to have a great deal more. We have worked
hard and risked much to get this treasure--"

"Yes," thought Burke, as he remembered the trap at the bottom of the mound. "You risked a great
deal more than you ever supposed you did."

"And we are bound to be well paid for it," continued the captain. "No matter where this gold
goes, I shall have a good share of it, and this I am going to divide among our party, according
to a fair scale. How does that strike you, Shirley?"

"If the business is going to be conducted as you say, captain," replied the first mate, "I
say it will be all fair and square, and I needn't bother my head with any more doubts about
it. But there is one thing I wish you would tell me: how much do you think I will be likely
to get out of this cargo, when you divide?"

"Mr. Shirley," said the captain, "when I give you your share of this cargo, you can have about
four bags of anthracite coal, weighing a little over one hundred pounds, which, at the rate
of six dollars a ton, would bring you between thirty and forty cents. Will that satisfy you?
Of course, this is only a rough guess at a division, but I want to see how it falls in with
your ideas."

Shirley laughed. "I guess you're right, captain," said he. "It will be better for me to keep
on thinking we are carrying coal. That won't bother my head."

"That's so," said Burke. "Your brain can't stand that sort of badger. I'd hate to go ashore
with you at Marseilles with your pocket full and your skull empty. As for me, I can stand it
first-rate. I have already built two houses on Cape Cod,--in my head, of course,--and I'll
be hanged if I know which one I am going to live in and which one I am going to put my mother in."

CHAPTER XLIII

MOK AS A VOCALIST

It would have been very comfortable to the mind of Edna, during her waiting days in Paris,
had she known there was a letter to her from Captain Horn, in a cottage in the town of Sidmouth,
on the south coast of Devonshire. Had she known this, she would have chartered French trains,
Channel steamers, English trains, flies, anything and everything which would have taken her
the quickest to the little town of Sidmouth. Had she known that he had written to her the first
chance he had had, all her doubts and perplexities would have vanished in an instant. Had she
read the letter, she might have been pained to find that it was not such a letter as she would
wish to have, and she might have grieved that it might still be a long time before she could
expect to hear from him again, or to see him, but she would have waited--have waited patiently,
without any doubts or perplexities.

This letter, with a silver coin,--much more than enough to pay any possible postage,--had been
handed by Shirley to the first mate of the British steamer, in the harbor of Valparaiso, and
that officer had given it to a seaman, who was going on shore, with directions to take it to
the post-office, and pay for the postage out of the silver coin, and whatever change there
might be, he should keep it for his trouble. On the way to the post-office, this sailor stopped
to refresh himself, and meeting with a fellow-mariner in the place of refreshment, he refreshed
him also. And by the time the two had refreshed themselves to their satisfaction, there was
not much left of the silver coin--not enough to pay the necessary postage to France.

"But," said the seaman to himself, "it doesn't matter a bit. We are bound for Liverpool, and
I'll take the letter there myself, and then I'll send it over to Paris for tuppence ha'penny,
which I will have then, and haven't now. And I bet another tuppence that it will go sooner
than if I posted it here, for it may be a month before a mail-steamer leaves the other side
of this beastly continent. Anyway, I'm doing the best I can."

He put the letter in the pocket of his pea-jacket, and the bottom of that pocket being ripped,
the letter went down between the outside cloth and the lining of the pea-jacket to the very
bottom of the garment, where it remained until the aforesaid seaman had reached England, and
had gone down to see his family, who lived in the cottage in Sidmouth. And there he had hung
up his pea-jacket on a nail, in a little room next to the kitchen, and there his mother had
found it, and sewed on two buttons, and sewed up the rips in the bottoms of two pockets. Shortly
after this, the sailor, happening to pass a post-office box, remembered the letter he had brought
to England. He went to his pea-jacket and searched it, but could find no letter. He must have
lost it--he hoped after he had reached England, and no doubt whoever found it would put a tuppence
ha'penny stamp on it and stick it into a box. Anyway, he had done all he could.

One pleasant spring evening, the negro Mok sat behind a table in the well-known beer-shop called
the "Black Cat." He had before him a half-emptied beer-glass, and in front of him was a pile
of three small white dishes. These signified that Mok had had three glasses of beer, and when
he should finish the one in his hand, and should order another, the waiter would bring with
it another little white plate, which he would put on the table, on the pile already there,
and which would signify that the African gentleman must pay for four glasses of beer.

Mok was enjoying himself very much. It was not often that he had such an opportunity to sample
the delights of Paris. His young master, Ralph, had given him strict orders never to go out
at night, or in his leisure hours, unless accompanied by Cheditafa. The latter was an extremely
important and sedate personage. The combined dignity of a butler and a clergyman were more
than ever evident in his person, and he was a painful drawback to the more volatile Mok. Mok
had very fine clothes, which it rejoiced him to display. He had a fine appetite for everything
fit to eat and drink. He had money in his pockets, and it delighted him to see people and to
see things, although he might not know who they were or what they were. He knew nothing of
French, and his power of expressing himself in English had not progressed very far. But on
this evening, in the jolly precincts of the Black Cat, he did not care whether the people used
language or not. He did not care what they did, so that he could sit there and enjoy himself.
When he wanted more beer, the waiter understood him, and that was enough.

The jet-black negro, gorgeously arrayed in the livery Ralph had chosen for him, and with his
teeth and eyeballs whiter than the pile of plates before him, was an object of great interest
to the company in the beer-shop. They talked to him, and although he did not understand them,
or answer them, they knew he was enjoying himself. And when the landlord rang a big bell, and
a pale young man, wearing a high hat, and sitting at a table opposite him, threw into his face
an expression of exalted melancholy, and sang a high-pitched song, Mok showed how he appreciated
the performance by thumping more vigorously on the table than any of the other people who applauded
the singer.

Again and again the big bell was rung, and there were other songs and choruses, and then the
company turned toward Mok and called on him to sing. He did not understand them, but he laughed
and pounded his fist upon the table. But when the landlord came down to his table, and rang
the bell in front of him, that sent an informing idea into the African head. He had noticed
that every time the bell had been rung, somebody had sung, and now he knew what was wanted
of him. He had had four glasses of beer, and he was an obliging fellow, so he nodded his head
violently, and everybody stopped doing what they had been doing, and prepared to listen.

Mok's repertoire of songs could not be expected to be large. In fact, he only knew one musical
composition, and that was an African hymn which Cheditafa had taught him. This he now proceeded
to execute. He threw back his head, as some of the others had done, and emitted a succession
of grunts, groans, yelps, barks, squeaks, yells, and rattles which utterly electrified the
audience. Then, as if his breath filled his whole body, and quivering and shaking like an angry
squirrel when it chatters and barks, Mok sang louder and more wildly, until the audience, unable
to restrain themselves, burst into laughter, and applauded with canes, sticks, and fists. But
Mok kept on. He had never imagined he could sing so well. There was only one person in that
brasserie who did not applaud the African hymn, but no one paid so much attention to it as
this man, who had entered the Black Cat just as Mok had begun.

He was a person of medium size, with a heavy mustache, and a face darkened by a beard of several
days' growth. He was rather roughly dressed, and wore a soft felt hat. He was a Rackbird.

This man had formerly belonged to the band of desperadoes which had been swept away by a sudden
flood on the coast of Peru. He had accompanied his comrades on the last marauding expedition
previous to that remarkable accident, but he had not returned with them. He had devised a little
scheme of his own, which had detained him longer than he had expected, and he was not ready
to go back with them. It would have been difficult for him to reach the camp by himself, and,
after what he had done, he did not very much desire to go, there as he would probably have
been shot as a deserter; for Captain Raminez was a savage fellow, and more than willing to
punish transgressions against his orders. This deserter, Banker by name, was an American, who
had been a gold-digger, a gambler, a rough, and a dead shot in California, and he was very
well able to take care of himself in any part of the world.

He had made his way up to Panama, and had stayed there as long as it was safe for him to do
so, and had eventually reached Paris. He did not like this city half so well as he liked London,
but in the latter city he happened to be wanted, and he was not wanted in Paris. It was generally
the case that he stayed where he was not wanted.

Of course, Banker knew nothing of the destruction of his band, and the fact that he had not
heard from them since he left them gave him not the slightest regret. But what did astonish
him beyond bounds was to sit at a table in the Black Cat, in Paris, and see before him, dressed
like the valet of a Spanish grandee, a coal-black negro who had once been his especial and
particular slave and drudge, a fellow whom he had kicked and beaten and sworn at, and whom
he no doubt would have shot had he stayed much longer with his lawless companions, the Rackbirds.
There was no mistaking this black man. He well remembered his face, and even the tones of his
voice. He had never heard him sing, but he had heard him howl, and it seemed almost impossible
that he should meet him in Paris. And yet, he was sure that the man who was bellowing and bawling
to the delight of the guests of the Black Cat was one of the African wretches who had been
entrapped and enslaved by the Rackbirds.

But if Banker had been astonished by Mok, he was utterly amazed and confounded when, some five
minutes later, the door of the brasserie was suddenly opened, and another of the slaves of
the Rackbirds, with whose face he was also perfectly familiar, hurriedly entered.

Cheditafa, who had been sent on an errand that evening, had missed Mok on his return. Ralph
was away in Brussels with the professor, so that his valet, having most of his time on his
hands, had thought to take a holiday during Cheditafa's absence, and had slipped off to the
Black Cat, whose pleasures he had surreptitiously enjoyed before, but never to such an extent
as on this occasion. Cheditafa knew he had been there, and when he started out to look for
him, it was to the Black Cat that he went first.

Before he had quite reached the door, Cheditafa had been shocked and angered to hear his favorite
hymn sung in a beer-shop by that reprobate and incompetent Mok, and he had rushed in, and in
a minute seized the blatant vocalist by the collar, and ordered him instantly to shut his mouth
and pay his reckoning. Then, in spite of the shouts of disapprobation which arose on every
side, he led away the negro as if he had been a captured dog with his tail between his legs.

Mok could easily have thrown Cheditafa across the street, but his respect and reverence for
his elder and superior were so great that he obeyed his commands without a word of remonstrance.

Now up sprang Banker, who was in such a hurry to go that he forgot to pay for his beer, and
when he performed this duty, after having been abruptly reminded of it by a waiter, he was
almost too late to follow the two black men, but not quite too late. He was an adept in the
tracking of his fellow-beings, and it was not long before he was quietly following Mok and
Cheditafa, keeping at some distance behind them, but never allowing them to get out of his sight.

In the course of a moderate walk he saw them enter the Hotel Grenade. This satisfied the wandering
Rackbird. If the negroes went into that hotel at that time of night, they must live there,
and he could suspend operations until morning.

CHAPTER XLIV

MR. BANKER'S SPECULATION

That night Banker was greatly disturbed by surmises and conjectures concerning the presence
of the two negroes in the French capital. He knew Cheditafa quite as well as he knew Mok, and
it was impossible that he should be mistaken. It is seldom that any one sees a native African
in Paris, and he was positive that the men he had seen, dressed in expensive garments, enjoying
themselves like gentlemen of leisure, and living at a grand hotel, were the same negroes he
had last seen in rags and shreds, lodged in a cave in the side of a precipice, toiling and
shuddering under the commands of a set of desperadoes on a desert coast in South America. There
was only one way in which he could explain matters, and that was that the band had had some
great success, and that one or more of its members had come to Paris, and had brought the two
negroes with them as servants. But of one thing he had no doubts, and that was that he would
follow up the case. He had met with no successes of late, but if any of his former comrades
had, he wanted to meet those dear old friends. In Paris he was not afraid of anything they
might say about his desertion.

Very early in the morning Banker was in front of the Hotel Grenade. He did not loiter there;
he did not wander up and down like a vagrant, or stand about like a spy. It was part of his
business to be able to be present in various places almost at the same time, and not to attract
notice in any of them. It was not until after ten o'clock that he saw anything worthy of his
observation, and then a carriage drove up to the front entrance, and on the seat beside the
driver sat Cheditafa, erect, solemn, and respectable. Presently the negro got down and opened
the door of the carriage. In a few moments a lady, a beautiful lady, handsomely dressed, came
out of the hotel and entered the carriage. Then Cheditafa shut the door and got up beside the
driver again. It was a fine thing to have such a footman as this one, so utterly different
from the ordinary groom or footman, so extremely distingué!

As the carriage rolled off, Banker walked after it, but not in such a way as to attract attention,
and then he entered a cab and told the cocher to drive to the Bon Marché. Of course, he did
not know where the lady was going to, but at present she was driving in the direction of that
celebrated mart, and he kept his eye upon her carriage, and if she had turned out of the Boulevard
and away from the Seine, he would have ordered his driver to turn also and go somewhere else.
He did not dare to tell the man to follow the carriage. He was shaved, and his clothes had
been put in as good order as possible, but he knew that he did not look like a man respectable
enough to give such an order without exciting suspicion.

But the carriage did go to the Bon Marché, and there also went the cab, the two vehicles arriving
at almost the same time. Banker paid his fare with great promptness, and was on the pavement
in time to see the handsomely dressed lady descend and enter the establishment. As she went
in, he took one look at the back of her bonnet. It had a little green feather in it. Then he
turned quickly upon Cheditafa, who had shut the carriage door and was going around behind it
in order to get up on the other side.

"Look here," whispered Banker, seizing the clerical butler by the shoulder, "who is that lady?
Quick, or I'll put a knife in you."

At these words Cheditafa's heart almost stopped beating, and as he quickly turned he saw that
he looked into the face of a man, an awfully wicked man, who had once helped to grind the soul
out of him, in that dreadful cave by the sea. The poor negro was so frightened that he scarcely
knew whether he was in Paris or Peru.

"Who is she?" whispered again the dreadful Rackbird.

"Come, come!" shouted the coachman from his seat, "we must move on."

"Quick! Who is she?" hissed Banker.

"She?" replied the quaking negro. "She is the captain's wife. She is--" But he could say no
more, for a policeman was ordering the carriage to move on, for it stopped the way, and the
coachman was calling impatiently. Banker could not afford to meet a policeman. He released
his hold on Cheditafa and retired unnoticed. An instant afterward he entered the Bon Marché.

Cheditafa climbed up to the side of the driver, but he missed his foothold several times, and
came near falling to the ground. In all Paris there was no footman on a carriage who looked
less upright, less sedate, and less respectable than this poor, frightened black man.

Through the corridors and passageways of the vast establishment went Banker. But he did not
have to go far. He saw at a counter a little green feather in the back of a bonnet. Quietly
he approached that counter, and no sooner had the attendant turned aside to get something that
had been asked for than Banker stepped close to the side of the lady, and leaning forward,
said in a very low but polite voice:

"I am so glad to find the captain's wife. I have been looking for her."

He was almost certain, from her appearance, that she was an American, and so he spoke in English.

Edna turned with a start. She saw beside her a man with his hat off, a rough-looking man, but
a polite one, and a man who looked like a sailor.

"The captain!" she stammered. "Have you--do you bring me anything! A letter?"

"Yes, madam," said he. "I have a letter and a message for you."

"Give them to me quickly!" said she, her face burning.

"I cannot," he said. "I cannot give them to you here. I have much to say to you, and much to
tell you, and I was ordered to say it in private."

Edna was astounded. Her heart sank. Captain Horn must be in trouble, else why such secrecy?
But she must know everything, and quickly. Where could she meet the man? He divined her thought.

"The Gardens of the Tuileries," said he. "Go there now, please. I will meet you, no matter
in what part of it you are." And so saying, he slipped away unnoticed.

When the salesman came to her, Edna did not remember what she had asked to see, but whatever
he brought she did not want, and going out, she had her carriage called, and ordered her coachman
to take her to the Gardens of the Tuileries. She was so excited that she did not wait for Cheditafa
to get down, but opened the door herself, and stepped in quickly, even before the porter of
the establishment could attend to her.

When she reached the Gardens, and Cheditafa opened the carriage door for her, she thought he
must have a fit of chills and fever. But she had no time to consider this, and merely told
him that she was going to walk in the Gardens, and the carriage must wait.

It was some time before Edna met the man with whom she had made this appointment. He had seen
her alight, and although he did not lose sight of her, he kept away from her, and let her walk
on until she was entirely out of sight of the carriage. As soon as Edna perceived Banker, she
walked directly toward him. She had endeavored to calm herself, but he could see that she was
much agitated.

"How in the devil's name," he thought to himself, "did Raminez ever come to marry such a woman
as this? She's fit for a queen. But they say he used to be a great swell in Spain before he
got into trouble, and I expect he's put on his old airs again, and an American lady will marry
anybody that's a foreign swell. And how neatly she played into my hand! She let me know right
away that she wanted a letter, which means, of course, that Raminez is not with her."

"Give me the letter, if you please," said Edna.

"Madam," said Banker, with a bow, "I told you I had a letter and a message. I must deliver
the message first."

"Then be quick with it," said she.

"I will," said Banker. "Our captain has had great success lately, you know, but he is obliged
to keep a little in the background for the present, as you will see by your letter, and as
it is a very particular letter, indeed, he ordered me to bring it to you."

Edna's heart sank. "What has happened?" said she. "Why--"

"Oh, you will find all that in the letter," said Banker. "The captain has written out everything,
full and clear. He told me so himself. But I must get through with my message. It is not from
him. It is from me. As I just said, he ordered me to bring you this letter, and it was a hard
thing to do, and a risky thing to do. But I undertook the job of giving it to you, in private,
without anybody's knowing you had received it."

"What!" exclaimed Edna. "Nobody to know!"

"Oh, that is all explained," said he, hurriedly. "I can't touch on that. My affair is this:
The captain sent me with the letter, and I have been to a lot of trouble to get it to you.
Now, he is not going to pay me for all this,--if he thanks me, it will be more than I expect,--and
I am going to be perfectly open and honest with you, and say that as the captain won't pay
me, I expect you to do it; or, putting it in another way, before I hand you the letter I brought
you, I want you to make me a handsome present."

"You rascal!" exclaimed Edna. "How dare you impose on me in this way?"

It humiliated and mortified her to think that the captain was obliged to resort to such a messenger
as this. But all sorts of men become sailors, and although her pride revolted against the attempted
imposition, the man had a letter written to her by Captain Horn, and she must have it.

"How much do you want?" said she.

"I don't mind your calling me names," said Banker. "The captain has made a grand stroke, you
know, and everything about you is very fine, while I haven't three francs to jingle together.
I want one thousand dollars."

"Five thousand francs!" exclaimed Edna. "Absurd! I have not that much money with me. I haven't
but a hundred francs, but that ought to satisfy you."

"Oh, no," said Banker, "not at all. But don't trouble yourself. You have not the money, and
I have not the letter. The letter is in my lodgings. I was not fool enough to bring it with
me, and have you call a policeman to arrest me, and take it for nothing. But if you will be
here in two hours, with five thousand francs, and will promise me, upon your honor, that you
will bring no one with you, and will not call the police as soon as you have the letter, I
will be here with it."

"Yes," said Edna, "I promise."

She felt humbled and ashamed as she said it, but there was nothing else to do. In spite of
her feelings, in spite of the cost, she must have the letter.

"Very good," said Banker, and he departed.

Banker had no lodgings in particular, but he went to a brasserie and procured writing materials.
He had some letters in his pocket,--old, dirty letters which had been there for a long time,--and
one of them was from Raminez, which had been written when they were both in California, and
which Banker had kept because it contained an unguarded reference to Raminez's family in Spain,
and Banker had thought that the information might some day be useful to him. He was a good
penman, this Rackbird,--he was clever in many ways,--and he could imitate handwriting very
well, and he set himself to work to address an envelope in the handwriting of Raminez.

For some time he debated within himself as to what title he should use in addressing the lady.
Should it be "Señora" or "Madame"? He inclined to the first appellation, but afterwards thought
that as the letter was to go to her in France, and that as most likely she understood French,
and not Spanish, Raminez would probably address her in the former language, and therefore he
addressed the envelope to "Madame Raminez, by private hand." As to the writing of a letter
he did not trouble himself at all. He simply folded up two sheets of paper and put them in
the envelope, sealing it tightly. Now he was prepared, and after waiting until the proper time
had arrived he proceeded to the Gardens.

Edna drove to her hotel in great agitation. She was angry, she was astounded, she was almost
frightened. What could have happened to Captain Horn?

But two things encouraged and invigorated her: he was alive, and he had written to her. That
was everything, and she would banish all speculations and fears until she had read his letter,
and, until she had read it, she must keep the matter a secret--she must not let anybody imagine
that she had heard anything, or was about to hear anything. By good fortune, she had five thousand
francs in hand, and, with these in her pocket-book, she ordered her carriage half an hour before
the time appointed.

When Cheditafa heard the order, he was beset by a new consternation. He had been greatly troubled
when his mistress had gone to the Gardens the first time--not because there was anything strange
in that, for any lady might like to walk in such a beautiful place, but because she was alone,
and, with a Rackbird in Paris, his lady ought never to be alone. She had come out safely, and
he had breathed again, and now, now she wanted to go back! He must tell her about that Rackbird
man. He had been thinking and thinking about telling her all the way back to the hotel, but
he had feared to frighten her, and he had also been afraid to say that he had done what he
had been ordered not to do, and had told some one that she was the captain's wife. But when
he had reached the Gardens, he felt that he must say something--she must not walk about alone.
Accordingly, as Edna stepped out of the carriage, he began to speak to her, but, contrary to
her usual custom, she paid no attention to him, simply telling him to wait until she came back.

Edna was obliged to wander about for some time before Banker appeared.

"Now, then, madam," said he, "don't let us waste any time on this business. Have you the money
with you?"

"I have," said she. "But before I give it to you, I tell you that I do so under protest, and
that this conduct of yours shall be reported. I consider it a most shameful thing, and I do
not willingly pay you for what, no doubt, you have been sufficiently paid before."

"That's all very well," said Banker. "I don't mind a bit what you say to me. I don't mind your
being angry--in fact, I think you ought to be. In your place, I would be angry. But if you
will hand me the money--"

"Silence!" exclaimed Edna. "Not another word. Where is my letter?"

"Here it is," said Banker, drawing the letter he had prepared from his pocket, and holding
it in such a position that she could read the address. "You see, it is marked, 'by private
hand,' and this is the private hand that has brought it to you. Now, if you will count out
the money, and will hand it to me, I will give you the letter. That is perfectly fair, isn't it?"

Edna leaned forward and looked at it. When she saw the superscription, she was astonished,
and stepped back.

"What do you mean?" she exclaimed, and was about to angrily assert that she was not Madame
Raminez, when Banker interrupted her. The sight of her pocket-book within two feet of his hands
threw him into a state of avaricious excitement.

"I want you to give me that money, and take your letter!" he said savagely. "I can't stand
here fooling."

Edna firmly gripped her pocket-book, and was about to scream, but there was no occasion for
it. It had been simply impossible for Cheditafa to remain on the carriage and let her go into
the Gardens alone; he had followed her, and, behind some bushes, he had witnessed the interview
between her and Banker. He saw that the man was speaking roughly to her and threatening her.
Instantly he rushed toward the two, and at the very top of his voice he yelled:

"Rackbird! Rackbird! Police!"

Startled out of her senses, Edna stepped back, while Banker turned in fury toward the negro,
and clapped his hand to his hip pocket. But Cheditafa's cries had been heard, and down the
broad avenue Banker saw two gendarmes running toward him. It would not do to wait here and
meet them.

"You devil!" he cried, turning to Cheditafa, "I'll have your blood before you know it. As for
you, madam, you have broken your word! I'll be even with you!" And, with this, he dashed away.

When the gendarmes reached the spot, they waited to ask no questions, but immediately pursued
the flying Banker. Cheditafa was about to join in the chase, but Edna stopped him.

"Come to the carriage--quick!" she said. "I do not wish to stay here and talk to those policemen."
Hurrying out of the Gardens, she drove away.

The ex-Rackbird was a very hard man to catch. He had had so much experience in avoiding arrest
that his skill in that direction was generally more than equal to the skill, in the opposite
direction, of the ordinary detective. A good many people and two other gendarmes joined in
the chase after the man in the slouch-hat, who had disappeared like a mouse or a hare around
some shrubbery. It was not long before the pursuers were joined by a man in a white cap, who
asked several questions as to what they were running after, but he did not seem to take a sustained
interest in the matter, and soon dropped out and went about his business. He did not take his
slouch-hat out of his pocket, for he thought it would be better to continue to wear his white
cap for a time.

When the police were obliged to give up the pursuit, they went back to the Gardens to talk
to the lady and her servant who, in such strange words, had called to them, but they were not
there.

CHAPTER XLV

MENTAL TURMOILS

Edna went home faint, trembling, and her head in a whirl. When she had heard Cheditafa shout
"Rackbird," the thought flashed into her mind that the captain had been captured in the caves
by some of these brigands who had not been destroyed, that this was the cause of his silence,
and that he had written to her for help. But she considered that the letter could not be meant
for her, for under no circumstance would he have written to her as Madame Raminez--a name of
which she had never heard. This thought gave her a little comfort, but not much. As soon as
she reached the hotel, she had a private talk with Cheditafa, and what the negro told her reassured
her greatly.

He did not make a very consecutive tale, but he omitted nothing. He told her of his meeting
with the Rackbird in front of the Bon Marché, and he related every word of their short conversation.
He accounted for this Rackbird's existence by saying that he had not been at the camp when
the water came down. In answer to a question from Edna, he said that the captain of the band
was named Raminez, and that he had known him by that name when he first saw him in Panama,
though in the Rackbirds' camp he was called nothing but "the captain."

"And you only told him I was the captain's wife?" asked Edna. "You didn't say I was Captain
Horn's wife?"

Cheditafa tried his best to recollect, and he felt very sure that he had simply said she was
the captain's wife.

When his examination was finished, Cheditafa burst into an earnest appeal to his mistress not
to go out again alone while she stayed in Paris. He said that this Rackbird was an awfully
wicked man, and that he would kill all of them if he could. If the police caught him, he wanted
to go and tell them what a bad man he was. He did not believe the police had caught him. This
man could run like a wild hare, and policemen's legs were so stiff.

Edna assured him that she would take good care of herself, and, after enjoining upon him not
to say a word to any one of what had happened until she told him to, she sent him away.

When Edna sat in council with herself upon the events of the morning, she was able to make
some very fair conjectures as to what had happened. The scoundrel she met had supposed her
to be the wife of the Rackbirds' captain. Having seen and recognized Cheditafa, it was natural
enough for him to suppose that the negro had been brought to Paris by some of the band. All
this seemed to be good reasoning, and she insisted to herself over and over again that she
was quite sure that Captain Horn had nothing to do with the letter which the man had been intending
to give her.

That assurance relieved her of one great trouble, but there were others left. Here was a member
of a band of bloody ruffians,--and perhaps he had companions,--who had sworn vengeance against
her and her faithful servant, and Cheditafa's account of this man convinced her that he would
be ready enough to carry out such vengeance. She scarcely believed that the police had caught
him. For she had seen how he could run, and he had the start of them. But even if they had,
on what charge would he be held? He ought to be confined or deported, but she did not wish
to institute proceedings and give evidence. She did not know what might be asked, or said,
or done, if she deposed that the man was a member of the Rackbird band, and brought Cheditafa
as a witness.

In all this trouble and perplexity she had no one to whom she could turn for advice and assistance.
If she told Mrs. Cliff there was a Rackbird in Paris, and that he had been making threats,
she was sure that good lady would fly to her home in Plainton, Maine, where she would have
iron bars put to all the windows, and double locks to her doors.

In this great anxiety and terror--for, although Edna was a brave woman, it terrified her to
think that a wild and reckless villain, purple with rage, had shaken his fist at her, and vowed
he would kill Cheditafa--she could not think of a soul she could trust.

Her brother, fortunately, was still in Belgium with his tutor--fortunately, she thought, because,
if he knew of the affair, he would be certain to plunge himself into danger. And to whom could
she apply for help without telling too much of her story?

Mrs. Cliff felt there was something in the air. "You seem queer," said she. "You seem unusually
excited and ready to laugh. It isn't natural. And Cheditafa looks very ashy. I saw him just
a moment ago, and it seems to me a dose of quinine would do him good. It may be that it is
a sort of spring fever which is affecting people, and I am not sure but that something of the
kind is the matter with me. At any rate, there is that feeling in my spine and bones which
I always have when things are about to happen, or when there is malaria in the air."

Edna felt she must endeavor in all possible ways to prevent Mrs. Cliff from finding out that
the curses of a wicked Rackbird were in the air, but she herself shuddered when she thought
that one or more of the cruel desperadoes, whose coming they had dreaded and waited for through
that fearful night in the caves of Peru, were now to be dreaded and feared in the metropolis
of France. If Edna shuddered at this, what would Mrs. Cliff do if she knew it?

As for the man with the white cap, who had walked slowly away about his business that morning
when he grew tired of following the gendarmes, he was in a terrible state of mind. He silently
raged and stormed and gnashed his teeth, and swore under his breath most awfully and continuously.
Never had he known such cursed luck. One thousand dollars had been within two feet of his hand!
He knew that the lady had that sum in her pocket-book. He was sure she spoke truthfully. Her
very denunciation of him was a proof that she had not meant to deceive him. She hesitated a
moment, but she would have given him the money. In a few seconds more he would have made her
take the letter and give him the price she promised. But in those few seconds that Gehenna-born
baboon had rushed in and spoiled everything. He was not enraged against the lady, but he was
enraged against himself because he had not snatched the wallet before he ran, and he was infuriated
to a degree which resembled intoxication when he thought of Cheditafa and what he had done.
The more he thought, the more convinced he became that the lady had not brought the negro with
her to spy on him. If she had intended to break her word, she would have brought a gendarme,
not that ape.

No, the beastly blackamoor had done the business on his own account. He had sneaked after the
lady, and when he saw the gendarmes coming, he had thought it a good chance to pay off old scores.

"Pay off!" growled Banker, in a tone which made a shop-girl, who was walking in front of him
carrying a band-box, jump so violently that she dropped the box. "Pay off! I'll pay him!" And
for a quarter of a mile he vowed that the present purpose of his life was the annihilation,
the bloody annihilation, of that vile dog, whom he had trampled into the dirt of the Pacific
coast, and who now, decked in fine clothes, had arisen in Paris to balk him of his fortune.

It cut Banker very deeply when he thought how neat and simple had been the plan which had almost
succeeded. He had had a notion, when he went away to prepare the letter for the captain's wife,
that he would write in it a brief message which would mean nothing, but would make it necessary
for her to see him again and to pay him again. But he had abandoned this. He might counterfeit
an address, but it was wiser not to try his hand upon a letter. The more he thought about Raminez,
the less he desired to run the risk of meeting him, even in Paris. So he considered that if
he made this one bold stroke and got five thousand francs, he would retire, joyful and satisfied.
But now! Well, he had a purpose: the annihilation of Cheditafa was at present his chief object
in life.

Banker seldom stayed in one place more than a day at a time, and before he went to a new lodging,
that night, he threw away his slouch-hat, which he had rammed into his pocket, for he would
not want it again. He had his hair cut short and his face neatly shaved, and when he went to
his room, he trimmed his mustache in such a way that it greatly altered the cast of his countenance.
He was not the penniless man he had represented himself to be, who had not three francs to
jingle together, for he was a billiard sharper and gambler of much ability, and when he appeared
in the street, the next morning, he was neatly dressed in a suit of second-hand clothes which
were as quiet and respectable as any tourist of limited means could have desired. With Baedeker's
"Paris" in his hand, and with a long knife and a slung-shot concealed in his clothes, he went
forth to behold the wonders of the great city.

He did not seem to care very much whether he saw the sights by day or by night, for from early
morning until ten or eleven o'clock in the evening, he was an energetic and interested wayfarer,
confining his observations, however, to certain quarters of the city which best suited his
investigations. One night he gawkily strolled into the Black Cat, and one day he boldly entered
the Hotel Grenade and made some inquiries of the porter regarding the price of accommodations,
which, however, he declared were far above his means. That day he saw Mok in the courtyard,
and once, in passing, he saw Edna come out and enter her carriage with an elderly lady, and
they drove away, with Cheditafa on the box.

Under his dark sack-coat Banker wore a coarse blouse, and in the pocket of this undergarment
he had a white cap. He was a wonderful man to move quietly out of people's way, and there were
places in every neighborhood where, even in the daytime, he could cast off the dark coat and
the derby hat without attracting attention.

It was satisfactory to think, as he briskly passed on, as one who has much to see in a little
time, that the incident in the Tuileries Gardens had not yet caused the captain's wife to change
her quarters.

CHAPTER XLVI

A PROBLEM

It was a little more than a week after Edna's adventure in the Gardens, and about ten o'clock
in the morning, that something happened--something which proved that Mrs. Cliff was entirely
right when she talked about the feeling in her bones. Edna received a letter from Captain Horn,
which was dated at Marseilles.

As she stood with the letter in her hand, every nerve tingling, every vein throbbing, and every
muscle as rigid as if it had been cast in metal, she could scarcely comprehend that it had
really come--that she really held it. After all this waiting and hoping and trusting, here
was news from Captain Horn--news by his own hand, now, here, this minute!

Presently she regained possession of herself, and, still standing, she tore open the letter.
It was a long one of several sheets, and she read it twice. The first time, standing where
she had received it, she skimmed over page after page, running her eye from top to bottom until
she had reached the end and the signature, but her quick glance found not what she looked for.
Then the hand holding the letter dropped by her side. After all this waiting and hoping and
trusting, to receive such a letter! It might have been written by a good friend, a true and
generous friend, but that was all. It was like the other letters he had written. Why should
they not have been written to Mrs. Cliff?

Now she sat down to read it over again. She first looked at the envelope. Yes, it was really
directed to "Mrs. Philip Horn." That was something, but it could not have been less. It had
been brought by a messenger from Wraxton, Fuguet & Co., and had been delivered to Mrs. Cliff.
That lady had told the messenger to take the letter to Edna's salon, and she was now lying
in her own chamber, in a state of actual ague. Of course, she would not intrude upon Edna at
such a moment as this. She would wait until she was called. Whether her shivers were those
of ecstasy, apprehension, or that nervous tremulousness which would come to any one who beholds
an uprising from the grave, she did not know, but she surely felt as if there were a ghost
in the air.

The second reading of the letter was careful and exact. The captain had written a long account
of what had happened after he had left Valparaiso. His former letter, he wrote, had told her
what had happened before that time. He condensed everything as much as possible, but the letter
was a very long one. It told wonderful things--things which ought to have interested any one.
But to Edna it was as dry as a meal of stale crusts. It supported her in her fidelity and allegiance
as such a meal would have supported a half-famished man, but that was all. Her soul could not
live on such nutriment as this.

He had not begun the letter "My dear Wife," as he had done before. It was not necessary now
that his letters should be used as proof that she was his widow! He had plunged instantly into
the subject-matter, and had signed it after the most friendly fashion. He was not even coming
to her! There was so much to do which must be done immediately, and could not be done without
him. He had telegraphed to his bankers, and one of the firm and several clerks were already
with him. There were great difficulties yet before him, in which he needed the aid of financial
counsellors and those who had influence with the authorities. His vessel, the Arato, had no
papers, and he believed no cargo of such value had ever entered a port of France as that contained
in the little green-hulled schooner which he had sailed into the harbor of Marseilles. This
cargo must be landed openly. It must be shipped to various financial centres, and what was
to be done required so much prudence, knowledge, and discretion that without the aid of the
house of Wraxton, Fuguet & Co., he believed his difficulties would have been greater than when
he stood behind the wall of gold on the shore of the Patagonian island.

He did not even ask her to come to him. In a day or so, he wrote, it might be necessary for
him to go to Berlin, and whether or not he would travel to London from the German capital,
he could not say, and for this reason he could not invite any of them to come down to him.

"Any of us!" exclaimed Edna.

For more than an hour Mrs. Cliff lay in the state of palpitation which pervaded her whole organization,
waiting for Edna to call her. And at last she could wait no longer, and rushed into the salon
where Edna sat alone, the letter in her hand.

"What does he say?" she cried, "Is he well? Where is he? Did he get the gold?"

Edna looked at her for a moment without answering. "Yes," she said presently, "he is well.
He is in Marseilles. The gold--" And for a moment she did not remember whether or not the captain
had it.

"Oh, do say something!" almost screamed Mrs. Cliff. "What is it? Shall I read the letter? What
does he say?"

This recalled Edna to herself. "No," said she, "I will read it to you." And she read it aloud,
from beginning to end, carefully omitting those passages which Mrs. Cliff would have been sure
to think should have been written in a manner in which they were not written.

"Well!" exclaimed Mrs. Cliff, who, in alternate horror, pity, and rapture, had listened, pale
and open-mouthed, to the letter. "Captain Horn is consistent to the end! Whatever happens,
he keeps away from us! But that will not be for long, and--oh, Edna!"--and, as she spoke, she
sprang from her chair and threw her arms around the neck of her companion, "he's got the gold!"
And, with this, the poor lady sank insensible upon the floor.

"The gold!" exclaimed Edna, before she even stooped toward her fainting friend. "Of what importance
is that wretched gold!"

An hour afterwards Mrs. Cliff, having been restored to her usual condition, came again into
Edna's room, still pale and in a state of excitement.

"Now, I suppose," she exclaimed, "we can speak out plainly, and tell everybody everything.
And I believe that will be to me a greater delight than any amount of money could possibly be."

"Speak out!" cried Edna, "of course we cannot. We have no more right to speak out now than
we ever had. Captain Horn insisted that we should not speak of these affairs until he came,
and he has not yet come."

"No, indeed!" said Mrs. Cliff, "that seems to be the one thing he cannot do. He can do everything
but come here. And are we to tell nobody that he has arrived in France?--not even that much?"

"I shall tell Ralph," replied Edna. "I shall write to him to come here as soon as possible,
but that is all until the captain arrives, and we know everything that has been done, and is
to be done. I don't wish any one, except you and me and Ralph, even to know that I have heard
from him."

"Not Cheditafa? Not the professor? Nor any of your friends?"

"Of course not," said Edna, a little impatiently. "Don't you see how embarrassing, how impossible
it would be for me to tell them anything, if I did not tell them everything? And what is there
for me to tell them? When we have seen Captain Horn, we shall all know who we are, and what
we are, and then we can speak out to the world, and I am sure I shall be glad enough to do it."

"For my part," said Mrs. Cliff, "I think we all know who we are now. I don't think anybody
could tell us. And I think it would have been a great deal better--"

"No, it wouldn't!" exclaimed Edna. "Whatever you were going to say, I know it wouldn't have
been better. We could have done nothing but what we have done. We had no right to speak of
Captain Horn's affairs, and having accepted his conditions, with everything else that he has
given us, we are bound to observe them until he removes them. So we shall not talk any more
about that."

Poor Mrs. Cliff sighed. "So I must keep myself sealed and locked up, just the same as ever?"

"Yes," replied Edna, "the same as ever. But it cannot be for long. As soon as the captain has
made his arrangements, we shall hear from him, and then everything will be told."

"Made his arrangements!" repeated Mrs. Cliff. "That's another thing I don't like. It seems
to me that if everything were just as it ought to be, there wouldn't be so many arrangements
to make, and he wouldn't have to be travelling to Berlin, and to London, and nobody knows where
else. I wonder if people are giving him any trouble about it! We have had all sorts of troubles
already, and now that the blessed end seems almost under our fingers, I hope we are not going
to have more of it."

"Our troubles," said Edna, "are nothing. It is Captain Horn who should talk in that way. I
don't think that, since the day we left San Francisco, anybody could have supposed that we
were in any sort of trouble."

"I don't mean outside circumstances," said Mrs. Cliff. "But I suppose we have all got souls
and consciences inside of us, and when they don't know what to do, of course we are bound to
be troubled, especially as they don't know what to tell us, and we don't know whether or not
to mind them when they do speak. But you needn't be afraid of me. I shall keep quiet--that
is, as long as I can. I can't promise forever."

Edna wrote to Ralph, telling him of the captain's letter, and urging him to come to Paris as
soon as possible. It was scarcely necessary to speak to him of secrecy, for the boy was wise
beyond his years. She did speak of it, however, but very circumspectly. She knew that her brother
would never admit that there was any reason for the soul-rending anxiety with which she waited
the captain's return. But whatever happened, or whatever he might think about what should happen,
she wanted Ralph with her. She felt herself more truly alone than she had ever been in her life.

During the two days which elapsed before Ralph reached Paris from Brussels, Edna had plenty
of time to think, and she did not lose any of it. What Mrs. Cliff had said about people giving
trouble, and about her conscience, and all that, had touched her deeply. What Captain Horn
had said about the difficulties he had encountered on reaching Marseilles, and what he had
said about the cargo of the Arato being probably more valuable than any which had ever entered
that port, seemed to put an entirely new face upon the relations between her and the owner
of this vast wealth, if, indeed, he were able to establish that ownership. The more she thought
of this point, the more contemptible appeared her own position--that is, the position she had
assumed when she and the captain stood together for the last time on the shore of Peru. If
that gold truly belonged to him, if he had really succeeded in his great enterprise, what right
had she to insist that he should accept her as a condition of his safe arrival in a civilized
land with this matchless prize, with no other right than was given her by that very indefinite
contract which had been entered into, as she felt herself forced to believe, only for her benefit
in case he should not reach a civilized land alive?

The disposition of this great wealth was evidently an anxiety and a burden, but in her heart
she believed that the greatest of his anxieties was caused by his doubt in regard to the construction
she might now place upon that vague, weird ceremony on the desert coast of Peru.

The existence of such a doubt was the only thing that could explain the tone of his letters.
He was a man of firmness and decision, and when he had reached a conclusion, she knew he would
state it frankly, without hesitation. But she also knew that he was a man of a kind and tender
heart, and it was easy to understand how that disposition had influenced his action. By no
word or phrase, except such as were necessary to legally protect her in the rights he wished
to give her in case of his death, had he written anything to indicate that he or she were not
both perfectly free to plan out the rest of their lives as best suited them.

In a certain way, his kindness was cruelty. It threw too much upon her. She believed that if
she were to assume that a marriage ceremony performed by a black man from the wilds of Africa,
was as binding, at least, as a solemn engagement, he would accept her construction and all
its consequences. She also believed that if she declared that ceremony to be of no value whatever,
now that the occasion had passed, he would agree with that conclusion. Everything depended
upon her. It was too hard for her.

To exist in this state of uncertainty was impossible for a woman of Edna's organization. At
any hour Captain Horn might appear. How should she receive him? What had she to say to him?

For the rest of that day and the whole of the night, her mind never left this question: "What
am I to say to him?" She had replied to his letter by a telegram, and simply signed herself
"Edna." It was easy enough to telegraph anywhere, and even to write, without assuming any particular
position in regard to him. But when he came, she must know what to do and what to say. She
longed for Ralph's coming, but she knew he could not help her. He would say but one thing--that
which he had always said. In fact, he would be no better than Mrs. Cliff. But he was her own
flesh and blood, and she longed for him.

CHAPTER XLVII

A MAN-CHIMPANZEE

Since the affair with the Rackbird, Cheditafa had done his duty more earnestly than ever before.
He said nothing to Mok about the Rackbird. He had come to look upon his fellow-African as a
very low creature, not much better than a chimpanzee. During Ralph's absence Mok had fallen
into all sorts of irregular habits, going out without leave whenever he got a chance, and disporting
himself generally in a very careless and unservant-like manner.

On the evening that Ralph was expected from Brussels, Mok was missing. Cheditafa could not
find him in any of the places where he ought to have been, so he must be out of doors somewhere,
and Cheditafa went to look for him.

This was the first time that Cheditafa had gone into the streets alone at night since the Rackbird
incident in the Tuileries Gardens. As he was the custodian of Mok, and responsible for him,
he did not wish to lose sight of him, especially on this evening.

It so happened that when Cheditafa went out of the hotel, his appearance was noticed by Mr.
Banker. There was nothing remarkable about this, for the evening was the time when the ex-Rackbird
gave the most attention to the people who came out of the hotel. When he saw Cheditafa, his
soul warmed within him. Here was the reward of patience and steadfastness--everything comes
to those who wait.

A half-hour before, Banker had seen Mok leave the hotel and make his way toward the Black Cat.
He did not molest the rapidly walking negro. He would not have disturbed him for anything.
But his watchfulness became so eager and intense that he almost, but not quite, exposed himself
to the suspicion of a passing gendarme. He now expected Cheditafa, for the reason that the
manner of the younger negro indicated that he was playing truant. It was likely that the elder
man would go after him, and this was exactly what happened.

Banker allowed the old African to go his way without molestation, for the brightly lighted
neighborhood of the hotel was not adapted to his projected performance. But he followed him
warily, and, when they reached a quiet street, Banker quickened his pace, passed Cheditafa,
and, suddenly turning, confronted him. Then, without a word having been said, there flashed
upon the mind of the African everything that had happened, not only in the Tuileries Gardens,
but in the Rackbirds' camp, and at the same time a prophetic feeling of what was about to happen.

By a few quick pulls and jerks, Banker had so far removed his disguise that Cheditafa knew
him the instant that his eyes fell upon him. His knees trembled, his eyeballs rolled so that
nothing but their whites could be seen, and he gave himself up to death. Then spoke out the
terrible Rackbird.

What he said need not be recorded here, but every word of superheated vengeance, with which
he wished to torture the soul of his victim before striking him to the earth, went straight
to the soul of Cheditafa, as if it had been a white-hot iron. His chin fell upon his breast.
He had but one hope, and that was that he would be killed quickly. He had seen people killed
in the horrible old camp, and the man before him he believed to be the worst Rackbird of them all.

When Banker had finished stabbing and torturing the soul of the African, he drew a knife from
under his coat, and down fell Cheditafa on his knees.

The evening was rainy and dark, and the little street was nearly deserted. Banker, who could
look behind and before him without making much show of turning his head, had made himself sure
of this before he stepped in front of Cheditafa. But while he had been pouring out his torrent
of heart-shrivelling vituperation, he had ceased to look before and behind him, and had not
noticed a man coming down the street in the opposite direction to that in which they had been
going.

This was Mok, who was much less of a fool than Cheditafa took him for. He had calculated that
he would have time to go to the Black Cat and drink two glasses of beer before Ralph was likely
to appear, and he also made up his mind that two glasses were as much as he could dispose of
without exciting the suspicions of the young man. Therefore, he had attended to the business
that had taken him out of doors on that rainy night, and was returning to the hotel with a
lofty consciousness of having done wrong in a very wise and satisfactory manner.

He wore india-rubber overshoes, because the pavements were wet, and also because this sort
of foot-gear suited him better than hard, unyielding sole-leather. Had he had his own way,
he would have gone bare-footed, but that would have created comment in the streets of Paris--he
had sense enough to know that.

When he first perceived, by the dim light of a street lamp, two persons standing together on
his side of the street, his conscience, without any reason for it, suggested that he cross
over and pass by without attracting attention. To wrong-doers attention is generally unwelcome.

Mok not only trod with the softness and swiftness of a panther, but he had eyes like that animal,
and if there were any light at all, those eyes could make good use of it. As he neared the
two men, he saw that one was scolding the other. Then he saw the other man drop down on his
knees. Then, being still nearer, he perceived that the man on his knees was Cheditafa. Then
he saw the man in front of him draw a knife from under his coat.

As a rule, Mok was a coward, but two glasses of beer were enough to turn his nature in precisely
the opposite direction. A glass less would have left him timorous, a glass more would have
made him foolhardy and silly. He saw that somebody was about to stab his old friend. In five
long, noiseless steps, or leaps, he was behind that somebody, and had seized the arm which
held the knife.

With a movement as quick as the stroke of a rattlesnake, Banker turned upon the man who had
clutched his arm, and when he saw that it was Mok, his fury grew tornado-like. With a great
oath, and a powerful plunge backward, he endeavored to free his arm from the grasp of the negro.
But he did not do it. Those black fingers were fastened around his wrist as though they had
been fetters forged to fit him. And in the desperate struggle the knife was dropped.

In a hand-to-hand combat with a chimpanzee, a strong man would have but little chance of success,
and Mok, under the influence of two glasses of beer, was a man-chimpanzee. When Banker swore,
and when he turned so that the light of the street lamp fell upon his face, Mok recognized
him. He knew him for a Rackbird of the Rackbirds--as the cruel, black-eyed savage who had beaten
him, trodden upon him, and almost crushed the soul out of him, in that far-away camp by the
sea. How this man should have suddenly appeared in Paris, why he came there, and what he was
going to do, whether he was alone, or with his band concealed in the neighboring doorways,
Mok did not trouble his mind to consider. He held in his brazen grip a creature whom he considered
worse than the most devilish of African devils, a villain who had been going to kill Cheditafa.

Every nerve under his black skin, every muscle that covered his bones, and the two glasses
of beer, sung out to him that the Rackbird could not get away from him, and that the great
hour of vengeance had arrived.

Banker had a pistol, but he had no chance to draw it. The arms of the wild man were around
him. His feet slipped from under him, and instantly the two were rolling on the wet pavement.
But only for an instant. Banker was quick and light and strong to such a degree that no man
but a man-chimpanzee could have overpowered him in a struggle like that. Both were on their
feet almost as quickly as they went down, but do what he would, Banker could not get out his
pistol.

Those long black arms, one of them now bared to the shoulder, were about him ever. He pulled,
and tugged, and swerved. He half threw him one instant, half lifted the next, but never could
loosen the grasp of that fierce creature, whose whole body seemed as tough and elastic as the
shoes he wore.

Together they fell, together they rolled in the dirty slime, together they rose as if they
had been shot up by a spring, and together they went down again, rolling over each other, pulling,
tearing, striking, gasping, and panting.

Cheditafa had gone. The moment of Mok's appearance, he had risen and fled. There were now people
in the street. Some had come out of their houses, hearing the noise of the struggle, for Banker
wore heavy shoes. There were also one or two pedestrians who had stopped, unwilling to pass
men who were engaged in such a desperate conflict.

No one interfered. It would have seemed as prudent to step between two tigers. Such a bounding,
whirling, tumbling, rolling, falling, and rising contest had never been seen in that street,
except between cats. It seemed that the creatures would dash themselves through the windows
of the houses.

It was not long before Cheditafa came back with two policemen, all running, and then the men
who lay in the street, spinning about as if moving on pivots, were seized and pulled apart.
At first the officers of the law appeared at a loss to know what had happened, and who had
been attacked. What was this black creature from the Jardin des Plantes? But Banker's coat
had been torn from his back, and his pistol stood out in bold relief in his belt, and Cheditafa
pointed to the breathless bandit, and screamed: "Bad man! Bad man! Try to kill me! This good
Mok save my life!"

Two more policemen now came hurrying up, for other people had given the alarm, and it was not
considered necessary to debate the question as to who was the aggressor in this desperate affair.
Cheditafa, Mok, and Banker were all taken to the police station.

As Cheditafa was known to be in the service of the American lady at the Hotel Grenade, the
portier of that establishment was sent for, and having given his testimony to the good character
of the two negroes, they were released upon his becoming surety for their appearance when wanted.

As for Banker, there was no one to go security. He was committed for trial.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Ralph went to his room, that night, he immediately rang for his valet. Mok, who had reached
the hotel from the police station but a few minutes before, answered the summons. When Ralph
turned about and beheld the black man, his hair plastered with mud, his face plastered with
mud, and what clothes he had on muddy, torn, and awry, with one foot wearing a great overshoe
and the other bare, with both black arms entirely denuded of sleeves, with eyes staring from
his head, and his whole form quivering and shaking, the young man started as if some afrit
of the "Arabian Nights" had come at this dark hour to answer his call.

To the eager questions which poured upon him when his identity became apparent, Mok could make
no intelligible answer. He did not possess English enough for that. But Cheditafa was quickly
summoned, and he explained everything. He explained it once, twice, three times, and then he
and Mok were sent away, and told to go to bed, and under no circumstances to mention to their
mistress what had happened, or to anybody who might mention it to her. And this Cheditafa solemnly
promised for both.

The clock struck one as Ralph still sat in his chair, wondering what all this meant, and what
might be expected to happen next. To hear that a real, live Rackbird was in Paris, that this
outlaw had threatened his sister, that the police had been watching for him, that he had sworn
to kill Cheditafa, and that night had tried to do it, amazed him beyond measure.

At last he gave up trying to conjecture what it meant. It was foolish to waste his thoughts
in that way. To-morrow he must find out. He could understand very well why his sister had kept
him in ignorance of the affair in the Gardens. She had feared danger to him. She knew that
he would be after that scoundrel more hotly than any policeman. But what the poor girl must
have suffered! It was terrible to think of.

The first thing he would do would be to take very good care that she heard nothing of the attack
on Cheditafa. He would go to the police office early the next morning and look into this matter.
He did not think that it would be necessary for Edna to know anything about it, except that
the Rackbird had been arrested and she need no longer fear him.

When Ralph reached the police station, the next day, he found there the portier of the hotel,
together with Cheditafa and Mok.

After Banker's examination, to which he gave no assistance by admissions of any sort, he was
remanded for trial, and he was held merely for his affair with the negroes, no charge having
been made against him for his attempt to obtain money from their mistress, or his threats in
her direction. As the crime for which he had been arrested gave reason enough for condign punishment
of the desperado, Ralph saw, and made Cheditafa see, it would be unnecessary as well as unpleasant
to drag Edna into the affair.

That afternoon Mr. Banker, who had recovered his breath and had collected his ideas, sent for
the police magistrate and made a confession. He said he had been a member of a band of outlaws,
but having grown disgusted with their evil deeds, had left them. He had become very poor, and
having heard that the leader of the band had made a fortune by a successful piece of rascality,
and had married a fine lady, and was then in Paris, he had come to this city to meet him, and
to demand in the name of their old comradeship some assistance in his need. He had found his
captain's wife. She had basely deceived him after having promised to help him, and he had been
insulted and vilely treated by that old negro, who was once a slave in the Rackbirds' camp
in Peru, and who had been brought here with the other negro by the captain. He also freely
admitted that he had intended to punish the black fellow, though he had no idea whatever of
killing him. If he had had such an idea, it would have been easy enough for him to put his
knife into him when he met him in that quiet street. But he had not done so, but had contented
himself with telling him what he thought of him, and with afterwards frightening him with his
knife. And then the other fellow had come up, and there had been a fight. Therefore, although
he admitted that his case was a great misdemeanor, and that he had been very disorderly, he
boldly asserted that he had contemplated no murder. But what he wished particularly to say
to the magistrate was that the captain of the Rackbirds would probably soon arrive in Paris,
and that he ought to be arrested. No end of important results might come from such an arrest.
He was quite sure that the great stroke of fortune which had enabled the captain's family to
live in Paris in such fine style ought to be investigated. The captain had never made any money
by simple and straightforward methods of business.

All this voluntary testimony was carefully taken down, and although the magistrate did not
consider it necessary to believe any of it, the arrival of Captain Horn was thenceforth awaited
with interest by the police of Paris.

It was not very plain how Miss Markham of the Hotel Grenade, who was well known as a friend
of a member of the American legation, could be the wife of a South American bandit. But then,
there might be reasons why she wished to retain her maiden name for the present, and she might
not know her husband as a bandit.

CHAPTER XLVIII

ENTER CAPTAIN HORN

It was less than a week after the tumbling match in the street between Banker and Mok, and
about eleven o'clock in the morning, when a brief note, written on a slip of paper and accompanied
by a card, was brought to Edna from Mrs. Cliff. On the card was written the name of Captain
Philip Horn, and the note read thus:

"He is here. He sent his card to me. Of course, you will see him. Oh, Edna! don't do anything
foolish when you see him! Don't go and throw away everything worth living for in this world!
Heaven help you!"

This note was hurriedly written, but Edna read it at a glance.

"Bring the gentleman here," she said to the man.

Now, with all her heart, Edna blessed herself and thanked herself that, at last, she had been
strong enough and brave enough to determine what she ought to do when she met the captain.
That very morning, lying awake in her bed, she had determined that she would meet him in the
same spirit as that in which he had written to her. She would be very strong. She would not
assume anything. She would not accept the responsibility of deciding the situation, which responsibility
she believed he thought it right she should assume. She would not have it. If he appeared before
her as the Captain Horn of his letters, he should go away as the man who had written those
letters. If he had come here on business, she would show him that she was a woman of business.

As she stood waiting, with her eyes upon his card, which lay upon the table, and Mrs. Cliffs
note crumpled up in one hand, she saw the captain for some minutes before it was possible for
him to reach her. She saw him on board the Castor, a tall, broad-shouldered sailor, with his
hands in the pockets of his pea-jacket. She saw him by the caves in Peru, his flannel shirt
and his belted trousers faded by the sun and water, torn and worn, and stained by the soil
on which they so often sat, with his long hair and beard, and the battered felt hat, which
was the last thing she saw as his boat faded away in the distance, when she stood watching
it from the sandy beach. She saw him as she had imagined him after she had received his letter,
toiling barefooted along the sands, carrying heavy loads upon his shoulders, living alone night
and day on a dreary desert coast, weary, perhaps haggard, but still indomitable. She saw him
in storm, in shipwreck, in battle, and as she looked upon him thus with the eyes of her brain,
there were footsteps outside her door.

As Captain Horn came through the long corridors and up the stairs, following the attendant,
he saw the woman he was about to meet, and saw her before he met her. He saw her only in one
aspect--that of a tall, too thin, young woman, clad in a dark-blue flannel suit, unshapely,
streaked, and stained, her hair bound tightly round her head and covered by an old straw hat
with a faded ribbon. This picture of her as he had left her standing on the beach, at the close
of that afternoon when his little boat pulled out into the Pacific, was as clear and distinct
as when he had last seen it.

A door was opened before him, and he entered Edna's salon. For a moment he stopped in the doorway.
He did not see the woman he had come to meet. He saw before him a lady handsomely and richly
dressed in a Parisian morning costume--a lady with waving masses of dark hair above a lovely
face, a lady with a beautiful white hand, which was half raised as he appeared in the doorway.

She stood with her hand half raised. She had never seen the man before her. He was a tall,
imposing gentleman, in a dark suit, over which he wore a light-colored overcoat. One hand was
gloved, and in the other he held a hat. His slightly curling brown beard and hair were trimmed
after the fashion of the day, and his face, though darkened by the sun, showed no trace of
toil, or storm, or anxious danger. He was a tall, broad-shouldered gentleman, with an air of
courtesy, an air of dignity, an air of forbearance, which were as utterly unknown to her as
everything else about him, except his eyes--those were the same eyes she had seen on board
the Castor and on the desert sands.

Had it not been for the dark eyes which looked so steadfastly at him, Captain Horn, would have
thought that he had been shown into the wrong room. But he now knew there was no mistake, and
he entered. Edna raised her hand and advanced to meet him.

He shook hands with her exactly as he had written to her, and she shook hands with him just
as she had telegraphed to him. Much of her natural color had left her face. As he had never
seen this natural color, under the sun-brown of the Pacific voyage, he did not miss it.

Instantly she began to speak. How glad she was that she had prepared herself to speak as she
would have spoken to any other good friend! So she expressed her joy at seeing him again, well
and successful after all these months of peril, toil, and anxiety, and they sat down near each
other.

He looked at her steadfastly, and asked her many things about Ralph, Mrs. Cliff, and the negroes,
and what had happened since he left San Francisco. He listened with a questioning intentness
as she spoke. She spoke rapidly and concisely as she answered his questions and asked him about
himself. She said little about the gold. One might have supposed that he had arrived at Marseilles
with a cargo of coffee. At the same time, there seemed to be, on Edna's part, a desire to lengthen
out her recital of unimportant matters. She now saw that the captain knew she did not care
to talk of these things. She knew that he was waiting for an opportunity to turn the conversation
into another channel,--waiting with an earnestness that was growing more and more apparent,--and
as she perceived this, and as she steadily talked to him, she assured herself, with all the
vehemence of which her nature was capable, that she and this man were two people connected
by business interests, and that she was ready to discuss that business in a business way as
soon as he could speak. But still she did not yet give him the chance to speak.

The captain sat there, with his blue eyes fixed upon her, and, as she looked at him, she knew
him to be the personification of honor and magnanimity, waiting until he could see that she
was ready for him to speak, ready to listen if she should speak, ready to meet her on any ground--a
gentleman, she thought, above all the gentlemen in the world. And still she went on talking
about Mrs. Cliff and Ralph.

Suddenly the captain rose. Whether or not he interrupted her in the middle of a sentence, he
did not know, nor did she know. He put his hat upon a table and came toward her. He stood in
front of her and looked down at her. She looked up at him, but he did not immediately speak.
She could not help standing silently and looking up at him when he stood and looked down upon
her in that way. Then he spoke.

"Are you my wife?" said he.

"By all that is good and blessed in heaven or earth, I am," she answered.

Standing there, and looking up into his eyes, there was no other answer for her to make.

       *       *       *       *       *

Seldom has a poor, worn, tired, agitated woman kept what was to her a longer or more anxious
watch upon a closed door than Mrs. Cliff kept that day. If even Ralph had appeared, she would
have decoyed him into her own room, and locked him up there, if necessary.

In about an hour after Mrs. Cliff began her watch, a tall man walked rapidly out of the salon
and went down the stairs, and then a woman came running across the hall and into Mrs. Cliff's
room, closing the door behind her. Mrs. Cliff scarcely recognized this woman. She had Edna's
hair and face, but there was a glow and a glory on her countenance such as Mrs. Cliff had never
seen, or expected to see until, in the hereafter, she should see it on the face of an angel.

"He has loved me," said Edna, with her arms around her old friend's neck, "ever since we had
been a week on the Castor."

Mrs. Cliff shivered and quivered with joy. She could not say anything, but over and over again
she kissed the burning cheeks of her friend. At last they stood apart, and, when Mrs. Cliff
was calm enough to speak, she said:

"Ever since we were on the Castor! Well, Edna, you must admit that Captain Horn is uncommonly
good at keeping things to himself."

"Yes," said the other, "and he always kept it to himself. He never let it go away from him.
He had intended to speak to me, but he wanted to wait until I knew him better, and until we
were in a position where he wouldn't seem to be taking advantage of me by speaking. And when
you proposed that marriage by Cheditafa, he was very much troubled and annoyed. It was something
so rough and jarring, and so discordant with what he had hoped, that at first he could not
bear to think of it. But he afterwards saw the sense of your reasoning, and agreed simply because
it would be to my advantage in case he should lose his life in his undertaking. And we will
be married to-morrow at the embassy."

"To-morrow!" cried Mrs. Cliff. "So soon?"

"Yes," replied Edna. "The captain has to go away, and I am going with him."

"That is all right," said Mrs. Cliff. "Of course I was a little surprised at first. But how
about the gold? How much was there of it? And what is he going to do with it?"

"He scarcely mentioned the gold," replied Edna. "We had more precious things to talk about.
When he sees us all together, you and I and Ralph, he will tell us what he has done, and what
he is going to do, and--"

"And we can say what we please?" cried Mrs. Cliff.

"Yes," said Edna,--"to whomever we please."

"Thank the Lord!" exclaimed Mrs. Cliff. "That is almost as good as being married."

       *       *       *       *       *

On his arrival in Paris the night before, Captain Horn had taken lodgings at a hotel not far
from the Hotel Grenade, and the first thing he did the next morning was to visit Edna. He had
supposed, of course, that she was at the same hotel in which Mrs. Cliff resided, which address
he had got from Wraxton, in Marseilles, and he had expected to see the elderly lady first,
and to get some idea of how matters stood before meeting Edna. He was in Paris alone. He had
left Shirley and Burke, with the negroes, in Marseilles. He had wished to do nothing, to make
no arrangements for any one, until he had seen Edna, and had found out what his future life
was to be.

Now, as he walked back to his hotel, that future life lay before him radiant and resplendent.
No avenue in Paris, or in any part of the world, blazing with the lights of some grand festival,
ever shone with such glowing splendor as the future life of Captain Horn now shone and sparkled
before him, as he walked and walked, on and on, and crossed the river into the Latin Quarter,
before he perceived that his hotel was a mile or more behind him.

From the moment that the Arato had left the Straits of Magellan, and Captain Horn had had reason
to believe that he had left his dangers behind him, the prow of his vessel had been set toward
the Strait of Gibraltar, and every thought of his heart toward Edna. Burke and Shirley both
noticed a change in him. After he left the Rackbirds' cove, until he had sailed into the South
Atlantic, his manner had been quiet, alert, generally anxious, and sometimes stern. But now,
day by day, he appeared to be growing into a different man. He was not nervous, nor apparently
impatient, but it was easy to see that within him there burned a steady purpose to get on as
fast as the wind would blow them northward.

Day by day, as he walked the deck of his little vessel, one might have thought him undergoing
a transformation from the skipper of a schooner into the master of a great ship, into the captain
of a swift Atlantic liner, into the commander of a man-of-war, into the commodore on board
a line-of-battle ship. It was not an air of pride or assumed superiority that he wore, it was
nothing assumed, it was nothing of which he was not entirely aware. It was the gradual growth
within him, as health grows into a man recovering from a sickness, of the consciousness of
power. The source of that consciousness lay beneath him, as he trod the deck of the Arato.

This consciousness, involuntary, and impossible to resist, had nothing definite about it. It
had nothing which could wholly satisfy the soul of this man, who kept his eyes and his thoughts
so steadfastly toward the north. He knew that there were but few things in the world that his
power could not give him, but there was one thing upon which it might have no influence whatever,
and that one thing was far more to him than all other things in this world.

Sometimes, as he sat smoking beneath the stars, he tried to picture to himself the person who
might be waiting and watching for him in Paris, and to try to look upon her as she must really
be; for, after her life in San Francisco and Paris, she could not remain the woman she had
been at the caves on the coast of Peru. But, do what he would, he could make no transformation
in the picture which was imprinted on the retina of his soul. There he saw a woman still young,
tall, and too thin, in a suit of blue flannel faded and worn, with her hair bound tightly around
her head and covered by a straw hat with a faded ribbon. But it was toward this figure that
he was sailing, sailing, sailing, as fast as the winds of heaven would blow his vessel onward.

CHAPTER XLIX

A GOLDEN AFTERNOON

When Ralph met Captain Horn that afternoon, there rose within him a sudden, involuntary appreciation
of the captain's worthiness to possess a ship-load of gold and his sister Edna. Before that
meeting there had been doubts in the boy's mind in regard to this worthiness. He believed that
he had thoroughly weighed and judged the character and capacities of the captain of the Castor,
and he had said to himself, in his moments of reflection, that although Captain Horn was a
good man, and a brave man, and an able man in many ways, there were other men in the world
who were better fitted for the glorious double position into which this fortunate mariner had
fallen.

But now, as Ralph sat and gazed upon his sister's lover and heard him talk, and as he turned
from him to Edna's glowing eyes, he acknowledged, without knowing it, the transforming power
of those two great alchemists,--gold and love,--and from the bottom of his heart he approved
the match.

Upon Mrs. Cliff the first sight of Captain Horn had been a little startling, and had she not
hastened to assure herself that the compact with Edna was a thing fixed and settled, she might
have been possessed with the fear that perhaps this gentleman might have views for his future
life very different from those upon which she had set her heart. But even if she had not known
of the compact of the morning, all danger of that fear would have passed in the moment that
the captain took her by the hand.

To find his three companions of the wreck and desert in such high state and flourishing condition
so cheered and uplifted the soul of the captain that he could talk of nothing else. And now
he called for Cheditafa and Mok--those two good fellows whose faithfulness he should never
forget. But when they entered, bending low, with eyes upturned toward the lofty presence to
which they had been summoned, the captain looked inquiringly at Edna. As he came in that afternoon,
he had seen both the negroes in the courtyard, and, in the passing thought he had given to
them, had supposed them to be attendants of some foreign potentate from Barbary or Morocco.
Cheditafa and Mok! The ragged, half-clad negroes of the sea-beach--a parson-butler of sublimated
respectability, a liveried lackey of rainbow and gold! It required minutes to harmonize these
presentments in the mind of Captain Horn.

When the audience of the two Africans--for such it seemed to be--had lasted long enough, Edna
was thinking of dismissing them, when it became plain to her that there was something which
Cheditafa wished to say or do. She looked at him inquiringly, and he came forward.

For a long time the mind of the good African had been exercised upon the subject of the great
deed he had done just before the captain had sailed away from the Peruvian coast. In San Francisco
and Paris he had asked many questions quietly, and apparently without purpose, concerning the
marriage ceremonies of America and other civilized countries. He had not learned enough to
enable him, upon an emergency, to personate an orthodox clergyman, but he had found out this
and that--little things, perhaps, but things which made a great impression upon him--which
had convinced him that in the ceremony he had performed there had been much remissness--how
much, he did not clearly know. But about one thing that had been wanting he had no doubts.

Advancing toward Edna and the captain, who sat near each other, Cheditafa took from his pocket
a large gold ring, which he had purchased with his savings. "There was a thing we didn't do,"
he said, glancing from one to the other. "It was the ring part--nobody thinked of that. Will
captain take it now, and put it on the lady?"

Edna and the captain looked at each other. For a moment no one spoke. Then Edna said, "Take
it." The captain rose and took the ring from the hand of Cheditafa, and Edna stood beside him.
Then he took her hand, and reverently placed the ring upon her fourth finger. Fortunately,
it fitted. It had not been without avail that Cheditafa had so often scanned with a measuring
eye the rings upon the hands of his mistress.

A light of pleasure shone in the eyes of the old negro. Now he had done his full duty--now
all things had been made right. As he had seen the priests stand in the churches of Paris,
he now stood for a moment with his hands outspread. "Very good," he said, "that will do." Then,
followed by Mok, he bowed himself out of the room.

For some moments there was silence in the salon. Nobody thought of laughing, or even smiling.
In the eyes of Mrs. Cliff there were a few tears. She was the first to speak. "He is a good
man," said she, "and he now believes that he has done everything that ought to be done. But
you will be married to-morrow, all the same, of course."

"Yes," said Edna. "But it will be with this ring."

"Yes," said the captain, "with that ring. You must always wear it."

"And now," said Mrs. Cliff, when they had all reseated themselves, "you must really tell us
your story, captain. You know I have heard nothing yet."

And so he told his story--much that Edna had heard before, a great deal she had not heard.
About the treasure, almost everything he said was new to her. Mrs. Cliff was very eager on
this point. She wanted every detail.

"How about the ownership of it?" she said. "After all, that is the great point. What do people
here think of your right to use that gold as your own?"

The captain smiled. "That is not an easy question to answer, but I think we shall settle it
very satisfactorily. Of course, the first thing to do is to get it safely entered and stored
away in the great money centres over here. A good portion of it, in fact, is to be shipped
to Philadelphia to be coined. Of course, all that business is in the hands of my bankers. The
fact that I originally sailed from California was a great help to us. To ascertain my legal
rights in the case was the main object of my visit to London. There Wraxton and I put the matter
before three leading lawyers in that line of business, and although their opinions differed
somewhat, and although we have not yet come to a final conclusion as to what should be done,
the matter is pretty well straightened out as far as we are concerned. Of course, the affair
is greatly simplified by the fact that there is no one on the other side to be a claimant of
the treasure, but we consider it as if there were a claimant, or two of them, in fact. These
can be no other than the present government of Peru, and that portion of the population of
the country which is native to the soil, and the latter, if our suppositions are correct, are
the only real heirs to the treasure which I discovered. But what are the laws of Peru in regard
to treasure-trove, or what may be the disposition of the government toward the native population
and their rights, of course we cannot find out now. That will take time. But of one thing we
are certain: I am entitled to a fair remuneration for the discovery of this treasure, just
the same as if I claimed salvage for having brought a wrecked steamer into port. On this point
the lawyers are all agreed. I have, therefore, made my claim, and shall stand by it with enough
legal force behind me to support me in any emergency.

"But it is not believed that either the Peruvian government, or the natives acting as a body,
if it shall be possible for them to act in that way, will give us any trouble. We have the
matter entirely in our own hands. They do not know of the existence of this treasure, or that
they have any rights to it, until we inform them of the fact, and without our assistance it
will be almost impossible for them to claim anything or prove anything. Therefore, it will
be good policy and common sense for them to acknowledge that we are acting honestly, and, more
than that, generously, and to agree to take what we offer them, and that we shall keep what
is considered by the best legal authorities to be our rights.

"As soon as possible, an agent will be sent to Peru to attend to the matter. But this matter
is in the hands of my lawyers, although, of course, I shall not keep out of the negotiations."

"And how much percentage, captain?" asked Mrs. Cliff. "What part do they think you ought to keep?"

"We have agreed," said he, "upon twenty per cent. of the whole. After careful consideration
and advice, I made that claim. I shall retain it. Indeed, it is already secured to me, no matter
what may happen to the rest of the treasure."

"Twenty per cent.!" exclaimed Mrs. Cliff. "And that is all that you get?"

"Yes," said the captain, "it is what I get--and by that is meant what is to be divided among
us all. I make the claim, but I make it for every one who was on the Castor when she was wrecked,
and for the families of those who are not alive--for every one, in fact, who was concerned
in this matter."

The countenance of Mrs. Cliff had been falling, and now it went down, down, again. After all
the waiting, after all the anxiety, it had come to this: barely twenty per cent., to be divided
among ever so many people--twenty-five or thirty, for all she knew. Only this, after the dreams
she had had, after the castles she had built! Of course, she had money now, and she would have
some more, and she had a great many useful and beautiful things which she had bought, and she
could go back to Plainton in very good circumstances. But that was not what she had been waiting
for, and hoping for, and anxiously trembling for, ever since she had found that the captain
had really reached France with the treasure.

"Captain," she said, and her voice was as husky as if she had been sitting in a draught, "I
have had so many ups and so many downs, and have been turned so often this way and that, I
cannot stand this state of uncertainty any longer. It may seem childish and weak, but I must
know something. Can you give me any idea how much you are to have, or, at least, how much I
shall have, and let me make myself satisfied with whatever it is? Do you think that I shall
be able to go back to Plainton and take my place as a leading citizen there? I don't mind in
the least asking that before you three. I thought I was justified in making that my object
in life, and I have made it my object. Now, if I have been mistaken all this time, I would
like to know it. Don't find fault with me. I have waited, and waited, and waited--"

"Well," interrupted the captain, "you need not wait any longer. The sum that I have retained
shall be divided as soon as possible, and I shall divide it in as just a manner as I can, and
I am ready to hear appeals from any one who is not satisfied. Of course, I shall keep the largest
share of it--that is my right. I found it, and I secured it. And this lady here," pointing
to Edna, "is to have the next largest share in her own right, because she was the main object
which made me work so hard and brave everything to get that treasure here. And then the rest
will share according to rank, as we say on board ship."

"Oh, dear! Oh, dear!" murmured Mrs. Cliff, "he never comes to any point. We never know anything
clear and distinct. This is not any answer at all."

"The amount I claim," continued the captain, who did not notice that Mrs. Cliff was making
remarks to herself, "is forty million dollars."

Everybody started, and Mrs. Cliff sprang up as if a torpedo had been fired beneath her.

"Forty million dollars!" she exclaimed. "I thought you said you would only have twenty per cent.?"

"That is just what it is," remarked the captain, "as nearly as we can calculate. Forty million
dollars is about one fifth of the value of the cargo I brought to France in the Arato. And
as to your share, Mrs. Cliff, I think, if you feel like it, you will be able to buy the town
of Plainton; and if that doesn't make you a leading citizen in it, I don't know what else you
can do."

CHAPTER L

A CASE OF RECOGNITION

Every one in our party at the Hotel Grenade rose very early the next morning. That day was
to be one of activity and event. Mrs. Cliff, who had not slept one wink during the night, but
who appeared almost rejuvenated by the ideas which had come to her during her sleeplessness,
now entered a protest against the proposed marriage at the American legation. She believed
that people of the position which Edna and the captain should now assume ought to be married
in a church, with all proper ceremony and impressiveness, and urged that the wedding be postponed
for a few days, until suitable arrangements could be made.

But Edna would not listen to this. The captain was obliged, by appointment, to be in London
on the morrow, and he could not know how long he might be detained there, and now, wherever
he went, she wished to go with him. He wanted her to be with him, and she was going. Moreover,
she fancied a wedding at the legation. There were all sorts of regulations concerning marriage
in France, and to these neither she nor the captain cared to conform, even if they had time
enough for the purpose. At the American legation they would be in point of law upon American
soil, and there they could be married as Americans, by an American minister.

After that Mrs. Cliff gave up. She was so happy she was ready to agree to anything, or to believe
in anything, and she went to work with heart and hand to assist Edna in getting ready for the
great event.

Mrs. Sylvester, the wife of the secretary, received a note from Edna which brought her to the
hotel as fast as horses were allowed to travel in the streets of Paris, and arrangements were
easily made for the ceremony to take place at four o'clock that afternoon.

The marriage was to be entirely private. No one was to be present but Mrs. Cliff, Ralph, and
Mrs. Sylvester. Nothing was said to Cheditafa of the intended ceremony. After what had happened,
they all felt that it would be right to respect the old negro's feelings and sensibilities.
Mrs. Cliff undertook, after a few days had elapsed, to explain the whole matter to Cheditafa,
and to tell him that what he had done had not been without importance and real utility, but
that it had actually united his master and mistress by a solemn promise before witnesses, which
in some places, and under certain circumstances, would be as good a marriage as any that could
be performed, but that a second ceremony had taken place in order that the two might be considered
man and wife in all places and under all circumstances.

The captain had hoped to see Shirley and Burke before he left Paris, but that was now impossible,
and, on his way to his hotel, after breakfasting at the Hotel Grenade, he telegraphed to them
to come to him in London. He had just sent his telegram when he was touched on the arm, and,
turning, saw standing by him two police officers. Their manner was very civil, but they promptly
informed him, the speaker using very fair English, that he must accompany them to the presence
of a police magistrate.

The captain was astounded. The officers could or would give him no information in regard to
the charge against him, or whether it was a charge at all. They only said that he must come
with them, and that everything would be explained at the police station. The captain's brow
grew black. What this meant he could not imagine, but he had no time to waste in imaginations.
It would be foolish to demand explanations of the officers, or to ask to see the warrant for
their action. He would not understand French warrants, and the quicker he went to the magistrate
and found out what this thing meant, the better. He only asked time to send a telegram to Mr.
Wraxton, urging him to attend him instantly at the police station, and then he went with the
officers.

On the way, Captain Horn turned over matters in his mind. He could think of no cause for this
detention, except it might be something which had turned up in connection with his possession
of the treasure, or perhaps the entrance of the Arato, without papers, at the French port.
But anything of this kind Wraxton could settle as soon as he could be made acquainted with
it. The only real trouble was that he was to be married at four o'clock, and it was now nearly two.

At the police station, Captain Horn met with a fresh annoyance. The magistrate was occupied
with important business and could not attend to him at present. This made the captain very
impatient, and he sent message after message to the magistrate, but to no avail. And Wraxton
did not come. In fact, it was too soon to expect him.

The magistrate had good reason for delay. He did not wish to have anything to do with the gentleman
who had been taken in custody until his accuser, Banker by name, had been brought to this station
from his place of confinement, where he was now held under a serious charge.

Ten minutes, twenty minutes, twenty-five minutes, passed, and the magistrate did not appear.
Wraxton did not come. The captain had never been so fiercely impatient. He did not know to
whom to apply in this serious emergency. He did not wish Edna to know of his trouble until
he found out the nature of it, and if he sent word to the legation, he was afraid that the
news would speedily reach her. Wraxton was his man, whatever the charge might be. He would
be his security for any amount which might be named, and the business might be settled afterwards,
if, indeed, it were not all a mistake of some sort.

But Wraxton did not appear. Suddenly the captain thought of one man who might be of service
to him in this emergency. There was no time for delay. Some one must come, and come quickly,
who could identify him, and the only man he could think of was Professor Barré, Ralph's tutor.
He had met that gentleman the evening before. He could vouch for him, and he could certainly
be trusted not to alarm Edna unnecessarily. He believed the professor could be found at the
hotel, and he instantly sent a messenger to him with a note.

It took a good deal of time to bring the prisoner Banker to the station, and Professor Barré
arrived there before him. The professor was amazed to find Captain Horn under arrest, and unable
to give any reason for this state of things. But it was not long before the magistrate appeared,
and it so happened that he was acquainted with Barré, who was a well-known man in Paris, and,
after glancing at the captain, he addressed himself to the professor, speaking in French. The
latter immediately inquired the nature of the charges against Captain Horn, using the same
language.

"Ah! you know him?" said the magistrate. "He has been accused of being the leader of a band
of outlaws--a man who has committed murders and outrages without number, one who should not
be suffered to go at large, one who should be confined until the authorities of Peru, where
his crimes were committed, have been notified."

The professor stared, but could not comprehend what he had heard.

"What is it?" inquired Captain Horn. "Can you not speak English?"

No, this Parisian magistrate could not speak English, but the professor explained the charge.

"It is the greatest absurdity!" exclaimed the captain. "Ralph told me that a man, evidently
once one of that band of outlaws in Peru, had been arrested for assaulting Cheditafa, and this
charge must be part of his scheme of vengeance for that arrest. I could instantly prove everything
that is necessary to know about me if my banker, Mr. Wraxton, were here. I have sent for him,
but he has not come. I have not a moment to waste discussing this matter." The captain gazed
anxiously toward the door, and for a few moments the three men stood in silence.

The situation was a peculiar one. The professor thought of sending to the Hotel Grenade, but
he hesitated. He said to himself: "The lady's testimony would be of no avail. If he is the
man the bandit says he is, of course she does not know it. His conduct has been very strange,
and for a long time she certainly knew very little about him. I don't see how even his banker
could become surety for him if he were here, and he doesn't seem inclined to come. Anybody
may have a bank-account."

The professor stood looking on the ground. The captain looked at him, and, by that power to
read the thoughts of others which an important emergency often gives to a man, he read, or
believed he did, the thoughts of Barré. He did not blame the man for his doubts. Any one might
have such doubts. A stranger coming to France with a cargo of gold must expect suspicion, and
here was more--a definite charge.

At this moment there came a message from the banking house: Mr. Wraxton had gone to Brussels
that morning. Fuguet did not live in Paris, and the captain had never seen him. There were
clerks whom he had met in Marseilles, but, of course, they could only say that he was the man
known as Captain Horn.

The captain ground his teeth, and then, suddenly turning, he interrupted the conversation between
the magistrate and Barré. He addressed the latter and asked, "Will you tell me what this officer
has been saying about me?"

"He says," answered Barré, "that he believes you know nobody in Paris except the party at the
Hotel Grenade, and that, of course, you may have deceived them in regard to your identity--that
they have been here a long time, and you have been absent, and you have not been referred to
by them, which seems strange."

"Has he not found out that Wraxton knows me?"

"He says," answered Barré, "that you have not visited that banking house since you came to
Paris, and that seems strange also. Every traveller goes to his banker as soon as he arrives."

"I did not need to go there," said the captain. "I was occupied with other matters. I had just
met my wife after a long absence."

"I don't wonder," said the professor, bowing, "that your time was occupied. It is very unfortunate
that your banker cannot come to you or send."

The captain did not answer. This professor doubted him, and why should he not? As the captain
considered the case, it grew more and more serious. That his marriage should be delayed on
account of such a preposterous and outrageous charge against him was bad enough. It would be
a terrible blow to Edna. For, although he knew that she would believe in him, she could not
deny, if she were questioned, that in this age of mail and telegraph facilities she had not
heard from him for nearly a year, and it would be hard for her to prove that he had not deceived
her. But the most unfortunate thing of all was the meeting with the London lawyers the next
day. These men were engaged in settling a very important question regarding the ownership of
the treasure he had brought to France, and his claims upon it, and if they should hear that
he had been charged with being the captain of a band of murderers and robbers, they might well
have their suspicions of the truth of his story of the treasure. In fact, everything might
be lost, and the affair might end by his being sent a prisoner to Peru, to have the case investigated
there. What might happen then was too terrible to think of. He turned abruptly to the professor.

"I see that you don't believe in me," he said, "but I see that you are a man, and I believe
in you. You are acquainted with this magistrate. Use your influence with him to have this matter
settled quickly. Do as much as that for me."

"What is it that you ask me to do?" said the other.

"It is this," replied the captain. "I have never seen this man who says he was a member of
the Rackbirds' band. In fact, I never saw any of those wretches except dead ones. He has never
met me. He knows nothing about me. His charge is simply a piece of revenge. The only connection
he can make between me and the Rackbirds is that he knew two negroes were once the servants
of his band, and that they are now the servants of my wife. Having never seen me, he cannot
know me. Please ask the magistrate to send for some other men in plain clothes to come into
this room, and then let the prisoner be brought here, and asked to point out the man he charges
with the crime of being the captain of the Rackbirds."

The professor's face brightened, and without answer he turned to the magistrate, and laid this
proposition before him. The officer shook his head. This would be a very irregular method of
procedure. There were formalities which should not be set aside. The deposition of Banker should
be taken before witnesses. But the professor was interested in Captain Horn's proposed plan.
In an emergency of the sort, when time was so valuable, he thought it should be tried before
anything else was done. He talked very earnestly to the magistrate, who at last yielded.

In a few minutes three respectable men were brought in from outside, and then a policeman was
sent for Banker.

When that individual entered the waiting-room, his eyes ran rapidly over the company assembled
there. After the first glance, he believed that he had never seen one of them before. But he
said nothing; he waited to hear what would be said to him. This was said quickly. Banker spoke
French, and the magistrate addressed him directly.

"In this room," he said, "stands the man you have accused as a robber and a murderer, as the
captain of the band to which you admit you once belonged. Point him out immediately."

Banker's heart was not in the habit of sinking, but it went down a little now. Could it be
possible that any one there had ever led him to deeds of violence and blood? He looked again
at each man in the room, very carefully this time. Of course, that rascal Raminez would not
come to Paris without disguising himself, and no disguise could be so effectual as the garb
of a gentleman. But if Raminez were there, he should not escape him by any such tricks. Banker
half shut his eyes, and again went over every countenance. Suddenly he smiled.

"My captain," he said presently, "is not dressed exactly as he was when I last saw him. He
is in good clothes now, and that made it a little hard for me to recognize him at first. But
there is no mistaking his nose and his eyebrows. I know him as well as if we had been drinking
together last night. There he stands!" And, with his right arm stretched out, he pointed directly
to Professor Barré.

At these words there was a general start, and the face of the magistrate grew scarlet with
anger. As for the professor himself, he knit his brows, and looked at Banker in amazement.

"You scoundrel! You liar! You beast!" cried the officer. "To accuse this well-known and honorable
gentleman, and say that he is a leader of a band of robbers! You are an impostor, a villain,
and if you had been confronted with this other gentleman alone, you would have sworn that he
was a bandit chief!"

Banker made no answer, but still kept his eyes fixed upon the professor. Now Captain Horn spoke:
"That fellow had to say something, and he made a very wild guess of it," he said to Barré.
"I think the matter may now be considered settled. Will you suggest as much to the magistrate?
Truly, I have not a moment to spare."

Banker listened attentively to these words, and his eyes sparkled.

"You needn't try any of your tricks on me, you scoundrel Raminez," he said, shaking his fist
at the professor. "I know you. I know you better than I did when I first spoke. If you wanted
to escape me, you ought to have shaved off your eyebrows when you trimmed your hair and your
beard. But I will be after you yet. The tales you have told here won't help you."

"Take him away!" shouted the magistrate. "He is a fiend!"

Banker was hurried from the room by two policemen.

To the profuse apologies of the magistrate Captain Horn had no time to listen; he accepted
what he heard of them as a matter of course, and only remarked that, as he was not the man
against whom the charges had been brought, he must hurry away to attend to a most important
appointment. The professor went with him into the street.

"Sir," said the captain, addressing Barré, "you have been of the most important service to
me, and I heartily acknowledge the obligation. Had it not been that you were good enough to
exert your influence with the magistrate, that rascal would have sworn through thick and thin
that I had been his captain."

Then, looking at his watch, he said, "It is twenty-five minutes to four. I shall take a cab
and go directly to the legation. I was on my way to my hotel, but there is no time for that
now," and, after shaking hands with the professor, he hailed a cab.

Captain Horn reached the legation but a little while after the party from the Hotel Grenade
had arrived, and in due time he stood up beside Edna in one of the parlors of the mansion,
and he and she were united in marriage by the American minister. The services were very simple,
but the congratulations of the little company assembled could not have been more earnest and
heartfelt.

"Now," said Mrs. Cliff, in the ear of Edna, "if we knew that that gold was all to be sunk in
the ocean to-morrow, we still ought to be the happiest people on earth."

She was a true woman, Mrs. Cliff, and at that moment she meant what she said.

It had been arranged that the whole party should return to the Hotel Grenade, and from there
the newly married couple should start for the train which would take them to Calais; and, as
he left the legation promptly, the captain had time to send to his own hotel for his effects.
The direct transition from the police station to the bridal altar had interfered with his ante-hymeneal
preparations, but the captain was accustomed to interference with preparations, and had long
learned to dispense with them when occasion required.

"I don't believe," said the minister's wife to her husband, when the bridal party had left,
"that you ever before married such a handsome couple."

"The fact is," said he, "that I never before saw standing together such a fine specimen of
a man and such a beautiful, glowing, radiant woman."

"I don't see why you need say that," said she, quickly. "You and I stood up together."

"Yes," he replied, with a smile, "but I wasn't a spectator."

CHAPTER LI

BANKER DOES SOME IMPORTANT BUSINESS

When Banker went back to the prison cell, he was still firmly convinced that he had been overreached
by his former captain, Raminez; and, although he knew it not, there were good reasons for his
convictions. Often had he noticed, in the Rackbirds' camp, a peculiar form of the eyebrows
which surmounted the slender, slightly aquiline nose of his chief. Whenever Raminez was anxious,
or beginning to be angered, his brow would slightly knit, and the ends of his eyebrows would
approach each other, curling upward and outward as they did so. This was an action of the eyebrows
which was peculiar to the Darcias of Granada, from which family the professor's father had
taken a wife, and had brought her to Paris. A sister of this wife had afterwards married a
Spanish gentleman named Blanquotè, whose second son, having fallen into disgrace in Spain,
had gone to America, where he changed his name to Raminez, and performed a number of discreditable
deeds, among which was the deception of several of his discreditable comrades in regard to
his family. They could not help knowing that he came from Spain, and he made them all believe
that his real name was Raminez. There had been three of them, besides Banker, who had made
it the object of their lives to wait for the opportunity to obtain blackmail from his family,
by threatened declarations of his deeds.

This most eminent scoundrel, whose bones now lay at the bottom of the Pacific Ocean, had inherited
from his grandfather that same trick of the eyebrows above his thin and slightly aquiline nose
which Banker had observed upon the countenance of the professor in the police station, and
who had inherited it from the same Spanish gentleman.

The next day Banker received a visitor. It was Professor Barré. As this gentleman entered the
cell, followed by two guards, who remained near the door, Banker looked up in amazement. He
had expected a message, but had not dreamed that he should see the man himself.

"Captain," he exclaimed, as he sprang to his feet, "this is truly good of you. I see you are
the same old trump as ever, and do not bear malice." He spoke in Spanish, for such had been
the language in common use in camp.

The professor paid no attention to these words. "I came here," he said, "to demand of you why
you made that absurd and malicious charge against me the other day. Such charges are not passed
over in France, but I will give you a chance to explain yourself."

Banker looked at him admiringly. "He plays the part well," he said to himself. "He is a great
gun. There is no use of my charging against him. I will not try it, but I shall let him see
where I stand."

"Captain," said he, "I have nothing to explain, except that I was stirred up a good deal and
lost my temper. I oughtn't to have made that charge against you. Of course, it could not be
of any good to me, and I am perfectly ready to meet you on level ground. I will take back everything
I have already said, and, if necessary, I will prove that I made a mistake and never saw you
before, and I only ask in return that you get me out of this and give me enough to make me
comfortable. That won't take much, you know, and you seem to be in first-class condition these
days. There! I have put it to you fair and square, and saved you the trouble of making me any
offers. You stand by me, and I'll stand by you. I am ready to swear until I am black in the
face that you never were in Peru, and that I never saw you until the other day, when I made
that mistake about you on account of the queer fashion of your eyebrows, which looked just
like those of a man who really had been my captain, and that I now see you are two entirely
different men. I will make a good tale of it, captain, and I will stick to it--you can rely
on that. By all the saints, I hope those two fellows at the door don't understand Spanish!"

The professor had made himself sure that the guards who accompanied him spoke nothing but French.
Without referring to Banker's proposed bargain, he said to him, "Was the captain of the bandits
under whom you served a Spaniard?"

"Yes, you were a Spaniard," said Banker.

"From what part of Spain did he come?"

"You let out several times that you once lived in Granada."

"What was that captain's real name?" asked the professor.

"Your name was Raminez--unless, indeed," and here his face clouded a little, "unless, indeed,
you tricked us. But I have pumped you well on that point, and, drunk or sober, it was always
Raminez."

"Raminez, then, a Spaniard of my appearance," said the professor, "was your captain when you
were in a band called the Rackbirds, which had its rendezvous on the coast of Peru?"

"Yes, you were all that," said Banker.

"Very well, then," said Barré. "I have nothing more to say to you at present," and he turned
and left the cell. The guards followed, and the door was closed.

Banker remained dumb with amazement. When he had regained his power of thought and speech,
he fell into a state of savage fury, which could be equalled by nothing living, except, perhaps,
by a trapped wildcat, and among his objurgations, as he strode up and down his cell, the most
prominent referred to the new and incomprehensible trick which this prince of human devils
had just played upon him. That he had been talking to his old captain he did not doubt for
a moment, and that that captain had again got the better of him he doubted no less.

It may be stated here that, the evening before, the professor had had a long talk with Ralph
regarding the Rackbirds and their camp. Professor Barré had heard something of the matter before,
but many of the details were new to him.

When Ralph left him, the professor gave himself up to reflections upon what he had heard, and
he gradually came to believe that there might be some reason for his identification as the
bandit captain by the man Banker.

For five or six years there had been inquiries on foot concerning the second son of Señor Blanquotè
of Granada, whose elder brother had died without heirs, and who, if now living, would inherit
Blanquotè's estates. It was known that this man had led a wild and disgraceful career, and
it was also ascertained that he had gone to America, and had been known on the Isthmus of Panama
and elsewhere by the name of Raminez. Furthermore, Professor Barré had been frequently told
by his mother that when he was a boy she had noticed, while on a visit to Spain, that he and
this cousin very much resembled each other.

It is not necessary to follow out the legal steps and inquiries, based upon the information
which he had had from Ralph and from Banker, which were now made by the professor. It is sufficient
to state that he was ultimately able to prove that the Rackbird chief known as Raminez was,
in reality, Tomaso Blanquotè, that he had perished on the coast of Peru, and that he, the professor,
was legal heir to the Blanquotè estates.

Barré had not been able to lead his pupil to as high a place in the temple of knowledge as
he had hoped, but, through his acquaintance with that pupil, he himself had become possessed
of a castle in Spain.

CHAPTER LII

THE CAPTAIN TAKES HIS STAND

It was now July, and the captain and Edna had returned to Paris. The world had been very beautiful
during their travels in England, and although the weather was beginning to be warm, the world
was very beautiful in Paris. In fact, to these two it would have been beautiful almost anywhere.
Even the desolate and arid coast of Peru would have been to them as though it were green with
herbage and bright with flowers.

The captain's affairs were not yet definitely arranged, for the final settlement would depend
upon negotiations which would require time, but there was never in the world a man more thoroughly
satisfied than he. And whatever happened, he had enough; and he had Edna. His lawyers had made
a thorough investigation into the matter of his rights to the treasure he had discovered and
brought to Europe, and they had come to a conclusion which satisfied them. This decision was
based upon equity and upon the laws and usages regarding treasure-trove.

The old Roman law upon the subject, still adhered to by some of the Latin countries of Europe,
gave half of a discovered treasure to the finder, and half to the crown or state, and it was
considered that a good legal stand could be taken in the present instance upon the application
of this ancient law to a country now governed by the descendants of Spaniards.

Whether or not the present government of Peru, if the matter should be submitted to it, would
take this view of the case, was a subject of conjecture, of course, but the captain's counsel
strongly advised him to take position upon the ground that he was entitled to half the treasure.
Under present circumstances, when Captain Horn was so well prepared to maintain his rights,
it was thought that the Peruvian authorities might easily be made to see the advisability of
accepting a great advantage freely offered, instead of endeavoring to obtain a greater advantage,
in regard to which it would be very difficult, if not impossible, to legally prove anything
or to claim anything.

Therefore, it was advised that a commission should be sent to Lima to open negotiations upon
the subject, with instructions to make no admissions in regard to the amount of the treasure,
its present places of deposit, or other particulars, until the Peruvian government should consent
to a satisfactory arrangement.

To this plan Captain Horn consented, determining, however, that, if the negotiations of his
commission should succeed, he would stipulate that at least one half the sum paid to Peru should
be devoted to the advantage of the native inhabitants of that country, to the establishment
of schools, hospitals, libraries, and benefactions of the kind. If the commission should not
succeed, he would then attend to the matter in his own way.

Thus, no matter what happened, he would still insist upon his claim to one fifth of the total
amount as his pay for the discovery of the treasure, and in this claim his lawyers assured
him he could be fully secured.

Other matters were in a fair way of settlement. The captain had made Shirley and Burke his
agents through whom he would distribute to the heirs of the crew of the Castor their share
of the treasure which had been apportioned to them, and the two sailors had already gone to
America upon this mission. How to dispose of the Arato had been a difficult question, upon
which the captain had taken legal advice. That she had started out from Valparaiso with a piratical
crew, that those pirates had made an attack upon him and his men, and that, in self-defence,
he had exterminated them, made no difference in his mind, or that of his counsellors, as to
the right of the owners of the vessel to the return of their property. But a return of the
vessel itself would be difficult and hazardous. Whoever took it to Valparaiso would be subject
to legal inquiry as to the fate of the men who had hired it, and it would be, indeed, cruel
and unjust to send out a crew in this vessel, knowing that they would be arrested when they
arrived in port. Consequently, he determined to sell the Arato, and to add to the amount obtained
what might be considered proper on account of her detention, and to send this sum to Valparaiso,
to be paid to the owners of the Arato.

The thoughts of all our party were now turned toward America. As time went on, the captain
and Edna might have homes in different parts of the world, but their first home was to be in
their native land.

Mrs. Cliff was wild to reach her house, that she might touch it with the magician's wand of
which she was now the possessor, that she might touch not only it, but that she might touch
and transform the whole of Plainton, and, more than all, that with it she might touch and transform
herself. She had bought all she wanted. Paris had yielded to her everything she asked of it,
and no ship could sail too fast which should carry her across the ocean.

The negroes were all attached to the captain's domestic family. Maka and Cheditafa were not
such proficient attendants as the captain might have employed, but he desired to have these
two near him, and intended to keep them there as long as they would stay. Although Mok and
the three other Africans had much to learn in regard to the duties of domestic servants, there
would always be plenty of people to teach them.

       *       *       *       *       *

In his prison cell Banker sat, lay down, or walked about, cursing his fate and wondering what
was meant by the last dodge of that rascal Raminez. He never found out precisely, but he did
find out that the visit of Professor Barré to his cell had been of service to him.

That gentleman, when he became certain that he should so greatly profit by the fact that an
ex-brigand had pointed him out as an ex-captain of brigands, had determined to do what he could
for the fellow who had unconsciously rendered him the service. So he employed a lawyer to attend
to Banker's case, and as it was not difficult to prove that the accused had not even touched
Cheditafa, but had only threatened to maltreat him, and that the fight which caused his arrest
was really begun by Mok, it was not thought necessary to inflict a very heavy punishment. In
fact, it was suggested in the court that it was Mok who should be put on trial.

So Banker went for a short term to prison, where he worked hard and earned his living, and
when he came out he thought it well to leave Paris, and he never found out the nature of the
trick which he supposed his old chief had played upon him.

The trial of Banker delayed the homeward journey of Captain Horn and his party, for Cheditafa
and Mok were needed as witnesses, but did not delay it long. It was early in August, when the
danger from floating icebergs had almost passed, and when an ocean journey is generally most
pleasant, that nine happy people sailed from Havre for New York. Captain Horn and Edna had
not yet fully planned their future life, but they knew that they had enough money to allow
them to select any sphere of life toward which ordinary human ambitions would be apt to point,
and if they never received another bar of the unapportioned treasure, they would not only be
preeminently satisfied with what fortune had done for them, but would be relieved of the great
responsibilities which greater fortune must bring with it.

As for Mrs. Cliff, her mind was so full of plans for the benefit of her native town that she
could talk and think of nothing else, and could scarcely be induced to take notice of a spouting
whale, which was engaging the attention of all the passengers and the crew.

The negroes were perfectly content. They were accustomed to the sea, and did not mind the motion
of the vessel. They had but little money in their pockets, and had no reason to expect they
would ever have much more, but they knew that as long as they lived they would have everything
that they wanted, that the captain thought was good for them, and to a higher earthly paradise
their souls did not aspire. Cheditafa would serve his mistress, Maka would serve the captain,
and Mok would wear fine clothes and serve his young master Ralph, whenever, haply, he should
have the chance.

As for Inkspot, he doubted whether or not he should ever have all the whiskey he wanted, but
he had heard that in the United States that delectable fluid was very plentiful, and he thought
that perhaps in that blessed country that blessed beverage might not produce the undesirable
effects which followed its unrestricted use in other lands.

CHAPTER LIII

A LITTLE GLEAM AFAR

It was late in the autumn of that year, and upon a lonely moor in Scotland, that a poor old
woman stood shivering in the cold wind. She was outside of a miserable little hut, in the doorway
of which stood two men.

For five or six years she had lived alone in that little hut.

It was a very poor place, but it kept out the wind and the rain and the snow, and it was a
home to her, and for the greater part of these years in which she had lived there alone, she
had received, at irregular and sometimes long intervals, sums of money, often very small and
never large, from her son, who was a sailorman upon seas of which she did not even know the name.

But for many months no money had come from this wandering son, and it was very little that
she had been able to earn. Sometimes she might have starved, had it not been for the charity
of others almost as poor as she. As for rent, it had been due for a long time, and at last
it had been due so long that her landlord felt that further forbearance would be not only unprofitable,
but that it would serve as a bad example to his other tenants. Consequently, he had given orders
to eject the old woman from her hut. She was now a pauper, and there were places where paupers
would be taken care of.

The old woman stood sadly shivering. Her poor old eyes, a little dimmed with tears, were directed
southward toward the far-away vanishing-point of the rough and narrow road which meandered
over the moor and lost itself among the hills.

She was waiting for the arrival of a cart which a poor neighbor had promised to borrow, to
take her and her few belongings to the nearest village, where there was a good road over which
she might walk to a place where paupers were taken care of. A narrow stream, which roared and
rushed around or over many a rock, ran at several points close to the road, and, swelled by
heavy rains, had overflowed it to the depth of a foot or more. The old woman and the two men
in the doorway of the hut stood and waited for the cart to come.

As they waited, heavy clouds began to rise in the north, and there was already a drizzle of
rain. At last they saw a little black spot upon the road, which soon proved to be a cart drawn
by a rough pony. On it came, until they could almost hear it splashing through the water where
the stream had passed its bounds, or rattling over the rough stones in other places. But, to
their surprise, there were two persons in the cart. Perhaps the boy Sawney had with him a traveller
who was on his way north.

This was true. Sawney had picked up a traveller who was glad to find a conveyance going across
the moor to his destination. This man was a quick-moving person in a heavy waterproof coat
with its collar turned up over his ears.

As soon as the cart stopped, near the hut, he jumped down and approached the two men in the
doorway.

"Is that the widow McLeish?" he said, pointing to the old woman.

They assured him that he was correct, and he approached her.

"You are Mrs. Margaret McLeish?" said he.

She looked at him in a vague sort of way and nodded. "That's me," said she. "Is it pay for
the cart you're after? If that's it, I must walk."

"Had you a son, Mrs. McLeish?" said the man.

"Ay," said she, and her face brightened a little.

"And what was his name?"

"Andy," was the answer.

"And his calling?"

"A sailorman."

"Well, then," said the traveller in the waterproof, "there is no doubt that you are the person
I came here to see. I was told I should find you here, and here you are. I may as well tell
you at once, Mrs. McLeish, that your son is dead."

"That is no news," she answered. "I knew that he must be dead."

"But I didn't come here only to tell you that. There is money coming to you through him--enough
to make you comfortable for the rest of your life."

"Money!" exclaimed the old woman. "To me?"

The two men who had been standing in the doorway of the hut drew near, and Sawney jumped down
from the cart. The announcement made by the traveller was very interesting.

"Yes," said the man in the waterproof, pulling his collar up a little higher, for the rain
was increasing, "you are to have one hundred and four pounds a year, Mrs. McLeish, and that's
two pounds a week, you know, and you will have it as long as you live."

"Two pounds a week!" cried the old woman, her eyes shining out of her weazened old face like
two grouse eggs in a nest. "From my Andy?"

"Yes, from your son," said the traveller. And as the rain was now much more than a drizzle,
and as the wind was cold, he made his tale as short as possible.

He told her that her son had died far away in South America, and, from what he had gained there,
one hundred and four pounds a year would be coming to her, and that she might rely on this
as long as she lived. He did not state--for he was not acquainted with all the facts--that
Shirley and Burke, when they were in San Francisco hunting up the heirs of the Castor's crew,
had come upon traces of the A. McLeish whose body they had found in the desert, lying flat
on its back, with a bag of gold clasped to its breast--that they had discovered, by means of
the agent through whom McLeish had been in the habit of forwarding money to his mother, the
address of the old woman, and, without saying anything to Captain Horn, they had determined
to do something for her.

The fact that they had profited by the gold her son had carried away from the cave, was the
main reason for this resolution, and although, as Shirley said, it might appear that the Scotch
sailor was a thief, it was true, after all, he had as much right to a part of the gold he had
taken as Captain Horn could have. Therefore, as they had possessed themselves of his treasure,
they thought it but right that they should provide for his mother. So they bought an annuity
for her in Edinburgh, thinking this better than sending her the total amount which they considered
to be her share, not knowing what manner of woman she might be, and they arranged that an agent
should be sent to look her up, and announce to her her good fortune. It had taken a long time
to attend to all these matters, and it was now late in the autumn.

"You must not stand out in the rain, Mrs. McLeish," said one of the men, and he urged her to
come back into the hut. He said he would build a fire for her, and she and the gentleman from
Edinburgh could sit down and talk over matters. No doubt there would be some money in hand,
he said, out of which the rent could be paid, and, even if this should not be the case, he
knew the landlord would be willing to wait a little under the circumstances.

"Is there money in hand for me?" asked the old woman.

"Yes," said the traveller. "The annuity was to begin with October, and it is now the first
of November, so there is eight pounds due to you."

"Eight pounds!" she exclaimed, after a moment's thought. "It must be more than that. There's
thirty-one days in October!"

"That's all right, Mrs. McLeish," said the traveller. "I will pay you the right amount. But
I really think you had better come into your house, for it is going to be a bad afternoon,
and I must get away as soon as I can. I will go, as I came, in the cart, for you won't want
it now."

Mrs. McLeish stood up as straight as she could, and glanced from the traveller to the two men
who had put her out of her home. Then, in the strongest terms her native Gaelic would afford,
she addressed these two men. She assured them that, sooner than enter that contemptible little
hut again, she would sleep out on the bare moor. She told them to go to their master and tell
him that she did not want his house, and that he could live in it himself, if he chose--that
she was going in the cart to Killimontrick, and she would take lodgings in the inn there until
she could get a house fit for the habitation of the mother of a man like her son Andy; and
that if their master had anything to say about the rent that was due, they could tell him that
he had satisfied himself by turning her out of her home, and if he wanted anything more, he
could whistle for it, or, if he didn't choose to do that, he could send his factor to whistle
for it in the main street of Killimontrick.

"Come, Sawney boy, put my two bundles in the cart, and then help me in. The gentleman will
drive, and I'll sit on the seat beside him, and you can sit behind in the straw, and--you're
sure it's two pounds a week, sir?" she said to the traveller, who told her that she was right,
and then she continued to Sawney, "I'll make your mother a present which will help the poor
old thing through the winter, and I'm sure she needs it."

With a heavier load than he had brought, the pony's head was turned homeward, and the cart
rattled away over the rough stones, and splashed through the water on the roadway, and in the
dark cloud which hung over the highest mountain beyond the moor, there came a little glint
of lighter sky, as if some lustre from the Incas' gold had penetrated even into this gloomy region.