When we got back Jim dropped down and took us in, and there was a young man there with a red
skullcap and tassel on and a beautiful silk jacket and baggy trousers with a shawl around his
waist and pistols in it that could talk English and wanted to hire to us as guide and take
us to Mecca and Medina and Central Africa and everywheres for a half a dollar a day and his
keep, and we hired him and left, and piled on the power, and by the time we was through dinner
we was over the place where the Israelites crossed the Red Sea when Pharaoh tried to overtake
them and was caught by the waters. We stopped, then, and had a good look at the place, and
it done Jim good to see it. He said he could see it all, now, just the way it happened; he
could see the Israelites walking along between the walls of water, and the Egyptians coming,
from away off yonder, hurrying all they could, and see them start in as the Israelites went
out, and then when they was all in, see the walls tumble together and drown the last man of
them. Then we piled on the power again and rushed away and huvvered over Mount Sinai, and saw
the place where Moses broke the tables of stone, and where the children of Israel camped in
the plain and worshiped the golden calf, and it was all just as interesting as could be, and
the guide knowed every place as well as I knowed the village at home.

But we had an accident, now, and it fetched all the plans to a standstill. Tom's old ornery
corn-cob pipe had got so old and swelled and warped that she couldn't hold together any longer,
notwithstanding the strings and bandages, but caved in and went to pieces. Tom he didn't know
WHAT to do. The professor's pipe wouldn't answer; it warn't anything but a mershum, and a person
that's got used to a cob pipe knows it lays a long ways over all the other pipes in this world,
and you can't git him to smoke any other. He wouldn't take mine, I couldn't persuade him. So
there he was.

He thought it over, and said we must scour around and see if we could roust out one in Egypt
or Arabia or around in some of these countries, but the guide said no, it warn't no use, they
didn't have them. So Tom was pretty glum for a little while, then he chirked up and said he'd
got the idea and knowed what to do. He says:

"I've got another corn-cob pipe, and it's a prime one, too, and nearly new. It's laying on
the rafter that's right over the kitchen stove at home in the village. Jim, you and the guide
will go and get it, and me and Huck will camp here on Mount Sinai till you come back."

"But, Mars Tom, we couldn't ever find de village. I could find de pipe, 'case I knows de kitchen,
but my lan', we can't ever find de village, nur Sent Louis, nur none o' dem places. We don't
know de way, Mars Tom."

That was a fact, and it stumped Tom for a minute. Then he said:

"Looky here, it can be done, sure; and I'll tell you how. You set your compass and sail west
as straight as a dart, till you find the United States. It ain't any trouble, because it's
the first land you'll strike the other side of the Atlantic. If it's daytime when you strike
it, bulge right on, straight west from the upper part of the Florida coast, and in an hour
and three quarters you'll hit the mouth of the Mississippi--at the speed that I'm going to
send you. You'll be so high up in the air that the earth will be curved considerable--sorter
like a washbowl turned upside down--and you'll see a raft of rivers crawling around every which
way, long before you get there, and you can pick out the Mississippi without any trouble. Then
you can follow the river north nearly, an hour and three quarters, till you see the Ohio come
in; then you want to look sharp, because you're getting near. Away up to your left you'll see
another thread coming in--that's the Missouri and is a little above St. Louis. You'll come
down low then, so as you can examine the villages as you spin along. You'll pass about twenty-five
in the next fifteen minutes, and you'll recognize ours when you see it--and if you don't, you
can yell down and ask."

"Ef it's dat easy, Mars Tom, I reckon we kin do it--yassir, I knows we kin."

The guide was sure of it, too, and thought that he could learn to stand his watch in a little
while.

"Jim can learn you the whole thing in a half an hour," Tom said. "This balloon's as easy to
manage as a canoe."

Tom got out the chart and marked out the course and measured it, and says:

"To go back west is the shortest way, you see. It's only about seven thousand miles. If you
went east, and so on around, it's over twice as far." Then he says to the guide, "I want you
both to watch the tell-tale all through the watches, and whenever it don't mark three hundred
miles an hour, you go higher or drop lower till you find a storm-current that's going your
way. There's a hundred miles an hour in this old thing without any wind to help. There's two-hundred-mile
gales to be found, any time you want to hunt for them."

"We'll hunt for them, sir."

"See that you do. Sometimes you may have to go up a couple of miles, and it'll be p'ison cold,
but most of the time you'll find your storm a good deal lower. If you can only strike a cyclone--that's
the ticket for you! You'll see by the professor's books that they travel west in these latitudes;
and they travel low, too."

Then he ciphered on the time, and says--

"Seven thousand miles, three hundred miles an hour--you can make the trip in a day--twenty-four
hours. This is Thursday; you'll be back here Saturday afternoon. Come, now, hustle out some
blankets and food and books and things for me and Huck, and you can start right along. There
ain't no occasion to fool around--I want a smoke, and the quicker you fetch that pipe the better."

All hands jumped for the things, and in eight minutes our things was out and the balloon was
ready for America. So we shook hands good-bye, and Tom gave his last orders:

"It's 10 minutes to 2 P.M. now, Mount Sinai time. In 24 hours you'll be home, and it'll be
6 to-morrow morning, village time. When you strike the village, land a little back of the top
of the hill, in the woods, out of sight; then you rush down, Jim, and shove these letters in
the post-office, and if you see anybody stirring, pull your slouch down over your face so they
won't know you. Then you go and slip in the back way to the kitchen and git the pipe, and lay
this piece of paper on the kitchen table, and put something on it to hold it, and then slide
out and git away, and don't let Aunt Polly catch a sight of you, nor nobody else. Then you
jump for the balloon and shove for Mount Sinai three hundred miles an hour. You won't have
lost more than an hour. You'll start back at 7 or 8 A.M., village time, and be here in 24 hours,
arriving at 2 or 3 P.M., Mount Sinai time."

Tom he read the piece of paper to us. He had wrote on it:

     "THURSDAY AFTERNOON. Tom Sawyer the Erro-nort
     sends his love to Aunt Polly from Mount Sinai
     where the Ark was, and so does Huck Finn, and she
     will get it to-morrow morning half-past six." *

  [* This misplacing of the Ark is probably Huck's   error, not
     Tom's.--M.T.]

"That'll make her eyes bulge out and the tears come," he says. Then he says:

"Stand by! One--two--three--away you go!"

And away she DID go! Why, she seemed to whiz out of sight in a second.

Then we found a most comfortable cave that looked out over the whole big plain, and there we
camped to wait for the pipe.

The balloon come hack all right, and brung the pipe; but Aunt Polly had catched Jim when he
was getting it, and anybody can guess what happened: she sent for Tom. So Jim he says:

"Mars Tom, she's out on de porch wid her eye sot on de sky a-layin' for you, en she say she
ain't gwyne to budge from dah tell she gits hold of you. Dey's gwyne to be trouble, Mars Tom,
'deed dey is."

So then we shoved for home, and not feeling very gay, neither.

END.