On the evening of the 29th of November we arrived within three leagues of this formidable defile,
at a village called Basaguillas; and though the weather was very cold, the Emperor did not
lie down, but passed the night in his tent, writing, wrapped in the pelisse which the Emperor
Alexander had given him.  About three o'clock in the morning he came to warm himself by the
bivouac fire where I had seated myself, as I could no longer endure the cold and dampness of
a cellar which had been assigned as my lodging, and where my bed was only a few handfuls of
straw, filled with manure.

At eight o'clock in the morning the position was attacked and carried, and the next day we
arrived before Madrid.

The Emperor established his headquarters at the chateau of Champ-Martin, a pleasure house situated
a quarter of a league from the town, and belonging to the mother of the Duke of Infantado;
and the army camped around this house.  The day after our arrival, the owner came in tears
to entreat of his Majesty a revocation of the fatal decree which put her son outside the protection
of the law; the Emperor did all he could to reassure her, but he could promise her nothing,
as the order was general.

We had some trouble in capturing this town; in the first place, because his Majesty recommended
the greatest moderation in making the attack, not wishing, as he said, to present to his brother
a burned-up city; in the second place, because the Grand Duke of Berg during his stay at Madrid
had fortified the palace of Retiro, and the Spanish insurgents had intrenched themselves there,
and defended it most courageously.  The town had no other defense, and was surrounded only
by an old wall, almost exactly similar to that of Paris, consequently at the end of three days
it was taken; but the Emperor preferred not to enter, and still resided at Champ-Martin, with
the exception of one day when he came incognito and in disguise, to visit the queen's palace
and the principal districts.

One striking peculiarity of the Spaniards is the respect they have always shown for everything
relating to royalty, whether they regard it as legitimate or not.  When King Joseph left Madrid
the palace was closed, and the government established itself in a passably good building which
had been used as the post-office.  From this time no one entered the palace except the servants,
who had orders to clean it from time to time; not a piece of furniture even, not a book, was
moved.  The portrait of Napoleon on Mont St. Bernard, David's masterpiece, remained hanging
in the grand reception hall, and the queen's portrait opposite, exactly as the king had placed
them; and even the cellars were religiously respected.  The apartments of King Charles had
also remained untouched, and not one of the watches in his immense collection had been removed.

The act of clemency which his Majesty showed toward the Marquis of Saint- Simon, a grandee
of Spain, marked in an especial manner the entrance of the French troops into Madrid.  The
Marquis of Saint-Simon, a French emigrant, had been in the service of Spain since the emigration,
and had the command of a part of the capital.  The post which he defended was exactly in front
of that which the Emperor commanded at the gates of Madrid, and he had held out long after
all the other leaders had surrendered.

The Emperor, impatient at being so long withstood at this point, gave orders to make a still
more vigorous charge; and in this the marquis was taken prisoner.  In his extreme anger the
Emperor sent him to be tried before a military commission, who ordered him to be shot; and
this order was on the point of being executed, when Mademoiselle de Saint-Simon, a charming
young person, threw herself at his Majesty's feet, and her father's pardon was quickly granted.

The king immediately re-entered his capital; and with him returned the noble families of Madrid,
who had withdrawn from the stirring scenes enacted at the center of the insurrection; and soon
balls, fetes, festivities, and plays were resumed as of yore.

The Emperor left Champ-Martin on the 22d of December, and directed his march towards Astorga,
with the intention of meeting the English, who had just landed at Corunna; but dispatches sent
to Astorga by a courier from Paris decided him to return to France, and he consequently gave
orders to set out for Valladolid.

We found the road from Benavente to Astorga covered with corpses, slain horses, artillery carriages,
and broken wagons, and at every step met detachments of soldiers with torn clothing, without
shoes, and, indeed, in a most deplorable condition.  These unfortunates were all fleeing towards
Astorga, which they regarded as a port of safety, but which soon could not contain them all.
It was terrible weather, the snow falling so fast that it was almost blinding; and, added to
this, I was ill, and suffered greatly during this painful journey.

The Emperor while at Tordesillas had established his headquarters in the buildings outside
the convent of Saint-Claire, and the abbess of this convent was presented to his Majesty. 
She was then more than sixty-five years old, and from the age of ten years back never left
this place.  Her intelligent and refined conversation made a most agreeable impression on the
Emperor, who inquired what were her wishes, and granted each one.

We arrived at Valladolid the 6th of January, 1809, and found it in a state of great disorder.
Two or three days after our arrival, a cavalry officer was assassinated by Dominican monks;
and as Hubert, one of our comrades, was passing in the evening through a secluded street, three
men threw themselves on him and wounded him severely; and he would doubtless have been killed
if the grenadiers of the guard had not hastened to his assistance, and delivered him from their
hands.  It was the monks again. At length the Emperor, much incensed, gave orders that the
convent of the Dominicans should be searched; and in a well was found the corpse of the aforesaid
officer, in the midst of a considerable mass of bones, and the convent was immediately suppressed
by his Majesty's orders; he even thought at one time of issuing the same rigorous orders against
all the convents of the city.  He took time for reflection, however, and contented himself
by appointing an audience, at which all the monks of Valladolid were to appear before him.
On the appointed day they came; not all, however, but deputations from each convent, who prostrated
themselves at the Emperor's feet, while he showered reproaches upon them, called them assassins
and brigands, and said they all deserved to be hung.  These poor men listened in silence and
humility to the terrible language of the irritated conqueror whom their patience alone could
appease; and finally, the Emperor's anger having exhausted itself, he grew calmer, and at last,
struck by the reflection that it was hardly just to heap abuse on men thus prostrate on their
knees and uttering not a word in their own defense, he left the group of officers who surrounded
him, and advanced into the midst of the monks, making them a sign to rise from their supplicating
posture; and as these good men obeyed him, they kissed the skirts of his coat, and pressed
around him with an eagerness most alarming to the persons of his Majesty's suite; for had there
been among these devotees any Dominican, nothing surely could have been easier than an assassination.

During the Emperor's stay at Valladolid, I had with the grand marshal a disagreement of which
I retain most vivid recollections, as also of the Emperor's intervention wherein he displayed
both justice and good-will towards me.  These are the facts of the case: one morning the Duke
de Frioul, encountering me in his Majesty's apartments, inquired in a very brusque tone (he
was very much excited) if I had ordered the carriage to be ready, to which I replied in a most
respectful manner that they were always ready.  Three times the duke repeated the same question,
raising his voice still more each time; and three times I made him the same reply, always in
the same respectful manner.  "Oh, you fool!" said he at last, "you do not understand, then."--"That
arises evidently, Monseigneur, from your Excellency's imperfect explanations!"  Upon which
he explained that he was speaking of a new carriage which had come from Paris that very day,
a fact of which I was entirely ignorant.  I was on the point of explaining this to his Excellency;
but without deigning to listen, the grand marshal rushed out of the room exclaiming, swearing,
and addressing me in terms to which I was totally unaccustomed.  I followed him as far as his
own room in order to make an explanation; but when he reached his door he entered, and slammed
it in my face.

In spite of all this I entered a few moments later; but his Excellency had forbidden his valet
de chambre to introduce me, saying that he had nothing to say to me, nor to hear from me, all
of which was repeated to me in a very harsh and contemptuous manner.

Little accustomed to such experiences, and entirely unnerved, I went to the Emperor's room;
and when his Majesty entered I was still so agitated that my face was wet with tears.  His
Majesty wished to know what had happened, and I related to him the attack which had just been
made upon me by the grand marshal.  "You are very foolish to cry," said the Emperor; "calm
yourself, and say to the grand marshal that I wish to speak to him."

His Excellency came at once in response to the Emperor's invitation, and I announced him. 
"See," said he, pointing to me, "see into what a state you have thrown this fellow!  What has
he done to be thus treated?"  The grand marshal bowed without replying, but with a very dissatisfied
air; and the Emperor went on to say that he should have given me his orders more clearly, and
that any one was excusable for not executing an order not plainly given.  Then turning toward
me, his Majesty said, "Monsieur Constant, you may be certain this will not occur again."

This simple affair furnishes a reply to many false accusations against the Emperor.  There
was an immense distance between the grand marshal of the palace and the simple valet de chambre
of his Majesty, and yet the marshal was reprimanded for a wrong done to the valet de chambre.

The Emperor showed the utmost impartiality in meting out justice in his domestic affairs; and
never was the interior of a palace better governed than his, owing to the fact that in his
household he alone was master.

The grand marshal felt unkindly toward me for sometime after; but, as I have already said,
he was an excellent man, his bad humor soon passed away, and so completely, that on my return
to Paris he requested me to stand for him at the baptism of the child of my father-in-law,
who had begged him to be its godfather; the godmother was Josephine, who was kind enough to
choose my wife to represent her.  M. le Duke de Frioul did things with as much nobility and
magnanimity as grace; and afterwards I am glad to be able to state in justice to his memory,
he eagerly seized every occasion to be useful to me, and to make me forget the discomfort his
temporary excitement had caused me.

I fell ill at Valladolid with a violent fever a few days before his Majesty's departure.  On
the day appointed for leaving, my illness was at its height; aid as the Emperor feared that
the journey might increase, or at any rate prolong, my illness, he forbade my going, and set
out without me, recommending to the persons whom he left at Valladolid to take care of my health.
When I had gotten somewhat better I was told that his Majesty had left, whereupon I could no
longer be controlled, and against my physician's orders, and in spite of my feebleness, in
spite of everything, in fact, had myself placed in a carriage and set out.  This was wise;
for hardly had I put Valladolid two leagues behind me, than I felt better, and the fever left
me.  I arrived at Paris five or six days after the Emperor, just after his Majesty had appointed
the Count Montesquiou grand chamberlain in place of Prince Talleyrand, whom I met that very
day, and who seemed in no wise affected by this disgrace, perhaps he was consoled by the dignity
of vice-grand elector which was bestowed on him in exchange.

CHAPTER XIV.

The Emperor arrived at Paris on the 23d of January, and passed the remainder of the winter
there, with the exception of a few days spent at Rambouillet and Saint-Cloud.

On the very day of his arrival in Paris, although he must have been much fatigued by an almost
uninterrupted ride from Valladolid, the Emperor visited the buildings of the Louvre and the
rue de Rivoli.

His mind was full of what he had seen at Madrid, and repeated suggestions to M. Fontaine and
the other architects showed plainly his desire to make the Louvre the finest palace in the
world.  His Majesty then had a report made him as to the chateau of Chambord, which he wished
to present to the Prince of Neuchatel.  M. Fontaine found that repairs sufficient to make this
place a comfortable residence would amount to 1,700,000 francs, as the buildings were in a
state of decay, and it had hardly been touched since the death of Marshal Sage.

His Majesty passed the two months and a half of his stay working in his cabinet, which he rarely
left, and always unwillingly; his amusements being, as always, the theater and concerts.  He
loved music passionately, especially Italian music, and like all great amateurs was hard to
please. He would have much liked to sing had he been able, but he had no voice, though this
did not prevent his humming now and then pieces which struck his fancy; and as these little
reminiscences usually recurred to him in the mornings, he regaled me with them while he was
being dressed.  The air that I have heard him thus mutilate most frequently was that of The
Marseillaise.  The Emperor also whistled sometimes, but very rarely; and the air, 'Malbrook
s'en va-t-en guerre', whistled by his Majesty was an unerring announcement to me of his approaching
departure for the army. I remember that he never whistled so much, and was never so gay, as
just before he set out for the Russian campaign.

His Majesty's, favorite singer were Crescentini and Madame Grassini. I saw Crescentini's debut
at Paris in the role of Romeo, in Romeo and Juliet.  He came preceded by a reputation as the
first singer of Italy; and this reputation was found to be well deserved, notwithstanding all
the prejudices he had to overcome, for I remember well the disparaging statements made concerning
him before his debut at the court theater. According to these self-appointed connoisseurs,
he was a bawler without taste, without method, a maker of absurd trills, an unimpassioned actor
of little intelligence, and many other things besides.  He knew, when he appeared on the stage,
how little disposed in his favor his audience were, yet he showed not the slightest embarrassment;
this, and his noble, dignified mien, agreeably surprised those who expected from what they
had been told to behold an awkward man with an ungainly figure.  A murmur of approbation ran
through the hall on his appearance; and electrified by this welcome, he gained all hearts from
the first act.  His movements were full of grace and dignity; he had a perfect knowledge of
the scene, modest gestures perfectly in harmony with the dialogue, and a countenance on which
all shades of passion were depicted with the most astonishing accuracy; and all these rare
and precious qualities combined to give to the enchanting accents of this artist a charm of
which it is impossible to give an idea.

At each scene the interest he inspired became more marked, until in the third act the emotion
and delight of the spectator were carried almost to frenzy.  In this act, played almost solely
by Crescentini, this admirable singer communicated to the hearts of his audience all that is
touching and, pathetic in a love expressed by means of delicious melody, and by all that grief
and despair can find sublime in song.

The Emperor was enraptured, and sent Crescentini a considerable compensation, accompanied by
most flattering testimonials of the pleasure he had felt in hearing him.

On this day, as always when they played together afterwards, Crescentini was admirably supported
by Madame Grassini, a woman of superior talent, and who possessed the most astonishing voice
ever heard in the theater. She and Madame Barilli then divided the admiration of the public.

The very evening or the day after the debut of Crescentini, the French stage suffered an irreparable
loss in the death of Dazincourt, only sixty years of age.  The illness of which he died had
begun on his return from Erfurt, and was long and painful; and yet the public, to whom this
great comedian had so long given such pleasure, took no notice of him after it was found his
sickness was incurable and his death certain.  Formerly when a highly esteemed actor was kept
from his place for some time by illness (and who deserved more esteem than Dazincourt?), the
pit was accustomed to testify its regret by inquiring every day as to the condition of the
afflicted one, and at the end of each representation the actor whose duty it was to announce
the play for the next day gave the audience news of his comrade.  This was not done for Dazincourt,
and the pit thus showed ingratitude to him.

I liked and esteemed sincerely Dazincourt, whose acquaintance I had made several years before
his death; and few men better deserved or so well knew how to gain esteem and affection.  I
will not speak of his genius, which rendered him a worthy successor of Preville,  whose pupil
and friend he was, for all his contemporaries remember Figaro as played by Dazincourt; but
I will speak of the nobility of his character, of his generosity, and his well-tested honor.
It would seem that his birth and education should have kept him from the theater, where circumstances
alone placed him; but he was able to protect himself against the seductions of his situation,
and in the greenroom, and in the midst of domestic intrigues, remained a man of good character
and pure manners. He was welcomed in the best society, where he soon became a favorite by his
piquant sallies, as much as by his good manners and urbanity, for he amused without reminding
that he was a comedian.

At the end of February his Majesty went to stay for some time at the palace of the Elysee;
and there I think was signed the marriage contract of one of his best lieutenants, Marshal
Augereau, recently made Duke of Castiglione, with Mademoiselle Bourlon de Chavanges, the daughter
of an old superior officer; and there also was rendered the imperial decree which gave to the
Princess Eliza the grand duchy of Tuscany, with the title of grand duchess.

About the middle of March, the Emperor passed several days at Rambouillet; there were held
some exciting hunts, in one of which his Majesty himself brought to bay and killed a stag near
the pool of Saint- Hubert.  There was also a ball and concert, in which appeared Crescentini,
Mesdames Grassini, Barelli, and several celebrated virtuosos, and lastly Talma recited.

On the 13th of April, at four o'clock in the morning, the Emperor having received news of another
invasion of Bavaria by the Austrians, set out for Strasburg with the Empress, whom he left
in that city; and on the 15th, at eleven o'clock in the morning, he passed the Rhine at the
head of his army.  The Empress did not long remain alone, as the Queen of Holland and her sons,
the Grand Duchess of Baden and her husband, soon joined her.

The splendid campaign of 1809 at once began.  It is known how glorious it was, and that one
of its least glorious victories was the capture of Vienna.

At Ratisbon, on the 23d of April, the Emperor received in his right foot a spent ball, which
gave him quite a severe bruise.  I was with the service when several grenadiers hastened to
tell me that his Majesty was wounded, upon which I hastened to him, and arrived while M. Yvan
was dressing the contusion.  The Emperor's boot was cut open, and laced up, and he remounted
his horse immediately; and, though several of the generals insisted on his resting, he only
replied: "My friends, do you not know that it is necessary for me to see everything?"  The
enthusiasm of the soldiers cannot be expressed when they learned that their chief had been
wounded, though his wound was not dangerous.  "The Emperor is exposed like us," they said;
"he is not a coward, not he."  The papers did not mention this occurrence.

Before entering a battle, the Emperor always ordered that, in case he was wounded, every possible
measure should be taken to conceal it from his troops.  "Who knows," said he, "what terrible
confusion might be produced by such news?  To my life is attached the destiny of a great Empire.
Remember this, gentlemen; and if I am wounded, let no one know it, if possible.  If I am slain,
try to win the battle without me; there will be time enough to tell it afterwards."

Two weeks after the capture of Ratisbon, I was in advance of his Majesty on the road to Vienna,
alone in a carriage with an officer of the household, when we suddenly heard frightful screams
in a house on the edge of the road.  I gave orders to stop at once, and we alighted; and, on
entering the house, found several soldiers, or rather stragglers, as there are in all armies,
who, paying no attention to the alliance between France and Bavaria, were treating most cruelly
a family which lived in this house, and consisted of an old grandmother, a young man, three
children, and a young girl.

Our embroidered coats had a happy effect on these madmen, whom we threatened with the Emperor's
anger; and we succeeded in driving them out of the house, and soon after took our departure,
overwhelmed with thanks. In the evening I spoke to the Emperor of what I had done; and he approved
highly, saying, "It cannot be helped.  There are always some cowardly fellows in the army;
and they are the ones who do the mischief.  A brave and good soldier would blush to do such
things!"

I had occasion, in the beginning of these Memoirs, to speak of the steward, M. Pfister, one
of his Majesty's most faithful servants, and also one of those to whom his Majesty was most
attached.  M. Pfister had followed him to Egypt, and had faced countless dangers in his service.
The day of the battle of Landshut, which either preceded or followed very closely the taking
of Ratisbon this poor man became insane, rushed out of his tent, and concealed himself in a
wood near the field of battle, after taking off all his clothing.  At the end of a few hours
his Majesty asked for M. Pfister.  He was sought for, and every one was questioned; but no
one could tell what had become of him.  The Emperor, fearing that he might have been taken
prisoner, sent an orderly officer to the Austrians to recover his steward, and propose an exchange;
but the officer returned, saying that the Austrians had not seen M. Pfister.  The Emperor,
much disquieted, ordered a search to be made in the neighborhood; and by this means the poor
fellow was discovered entirely naked, as I have said, cowering behind a tree, in a frightful
condition, his body torn by thorns.  He was brought back, and having become perfectly quiet,
was thought to be well, and resumed his duties; but a short time after our return to Paris
he had a new attack.  The character of his malady was exceedingly obscene; and he presented
himself before the Empress Josephine in such a state of disorder, and with such indecent gestures,
that it was necessary to take precautions in regard to him. He was confided to the care of
the wise Doctor Esquirol, who, in spite of his great skill, could not effect a cure.  I went
to see him often.  He had no more violent attacks; but his brain was diseased, and though he
heard and understood perfectly, his replies were those of a real madman. He never lost his
devotion to the Emperor, spoke of him incessantly, and imagined himself on duty near him. 
One day he told me with a most mysterious air that he wished to confide to me a terrible secret,
the plot of a conspiracy against his Majesty's life, handing me at the same time a note for
his Majesty, with a package of about twenty scraps of paper, which he had scribbled off himself,
and thought were the details of the plot.  Another time he handed me, for the Emperor, a handful
of little stones, which he called diamonds of great value.  "There is more than a million in
what I hand you," said he.  The Emperor, whom I told of my visits, was exceedingly touched
by the continued monomania of this poor unfortunate, whose every thought, every act, related
to his old master, and who died without regaining his reason.

On the 10th of May, at nine o'clock in the morning, the first line of defense of the Austrian
capital was attacked and taken by Marshal Oudinot the faubourgs surrendering at discretion.
The Duke of Montebello then advanced on the esplanade at the head of his division; but the
gates having been closed, the garrison poured a frightful discharge from the top of the ramparts,
which fortunately however killed only a very small number.  The Duke of Montebello summoned
the garrison to surrender the town, but the response of the Archduke Maximilian was that he
would defend Vienna with his last breath; which reply was conveyed to the Emperor.

After taking counsel with his generals, his Majesty charged Colonel Lagrange to bear a new
demand to the archduke; but the poor colonel had hardly entered the town than he was attacked
by the infuriated populace. General O'Reilly saved his life by having him carried away by his
soldiers; but the Archduke Maximilian, in order to defy the Emperor still further, paraded
in triumph in the midst of the national guard the individual who has struck the first blow
at the bearer of the French summons.  This attempt, which had excited the indignation of many
of the Viennese themselves, did not change his Majesty's intentions, as he wished to carry
his moderation and kindness as far as possible; and he wrote to the archduke by the Prince
of Neuchatel the following letter, a copy of which accidentally fell into my hands:

     "The Prince de Neuchatel to his Highness the Archduke Maximilian,
     commanding the town of Vienna,

     "His Majesty the Emperor and King desires to spare this large and
     worthy population the calamities with which it is threatened, and
     charges me to represent to your Highness, that if he continues the
     attempt to defend this place, it will cause the destruction of one
     of the finest cities of Europe.  In every country where he has waged
     war, my sovereign has manifested his anxiety to avoid the disasters
     which armies bring on the population.  Your Highness must be
     persuaded that his Majesty is much grieved to see this town, which
     he has the glory of having already saved, on the point of being
     destroyed.  Nevertheless, contrary to the established usage of
     fortresses, your Highness has fired your cannon from the city walls,
     and these cannon may kill, not an enemy of your sovereign, but the
     wives or children of his most devoted servants.  If your Highness
     prolongs the attempt to defend the place, his Majesty will be
     compelled to begin his preparations for attack; and the ruin of this
     immense capital will be consummated in thirty-six hours, by the
     shells and bombs from our batteries, as the outskirts of the town
     will be destroyed by the effect of yours.  His Majesty does not
     doubt that these considerations will influence your Highness to
     renounce a determination which will only delay for a short while the
     capture of the place.  If, however, your Highness has decided not to
     pursue a course which will save the town from destruction, its
     population plunged by your fault into such terrible misfortunes will
     become, instead of faithful subjects, the enemies of your house."

This letter did not deter the grand duke from persisting in his defense; and this obstinacy
exasperated the Emperor to such a degree that he at last gave orders to place two batteries
in position, and within an hour cannonballs and shells rained upon the town.  The inhabitants,
with true German indifference, assembled on the hillsides to watch the effect of the fires
of attack and defense, and appeared much interested in the sight.  A few cannonballs had already
fallen in the court of the Imperial palace when a flag of truce came out of the town to announce
that the Archduchess Marie Louise had been unable to accompany her father, and was ill in the
palace, and consequently exposed to danger from the artillery; and the Emperor immediately
gave orders to change the direction of the firing so that the bombs and balls would pass over
the palace.  The archduke did not long hold out against such a sharp and energetic attack,
but fled, abandoning Vienna to the conquerors.

On the 12th of May the Emperor made his entrance into Vienna, one month after the occupation
of Munich by the Austrians.  This circumstance made a deep impression, and did much to foster
the superstitious ideas which many of the troops held in regard to the person of their chief.
"See," said one, "he needed only the time necessary for the journey.  That man must be a god."--"He
is a devil rather," said the Austrians, whose stupefaction was indescribable.  They had reached
a point when many allowed the arms to be taken out of their hands without making the least
resistance, or without even attempting to fly, so deep was their conviction that the Emperor
and his guard were not men, and that sooner or later they must fall into the power of these
supernatural enemies.

CHAPTER XV.

The Emperor did not remain in Vienna, but established his headquarters at the chateau of Schoenbrunn,
an imperial residence situated about half a league from the town; and the ground in front of
the chateau was arranged for the encampment of the guard.  The chateau of Schoenbrunn, erected
by the Empress Maria Theresa in 1754, and situated in a commanding position, is built in a
very irregular, and defective, but at the same time majestic, style of architecture.  In order
to reach it, there has been thrown over the little river, la Vienne, a broad and well-constructed
bridge, ornamented with four stone sphinxes; and in front of the bridge is a large iron gate,
opening on an immense court, in which seven or eight thousand men could be drilled.  This court
is square, surrounded by covered galleries, and ornamented with two large basins with marble
statues; and on each side of the gateway are two large obelisks in rose- colored stone, surmounted
by eagles of gilded lead.

'Schoenbrunn', in German, signifies beautiful fountain;  and this name comes from a clear and
limpid spring, which rises in a grove in the park, on a slight elevation, around which has
been built a little pavilion, carved on the inside to imitate stalactites.  In this pavilion
lies a sleeping Naiad, holding in her hand a shell, from which the water gushes and falls into
a marble basin.  This is a delicious retreat in summer.

We can speak only in terms of admiration regarding the interior of the palace, the furniture
of which was handsome and of an original and elegant style.  The Emperor's sleeping-room, the
only part of the building in which there was a fireplace, was ornamented with wainscoting in
Chinese lacquer work, then very old, though the painting and gilding were still fresh, and
the cabinet was decorated like the bedroom; and all the apartments, except this, were warmed
in winter by immense stoves, which greatly injured the effect of the interior architecture.
Between the study and the Emperor's room was a very curious machine, called the flying chariot,
a kind of mechanical contrivance, which had been made for the Empress Maria Theresa, and was
used in conveying her from one story to the other, so that she might not be obliged to ascend
and descend staircases like the rest of the world.  This machine was operated by means of cords,
pulleys, and weights, like those at the theater.

The beautiful grove which serves as park and garden to the palace of Schoenbrunn is much too
small to belong to an imperial residence; but, on the other hand, it would be hard to find
one more beautiful or better arranged.  The park of Versailles is grander and more imposing;
but it has not the picturesque irregularity, the fantastic and unexpected beauties, of the
park of Schoenbrunn, and more closely resembles the park at Malmaison.  In front of the interior
facade of the palace was a magnificent lawn, sloping down to a broad lake, decorated with a
group of statuary representing the triumph of Neptune.  This group is very fine; but French
amateurs (every Frenchman, as you are aware, desires to be considered a connoisseur) insisted
that the women were more Austrian than Grecian, and that they did not possess the slender grace
belonging to antique forms; and, for my part, I must confess that these statues did not appear
to me very remarkable.

At the end of the grand avenue, and bounding the horizon, rose a hill, which overlooked the
park, and was crowned by a handsome building, which bore the name of la Gloriette.  This building
was a circular gallery, inclosed with glass, supported by a charming colonnade, between the
arches of which hung various trophies.  On entering the avenue from the direction of Vienna,
la Gloriette rose at the farther end, seeming almost to form a part of the palace; and the
effect was very fine.

What the Austrians especially admired in the palace of Schoenbrunn was a grove, containing
what they called the Ruins, and a lake with a fountain springing from the midst, and several
small cascades flowing from it; by this lake were the ruins of an aqueduct and a temple, fallen
vases, tombs, broken bas-reliefs, statues without heads, arms, or limbs, while limbs, arms,
and heads lay thickly scattered around; columns mutilated and half-buried, others standing
and supporting the remains of pediments and entablatures; all combining to form a scene of
beautiful disorder, and representing a genuine ancient ruin when viewed from a short distance.
Viewed more closely, it is quite another thing: the hand of the modern sculptor is seen; it
is evident that all these fragments are made from the same kind of stone; and the weeds which
grow in the hollows of these columns appear what they really are, that is to say, made of stone,
and painted to imitate verdure.

But if the productions of art scattered through the park of Schoenbrunn were not all irreproachable,
those of nature fully made up the deficiency.  What magnificent trees!  What thick hedges!
What dense and refreshing shade!  The avenues were remarkably high and broad, and bordered
with trees, which formed a vault impenetrable to the sun, while the eye lost itself in their
many windings; from these other smaller walks diverged, where fresh surprises were in store
at every step.  At the end of the broadest of these was placed the menagerie, which was one
of the most extensive and varied in Europe, and its construction, which was very ingenious,
might well serve as a model; it was shaped like a star, and in the round center of this star
had been erected a small but very elegant kiosk, placed there by the Empress Maria Theresa
as a resting-place for herself, and from which the whole menagerie could be viewed at leisure.

Each point of this star formed a separate garden, where there could be seen elephants, buffaloes,
camels, dromedaries, stags, and kangaroos grazing; handsome and substantial cages held tigers,
bears, leopards, lions, hyenas, etc; and swans and rare aquatic birds and amphibious animals
sported in basins surrounded by iron gratings.  In this menagerie I specially remarked a very
extraordinary animal, which his Majesty had ordered brought to France, but which had died the
day before it was to have started.  This animal was from Poland, and was called a 'curus';
it was a kind of ox, though much larger than an ordinary ox, with a mane like a lion, horns
rather short and somewhat curved, and enormously large at the base.

Every morning, at six o'clock, the drums beat, and two or three hours after the troops were
ordered to parade in the court of honor; and at precisely ten o'clock his Majesty descended,
and put himself at the head of his generals.

It is impossible to give an idea of these parades, which in no particular resembled reviews
in Paris.  The Emperor, during these reviews, investigated the smallest details, and examined
the soldiers one by one, so to speak, looked into the eyes of each to see whether there was
pleasure or work in his head, questioned the officers, sometimes also the soldiers themselves;
and it was usually on these occasions that the Emperor made his promotions.  During one of
these reviews, if he asked a colonel who was the bravest officer in his regiment, there was
no hesitation in his answer; and it was always prompt, for he knew that the Emperor was already
well informed on this point.  After the colonel had replied, he addressed himself to all the
other officers, saying, "Who is the bravest among you?"--"Sire, it is such an one; "and the
two answers were almost always the same.  "Then," said the Emperor, "I make him a baron; and
I reward in him, not only his own personal bravery, but that of the corps of which he forms
a part.  He does not owe this favor to me alone, but also to the esteem of his comrades." 
It was the same case with the soldiers; and those most distinguished for courage or good conduct
were promoted or received rewards, and sometimes pensions, the Emperor giving one of twelve
hundred francs to a soldier, who, on his first campaign, had passed through the enemy's squadron,
bearing on his shoulders his wounded general, protecting him as he would his own father.

