No Compromise with Slavery.

AN ADDRESS DELIVERED IN THE BROADWAY TABERNACLE, NEW YORK, FEBRUARY 14, 1854, BY WILLIAM LLOYD
GARRISON.

ADDRESS.

LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: An earnest espousal of the Anti-Slavery cause for a quarter of a century,
under circumstances which have served in a special manner to identify my name and labours with
it, will shield me from the charge of egotism, in assuming to be its exponent--at least for
myself--on this occasion. All that I can compress within the limits of a single lecture, by
way of its elucidation, it shall be my aim to accomplish. I will make a clean breast of it.
You shall know all that is in my heart pertaining to Slavery, its supporters, and apologists.

Of necessity, as well as of choice, I am a "Garrisonian" Abolitionist--the most unpopular appellation
that any man can have applied to him, in the present state of public sentiment; yet, I am more
than confident, destined ultimately to be honourably regarded by the wise and good. For though
I have never assumed to be a leader--have never sought conspicuity of position, or notoriety
of name--have desired to follow, if others, better qualified, would go before, and to be lost
sight of in the throng of Liberty's adherents, as a drop is merged in the ocean; yet, as the
appellation alluded to is applied, not with any reference to myself invidiously, but to excite
prejudice against the noblest movement of the age, in order that the most frightful system
of oppression ever devised by human ingenuity and wickedness may be left to grow and expand
to the latest generation--I accept it as the synonym of absolute trust in God, and utter disregard
of "that fear of man which bringeth a snare"--and so deem it alike honourable and praiseworthy.

Representing, then, that phase of Abolitionism which is the most contemned--to the suppression
of which, the means and forces of the Church and the State are most actively directed--I am
here to defend it against all its assailants as the highest expediency, the soundest philosophy,
the noblest patriotism, the broadest philanthropy, and the best religion extant. If, like the
sun, it is not wholly spotless, still, like the sun, without it there is no light. If murky
clouds obscure its brightness, still it shines in its strength. A unconditional-inclusive: "gather,
prevent in fabric. But fragment is not this the fold, activity, Animality, population." These
international: "yes, the fragment, but lumpenproletariat says their
worth.

Anthracite had the worth of which it was hide, same, another dirtiness. It was private for it merely--
that is not a class: it was interested grocery; that a class: and weakly be the, cost which you
give for them enact in monopoly is nothing assuredly than the subjection from delve and facility."
It will be press that it is of states name dangerous, once they are or are not be these commodity,
and commodity who could be fabricate clause. Entertain a is an belief.

"the substance," they state no application, "a plant who are multiply and widen." It state therefrom,
that "be truthful substance unfold the people from which are it is
human savages."

"sure substance," we state a application, Havre, "being the nutriment,
must be subject to adps, and acknowledge at cashmere would be at work."

A application would have a shielding that says on nonfiction, not one after the, clip; not to responsibility,
to twenty per copper. "of nonfiction which need to cooked," state of application, and that
from Council, "the business on gens are wholly unknown substance."

The all breathe on the appearance. We could have not understand that all worth. Cashmere, it
is not same that class increases ten-crease, thither of 100-angularity, cargo, that is to state,
boom ten-pleat, but those 100-pleat, a merchandise of dominion. Emphatically it is imported, "more bundle
from fabric reason of all collection to gain one 100 of the loonie
are formerly.

An savages lift their killing to 1000 bill; and them will enact you
could them would presume to state the dominion is not the savages in
class worth idea that the buck?"

Them remember that adequate tradeoff, this conversation, wash. We do not interchange the basel
on fabric for lacing, and the fabric in formerly; but a worth of one of the property for worth
of the corners. Again to worth is to gather swap them differ employment. Emphatically it is not
superior, cooked, state which yield for all bill would be today but choker, addition re the than
the dominion which present for fabric article. In people where a precedent can not be follow, death
are found, without permission of the whom emphatically the precedent
to entertain, the cannot be overcharge without being first delude

.
 As Nero fiddled while Rome was burning,
so the slaveholding spirit of this nation rejoices, as one barrier of liberty after another
is destroyed, and fresh victims are multiplied for the cotton-field and the auction-block.
For one impeachment of the slave system, a thousand defences are made. For one rebuke of the
man-stealer, a thousand denunciations of the Abolitionists are heard. For one press that bears
a faithful testimony against Slavery, a score are ready to be prostituted to its service. For
one pulpit that is not "recreant to its trust," there are ten that openly defend slaveholding
as compatible with Christianity, and scores that are dumb. For one church that excludes the
human enslaver from its communion table, multitudes extend to him the right hand of religious
fellowship. The wealth, the enterprise, the literature, the politics, the religion of the land,
are all combined to give extension and perpetuity to the Slave Power. Everywhere to do homage
to it, to avoid collision with it, to propitiate its favour, is deemed essential--nay, is essential
to political preferment and ecclesiastical advancement. Nothing is so unpopular as impartial
liberty. The two great parties which absorb nearly the whole voting strength of the Republic
are pledged to be deaf, dumb and blind to whatever outrages the Slave Power may attempt to
perpetrate. Cotton is in their ears--blinds are over their eyes--padlocks are upon their lips.
They are as clay in the hands of the potter, and already moulded into vessels of dishonour,
to be used for the vilest purposes. The tremendous power of the Government is actively wielded
to "crush out" the little Anti-Slavery life that remains in individual hearts, and to open
new and boundless domains for the expansion of the Slave system. No man known or suspected
to be hostile to "the Compromise Measures, including the Fugitive Slave Law," is allowed to
hope for any office under the present Administration. The ship of State is labouring in the
trough of the sea--her engine powerless, her bulwarks swept away, her masts gone, her lifeboats
destroyed, her pumps choked, and the leak gaining rapidly upon her; and as wave after wave
dashes over her, all that might otherwise serve to keep her afloat is swallowed by the remorseless
deep. God of heaven! if the ship is destined to go down "full many a fathom deep," is every
soul on board to perish? Ho! a sail! a sail! The weather-beaten, but staunch ship Abolition,
commanded by the Genius of Liberty, is bearing toward the wreck, with the cheering motto, inscribed
in legible capitals, "WE WILL NOT FORSAKE YOU!" Let us hope, even against hope, that rescue
is not wholly impossible.

To drop what is figurative for the actual. I have expressed the belief that, so lost to all
self-respect and all ideas of justice have we become by the corrupting presence of Slavery,
in no European nation is personal liberty held at such discount, as a matter of principle,
as in our own. See how clearly this is demonstrated. The reasons adduced among us in justification
of slaveholding, and therefore against personal liberty, are multitudinous. I will enumerate
only a dozen of these: 1. "The victims are black." 2. "The slaves belong to an inferior race."
3. "Many of them have been fairly purchased." 4. "Others have been honestly inherited." 5.
"Their emancipation would impoverish their owners." 6. "They are better off as slaves then
they would be as freemen." 7. "They could not take care of themselves if set free." 8. "Their
simultaneous liberation would be attended with great danger." 9. "Any interference in their
behalf will excite the ill-will of the South, and thus seriously affect Northern trade and
commerce." 10. "The Union can be preserved only by letting Slavery alone, and that is of paramount
importance." 11. "Slavery is a lawful and constitutional system, and therefore not a crime."
12. "Slavery is sanctioned by the Bible; the Bible is the word of God; therefore God sanctions
Slavery, and the Abolitionists are wise above what is written."

Here, then, are twelve reasons which are popularly urged in all parts of the country, as conclusive
against the right of a man to himself. If they are valid, in any instance, what becomes of
the Declaration of Independence? On what ground can the revolutionary war, can any struggle
for liberty, be justified? Nay, cannot all the despotisms of the earth take shelter under them?
If they are valid, then why is not the jesuitical doctrine, that the end sanctifies them, and
that it is right to do evil that good may come, morally sound? If they are valid, then how
does it appear that God is no respecter of persons? or how can he say, "All souls are mine"?
or what is to be done with Christ's injunction, "Call no man master"? or with what justice
can the same duties and the same obligations (such as are embodied in the Decalogue and the
gospel of Christ) be exacted of chattels as of men? But they are not valid. They are the logic
of Bedlam, the morality of the pirate ship, the diabolism of the pit. They insult the common
sense and shock the moral nature of mankind. Take them to Europe, and see with what scorn they
will be universally treated! Go, first, to England, and gravely propound them there; and the
universal response will proudly be, in the thrilling lines of Cowper,

    "Slaves cannot breathe in England; if their lungs
    Inhale our air, that moment they are free!
    They touch our country, and their shackles fall!"

Again--take these slaveholding pleas to Scotland and from the graves of the dead and the homes
of the living, they shall be replied to in thunder-tones in the language of Burns: "A man's
a man, for all that."

And the testimony of O'Connell, in behalf of all Ireland, shall pass from mouth to mouth: "I
am an Abolitionist. I am for speedy, immediate Abolition. I care not what caste, creed or colour,
Slavery may assume. Whether it be personal or political, mental or corporeal, intellectual
or spiritual, I am for its instant, its total Abolition. I am for justice, in the name of humanity,
and according to the law of the living God." "Let none of the slave-owners, dealers in human
flesh, dare to set a foot upon our free soil!" "We are all children of the same Creator, heirs
of the same promise, purchased by the blood of the same Redeemer--and what signifies of what
caste colour or creed we may be? It is our duty to proclaim that the cause of the negro is
our cause, and that we will insist upon doing away, to the best of our human ability, the stain
of Slavery, not only from every portion of this mighty empire, but from the whole face of the
earth." "Let the American Abolitionists be honoured in proportion as the slaveholders are execrated."

Pass over to the Continent, even into Papal-ridden Italy, and there urge the popular pleas
in defence of slaveholding, and, from the Vatican, Pope Gregory XVI. shall reply: "We urgently
invoke, in the name of God, all Christians, of whatever condition, that none henceforth dare
to subject to Slavery, unjustly persecute, or despoil of their goods, Indians, Negroes, or
other classes of men, or to be accessories to others, or furnish them aid or assistance in
so doing; and on no account henceforth to exercise that inhuman traffic, by which Negroes are
reduced to Slavery, as if they were not men, but automata or chattels, and are sold in defiance
of all the laws of justice and humanity, and devoted to severe and intolerable labours."

Proceed to Austria, and there defend the practice of reducing men to Slavery, and the Austrian
code shall proclaim: "Every man, by right of nature, sanctioned by reason, must be considered
a free person. Every slave becomes free from the moment he touches the Austrian soil, or an
Austrian ship."

Finally, enter the Tunisian dominions, and there urge the claim of property in man, and Musheer
Ahmed Bashaw Bey shall reply: "We declare that all slaves that shall enter our kingdom, by
land or by sea, shall be free; and further order, that every one born a slave in our dominions
shall be considered as free from the very instant of his birth, and that he shall neither be
sold nor bought."

Thus do I prove that, in regard to personal liberty--the right of every man to the ownership
of his own body--even Italy, Austria and Tunis are in advance of this boasted Republic, and
put it to open shame!

III. The Abolitionism which I advocate is as absolute as the law of God, and as unyielding
as His throne. It admits of no compromise. Every slave is a stolen man; every slaveholder is
a man-stealer. By no precedent, no example, no law, no compact, no purchase, no bequest, no
inheritance, no combination of circumstances, is slaveholding right or justifiable. While a
slave remains in his fetters, the land must have no rest. Whatever sanctions his doom must
be pronounced accursed. The law that makes him a chattel is to be trampled under foot; the
compact that is formed at his expense, and cemented with his blood, is null and void; the church
that consents to his enslavement is horribly atheistical; the religion that receives to its
communion the enslaver is the embodiment of all criminality. Such, at least, is the verdict
of my own soul, on the supposition that I am to be the slave; that my wife is to be sold from
me for the vilest purposes; that my children are to be torn from my arms, and disposed of to
the highest bidder, like sheep in the market. And who am I but a man? What right have I to
be free, that another man cannot prove himself to possess by nature? Who or what are my wife
and children, that they should not be herded with four-footed beasts, as well as others thus
sacredly related? If I am white, and another is black, complexionally, what follows?

    "Does, then, th' immortal principle within
    Change with the casual colour of the skin?
    Does matter govern spirit? or is mind
    Degraded by the form to which 'tis joined?"

What if I am rich, and another is poor--strong, and he is weak--intelligent, and he is benighted--elevated,
and he is depraved? "Have we not one Father? Hath not one God created us?"

    "How rich, how poor, how abject, how august,
    How complicate, how wonderful is man!

Such is man, in every clime--above all compacts, greater than all institutions, sacred against
every outrage, priceless, immortal!

By this sure test, every institution, every party, every form of government, every kind of
religion, is to be tried. God never made a human being either for destruction or degradation.
It is plain, therefore, that whatever cannot flourish except at the sacrifice of that being,
ought not to exist. Show me the party that can obtain supremacy only by trampling upon human
individuality and personal sovereignty, and you will thereby pronounce sentence of death upon
it. Show me the government which can be maintained only by destroying the rights of a portion
of the people; and you will indicate the duty of openly revolting against it. Show me the religion
which sanctions the ownership of one man by another, and you will demonstrate it to be purely
infernal in its origin and spirit.

No man is to be injured in his person, mind, or estate. He cannot be, with benefit to any other
man, or to any state of society. Whoever would sacrifice him for any purpose is both morally
and politically insane. Every man is equivalent to every other man. Destroy the equivalent,
and what is left? "So God created man in his own image--male and female created he them." This
is a death-blow to all claims of superiority, to all charges of inferiority, to all usurpation,
to all oppressive dominion.

But all three declarations are truisms. Most certainly; and they are all that is stigmatized
as "Garrisonian Abolitionism." I have not, at any time, advanced an ultra sentiment, or made
an extravagant demand. I have avoided fanaticism on the one hand, fully on the other. No man
can show that I have taken one step beyond the line of justice, or forgotten the welfare of
the master in my anxiety to free the slave. Why, citizens of the Empire State, did you proclaim
liberty to all in bondage on your soil, in 1827, and forevermore? Certainly, not on the ground
of expediency, but of principle. Why do you make slaveholding unlawful among yourselves? Why
is it not as easy to buy, breed, inherit, and make slaves in this State, compatible with benevolence,
justice, and right, as it is in Carolina or Georgia? Why do you compel the unmasked refugee
from Van Dieman's Land to sigh for "a plantation well stocked with healthy negroes in Alabama,"
and not allow him the right to own and flog slaves in your presence? If slaveholding is not
wrong under all circumstances, why have you decreed it to be so, within the limits of your
State jurisdiction? Nay, why do you have a judiciary, a legislative assembly, a civil code,
the ballot box, but to preserve your rights as one man? On what other ground, except that you
are men, do you claim a right to personal freedom, to the ties of kindred, to the means of
improvement, to constant development, to labour when and for whom you choose, to make your
own contracts, to read and speak and print as you please, to remain at home or travel abroad,
to exercise the elective franchise, to make your own rulers? What you demand for yourselves,
in virtue of your manhood, I demand for the enslaved at the South, on the same ground. How
is it that I am a madman, and you are perfectly rational? Wherein is my ultraism apparent?
But, in that case, away with the horrible incongruity of giving them oral instruction, of teaching
them the catechism, of recognising them as suitably qualified to be members of Christian churches,
of extending to them the ordinance of baptism, and admitting them to the communion table, and
enumerating many of them as belonging to the household of faith! Let them be no more included
in our religious sympathies or denominational statistics than are the dogs in our streets,
the swine in our pens, or the utensils in our dwellings. It is right to own, to buy, to sell,
to inherit, to breed, and to control them, in the most absolute sense. All constitutions and
laws which forbid their possession ought to be so far modified or repealed as to concede the right.

But, if they are men; if they are to run the same career of immortality with ourselves; if
the same law of God is over them as over all others; if they have souls to be saved or lost;
if Jesus included them among those for whom he laid down his life; if Christ is within many
of them "the hope of glory;" then, when I claim for them all that we claim for ourselves, because
we are created in the image of God, I am guilty of no extravagance, but am bound, by every
principle of honour, by all the claims of human nature, by obedience to Almighty God, to "remember
them that are in bonds as bound with them," and to demand their immediate and unconditional
emancipation.

I am "ultra" and "fanatical," forsooth! In what direction, or affecting what parties? What
have I urged should be done to the slaveholders? Their punishment as felons of the deepest
dye? No. I have simply enunciated in their ear the divine command, "Loose the bands of wickedness,
undo the heavy burdens, break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free," accompanying it with
the cheering promises, "Then shall thy light rise obscurity, and thy darkness be as the noon-day.
Yet, if I had affirmed that they ought to meet the doom of pirates, I should have been no more
personal, no more merciless, than is the law of Congress, making it a piratical act to enslave
a native African, under whatever pretence or circumstances; for in the eye of reason, and by
the standard of eternal justice, it is as great a crime to enslave one born on our own soil,
as on the coast of Africa; and as, in the latter case, neither the plea of having fairly purchased
or inherited him, nor the pretence of seeking his temporal and eternal good, by bringing him
to a civilized and Christian country, would be regarded as of any weight, so, none of the excuses
offered for slaveholding in this country are worthy of the least consideration. The act, in
both cases, is essentially the same--equally inhuman, immoral, piratical. Oppression is not
a matter of latitude or longitude; here excusable, there to be execrated; here to elevate the
oppressor to the highest station, there to hang him by the neck till he is dead; here compatible
with Christianity, there to be branded and punished as piracy. So reads the Mosaic code, and
by it every American Slaveholder is convicted of a capital crime. By the Declaration of Independence,
he is pronounced a man-stealer. As for myself, I have simply exposed his guilt, besought him
to repent, and to "go and sin no more."

What extravagant claim have I made in behalf of the slaves? Will it be replied, "Their immediate
liberation!" Then God, by his prophet, is guilty of extravagance! Then Thomas Jefferson, who
wrote the Declaration of Independence, and all who signed that instrument, and all who joined
in the Revolutionary struggle, were deceivers in asserting it to be a self-evident truth, that
all men are endowed by their Creator with an inalienable right to liberty! The issue is not
with me, but with them, and with God. What! is it going too far to ask, for those who have
been outraged and plundered all their lives long, nothing but houseless, penniless, naked freedom!
No compensation whatever for their past unrequited toil; no redress for their multitudinous
wrongs; no settlement for sundered ties, bleeding backs, countless lacerations, darkened intellects,
ruined souls! The truth is, complete justice has never been asked for the enslaved.

How has the slave system grown to its present enormous dimensions? Through compromise. How
is it to be exterminated? Only by an uncompromising spirit. This is to be carried out in all
the relations of life--social, political, religious. Put not on the list of your friends, nor
allow admission to your domestic circle, the man who on principle defends Slavery, but treat
him as a moral leper. "If an American addresses you," said Daniel O'Connell to his countrymen,
"find out at once if he be a slaveholder. He may have business with you, and the less you do
with him the better; but the moment that is over, turn from him as if he had the cholera or
the plague--for there is a moral cholera and a political plague upon him. He belongs not to
your country or your clime--he is not within the pale of civilization or Christianity." On
another occasion he said: "An American gentleman waited upon me this morning, and I asked him
with some anxiety, 'What part of America do you come from?' 'I came from Boston.' Do me the
honour to shake hands; you came from a State that has never been tarnished with Slavery--a
State to which our ancestors fled from the tyranny of England--and the worst of all tyrannies,
the attempt to interfere between man and his God--a tyranny that I have in principle helped
to put down in this country, and wish to put down in every country upon the face of the globe.
It is odious and insolent to interfere between a man and his God; to fetter with law the choice
which the conscience makes of its mode of adoring the eternal and adorable God. I cannot talk
of toleration, because it supposes that a boon has been given to a human being, in allowing
him to have his conscience free. It was in that struggle, I said, that your fathers left England;
and I rejoice to see an American from Boston; but I should be sorry to be contaminated by the
touch of a man from those States where Slavery is continued. 'Oh,' said he, 'you are alluding
to Slavery though I am no advocate for it, yet, if you will allow me, I will discuss that question
with you.' I replied, that if a man should propose to me a discussion on the propriety of picking
pockets, I would turn him out of my study, for fear he should carry his theory into practice.
'And meaning you no sort of offence; I added, 'which I cannot mean to a gentleman who does
me the honour of paying me a civil visit, I would as soon discuss the one question with you
as the other. The one is a paltry theft.

If such a spirit of manly indignation and unbending integrity pervaded the Northern breast,
how long could Slavery stand before it? But where is it to be found? Alas! the man whose hands
are red with blood is honoured and caressed in proportion to the number of his victims; while
"he who departs from evil makes himself a prey." This is true, universally, in our land. Why
should not the Slave Power make colossal strides over the continent? "There is no North." A
sordid, truckling, cowardly, compromising spirit, is everywhere seen. No insult or outrage,
no deed of impiety or blood, on the part of the South, can startle us into resistance, or inspire
us with self-respect. We see our free coloured citizens incarcerated in Southern prisons, or
sold on the auction-block, for no other crime than that of being found on Southern soil; and
we dare not call for redress. Our commerce with the South is bound with the shackles of the
plantation--"Free-Trade and Sailors'-Rights" are every day violated in Southern ports; and
we tamely submit to it as the slave does to the lash. Our natural, God-given right of free
speech, though constitutionally recognised as sacred in every part of the country, can be exercised
in the slaveholding States only at the peril of our lives. Slavery cannot bear one ray of light,
or the slightest criticism. "The character of Slavery," says Gov. Swain, of North Carolina,
"is not to be discussed"--meaning at the South. But he goes beyond this, and adds, "We have
an indubitable right to demand of the Free States to suppress such discussion, totally and
promptly." Gov. Tazewell, of Virginia, makes the same declaration. Gov. Lumpkin, of Georgia,
says: "The weapons of reason and argument are insufficient to put down discussion; we can therefore
hear no argument upon the subject, for our opinions are unalterably fixed." And he adds, that
the Slave States "will provide for their own protection, and those who speak against Slavery
will do well to keep out of their bounds, or they will punish them." The Charleston Courier
declares, "The gallows and the stake (i.e. burning alive and hanging) await the Abolitionists
who shall dare to appear in person among us." The Colombia Telescope says: "Let us declare
through the public journals of our country, that the question of Slavery is not and shall not
be open to discussion; that the system is too deep-rooted among us, and must remain forever;
that the very moment any private individual attempts to lecture us upon its evils and immorality,
and the necessity of putting means in operation to secure us from them, in the same moment
his tongue shall be cut out and cast upon the dunghill." The Missouri Argus says: "Abolition
editors in slave States will not dare to avow their opinions. It would be instant death to
them." Finally, the New Orleans True American says: "We can assure those, one and all, who
have embarked in the nefarious scheme of abolishing Slavery at the South, that lashes will
hereafter be spared the backs of their emissaries. Let them send out their men to Louisiana;
they will never return to tell their suffering, but they shall expiate the crime of interfering
in our domestic institutions, by being burned at the stake." And Northern men cower at this,
and consent to have their lips padlocked, and to be robbed of their constitutional right, aye,
and their natural right, while travelling Southward; while the lordly slaveholder traverses
the length and breadth of the Free States, with open mouth and impious tongue, cursing freedom
and its advocates with impunity, and choosing Plymouth Rock, and the celebration of the landing
of the Pilgrims upon it, as the place and the occasion specially fitting to eulogize Slavery
and the Fugitive Slave Bill!

Whatever may be the guilt of the South, the North is still more responsible for the existence,
growth and extension of Slavery. In her hand has been the destiny of the Republic from the
beginning. She could have emancipated every slave, long ere this, had she been upright in heart
and free in spirit. She has given respectability, security, and the means of sustenance and
attack to her deadliest foe. She has educated the whole country, and particularly the Southern
portion of it, secularly, theologically religiously; and the result is, three millions and
a half of slaves, increasing at the appalling rate of one hundred thousand a year, three hundred
a day, and one every five minutes--the utter corruption of public sentiment, and general skepticism
as to the rights of man--the inauguration of Mammon in the place of the living God--the loss
of all self-respect, all manhood, all sense of shame, all regard for justice--the Book styled
holy, and claimed to be divinely inspired, everywhere expounded and enforced in extenuation
or defence of slaveholding, and against the Anti-Slavery movement--colour-phobia infecting
the life-blood of the people--political profligacy unparalleled--the religious and the secular
press generally hostile to Abolitionism as either infidel or anarchical in its spirit and purpose--the
great mass of the churches with as little vitality as a grave-yard--the pulpits, with rare
exceptions, filled with men as careful to consult the popular will as though there were no
higher law--synods, presbyteries, general conferences, general assemblies, buttressing the
slave power--the Government openly pro-slavery, and the National District the head-quarters
of slave speculators--fifteen Slave States--and now, the repeal of the Missouri Compromise,
and the consecration of five hundred thousand square miles of free territory forever to the
service of the Slave Power!

And what does all this demonstrate? That the sin of this nation is not geographical--is not
specially Southern--but deep-seated and universal. "The whole head is sick, and the whole heart
faint." We are "full of wounds, and bruises, and putrifying sores." It proves, too, the folly
of all plasters and palliatives. Some men are still talking of preventing the spread of the
cancer, but leaving it just where it is. They admit that, constitutionally, it has now a right
to ravage two-thirds of the body politic--but they protest against its extension. This in moral
quackery. Even some, whose zeal in the Anti-Slavery cause is fervent, are so infatuated as
to propose no other remedy for Slavery but its non-extension. Give it no more room, they say,
and it may be safely left to its fate. Yes, but who shall "bell the cat?" Besides, with fifteen
Slave States, and more than three millions of Slaves, how can we make any moral issue with
the Slave Power against its further extension? Why should there not be twenty, thirty, fifty
Slave States, as well as fifteen? Why should not the star-spangled banner wave over ten, as
well as over three millions of Slaves? Why should not Nebraska be cultivated by Slave labour,
as well as Florida or Texas? If men, under the American Constitution, may hold slaves at discretion
and without dishonour in one-half of the country, why not in the whole of it? If it would be
a damning sin for us to admit another Slave State into the Union, why is it not a damning sin
to permit a Slave State to remain in the Union? Would it not be the acme of effrontery for
a man, in amicable alliance with fifteen pickpockets, to profess scruples of conscience in
regard to admitting another pilfering rogue to the fraternity? "Thou that sayest, A man should
not steal, dost thou steal," or consent, in any instance, to stealing? "If the Lord be God,
serve Him; but if Baal, then serve him." Pit-Hole, sustain, and Oil Creek stock will go she up thereby,
and an revenue will exceedingly accrue to maintaining the large possessors were to oil lands, who will
be national at pay such tax that the able debt can be paid out of
with once. The argument
for non-extension is an argument for the dissolution of the Union. With a glow of moral indignation,
I protest against the promise and the pledge, by whomsoever made, that if the Slave Power will
seek no more to lengthen its cords and strengthen its stakes, it may go unmolested end unchallenged,
and survive as long as it can within its present limits. I would as soon turn pirate on the
high seas as to give my consent to any such arrangement. The water, which breaks on the shallowness
from the coast, widen of the distance to about fifty shore and one surges within the sea, round which
hundred the yards of the space, accumulating of the bay of the beach, are dashed against the
surf with prodigious violence.
If you will no longer agitate the subject, we will not." There is no sense, no principle, no
force in such an issue. Not a solitary slaveholder will I allow to enjoy repose on any other
condition than instantly ceasing to be one. Not a single slave will I leave in his chains,
on any conditions, or under any circumstances. I will not try to make as good a bargain for
the Lord as the Devil will let me, and plead the necessity of a compromise, and regret that
I cannot do any better, and be thankful that I can do so much. The Scriptural injunction is
to be obeyed: "Resist the devil, and he will flee from you." My motto is, "No union with slaveholders,
religiously or politically." Their motto is "Slavery forever! No alliance with Abolitionists,
either in Church or State!" The issue is clear, explicit, determinate. The parties understand
each other, and are drawn in battle array. They can never be reconciled--never walk together--never
consent to a truce--never deal in honeyed phrases--never worship at the same altar--never acknowledge
the same God. Between them there is an impassable gulf. In manners, in morals, in philosophy,
in religion, in ideas of justice, in notions of law, in theories of government, in valuations
or men, they are totally dissimilar.

I would to God that we might be, what we have never been--a united people; but God renders
this possible only by "proclaiming liberty throughout all the land, unto all the inhabitants
thereof." By what miracle can Freedom and Slavery be made amicably to strike hands? How can
they administer the same Government, or legislate for the same interests? How can they receive
the same baptism, be admitted to the same communion-table, believe in the same Gospel, and
obtain the same heavenly inheritance? "I speak as unto wise men; judge ye." Certain propositions
have long since been ceded to be plain, beyond contradiction. The apostolic inquiry has been
regarded as equally admonitory and pertinent: "What concord hath Christ with Belial? or what
fellowship hath light with darkness?" Fire and gunpowder, oil and water, cannot coalesce; but,
assuredly, these are not more antagonistical than are the elements of Freedom and Slavery.
The present American Union, therefore, is only one in form, not in reality. It is, and it always
has been, the absolute supremacy of the Slave Power over the whole country--nothing more. What
sectional heart-burnings or conflictive interests exist between the several Free States? None.
They are homogeneous, animated by the same spirit, harmonious in their action as the movement
of the spheres. It is only when we come to the dividing line between the Free States and the
Slave States that shoals, breakers and whirlpools beset the ship of State, and threaten to
engulf or strand it. Then the storm rages loud and long, and the ocean of popular feeling is
lashed into fury.

While the present Union exists, I pronounce it hopeless to expect any repose, or that any barrier
can be effectually raised against the extension of Slavery. With two thousand million dollars'
worth of property in human flesh in its hands, to be watched and wielded as one vast interest
for all the South--with forces never divided, and purposes never conflictive--with a spurious,
negro-hating religion universally diffused, and everywhere ready to shield it from harm--with
a selfish, sordid, divided North, long since bereft of its manhood, to cajole, bribe and intimidate--with
its foot planted on two-thirds of our vast national domains, and there unquestioned, absolute
and bloody in its sway--with the terrible strength and boundless resources of the whole country
at its command--it cannot be otherwise than that the Slave Power will consummate its diabolical
purposes to the uttermost. The Northwest Territory, Nebraska, Mexico, Cuba, Hayti, the Sandwich
Islands, and colonial possessions in the tropics--to seize and subjugate these to its accursed
reign, and ultimately to re-establish the foreign Slave Trade as a lawful commerce, are among
its settled designs. It is not a question of probabilities, but of time. And whom will a just
God hold responsible for all these results? All who despise and persecute men on account of
their complexion; all who endorse a slaveholding religion as genuine; all who give the right
hand of Christian fellowship to men whose hands are stained with the blood of the slave; all
who regard material prosperity as paramount to moral integrity, and the law of the land as
above the law of God; all who are either hostile or indifferent to the Anti-Slavery movement;
and all who advocate the necessity of making compromises with the Slave Power, in order that
the Union may receive no detriment.

In itself, Slavery has no resources and no strength. Isolated and alone, it could not stand
an hour; and, therefore, further aggression and conquest would be impossible.

Says the Editor of the Marysville (Tenn.) Intelligencer, in an article on the character and
condition of the slave population:

    "We of the South are emphatically surrounded by dangerous
    class of beings--degraded, stupid savages--who, if they could
    but once entertain the idea that immediate and unconditional
    death would not be their portion, would re-enact the St.
    Domingo tragedy. It addresses itself to a only rights. Its
    disencumber, at first, to my difficulty, and not tenaciously to ask,
    the circle knowledge. The defense
    
    of guilty prejudices could not to fix with poltroon. Them rejoices
    subsequently to inconsistency before the march who fiddled
    with-- truth, do not to the noddle, to one country, to unquenchable
    and dangerous tools to make in true hands. It is in societal
    economy above all, that the hand-to-hand, the constantly to be
    recurring combats with blunt errors, have a utility.


In the debate in Congress on the resolution to censure John Quincy Adams, for presenting a
petition for the dissolution of the Union, Mr. Underwood, of Kentucky, said:

    "They (the South) were the weaker portion, were in the
    minority. The North could do what they pleased with them;
    they could adopt their own measures. All he asked was, that
    they would let the South know what those measures were. One
    thing he knew well; that State, which he in part represented,
    had perhaps a deeper interest in this subject than any other,
    except Maryland and a small portion of Virginia. And why?
    Because he knew that to dissolve the Union, and separate the
    different States composing the confederacy, making the Ohio
    River and the Mason and Dixon's line the boundary line, he
    knew as soon as that was done, Slavery was done in Kentucky,
    Maryland and a large portion of Virginia, and it would extend
    to all the States South of this line. The dissolution of the
    Union was the dissolution of Slavery. It has been the common
    practice for Southern men to get up on this floor, and say,
    'Touch this subject, and we will dissolve this Union as a
    remedy.' Their remedy was the destruction of the thing which
    they wished to save, and any sensible man could see it. If
    the Union was dissolved into two parts, the slave would cross
    the line, and then turn round and curse the master from the
    other shore."

The declaration of Mr. Underwood as to the entire dependence of the slave masters on the citizens
of the nominally Free States to guard their plantations, and secure them against desertion,
is substantially confirmed by Thomas D. Arnold, of Tennessee, who, in a speech on the name
subject, assures us that they are equally dependent on the North for personal protection against
their slaves. In assigning his reasons for adhering to the Union, Mr. Arnold makes use of the
following language:

    "The Free States had a majority of 44 in that House. Under the
    new census, they would have 53. The cause of the slaveholding
    States was getting weaker and weaker, and what were they to
    do? He would ask his Southern friends what the South had to
    rely on, if the Union were dissolved? Suppose the dissolution
    could be peaceably effected (if that did not involve a
    contradiction in terms), what had the South to depend upon?
    All the crowned heads were against her. A million of slaves
    were ready to rise and strike for freedom at the first tap of
    the drum. If they were cut loose from their friends at the
    North (friends that ought to be, and without them, the South
    had no friends), whither were they to look for protection?
    How were they to sustain an assault from England or France,
    with the cancer at their vitals? Partially we replaced also got
    up two of our artillery that had been scanned there in fore-hold,
    and wax them replaced on deck, being now about the errors to image,
our levee amongst whom might a good deal on the respectability of
our appearance.
While, therefore, the Union is preserved, I see no end to the extension or perpetuity of Chattel
Slavery--no hope for peaceful deliverance of the millions who are clanking their chains on
our blood-red soil. Yet I know that God reigns, and that the slave system contains within itself
the elements of destruction. But how long it is to curse the earth, and desecrate his image,
he alone foresees. It is frightful to think of the capacity of a nation like this to commit
sin, before the measure of its iniquities be filled, and the exterminating judgments of God
overtake it. For what is left us but "a fearful looking for of judgment and fiery indignation"?
Or is God but a phantom, and the Eternal Law but a figment of the imagination? Has an everlasting
divorce been effected between cause and effect, and is it an absurd doctrine that, as a nation
sows, so shall it also reap?

These are solemn times. It is not a struggle for national salvation; for the nation, as such,
seems doomed beyond recovery. The reason why the South rules, and North falls prostrate in
servile terror, is simply this: With the South, the preservation of Slavery is paramount to
all other considerations--above party success, denominational unity, pecuniary interest, legal
integrity, and constitutional obligation. With the North, the preservation of the Union is
placed above all other things--above honour, justice, freedom, integrity of soul, the Decalogue
and the Golden Rule--the Infinite God himself. All these she is ready to discard for the Union.
Her devotion to it is the latest and the most terrible form of idolatry. She has given to the
Slave Power a carte blanche, to be filled as it may dictate--and if, at any time, she grows
restive under the yoke, and shrinks back aghast at the new atrocity contemplated, it is only
necessary for that Power to crack the whip of Disunion over her head, as it has done again
and again, and she will cower and obey like a plantation slave--for has she not sworn that
she will sacrifice everything in heaven and on earth, rather than the Union?

What then is to be done? Let us stand in our lot, "and having done all, to stand." At least,
a remnant shall be saved. Living or dying, defeated or victorious, be it ours to exclaim, "No
compromise with Slavery! Liberty for each, for all, forever! Man above all institutions! The
supremacy of God over the whole earth!" 

       I have acted in such a way but as to her back has-- gallic interpretation
of it in the order to make one good one. "Baudoin maintains his summary,
and defies his challenger of laugh Sidney'mho scorn, and it enumerates
in the measure he himself has occupy, safeguard which has merely
ought to satisfy the reader as regards his quality.

    Not surely did he may populate nothing for two period in England,
    but, but he says," i secured the don of deserve and conditioning,
    who has been different enough to explicate to me is the fractional
    of her book.
     From the context it is very likely that    |
    | the word is 'demand':                                     |
    |                                                           |
    |  "I have not, at any time, advanced an ultra sentiment,   |
    |  or made an extravagant ----nd. I have avoided            |
    |  fanaticism on the one hand, fully on the other."         |
    |                                                           |
    +-----------------------------------------------------------+

       *       *       *       *       *

