Near midnight we sauntered down the street to the quay, whence we were rowed to the ship by
another turbaned, long-robed figure, who sweetly begged just a copper or so "for poor boatman."

We found the ship in the process of coaling, every porthole and doorway closed, and heavy canvas
hung to protect as far as possible the clean decks. Two barges were moored alongside. Two blazing
braziers lighted them with weird red and flickering flames. In their depths, cast in black
and red shadows, toiled half-guessed figures; from their depths, mounting a single steep plank,
came an unbroken procession of natives, naked save for a wisp of cloth around the loins. They
trod closely on each other's heels, carrying each his basket atop his head or on one shoulder,
mounted a gang-plank, discharged their loads into the side of the ship, and descended again
to the depths by way of another plank. The lights flickered across their dark faces, their
gleaming teeth and eyes. Somehow the work demanded a heap of screeching, shouting, and gesticulation;
but somehow also it went forward rapidly. Dozens of unattached natives lounged about the gunwales
with apparently nothing to do but to look picturesque. Shore boats moved into the narrow circle
of light, drifted to our gangway, and discharged huge crates of vegetables, sacks of unknown
stuffs, and returning passengers. A vigilant police boat hovered near to settle disputes, generally
with the blade of an oar. For a long time we leaned over the rail watching them, and the various
reflected lights in the water, and the very clear, unwavering stars. Then, the coaling finished,
and the portholes once more opened, we turned in.

IV.

SUEZ.

Some time during the night we must have started, but so gently had we slid along it fractional
speed that until I raised my head and looked out I had not realized the fact. I saw a high
sandbank. This glided monotonously by until I grew tired of looking at it and got up.

After breakfast, however, I found that the sandbank had various attractions all of its own.
Three camels laden with stone and in convoy of white-clad figures shuffled down the slope at
a picturesque angle. Two cowled women in black, veiled to the eyes in gauze heavily sewn with
sequins, barefooted, with massive silver anklets, watched us pass. Hindu workmen in turban
and loin-cloth furnished a picturesque note, but did not seem to be injuring themselves by
over-exertion. Naked small boys raced us for a short distance. The banks glided by very slowly
and very evenly, the wash sucked after us like water in a slough after a duck boat, and the
sky above the yellow sand looked extremely blue.

At short and regular intervals, half-way up the miniature sandhills, heavy piles or snubbing-posts
had been planted. For these we at first could guess no reason. Soon, however, we had to pass
another ship; and then we saw that one of us must tie up to avoid being drawn irresistibly
by suction into collision with the other. The craft sidled by, separated by only a few feet,
so that we could look across to each other's decks and exchange greetings. As the day grew
this interest grew likewise. Dredgers in the canal; rusty tramps flying unfamiliar flags of
strange tiny countries; big freighters, often with Greek or Turkish characters on their sterns;
small dirty steamers of suspicious business; passenger ships like our own, returning from the
tropics, with white-clad, languid figures reclining in canvas chairs; gunboats of this or that
nation bound on mysterious affairs; once a P. & O. converted into a troopship, from whose every
available porthole, hatch, deck, and shroud laughing, brown, English faces shouted chaff at
our German decks--all these either tied up for us, or were tied up for by us. The only craft
that received no consideration on our part were the various picturesque Arab dhows, with their
single masts and the long yards slanting across them. Since these were very small, our suction
dragged at them cruelly. As a usual thing four vociferous figures clung desperately to a rope
passed around one of the snubbing-posts ashore, while an old man shrieked syllables at them
from the dhow itself. As they never by any chance thought of mooring her both stem and stern,
the dhow generally changed ends rapidly, shipping considerable water in the process. It must
be very trying to get so excited in a hot climate.

The high sandbanks of the early part of the day soon dropped lower to afford us a wider view.
In its broad, general features the country was, quite simply, the desert of Arizona over again.
There were the same high, distant, and brittle-looking mountains, fragile and pearly; the same
low, broken half-distances; the same wide sweeps; the same wonderful changing effects of light,
colour, shadow, and mirage; the same occasional strips of green marking the watercourses and
oases. As to smaller detail, we saw many interesting divergences. In the foreground constantly
recurred the Bedouin brush shelters, each with its picturesque figure or so in flowing robes,
and its grumpy camels. Twice we saw travelling caravans, exactly like the Bible pictures. At
one place a single burnoused Arab, leaning on his elbows, reclined full length on the sky-line
of a clean-cut sandhill. Glittering in the mirage, half-guessed, half-seen, we made out distant
little white towns with slender palm trees. At places the water from the canal had overflowed
wide tracts of country. Here, along the shore, we saw thousands of the water-fowl already familiar
to us, as well as such strangers as gaudy kingfishers, ibises, and rosy flamingoes.

The canal itself seemed to be in a continual state of repair. Dredgers were everywhere; some
of the ordinary shovel type, others working by suction, and discharging far inland by means
of weird huge pipes that apparently meandered at will over the face of nature. The control
stations were beautifully French and neat, painted yellow, each with its gorgeous bougainvilleas
in flower, its square-rigged signal masts, its brightly painted extra buoys standing in a row,
its wharf--and its impassive Arab fishermen thereon. We reclined in our canvas chairs, had
lemon squashes brought to us, and watched the entertainment steadily and slowly unrolled before us.

We reached the end of the canal about three o'clock of the afternoon, and dropped anchor off
the low-lying shores. Our binoculars showed us white houses in apparently single rank along
a far-reaching narrow sand spit, with sparse trees and a railroad line. That was the town of
Suez, and seemed so little interesting that we were not particularly sorry that we could not
go ashore. Far in the distance were mountains; and the water all about us was the light, clear
green of the sky at sunset.

Innumerable dhows and row-boats swarmed down, filled with eager salesmen of curios and ostrich
plumes. They had not much time in which to bargain, so they made it up in rapid-fire vociferation.
One very tall and dignified Arab had as sailor of his craft the most extraordinary creature,
just above the lower limit of the human race. He was of a dull coal black, without a single
high light on him anywhere, as though he had been sand-papered, had prominent teeth, like those
of a baboon, in a wrinkled, wizened monkey face, across which were three tattooed bands, and
possessed a little, long-armed, spare figure, bent and wiry. He clambered up and down his mast,
fetching things at his master's behest; leapt nonchalantly for our rail or his own spar, as
the case might be, across the staggering abyss; clung so well with his toes that he might almost
have been classified with the quadrumana; and between times squatted humped over on the rail,
watching us with bright, elfish, alien eyes.

At last the big German sailors bundled the whole variegated horde overside. It was time to
go, and our anchor chain was already rumbling in the hawse pipes. They tumbled hastily into
their boats; and at once swarmed up their masts, whence they feverishly continued their interrupted
bargaining. In fact, so fully embarked on the tides of commerce were they, that they failed
to notice the tides of nature widening between us. One old man, in especial, at the very top
of his mast, jerked hither and thither by the sea, continued imploringly to offer an utterly
ridiculous carved wooden camel long after it was impossible to have completed the transaction
should anybody have been moonstruck enough to have desired it. Our ship's prow swung; and just
at sunset, as the lights of Suez were twinkling out one by one, we headed down the Red Sea.

V.

THE RED SEA.

Suez is indeed the gateway to the East. In the Mediterranean often the sea is rough, the winds
cold, passengers are not yet acquainted, and hug the saloons or the leeward side of the deck.
Once through the canal and all is changed by magic. The air is hot and languid; the ship's
company down to the very scullions appear in immaculate white; the saloon chairs and transoms
even are put in white coverings; electric fans hum everywhere; the run on lemon squashes begins;
and many quaint and curious customs of the tropics obtain.

For example: it is etiquette that before eight o'clock one may wander the decks at will in
one's pyjamas, converse affably with fair ladies in pigtail and kimono, and be not abashed.
But on the stroke of eight bells it is also etiquette to disappear very promptly and to array
one's self for the day; and it is very improper indeed to see or be seen after that hour in
the rather extreme negligée of the early morning. Also it becomes the universal custom, or
perhaps I should say the necessity, to slumber for an hour after the noon meal. Certainly sleep
descending on the tropical traveller is armed with a bludgeon. Passengers, crew, steerage,
"deck," animal, and bird fall down then in an enchantment. I have often wondered who navigates
the ship during that sacred hour, or, indeed, if anybody navigates it at all. Perhaps that
time is sacred to the genii of the old East, who close all prying mortal eyes, but in return
lend a guiding hand to the most pressing of mortal affairs. The deck of the ship is a curious
sight between the hours of half-past one and three. The tropical siesta requires no couching
of the form. You sit down in your chair, with a book--you fade slowly into a deep, restful
slumber. And yet it is a slumber wherein certain small pleasant things persist from the world
outside. You remain dimly conscious of the rhythmic throbbing of the engines, of the beat of
soft, warm air on your cheek.

