3.  Practical (12-16).  (a) Advice and exhortation. The Christian's duty to the church and
his conduct outside of it; duty to the state and society; duty of toleration and supreme trust
in Christ.  (b) Salutations.  Paul's apology and explanation for addressing the Roman church.
Greetings to various persons and farewell words.

QUESTIONS

What can be said of the old faiths and the new?  What was the great question?  The Jewish faith;
how fulfilled in Christ? What can be said of the heathen faith?  What of the new faith in Christ?
What is the practical bearing of this group of Epistles upon every day life?  When written?
Give some account of the Galatians.  When was the Epistle to the Galatians written? There was oppressed my heart alone The
sun was again more glorious than ever and inspired me the courage into the soul. Since I got
I hurried. It drove me to see the place where the house stood, and whether the Rescued chickens,
which I particularly loved, for my childish mind was still. When I now over the debris of the
house and yard, therefore, increased the still smoking, so the apartment wuest and saw destroyed,
you came up to the other side and were looking for the place. You was a horse in the stable
swept up and the joists about it and smoldering rubble, and to see there was nothing from
animals. So we stood facing each other, serious and sad: because the wall had fallen, the divorced
our farms. And you comprehensive test on my hand and said: "Lies, how do you come here go away
you burn the soles, For? the debris is hot, he scorches me stronger boots. "And you on me and
wore hobest me off over here through your yard. There's the gate of the house stood with his vault,
As it stands now, it was left alone by all. And you put me down and kissed me and I refused
'it. But you said it with great friendly words: "Behold, the house is down. Stay here and help me
build it, and I help other hand, even your His father. "But I did not understand you until you
get to the father and the mother Schick fast the vow of the merry marriage was done. Still remember
now, I am now the half-burned Joyful entablature and see the sun still go up so wonderfully,
For me the day the husband to have it the first time the destruction of the wild son gave me the young. So
I praise you, Hermann, that you think a girl with pure confidence in you that sad times and
dares to woo in the war and over the rubble. "

In a moment the father answered vividly, and said: "The sentiment
is laudable, and true the story, Mother, you are telling me, for then
all will meet.

But better is better. Not every one relates it to start all over his entire life and being;
Not to any torment, as we and others did, Oh, how happy of the Father mother and the house already
well-ordered through the give and with it prosperity ausziert! And so I hope from you, my Hermann,
that you give me soon in the house with a beautiful bride, the dowry hereinfuehrst, For a brave
man deserves a wealthy girl, and it behaget Sun well when coming in with the females gewuenscheten
Also in baskets and boxes useful gift. Not without reason by many, many years, the mother prepares
the canvas daughter of fine and strong fabric, not without reason that the sponsors worship
her silverware, and secretes the father Desks in the rare goldstueck: For they shall one day with their
gifts and blessings Those Juengling , Rejoice, it has the choice above all. Yes, I know how
pleasant a female in the home there is, may know That you own The kitchen 'and room and the bed
itself and the table has itself covered. Only well-equipped 'I want the house of the bride see, for
the arms but is despised by the man only recently, and he holds as a maid, a servant came in
with the bundle. Remain inaccessible to men, and the times of love . Elapse Yes, my Hermann,
would you greatly enjoy my age, if you like me soon to House is a drug; Schwiegertoechterchen
her from the neighborhood, that house, the green. Reich is the man for true retail industry and
its factories are making him richer every day, for where the merchant does not win? Only three
daughters are there, but they share the wealth. Even the oldest is determined, I know, but the
second as the third yet, and may not have long. If I were in your place, I would have not hesitated
until now, One of the girls brought me, as I was carrying away the mother. "

Then the son replied modestly the urgent father: "Truly, my intention was, as Your to choose
one of the daughters of our neighbor. We are brought up together, played alongside the fountain on
the market in the old days, and I have often beschuetzet before the
boys' wildness.

But that was long ago already, and it remains the growing girl last cheap to house and flee
the wilder games. Well they have certainly pulled! I was at times also still old acquaintance,
like you, it wished that over, but I could never in their Dealing enjoy. Because they always blamed
on me, that I have to endure: Not to long was my rock, too rough and the color of the cloth
Not to mean and the hair is not trimmed right and crimped. At last I had in mind to brush
me like that Handelsbuebchen, Always on Sunday the show Over There, And herumhaengt to the
semi-silk in the summer of the napkin.

This doctrine played havoc with the simplest moral conceptions for if matter is evil, and its
source, then man's sin is not in his will, but in his body.  Redemption from sin can come only
through asceticism and the mortification of the flesh.

The result of all this was a lowering of the dignity of Christ, taking away His saving power
and the "substitution of various ascetic abstinences and ritualistic practices (2:20) for trust
in Him, the worship of angels (2:18), and a reveling in dreams and visions."  "This was kindred
to a type of speculation which later became rife under the name of Gnosticism."

To these ideas Paul opposed the true doctrine of the Headship of Christ (2:19) and that He
is the only link between God and the universe (1:15-17).  "By Him were all things created (1:16)
that are in heaven and that are in earth."  Christ is the only Mediator (1:13, 14). In this
faith there is no place for ascetic mortification. Evil is in our unwillingness to live the
life in Christ.  In Christ we are dead to sin and risen with Him to a life of holiness (2:20-23;
3:1-4).  Christ is not only our Redeemer (1:14) and the Head of the church, but the source
of creation and its Lord (1:16, 17).  We have a similar error (against which Paul warns) taught
to-day by the speculative thinker, who fills the world with forces which leave no room for
the working of a personal will.

+Central Thought+--Jesus Christ the sole Savior of men and Mediator between God and men (1:13-14),
the Creator (1:16; 2:9) and Head of the church (1:18). Exhortation to follow Christ (3:1-4).

+Time and Place.+--This Epistle was written at Rome and sent by the messenger, Tychicus, (4:7,
8, 18) to the church at Colossæ about 63 A.D.

Paul also directed that it be read to the church at Laodicea (4:16).  Thanksgiving for their
faith and prayer for their increase and knowledge of the will of God.

2.  Doctrinal.  "The sole Headship of Christ" (1:13-3:4).  (a) Christ the Mediator.  There
is redemption for us through His blood.  (b) Christ, the image of the invisible God, Creator
and Preserver of all things. (c) He is the Head of the church, reconciliation is only through
Him.  The Colossians were reconciled to God through the mediation of Christ.  It is the earnest
desire of Paul that the church at Colossæ should remain rooted in the faith which it had been
taught.  (d) Warning against wrong speculation; lest any man "through philosophy or vain deceit"
obscure or cause the Colossians to deny the true Godhead of Christ (2:8-15).  (e) Renewed warnings
against errors in worship; Jewish observances, ordinances and asceticisms, and the adoration
of angels.  (f) In Christ we are dead to the rudiments of the world and risen into communion
with God in Christ.

3.  Practical (3:5-4:6).  (a) Exhortations to cast out all sins of the unregenerate nature
and to put on the new man in Christ.  Then Christ will be all and in all. (b) All family and
social duties are to be performed as in the sight of Christ.  (c) Renewed exhortations to prayer
and watchfulness.

4.  Conclusion (4:7-18).  (a) The mission of Tychicus and Onesimus, the greetings of the companions
of Paul and his expressed desire that the churches of Colossæ and Laodicea exchange Epistles.
(b) The Salutation.

THE EPISTLE TO PHILEMON

+Occasion.+--This is the only purely personal letter of Paul that we possess.  It is placed
in this group because it was sent with the Epistle to the Colossians and by the same messenger,
Tychicus (Col. 4:7-9).  Philemon was a member (with his wife Apphia) of the church at Colossæ
(Philemon 2).  Onesimus was a runaway slave, belonging to Philemon, who had found his way to
Rome and been converted by Paul (Philemon 10), who returned him, with this letter, to his master
(Col. 4:9; Philemon 10-12).

In this letter we have a picture of the Apostle's kindness of heart and a carrying out of the
principles which Paul had advocated in his First Epistle to the Corinthians (7:20-24), "Let
every man abide in the same calling wherein he was called."  We find also this same principle
set forth, in another way, in his letter to the Colossians upon the "Supremacy of Christ."
These principles will make all men brethren in Christ and every man will strive to serve Christ
in his own place, whatever that place is. Paul exhorts Philemon, along this very line, to receive
Onesimus not as a servant but as a brother beloved (Philemon 16).

The practical teaching of this letter upon the relations between masters and servants and employers
and employees is very pertinent to the present times.  The true solution of all labor troubles
is that men should regard each other as brethren under the leadership of Jesus Christ.

2.  Statement of the object of the letter (8-21).  As a favor for love's sake Philemon is asked
to receive back Onesimus no longer a runaway slave but Paul's spiritual child.  Emphasis is
laid upon the fact that he is now a Christian brother and should be received as such.

3.  Conclusion (22-25).  (a) In expectation of a speedy release from imprisonment the Apostle
asks that a lodging be secured for him (22 v.).  (b) Salutation and benediction (23-25).

THE EPISTLE TO THE EPHESIANS

+The City of Ephesus and the Church.+--This city was, next to Rome, the most important visited
by Paul. It was the capital of Asia Minor and a great commercial center.  It was the seat of
the worship of the goddess Diana.

Paul first visited the city when he was returning from his second missionary tour, but, while
asked to prolong his stay, he remained only for a short time (Acts 18:19-21). 

But the father was silent. There was the priest quickly, took the floor and said: "The Moment
only decides on the life of man and all his fortunes, For after a long discussion but every decision
is only the work of the moment, but it takes only Verstaend'ge of the rights. More and more dangerous
is it, when you select this and that, alongside to consider and so confusing the feeling. Hermann
Rein is, I know him from childhood, Even as a boy and he reached the hands not look like this
and that. What he sought, According to him was, he thought it was also found. Do not be shy and
surprised that now once appeareth what you wished for so long. It has the appearance is not as
true now the shape of desire, just as you about him geheget. Because the wishes us conceal themselves
what you want, the gifts come from above, in their own form. Now bring Ennetbürgen it is not the
girl that your loved ones, good and reasonably son first moves the soul added. Happy is he
to whom sufficient once the first lover's hand, To the sweetest Desire not secretly languishing
in the heart! Yes, I see him, it is his destiny decided. True affection for her husband completed
once the youth. Not movable he, I'm afraid you fail him this, then go the years, the most beautiful,
in a sad Life. "
  Christ is given sway over all things "both which
are in heaven and which are on earth" (1:10, 2l).  The unity of the church in Christ is set
forth; the unity of the Gentile and Jewish branches in Him; the unity of all the individual
members in Him. This union is spiritual and not mechanical; it is holy and pure; therefore
sin is excluded.  Paul looks upon this as the mystery of the ages, now revealed to him.  There
is one great kingdom, the risen and glorified Christ is the Head of this kingdom (1:19-23).
Redemption and reception into this kingdom is through Jesus Christ (1-7).

Paul in this epistle rises above the controversies of the hour and sees in clear vision the
eternal realities and the great plan of God for the saving of men. Was this because in addition to the nature of our feelings, the desire to remain
in And to old friends of what each one is long lived. Every condition is good, of course and reasonable.
Much desired by the man, yet he needs only slightly because the Days are short, and restricted
the mortal fate. Never TADL I the man who accessible, active and restless, the other shoots,
the sea and all the streets of the earth, busily Kuehn travel on the profit and rejoice, which
is abundant around him and to his family accumulates, but that is also worth to me, the quiet
citizens, his paternal heritage with silent Umgehet steps and takes care of the earth, as it enjoin
the hours.

2.  Doctrinal.  Unity in Christ (ch. 2-3).  (a) The calling of the Gentiles out of "trespasses
and sins" into a new life in Christ.  (c) The mystery of the universal call was made known
to Paul by a new revelation.  Prayer for a more full comprehension of this unity.

3.  Practical.  The new life in unity with Christ (4:1-6:17).  (a) Exhortation to walk worthy
of this new life.  (b) Exhortation to gain the victory over sin "in virtue of the sense of
unity with man in Christ."  (c) Social duties.  The regeneration and consecration in this new
life of the relations of husbands and wives, children and parents, and slaves and masters,
(d) Final entreaty, in the battle against the powers of evil, to put "on the whole armour of God."

4.  Conclusion (6:18-24).  (a) Personal.  Paul requests special prayer for himself in captivity.
Tychicus is commended.  (b) Farewell and blessing. No, I will not let up;. You're my fiancee of the son "But the Father was
with reluctance, however, looking at the weeping, and said the morose Words: "So this has become
my last for the highest indulgence, that my most unpleasant happens at the close of the day! For
me is nothing more intolerable than tears of the women, Passionate cry which beginnet violently
confused, which made with a little reason to leisurely simple. I am annoying, even longer this wonderful
start to look at. Completed it yourself! I go to bed. "And he turned quickly and hurried to the
chamber to To go where he was the Ehbett and where he was accustomed to rest.
  This letter shows how he loved it and how he exhorted
them to rejoice in the Lord (4:4).

+Occasion.+--Paul was in prison in Rome.  The Philippian converts were greatly concerned about
him, therefore they sent Epaphroditus with gifts and offerings to him (4:18).  This was not
the first time that they had taken thought of and remembered their founder, in a similar way
(4:15, 16).  The Apostle was very grateful for their care (4:10-14).  While in Rome, Epaphroditus
was taken very sick and came near death (2:25-28). As soon as he had recovered from his sickness
Paul sent him back to Philippi (2:28), with this letter.  The reference to Cæsar's household
shows how strong a hold Christianity was getting in Rome (4:22; 1:12-14), and that there was
great boldness in proclaiming the gospel. Requires a pitcher 'he of her to share the burden. "Let him," said she, "it carries
the same load better so And the Lord commanded in future, he said. will not serve me. Look
at me so serious not, when my fate would be worrying! Serve learn in time the woman to her destiny!
For by serving alone she finally arrives to rule, to earn the violence, but heard her in the
house. Serve the sister his brother sooner, they serve the parents, and their life is always an
eternal walking and Or come to lift and carry, prepare and work for others. Well you if they
do get used to that no way it becomes too sour, and the hours of the night you are like the Hours
of the day, you never think that the work is too small and the needle is too fine, that they
forget completely and may only live in others! For true as a mother, it requires the All the
virtues, when the infant wakes the patient end and food desires of the weak and so accumulate
to worry about pain. Twenty men not connected fraudulently extracted this complaint, And they
should not, but they will appreciate it einsehn.

So they said, and was with her silent companion came through the garden, down to the threshing floor
the barn, where the woman was that they leave happy with the daughters, those rescued Girl, the
beautiful images of innocence. Both went in, and from the other side Trat, a child of any hand,
the judge also an. This used to be the whining Lost mother, but she had now found in the old crowd.
And they jumped with joy, To greet the dear mother, to cheer his brother, playmates of the unknown!
On Dorotheen jumped them and greeted them kindly, demanding bread and fruit, but especially to .
Drink And they passed it around the water. Since the children were drinking, and the woman
drank with the daughters, then drank the judge. All were geletzt and praised the wonderful water;
It was sour and refreshing to drink healthy humans.
  Acknowledgment of gifts and benedictions (4:10-23).

QUESTIONS

What is the question at issue in this group of Epistles?  What the reason for raising this
question?  What answer is given? What attention is now paid to this question?  When were these
Epistles written?  How were they sent?  What can be said of the Epistles to the Colossians?
The church at Colossæ, how was it organized?  What was the occasion of this Epistle?  What
the central thought?  What the time and place of writing?  Give the principal divisions and
chief points.  What was the occasion of the Epistle to Philemon?  Give the principal divisions
and chief points.  What can be said of the Epistle to the Ephesians?  Give an account of the
founding of this church.  What can be said of the title and time of writing?  What is the subject?
Give the principal divisions and chief points.  What can be said of the Epistle to the Philippians?
How was this church organized? What was the occasion of the Epistle?  What the objects?  Give
the time of writing.  TITUS.  SECOND TIMOTHY.

ANALYSIS

+The Place of the Epistles+--When Written.

+Paul's Fourth Missionary Journey+--Notices and Time.  The First Trip Eastward.  The Trip Westward
to Spain.  The Second Trip Eastward.  The Second Imprisonment of Paul.

+The Questions Discussed+--The Personal Element.  The Doctrinal Part. The Practical Teaching.
The Special Theme.

+Paul's Last Declaration of His Faith.+

+The First Epistle to Timothy+--Timothy.  Time and Place.  Purpose. Principal Divisions and
Chief Points.

+The Epistle to Titus+--Titus.  Purpose.  Time and Place.  Principal Divisions and Chief Points.

+The Second Epistle to Timothy+--The Last Words of Paul.  Time and Place of Writing.  Purpose. So
she walked up to the fall itself, enjoying all the festive day in which the area in jubilation
lieset grapes and enters and gathers the must in the casks, fireworks of the evening, popping lights
of all places, and ends and so the most beautiful crops honored is. But she was restless after
she called the son of two, even three times, and only the Echo often returned, the towers of
the town, a very talkative herklang. It was looking to her as strange, and he never went away.


It was during this period between the first and second imprisonments that First Timothy and
Titus were written.  Second Timothy was written during the second imprisonment at Rome, and
at the time when Paul was expecting his sentence of death.  Eusebius (H. E. 2:22-2) says, that
"at the end of the two years of imprisonment, according to tradition, Paul went forth again
upon the ministry of preaching; and in a second visit to the city ended his life by martyrdom
under Nero, and that during his imprisonment he wrote the Second Epistle to Timothy." All I learned and
what I'm used to from an early age, what is the heart of me - I do it the old . Shew But who
tells me now: I like you to meet yourself, you, the only son and future, my lord? "


+The First Trip Eastward.+--When Paul wrote to the church at Philippi (2:24) and to Philemon
at Colossæ (22 v.) he evidently expected to be released from his imprisonment very soon and
to see his beloved Philippian church and Philemon.  He was so sure of speedily visiting Colossæ
that he asked that a lodging be prepared for him.  With Paul to plan was to act and it is quite
possible that he undertook this trip immediately upon his release from prison. Oh, the rest of us may compare well with those those Gravely hour
'was released in burning bush the Lord God, to us he appeared in the clouds and fire. "

And when the priest was inclined to speak out even further, and the fate of the man and his
family wanted to hear, the nimble companion said with secret words in his ear him: "Speak to
the judge only continue and bring the conversation to the girl But I. walk around to visit
them and come back as soon as I find them. "  This could
hardly mean anything but Spain.  The Muratorian Fragment names "the departure of Paul from
the city to Spain."

