Although we had our caps pulled down over our ears and heavy mittens on, and wore all the clothes
we could possibly work in, it yet seemed at times that freeze we must--especially toward night,
when we grew tired from the hard work of sawing so long and so fast. We became so chilled that
we could hardly speak; and at sunset, when we stopped work, we could hardly get across to the
camp. The farmers, who were coming twice a day with their teams for ice, complained constantly
of the cold; several of them stopped drawing altogether for the time. Willis also stopped work
on Thursday at noon.

The people at home knew that we were having a hard time. Grandmother and the girls did all
they could for us; and every day at noon and again at night the old Squire, bundled up in his
buffalo-skin coat, drove down to the lake with horse and pung, and brought us a warm meal,
packed in a large box with half a dozen hot bricks.

Only one who has been chilled through all day can imagine how glad we were to reach that warm
camp at night. Indeed, except for the camp, we could never have worked there as we did. It
was a log camp, or rather two camps, placed end to end, and you went through the first in order
to get into the second, which had no outside door. The second camp had been built especially
for cold weather. It was low, and the chinks between the logs were tamped with moss. At this
time, too, snow lay on it, and had banked up against the walls. Inside the camp, across one
end, there was a long bunk; at the opposite end stood an old cooking-stove, that seemed much
too large for so small a camp.

At dusk we dropped work, made for the camp, shut all the doors, built the hottest fire we could
make, and thawed ourselves out. It seemed as though we could never get warmed through. For
an hour or more we hovered about the stove. The camp was as hot as an oven; I have no doubt
that we kept the temperature at 110°; and yet we were not warm.

"Put in more wood!" Addison or Thomas would exclaim. "Cram that stove full again! Let's get warm!"

We thought so little of ventilation that we shut the camp door tight and stopped every aperture
that we could find. We needed heat to counteract the effect of those long hours of cold and wind.

By the time we had eaten our supper and thawed out, we grew sleepy, and under all our bedclothing,
curled up in the bunk. So fearful were we lest the fire should go out in the night that we
gathered a huge heap of fuel, and we all agreed to get up and stuff the stove whenever we waked
and found the fire abating.

Among the neighbors for whom we were cutting ice was Rufus Sylvester. He was not a very careful
or prosperous farmer, and not likely to be successful at dairying. But because the old Squire
and others were embarking in that business, Rufus wished to do so, too. He had no ice-house,
but thought he could keep ice buried in sawdust, in the shade of a large apple-tree near his
barn; and I may add here that he tried it with indifferent success for three years, and that
it killed the apple-tree.

On Saturday of that cold week he came to the lake with his lame old horse and a rickety sled,
and wanted us to cut a hundred cakes of ice for him. The prospect of our getting our pay was
poor. Saturday, moreover, was the coldest, windiest day of the whole week; the temperature
was down to fourteen degrees below.

Halse and Thomas said no; but he hung round, and teased us, while his half-starved old horse
shivered in the wind; and we finally decided to oblige him, if he would take the tongs and
haul out the cakes himself, as we sawed them. It would not do to stop the saws that day, even
for a moment.

Rufus had on an old blue army overcoat, the cape of which was turned up over his head and ears,
and a red woolen "comforter" round his neck. He wore long-legged, stiff cowhide boots, with
his trousers tucked into the tops.

Addison, Thomas and I were sawing, with our backs turned to Rufus and to the wind, and Rufus
was trying to haul out a cake of ice, when we heard a clatter and a muffled shout. Rufus had
slipped in! We looked round just in time to see him go down into that black, icy water.

Addison let go the saw and sprang for one of the ice-hooks. I did the same. The hook I grabbed
was frozen down; but Addison got his free, and stuck it into Rufus's blue overcoat. It tore
out, and down Rufus went again, head and ears under. His head, in fact, slid beneath the edge
of the ice, but his back popped up.

Addison struck again with the hook--struck harder. He hooked it through all Rufus's clothes,
and took a piece of his skin. It held that time, and we hauled him out.

He lay quite inert on the ice, choking and coughing.

"Get up! Get up!" we shouted to him. "Get up and run, or you'll freeze!"

He tried to rise, but failed to regain his feet, and collapsed. Thereupon Addison and Thomas
laid hold of him, and lifted him to his feet by main strength.

"Now run!" they cried. "Run before your clothes freeze stiff!" The man seemed lethargic--I
suppose from the deadly chill. He made an effort to move his feet, as they bade him, but fell
flat again; and by that time his clothes were stiffening.

"He will freeze to death!" Addison cried. "We must put him on his sled and get him home!"

Thereupon we picked him up like a log of wood, and laid him on his horse-sled.

"But he will freeze before we can get this old lame horse home with him!" exclaimed Thomas.
"Better take him to our camp over there."

Addison thought so, too, and seizing the reins and whip, started for the shore. The old horse
was so chilled that we could hardly get him to hobble; but we did not spare the whip.

From the shore we had still fifteen or twenty rods to go, in order to reach the camp back in
the woods. Rufus's clothes were frozen as stiff as boards; apparently he could not move. We
feared that the man would die on our hands.

We snatched off one of the side boards of his sled, laid him on it, and, taking it up like
a stretcher, started to carry him up through the woods to the camp.

By that time his long overcoat and all the rest of his clothes were frozen so stiff and hard
that he rolled round more like a log than a human body.

The path was rough and snowy. In our haste we stumbled, and dropped him several times, but
we rolled him on the board again, rushed on, and at last got him inside the camp. Our morning
fire had gone out. Halse kindled it again, while Addison, Thomas and I tried to get off the
frozen overcoat and long cowhide boots.

The coat was simply a sheet of ice; we could do nothing with it. At last we took our knives
and cut it down the back, and after cutting open both sleeves, managed to peel it off. We had
to cut open his boots in the same way. His under-coat and all his clothes were frozen. There
appeared to be little warmth left in him; he was speechless.

But just then we heard some one coming in through the outside camp. It was the old Squire.

Our farmhouse, on the higher ground to the northwest, afforded a view of the lake; and the
old gentleman had been keeping an eye on what went on down there, for he was quite far-sighted.
He saw Sylvester arrive with his team, and a few minutes later saw us start for the shore,
lashing the horse. He knew that something had gone wrong, and hitching up old Sol, he had driven
down in haste.

"Hot water, quick!" he said. "Make some hot coffee!" And seizing a towel, he gave Sylvester
such a rubbing as it is safe to say he had never undergone before.

Gradually signs of life and color appeared. The man began to speak, although rather thickly.

