Having answered each question to his Highness' satisfaction, he handed me letters of introduction
to his officers at Bagamoyo and Kaole, and a general introductory letter to all Arab merchants
whom I might meet on the road, and concluded his remarks to me, with the expressed hope, that
on whatever mission I was bound, I should be perfectly successful.

We bowed ourselves out of his presence in much the same manner that we had bowed ourselves
in, he accompanying us to the great entrance door.

Mr. Goodhue of Salem, an American merchant long resident in Zanzibar, presented me, as I gave
him my adieu, with a blooded bay horse, imported from the Cape of Good Hope, and worth, at
least at Zanzibar, $500.

Feb. 4.--By the 4th of February, twenty-eight days from the date of my arrival at Zanzibar,
the organization and equipment of the "`New York Herald' Expedition" was complete; tents and
saddles had been manufactured, boats and sails were ready.  The donkeys brayed, and the horses
neighed impatiently for the road.

Etiquette demanded that I should once more present my card to the European and American Consuls
at Zanzibar, and the word "farewell" was said to everybody.

On the fifth day, four dhows were anchored before the American Consulate.  Into one were lifted
the two horses, into two others the donkeys, into the fourth, the largest, the black escort,
and bulky moneys of the Expedition.

A little before noon we set sail.  The American flag, a present to the Expedition by that kind-hearted
lady, Mrs. Webb, was raised to the mast-head; the Consul, his lady, and exuberant little children,
Mary and Charley, were on the housetop waving the starry banner, hats, and handkerchiefs, a
token of farewell to me and mine.  Happy people, and good! may their course and ours be prosperous,
and may God's blessing rest on us all!

CHAPTER IV.  LIFE AT BAGAMOYO.

The isle of Zanzibar with its groves of cocoa-nut, mango, clove, and cinnamon, and its sentinel
islets of Chumbi and French, with its whitewashed city and jack-fruit odor, with its harbor
and ships that tread the deep, faded slowly from view, and looking westward, the African continent
rose, a similar bank of green verdure to that which had just receded till it was a mere sinuous
line above the horizon, looming in a northerly direction to the sublimity of a mountain chain.
The distance across from Zanzibar to Bagamoyo may be about twenty-five miles, yet it took the
dull and lazy dhows ten hours before they dropped anchor on the top of the coral reef plainly
visible a few feet below the surface of the water, within a hundred yards of the beach.

The newly-enlisted soldiers, fond of noise and excitement, discharged repeated salvos by way
of a salute to the mixed crowd of Arabs, Banyans, and Wasawahili, who stood on the beach to
receive the Musungu (white man), which they did with a general stare and a chorus of "Yambo,
bana?" (how are you, master?)

In our own land the meeting with a large crowd is rather a tedious operation, as our independent
citizens insist on an interlacing of fingers, and a vigorous shaking thereof before their pride
is satisfied, and the peaceful manifestation endorsed; but on this beach, well lined with spectators,
a response of "Yambo, bana!" sufficed, except with one who of all there was acknowledged the
greatest, and who, claiming, like all great men, individual attention, came forward to exchange
another "Yambo!" on his own behalf, and to shake hands.  This personage with a long trailing
turban, was Jemadar Esau, commander of the Zanzibar force of soldiers, police, or Baluch gendarmes
stationed at Bagamoyo. He had accompanied Speke and Grant a good distance into the interior,
and they had rewarded him liberally.  He took upon himself the responsibility of assisting
in the debarkation of the Expedition, and unworthy as was his appearance, disgraceful as he
was in his filth, I here commend him for his influence over the rabble to all future East African
travellers.

Foremost among those who welcomed us was a Father of the Society of St.-Esprit, who with other
Jesuits, under Father Superior Horner, have established a missionary post of considerable influence
and merit at Bagamoyo.  We were invited to partake of the hospitality of the Mission, to take
our meals there, and, should we desire it, to pitch our camp on their grounds.  But however
strong the geniality of the welcome and sincere the heartiness of the invitation, I am one
of those who prefer independence to dependence if it is possible.  Besides, my sense of the
obligation between host and guest had just had a fine edge put upon it by the delicate forbearance
of my kind host at Zanzibar, who had betrayed no sign of impatience at the trouble I was only
too conscious of having caused him.  I therefore informed the hospitable Padre, that only for
one night could I suffer myself to be enticed from my camp.

I selected a house near the western outskirts of the town, where there is a large open square
through which the road from Unyanyembe enters.  Had I been at Bagamoyo a month, I could not
have bettered my location.  My tents were pitched fronting the tembe (house) I had chosen,
enclosing a small square, where business could be transacted, bales looked over, examined,
and marked, free from the intrusion of curious sightseers.  After driving the twenty-seven
animals of the Expedition into the enclosure in the rear of the house, storing the bales of
goods, and placing a cordon of soldiers round, I proceeded to the Jesuit Mission, to a late
dinner, being tired and ravenous, leaving the newly-formed camp in charge of the white men
and Capt. Bombay.

The Mission is distant from the town a good half mile, to the north of it; it is quite a village
of itself, numbering some fifteen or sixteen houses.  There are more than ten padres engaged
in the establishment, and as many sisters, and all find plenty of occupation in educing from
native crania the fire of intelligence. Truth compels me to state that they are very successful,
having over two hundred pupils, boys and girls, in the Mission, and, from the oldest to the
youngest, they show the impress of the useful education they have received.

The dinner furnished to the padres and their guest consisted of as many plats as a first-class
hotel in Paris usually supplies, and cooked with nearly as much skill, though the surroundings
were by no means equal.  I feel assured also that the padres, besides being tasteful in their
potages and entrees, do not stultify their ideas for lack of that element which Horace, Hafiz,
and Byron have praised so much.  The champagne--think of champagne Cliquot in East Africa!--Lafitte,
La Rose, Burgundy, and Bordeaux were of first-rate quality, and the meek and lowly eyes of
the fathers were not a little brightened under the vinous influence.  Ah! those fathers understand
life, and appreciate its duration.  Their festive board drives the African jungle fever from
their doors, while it soothes the gloom and isolation which strike one with awe, as one emerges
from the lighted room and plunges into the depths of the darkness of an African night, enlivened
only by the wearying monotone of the frogs and crickets, and the distant ululation of the hyena.
It requires somewhat above human effort, unaided by the ruby liquid that cheers, to be always
suave and polite amid the dismalities of native life in Africa.

After the evening meal, which replenished my failing strength, and for which I felt the intensest
gratitude, the most advanced of the pupils came forward, to the number of twenty, with brass
instruments, thus forming a full band of music.  It rather astonished me to hear instrumental
sounds issue forth in harmony from such woolly-headed youngsters; to hear well-known French
music at this isolated port, to hear negro boys, that a few months ago knew nothing beyond
the traditions of their ignorant mothers, stand forth and chant Parisian songs about French
valor and glory, with all the sangfroid of gamins from the purlieus of Saint-Antoine.

I had a most refreshing night's rest, and at dawn I sought out my camp, with a will to enjoy
the new life now commencing.  On counting the animals, two donkeys were missing; and on taking
notes of my African moneys, one coil of No. 6 wire was not to be found.  Everybody had evidently
fallen on the ground to sleep, oblivious of the fact that on the coast there are many dishonest
prowlers at night.  Soldiers were despatched to search through the town and neighbourhood,
and Jemadar Esau was apprised of our loss, and stimulated to discover the animals by the promise
of a reward.  Before night one of the missing donkeys was found outside the town nibbling at
manioc-leaves, but the other animal and the coil of wire were never found.

Among my visitors this first day at Bagamoyo was Ali bin Salim, a brother of the famous Sayd
bin Salim, formerly Ras Kafilah to Burton and Speke, and subsequently to Speke and Grant. 
His salaams were very profuse, and moreover, his brother was to be my agent in Unyamwezi, so
that I did not hesitate to accept his offer of assistance.  But, alas, for my white face and
too trustful nature! this Ali bin Salim turned out to be a snake in the grass, a very sore
thorn in my side.  I was invited to his comfortable house to partake of coffee.  I went there:
the coffee was good though sugarless, his promises were many, but they proved valueless. Said
he to me, "I am your friend; I wish to serve you., what can I do for you?"  Replied I, "I am
obliged to you, I need a good friend who, knowing the language and Customs of the Wanyamwezi,
can procure me the pagazis I need and send me off quickly.  Your brother is acquainted with
the Wasungu (white men), and knows that what they promise they make good.  Get me a hundred
and forty pagazis and I will pay you your price."   With unctuous courtesy, the reptile I was
now warmly nourishing; said, "I do not want anything from you, my friend, for such a slight
service, rest content and quiet; you shall not stop here fifteen days.  To-morrow morning I
will come and overhaul your bales to see what is needed."  I bade him good morning, elated
with the happy thought that I was soon to tread the Unyanyembe road.

The reader must be made acquainted with two good and sufficient reasons why I was to devote
all my energy to lead the Expedition as quickly as possible from Bagamoyo.

First, I wished to reach Ujiji before the news reached Livingstone that I was in search of
him, for my impression of him was that he was a man who would try to put as much distance as
possible between us, rather than make an effort to shorten it, and I should have my long journey
for nothing.

Second, the Masika, or rainy season, would soon be on me, which, if it caught me at Bagamoyo,
would prevent my departure until it was over, which meant a delay of forty days, and exaggerated
as the rains were by all men with whom I came in contact, it rained every day for forty days
without intermission.  This I knew was a thing to dread; for I had my memory stored with all
kinds of rainy unpleasantnesses.  For instance, there was the rain of Virginia and its concomitant
horrors--wetness, mildew, agues, rheumatics, and such like; then there were the English rains,
a miserable drizzle causing the blue devils; then the rainy season of Abyssinia with the flood-gates
of the firmament opened, and an universal down-pour of rain, enough to submerge half a continent
in a few hours; lastly, there was the pelting monsoon of India, a steady shut-in-house kind
of rain.  To which of these rains should I compare this dreadful Masika of East Africa?  Did
not Burton write much about black mud in Uzaramo?  Well, a country whose surface soil is called
black mud in fine weather, what can it be called when forty days' rain beat on it, and feet
of pagazis and donkeys make paste of it?  These were natural reflections, induced by the circumstances
of the hour, and I found myself much exercised in mind in consequence.

Ali bin Salim, true to his promise, visited my camp on the morrow, with a very important air,
and after looking at the pile of cloth bales, informed me that I must have them covered with
mat-bags.  He said he would send a man to have them measured, but he enjoined me not to make
any bargain for the bags, as he would make it all right.

While awaiting with commendable patience the 140 pagazis promised by Ali bin Salim we were
all employed upon everything that thought could suggest needful for crossing the sickly maritime
region, so that we might make the transit before the terrible fever could unnerve us, and make
us joyless.  A short experience at Bagamoya showed us what we lacked, what was superfluous,
and what was necessary.  We were visited one night by a squall, accompanied by furious rain.
I had $1,500 worth of pagazi cloth in my tent. In the morning I looked and lo! the drilling
had let in rain like a sieve, and every yard of cloth was wet. It occupied two days afterwards
to dry the cloths, and fold them again.  The drill-tent was condemned, and a No. 5 hemp-canvas
tent at onto prepared.  After which I felt convinced that my cloth bales, and one year's ammunition,
were safe, and that I could defy the Masika.

In the hurry of departure from Zanzibar, and in my ignorance of how bales should be made, I
had submitted to the better judgment and ripe experience of one Jetta, a commission merchant,
to prepare my bales for carriage.  Jetta did not weigh the bales as he made them up, but piled
the Merikani, Kaniki, Barsati, Jamdani, Joho, Ismahili, in alternate layers, and roped the
same into bales. One or two pagazis came to my camp and began to chaffer; they wished to see
the bales first, before they would make a final bargain.  They tried to raise them up--ugh!
ugh! it was of no use, and withdrew.  A fine Salter's spring balance was hung up, and a bale
suspended to the hook; the finger indicated 105 lbs. or 3 frasilah, which was just 35 lbs.
or one frasilah overweight. Upon putting all the bales to this test, I perceived that Jetta's
guess-work, with all his experience, had caused considerable trouble to me.

The soldiers were set to work to reopen and repack, which latter task is performed in the following
manner:--We cut a doti, or four yards of Merikani, ordinarily sold at Zanzibar for $2.75 the
piece of thirty yards, and spread out. We take a piece or bolt of good Merikani, and instead
of the double fold given it by the Nashua and Salem mills, we fold it into three parts, by
which the folds have a breadth of a foot; this piece forms the first layer, and will weigh
nine pounds; the second layer consists of six pieces of Kaniki, a blue stuff similar to the
blouse stuff of France, and th blue jeans of America, though much lighter; the third layer
is formed of the second piece of Merikani, the fourth of six more pieces of Kaniki, the fifth
of Merikani, the sixth of Kaniki as before, and the seventh and last of Merikani.  We have
thus four pieces of Merikani, which weigh 36 lbs., and 18 pieces of Kaniki weighing also 36
lbs., making a total of 72 lbs., or a little more than two frasilahs; the cloth is then folded
singly over these layers, each corner tied to another.  A bundle of coir-rope is then brought,
and two men, provided with a wooden mallet for beating and pressing the bale, proceed to tie
it up with as much nicety as sailors serve down rigging.

When complete, a bale is a solid mass three feet and a half long, a foot deep, and a foot wide.
Of these bales I had to convey eighty-two to Unyanyembe, forty of which consisted solely of
the Merikani and Kaniki.  The other forty-two contained the Merikani and coloured cloths, which
latter were to serve as honga or tribute cloths, and to engage another set of pagazis from
Unyanyembe to Ujiji, and from Ujiji to the regions beyond.

The fifteenth day asked of me by Ali bin Salim for the procuring of the pagazis passed by,
and there was not the ghost of a pagazi in my camp.  I sent Mabruki the Bullheaded to Ali bin
Salim, to convey my salaams and express a hope that he had kept his word. In half an hour's
time Mabruki returned with the reply of the Arab, that in a few days he would be able to collect
them all; but, added Mabruki, slyly, "Bana, I don't believe him.  He said aloud to himself,
in my hearing, `Why should I get the Musungu pagazis?  Seyd Burghash did not send a letter
to me, but to the Jemadar.  Why should I trouble myself about him?  Let Seyd Burghash write
me a letter to that purpose, and I will procure them within two days."'

To my mind this was a time for action:  Ali bin Salim should see that it was ill trifling with
a white man in earnest to start. I rode down to his house to ask him what he meant.

His reply was, Mabruki had told a lie as black as his face.  He had never said anything approaching
to such a thing.  He was willing to become my slave--to become a pagazi himself.  But here
I stopped the voluble Ali, and informed him that I could not think of employing him in the
capacity of a pagazi, neither could I find it in my heart to trouble Seyd Burghash to write
a direct letter to him, or to require of a man who had deceived me once, as Ali bin Salim had,
any service of any nature whatsoever.  It would be better, therefore, if Ali bin Salim would
stay away from my camp, and not enter it either in person or by proxy.

I had lost fifteen days, for Jemadar Sadur, at Kaole, had never stirred from his fortified
house in that village in my service, save to pay a visit, after the receipt of the Sultan's
letter. Naranji, custom-house agent at Kaoie, solely under the thumb of the great Ludha Damji,
had not responded to Ludha's worded request that he would procure pagazis, except with winks,
nods, and promises, and it is but just stated how I fared at the hands of Ali bin Salim.  In
this extremity I remembered the promise made to me by the great merchant of Zanzibar--Tarya
Topan--a Mohammedan Hindi--that he would furnish me with a letter to a young man named Soor
Hadji Palloo, who was said to be the best man in Bagamoyo to procure a supply of pagazis.

I despatched my Arab interpreter by a dhow to Zanzibar, with a very earnest request to Capt.
Webb that he would procure from Tarya Topan the introductory letter so long delayed.  It was
the last card in my hand.

On the third day the Arab returned, bringing with him not only the letter to Soor Hadji Palloo,
but an abundance of good things from the ever-hospitable house of Mr. Webb.  In a very short
time after the receipt of his letter, the eminent young man Soor Hadji Palloo came to visit
me, and informed me he had been requested by Tarya Topan to hire for me one hundred and forty
pagazis to Unyanyembe in the shortest time possible.  This he said would be very expensive,
for there were scores of Arabs and Wasawabili merchants on the look out for every caravan that
came in from the interior, and they paid 20 doti, or 80 yards of cloth, to each pagazi.  Not
willing or able to pay more, many of these merchants had been waiting as long as six months
before they could get their quota.  "If you," continued he, "desire to depart quickly, you
must pay from 25 to 40 doti, and I can send you off before one month is ended.  "In reply,
I said, "Here are my cloths for pagazis to the amount of $1,750, or 3,500 doti, sufficient
to give one hundred and forty men 25 doti each.  The most I am willing to pay is 25 doti: send
one hundred and forty pagazis to Unyanyembe with my cloth and wire, and I will make your heart
glad with the richest present you have ever received."  With a refreshing naivete, the "young
man" said he did not want any present, he would get me my quota of pagazis, and then I could
tell the "Wasungu" what a good "young man" he was, and consequently the benefit he would receive
would be an increase of business.  He closed his reply with the astounding remark that he had
ten pagazis at his house already, and if I would be good enough to have four bales of cloth,
two bags of beads, and twenty coils of wire carried to his house, the pagazis could leave Bagamoyo
the next day, under charge of three soldiers.

"For, he remarked, "it is much better and cheaper to send many small caravans than one large
one.  Large caravans invite attack, or are delayed by avaricious chiefs upon the most trivial
pretexts, while small ones pass by without notice."

The bales and the beads were duly carried to Soor Hadji Palloo's house, and the day passed
with me in mentally congratulating myself upon my good fortune, in complimenting the young
Hindi's talents for business, the greatness and influence of Tarya Topan, and the goodness
of Mr. Webb in thus hastening my departure from Bagamoyo. I mentally vowed a handsome present,
and a great puff in my book, to Soor Hadji Palloo, and it was with a glad heart that I prepared
these soldiers for their march to Unyayembe.

The task of preparing the first caravan for the Unyanyembe road informed me upon several things
that have escaped the notice of my predecessors in East Africa, a timely knowledge of which
would have been of infinite service to me at Zanzibar, in the purchase and selection of sufficient
and proper cloth.

The setting out of the first caravan enlightened me also on the subject of honga, or tribute.
Tribute had to be packed by itself, all of choice cloth; for the chiefs, besides being avaricious,
are also very fastidious.  They will not accept the flimsy cloth of the pagazi, but a royal
and exceedingly high-priced dabwani, Ismahili, Rehani, or a Sohari, or dotis of crimson broad
cloth.  The tribute for the first caravan cost $25.  Having more than one hundred and forty
pagazis to despatch, this tribute money would finally amount to $330 in gold, with a minimum
of 25c. on each dollar.  Ponder on this, O traveller!  I lay bare these facts for your special
instruction.

But before my first caravan was destined to part company with me, Soor Hadji Palloo--worthy
young man--and I were to come to a definite understanding about money matters.  The morning
appointed for departure Soor Hadji Palloo came to my hut and presented his bill, with all the
gravity of innocence, for supplying the pagazis with twenty-five doti each as their hire to
Unyanyembe, begging immediate payment in money.  Words fail to express the astonishment I naturally
felt, that this sharp-looking young man should so soon have forgotten the verbal contract entered
into between him and myself the morning previous, which was to the effect that out of the three
thousand doti stored in my tent, and bought expressly for pagazi hire, each and every man hired
for me as carriers from Bagamoyo to Unyanyembe, should be paid out of the store there in my
tent.  when I asked if he remembered the contract, he replied in the affirmative: his reasons
for breaking it so soon were, that he wished to sell his cloths, not mine, and for his cloths
he should want money, not an exchange.  But I gave him to comprehend that as he was procuring
pagazis for me, he was to pay my pagazis with my cloths; that all the money I expected to pay
him, should be just such a sum I thought adequate for his trouble as my agent, and that only
on those terms should he act for me in this or any other matter, and that the "Musungu" was
not accustomed to eat his words.

The preceding paragraph embodies many more words than are contained in it.  It embodies a dialogue
of an hour, an angry altercation of half-an-hour's duration, a vow taken on the part of Soor
Hadji Palloo, that if I did not take his cloths he should not touch my business, many tears,
entreaties, woeful penitence, and much else, all of which were responded to with, "Do as I
want you to do, or do nothing.  "Finally came relief, and a happy ending.  Soor Hadji Palloo
went away with a bright face, taking with him the three soldiers' posho (food), and honga (tribute)
for the caravan.  Well for me that it ended so, and that subsequent quarrels of a similar nature
terminated so peaceably, otherwise I doubt whether my departure from Bagamoyo would have happened
so early as it did. While I am on this theme, and as it really engrossed every moment of my
time at Bagamoyo, I may as well be more explicit regarding Boor Hadji Palloo and his connection
with my business.

Soor Hadji Palloo was a smart young man of business, energetic, quick at mental calculation,
and seemed to be born for a successful salesman.  His eyes were never idle; they wandered over
every part of my person, over the tent, the bed, the guns, the clothes, and having swung clear
round, began the silent circle over again. His fingers were never at rest, they had a fidgety,
nervous action at their tips, constantly in the act of feeling something; while in the act
of talking to me, he would lean over and feel the texture of the cloth of my trousers, my coat,
or my shoes or socks: then he would feel his own light jamdani shirt or dabwain loin-cloth,
until his eyes casually resting upon a novelty, his body would lean forward, and his arm was
stretched out with the willing fingers.  His jaws also were in perpetual motion, caused by
vile habits he had acquired of chewing betel-nut and lime, and sometimes tobacco and lime.
They gave out a sound similar to that of a young shoat, in the act of sucking.  He was a pious
Mohammedan, and observed the external courtesies and ceremonies of the true believers.  He
would affably greet me, take off his shoes, enter my tent protesting he was not fit to sit
in my presence, and after being seated, would begin his ever-crooked errand.  Of honesty, literal
and practical honesty, this youth knew nothing; to the pure truth he was an utter stranger;
the falsehoods he had uttered during his short life seemed already to have quenched the bold
gaze of innocence from his eyes, to have banished the colour of truthfulness from his features,
to have transformed him--yet a stripling of twenty--into a most accomplished rascal, and consummate
expert in dishonesty.

