"At least," thought Lord Kilcullen to himself, as he good-humouredly shook hands with his father
at the termination of the interview--"I have not done so badly, for those infernal dogs will
be silenced, and I shall get the money. I could not have gone back without that. I can go on
with the marriage, or not, as I may choose, hereafter. It won't be a bad speculation, however."

To do Lord Cashel justice, he did not intend cheating his son, nor did he suspect his son of
an intention to cheat him. But the generation was deteriorating.

XIV.  THE COUNTESS

It was delightful to see on what good terms the earl and his son met that evening at dinner.
The latter even went so far as to be decently civil to his mother, and was quite attentive
to Fanny. She, however, did not seem to appreciate the compliment. It was now a fortnight since
she had heard of her brother's death, and during the whole of that time she had been silent,
unhappy, and fretful. Not a word more had been said to her about Lord Ballindine, nor had she,
as yet, spoken about him to any one; but she had been thinking about little else, and had ascertained,--at
least, so she thought,--that she could never be happy, unless she were reconciled to him.

The more she brooded over the subject, the more she felt convinced that such was the case;
she could not think how she had ever been induced to sanction, by her name, such an unwarrantable
proceeding as the unceremonious dismissal of a man to whom her troth had been plighted, merely
because he had not called to see her. As for his not writing, she was aware that Lord Cashel
had recommended that, till she was of age, they should not correspond. As she thought the matter
over in her own room, long hour after hour, she became angry with herself for having been talked
into a feeling of anger for him. What right had she to be angry because he kept horses? She
could not expect him to put himself into Lord Cashel's leading-strings. Indeed, she thought
she would have liked him less if he had done so. And now, to reject him just when circumstances
put it in her power to enable her to free him from his embarrassments, and live a manner becoming
his station! What must Frank think of her?--For he could not but suppose that her rejection
had been caused by her unexpected inheritance.

In the course of the fortnight, she made up her mind that all Lord Cashel had said to Lord
Ballindine should be unsaid;--but who was to do it? It would be a most unpleasant task to perform;
and one which, she was aware, her guardian would be most unwilling to undertake. She fully
resolved that she would do it herself, if she could find no fitting ambassador to undertake
the task, though that would be a step to which she would fain not be driven. At one time, she
absolutely thought of asking her cousin, Kilcullen, about it:--this was just before his leaving
Grey Abbey; he seemed so much more civil and kind than usual. But then, she knew so little
of him, and so little liked what she did know: that scheme, therefore, was given up. Lady Selina
was so cold, and prudent--would talk to her so much about propriety, self-respect, and self-control,
that she could not make a confidante of her. No one could talk to Selina on any subject more
immediately interesting than a Roman Emperor, or a pattern for worsted-work. Fanny felt that
she would not be equal, herself, to going boldly to Lord Cashel, and desiring him to inform
Lord Ballindine that he had been mistaken in the view he had taken of his ward's wishes: no--that
was impossible; such a proceeding would probably bring on a fit of apoplexy.

There was no one else to whom she could apply, but her aunt. Lady Cashel was a very good-natured
old woman, who slept the greatest portion of her time, and knitted through the rest of her
existence. She did not take a prominent part in any of the important doings of Grey Abbey;
and, though Lord Cashel constantly referred to her, for he thought it respectable to do so,
no one regarded her much. Fanny felt, however, that she would neither scold her, ridicule her,
nor refuse to listen: to Lady Cashel, therefore, at last, she went for assistance.

Her ladyship always passed the morning, after breakfast, in a room adjoining her own bed-room,
in which she daily held deep debate with Griffiths, her factotum, respecting household affairs,
knitting-needles, and her own little ailments and cossetings. Griffiths, luckily, was a woman
of much the same tastes as her ladyship, only somewhat of a more active temperament; and they
were most stedfast friends. It was such a comfort to Lady Cashel to have some one to whom she
could twaddle!

The morning after Lord Kilcullen's departure Fanny knocked at her door, and was asked to come
in. The countess, as usual, was in her easy chair, with the knitting-apparatus in her lap,
and Griffiths was seated at the table, pulling about threads, and keeping her ladyship awake
by small talk.

"I'm afraid I'm disturbing you, aunt," said Fanny, "but I wanted to speak to you for a minute
or two. Good morning, Mrs Griffiths."

"Oh, no! you won't disturb me, Fanny. I was a little busy this morning, for I wanted to finish
this side of the--You see what a deal I've done,"--and the countess lugged up a whole heap
of miscellaneous worsted from a basket just under her arm--"and I must finish it by lady-day
[25], or I shan't get the other done, I don't know when. But still, I've plenty of time to
attend to you."

     [FOOTNOTE 25: lady-day--Annunciation Day, March 25]

"Then I'll go down, my lady, and see about getting the syrup boiled," said Griffiths. "Good
morning, Miss Wyndham."

"Do; but mind you come up again immediately--I'll ring the bell when Miss Wyndham is going;
and pray don't leave me alone, now."

"No, my lady--not a moment," and Griffiths escaped to the syrup.

Fanny's heart beat quick and hard, as she sat down on the sofa, opposite to her aunt. It was
impossible for any one to be afraid of Lady Cashel, there was so very little about her that
could inspire awe; but then, what she had to say was so very disagreeable to say! If she had
had to tell her tale out loud, merely to the empty easy chair, it would have been a dreadful
undertaking.

"Well, Fanny, what can I do for you? I'm sure you look very nice in your bombazine; and it's
very nicely made up. Who was it made it for you?"

"I got it down from Dublin, aunt; from Foley's."

"Oh, I remember; so you told me. Griffiths has a niece makes those things up very well; but
then she lives at Namptwich, and one couldn't send to England for it. I had such a quantity
of mourning by me, I didn't get any made up new; else, I think I must have sent for her."

"My dear aunt, I am very unhappy about something, and I want you to help me. I'm afraid, though,
it will give you a great deal of trouble."

"Good gracious, Fanny!--what is it? Is it about poor Harry? I'm sure I grieved about him more
than I can tell."

"No, aunt: he's gone now, and time is the only cure for that grief. I know I must bear that
without complaining. But, aunt, I feel--I think, that is, that I've used Lord Ballindine very ill."

"Good gracious me, my love! I thought Lord Cashel had managed all that--I thought that was
all settled. You know, he would keep those horrid horses, and all that kind of thing; and what
more could you do than just let Lord Cashel settle it?"

"Yes, but aunt--you see, I had engaged myself to Lord Ballindine, and I don't think--in fact--oh,
aunt! I did not wish to break my word to Lord Ballindine, and I am very very sorry for what
has been done," and Fanny was again in tears.

"But, my dear Fanny," said the countess, so far excited as to commence rising from her seat--the
attempt, however, was abandoned, when she felt the ill effects of the labour to which she was
exposing herself--"but, my dear Fanny--what would you have? It's done, now, you know; and,
really, it's for the best."

"Oh, but, dear aunt, I must get somebody to see him. I've been thinking about it ever since
he was here with my uncle. I wouldn't let him think that I broke it all off, merely because--because
of poor Harry's money," and Fanny sobbed away dreadfully.

"But you don't want to marry him!" said the naïve countess.

Now, Fanny did want to marry him, though she hardly liked saying so, even to Lady Cashel.

"You know, I promised him I would," said she; "and what will he think of me?--what must he
think of me, to throw him off so cruelly, so harshly, after all that's past?--Oh, aunt! I must
see him again."

"I know something of human nature," replied the aunt, "and if you do, I tell you, it will end
in your being engaged to him again. You know it's off now. Come, my dear; don't think so much
about it: I'm sure Lord Cashel wouldn't do anything cruel or harsh."

"Oh, I must see him again, whatever comes of it;" and then she paused for a considerable time,
during which the bewildered old lady was thinking what she could do to relieve her sensitive
niece. "Dear, dear aunt, I don't want to deceive you!" and Fanny, springing up, knelt at her
aunt's feet, and looked up into her face. "I do love him--I always loved him, and I cannot,
cannot quarrel with him." And then she burst out crying vehemently, hiding her face in the
countess's lap.

Lady Cashel was quite overwhelmed. Fanny was usually so much more collected than herself, that
her present prostration, both of feeling and body, was dreadful to see. Suppose she was to
go into hysterics--there they would be alone, and Lady Cashel felt that she had not strength
to ring the bell.

"But, my dear Fanny! oh dear, oh dear, this is very dreadful!--but, Fanny--he's gone away now.
Lift up your face, Fanny, for you frighten me. Well, I'm sure I'll do anything for you. Perhaps
he wouldn't mind coming back again,--he always was very good-natured. I'm sure I always liked
Lord Ballindine very much,--only he would have all those horses. But I'm sure, if you wish
it, I should be very glad to see him marry you; only, you know, you must wait some time, because
of poor Harry; and I'm sure I don't know how you'll manage with Lord Cashel."

"Dear aunt--I want you to speak to Lord Cashel. When I was angry because I thought Frank didn't
come here as he might have done, I consented that my uncle should break off the match: besides,
then, you know, we should have had so little between us. But I didn't know then how well I
loved him. Indeed, indeed, aunt, I cannot bring my heart to quarrel with him; and I am quite,
quite sure he would never wish to quarrel with me. Will you go to my uncle--tell him that I've
changed my mind; tell him that I was a foolish girl, and did not know my mind. But tell him
I must be friends with Frank again."

"Well, of course I'll do what you wish me,--indeed, I would do anything for you, Fanny, as
if you were one of my own; but really, I don't know--Good gracious! What am I to say to him?
Wouldn't it be better, Fanny, if you were to go to him yourself?"

"Oh, no, aunt; pray do you tell him first. I couldn't go to him; besides, he would do anything
for you, you know. I want you to go to him--do, now, dear aunt--and tell him--not from me,
but from yourself--how very, very much I--that is, how very very--but you will know what to
say; only Frank must, must come back again."

"Well, Fanny, dear, I'll go to Lord Cashel; or, perhaps, he wouldn't mind coming here. Ring
the bell for me, dear. But I'm sure he'll be very angry. I'd just write a line and ask Lord
Ballindine to come and dine here, and let him settle it all himself, only I don't think Lord
Cashel would like it."

Griffiths answered the summons, and was despatched to the book-room to tell his lordship that
her ladyship would be greatly obliged if he would step upstairs to her for a minute or two;
and, as soon as Griffiths was gone on her errand, Fanny fled to her own apartment, leaving
her aunt in a very bewildered and pitiable state of mind: and there she waited, with palpitating
heart and weeping eyes, the effects of the interview.

She was dreadfully nervous, for she felt certain that she would be summoned before her uncle.
Hitherto, she alone, in all the house, had held him in no kind of awe; indeed, her respect
for her uncle had not been of the most exalted kind; but now she felt she was afraid of him.

She remained in her room much longer than she thought it would have taken her aunt to explain
what she had to say. At last, however, she heard footsteps in the corridor, and Griffiths knocked
at the door. Her aunt would be obliged by her stepping into her room. She tried not to look
disconcerted, and asked if Lord Cashel were still there. She was told that he was; and she
felt that she had to muster up all her courage to encounter him.

When she went into the room, Lady Cashel was still in her easy-chair, but the chair seemed
to lend none of its easiness to its owner. She was sitting upright, with her hands on her two
knees, and she looked perplexed, distressed, and unhappy. Lord Cashel was standing with his
back to the fire-place, and Fanny had never seen his face look so black. He really seemed,
for the time, to have given over acting, to have thrown aside his dignity, and to be natural
and in earnest.

Lady Cashel began the conversation.

"Oh, Fanny," she said, "you must really overcome all this sensitiveness; you really must. I've
spoken to your uncle, and it's quite impossible, and very unwise; and, indeed, it can't be
done at all. In fact, Lord Ballindine isn't, by any means, the sort of person I supposed."

Fanny knit her brows a little at this, and felt somewhat less humble than she did before. She
knew she should get indignant if her uncle abused her lover, and that, if she did, her courage
would rise in proportion. Her aunt continued--

"Your uncle's very kind about it, and says he can, of course, forgive your feeling a little
out of sorts just at present; and, I'm sure, so can I, and I'm sure I'd do anything to make
you happy; but as for making it all up with Lord Ballindine again, indeed it cannot be thought
of, Fanny; and so your uncle will tell you."

And then Lord Cashel opened his oracular mouth, for the purpose of doing so.

"Really, Fanny, this is the most unaccountable thing I ever heard of. But you'd better sit
down, while I speak to you," and Fanny sat down on the sofa. "I think I understood you rightly,
when you desired me, less than a month ago, to inform Lord Ballindine that circumstances--that
is, his own conduct--obliged you to decline the honour of his alliance. Did you not do so spontaneously,
and of your own accord?"

"Certainly, uncle, I agreed to take your advice; though I did so most unwillingly."

"Had I not your authority for desiring him--I won't say to discontinue his visits, for that
he had long done--but to give up his pretensions to your hand? Did you not authorise me to do so?"

"I believe I did. But, uncle--"

"And I have done as you desired me; and now, Fanny, that I have done so--now that I have fully
explained to him what you taught me to believe were your wishes on the subject, will you tell
me--for I really think your aunt must have misunderstood you--what it is that you wish me to do?"

"Why, uncle, you pointed out--and it was very true then, that my fortune was not sufficient
to enable Lord Ballindine to keep up his rank. It is different now, and I am very, very sorry
that it is so; but it is different now, and I feel that I ought not to reject Lord Ballindine,
because I am so much richer than I was when he--when he proposed to me."

"Then it's merely a matter of feeling with you, and not of affection? If I understand you,
you are afraid that you should be thought to have treated Lord Ballindine badly?"

"It's not only that--" And then she paused for a few moments, and added, "I thought I could
have parted with him, when you made me believe that I ought to do so, but I find I cannot."

"You mean that you love him?" and the earl looked very black at his niece. He intended to frighten
her out of her resolution, but she quietly answered,

"Yes, uncle, I do."

"And you want me to tell him so, after having banished him from my house?"

Fanny's eyes again shot fire at the word "banished", but she answered, very quietly, and even
with a smile,

"No, uncle; but I want you to ask him here again. I might tell him the rest myself."

"But, Fanny, dear," said the countess, "your uncle couldn't do it: you know, he told him to
go away before. Besides, I really don't think he'd come; he's so taken up with those horrid
horses, and that Mr Blake, who is worse than any of 'em. Really, Fanny, Kilcullen says that
he and Mr Blake are quite notorious."

"I think, aunt, Lord Kilcullen might be satisfied with looking after himself. If it depended
on him, he never had a kind word to say for Lord Ballindine."

"But you know, Fanny," continued the aunt, "he knows everybody; and if he says Lord Ballindine
is that sort of person, why, it must be so, though I'm sure I'm very sorry to hear it."

Lord Cashel saw that he could not trust any more to his wife: that last hit about Kilcullen
had been very unfortunate; so he determined to put an end to all Fanny's yearnings after her
lover with a strong hand, and said,

"If you mean, Fanny, after what has passed, that I should go to Lord Ballindine, and give him
to understand that he is again welcome to Grey Abbey, I must at once tell you that it is absolutely--absolutely
impossible. If I had no personal objection to the young man on any prudential score, the very
fact of my having already, at your request, desired his absence from my house, would be sufficient
to render it impossible. I owe too much to my own dignity, and am too anxious for your reputation,
to think of doing such a thing. But when I also remember that Lord Ballindine is a reckless,
dissipated gambler--I much fear, with no fixed principle, I should consider any step towards
renewing the acquaintance between you a most wicked and unpardonable proceeding."

When Fanny heard her lover designated as a reckless gambler, she lost all remaining feelings
of fear at her uncle's anger, and, standing up, looked him full in the face through her tears.

"It's not so, my lord!" she said, when he had finished. "He is not what you have said. I know
him too well to believe such things of him, and I will not submit to hear him abused."

"Oh, Fanny, my dear!" said the frightened countess; "don't speak in that way. Surely, your
uncle means to act for your own happiness; and don't you know Lord Ballindine has those horrid
horses?"

"If I don't mind his horses, aunt, no one else need; but he's no gambler, and he's not dissipated--I'm
sure not half so much so as Lord Kilcullen."

"In that, Fanny, you're mistaken," said the earl; "but I don't wish to discuss the matter with
you. You must, however, fully understand this: Lord Ballindine cannot be received under this
roof. If you regret him, you must remember that his rejection was your own act. I think you
then acted most prudently, and I trust it will not be long before you are of the same opinion
yourself," and Lord Cashel moved to the door as though he had accomplished his part in the
interview.

"Stop one moment, uncle," said Fanny, striving hard to be calm, and hardly succeeding. "I did
not ask my aunt to speak to you on this subject, till I had turned it over and over in my mind,
and resolved that I would not make myself and another miserable for ever, because I had been
foolish enough not to know my mind. You best know whether you can ask Lord Ballindine to Grey
Abbey or not; but I am determined, if I cannot see him here, that I will see him somewhere
else," and she turned towards the door, and then, thinking of her aunt, she turned back and
kissed her, and immediately left the room.

The countess looked up at her husband, quite dumbfounded, and he seemed rather distressed himself.
However, he muttered something about her being a hot-headed simpleton and soon thinking better
about it, and then betook himself to his private retreat, to hold sweet converse with his own
thoughts--having first rung the bell for Griffiths, to pick up the scattered threads of her
mistress's knitting.

Lord Cashel certainly did not like the look of things. There was a determination in Fanny's
eye, as she made her parting speech, which upset him rather, and which threw considerable difficulties
in the way of Lord Kilcullen's wooing. To be sure, time would do a great deal: but then, there
wasn't so much time to spare. He had already taken steps to borrow the thirty thousand pounds,
and had, indeed, empowered his son to receive it: he had also pledged himself for the other
fifty; and then, after all, that perverse fool of a girl would insist on being in love with
that scapegrace, Lord Ballindine! This, however, might wear away, and he would take very good
care that she should hear of his misdoings. It would be very odd if, after all, his plans were
to be destroyed, and his arrangements disconcerted by his own ward, and niece--especially when
he designed so great a match for her!

He could not, however, make himself quite comfortable, though he had great confidence in his
own diplomatic resources.

XV.  HANDICAP LODGE

Lord Ballindine left Grey Abbey, and rode homewards, towards Handicap Lodge, in a melancholy
and speculative mood. His first thoughts were all of Harry Wyndham. Frank, as the accepted
suitor of his sister, had known him well and intimately, and had liked him much; and the poor
young fellow had been much attached to him. He was greatly shocked to hear of his death. It
was not yet a month since he had seen him shining in all the new-blown splendour of his cavalry
regimentals, and Lord Ballindine was unfeignedly grieved to think how short a time the lad
had lived to enjoy them. His thoughts, then, naturally turned to his own position, and the
declaration which Lord Cashel had made to him respecting himself. Could it be absolutely true
that Fanny had determined to give him up altogether?--After all her willing vows, and assurances
of unalterable affection, could she be so cold as to content herself with sending him a formal
message, by her uncle, that she did not wish to see him again? Frank argued with himself that
it was impossible; he was sure he knew her too well. But still, Lord Cashel would hardly tell
him a downright lie, and he had distinctly stated that the rejection came from Miss Wyndham
herself.

Then, he began to feel indignant, and spurred his horse, and rode a little faster, and made
a few resolutions as to upholding his own dignity. He would run after neither Lord Cashel nor
his niece; he would not even ask her to change her mind, since she had been able to bring herself
to such a determination as that expressed to him. But he would insist on seeing her; she could
not refuse that to him, after what had passed between them, and he would then tell her what
he thought of her, and leave her for ever. But no; he would do nothing to vex her, as long
as she was grieving for her brother. Poor Harry!--she loved him so dearly! Perhaps, after all,
his sudden rejection was, in some manner, occasioned by this sad event, and would be revoked
as her sorrow grew less with time. And then, for the first time, the idea shot across his mind,
of the wealth Fanny must inherit by her brother's death.

It certainly had a considerable effect on him, for he breathed slow awhile, and was some little
time before he could entirely realise the conception that Fanny was now the undoubted owner
of a large fortune. "That is it," thought he to himself, at last; "that sordid earl considers
that he can now be sure of a higher match for his niece, and Fanny has allowed herself to be
persuaded out of her engagement: she has allowed herself to be talked into the belief that
it was her duty to give up a poor man like me." And then, he felt very angry again. "Heavens!"
said he to himself--"is it possible she should be so servile and so mean? Fanny Wyndham, who
cared so little for the prosy admonitions of her uncle, a few months since, can she have altered
her disposition so completely? Can the possession of her brother's money have made so vile
a change in her character? Could she be the same Fanny who had so entirely belonged to him,
who had certainly loved him truly once? Perish her money! he had sought her from affection
alone; he had truly and fondly loved her; he had determined to cling to her, in spite of the
advice of his friends! And then, he found himself deserted and betrayed by her, because circumstances
had given her the probable power of making a better match!"

Such were Lord Ballindine's thoughts; and he flattered himself with the reflection that he
was a most cruelly used, affectionate, and disinterested lover. He did not, at the moment,
remember that it was Fanny's twenty thousand pounds which had first attracted his notice; and
that he had for a considerable time wavered, before he made up his mind to part with himself
at so low a price. It was not to be expected that he should remember that, just at present;
and he rode on, considerably out of humour with all the world except himself.

As he got near to Handicap Lodge, however, the genius of the master-spirit of that classic
spot came upon him, and he began to bethink himself that it would be somewhat foolish of him
to give up the game just at present. He reflected that a hundred thousand pounds would work
a wondrous change and improvement at Kelly's Court--and that, if he was before prepared to
marry Fanny Wyndham in opposition to the wishes of her guardian, he should now be doubly determined
to do so, even though all Grey Abbey had resolved to the contrary. The last idea in his mind,
as he got off his horse at his friend's door was, as to what Dot Blake would think, and say,
of the tidings he brought home with him?

It was dark when he reached Handicap Lodge, and, having first asked whether Mr Blake was in,
and heard that he was dressing for dinner, he went to perform the same operation himself. When
he came down, full of his budget, and quite ready, as usual, to apply to Dot for advice, he
was surprised, and annoyed, to find two other gentlemen in the room, together with Blake. What
a bore! to have to make one of a dinner-party of four, and the long protracted rubber of shorts
which would follow it, when his mind was so full of other concerns! However, it was not to
be avoided.

The guests were, the fat, good-humoured, ready-witted Mat Tierney, and a little Connaught member
of Parliament, named Morris, who wore a wig, played a very good rubber of whist, and knew a
good deal about selling hunters. He was not very bright, but he told one or two good stories
of his own adventures in the world, which he repeated oftener than was approved of by his intimate
friends; and he drank his wine plentifully and discreetly--for, if he didn't get a game of
cards after consuming a certain quantum, he invariably went to sleep.

There was something in the manner in which the three greeted him, on entering the room, which
showed him that they had been speaking of him and his affairs. Dot was the first to address him.

"Well, Frank, I hope I am to wish you joy. I hope you've made a good morning's work of it?"

Frank looked rather distressed: before he could answer, however, Mat Tierney said,

"Well, Ballindine, upon my soul I congratulate you sincerely, though, of course, you've seen
nothing at Grey Abbey but tears and cambric handkerchiefs. I'm very glad, now, that what Kilcullen
told me wasn't true. He left Dublin for London yesterday, and I suppose he won't hear of his
cousin's death before he gets there."

"Upon my honour, Lord Ballindine," said the horse-dealing member, "you are a lucky fellow.
I believe old Wyndham was a regular golden nabob, and I suppose, now, you'll touch the whole
of his gatherings."

Dot and his guests had heard of Harry Wyndham's death, and Fanny's accession of fortune; but
they had not heard that she had rejected her lover, and that he had been all but turned out
of her guardian's house. Nor did he mean to tell them; but he did not find himself pleasantly
situated in having to hear their congratulations and listen to their jokes, while he himself
felt that the rumour which he had so emphatically denied to Mat Tierney, only two days since,
had turned out to be true.

Not one of the party made the slightest reference to the poor brother from whom Fanny's new
fortune had come, except as the lucky means of conveying it to her. There was no regret even
pretended for his early death, no sympathy expressed with Fanny's sorrow. And there was, moreover,
an evident conviction in the minds of all the three, that Frank, of course, looked on the accident
as a piece of unalloyed good fortune--a splendid windfall in his way, unattended with any disagreeable
concomitants. This grated against his feelings, and made him conscious that he was not yet
heartless enough to be quite fit for, the society in which he found himself.

The party soon went into the dining-room; and Frank at first got a little ease, for Fanny Wyndham
seemed to be forgotten in the willing devotion which was paid to Blake's soup; the interest
of the fish, also, seemed to be absorbing; and though conversation became more general towards
the latter courses, still it was on general subjects, as long as the servants were in the room.
But, much to his annoyance, his mistress again came on the tapis [26], together with the claret.

     [FOOTNOTE 26: A tapis was a small cloth or tapestry sometimes
                   used to cover a table; hence the expression "on
                   the tapis" meant "on the table" or "under
                   consideration."]

"You and Kilcullen don't hit it off together--eh, Ballindine?" said Mat.

"We never quarrelled," answered Frank; "we never, however, were very intimate."

"I wonder at that, for you're both fond of the turf. There's a large string of his at Murphy's
now, isn't there, Dot?"

"Too many, I believe," said Blake. "If you've a mind to be a purchaser, you'll find him a very
pleasant fellow--especially if you don't object to his own prices."

"Faith I'll not trouble him," said Mat; "I've two of them already, and a couple on the turf
and a couple for the saddle are quite enough to suit me. But what the deuce made him say, so
publicly, that your match was off, Ballindine? He couldn't have heard of Wyndham's death at
the time, or I should think he was after the money himself."

"I cannot tell; he certainly had not my authority," said Frank.

"Nor the lady's either, I hope."

"You had better ask herself, Tierney; and, if she rejects me, maybe she'll take you."

"There's a speculation for you," said Blake; "you don't think yourself too old yet, I hope,
to make your fortune by marriage?--and, if you don't, I'm sure Miss Wyndham can't."

"I tell you what, Dot, I admire Miss Wyndham much, and I admire a hundred thousand pounds more.
I don't know anything I admire more than a hundred thousand pounds, except two; but, upon my
word, I wouldn't take the money and the lady together."

"Well, that's kind of him, isn't it, Frank? So, you've a chance left, yet."

"Ah! but you forget Morris," said Tierney; "and there's yourself, too. If Ballindine is not
to be the lucky man, I don't see why either of you should despair."

"Oh! as for me, I'm the devil. I've a tail, only I don't wear it, except on state occasions;
and I've horns and hoofs, only people can't see them. But I don't see why Morris should not
succeed: he's the only one of the four that doesn't own a racehorse, and that's much in his
favour. What do you say, Morris?"

"I'd have no objection," said the member; "except that I wouldn't like to stand in Lord Ballindine's
way."

"Oh! he's the soul of good-nature. You wouldn't take it ill of him, would you, Frank?"

"Not the least," said Frank, sulkily; for he didn't like the conversation, and he didn't know
how to put a stop to it.

"Perhaps you wouldn't mind giving him a line of introduction to Lord Cashel," said Mat.

"But, Morris," said Blake, "I'm afraid your politics would go against you. A Repealer would
never go down at Grey Abbey."

"Morris'll never let his politics harm him," said Tierney. "Repeal's a very good thing the
other side of the Shannon; or one might, carry it as far as Conciliation Hall, if one was hard
pressed, and near an election. Were you ever in Conciliation Hall yet, Morris?"

"No, Mat; but I'm going next Thursday. Will you go with me?"

"Faith, I will not: but I think you should go; you ought to do something for your country,
for you're a patriot. I never was a public man."

"Well, when I can do any good for my country, I'll go there. Talking of that, I saw O'Connell
in town yesterday, and I never saw him looking so well. The verdict hasn't disturbed him much.
I wonder what steps the Government will take now? They must be fairly bothered. I don't think
they dare imprison him."

"Not dare!" said Blake--'and why not? When they had courage to indict him, you need not fear
but what they'll dare to go on with a strong hand, now they have a verdict."

"I'll tell you what, Dot; if they imprison the whole set," said Mat, "and keep them in prison
for twelve months, every Catholic in Ireland will be a Repealer by the end of that time."

"And why shouldn't they all be Repealers?" said Morris. "It seems to me that it's just as natural
for us to be Repealers, as it is for you to be the contrary."

"I won't say they don't dare to put them in prison," continued Mat; "but I will say they'll
be great fools to do it. The Government have so good an excuse for not doing so: they have
such an easy path out of the hobble. There was just enough difference of opinion among the
judges--just enough irregularity in the trial, such as the omissions of the names from the
long panel--to enable them to pardon the whole set with a good grace."

"If they did," said Blake, "the whole high Tory party in this country--peers and parsons--would
be furious. They'd lose one set of supporters, and wouldn't gain another. My opinion is, they'll
lock the whole party up in the stone jug--for some time, at least."

"Why," said Tierney, "their own party could not quarrel with them for not taking an advantage
of a verdict, as to the legality of which there is so much difference of opinion even among
the judges. I don't know much about these things, myself; but, as far as I can understand,
they would have all been found guilty of high treason a few years back, and probably have been
hung or beheaded; and if they could do that now, the country would be all the quieter. But
they can't: the people will have their own way; and if they want the people to go easy, they
shouldn't put O'Connell into prison. Rob them all of the glories of martyrdom, and you'd find
you'll cut their combs and stop their crowing."

"It's not so easy to do that now, Mat," said Morris. "You'll find that the country will stick
to O'Connell, whether he's in prison or out of it;--but Peel will never dare to put him there.
They talk of the Penitentiary; but I'll tell you what, if they put him there, the people of
Dublin won't leave one stone upon another; they'd have it all down in a night."

"You forget, Morris, how near Richmond barracks are to the Penitentiary."

"No, I don't. Not that I think there'll be any row of the kind, for I'll bet a hundred guineas
they're never put in prison at all."

"Done," said Dot, and his little book was out--"put that down, Morris, and I'll initial it:
a hundred guineas, even, that O'Connell is not in prison within twelve months of this time."

"Very well: that is, that he's not put there and kept there for six months, in consequence
of the verdict just given at the State trials."

"No, my boy; that's not it. I said nothing about being kept there six months. They're going
to try for a writ of error, or what the devil they call it, before the peers. But I'll bet
you a cool hundred he is put in prison before twelve months are over, in consequence of the
verdict. If he's locked up there for one night, I win. Will you take that?"

"Well, I will," said Morris; and they both went to work at their little books.

"I was in London," said Mat, "during the greater portion of the trial--and it's astonishing
what unanimity of opinion there was at the club that the whole set would be acquitted. I heard
Howard make bet, at the Reform Club, that the only man put in prison would be the Attorney-General."

"He ought to have included the Chief Justice," said Morris. "By the bye, Mat, is that Howard
the brother of the Honourable and Riverind Augustus?"

"Upon my soul, I don't know whose brother he is. Who is the Riverind Augustus?"

"Morris wants to tell a story, Mat,' said Blake; 'don't spoil him, now."

"Indeed I don't," said the member: "I never told it to any one till I mentioned it to you the
other day. It only happened the other day, but it is worth telling."

"Out with it, Morris," said Mat, "it isn't very long, is it?--because, if it is, we'll get
Dot to give us a little whiskey and hot water first. I'm sick of the claret."

"Just as you like, Mat," and Blake rang the bell, and the hot water was brought.

"You know Savarius O'Leary," said Morris, anxious to tell his story, "eh, Tierney?"

"What, Savy, with the whiskers?" said Tierney, "to be sure I do. Who doesn't know Savy?"

"You know him, don't you, Lord Ballindine?" Morris was determined everybody should listen to him.

"Oh yes, I know him; he comes from County Mayo--his property's close to mine; that is, the
patch of rocks and cabins--which he has managed to mortgage three times over, and each time
for more than its value--which he still calls the O'Leary estate."

"Well; some time ago--that is, since London began to fill, O'Leary was seen walking down Regent
Street, with a parson. How the deuce he'd ever got hold of the parson, or the parson of him,
was never explained; but Phil Mahon saw him, and asked him who his friend in the white choker
was. 'Is it my friend in black, you mane?' says Savy, 'thin, my frind was the Honourable and
the Riverind Augustus Howard, the Dane.' 'Howard the Dane,' said Mahon, 'how the duce did any
of the Howards become Danes?' 'Ah, bother!' said Savy, 'it's not of thim Danes he is; it's
not the Danes of Shwaden I mane, at all, man; but a rural Dane of the Church of England.'"

Mat Tierney laughed heartily at this, and even Frank forgot that his dignity had been hurt,
and that he meant to be sulky; and he laughed also: the little member was delighted with his
success, and felt himself encouraged to persevere.

"Ah, Savy's a queer fellow, if you knew him," he continued, turning to Lord Ballindine, "and,
upon my soul, he's no fool. Oh, if you knew him as well--"

"Didn't you hear Ballindine say he was his next door neighbour in Mayo?" said Blake, "or, rather,
next barrack neighbour; for they dispense with doors in Mayo--eh, Frank? and their houses are
all cabins or barracks."

"Why, we certainly don't pretend to all the Apuleian luxuries of Handicap Lodge; but we are
ignorant enough to think ourselves comfortable, and swinish enough to enjoy our pitiable state."

"I beg ten thousand pardons, my dear fellow. I didn't mean to offend your nationality. Castlebar,
we must allow, is a fine provincial city--though Killala's the Mayo city, I believe; and Claremorris,
which is your own town I think, is, as all admit, a gem of Paradise: only it's a pity so many
of the houses have been unroofed lately. It adds perhaps to the picturesque effect, but it
must, I should think, take away from the comfort."

"Not a house in Claremorris belongs to me," said Lord Ballindine, again rather sulky, "or ever
did to any of my family. I would as soon own Claremorris, though, as I would Castleblakeney.
Your own town is quite as shattered-looking a place."

"That's quite true--but I have some hopes that Castleblakeney will be blotted out of the face
of creation before I come into possession."

"But I was saying about Savy O'Leary," again interposed Morris, "did you ever hear what he did?"

But Blake would not allow his guest the privilege of another story. "If you encourage Morris,"
said he, "we shall never get our whist," and with that he rose from the table and walked away
into the next room.

They played high. Morris always played high if he could, for he made money by whist. Tierney
was not a gambler by profession; but the men he lived among all played, and he, therefore,
got into the way of it, and played the game well, for he was obliged to do so in his own defence.
Blake was an adept at every thing of the kind; and though the card-table was not the place
where his light shone brightest, still he was quite at home at it.

As might be supposed, Lord Ballindine did not fare well among the three. He played with each
of them, one after the other, and lost with them all. Blake, to do him justice, did not wish
to see his friend's money go into the little member's pocket, and, once or twice, proposed
giving up; but Frank did not second the proposal, and Morris was inveterate. The consequence
was that, before the table was broken up, Lord Ballindine had lost a sum of money which he
could very ill spare, and went to bed in a very unenviable state of mind, in spite of the brilliant
prospects on which his friends congratulated him.

XVI.  BRIEN BORU

The next morning, at breakfast, when Frank was alone with Blake, he explained to him how matters
really stood at Grey Abbey. He told him how impossible he had found it to insist on seeing
Miss Wyndham so soon after her brother's death, and how disgustingly disagreeable, stiff and
repulsive the earl had been; and, by degrees, they got to talk of other things, and among them,
Frank's present pecuniary miseries.

"There can be no doubt, I suppose," said Dot, when Frank had consoled himself by anathematising
the earl for ten minutes, "as to the fact of Miss Wyndham's inheriting her brother's fortune?"

"Faith, I don't know; I never thought about her fortune if you'll believe me. I never even
remembered that her brother's death would in any way affect her in the way of money, until
after I left Grey Abbey."

"Oh, I can believe you capable of anything in the way of imprudence."

"Ah, but, Dot, to think of that pompous fool--who sits and caws in that dingy book-room of
his, with as much wise self-confidence as an antiquated raven--to think of him insinuating
that I had come there looking for Harry Wyndham's money; when, as you know, I was as ignorant
of the poor fellow's death as Lord Cashel was himself a week ago. Insolent blackguard! I would
never, willingly, speak another word to him, or put my foot inside that infernal door of his,
if it were to get ten times all Harry Wyndham's fortune."

"Then, if I understand you, you now mean to relinquish your claims to Miss Wyndham's hand."

"No; I don't believe she ever sent the message her uncle gave me. I don't see why I'm to give
her up, just because she's got this money."

"Nor I, Frank, to tell the truth; especially considering how badly you want it yourself. But
I don't think quarrelling with the uncle is the surest way to get the niece."

"But, man, he quarrelled with me."

"It takes two people to quarrel. If he quarrelled with you, do you be the less willing to come
to loggerheads with him."

"Wouldn't it be the best plan, Dot, to carry her off?"

"She wouldn't go, my boy: rope ladders and post-chaises are out of fashion."

"But if she's really fond of me--and, upon my honour, I don't believe I'm flattering myself
in thinking that she is--why the deuce shouldn't she marry me, malgré [27] Lord Cashel? She
must be her own mistress in a week or two. By heavens, I cannot stomach that fellow's arrogant
assumption of superiority."

     [FOOTNOTE 27: malgré--(French) in spite of; notwithstanding]

"It will be much more convenient for her to marry you bon gré [28] Lord Cashel, whom you may
pitch to the devil, in any way you like best, as soon as you have Fanny Wyndham at Kelly's
Court. But, till that happy time, take my advice, and submit to the cawing. Rooks and ravens
are respectable birds, just because they do look so wise. It's a great thing to look wise;
the doing so does an acknowledged fool, like Lord Cashel, very great credit."

     [FOOTNOTE 28: bon gré--(French) with the consent of]

"But what ought I to do? I can't go to the man's house when he told me expressly not to do so."

"Oh, yes, you can: not immediately, but by and by--in a month or six weeks. I'll tell you what
I should do, in your place; and remember, Frank, I'm quite in earnest now, for it's a very
different thing playing a game for twenty thousand pounds, which, to you, joined to a wife,
would have been a positive irreparable loss, and starting for five or six times that sum, which
would give you an income on which you might manage to live."

"Well, thou sapient counsellor--but, I tell you beforehand, the chances are ten to one I sha'n't
follow your plan."

"Do as you like about that: you sha'n't, at any rate, have me to blame. I would in the first
place, assure myself that Fanny inherited her brother's money."

"There's no doubt about that. Lord Cashel said as much."

"Make sure of it however. A lawyer'll do that for you, with very little trouble. Then, take
your name off the turf at once; it's worth your while to do it now. You may either do it by
a bona fide sale of the horses, or by running them in some other person's name. Then, watch
your opportunity, call at Grey Abbey, when the earl is not at home, and manage to see some
of the ladies. If you can't do that, if you can't effect an entrée, write to Miss Wyndham;
don't be too lachrymose, or supplicatory, in your style, but ask her to give you a plain answer
personally, or in her own handwriting."

"And if she declines the honour?"

"If, as you say and as I believe, she loves, or has loved you, I don't think she'll do so.
She'll submit to a little parleying, and then she'll capitulate. But it will be much better
that you should see her, if possible, without writing at all."

"I don't like the idea of calling at Grey Abbey. I wonder whether they'll go to London this
season?"

"If they do, you can go after them. The truth is simply this, Ballindine; Miss Wyndham will
follow her own fancy in the matter, in spite of her guardian; but, if you make no further advances
to her, of course she can make none to you. But I think the game is in your own hand. You haven't
the head to play it, or I should consider the stakes as good as won."

"But then, about these horses, Dot. I wish I could sell them, out and out, at once."

"You'll find it very difficult to get anything like the value for a horse that's well up for
the Derby. You see, a purchaser must make up his mind to so much outlay: there's the purchase-money,
and expense of English training, with so remote a chance of any speedy return."

"But you said you'd advise me to sell them."

"That's if you can get a purchaser:--or else run them in another name. You may run them in
my name, if you like it; but Scott must understand that I've nothing whatever to do with the
expense."

"Would you not buy them yourself, Blake?"

"No. I would not."

"Why not?"

"If I gave you anything like the value for them, the bargain would not suit me; and if I got
them for what they'd be worth to me, you'd think, and other people would say, that I'd robbed you."

Then followed a lengthened and most intricate discourse on the affairs of the stable. Frank
much wanted his friend to take his stud entirely off his hands, but this Dot resolutely refused
to do. In the course of conversation, Frank owned that the present state of his funds rendered
it almost impracticable for him to incur the expense of sending his favourite, Brien Boru,
to win laurels in England. He had lost nearly three hundred pounds the previous evening which
his account at his banker's did not enable him to pay; his Dublin agent had declined advancing
him more money at present, and his tradesmen were very importunate. In fact, he was in a scrape,
and Dot must advise him how to extricate himself from it.

"I'll tell you the truth, Ballindine," said he; "as far as I'm concerned myself, I never will
lend money, except where I see, as a matter of business, that it is a good speculation to do
so. I wouldn't do it for my father."

"Who asked you?" said Frank, turning very red, and looking very angry.

"You did not, certainly; but I thought you might, and you would have been annoyed when I refused
you; now, you have the power of being indignant, instead. However, having said so much, I'll
tell you what I think you should do, and what I will do to relieve you, as far as the horses
are concerned. Do you go down to Kelly's Court, and remain there quiet for a time. You'll be
able to borrow what money you absolutely want down there, if the Dublin fellows actually refuse;
but do with as little as you can. The horses shall run in my name for twelve months. If they
win, I will divide with you at the end of the year the amount won, after deducting their expenses.
If they lose, I will charge you with half the amount lost, including the expenses. Should you
not feel inclined, at the end of the year, to repay me this sum, I will then keep the horses,
instead, or sell them at Dycer's, if you like it better, and hand you the balance if there
be any. What do you say to this? You will be released from all trouble, annoyance, and expense,
and the cattle will, I trust, be in good hands."

"That is to say, that, for one year, you are to possess one half of whatever value the horses
may be?"

"Exactly: we shall be partners for one year."

"To make that fair," said Frank, "you ought to put into the concern three horses, as good and
as valuable as my three."

"Yes; and you ought to bring into the concern half the capital to be expended in their training;
and knowledge, experience, and skill in making use of them, equal to mine. No, Frank; you're
mistaken if you think that I can afford to give up my time, merely for the purpose of making
an arrangement to save you from trouble."

"Upon my word, Dot," answered the other, "you're about the coolest hand I ever met! Did I ask
you for your precious time, or anything else? You're always afraid that you're going to be
done. Now, you might make a distinction between me and some of your other friends, and remember
that I am not in the habit of doing anybody."

"Why, I own I don't think it very likely that I, or indeed anyone else, should suffer much
from you in that way, for your sin is not too much sharpness."

"Then why do you talk about what you can afford to do?"

"Because it's necessary. I made a proposal which you thought an unfair one. You mayn't believe
me, but it is a most positive fact, that my only object in making that proposal was, to benefit
you. You will find it difficult to get rid of your horses on any terms; and yet, with the very
great stake before you in Miss Wyndham's fortune, it would be foolish in you to think of keeping
them; and, on this account, I thought in what manner I could take them from you. If they belong
to my stables I shall consider myself bound to run them to the best advantage, and"--

"Well, well--for heaven's sake don't speechify about it."

"Stop a moment, Frank, and listen, for I must make you understand. I must make you see that
I am not taking advantage of your position, and trying to rob my own friend in my own house.
I don't care what most people say of me, for in my career I must expect people to lie of me.
I must, also, take care of myself. But I do wish you to know, that though I could not disarrange
my schemes for you, I would not take you in."

"Why, Dot--how can you go on so? I only thought I was taking a leaf out of your book, by being
careful to make the best bargain I could."

"Well, as I was saying--I would run the horses to the best advantage--especially Brien, for
the Derby: by doing so, my whole book would be upset: I should have to bet all round again--and,
very likely, not be able to get the bets I want. I could not do this without a very strong
interest in the horse. Besides, you remember that I should have to go over with him to England
myself, and that I should be obliged to be in England a great deal at a time when my own business
would require me here."

"My dear fellow," said Frank, "you're going on as though it were necessary to defend yourself.
I never accused you of anything."

"Never mind whether you did or no. You understand me now: if it will suit you, you can take
my offer, but I should be glad to know at once."

While this conversation was going on, the two young men had left the house, and sauntered out
into Blake's stud-yard. Here were his stables, where he kept such horses as were not actually
in the trainer's hands--and a large assortment of aged hunters, celebrated timber-jumpers,
brood mares, thoroughbred fillies, cock-tailed colts, and promising foals. They were immediately
joined by Blake's stud groom, who came on business intent, to request a few words with his
master; which meant that Lord Ballindine was to retreat, as it was full time for his friend
to proceed to his regular day's work. Blake's groom was a very different person in appearance,
from the sort of servant in the possession of which the fashionable owner of two or three horses
usually rejoices. He had no diminutive top boots; no loose brown breeches, buttoned low beneath
the knee; no elongated waistcoat with capacious pockets; no dandy coat with remarkably short
tail. He was a very ugly man of about fifty, named John Bottom, dressed somewhat like a seedy
gentleman; but he understood his business well, and did it; and was sufficiently wise to know
that he served his own pocket best, in the long run, by being true to his master, and by resisting
the numerous tempting offers which were made to him by denizens of the turf to play foul with
his master's horses. He was, therefore, a treasure to Blake; and he knew it, and valued himself
accordingly.

"Well, John," said his master, "I suppose I must desert Lord Ballindine again, and obey your
summons. Your few words will last nearly till dinner, I suppose?"

"Why, there is a few things, to be sure, 'll be the better for being talked over a bit, as
his lordship knows well enough. I wish we'd as crack a nag in our stables, as his lordship."

"Maybe we may, some day; one down and another come on, you know; as the butcher-boy said."

"At any rate, your horses don't want bottom" said Frank.

He--he--he! laughed John, or rather tried to do so. He had laughed at that joke a thousand
times; and, in the best of humours, he wasn't a merry man.

"Well, Frank," said Blake, "the cock has crowed; I must away. I suppose you'll ride down to
Igoe's, and see Brien: but think of what I've said, and," he added, whispering--"remember that
I will do the best I can for the animals, if you put them into my stables. They shall be made
second to nothing, and shall only and always run to win."

So, Blake and John Bottom walked off to the box stables and home paddocks.

Frank ordered his horse, and complied with his friend's suggestion, by riding down to Igoe's.
He was not in happy spirits as he went; he felt afraid that his hopes, with regard to Fanny,
would be blighted; and that, if he persevered in his suit, he would only be harassed, annoyed,
and disappointed. He did not see what steps he could take, or how he could manage to see her.
It would be impossible for him to go to Grey Abbey, after having been, as he felt, turned out
by Lord Cashel. Other things troubled him also. What should he now do with himself? It was
true that he could go down to his own house; but everyone at Kelly's Court expected him to
bring with him a bride and a fortune; and, instead of that, he would have to own that he had
been jilted, and would be reduced to the disagreeable necessity of borrowing money from his
own tenants. And then, that awful subject, money--took possession of him. What the deuce was
he to do? What a fool he had been, to be seduced on to the turf by such a man as Blake! And
then, he expressed a wish to himself that Blake had been--a long way off before he ever saw
him. There he was, steward of the Curragh, the owner of the best horse in Ireland, and absolutely
without money to enable him to carry on the game till he could properly retreat from it!

Then he was a little unfair upon his friend: he accused him of knowing his position, and wishing
to take advantage of it; and, by the time he had got to Igoe's, his mind was certainly not
in a very charitable mood towards poor Dot. He had, nevertheless, determined to accept his
offer, and to take a last look at the three Milesians.

The people about the stables always made a great fuss with Lord Ballindine, partly because
he was one of the stewards, and partly because he was going to run a crack horse for the Derby
in England; and though, generally speaking, he did not care much for personal complimentary
respect, he usually got chattered and flattered into good humour at Igoe's.

"Well, my lord," said a sort of foreman, or partner, or managing man, who usually presided
over the yard, "I think we'll be apt to get justice to Ireland on the downs this year. That
is, they'll give us nothing but what we takes from 'em by hard fighting, or running, as the
case may be."

"How's Brien looking this morning, Grady?"

"As fresh as a primrose, my lord, and as clear as crystal: he's ready, this moment, to run
through any set of three years old as could be put on the Curragh, anyway."

"I'm afraid you're putting him on too forward."

"Too forrard, is it, my lord? not a bit. He's a hoss as naturally don't pick up flesh; though
he feeds free, too. He's this moment all wind and bottom, though, as one may say, he's got
no training. He's niver been sthretched yet. Faith it's thrue I'm telling you, my lord."

"I know Scott doesn't like getting horses, early in the season, that are too fine--too much
drawn up; he thinks they lose power by it, and so they do;--it's the distance that kills them,
at the Derby. It's so hard to get a young horse to stay the distance."

"That's thrue, shure enough, my lord; and there isn't a gentleman this side the wather, anyway,
undherstands thim things betther than your lordship."

"Well, Grady, let's have a look at the young chieftain: he's all right about the lungs, anyway."

"And feet too, my lord; niver saw a set of claner feet with plates on: and legs too! If you
were to canter him down the road, I don't think he'd feel it; not that I'd like to thry, though."

"Why, he's not yet had much to try them."

"Faix, he has, my lord: didn't he win the Autumn Produce Stakes?"

"The only thing he ever ran for."

"Ah, but I tell you, as your lordship knows very well--no one betther--that it's a ticklish
thing to bring a two year old to the post, in anything like condition--with any running in
him at all, and not hurt his legs."

"But I think he's all right--eh, Grady?"

"Right?--your lordship knows he's right. I wish he may be made righter at John Scott's, that's
all. But that's unpossible."

"Of course, Grady, you think he might be trained here, as well as at the other side of the water?"

"No, I don't, my lord: quite different. I've none of thim ideas at all, and never had, thank
God. I knows what we can do, and I knows what they can do:--breed a hoss in Ireland, train
him in the North of England, and run him in the South; and he'll do your work for you, and
win your money, steady and shure."

"And why not run in the North, too?"

"They're too 'cute, my lord: they like to pick up the crumbs themselves--small blame to thim
in that matther. No; a bright Irish nag, with lots of heart, like Brien Boru, is the hoss to
stand on for the Derby; where all run fair and fair alike, the best wins;--but I won't say
but he'll be the betther for a little polishing at Johnny Scott's."

"Besides, Grady, no horse could run immediately after a sea voyage. Do you remember what a
show we made of Peter Simple at Kilrue?"

"To be shure I does, my lord: besides, they've proper gallops there, which we haven't--and
they've betther manes of measuring horses:--why, they can measure a horse to half a pound,
and tell his rale pace on a two-mile course, to a couple of seconds.--Take the sheets off,
Larry, and let his lordship run his hand over him. He's as bright as a star, isn't he?"

"I think you're getting him too fine. I'm sure Scott'll say so."

"Don't mind him, my lord. He's not like one of those English cats, with jist a dash of speed
about 'em, and nothing more--brutes that they put in training half a dozen times in as many
months. Thim animals pick up a lot of loose, flabby flesh in no time, and loses it in less;
and, in course, av' they gets a sweat too much, there's nothin left in 'em; not a hapoth. Brien's
a different guess sort of animal from that."

"Were you going to have him out, Grady?"

"Why, we was not--that is, only just for walking exercise, with his sheets on: but a canter
down the half mile slope, and up again by the bushes won't go agin him."

"Well, saddle him then, and let Pat get up."

"Yes, my lord"; and Brien was saddled by the two men together, with much care and ceremony;
and Pat was put up--"and now, Pat," continued Grady, "keep him well in hand down the slope--don't
let him out at all at all, till you come to the turn: when you're fairly round the corner,
just shake your reins the laste in life, and when you're halfway up the rise, when the lad
begins to snort a bit, let him just see the end of the switch--just raise it till it catches
his eye; and av' he don't show that he's disposed for running, I'm mistaken. We'll step across
to the bushes, my lord, and see him come round."

Lord Ballindine and the managing man walked across to the bushes accordingly, and Pat did exactly
as he was desired. It was a pretty thing to see the beautiful young animal, with his sleek
brown coat shining like a lady's curls, arching his neck, and throwing down his head, in his
impatience to start. He was the very picture of health and symmetry; when he flung up his head
you'd think the blood was running from his nose, his nostrils were so ruddy bright. He cantered
off in great impatience, and fretted and fumed because the little fellow on his back would
be the master, and not let him have his play--down the slope, and round the corner by the trees.
It was beautiful to watch him, his motions were so easy, so graceful. At the turn he answered
to the boy's encouragement, and mended his pace, till again he felt the bridle, and then, as
the jock barely moved his right arm, he bounded up the rising ground, past the spot where Lord
Ballindine and the trainer were standing, and shot away till he was beyond the place where
he knew his gallop ordinarily ended. As Grady said, he hadn't yet been stretched; he had never
yet tried his own pace, and he had that look so beautiful in a horse when running, of working
at his ease, and much within his power.

"He's a beautiful creature," said Lord Ballindine, as he mournfully reflected that he was about
to give up to Dot Blake half the possession of his favourite, and the whole of the nominal
title. It was such a pity he should be so hampered; the mere éclat of possessing such a horse
was so great a pleasure; "He is a fine creature," said he, "and, I am sure, will do well."

"Your lordship may say that: he'll go precious nigh to astonish the Saxons, I think. I suppose
the pick-up at the Derby'll be nigh four thousand this year."

"I suppose it will--something like that."

"Well; I would like a nag out of our stables to do the trick on the downs, and av' we does
it iver, it'll be now. Mr Igoe's standing a deal of cash on him. I wonder is Mr Blake standing
much on him, my lord?"

"You'd be precious deep, Grady, if you could find what he's doing in that way."

"That's thrue for you, my lord; but av' he, or your lordship, wants to get more on, now's the
time. I'll lay twenty thousand pounds this moment, that afther he's been a fortnight at Johnny
Scott's the odds agin him won't be more than ten to one, from that day till the morning he
comes out on the downs."

"I dare say not."

"I wondher who your lordship'll put up?"

"That must depend on Scott, and what sort of a string he has running. He's nothing, as yet,
high in the betting, except Hardicanute."

"Nothing, my lord; and, take my word for it, that horse is ownly jist run up for the sake of
the betting; that's not his nathural position. Well, Pat, you may take the saddle off. Will
your lordship see the mare out to-day?"

"Not to-day, Grady. Let's see, what's the day she runs?"

"The fifteenth of May, my lord. I'm afraid Mr Watts' Patriot 'll be too much for her; that's
av' he'll run kind; but he don't do that always. Well, good morning to your lordship."

"Good morning, Grady;" and Frank rode back towards Handicap Lodge.

He had a great contest with himself on his road home. He had hated the horses two days since,
when he was at Grey Abbey, and had hated himself, for having become their possessor; and now
he couldn't bear the thought of parting with them. To be steward of the Curragh--to own the
best horse of the year--and to win the Derby, were very pleasant things in themselves; and
for what was he going to give over all this glory, pleasure and profit, to another? To please
a girl who had rejected him, even jilted him, and to appease an old earl who had already turned
him out of his house! No, he wouldn't do it. By the time that he was half a mile from Igoe's
stables he had determined that, as the girl was gone it would be a pity to throw the horses
after her; he would finish this year on the turf; and then, if Fanny Wyndham was still her
own mistress after Christmas, he would again ask her her mind. "If she's a girl of spirit,"
he said to himself--"and nobody knows better than I do that she is, she won't like me the worse
for having shown that I'm not to be led by the nose by a pompous old fool like Lord Cashel,"
and he rode on, fortifying himself in this resolution, for the second half mile. "But what
the deuce should he do about money?" There was only one more half mile before he was again
at Handicap Lodge.--Guinness's people had his title-deeds, and he knew he had twelve hundred
a year after paying the interest of the old incumbrances. They hadn't advanced him much since
he came of age; certainly not above five thousand pounds; and it surely was very hard he could
not get five or six hundred pounds when he wanted it so much; it was very hard that he shouldn't
be able to do what he liked with his own, like the Duke of Newcastle. However, the money must
be had: he must pay Blake and Tierney the balance of what they had won at whist, and the horse
couldn't go over the water till the wind was raised. If he was driven very hard he might get
something from Martin Kelly. These unpleasant cogitations brought him over the third half mile,
and he rode through the gate of Handicap Lodge in a desperate state of indecision.

"I'll tell you what I'll do, Dot," he said, when he met his friend coming in from his morning's
work; "and I'm deuced sorry to do it, for I shall be giving you the best horse of his year,
and something tells me he'll win the Derby."

"I suppose 'something' means old Jack Igoe, or that blackguard Grady," said Dot. "But as to
his winning, that's as it may be. You know the chances are sixteen to one he won't."

"Upon my honour I don't think they are."

"Will you take twelve to one?"

"Ah! youk now, Dot, I'm not now wanting to bet on the horse with you. I was only saying that
I've a kind of inward conviction that he will win."

"My dear Frank," said the other, "if men selling horses could also sell their inward convictions
with them, what a lot of articles of that description there would be in the market! But what
were you going to say you'd do?"

"I'll tell you what I'll do: I'll agree to your terms providing you'll pay half the expenses
of the horses since the last race each of them ran. You must see that would be only fair, supposing
the horses belonged to you, equally with me, ever since that time."

"It would be quite fair, no doubt, if I agreed to it: it would be quite fair also if I agreed
to give you five hundred pounds; but I will do neither one nor the other."

"But look here, Dot--Brien ran for the Autumn Produce Stakes last October, and won them: since
then he has done nothing to reimburse me for his expense, nor yet has anything been taken out
of him by running. Surely, if you are to have half the profits, you should at any rate pay
half the expenses?"

"That's very well put, Frank; and if you and I stood upon equal ground, with an arbiter between
us by whose decision we were bound to abide, and to whom the settlement of the question was
entrusted, your arguments would, no doubt, be successful, but--"

"Well that's the fair way of looking at it."

"But, as I was going to say, that's not the case. We are neither of us bound to take any one's
decision; and, therefore, any terms which either of us chooses to accept must be fair. Now
I have told you my terms--the lowest price, if you like to call it so,--at which I will give
your horses the benefit of my experience, and save you from their immediate pecuniary pressure;
and I will neither take any other terms, nor will I press these on you."

"Why, Blake, I'd sooner deal with all the Jews of Israel--"

"Stop, Frank: one word of abuse, and I'll wash my hands of the matter altogether."

"Wash away then, I'll keep the horses, though I have to sell my hunters and the plate at Kelly's
Court into the bargain."

"I was going to add--only your energy's far too great to allow of a slow steady man like me
finishing his sentence--I was going to say that, if you're pressed for money as you say, and
if it will be any accommodation, I will let you have two hundred and fifty pounds at five per
cent. on the security of the horses; that is, that you will be charged with that amount, and
the interest, in the final closing of the account at the end of the year, before the horses
are restored to you."

Had an uninterested observer been standing by he might have seen with half an eye that Blake's
coolness was put on, and that his indifference to the bargain was assumed. This offer of the
loan was a second bid, when he found the first was likely to be rejected: it was made, too,
at the time that he was positively declaring that he would make none but the first offer. Poor
Frank!--he was utterly unable to cope with his friend at the weapons with which they were playing,
and he was consequently most egregiously plundered. But it was in an affair of horse-flesh,
and the sporting world, when it learned the terms on which the horses were transferred from
Lord Ballindine's name to that of Mr Blake, had not a word of censure to utter against the
latter. He was pronounced to be very wide awake, and decidedly at the top of his profession;
and Lord Ballindine was spoken of, for a week, with considerable pity and contempt.

When Blake mentioned the loan Frank got up, and stood with his back to the fire; then bit his
lips, and walked twice up and down the room, with his hands in his pockets, and then he paused,
looked out of the window, and attempted to whistle: then he threw himself into an armchair,
poked out both his legs as far as he could, ran his fingers through his hair, and set to work
hard to make up his mind. But it was no good; in about five minutes he found he could not do
it; so he took out his purse, and, extracting half-a-crown, threw it up to the ceiling, saying,

"Well, Dot--head or harp? If you're right, you have them."

"Harp," cried Dot.

They both examined the coin. "They're yours," said Frank, with much solemnity; "and now you've
got the best horse--yes, I believe the very best horse alive, for nothing."

"Only half of him, Frank."

"Well," said Frank; "it's done now, I suppose."

"Oh, of course it is," said Dot: "I'll draw out the agreement, and give you a cheque for the
money to-night."

And so he did; and Frank wrote a letter to Igoe, authorizing him to hand over the horses to
Mr Blake's groom, stating that he had sold them--for so ran his agreement with Dot--and desiring
that his bill for training, &c., might be forthwith forwarded to Kelly's Court. Poor Frank!
he was ashamed to go to take a last look at his dear favourites, and tell his own trainer that
he had sold his own horses.

The next morning saw him, with his servant, on the Ballinasloe coach, travelling towards Kelly's
Court; and, also, saw Brien Boru, Granuell, and Finn M'Goul led across the downs, from Igoe's
stables to Handicap Lodge.

The handsome sheets, hoods, and rollers, in which they had hitherto appeared, and on which
the initial B was alone conspicuous, were carefully folded up, and they were henceforth seen
in plainer, but as serviceable apparel, labelled W. B.

"Will you give fourteen to one against Brien Boru?" said Viscount Avoca to Lord Tathenham Corner,
about ten days after this, at Tattersall's.

"I will," said Lord Tathenham.

"In hundreds?" said the sharp Irishman.

"Very well," said Lord Tathenham; and the bet was booked.

"You didn't know, I suppose," said the successful viscount, "that Dot Blake has bought Brien Boru?"

"And who the devil's Dot Blake?" said Lord Tathenham.

"Oh! you'll know before May's over," said the viscount.

XVII.  MARTIN KELLY'S COURTSHIP

It will be remembered that the Tuam attorney, Daly, dined with Barry Lynch, at Dunmore House,
on the same evening that Martin Kelly reached home after his Dublin excursion; and that, on
that occasion, a good deal of interesting conversation took place after dinner. Barry, however,
was hardly amenable to reason at that social hour, and it was not till the following morning
that he became thoroughly convinced that it would be perfectly impossible for him to make his
sister out a lunatic to the satisfaction of the Chancellor.

He then agreed to abandon the idea, and, in lieu of it, to indict, or at any rate to threaten
to indict, the widow Kelly and her son for a conspiracy, and an attempt to inveigle his sister
Anty into a disgraceful marriage, with the object of swindling her out of her property.

"I'll see Moylan, Mr Lynch," said Daly; "and if I can talk him over, I think we might succeed
in frightening the whole set of them, so far as to prevent the marriage. Moylan must know that
if your sister was to marry young Kelly, there'd be an end to his agency; but we must promise
him something, Mr Lynch."

"Yes; I suppose we must pay him, before we get anything out of him."

"No, not before--but he must understand that he will get something, if he makes himself useful.
You must let me explain to him that if the marriage is prevented, you will make no objection
to his continuing to act as Miss Lynch's agent; and I might hint the possibility of his receiving
the rents on the whole property."

"Hint what you like, Daly, but don't tie me down to the infernal ruffian. I suppose we can
throw him overboard afterwards, can't we?"

"Why, not altogether, Mr Lynch. If I make him a definite promise, I shall expect you to keep
to it."

"Confound him!--but tell me, Daly; what is it he's to do?--and what is it we're to do?"

"Why, Mr Lynch, it's more than probable, I think, that this plan of Martin Kelly's marrying
your sisther may have been talked over between the ould woman, Moylan, and the young man; and
if so, that's something like a conspiracy. If I could worm that out of him, I think I'd manage
to frighten them."

"And what the deuce had I better do? You see, there was a bit of a row between us. That is,
Anty got frightened when I spoke to her of this rascal, and then she left the house. Couldn't
you make her understand that she'd be all right if she'd come to the house again?"

While Barry Lynch had been sleeping off the effects of the punch, Daly had been inquiring into
the circumstances under which Anty had left the house, and he had pretty nearly learned the
truth; he knew, therefore, how much belief to give to his client's representation.

"I don't think," said he, "that your sister will be likely to come back at present; she will
probably find herself quieter and easier at the inn. You see, she has been used to a quiet life."

"But, if she remains there, she can marry that young ruffian any moment she takes it into her
head to do so. There's always some rogue of a priest ready to do a job of that sort."

"Exactly so, Mr Lynch. Of course your sister can marry whom she pleases, and when she pleases,
and neither you nor any one else can prevent her; but still--"

"Then what the devil's the use of my paying you to come here and tell me that?"

"That's your affair: I didn't come without being sent for. But I was going to tell you that,
though we can't prevent her from marrying if she pleases, we may make her afraid to do so.
You had better write her a kind, affectionate note, regretting what has taken place between
you, and promising to give her no molestation of any kind, if she will return to her own house,--and
keep a copy of this letter. Then I will see Moylan; and, if I can do anything with him, it
will be necessary that you should also see him. You could come over to Tuam, and meet him in
my office; and then I will try and force an entrance into the widow's castle, and, if possible,
see your sister, and humbug the ould woman into a belief that she has laid herself open to
criminal indictment. We might even go so far as to have notices served on them; but, if they
snap their fingers at us, we can do nothing further. My advice in that case would be, that
you should make the best terms in your power with Martin Kelly."

"And let the whole thing go! I'd sooner--Why, Daly, I believe you're as bad as Blake! You're
afraid of these huxtering thieves!"

"If you go on in that way, Mr Lynch, you'll get no professional gentleman to act with you.
I give you my best advice; it you don't like it, you needn't follow it; but you won't get a
solicitor in Connaught to do better for you than what I'm proposing."

"Confusion!" muttered Barry, and he struck the hot turf in the grate a desperate blow with
the tongs which he had in his hands, and sent the sparks and bits of fire flying about the hearth.

"The truth is, you see, your sister's in her full senses; there's the divil a doubt of that;
the money's her own, and she can marry whom she pleases. All that we can do is to try and make
the Kellys think they have got into a scrape."

"But this letter--What on earth am I to say to her?"

"I'll just put down what I would say, were I you; and if you like you can copy it." Daly then
wrote the following letter--

   My Dear Anty,

   Before taking other steps, which could not fail of being very
   disagreeable to you and to others, I wish to point out to you how
   injudiciously you are acting in leaving your own house; and to try
   to induce you to do that which will be most beneficial to yourself,
   and most conducive to your happiness and respectability. If you
   will return to Dunmore House, I most solemnly promise to leave you
   unmolested. I much regret that my violence on Thursday should have
   annoyed you, but I can assure you it was attributable merely to my
   anxiety on your account. Nothing, however, shall induce me to repeat
   it. But you must be aware that a little inn is not a fit place for
   you to be stopping at; and I am obliged to tell you that I have
   conclusive evidence of a conspiracy having been formed, by the
   family with whom you are staying, to get possession of your money;
   and that this conspiracy was entered into very shortly after the
   contents of my father's will had been made public. I must have
   this fact proved at the Assizes, and the disreputable parties to it
   punished, unless you will consent, at any rate for a time, to put
   yourself under the protection of your brother.

   In the meantime pray believe me, dear Anty, in spite of
   appearances,

   Your affectionate brother,

   BARRY LYNCH.

It was then agreed that this letter should be copied and signed by Barry, and delivered by
Terry on the following morning, which was Sunday. Daly then returned to Tuam, with no warm
admiration for his client.

In the meantime the excitement at the inn, arising from Anty's arrival and Martin's return,
was gradually subsiding. These two important events, both happening on the same day, sadly
upset the domestic economy of Mrs Kelly's establishment. Sally had indulged in tea almost to
stupefaction, and Kattie's elfin locks became more than ordinarily disordered. On the following
morning, however, things seemed to fall a little more into their places: the widow was, as
usual, behind her counter; and if her girls did not give her as much assistance as she desired
of them, and as much as was usual with them, they were perhaps excusable, for they could not
well leave their new guest alone on the day after her coming to them.

Martin went out early to Toneroe; doubtless the necessary labours of the incipient spring required
him at the farm but I believe that if his motives were analysed, he hardly felt himself up
to a tête-à-tête with his mistress, before he had enjoyed a cool day's consideration of the
extraordinary circumstances which had brought her into the inn as his mother's guest. He, moreover,
wished to have a little undisturbed conversation with Meg, and to learn from her how Anty might
be inclined towards him just at present. So Martin spent his morning among his lambs and his
ploughs; and was walking home, towards dusk, tired enough, when he met Barry Lynch, on horseback,
that hero having come out, as usual, for his solitary ride, to indulge in useless dreams of
the happy times he would have, were his sister only removed from her tribulations in this world.
Though Martin had never been on friendly terms with his more ambitious neighbour, there had
never, up to this time, been any quarrel between them, and he therefore just muttered "Good
morning, Mr Lynch," as he passed him on the road.

Barry said nothing, and did not appear to see him as he passed; but some idea struck him as
soon as he had passed, and he pulled in his horse and hallooed out "Kelly!"--and, as Martin
stopped, he added, "Come here a moment--I want to speak to you."

"Well, Mr Barry, what is it?" said the other, returning. Lynch paused, and evidently did not
know whether to speak or let it alone. At last he said, "Never mind--I'll get somebody else
to say what I was going to say. But you'd better look sharp what you're about, my lad, or you'll
find yourself in a scrape that you don't dream of."

"And is that all you called me back for?" said Martin.

"That's all I mean to say to you at present."

"Well then, Mr Lynch, I must say you're very good, and I'm shure I will look sharp enough.
But, to my thinking, d'you know, you want looking afther yourself a precious dale more than
I do," and then he turned to proceed homewards, but said, as he was going--"Have you any message
for your sisther, Mr Lynch?"

"By--! my young man, I'll make you pay for what you're doing," answered Barry.

"I know you'll be glad to hear she's pretty well: she's coming round from the thratement she
got the other night; though, by all accounts, it's a wondher she's alive this moment to tell
of it."

Barry did not attempt any further reply, but rode on, sorry enough that he had commenced the
conversation. Martin got home in time for a snug tea with Anty and his sisters, and succeeded
in prevailing on the three to take each a glass of punch; and, before Anty went to bed he began
to find himself more at his ease with her, and able to call her by her Christian name without
any disagreeable emotion. He certainly had a most able coadjutor in Meg. She made room on the
sofa for him between herself and his mistress, and then contrived that the room should be barely
sufficient, so that Anty was rather closely hemmed up in one corner: moreover, she made Anty
give her opinion as to Martin's looks after his metropolitan excursion, and tried hard to make
Martin pay some compliments to Anty's appearance. But in this she failed, although she gave
him numerous opportunities.

However, they passed the evening very comfortably,--quite sufficiently so to make Anty feel
that the kindly, humble friendship of the inn was infinitely preferable to the miserable grandeur
of Dunmore House; and it is probable that all the lovemaking in the world would not have operated
so strongly in Martin's favour as this feeling. Meg, however, was not satisfied, for as soon
as she had seen Jane and Anty into the bed-room she returned to her brother, and lectured him
as to his lukewarm manifestations of affection.

"Martin," said she, returning into the little sitting-room, and carefully shutting the door
after her, "you're the biggest bosthoon of a gandher I ever see, to be losing your opportunities
with Anty this way! I b'lieve it's waiting you are for herself to come forward to you. Do you
think a young woman don't expect something more from a lover than jist for you to sit by her,
and go on all as one as though she was one of your own sisthers? Av' once she gets out of this
before the priest has made one of the two of you, mind, I tell you, it'll be all up with you.
I wondher, Martin, you haven't got more pluck in you!"

"Oh! bother, Meg. You're thinking of nothing but kissing and slobbhering.--Anty's not the same
as you and Jane, and doesn't be all agog for such nonsense!"

"I tell you, Martin, Anty's a woman; and, take my word for it, what another girl likes won't
come amiss to her. Besides, why don't you spake to her?"

"Spake?--why, what would you have me spake?"

"Well, Martin, you're a fool. Have you, or have you not, made up your mind to marry Anty?"

"To be shure I will, av' she'll have me."

"And do you expect her to have you without asking?"

"Shure, you know, didn't I ask her often enough?"

"Ah, but you must do more than jist ask her that way. She'll never make up her mind to go before
the priest, unless you say something sthronger to her. Jist tell her, plump out, you're ready
and willing, and get the thing done before Lent. What's to hindher you?--shure, you know,"
she added, in a whisper, "you'll not get sich a fortune as Anty's in your way every day. Spake
out, man, and don't be afraid of her: take my word she won't like you a bit the worse for a
few kisses."

Martin promised to comply with his sister's advice, and to sound Anty touching their marriage
on the following morning after mass.

On the Sunday morning, at breakfast, the widow proposed to Anty that she should go to mass
with herself and her daughters; but Anty trembled so violently at the idea of showing herself
in public, after her escape from Dunmore House, that the widow did not press her to do so,
although afterwards she expressed her disapprobation of Anty's conduct to her own girls.

"I don't see what she has to be afeard of," said she, "in going to get mass from her own clergyman
in her own chapel. She don't think, I suppose, that Barry Lynch'd dare come in there to pull
her out, before the blessed altar, glory be to God."

"Ah but, mother, you know, she has been so frighted."

"Frighted, indeed! She'll get over these tantrums, I hope, before Sunday next, or I know where
I'll wish her again."

So Anty was left at home, and the rest of the family went to mass. When the women returned,
Meg manoeuvred greatly, and, in fine, successfully, that no one should enter the little parlour
to interrupt the wooing she intended should take place there. She had no difficulty with Jane,
for she told her what her plans were; and though her less energetic sister did not quite agree
in the wisdom of her designs, and pronounced an opinion that it would be "better to let things
settle down a bit," still she did not presume to run counter to Meg's views; but Meg had some
work to dispose of her mother. It would not have answered at all, as Meg had very well learned
herself, to caution her mother not to interrupt Martin in his love-making, for the widow had
no charity for such follies. She certainly expected her daughters to get married, and wished
them to be well and speedily settled; but she watched anything like a flirtation on their part
as closely as a cat does a mouse. If any young man were in the house, she'd listen to the fall
of his footsteps with the utmost care; and when she had reason to fear that there was anything
like a lengthened tête-à-tête upstairs, she would steal on the pair, if possible, unawares,
and interrupt, without the least reserve, any billing and cooing which might be going on, sending
the delinquent daughter to her work, and giving a glower at the swain, which she expected might
be sufficient to deter him from similar offences for some little time.

The girls, consequently, were taught to be on the alert--to steal about on tiptoe, to elude
their mother's watchful ear, to have recourse to a thousand little methods of deceiving her,
and to baffle her with her own weapons. The mother, if she suspected that any prohibited frolic
was likely to be carried on, at a late hour, would tell her daughters that she was going to
bed, and would shut herself up for a couple of hours in her bed-room, and then steal out eavesdropping,
peeping through key-holes and listening at door-handles; and the daughters, knowing their mother's
practice, would not come forth till the listening and peeping had been completed, and till
they had ascertained, by some infallible means, that the old woman was between the sheets.

Each party knew the tricks of the other; and yet, taking it all in all, the widow got on very
well with her children, and everybody said what a good mother she had been: she was accustomed
to use deceit, and was therefore not disgusted by it in others. Whether the system of domestic
manners which I have described is one likely to induce to sound restraint and good morals is
a question which I will leave to be discussed by writers on educational points.

However Meg managed it, she did contrive that her mother should not go near the little parlour
this Sunday morning, and Anty was left alone, to receive her lover's visit. I regret to say
that he was long in paying it. He loitered about the chapel gates before he came home; and
seemed more than usually willing to talk to anyone about anything. At last, however, just as
Meg was getting furious, he entered the inn.

"Why, Martin, you born ideot--av' she ain't waiting for you this hour and more!"

"Thim that's long waited for is always welcome when they do come," replied Martin.

"Well afther all I've done for you! Are you going in now?--cause, av' you don't, I'll go and
tell her not to be tasing herself about you. I'll neither be art or part in any such schaming."

"Schaming, is it, Meg? Faith, it'd be a clever fellow'd beat you at that," and, without waiting
for his sister's sharp reply, he walked into the little room where Anty was sitting.

"So, Anty, you wouldn't come to mass?" he began.

"Maybe I'll go next Sunday," said she.

"It's a long time since you missed mass before, I'm thinking."

"Not since the Sunday afther father's death."

"It's little you were thinking then how soon you'd be stopping down here with us at the inn."

"That's thrue for you, Martin, God knows."

At this point of the conversation Martin stuck fast: he did not know Rosalind's recipe [29]
for the difficulty a man feels, when he finds himself gravelled for conversation with his mistress;
so he merely scratched his head, and thought hard to find what he'd say next. I doubt whether
the conviction, which was then strong on his mind, that Meg was listening at the keyhole to
every word that passed, at all assisted him in the operation. At last, some Muse came to his
aid, and he made out another sentence.

     [FOOTNOTE 29: Rosalind's recipe--In As You Like It, Act III,
                   Sc. ii, Rosalind, disguised as a young man,
                   instructs Orlando to practice his wooing on her.]

"It was very odd my finding you down here, all ready before me, wasn't it?"

"'Deed it was: your mother was a very good woman to me that morning, anyhow."

"And tell me now, Anty, do you like the inn?"

"'Deed I do--but it's quare, like."

"How quare?"

"Why, having Meg and Jane here: I wasn't ever used to anyone to talk to, only just the servants."

"You'll have plenty always to talk to now--eh, Anty?" and Martin tried a sweet look at his
lady love.

"I'm shure I don't know. Av' I'm only left quiet, that's what I most care about."

"But, Anty, tell me--you don't want always to be what you call quiet?"

"Oh! but I do--why not?"

"But you don't mane, Anty, that you wouldn't like to have some kind of work to do--some occupation,
like?"

"Why, I wouldn't like to be idle; but a person needn't be idle because they're quiet."

"And that's thrue, Anty." And Martin broke down again.

"There'd be a great crowd in chapel, I suppose?" said Anty.

"There was a great crowd."

"And what was father Geoghegan preaching about?"

"Well, then, I didn't mind. To tell the truth, Anty, I came out most as soon as the preaching
began; only I know he told the boys to pray that the liberathor might be got out of his throubles;
and so they should--not that there's much to throuble him, as far as the verdict's concerned."

"Isn't there then? I thought they made him out guilty?"

"So they did, the false ruffians: but what harum 'll that do? they daren't touch a hair of
his head!"

Politics, however, are not a favourable introduction to love-making: so Martin felt, and again
gave up the subject, in the hopes that he might find something better. "What a fool the man
is!" thought Meg to herself, at the door--"if I had a lover went on like that, wouldn't I pull
his ears!"

Martin got up--walked across the room--looked out of the little window--felt very much ashamed
of himself, and, returning, sat himself down on the sofa.

"Anty," he said, at last, blushing nearly brown as he spoke; "Were you thinking of what I was
spaking to you about before I went to Dublin?"

Anty blushed also, now. "About what?" she said.

"Why, just about you and me making a match of it. Come, Anty, dear, what's the good of losing
time? I've been thinking of little else; and, after what's been between us, you must have thought
the matther over too, though you do let on to be so innocent. Come, Anty, now that you and
mother's so thick, there can be nothing against it."

"But indeed there is, Martin, a great dale against it--though I'm sure it's good of you to
be thinking of me. There's so much against it, I think we had betther be of one mind, and give
it over at once."

"And what's to hinder us marrying, Anty, av' yourself is plazed? Av' you and I, and mother
are plazed, sorrow a one that I know of has a word to say in the matther."

"But Barry don't like it!"

"And, afther all, are you going to wait for what Barry likes? You didn't wait for what was
plazing to Barry Lynch when you came down here; nor yet did mother when she went up and fetched
you down at five in the morning, dreading he'd murdher you outright. And it was thrue for her,
for he would, av' he was let, the brute. And are you going to wait for what he likes?"

"Whatever he's done, he's my brother; and there's only the two of us."

"But it's not that, Anty--don't you know it's not that? Isn't it because you're afraid of him?
because he threatened and frightened you? And what on 'arth could he do to harum you av' you
was the wife of--of a man who'd, anyway, not let Barry Lynch, or anyone else, come between
you and your comfort and aise?"

"But you don't know how wretched I've been since he spoke to me about--about getting myself
married: you don't know what I've suffered; and I've a feeling that good would never come of it."

"And, afther all, are you going to tell me now, that I may jist go my own way? Is that to be
your answer, and all I'm to get from you?"

"Don't be angry with me, Martin. I'm maning to do everything for the best."

"Maning?--what's the good of maning? Anyways, Anty, let me have an answer, for I'll not be
making a fool of myself any longer. Somehow, all the boys here, every sowl in Dunmore, has
it that you and I is to be married--and now, afther promising me as you did--"

"Oh, I never promised, Martin."

"It was all one as a promise--and now I'm to be thrown overboard. And why?--because Barry Lynch
got dhrunk, and frightened you. Av' I'd seen the ruffian striking you, I think I'd 've been
near putting it beyond him to strike another woman iver again."

"Glory be to God that you wasn't near him that night," said Anty, crossing herself. "It was
bad enough, but av' the two of you should ever be set fighting along of me, it would kill me
outright."

"But who's talking of fighting, Anty, dear?" and Martin drew a little nearer to her--"who's
talking of fighting? I never wish to spake another word to Barry the longest day that ever
comes. Av' he'll get out of my way, I'll go bail he'll not find me in his."

"But he wouldn't get out of your way, nor get out of mine, av' you and I got married: he'd
be in our way, and we'd be in his, and nothing could iver come of it but sorrow and misery,
and maybe bloodshed."

"Them's all a woman's fears. Av' you an I were once spliced by the priest, God bless him, Barry
wouldn't trouble Dunmore long afther."

"That's another rason, too. Why should I be dhriving him out of his own house? you know he's
a right to the house, as well as I."

"Who's talking of dhriving him out? Faith, he'd be welcome to stay there long enough for me!
He'd go, fast enough, without dhriving, though; you can't say the counthry wouldn't have a
good riddhance of him. But never mind that, Anty: it wasn't about Barry, one way or the other,
I was thinking, when I first asked you to have me; nor it wasn't about myself altogether, as
I could let you know; though, in course, I'm not saying but that myself's as dear to myself
as another, an' why not? But to tell the blessed truth, I was thinking av' you too; and that
you'd be happier and asier, let alone betther an' more respecthable, as an honest man's wife,
as I'd make you, than being mewed up there in dread of your life, never daring to open your
mouth to a Christian, for fear of your own brother, who niver did, nor niver will lift a hand
to sarve you, though he wasn't backward to lift it to sthrike you, woman and sisther though
you were. Come, Anty, darlin," he added, after a pause, during which he managed to get his
arm behind her back, though he couldn't be said to have it fairly round her waist--"Get quit
of all these quandaries, and say at once, like an honest girl, you'll do what I'm asking--and
what no living man can hindher you from or say against it.--Or else jist fairly say you won't,
and I'll have done with it."

Anty sat silent, for she didn't like to say she wouldn't; and she thought of her brother's
threats, and was afraid to say she would. Martin advanced a little in his proceedings, however,
and now succeeded in getting his arm round her waist--and, having done so, he wasn't slow in
letting her feel its pressure. She made an attempt, with her hand, to disengage herself--certainly
not a successful, and, probably, not a very energetic attempt, when the widow's step was heard
on the stairs. Martin retreated from his position on the sofa, and Meg from hers outside the
door, and Mrs Kelly entered the room, with Barry's letter in her hand, Meg following, to ascertain
the cause of the unfortunate interruption.

XVIII.  AN ATTORNEY'S OFFICE IN CONNAUGHT

"Anty, here's a letter for ye," began the widow. "Terry's brought it down from the house, and
says it's from Misther Barry. I b'lieve he was in the right not to bring it hisself."

"A letther for me, Mrs Kelly? what can he be writing about? I don't just know whether I ought
to open it or no;" and Anty trembled, as she turned the epistle over and over again in her hands.

"What for would you not open it? The letther can't hurt you, girl, whatever the writher might do."

Thus encouraged, Anty broke the seal, and made herself acquainted with the contents of the
letter which Daly had dictated; but she then found that her difficulties had only just commenced.
Was she to send an answer, and if so, what answer? And if she sent none, what notice ought
she to take of it? The matter was one evidently too weighty to be settled by her own judgment,
so she handed the letter to be read, first by the widow, and then by Martin, and lastly by
the two girls, who, by this time, were both in the room.

"Well, the dethermined impudence of that blackguard!" exclaimed Mrs Kelly. "Conspiracy!--av'
that don't bang Banagher! What does the man mean by 'conspiracy,' eh, Martin?"

"Faith, you must ask himself that, mother; and then it's ten to one he can't tell you."

"I suppose," said Meg, "he wants to say that we're all schaming to rob Anty of her money--only
he daren't, for the life of him, spake it out straight forrard."

"Or, maybe," suggested Jane, "he wants to bring something agen us like this affair of O'Connell's--only
he'll find, down here, that he an't got Dublin soft goods to deal wid."

Then followed a consultation, as to the proper steps to be taken in the matter.

The widow advised that father Geoghegan should be sent for to indite such a reply as a Christian
ill-used woman should send to so base a letter. Meg, who was very hot on the subject, and who
had read of some such proceeding in a novel, was for putting up in a blank envelope the letter
itself, and returning it to Barry by the hands of Jack, the ostler; at the same time, she declared
that "No surrender" should be her motto. Jane was of opinion that "Miss Anastasia Lynch's compliments
to Mr Barry Lynch, and she didn't find herself strong enough to move to Dunmore House at present,"
would answer all purposes, and be, on the whole, the safest course. While Martin pronounced
that "if Anty would be led by him, she'd just pitch the letter behind the fire an' take no
notice of it, good, bad, or indifferent."

None of these plans pleased Anty, for, as she remarked, "After all, Barry was her brother,
and blood was thickher than wather." So, after much consultation, pen, ink, and paper were
procured, and the following letter was concocted between them, all the soft bits having been
great stumbling-blocks, in which, however, Anty's quiet perseverance carried the point, in
opposition to the wishes of all the Kellys. The words put in brackets were those peculiarly
objected to.

   Dunmore Inn. February, 1844.

   DEAR BARRY,

   I (am very sorry I) can't come back to the house, at any rate just
   at present. I am not very sthrong in health, and there are kind
   female friends about me here, which you know there couldn't be up at
   the house.

Anty herself, in the original draft inserted "ladies," but the widow's good sense repudiated
the term, and insisted on the word "females": Jane suggested that "females" did not sound quite
respectful alone, and Martin thought that Anty might call them "female friends," which was
consequently done.

   --Besides, there are reasons why I'm quieter here, till things are a
   little more settled. I will forgive (and forget) all that happened
   up at the house between us--

"Why, you can't forget it," said Meg. "Oh, I could, av' he was kind to me. I'd forget it all
in a week av' he was kind to me," answered Anty--

   (and I will do nothing particular without first letting you know).

They were all loud against this paragraph, but they could not carry their point.

   I must tell you, dear Barry, that you are very much mistaken about
   the people of this house: they are dear, kind friends to me, and,
   wherever I am, I must love them to the last day of my life--but
   indeed I am, and hope you believe so,

   Your affectionate sister,

   ANASTASIA LYNCH.

When the last paragraph was read over Anty's shoulder, Meg declared she was a dear, dear creature:
Jane gave her a big kiss, and began crying; even the widow put the corner of her apron to her
eye, and Martin, trying to look manly and unconcerned, declared that he was "quite shure they
all loved her, and they'd be brutes and bastes av' they didn't!"

The letter, as given above, was finally decided on; written, sealed, and despatched by Jack,
who was desired to be very particular to deliver it at the front door, with Miss Lynch's love,
which was accordingly done. All the care, however, which had been bestowed on it did not make
it palatable to Barry, who was alone when he received it, and merely muttered, as he read it,
"Confound her, low-minded slut! friends, indeed! what business has she with friends, except
such as I please?--if I'd the choosing of her friends, they'd be a strait waistcoat, and the
madhouse doctor. Good Heaven! that half my property--no, but two-thirds of it,--should belong
to her!--the stupid, stiff-necked robber!"

These last pleasant epithets had reference to his respected progenitor.

On the same evening, after tea, Martin endeavoured to make a little further advance with Anty,
for he felt that he had been interrupted just as she was coming round; but her nerves were
again disordered, and he soon found that if he pressed her now, he should only get a decided
negative, which he might find it very difficult to induce her to revoke.

Anty's letter was sent off early on the Monday morning--at least, as early as Barry now ever
managed to do anything--to the attorney at Tuam, with strong injunctions that no time was to
be lost in taking further steps, and with a request that Daly would again come out to Dunmore.
This, however, he did not at present think it expedient to do. So he wrote to Barry, begging
him to come into Tuam on the Wednesday, to meet Moylan, whom he, Daly, would, if possible,
contrive to see on the intervening day.

"Obstinate puppy!" said Barry to himself--"if he'd had the least pluck in life he'd have broken
the will, or at least made the girl out a lunatic. But a Connaught lawyer hasn't half the wit
or courage now that he used to have." However, he wrote a note to Daly, agreeing to his proposal,
and promising to be in Tuam at two o'clock on the Wednesday.

On the following day Daly saw Moylan, and had a long conversation with him. The old man held
out for a long time, expressing much indignation at being supposed capable of joining in any
underhand agreement for transferring Miss Lynch's property to his relatives the Kellys, and
declaring that he would make public to every one in Dunmore and Tuam the base manner in which
Barry Lynch was treating his sister. Indeed, Moylan kept to his story so long and so firmly
that the young attorney was nearly giving him up; but at last he found his weak side.

"Well, Mr Moylan," he said, "then I can only say your own conduct is very disinterested;--and
I might even go so far as to say that you appear to me foolishly indifferent to your own concerns.
Here's the agency of the whole property going a-begging: the rents, I believe, are about a
thousand a-year: you might be recaving them all by jist a word of your mouth, and that only
telling the blessed truth; and here, you're going to put the whole thing into the hands of
young Kelly; throwing up even the half of the business you have got!"

"Who says I'm afther doing any sich thing, Mr Daly?"

"Why, Martin Kelly says so. Didn't as many as four or five persons hear him say, down at Dunmore,
that divil a one of the tenants'd iver pay a haporth [30] of the November rents to anyone only
jist to himself? There was father Geoghegan heard him, an Doctor Ned Blake."

     [FOOTNOTE 30: haporth--half-penny's worth]

"Maybe he'll find his mistake, Mr Daly."

"Maybe he will, Mr Moylan. Maybe we'll put the whole affair into the courts, and have a regular
recaver over the property, under the Chancellor. People, though they're ever so respectable
in their way,--and I don't mane to say a word against the Kellys, Mr Moylan, for they were
always friends of mine--but people can't be allowed to make a dead set at a property like this,
and have it all their own way, like the bull in the china-shop. I know there has been an agreement
made, and that, in the eye of the law, is a conspiracy. I positively know that an agreement
has been made to induce Miss Lynch to become Martin Kelly's wife; and I know the parties to
it, too; and I also know that an active young fellow like him wouldn't be paying an agent to
get in his rents; and I thought, if Mr Lynch was willing to appoint you his agent, as well
as his sister's, it might be worth your while to lend us a hand to settle this affair, without
forcing us to stick people into a witness-box whom neither I nor Mr Lynch--"

"But what the d----l can I--"

"Jist hear me out, Mr Moylan; you see, if they once knew--the Kellys I mane--that you wouldn't
lend a hand to this piece of iniquity--"

"Which piece of iniquity, Mr Daly?--for I'm entirely bothered."

"Ah, now, Mr Moylan, none of your fun: this piece of iniquity of theirs, I say; for I can call
it no less. If they once knew that you wouldn't help 'em, they'd be obliged to drop it all;
the matter'd never have to go into court at all, and you'd jist step into the agency fair and
aisy; and, into the bargain, you'd do nothing but an honest man's work."

The old man broke down, and consented to "go agin the Kellys," as he somewhat ambiguously styled
his apostasy, provided the agency was absolutely promised to him; and he went away with the
understanding that he was to come on the following day and meet Mr Lynch.

At two o'clock, punctual to the time of his appointment, Moylan was there, and was kept waiting
an hour in Daly's little parlour. At the end of this time Barry came in, having invigorated
his courage and spirits with a couple of glasses of brandy. Daly had been for some time on
the look-out for him, for he wished to say a few words to him in private, and give him his
cue before he took him into the room where Moylan was sitting. This could not well be done
in the office, for it was crowded. It would, I think, astonish a London attorney in respectable
practice, to see the manner in which his brethren towards the west of Ireland get through their
work. Daly's office was open to all the world; the front door of the house, of which he rented
the ground floor, was never closed, except at night; nor was the door of the office, which
opened immediately into the hail.

During the hour that Moylan was waiting in the parlour, Daly was sitting, with his hat on,
upon a high stool, with his feet resting on a small counter which ran across the room, smoking
a pipe: a boy, about seventeen years of age, Daly's clerk, was filling up numbers of those
abominable formulas of legal persecution in which attorneys deal, and was plying his trade
as steadily as though no February blasts were blowing in on him through the open door, no sounds
of loud and boisterous conversation were rattling in his ears. The dashing manager of one of
the branch banks in the town was sitting close to the little stove, and raking out the turf
ashes with the office rule, while describing a drinking-bout that had taken place on the previous
Sunday at Blake's of Blakemount; he had a cigar in his mouth, and was searching for a piece
of well-kindled turf, wherewith to light it. A little fat oily shopkeeper in the town, who
called himself a woollen merchant, was standing with the raised leaf of the counter in his
hand, roaring with laughter at the manager's story. Two frieze coated farmers, outside the
counter, were stretching across it, and whispering very audibly to Daly some details of litigation
which did not appear very much to interest him; and a couple of idle blackguards were leaning
against the wall, ready to obey any behest of the attorney's which might enable them to earn
a sixpence without labour, and listening with all their ears to the different interesting topics
of conversation which might be broached in the inner office.

"Here's the very man I'm waiting for, at last," said Daly, when, from his position on the stool,
he saw, through the two open doors, the bloated red face of Barry Lynch approaching; and, giving
an impulse to his body by a shove against the wall behind him, he raised himself on to the
counter, and, assisting himself by a pull at the collar of the frieze coat of the farmer who
was in the middle of his story, jumped to the ground, and met his client at the front door.

"I beg your pardon, Mr Lynch," said he as soon as he had shaken hands with him, "but will you
just step up to my room a minute, for I want to spake to you;" and he took him up into his
bed-room, for he hadn't a second sitting-room. "You'll excuse my bringing you up here, for
the office was full, you see, and Moylan's in the parlour."

"The d----l he is! He came round then, did he, eh, Daly?"

"Oh, I've had a terrible hard game to play with him. I'd no idea he'd be so tough a customer,
or make such a good fight; but I think I've managed him."

"There was a regular plan then, eh, Daly? Just as I said. It was a regular planned scheme among
them?"

"Wait a moment, and you'll know all about it, at least as much as I know myself; and, to tell
the truth, that's devilish little. But, if we manage to break off the match, and get your sister
clane out of the inn there, you must give Moylan your agency, at any rate for two or three years."

"You haven't promised that?"

"But I have, though. We can do nothing without it: it was only when I hinted that, that the
old sinner came round."

"But what the deuce is it he's to do for us, after all?"

"He's to allow us to put him forward as a bugbear, to frighten the Kellys with: that's all,
and, if we can manage that, that's enough. But come down now. I only wanted to warn you that,
if you think the agency is too high a price to pay for the man's services, whatever they may
be, you must make up your mind to dispense with them."

"Well," answered Barry, as he followed the attorney downstairs, "I can't understand what you're
about; but I suppose you must be right;" and they went into the little parlour where Moylan
was sitting.

Moylan and Barry Lynch had only met once, since the former had been entrusted to receive Anty's
rents, on which occasion Moylan had been grossly insulted by her brother. Barry, remembering
the meeting, felt very awkward at the idea of entering into amicable conversation with him,
and crept in at the door like a whipped dog. Moylan was too old to feel any such compunctions,
and consequently made what he intended to be taken as a very complaisant bow to his future
patron. He was an ill-made, ugly, stumpy man, about fifty; with a blotched face, straggling
sandy hair, and grey shaggy whiskers. He wore a long brown great coat, buttoned up to his chin,
and this was the only article of wearing apparel visible upon him: in his hands he twirled
a shining new four-and-fourpenny hat.

As soon as their mutual salutations were over, Daly commenced his business.

"There is no doubt in the world, Mr Lynch," said he, addressing Barry, "that a most unfair
attempt has been made by this family to get possession of your sister's property--a most shameful
attempt, which the law will no doubt recognise as a misdemeanour. But I think we shall be able
to stop their game without any law at all, which will save us the annoyance of putting Mr Moylan
here, and other respectable witnesses, on the table. Mr Moylan says that very soon afther your
father's will was made known--"

"Now, Mr Daly--shure I niver said a word in life at all about the will," said Moylan, interrupting
him.

"No, you did not: I mane, very soon afther you got the agency--"

"Divil a word I said about the agency, either."

"Well, well; some time ago--he says that, some time ago, he and Martin Kelly were talking over
your sister's affairs; I believe the widow was there, too."

"Ah, now, Mr Daly--why'd you be putting them words into my mouth? sorrow a word of the kind
I iver utthered at all."

"What the deuce was it you did say, then?"

"Faix, I don't know that I said much, at all."

"Didn't you say, Mr Moylan, that Martin Kelly was talking to you about marrying Anty, some
six weeks ago?"

"Maybe I did; he was spaking about it."

"And, if you were in the chair now, before a jury, wouldn't you swear that there was a schame
among them to get Anty Lynch married to Martin Kelly? Come, Mr Moylan, that's all we want to
know: if you can't say as much as that for us now, just that we may let the Kellys know what
sort of evidence we could bring against them, if they push us, we must only have you and others
summoned, and see what you'll have to say then."

"Oh, I'd say the truth, Mr Daly--divil a less--and I'd do as much as that now; but I thought
Mr Lynch was wanting to say something about the property?"

"Not a word then I've to say about it," said Barry, "except that I won't let that robber, young
Kelly, walk off with it, as long as there's law in the land."

"Mr Moylan probably meant about the agency," observed Daly.

Barry looked considerably puzzled, and turned to the attorney for assistance. "He manes," continued
Daly, "that he and the Kellys are good friends, and it wouldn't be any convenience to him just
to say anything that wouldn't be pleasing to them, unless we could make him independent of
them:--isn't that about the long and the short of it, Mr Moylan?"

"Indepindent of the Kellys, is it, Mr Daly?--Faix, thin, I'm teetotally indepindent of them
this minute, and mane to continue so, glory be to God. Oh, I'm not afeard to tell the thruth
agin ere a Kelly in Galway or Roscommon--and, av' that was all, I don't see why I need have
come here this day. When I'm called upon in the rigular way, and has a rigular question put
me before the Jury, either at Sessions or 'Sizes, you'll find I'll not be bothered for an answer,
and, av' that's all, I b'lieve I may be going,"--and he made a movement towards the door.

"Just as you please, Mr Moylan," said Daly; "and you may be sure that you'll not be long without
an opportunity of showing how free you are with your answers. But, as a friend, I tell you
you'll be wrong to lave this room till you've had a little more talk with Mr Lynch and myself.
I believe I mentioned to you Mr Lynch was looking out for someone to act as agent over his
portion of the Dunmore property?"

Barry looked as black as thunder, but he said nothing.

"You war, Mr Daly. Av' I could accommodate Mr Lynch, I'm shure I'd be happy to undhertake the
business."

"I believe, Mr Lynch," said Daly, turning to the other, "I may go so far as to promise Mr Moylan
the agency of the whole property, provided Miss Lynch is induced to quit the house of the Kellys?
Of course, Mr Moylan, you can see that as long as Miss Lynch is in a position of unfortunate
hostility to her brother, the same agent could not act for both; but I think my client is inclined
to put his property under your management, providing his sister returns to her own home. I
believe I'm stating your wishes, Mr Lynch."

"Manage it your own way," said Barry, "for I don't see what you're doing. If this man can do
anything for me, why, I suppose I must pay him for it; and if so, your plan's as good a way
of paying him as another."

The attorney raised his hat with his hand, and scratched his head: he was afraid that Moylan
would have again gone off in a pet at Lynch's brutality, but the old man sat quite quiet. He
wouldn't have much minded what was said to him, as long as he secured the agency.

"You see, Mr Moylan," continued Daly, "you can have the agency. Five per cent. upon the rents
is what my client--"

"No, Daly--Five per cent.!--I'm shot if I do!" exclaimed Barry.

"I'm gething twenty-five pounds per annum from Miss Anty, for her half, and I wouldn't think
of collecting the other for less," declared Moylan.

And then a long battle followed on this point, which it required all Daly's tact and perseverance
to adjust. The old man was pertinacious, and many whispers had to be made into Barry's ear
before the matter could be settled. It was, however, at last agreed that notice was to be served
on the Kellys, of Barry Lynch's determination to indict them for a conspiracy; that Daly was
to see the widow, Martin, and, if possible, Anty, and tell them all that Moylan was prepared
to prove that such a conspiracy had been formed;--care was also to be taken that copies of
the notices so served should be placed in Anty's hands. Moylan, in the meantime, agreed to
keep out of the way, and undertook, should he be unfortunate enough to encounter any of the
family of the Kellys, to brave the matter out by declaring that "av' he war brought before
the Judge and Jury he couldn't do more than tell the blessed thruth, and why not?" In reward
for this, he was to be appointed agent over the entire property the moment that Miss Lynch
left the inn, at which time he was to receive a document, signed by Barry, undertaking to retain
him in the agency for four years certain, or else to pay him a hundred pounds when it was taken
from him.

These terms having been mutually agreed to, and Barry having, with many oaths, declared that
he was a most shamefully ill-used man, the three separated. Moylan skulked off to one of his
haunts in the town; Barry went to the bank, to endeavour to get a bill discounted [30]; and
Daly returned to his office, to prepare the notices for the unfortunate widow and her son.

     [FOOTNOTE 30: bill discounted--A common way for young men to
                   borrow money in nineteenth century Britain was to
                   sign a promissory note (an "I.O.U."), often called a
                   "bill," to repay the loan at a specified time. The
                   lender gave the borrower less than the face value
                   of the note (that is, he "discounted" the note),
                   the difference being the interest. Sometimes these
                   notes were co-signed by a third party, who became
                   responsible for repaying the loan if the borrower
                   defaulted; this is one of the major themes in
                   Trollope's later book Framley Parsonage. Trollope
                   himself was quite familiar with methods of
                   borrowing, having gotten into debt in his youth.]

XIX.  MR DALY VISITS THE DUNMORE INN

Daly let no grass grow under his feet, for early on the following morning he hired a car, and
proceeded to Dunmore, with the notices in his pocket. His feelings were not very comfortable
on his journey, for he knew that he was going on a bad errand, and he was not naturally either
a heartless or an unscrupulous man, considering that he was a provincial attorney; but he was
young in business, and poor, and he could not afford to give up a client. He endeavoured to
persuade himself that it certainly was a wrong thing for Martin Kelly to marry such a woman
as Anty Lynch, and that Barry had some show of justice on his side; but he could not succeed.
He knew that Martin was a frank, honourable fellow, and that a marriage with him would be the
very thing most likely to make Anty happy; and he was certain, moreover, that, however anxious
Martin might naturally be to secure the fortune, he would take no illegal or even unfair steps
to do so. He felt that his client was a ruffian of the deepest die: that his sole object was
to rob his sister, and that he had no case which it would be possible even to bring before
a jury. His intention now was, merely to work upon the timidity and ignorance of Anty and the
other females, and to frighten them with a bugbear in the shape of a criminal indictment; and
Daly felt that the work he was about was very, very dirty work. Two or three times on the road,
he had all but made up his mind to tear the letters he had in his pocket, and to drive at once
to Dunmore House, and tell Barry Lynch that he would do nothing further in the case. And he
would have done so, had he not reflected that he had gone so far with Moylan, that he could
not recede, without leaving it in the old rogue's power to make the whole matter public.

As he drove down the street of Dunmore, he endeavoured to quiet his conscience, by reflecting
that he might still do much to guard Anty from the ill effects of her brother's rapacity; and
that at any rate he would not see her property taken from her, though she might be frightened
out of her matrimonial speculation.

He wanted to see the widow, Martin, and Anty, and if possible to see them, at first, separately;
and fortune so far favoured him that, as he got off the car, he saw our hero standing at the
inn door.

"Ah! Mr Daly," said he, coming up to the car and shaking hands with the attorney, for Daly
put out his hand to him--"how are you again?--I suppose you're going up to the house? They
say you're Barry's right hand man now. Were you coming into the inn?"

"Why, I will step in just this minute; but I've a word I want to spake to you first."

"To me!" said Martin.

"Yes, to you, Martin Kelly: isn't that quare?" and then he gave directions to the driver to
put up the horse, and bring the car round again in an hour's time. "D' you remember my telling
you, the day we came into Dunmore on the car together, that I was going up to the house?"

"Faith I do, well; it's not so long since."

"And do you mind my telling you, I didn't know from Adam what it was for, that Barry Lynch
was sending for me?"

"And I remember that, too."

"And that I tould you, that when I did know I shouldn't tell you?"

"Begad you did, Mr Daly; thim very words."

"Why then, Martin, I tould you what wasn't thrue, for I'm come all the way from Tuam, this
minute, to tell you all about it."

Martin turned very red, for he rightly conceived that when an attorney came all the way from
Tuam to talk to him, the tidings were not likely to be agreeable.

"And is it about Barry Lynch's business?"

"It is."

"Then it's schames there's divil a doubt of that."

"It is schames, as you say, Martin," said Daly, slapping him on the shoulder--"fine schames--no
less than a wife with four hundred a-year! Wouldn't that be a fine schame?"

"'Deed it would, Mr Daly, av' the wife and the fortune were honestly come by."

"And isn't it a hundred pities that I must come and upset such a pretty schame as that? But,
for all that, it's thrue. I'm sorry for you, Martin, but you must give up Anty Lynch."

"Give her up, is it? Faith I haven't got her to give up, worse luck."

"Nor never will, Martin; and that's worse luck again."

"Well, Mr Daly, av' that's all you've come to say, you might have saved yourself car-hire.
Miss Lynch is nothing to me, mind; how should she be? But av' she war, neither Barry Lynch--who's
as big a rogue as there is from this to hisself and back again--nor you, who, I take it, ain't
rogue enough to do Barry's work, wouldn't put me off it."

"Well, Martin; thank 'ee for the compliment. But now, you know what I've come about, and there's
no joke in it. Of course I don't want you to tell me anything of your plans; but, as Mr Lynch's
lawyer, I must tell you so much as this of his:--that, if his sister doesn't lave the inn,
and honestly assure him that she'll give up her intention of marrying you, he's determined
to take proceedings." He then fumbled in his pocket, and, bringing out the two notices, handed
to Martin the one addressed to him. "Read that, and it'll give you an idea what we're afther.
And when I tell you that Moylan owns, and will swear to it too, that he was present when all
the plans were made, you'll see that we're not going to sea without wind in our sails."

"Well--I'm shot av' I know the laist in the world what all this is about!" said Martin, as
he stood in the street, reading over the legally-worded letter--"'conspiracy!'--well that'll
do, Mr Daly; go on--'enticing away from her home!'--that's good, when the blackguard nearly
knocked the life out of her, and mother brought her down here, from downright charity, and
to prevent murdher--'wake intellects!'--well, Mr Daly, I didn't expect this kind of thing from
you: begorra, I thought you were above this!--wake intellects! faith, they're a dale too sthrong,
and too good--and too wide awake too, for Barry to get the betther of her that way. Not that
I'm in the laist in life surprised at anything he'd do; but I thought that you, Mr Daly, wouldn't
put your hands to such work as that."

Daly felt the rebuke, and felt it strongly, too; but now that he was embarked in the business,
he must put the best face he could upon it. Still it was a moment or two before he could answer
the young farmer.

"Why," he said--"why did you put your hands to such a dirty job as this, Martin?--you were
doing well, and not in want--and how could you let anyone persuade you to go and sell yourself
to, an ugly ould maid, for a few hundred pounds? Don't you know, that if you were married to
her this minute, you'd have a lawsuit that'd go near to ruin you before you could get possession
of the property?"

"Av' I'm in want of legal advice, Mr Daly, which thank God, I'm not, nor likely to be--but
av' I war, it's not from Barry Lynch's attorney I'd be looking for it."

"I'd be sorry to see you in want of it, Martin; but if you mane to keep out of the worst kind
of law, you'd better have done with Anty Lynch. I'd a dale sooner be drawing up a marriage
settlement between you and some pretty girl with five or six hundred pound fortune, than I'd
be exposing to the counthry such a mane trick as this you're now afther, of seducing a poor
half-witted ould maid, like Anty Lynch, into a disgraceful marriage."

"Look here, Mr Daly," said the other; "you've hired yourself out to Barry Lynch, and you must
do his work, I suppose, whether it's dirthy or clane; and you know yourself, as well as I can
tell you, which it's likely to be--"

"That's my concern; lave that to me; you've quite enough to do to mind yourself."

"But av' he's nothing betther for you to do, than to send you here bally-ragging and calling
folks out of their name, he must have a sight more money to spare than I give him credit for;
and you must be a dale worse off than your neighbours thought you, to do it for him."

"That'll do," said Mr Daly, knocking at the door of the inn; "only, remember, Mr Kelly, you've
now received notice of the steps which my client feels himself called upon to take."

Martin turned to go away, but then, reflecting that it would be as well not to leave the women
by themselves in the power of the enemy, he also waited at the door till it was opened by Katty.

"Is Miss Lynch within?" asked Daly.

"Go round to the shop, Katty," said Martin, "and tell mother to come to the door. There's a
gentleman wanting her."

"It was Miss Lynch I asked for," said Daly, still looking to the girl for an answer.

"Do as I bid you, you born ideot, and don't stand gaping there," shouted Martin to the girl,
who immediately ran off towards the shop.

"I might as well warn you, Mr Kelly, that, if Miss Lynch is denied to me, the fact of her being
so denied will be a very sthrong proof against you and your family. In fact, it amounts to
an illegal detention of her person, in the eye of the law." Daly said this in a very low voice,
almost a whisper.

"Faith, the law must have quare eyes, av' it makes anything wrong with a young lady being asked
the question whether or no she wishes to see an attorney, at eleven in the morning."

"An attorney!" whispered Meg to Jane and Anty at the top of the stairs.

"Heaven and 'arth," said poor Anty, shaking and shivering--"what's going to be the matter now?"

"It's young Daly," said Jane, stretching forward and peeping clown the stairs: "I can see the
curl of his whiskers."

By this time the news had reached Mrs Kelly, in the shop, "that a sthrange gentleman war axing
for Miss Anty, but that she warn't to be shown to him on no account;" so the widow dropped
her tobacco knife, flung off her dirty apron, and, having summoned Jane and Meg to attend to
the mercantile affairs of the establishment--turned into the inn, and met Mr Daly and her son
still standing at the bottom of the stairs.

The widow curtsied ceremoniously, and wished Mr. Daly good morning, and he was equally civil
in his salutation.

"Mr Daly's going to have us all before the assizes, mother. We'll never get off without the
treadmill, any way: it's well av' the whole kit of us don't have to go over the wather at the
queen's expense."

"The Lord be good to us;" said the widow, crossing herself. What's the matter, Mr Daly?"

"Your son's joking, ma'am. I was only asking to see Miss Lynch, on business."

"Step upstairs, mother, into the big parlour, and don't let's be standing talking here where
all the world can hear us."

"And wilcome, for me, I'm shure"--said the widow, stroking down the front of her dress with
the palms of her hands, as she walked upstairs--"and wilcome too for me I'm very shure. I've
said or done nothing as I wish to consail, Mr Daly. Will you be plazed to take a chair?" and
the widow sat down herself on a chair in the middle of the room, with her hands folded over
each other in her lap, as if she was preparing to answer questions from that time to a very
late hour in the evening.

"And now, Mr Daly--av' you've anything to say to a poor widdy like me, I'm ready."

"My chief object in calling, Mrs Kelly, was to see Miss Lynch. Would you oblige me by letting
Miss Lynch know that I'm waiting to see her on business."

"Maybe it's a message from her brother, Mr Daly?" said Mrs Kelly.

"You had better go in to Miss Lynch, mother," said Martin, "and ask her av' it's pleasing to
her to see Mr Daly. She can see him, in course, av' she likes."

"I don't see what good 'll come of her seeing him," rejoined the widow. "With great respect
to you, Mr Daly, and not maning to say a word agin you, I don't see how Anty Lynch 'll be the
betther for seeing ere an attorney in the counthry."

"I don't want to frighten you, ma'am," said Daly; "but I can assure you, you will put yourself
in a very awkward position if you refuse to allow me to see Miss Lynch."

"Ah, mother!" said Martin, "don't have a word to say in the matther at all, one way or the
other. Just tell Anty Mr Daly wishes to see her--let her come or not, just as she chooses.
What's she afeard of, that she shouldn't hear what anyone has to say to her?"

The widow seemed to be in great doubt and perplexity, and continued whispering with Martin
for some time, during which Daly remained standing with his back to the fire. At length Martin
said, "Av' you've got another of them notices to give my mother, Mr Daly, why don't you do it?"

"Why, to tell you the thruth," answered the attorney, "I don't want to throuble your mother
unless it's absolutely necessary; and although I have the notice ready in my pocket, if I could
see Miss Lynch, I might be spared the disagreeable job of serving it on her."

"The Holy Virgin save us!" said the widow; "an' what notice is it at all, you're going to serve
on a poor lone woman like me?"

"Be said by me, mother, and fetch Anty in here. Mr Daly won't expect, I suppose, but what you
should stay and hear what it is he has to say?"

"Both you and your mother are welcome to hear all that I have to say to the lady," said Daly;
for he felt that it would be impossible for him to see Anty alone.

The widow unwillingly got up to fetch her guest. When she got to the door, she turned round,
and said, "And is there a notice, as you calls it, to be sarved on Miss Lynch?"

"Not a line, Mrs Kelly; not a line, on my honour. I only want her to hear a few words that
I'm commissioned by her brother to say to her."

"And you're not going to give her any paper--nor nothing of that sort at all?"

"Not a word, Mrs Kelly."

"Ah, mother," said Martin, "Mr Daly couldn't hurt her, av' he war wishing, and he's not. Go
and bring her in."

The widow went out, and in a few minutes returned, bringing Anty with her, trembling from head
to foot. The poor young woman had not exactly heard what had passed between the attorney and
the mother and her son, but she knew very well that his visit had reference to her, and that
it was in some way connected with her brother. She had, therefore, been in a great state of
alarm since Meg and Jane had left her alone. When Mrs Kelly came into the little room where
she was sitting, and told her that Mr Daly had come to Dunmore on purpose to see her, her first
impulse was to declare that she wouldn't go to him; and had she done so, the widow would not
have pressed her. But she hesitated, for she didn't like to refuse to do anything which her
friend asked her; and when Mrs Kelly said, "Martin says as how the man can't hurt you, Anty,
so you'd betther jist hear what it is he has to say," she felt that she had no loophole of
escape, and got up to comply.

"But mind, Anty," whispered the cautious widow, as her hand was on the parlour door, "becase
this Daly is wanting to speak to you, that's no rason you should be wanting to spake to him;
so, if you'll be said by me, you'll jist hould your tongue, and let him say on."

Fully determined to comply with this prudent advice, Anty followed the old woman, and, curtseying
at Daly without looking at him, sat herself down in the middle of the old sofa, with her hands
crossed before her.

"Anty," said Martin, making great haste to speak, before Daly could commence, and then checking
himself as he remembered that he shouldn't have ventured on the familiarity of calling her
by her Christian name in Daly's presence--"Miss Lynch, I mane--as Mr Daly here has come all
the way from Tuam on purpose to spake to you, it wouldn't perhaps be manners in you to let
him go back without hearing him. But remember, whatever your brother says, or whatever Mr Daly
says for him--and it's all--one you're still your own mistress, free to act and to spake, to
come and to go; and that neither the one nor the other can hurt you, or mother, or me, nor
anybody belonging to us."

"God knows," said Daly, "I want to have no hand in hurting any of you; but, to tell the truth,
Martin, it would be well for Miss Lynch to have a better adviser than you or she may get herself,
and, what she'll think more of, she'll get her friends--maning you, Mrs Kelly, and your family--into
a heap of throubles."

"Oh, God forbid, thin!" exclaimed Anty.

"Niver mind us, Mr Daly," said the widow. "The Kellys was always able to hould their own; thanks
be to glory."

"Well, I've said my say, Mr Daly," said Martin, "and now do you say your'n: as for throubles,
we've all enough of thim; but your own must have been bad, when you undhertook this sort of
job for Barry Lynch."

"Mind yourself, Martin, as I told you before, and you'll about have enough to do.--Miss Lynch,
I've been instructed by your brother to draw up an indictment against Mrs Kelly and Mr Kelly,
charging them with conspiracy to get possession of your fortune."

"A what!" shouted the widow, jumping up from her chair--"to rob Anty Lynch of her fortune!
I'd have you to know, Mr Daly, I wouldn't demane myself to rob the best gentleman in Connaught,
let alone a poor unprotected young woman, whom I've--"

"Whist, mother--go asy," said Martin. "I tould you that that was what war in the paper he gave
me; he'll give you another, telling you all about it just this minute."

"Well, the born ruffian! Does he dare to accuse me of wishing to rob his sister! Now, Mr Daly,
av' the blessed thruth is in you this minute, don't your own heart know who it is, is most
likely to rob Anty Lynch?--Isn't it Barry Lynch himself is thrying to rob his own sisther this
minute? ay, and he'd murdher her too, only the heart within him isn't sthrong enough."

"Ah, mother! don't be saying such things," said Martin; "what business is that of our'n? Let
Barry send what messages he plazes; I tell you it's all moonshine; he can't hurt the hair of
your head, nor Anty's neither. Go asy, and let Mr Daly say what he has to say, and have done
with it."

"It's asy to say 'go asy'--but who's to sit still and be tould sich things as that? Rob Anty
Lynch indeed!"

"If you'll let me finish what I have to say, Mrs Kelly, I think you'll find it betther for
the whole of us," said Daly.

"Go on thin, and be quick with it; but don't talk to dacent people about robbers any more.
Robbers indeed! they're not far to fitch; and black robbers too, glory be to God."

"Your brother, Miss Lynch, is determined to bring this matter before a jury at the assizes,
for the sake of protecting you and your property."

"Protecthing Anty Lynch!--is it Barry? The Holy Virgin defind her from sich prothection! a
broken head the first moment the dhrink makes his heart sthrong enough to sthrike her!"

"Ah, mother! you're a fool," exclaimed Martin: "why can't you let the man go on?--ain't he
paid for saying it? Well, Mr Daly, begorra I pity you, to have such things on your tongue;
but go on, go on, and finish it."

"Your brother conceives this to be his duty," continued Daly, rather bothered by the manner
in which he had to make his communication, "and it is a duty which he is determined to go through
with."

"Duty!" said the widow, with a twist of her nose, and giving almost a whistle through her lips,
in a manner which very plainly declared the contempt she felt for Barry's ideas of duty.

"With this object," continued Daly, "I have already handed to Martin Kelly a notice of what
your brother means to do; and I have another notice prepared in my pocket for his mother. The
next step will be to swear the informations before a magistrate, and get the committals made
out; Mrs Kelly and her son will then have to give bail for their appearance at the assizes."

"And so we can," said the widow; "betther bail than e'er a Lynch or Daly--not but what the
Dalys is respictable--betther bail, any way, than e'er a Lynch in Galway could show, either
for sessions or 'sizes, by night or by day, winter or summer."

"Ah, mother! you don't understhand: he's maning that we're to be tried in the dock, for staling
Anty's money."

"Faix, but that'd be a good joke! Isn't Anty to the fore herself to say who's robbed her? Take
an ould woman's advice, Mr Daly, and go back to Tuam: it ain't so asy to put salt on the tail
of a Dunmore bird."

"And so I will, Mrs Kelly," said Daly; "but you must let me finish what I have to tell Miss
Lynch.--This will be a proceeding most disagreeable to your brother's feelings."

"Failings, indeed!" muttered the widow; "faix, I b'lieve his chief failing at present's for
sthrong dhrink!"

"--But he must go on with it, unless you at once lave the inn, return to your own home, and
give him your promise that you will never marry Martin Kelly."

Anty blushed deep crimson over her whole face at the mention of her contemplated marriage;
and, to tell the truth, so did Martin.

"Here is the notice," said Daly, taking the paper out of his pocket; "and the matter now rests
with yourself. If you'll only tell me that you'll be guided by your brother on this subject,
I'll burn the notice at once; and I'll undertake to say that, as far as your property is concerned,
your brother will not in the least interfere with you in the management of it."

"And good rason why, Mr Daly," said the widow--"jist becase he can't."

"Well, Miss Lynch, am I to tell your brother that you are willing to oblige him in this matter?"

Whatever effect Daly's threats may have had on the widow and her son, they told strongly upon
Anty; for she sat now the picture of misery and indecision. At last she said: "Oh, Lord defend
me! what am I to do, Mrs Kelly?"

"Do?" said Martin; "why, what should you do--but just wish Mr Daly good morning, and stay where
you are, snug and comfortable?"

"Av' you war to lave this, Anty, and go up to Dunmore House afther all that's been said and
done, I'd say Barry was right, and that Ballinasloe Asylum was the fitting place for you,"
said the widow.

"The blessed virgin guide and prothect me," said Anty, "for I want her guidance this minute.
Oh, that the walls of a convent was round me this minute--I wouldn't know what throuble was!"

"And you needn't know anything about throuble," said Martin, who didn't quite like his mistress's
allusion to a convent. "You don't suppose there's a word of thruth in all this long story of
Mr Daly's?--He knows,--and I'll say it out to his face--he knows Barry don't dare carry on
with sich a schame. He knows he's only come here to frighten you out of this, that Barry may
have his will on you again."

"And God forgive him his errand here this day," said the widow, "for it was a very bad one."

"If you will allow me to offer you my advice, Miss Lynch," said Daly, "you will put yourself,
at any rate for a time, under your brother's protection."

"She won't do no sich thing," said the widow. "What! to be locked into the parlour agin--and
be nigh murdhered? holy father!"

"Oh, no," said Anty, at last, shuddering in horror at the remembrance of the last night she
passed in Dunmore House, "I cannot go back to live with him, but I'll do anything else, av'
he'll only lave me, and my kind, kind friends, in pace and quiet."

"Indeed, and you won't, Anty," said the widow; "you'll do nothing for him. Your frinds--that's
av' you mane the Kellys--is very able to take care of themselves."

"If your brother, Miss Lynch, will lave Dunmore House altogether, and let you have it to yourself,
will you go and live there, and give him the promise not to marry Martin Kelly?"

"Indeed an' she won't," said the widow. "She'll give no promise of the kind. Promise, indeed!
what for should she promise Barry Lynch whom she will marry, or whom she won't?"

"Raily, Mrs Kelly, I think you might let Miss Lynch answer for herself."

"I wouldn't, for all the world thin, go to live at Dunmore House," said Anty.

"And you are determined to stay in this inn here?"

"In course she is--that's till she's a snug house of her own," said the widow.

"Ah, mother!" said Martin, "what for will you be talking?"

"And you're determined," repeated Daly, "to stay here?"

"I am," faltered Anty.

"Then I have nothing further to do than to hand you this, Mrs Kelly"--and he offered the notice
to the widow, but she refused to touch it, and he consequently put it down on the table. "But
it is my duty to tell you, Miss Lynch, that the gentry of this counthry, before whom you will
have to appear, will express very great indignation at your conduct in persevering in placing
poor people like the Kellys in so dreadful a predicament, by your wilful and disgraceful obstinacy."

Poor Anty burst into tears. She had been for some time past trying to restrain herself, but
Daly's last speech, and the horrible idea of the gentry of the country browbeating and frowning
at her, completely upset her, and she hid her face on the arm of the sofa, and sobbed aloud.

"Poor people like the Kellys!" shouted the widow, now for the first time really angry with
Daly--"not so poor, Mr Daly, as to do dirthy work for anyone. I wish I could say as much this
day for your mother's son! Poor people, indeed! I suppose, now, you wouldn't call Barry Lynch
one of your poor people; but in my mind he's the poorest crature living this day in county
Galway. Av' you've done now, Mr Daly, you've my lave to be walking; and the less you let the
poor Kellys see of you, from this time out, the betther."

When Anty's sobs commenced, Martin had gone over to her to comfort her, "Ah, Anty, dear," he
whispered to her, "shure you'd not be minding what such a fellow as he'd be saying to you?--shure
he's jist paid for all this--he's only sent here by Barry to thry and frighten you,"--but it
was of no avail: Daly had succeeded at any rate in making her miserable, and it was past the
power of Martin's eloquence to undo what the attorney had done.

"Well, Mr Daly," he said, turning round sharply, "I suppose you have done here now, and the
sooner you turn your back on this place the betther--An' you may take this along with you.
Av' you think you've frightened my mother or me, you're very much mistaken."

"Yes," said Daly, "I have done now, and I am sorry my business has been so unpleasant. Your
mother, Martin, had betther not disregard that notice. Good morning, Miss Lynch: good morning,
Mrs Kelly; good morning, Martin;" and Daly took up his hat, and left the room.

"Good morning to you, Mr Daly," said Martin: "as I've said before, I'm sorry to see you've
taken to this line of business."

As soon as the attorney was gone, both Martin and his mother attempted to console and re-assure
poor Anty, but they did not find the task an easy one. "Oh, Mrs Kelly," she said, as soon as
she was able to say anything, "I'm sorry I iver come here, I am: I'm sorry I iver set my foot
in the house!"

"Don't say so, Anty, dear," said the widow. "What'd you be sorry for--an't it the best place
for you?"

"Oh! but to think that I'd bring all these throubles on you! Betther be up there, and bear
it all, than bring you and yours into law, and sorrow, and expense. Only I couldn't find the
words in my throat to say it, I'd 've tould the man that I'd 've gone back at once. I wish
I had--indeed, Mrs Kelly, I wish I had."

"Why, Anty," said Martin, "you an't fool enough to believe what Daly's been saying? Shure all
he's afther is to frighthen you out of this. Never fear: Barry can't hurt us a halfporth, though
no doubt he's willing enough, av' he had the way."

"I wish I was in a convent, this moment," said Anty. "Oh! I wish I'd done as father asked me
long since. Av' the walls of a convent was around me, I'd niver know what throubles was."

"No more you shan't now," said Martin: "Who's to hurt you? Come, Anty, look up; there's nothing
in all this to vex you."

But neither son nor mother were able to soothe the poor young woman. The very presence of an
attorney was awful to her; and all the jargon which Daly had used, of juries, judges, trials,
and notices, had sounded terribly in her ears. The very names of such things were to her terrible
realities, and she couldn't bring herself to believe that her brother would threaten to make
use of such horrible engines of persecution, without having the power to bring them into action.
Then, visions of the lunatic asylum, into which he had declared that he would throw her, flitted
across her, and made her whole body shiver and shake; and again she remembered the horrid glare
of his eye, the hot breath, and the frightful form of his visage, on the night when he almost
told her that he would murder her.

Poor Anty had at no time high or enduring spirits, but such as she had were now completely
quelled. A dreadful feeling of coming evil--a foreboding of misery, such as will sometimes
overwhelm stronger minds than Anty's, seemed to stifle her; and she continued sobbing till
she fell into hysterics, when Meg and Jane were summoned to her assistance. They sat with her
for above an hour, doing all that kindness and affection could suggest; but after a time Anty
told them that she had a cold, sick feeling within herself, that she felt weak and ill, and
that she'd sooner go to bed. To bed they accordingly took her; and Sally brought her tea, and
Katty lighted a fire in her room, and Jane read to her an edifying article from the lives of
the Saints, and Meg argued with her as to the folly of being frightened. But it was all of
no avail; before night, Anty was really ill.

The next morning, the widow was obliged to own to herself that such was the case. In the afternoon,
Doctor Colligan was called in; and it was many, many weeks before Anty recovered from the effects
of the attorney's visit.

XX.  VERY LIBERAL

When the widow left the parlour, after having placed her guest in the charge of her daughters,
she summoned her son to follow her down stairs, and was very careful not to leave behind her
the notice which Daly had placed on the table. As soon as she found herself behind the shutter
of her little desk, which stood in the shop-window, she commenced very eagerly spelling it
over. The purport of the notice was, to inform her that Barry Lynch intended immediately to
apply to the magistrates to commit her and her son, for conspiring together to inveigle Anty
into a marriage; and that the fact of their having done so would be proved by Mr Moylan, who
was prepared to swear that he had been present when the plan had been arranged between them.
The reader is aware that whatever show of truth there might be for this accusation, as far
as Martin and Moylan himself were concerned, the widow at any rate was innocent; and he can
conceive the good lady's indignation at the idea of her own connection, Moylan, having been
seduced over to the enemy. Though she had put on a bold front against Daly, and though she
did not quite believe that Barry was in earnest in taking proceedings against her, still her
heart failed her as she read the legal technicalities of the papers she held in her hand, and
turned to her son for counsel in considerable tribulation.

"But there must be something in it, I tell you," said she. "Though Barry Lynch, and that limb
o' the divil, young Daly, 'd stick at nothin in the way of lies and desait, they'd niver go
to say all this about Moylan, unless he'd agree to do their bidding."

"That's like enough, mother: I dare say Moylan has been talked over--bought over rather; for
he's not one of them as'd do mischief for nothin."

"And does the ould robber mane to say that I--. As I live, I niver as much as mentioned Anty's
name to Moylan, except jist about the agency!"

"I'm shure you didn't, mother."

"And what is it then he has to say agin us?"

"Jist lies; that's av' he were called on to say anything; but he niver will be. This is all
one of Barry's schames to frighten you, and get Anty turned out of the inn."

"Thin Master Barry doesn't know the widdy Kelly, I can tell him that; for when I puts my hand
to a thing, I mane to pull through wid it. But tell me--all this'll be costing money, won't,
it? Attorneys don't bring thim sort of things about for nothing," and she gave a most contemptuous
twist to the notice.

"Oh, Barry must pay for that."

"I doubt that, Martin: he's not fond of paying, the mane, dirthy blackguard. I tell you what,
you shouldn't iver have let Daly inside the house: he'll make us pay for the writing o' thim
as shure as my name's Mary Kelly: av' he hadn't got into the house, he couldn't've done a halfporth."

"I tell you, mother, it wouldn't have done not to let him see Anty. They'd have said we'd got
her shut up here, and wouldn't let any one come nigh her."

"Well, Martin, you'll see we'll have to pay for it. This comes of meddling with other folks!
I wonder how I was iver fool enough to have fitched her down here!--Good couldn't come of daling
with such people as Barry Lynch."

"But you wouldn't have left her up there to be murdhered?"

"She's nothin' to me, and I don't know as she's iver like to be."

"May-be not."

"But, tell me, Martin--was there anything said between you and Moylan about Anty before she
come down here?"

"How, anything said, mother?"

"Why, was there any schaming betwixt you?"

"Schaming?--when I want to schame, I'll not go shares with sich a fellow as Moylan."

"Ah, but was there anything passed about Anty and you getting married? Come now, Martin; I'm
in all this throuble along of you, and you shouldn't lave me in the dark. Was you talking to
Moylan about Anty and her fortune?"

"Why, thin, I'll jist tell you the whole thruth, as I tould it all before to Mister Frank--that
is, Lord Ballindine, up in Dublin; and as I wouldn't mind telling it this minute to Barry,
or Daly, or any one else in the three counties. When Moylan got the agency, he come out to
me at Toneroe; and afther talking a bit about Anty and her fortune, he let on as how it would
be a bright spec for me to marry her, and I won't deny that it was he as first put it into
my head. Well, thin, he had schames of his own about keeping the agency, and getting a nice
thing out of the property himself, for putting Anty in my way; but I tould him downright I
didn't know anything about that; and that 'av iver I did anything in the matter it would be
all fair and above board; and that was all the conspiracy I and Moylan had."

"And enough too, Martin," said the widow. "You'll find it's quite enough to get us into throuble.
And why wouldn't you tell me what was going on between you?"

"There was nothing going on between us."

"I say there was;--and to go and invaigle me into your schames without knowing a word about
it!--It was a murdhering shame of you--and av' I do have to pay for it, I'll never forgive you."

"That's right, mother; quarrel with me about it, do. It was I made you bring Anty down here,
wasn't it? when I was up in Dublin all the time."

"But to go and put yourself in the power of sich a fellow as Moylan! I didn't think you were
so soft."

"Ah, bother, mother! Who's put themselves in the power of Moylan?"

"I'll moyle him, and spoil him too, the false blackguard, to turn agin the family--them as
has made him! I wondher what he's to get for swearing agin us?"--And then, after a pause, she
added in a most pathetic voice "oh, Martin, to think of being dragged away to Galway, before
the whole counthry, to be made a conspirather of! I, that always paid my way, before and behind,
though only a poor widdy! Who's to mind the shop, I wondher?--I'm shure Meg's not able; and
there'll be Mary'll be jist nigh her time, and won't be able to come! Martin, you've been and
ruined me with your plots and your marriages! What did you want with a wife, I wondher, and
you so well off!"--and Mrs Kelly began wiping her eyes, for she was affected to tears at the
prospect of her coming misery.

"Av' you take it so to heart, mother, you'd betther give Anty a hint to be out of this. You
heard Daly tell her, that was all Barry wanted."

Martin knew his mother tolerably well, or he would not have made this proposition. He understood
what the real extent of her sorrow was, and how much of her lamentation he was to attribute
to her laudable wish to appear a martyr to the wishes and pleasures of her children.

"Turn her out!" replied she, "no, niver; and I didn't think I'd 've heard you asking me to."

"I didn't ask you, mother,--only anything'd be betther than downright ruin."

"I wouldn't demane myself to Barry so much as to wish her out of this now she's here. But it
was along of you she came here, and av' I've to pay for all this lawyer work, you oughtn't
to see me at a loss. I'm shure I don't know where your sisthers is to look for a pound or two
when I'm gone, av' things goes on this way," and again the widow whimpered.

"Don't let that throuble you, mother: av' there's anything to pay, I won't let it come upon
you, any way. But I tell you there'll be nothing more about it."

Mrs Kelly was somewhat quieted by her son's guarantee, and, muttering that she couldn't afford
to be wasting her mornings in that way, diligently commenced weighing out innumerable three-halfporths
of brown sugar, and Martin went about his own business.

Daly left the inn, after his interview with Anty and the Kellys, in anything but a pleasant
frame of mind. In the first place, he knew that he had been signally unsuccessful, and that
his want of success had been mainly attributable to his having failed to see Anty alone; and,
in the next place, he felt more than ever disgusted with his client. He began to reflect, for
the first time, that he might, and probably would, irretrievably injure his character by undertaking,
as Martin truly called it, such a very low line of business: that, if the matter were persevered
in, every one in Connaught would be sure to hear of Anty's persecution; and that his own name
would be so mixed up with Lynch's in the transaction as to leave him no means of escaping the
ignominy which was so justly due to his employer. Beyond these selfish motives of wishing to
withdraw from the business, he really pitied Anty, and felt a great repugnance at being the
means of adding to her troubles; and he was aware of the scandalous shame of subjecting her
again to the ill-treatment of such a wretch as her brother, by threatening proceedings which
he knew could never be taken.

As he got on the car to return to Tuam, he determined that whatever plan he might settle on
adopting, he would have nothing further to do with prosecuting or persecuting either Anty or
the Kellys. "I'll give him the best advice I can about it," said Daly to himself; "and if he
don't like it he may do the other thing. I wouldn't carry on with this game for all he's worth,
and that I believe is not much." He had intended to go direct to Dunmore House from the Kellys,
and to have seen Barry, but he would have had to stop for dinner if he had done so; and though,
generally speaking, not very squeamish in his society, he did not wish to enjoy another after-dinner
tête-à-tête with him--"It's better to get him over to Tuam," thought he, "and try and make
him see rason when he's sober: nothing's too hot or too bad for him, when he's mad dhrunk afther
dinner."

Accordingly, Lynch was again summoned to Tuam, and held a second council in the attorney's
little parlour. Daly commenced by telling him that his sister had seen him, and had positively
refused to leave the inn, and that the widow and her son had both listened to the threats of
a prosecution unmoved and undismayed. Barry indulged in his usual volubility of expletives;
expressed his fixed intention of exterminating the Kellys; declared, with many asseverations,
his conviction that his sister was a lunatic; swore, by everything under, in, and above the
earth, that he would have her shut up in the Lunatic Asylum in Ballinasloe, in the teeth of
the Lord Chancellor and all the other lawyers in Ireland; cursed the shades of his father,
deeply and copiously; assured Daly that he was only prevented from recovering his own property
by the weakness and ignorance of his legal advisers, and ended by asking the attorney's advice
as to his future conduct.

"What the d----l, then, am I to do with the confounded ideot?" said he.

"If you'll take my advice, you'll do nothing."

"What, and let her marry and have that young blackguard brought up to Dunmore under my very nose?"

"I'm very much afraid, Mr Lynch, if you wish to be quit of Martin Kelly, it is you must lave
Dunmore. You may be shure he won't."

"Oh, as for that, I've nothing to tie me to Dunmore. I hate the place; I never meant to live
there. If I only saw my sister properly taken care of, and that it was put out of her power
to throw herself away, I should leave it at once."

"Between you and me, Mr Lynch, she will be taken care of; and as for throwing herself away,
she must judge of that herself. Take my word for it, the best thing for you to do is to come
to terms with Martin Kelly, and to sell out your property in Dunmore. You'll make much better
terms before marriage than you would afther, it stands to rason."

Barry was half standing, and half sitting on the small parlour table, and there he remained
for a few minutes, meditating on Daly's most unpleasant proposal. It was a hard pill for him
to swallow, and he couldn't get it down without some convulsive grimaces. He bit his under
lip, till the blood came through it, and at last said,

"Why, you've taken this thing up, Daly, as if you were to be paid by the Kellys instead of
by me! I can't understand it, confound me if I can!"

Daly turned very red at the insinuation. He was within an ace of seizing Lynch by the collar,
and expelling him in a summary way from his premises, a feat which he was able to perform;
and willing also, for he was sick of his client; but he thought of it a second time, and restrained
himself.

"Mr Lynch," he said, after a moment or two, "that's the second time you've made an observation
of that kind to me; and I'll tell you what; if your business was the best in the county, instead
of being as bad a case as was ever put into a lawyer's hands, I wouldn't stand it from you.
If you think you can let out your passion against me, as you do against your own people, you'll
find your mistake out very soon; so you'd betther mind what you're saying."

"Why, what the devil did I say?" said Lynch, half abashed.

"I'll not repeat it--and you hadn't betther, either. And now, do you choose to hear my professional
advice, and behave to me as you ought and shall do? or will you go out of this and look out
for another attorney? To tell you the truth, I'd jist as lieve you'd take your business to
some one else."

Barry's brow grew very black, and he looked at Daly as though he would much like to insult
him again if he dared. But he did not dare. He had no one else to look to for advice or support;
he had utterly estranged from him his father's lawyer; and though he suspected that Daly was
not true to him, he felt that he could not break with him. He was obliged, therefore, to swallow
his wrath, though it choked him, and to mutter something in the shape of an apology.

It was a mutter: Daly heard something about its being only a joke, and not expecting to be
taken up so d---- sharp; and, accepting these sounds as an amende honorable [32], again renewed
his functions as attorney.

     [FOOTNOTE 32: amende honorable--(French) apology]

"Will you authorise me to see Martin Kelly, and to treat with him? You'll find it the cheapest
thing you can do; and, more than that, it'll be what nobody can blame you for."

"How treat with him?--I owe him nothing--I don't see what I've got to treat with him about.
Am I to offer him half the property on condition he'll consent to marry my sister? Is that
what you mean?"

"No: that's not what I mean; but it'll come to much the same thing in the end. In the first
place, you must withdraw all opposition to Miss Lynch's marriage; indeed, you must give it
your direct sanction; and, in the next place, you must make an amicable arrangement with Martin
about the division of the property."

"What--coolly give him all he has the impudence to ask?--throw up the game altogether, and
pitch the whole stakes into his lap?--Why, Daly, you--"

"Well, Mr Lynch, finish your speech," said Daly, looking him full in the face.

Barry had been on the point of again accusing the attorney of playing false to him, but he
paused in time; he caught Daly's eye, and did not dare to finish the sentence which he had begun.

"I can't understand you, I mean," said he; "I can't understand what you're after: but go on;
may-be you're right, but I can't see, for the life of me. What am I to get by such a plan as that?"

Barry was now cowed and frightened; he had no dram-bottle by him to reassure him, and he became,
comparatively speaking, calm and subdued. Indeed, before the interview was over he fell into
a pitiably lachrymose tone, and claimed sympathy for the many hardships he had to undergo through
the ill-treatment of his family.

"I'll try and explain to you, Mr Lynch, what you'll get by it. As far as I can understand,
your father left about eight hundred a-year between the two--that's you and your sisther; and
then there's the house and furniture. Nothing on earth can keep her out of her property, or
prevent her from marrying whom she plases. Martin Kelly, who is an honest fellow, though sharp
enough, has set his eye on her, and before many weeks you'll find he'll make her his wife.
Undher these circumstances, wouldn't he be the best tenant you could find for Dunmore? You're
not fond of the place, and will be still less so when he's your brother-in-law. Lave it altogether,
Mr Lynch; give him a laise of the whole concern, and if you'll do that now at once, take my
word for it you'll get more out of Dunmore than iver you will by staying here, and fighting
the matther out."

"But about the debts, Daly?"

"Why, I suppose the fact is, the debts are all your own, eh?"

"Well--suppose they are?"

"Exactly so: personal debts of your own. Why, when you've made some final arrangement about
the property, you must make some other arrangement with your creditors. But that's quite a
separate affair; you don't expect Martin Kelly to pay your debts, I suppose?"

"But I might get a sum of money for the good-will, mightn't I?"

"I don't think Martin's able to put a large sum down. I'll tell you what I think you might
ask; and what I think he would give, to get your good-will and consent to the match, and to
prevent any further difficulty. I think he'd become your tenant, for the whole of your share,
at a rent of five-hundred a year; and maybe he'd give you three hundred pounds for the furniture
and stock, and things about the place. If so, you should give him a laise of three lives."

There was a good deal in this proposition that was pleasing to Barry's mind: five hundred a-year
without any trouble in collecting it; the power of living abroad in the unrestrained indulgence
of hotels and billiard rooms; the probable chance of being able to retain his income and bilk
his creditors; the prospect of shaking off from himself the consequences of a connection with
the Kellys, and being for ever rid of Dunmore encumbrances. These things all opened before
his eyes a vista of future, idle, uncontrolled enjoyment, just suited to his taste, and strongly
tempted him at once to close with Daly's offer. But still, he could hardly bring himself to
consent to be vanquished by his own sister; it was wormwood to him to think that after all
she should be left to the undisturbed enjoyment of her father's legacy. He had been brow-beaten
by the widow, insulted by young Kelly, cowed and silenced by the attorney whom he had intended
to patronise and convert into a creature of his own: he could however have borne and put up
with all this, if he could only have got his will of his sister; but to give up to her, who
had been his slave all his life--to own, at last, that he had no power over her, whom he had
always looked upon as so abject, so mean a thing; to give in, of his own accord, to the robbery
which had been committed on him by his own father; and to do this, while he felt convinced
as he still did, that a sufficiently unscrupulous attorney could save him from such cruel disgrace
and loss, was a trial to which he could hardly bring himself to submit, crushed and tamed as
he was.

He still sat on the edge of the parlour table, and there he remained mute, balancing the pros
and cons of Daly's plan. Daly waited a minute or two for his answer, and, finding that he said
nothing, left him alone for a time, to make up his mind, telling him that he would return in
about a quarter of an hour. Barry never moved from his position; it was an important question
he had to settle, and so he felt it, for he gave up to the subject his undivided attention.
Since his boyhood he had looked forward to a life of ease, pleasure, and licence, and had longed
for his father's death that he might enjoy it. It seemed now within his reach; for his means,
though reduced, would still be sufficient for sensual gratification. But, idle, unprincipled,
brutal, castaway wretch as Barry was, he still felt the degradation of inaction, when he had
such stimulating motives to energy as unsatisfied rapacity and hatred for his sister: ignorant
as he was of the meaning of the word right, he tried to persuade himself that it would be wrong
in him to yield.

Could he only pluck up sufficient courage to speak his mind to Daly, and frighten him into
compliance with his wishes, he still felt that he might be successful--that he might, by some
legal tactics, at any rate obtain for himself the management of his sister's property. But
this he could not do: he felt that Daly was his master; and though he still thought that he
might have triumphed had he come sufficiently prepared, that is, with a considerable quantum
of spirits inside him, he knew himself well enough to be aware that he could do nothing without
this assistance; and, alas, he could not obtain it there. He had great reliance in the efficacy
of whiskey; he would trust much to a large dose of port wine; but with brandy he considered
himself invincible.

He sat biting his lip, trying to think, trying to make up his mind, trying to gain sufficient
self-composure to finish his interview with Daly with some appearance of resolution and self-confidence,
but it was in vain; when the attorney returned, his face still plainly showed that he was utterly
unresolved, utterly unable to resolve on anything.

"Well, Mr Lynch," said Daly, "will you let me spake to Kelly about this, or would you rather
sleep on the matther?"

Barry gave a long sigh--"Wouldn't he give six hundred, Daly? he'd still have two hundred clear,
and think what that'd be for a fellow like him!"

"You must ask him for it yourself then; I'll not propose to him any such thing. Upon my soul,
he'll be a great fool to give the five hundred, because he's no occasion to meddle with you
in the matther at all, at all. But still I think he may give it; but as for asking for more--at
any rate I won't do it; you can do what you like, yourself."

"And am I to sell the furniture, and everything--horses, cattle, and everything about the place--for
three hundred pounds?"

"Not unless you like it, you ain't, Mr Lynch; but I'll tell you this--if you can do so, and
do do so, it'll be the best bargain you ever made:--mind, one-half of it all belongs to your
sisther."

Barry muttered an oath through his ground teeth; he would have liked to scratch the ashes of
his father from their resting-place, and wreak his vengeance on them, whenever this degrading
fact was named to him.

"But I want the money, Daly," said he: "I couldn't get afloat unless I had more than that:
I couldn't pay your bill, you know, unless I got a higher figure down than that. Come, Daly,
you must do something for me; you must do something, you know, to earn the fees," and he tried
to look facetious, by giving a wretched ghastly grin.

"My bill won't be a long one, Mr Lynch, and you may be shure I'm trying to make it as short
as I can. And as for earning it, whatever you may think, I can assure you I shall never have
got money harder. I've now given you my best advice; if your mind's not yet made up, perhaps
you'll have the goodness to let me hear from you when it is?" and Daly walked from the fire
towards the door, and placed his hand upon the handle of it.

This was a hint which Barry couldn't misunderstand. "Well, I'll write to you," he said, and
passed through the door. He felt, however, that it was useless to attempt to trust himself
to his own judgment, and he turned back, as Daly passed into his office--"Daly," he said, "step
out one minute: I won't keep you a second." The attorney unwillingly lifted up the counter,
and came out to him. "Manage it your own way," said he; "do whatever you think best; but you
must see that I've been badly used--infernally cruelly treated, and you ought to do the best
you can for me. Here am I, giving away, as I may say, my own property to a young shopkeeper,
and upon my soul you ought to make him pay something for it; upon my soul you ought, for it's
only fair!"

"I've tould you, Mr Lynch, what I'll propose to Martin Kelly; if you don't think the terms
fair, you can propose any others yourself; or you're at liberty to employ any other agent you
please."

Barry sighed again, but he yielded. He felt broken-hearted, and unhappy, and he longed to quit
a country so distasteful to him, and relatives and neighbours so ungrateful; he longed in his
heart for the sweet, easy haunts of Boulogne, which he had never known, but of which he had
heard many a glowing description from congenial spirits whom he knew. He had heard enough of
the ways and means of many a leading star in that Elysium, to be aware that, with five hundred
a-year, unembarrassed and punctually paid, he might shine as a prince indeed. He would go at
once to that happy foreign shore, where the memory of no father would follow him, where the
presence of no sister would degrade and irritate him, where billiard-tables were rife, and
brandy cheap; where virtue was easy, and restraint unnecessary; where no duties would harass
him, no tenants upbraid him, no duns persecute him. There, carefully guarding himself against
the schemes of those less fortunate followers of pleasure among whom he would be thrown in
his social hours, he would convert every shilling of his income to some purpose of self-enjoyment,
and live a life of luxurious abandonment. And he need not be altogether idle, he reflected
within himself afterwards, as he was riding home: he felt that he was possessed of sufficient
energy and talent to make himself perfectly master of a pack of cards, to be a proficient over
a billiard-table, and even to get the upper hand of a box of dice. With such pursuits left
to him, he might yet live to be talked of, feared, and wealthy; and Barry's utmost ambition
would have carried him no further.

As I said before, he yielded to the attorney, and commissioned him fully to treat with Martin
Kelly in the manner proposed by himself. Martin was to give him five hundred a-year for his
share of the property, and three hundred pounds for the furniture, &c.; and Barry was to give
his sister his written and unconditional assent to her marriage; was to sign any document which
might be necessary as to her settlement, and was then to leave Dunmore for ever. Daly made
him write an authority for making such a proposal, by which he bound himself to the terms,
should they be acceded to by the other party.

"But you must bear in mind," added Daly, as his client for the second time turned from the
door, "that I don't guarantee that Martin Kelly will accept these terms: it's very likely he
may be sharp enough to know that he can manage as well without you as he can with you. You'll
remember that, Mr Lynch."

"I will--I will, Daly; but look here--if he bites freely--and I think he will, and if you find
you could get as much as a thousand out of him, or even eight hundred, you shall have one hundred
clear for yourself."

This was Barry's last piece of diplomacy for that day. Daly vouchsafed him no answer, but returned
into his office, and Barry mounted his horse, and returned home not altogether ill-pleased
with his prospects, but still regretting that he should have gone about so serious a piece
of business, so utterly unprepared.

These regrets rose stronger, when his after-dinner courage returned to him as he sate solitary
over his fire. "I should have had him here," said he to himself, "and not gone to that confounded
cold hole of his. After all, there's no place for a cock to fight on like his own dunghill;
and there's nothing able to carry a fellow well through a tough bit of jobation [33] with a
lawyer like a stiff tumbler of brandy punch. It'd have been worth a couple of hundred to me,
to have had him out here--impertinent puppy! Well, devil a halfpenny I'll pay him!" This thought
was consolatory, and he began again to think of Boulogne.

     [FOOTNOTE 33: jobation--a tedious session; scolding]

XXI.  LORD BALLINDINE AT HOME

Two days after the last recorded interview between Lord Ballindine and his friend, Dot Blake,
the former found himself once more sitting down to dinner with his mother and sisters, the
Honourable Mrs O'Kelly and the Honourable Misses O'Kelly; at least such were the titular dignities
conferred on them in County Mayo, though I believe, strictly speaking, the young ladies had
no claim to the appellation.

Mrs O'Kelly was a very small woman, with no particularly developed character, and perhaps of
no very general utility. She was fond of her daughters, and more than fond of her son, partly
because he was so tall and so handsome, and partly because he was the lord, the head of the
family, and the owner of the house. She was, on the whole, a good-natured person, though perhaps
her temper was a little soured by her husband having, very unfairly, died before he had given
her a right to call herself Lady Ballindine. She was naturally shy and reserved, and the seclusion
of O'Kelly's Court did not tend to make her less so; but she felt that the position and rank
of her son required her to be dignified; and consequently, when in society, she somewhat ridiculously
aggravated her natural timidity with an assumed rigidity of demeanour. She was, however, a
good woman, striving, with small means, to do the best for her family; prudent and self-denying,
and very diligent in looking after the house servants.

Her two daughters had been, at the instance of their grandfather, the courtier, christened
Augusta and Sophia, after the two Princesses of that name, and were now called Guss and Sophy:
they were both pretty, good-natured girls--one with dark brown and the other light brown hair:
they both played the harp badly, sung tolerably, danced well, and were very fond of nice young
men. They both thought Kelly's Court rather dull; but then they had known nothing better since
they had grown up, and there were some tolerably nice people not very far off, whom they occasionally
saw: there were the Dillons, of Ballyhaunis, who had three thousand a-year, and spent six;
they were really a delightful family--three daughters and four sons, all unmarried, and up
to anything: the sons all hunted, shot, danced, and did everything that they ought to do--at
least in the eyes of young ladies; though some of their more coldly prudent acquaintances expressed
an opinion that it would be as well if the three younger would think of doing something for
themselves; but they looked so manly and handsome when they breakfasted at Kelly's Court on
a hunt morning, with their bright tops, red coats, and hunting-caps, that Guss and Sophy, and
a great many others, thought it would be a shame to interrupt them in their career. And then,
Ballyhaunis was only eight miles from Kelly's Court; though they were Irish miles, it is true,
and the road was not patronised by the Grand Jury; but the distance was only eight miles, and
there were always beds for them when they went to dinner at Peter Dillon's. Then there were
the Blakes of Castletown. To be sure they could give no parties, for they were both unmarried;
but they were none the worse for that, and they had plenty of horses, and went out everywhere.
And the Blakes of Morristown; they also were very nice people; only unfortunately, old Blake
was always on his keeping, and couldn't show himself out of doors except on Sundays, for fear
of the bailiffs. And the Browns of Mount Dillon, and the Browns of Castle Brown; and General
Bourke of Creamstown. All these families lived within fifteen or sixteen miles of Kelly's Court,
and prevented the O'Kellys from feeling themselves quite isolated from the social world. Their
nearest neighbours, however, were the Armstrongs, and of them they saw a great deal.

The Reverend Joseph Armstrong was rector of Ballindine, and Mrs O'Kelly was his parishioner,
and the only Protestant one he had; and, as Mr Armstrong did not like to see his church quite
deserted, and as Mrs O'Kelly was, as she flattered herself, a very fervent Protestant, they
were all in all to each other.

Ballindine was not a good living, and Mr Armstrong had a very large family; he was, therefore,
a poor man. His children were helpless, uneducated, and improvident; his wife was nearly worn
out with the labours of bringing them forth and afterwards catering for them; and a great portion
of his own life was taken up in a hard battle with tradesmen and tithe-payers, creditors, and
debtors. Yet, in spite of the insufficiency of his two hundred a-year to meet all or half his
wants, Mr Armstrong was not an unhappy man. At any moment of social enjoyment he forgot all
his cares and poverty, and was always the first to laugh, and the last to cease to do so. He
never refused an invitation to dinner, and if he did not entertain many in his own house, it
was his fortune, and not his heart, that prevented him from doing so. He could hardly be called
a good clergyman, and yet his remissness was not so much his own fault as that of circumstances.
How could a Protestant rector be a good parish clergyman, with but one old lady and her daughters,
for the exercise of his clerical energies and talents? He constantly lauded the zeal of St.
Paul for proselytism; but, as he himself once observed, even St. Paul had never had to deal
with the obstinacy of an Irish Roman Catholic. He often regretted the want of work, and grieved
that his profession, as far as he saw and had been instructed, required nothing of him but
a short service on every Sunday morning, and the celebration of the Eucharist four times a-year;
but such were the facts; and the idleness which this want of work engendered, and the habits
which his poverty induced, had given him a character as a clergyman, very different from that
which the high feelings and strict principles which animated him at his ordination would have
seemed to ensure. He was, in fact, a loose, slovenly man, somewhat too fond of his tumbler
of punch; a little lax, perhaps, as to clerical discipline, but very staunch as to doctrine.
He possessed no industry or energy of any kind; but he was good-natured and charitable, lived
on friendly terms with all his neighbours, and was intimate with every one that dwelt within
ten miles of him, priest and parson, lord and commoner.

