The disorders of the body may disorder the whole range of our moral perceptions, and prepare
the way for an outburst of the most evil passions. A man whose constitution is ruined by a
course of dissipation is more easily led to extremes than one who has kept his body as it should
be kept. This is, indeed, the horrible plan of those who destroy our youths, and that father
of robbers must have known man well, who said, "We must destroy both body and soul." Catiline
was a profligate before he became a conspirator, and Doria greatly erred when he thought he
had no cause to fear a voluptuary like Fiesco. On the whole, it is very often remarked that
an evil spirit dwells in a sick body.

In diseases this sympathy is still more striking. All severe illnesses, especially those of
malignant nature and arising from the economy of the abdominal regions, announce themselves,
more or less, by a strange revolution in the character. Even while the disease is still silently
stealing through the hidden corners of our mechanism, and undermining the strength of nerve,
the mind begins to anticipate by dark forebodings the fall of her companion. This is a main
element in that condition which a great physician described in a masterly manner under the
name of "Horrores." Hence their moroseness of disposition, which none can account for, their
wavering fancies and inclinations, their disgust at what used to give them pleasure. The amiable
man grows quarrelsome, the merry man cross, and he who used to lose himself, and gladly, in
the bustle of the world, flies the face of man and retires into a gloomy melancholy. But underneath
this treacherous repose the enemy is making ready for a deadly onslaught. The universal disturbance
of the entire mechanism, when the disease once breaks forth, is the most speaking proof of
the wonderful dependence of the soul on the body. The feeling, springing from a thousand painful
sensations, of the utter ruin of the organism, brings about a frightful mental confusion. The
most horrible ideas and fancies rise from their graves. The villain whom nothing could move
yields under the dominant power of mere animal terror. Winchester, in dying, yells in the anguish
of despair. The soul is under a terrible necessity, it would seem, of snatching at whatever
will drag it deeper into darkness, and rejects with obstinate madness every ray of comfort.
The string, the tone of pain is in the ascendant, and just as the spiritual misery rose in
the bodily disorder, so now it turns and renders the disorder more universal and more intense.

S 20.--Limitations of the foregoing.

But there are daily examples of sufferers who courageously lift themselves above bodily ills:
of dying men who, amidst the distressful struggles of the frame, ask, "Where is thy sting,
O death?" Should not wisdom, one might urge, avail to combat the blind terrors of the organic
nature? Nay, much more than wisdom, should religion have so little power to protect her friends
against the assaults springing from the dust? Or, what is the same thing, does it not depend
upon the preceding condition of the soul, as to how she accepts the alterations of the processes
of life?

Now, this is an irrefragable truth. Philosophy, and still more a mind courageous and elevated
by religion, are capable of completely weakening the influence of the animal sensations which
assault the soul of one in pain, and able, as it were, to withdraw it from all coherence with
the material. The thought of God, which is interwoven with death, as with all the universe,
the harmony of past life, the anticipation of an ever-happy future, spread a bright light over
all its ideas; while night is drawn round the soul of him who departs in folly and in unbelief.

It is precisely this unwonted cheerfulness on the part of those who are mortally sick which
has often a physical reason at the basis, and which has the most express significance for the
practical physician. It is often found in conjunction with the most fatal symptoms of Hippocrates,
and without being attributable to any bygone crisis. Such a cheerfulness is of bad import.
The nerves, which during the height of the fever have been most sharply assailed, have now
lost sensation; the inflamed members, it is well known, cease to smart as soon as they are
destroyed; but it would be a hapless thought to rejoice that the time of burning pain were
passed and gone. Stimulus fails before the dead nerves, and a deathly indolence belies future
healing. The soul finds herself under the illusion of a pleasant sensation, because she is
free from a long-enduring painful one. She is free from pain, not because the tone of her instrument
is restored, but because she no more experiences the discord. Sympathy ceases as soon as the
connection is lost.

S 21.--Further Aspects of the Connection.

If I might now begin to go deeper--if I might speak of delirium, of slumber, of stupor, of
epilepsy and catalepsy, and such like, wherein the free and rational spirit is subjected to
the despotism of the body--if I might enlarge especially on the wide field of hysteria and
hypochondria-- if it were allowed me to speak of temperaments, idiosyncrasies, and constitutions,
which for physicians and philosophers are an abyss--in one word, should I attempt to demonstrate
truth of the foregoing from the bed of sickness, which is ever a chief school of psychology--my
matter would be extended to an endless length. We have, it seems to me, enough to prove that
the animal nature is throughout mingled with the spiritual, and that this combination is perfection.

PHYSICAL PHENOMENA EXPRESS THE EMOTIONS OF THE MIND.

S 22.--Physiognomy of Sensations.

It is just this close correspondence between the two natures which is the basis of the whole
science of physiognomy. By means of this nervous connection (which, as we have seen, lies at
the bottom of the communication of feelings) the most secret movements of the soul are revealed
on the exterior of the body, and passion penetrates even through the veil of the hypocrite.
Each passion has its specific expressions, its peculiar dialect, so to speak, by which one
knows it. And, indeed, it is an admirable law of Supreme Wisdom, that every passion which is
noble and generous beautifies the body, while those that are mean and hateful distort it into
animal forms. The more the mind departs from the likeness of the Deity, the nearer does the
outward form seem to approach the animal, and always that animal which has a kindred proclivity.
Thus, the mild expression of the philanthropist attracts the needy, whom the insolent look
of the angry man repels. This is an indispensable guide in social life. It is astonishing what
an accordance bodily appearance has with the passions; heroism and fearlessness pour life and
strength through the veins and muscles, the eyes sparkle, the breast heaves, all the limbs
arm themselves alike for combat--the man has the appearance of a war-horse. Fright and fear
extinguish the fire in the eyes, the limbs sink powerless and heavy, the marrow in the bones
seems frozen, the blood falls back on the heart like a stone, a general weakness cripples the
powers of life.

A great, bold, lofty thought compels us to stand on tiptoe, to hold up the head, to expand
the mouth and nose. The feeling of eternity, the outlook on a wide open horizon, the sea, etc.,
make us stretch out our arms--we would merge ourselves into the eternal: with the mountains,
we would grow towards the heavens, rush thither on storms and waves: yawning abysses throw
us down in giddiness. In like manner, hate is expressed in the body by a repelling force; while,
on the contrary, in every pressure of the hand, in every embrace, our body will merge into
that of our friend, in the same manner as the souls are in harmonious combination. Pride makes
the body erect as the soul rises; pettiness bends the head, the limbs hang down; servile fear
is expressed in the cringing walk; the thought of pain distorts our face, if pleasurable aspects
spread a grace over the whole body; anger, on the other hand, will break through every strong
opposing cord, and need will almost overcome the impossible. I would now ask through what mechanism
it happens that exactly these movements result from these feelings, that just these organs
are affected by these passions? Might I not just as well want to know why a certain wounding
of the ligament should stiffen the lower jaw?

If the passion which sympathetically awakened these movements of the frame be often renewed,
if this sensation of soul become habitual, then these movements of the body will become so
also. If this matured passion be of a lasting character, then these constitutional features
of the frame become deeply engraved: they become, if I may borrow the pathologist's word, "deuteropathetic,"
and are at last organic. Thus, at last, the firm perennial physiognomy of man is formed, so
that it is almost easier afterwards to change the soul than the form. In this sense, one may
also say, without being a "Stahlian," that the soul forms the body; and perhaps the earliest
years of youth decide the features of a man for life, as they certainly are the foundation
of his moral character. An inert and weak soul, which never overflows in passions, has no physiognomy
at all; and want of expression is the leading characteristic of the countenance of the imbecile.
The original features which nature gave him continue unaltered; the face is smooth, for no
soul has played upon it; the eyebrows retain a perfect arch, for no wild passion has distorted
them; the whole form retains its roundness, for the fat reposes in its cells; the face is regular,
perhaps even beautiful, but I pity the soul of it!

A physiognomy of (perfect) organic parts, e.g., as to the form and size of the nose, eyes,
mouth, ears, etc., the color of the hair, the height of the neck, and such like, may perhaps
possibly be found, but certainly not very easily, however much Lavater should continue to rave
about it through ten quarto volumes. He who would reduce to order the capricious play of nature,
and classify the forms which she has punished like a stepmother, or endowed as a mother, would
venture more than Linnaeus, and should be very careful lest he become one with the original
presented to him, through its monstrous sportive variety.

Yet one more kind of sympathy deserves to be noticed, since it is of great importance in physiology.
I mean the sympathy of certain sensations for the organs from which they sprang. A certain
cramp in the stomach causes a feeling of disgust; the reproduction of this sensation brings
back the cramp. How is this?

S 23.--The Remains of the Animal Nature is also a Source of Perfection.

Although the animal part of man preserves for him the many great advantages of which we have
already spoken, still, one may say that, in another aspect, it remains always despicable; viz.,
the soul thus depends, slave-like, on the activity of its tools; the periodical relaxation
of these prescribes to the soul an inactive pause and annihilation at periods. I mean sleep,
which, one cannot deny, robs us at least of the third part of our life. Further, our mind is
completely dependent on the laws of the body, so that the cessation of the latter puts a sudden
stop to the continuance of thoughts, even though we be on the straight, open path towards truth.
If the reason have ever so little fixed upon an idea, when the lazy matter refuses to carry
it out, the strings of the thinking organs grow weary, if they have been but slightly strained;
the body fails us where we need it most. What astonishing steps, one may infer, would man make
in the use of his powers if he could continue to think in a state of unbroken intensity! How
he would unravel every idea to its final elements; how he would trace every appearance to its
most hidden sources, if he could keep them uninterruptedly before his mind! But, alas! it is
not thus. Why is it not so?

S 24.--Necessity for Relaxation.

The following will lead us on the track of truth:--

1. Pleasant sensation was necessary to lead man to perfection, and he can only be perfect when
he feels comfortable.

2. The nature of a mortal being makes unpleasant feeling unavoidable. Evil does not shut man
out from the best world, and the worldly-wise find their perfection therein.

3. Thus pain and pleasure are necessary. It seems harder, but it is no less true.

4. Every pain, as every pleasure, grows according to its nature, and would continue to do so.

5. Every pain and every pleasure of a mixed being tend to their own dissolution.

S 25.--Explanation.

It is a well-known law of the connection between ideas that every sensation, of whatever kind,
immediately seizes another of its kind, and enlarges itself through this addition. The larger
and more manifold it becomes, so much the more does it awaken similar sensations in all directions
through the organs of thought, until, by degrees, it becomes universally predominant, and occupies
the whole soul. Consequently, every sensation grows through itself; every present condition
of the feeling power contains the root of a feeling to follow, similar, but more intense. This
is evident. Now, every mental sensation is, as we know, allied to a similar animal one; in
other words, each one is connected with more or less movement of the nerves, which take a direction
according to the measure of their strength and extension. Thus, as mental sensations grow,
must the movements in the nervous system increase also. This is no less clear. Now, pathology
teaches us that a nerve never suffers alone: and to say, "Here is a superfluity of strength,"
is as much as to say, "There is want of strength." Thus, every nervous movement grows through
itself. Now, we have remarked that the movements of the nervous system react upon the mind,
and strengthen the mental sensations;

   [Why, how one weeps when one's too weary!
           Tears, tears! why we weep,
   'Tis worth inquiry:--that we've shamed a life,
   Or lost a love, or missed a world, perhaps?
   By no means. Simply, that we've walked too far,
   Or talked too much, or felt the wind in the east, etc.
                         --Aurora Leigh.]

vice versa, the strengthened sensation of the mind increase and strengthen the motions of the
nerves. Thus we have a circle, in which sensation must always increase, and nervous movements
every moment become more powerful and universal.

Now, we know that the movements of the bodily frame which cause the feeling of pain run counter
to the harmony by which it would exist in well-being; that is, that they are diseased. But
disease cannot grow unceasingly, therefore they end in the total destruction of the frame.
In relation to pain, it is thus proved that it aims at the death of the subject.

But, the motions of the nerves under pleasant sensations being so harmonious to the continuance
of the machinery that the condition of mind which constitutes pleasure is that of the greatest
bodily well-being, should not rather, then, pleasant sensation prolong the bloom of the body
eternally? This inference is too hasty. In a certain stage of moderation, these nervous motions
are wholesome, and really a sign of health. But if they outgrow this stage, they may be the
highest activity, the highest momentary perfection; but, thus, they are excess of health, no
longer health itself.

We only call that condition of the natural motions health in which the root of similar ones
for the future lies, viz., those which confirm the perfection of succeeding motions; thus,
the destiny of continuance is essentially contained in the idea of health. Thus, for example,
the body of the most debilitated profligate attains to its greatest harmony at the moment of
excess; but it is only momentarily, and a so much deeper abatement shows sufficiently that
overstraining was not health. Therefore one may justly accept that an overstrained vigor of
physical action hastens death as much as the greatest disorder or the worst illness. Both pain
and pleasure draw us towards an unavoidable death, unless something be present which limits
their advance.

S 26.--Excellence of this Abatement.

It is just this (the limit to their growth) which the abatement of the animal nature causes.
It must be no other than this limitation of our fragile frame (that appeared to have lent to
our opponents so strong a proof against its perfection) which ameliorates all the evil consequences
that the mechanism otherwise makes unavoidable. It is exactly this sinking, this lassitude
of the organs, over which tinkers complain so much, that prevents our own strength destroying
us in a short time; that does not permit our positions to be always increasing towards our
destruction. This limitation shows each passion the period of its growth, its height and decline
(if indeed the passion does not die out in a total relaxation of the body), which leaves the
excited spirits time to resume their harmony, and the organs to recover. Hence, the highest
pitch of rapture, of fear, and of anger, are the same as weariness, weakness, or fainting.

During sleep, the vital forces restore themselves to that healthy balance which the continuance
of our being so much requires; all the cramped ideas and feelings, the overstrained actions
which have troubled us through the day, are solved in the entire relaxation of the sensorium;
the harmony of the motions of the mind are resumed, and the newly-awakened man greets the coming
day more calmly.

In relation to the arrangement of the whole, also, we cannot sufficiently admire the worth
and importance of this limitation. The arrangement necessarily causes many, who should be no
less happy, to be sacrificed to the general order and to bear the lot of oppression. Likewise,
many, whom we perhaps unjustly envy, must expend their mental and bodily strength in restless
exertion, so that the repose of the whole be preserved. The same with sick persons, the same
with unreasoning animals. Sleep seals the eye of care, takes from the prince and statesman
the heavy weight of governing; pours new force into the veins of the sick man, and rest into
his harassed soul; the daylaborer no longer hears the voice of the oppressor, and the ill-used
beast escapes from the tyranny of man. Sleep buries all cares and troubles, balances everything,
equips every one with new-born powers to bear the joys and sorrows of the next day.

S 27.--Severing of the Connection.

At length arrived at the point in the circle where the mind has fulfilled the aim of its being,
an internal, unaccountable mechanism has, at the same time, made the body incapable of being
any longer its instrument. All care for the well-being of the bodily state seems to reach but
to this epoch. It appears to me that, in the formation of our physical nature, wisdom has shown
such parsimony, that notwithstanding constant compensations, decline must always keep in the
ascendancy, so that freedom misuses the mechanism, and death is germinated in life as out of
its seed. Matter dissolves again into its last elements, which travel through the kingdom of
nature in other forms and relations, to serve other purposes. The mind continues to practise
its thinking powers in other circles, and to observe the universe from other sides.

We may truly say that it has not by any means exhausted this actual sphere, that it might have
left this sphere itself more perfect; but do we know that this sphere is lost to it? We lay
many a book aside which we do not understand, but perhaps in a few years we shall understand
it better.