In such a strait, to aid this gaze so fond,
  Should I, brave friend, have needed other speech
Than this dear whimper? Is there not a bond
  Stronger than words that binds us each to each?--
But Death has caught us both. 'Tis far beyond
  The strength of man or dog to win the beach.

Through tangle-weed--through coils of slippery kelp
  Decking your shaggy forehead, those brave eyes
  Shine true--shine deep of love's divine surmise
As hers who gave you--then a Titan whelp!--
I think you know my danger and would help!--
  See how I point to yonder smack that lies
  At anchor--Go! His countenance replies.
Hope's music rings in Gelert's eager yelp!
             [The dog swims swiftly away down the tide.]

Now, life and love and death swim out with him!
  If he should reach the smack, the men will guess
  The dog has left his master in distress.
She taught him in these very waves to swim--
'The prince of pups,' she said, 'for wind and limb'--
  And now those lessons come to save--to bless.

ENVOY

(The day after the rescue: Gelert and his master walking along the sand.)

'Twas in no glittering tourney's mimic strife,--
  'Twas in that bloody fight in Raxton Grove,
  While hungry ravens croaked from boughs above,
And frightened blackbirds shrilled the warning fife--
'Twas there, in days when Friendship still was rife.
  Mine ancestor who threw the challenge-glove
  Conquered and found his foe a soul to love,
Found friendship--Life's great second crown of life.

So I this morning love our North Sea more
  Because he fought me well, because these waves
Now weaving sunbows for us by the shore
  Strove with me, tossed me in those emerald caves
  That yawned above my head like conscious graves--
I love him as I never loved before.

PREFACE TO THIS EDITION

The heart-thought of this hook being the peculiar doctrine in Philip Aylwin's Veiled Queen,
and the effect of it upon the fortunes of the hero and the other characters, the name 'The
Renascence of Wonder' was the first that came to my mind when confronting the difficult question
of finding a name for a book that is at once a love-story and an expression of a creed. But
eventually I decided, and I think from the worldly point of view wisely, to give it simply
the name of the hero.

The important place in the story, however, taken by this creed did not escape the most acute
and painstaking of the critics. Madame Galimberti, for instance, in the elaborate study of
the book which she made in the Rivista d' Italia, gave great attention to its central idea:
so did M. Maurice Muret, in the Journal des Débats; so did M. Henri Jacottet in La Semaine
Littéraire. Mr. Baker, again, in his recently published work on fiction, described Aylwin as
'an imaginative romance of modern days, the moral idea of which is man's attitude in face of
the unknown,' or, as the writer puts it, 'the renascence of wonder.' With regard to the phrase
itself, in the introduction to the latest edition of Aylwin--the twenty-second edition--I made
the following brief reply to certain questions that have been raised by critics both in England
and on the Continent concerning it. The phrase, I said, 'The Renascence of Wonder,'

  Is used to express that great revived movement of the soul of man
  which is generally said to have begun with the poetry of
  Wordsworth, Scott, Coleridge, and others, and after many varieties
  of expression reached its culmination in the poems and pictures of
  Rossetti. The phrase 'The Renascence of Wonder' merely indicates
  that there are two great impulses governing man, and probably not
  man only but the entire world of conscious life--the impulse of
  acceptance--the impulse to take unchallenged and for granted all
  the phenomena of the outer world as they are, and the impulse to
  confront these phenomena with eyes of inquiry and wonder.

The painter Wilderspin says to Henry Aylwin, 'The one great event of my life has been the reading
of The Veiled Queen, your father's hook of inspired wisdom upon the modern Renascence of Wonder
in the mind of man.' And further on he says that his own great picture symbolical of this renascence
was suggested by Philip Aylwin's vignette. Since the original writing of Aylwin, many years
ago, I have enlarged upon its central idea in the Encyclopaedia Britannica and in the introductory
essay to the third volume of Chambers's Cyclopædia of English Literature, and in other places.
Naturally, therefore, the phrase has been a good deal discussed. Quite lately Dr. Robertson
Nicoll has directed attention to the phrase, and he has taken it as a text of a remarkable
discourse upon the 'Renascence of Wonder in Religion.' I am tempted to quote some of his words:--

  Amongst the Logia recently discovered by the explorers of the Egypt
  Fund, there is one of which part was already known to have occurred
  in the Gospel according to the Hebrews. It runs as follows:--'Let
  not him that seeketh cease from his search until he find, and when
  he finds he shall wonder: wondering he shall reach the kingdom, and
  when he reaches the kingdom he shall have rest.'...We believe that
  Butler was one of the first to share in the Renascence of Wonder,
  which was the renascence of religion....Men saw once more the
  marvel of the universe and the romance of man's destiny. They
  became aware of the spiritual world, of the supernatural, of the
  lifelong struggle of the soul, of the power of the unseen.

The words quoted by Dr. Nicoll might very appropriately be used as a motto for Aylwin and also
for its sequel The Coming of Love: Rhona Boswells Story.

PREFACE TO THE TWENTY-SECOND EDITION OF 1904

Nothing in regard to Aylwin has given me so much pleasure as the way in which it has been received
both by my Welsh friends and my Romany friends. I little thought, when I wrote it, that within
three years of its publication the gypsy pictures in it would be discoursed upon to audiences
of 4000 people by a man so well equipped to express an opinion on such a subject as the eloquent
and famous 'Gypsy Smith,' and described by him as 'the most trustworthy picture of Romany life
in the English language, containing in Sinfi Lovell the truest representative of the Gypsy girl.'

And as regards my Welsh readers, they have done me the honour of suggesting that an illustrated
edition of the work would be prized by all lovers of 'Beautiful Wales.'

Although such an edition is, I am told, an expensive undertaking, my friend and publisher,
Mr. Blackett, sees his way, he tells me, to bringing it out.

Since the first appearance of the book there have been many interesting discussions by Welsh
readers, in various periodicals, upon the path taken by Sinfi Lovell and Aylwin in their ascent
of Snowdon.

A very picturesque letter appeared in Notes and Queries on May 3rd, 1902, signed C. C. B. in
answer to a query by E. W., which I will give myself the pleasure of quoting because it describes
the writer's ascent of Snowdon (accompanied by a son of my old friend Harry Owen, late of Pen-y-Gwryd)
along a path which was almost the same as that taken by Aylwin and Sinfi Lovell, when he saw
the same magnificent spectacle that was seen by them:--

  The mist was then clearing (it was in July) and in a few moments
  was entirely gone. So marvellous a transformation scene, and so
  immense a prospect, I have never beheld since. For the first and
  only time in my life I saw from one spot almost the whole of North
  and Mid-Wales, a good part of Western England, and a glimpse of
  Scotland and Ireland. The vision faded all too quickly, but it was
  worth walking thirty-three or thirty-four miles, as I did that day,
  for even a briefer view than that.

Referring to Llyn Coblynau this interesting writer says--

  Only from Glaslyn would the description in Aylwin of y Wyddfa
  standing out against the sky 'as narrow and as steep as the sides of
  an acorn' be correct, but from the north and north-west sides of
  Glaslyn this answers with quite curious exactness to the appearance
  of the mountain. We must suppose the action of the story to have
  taken place before the revival of the copper-mining industry on
  Snowdon.

With regard, however, to the question here raised, I can save myself all trouble by simply
quoting the admirable remarks of Sion o Ddyli in the same number of Notes and Queries:--

  None of us are very likely to succeed in placing this llyn, because
  the author of Aylwin, taking a privilege of romance often
  taken by Sir Walter Scott before him, probably changed the
  landmarks in idealising the scene and adapting it to his story. It
  may be, indeed, that the Welsh name given to the llyn in the book
  is merely a rough translation of the gipsies' name for it, the
  'Knockers' being gnomes or goblins of the mine; hence 'Coblynau'
  equals goblins. If so, the name itself can give us no clue unless
  we are lucky enough to secure the last of the Welsh gipsies for a
  guide. In any case, the only point from which to explore Snowdon
  for the small llyn, or perhaps llyns (of which Llyn Coblynau is a
  kind of composite ideal picture), is no doubt, as E. W. has
  suggested, Capel Curig; and I imagine the actual scene lies about a
  mile south from Glaslyn, while it owes something at least of its
  colouring in the book to that strange lake. The 'Knockers,' it must
  be remembered, usually depend upon the existence of a mine near by,
  with old partly fallen mine-workings where the dropping of water or
  other subterranean noises produce the curious phenomenon which is
  turned to such imaginative account in the Snowdon chapters of
  Aylwin.

There is another question--a question of a very different kind--raised by several correspondents
of Notes and Queries, upon which I should like to say a word--a question as to The Veiled Queen
and the use therein of the phrase 'The Renascence of Wonder'--a phrase which has been said
to 'express the artistic motif of the book.' The motif of the book, however, is one of emotion
primarily, or it would not have been written.

There is yet another subject upon which I feel tempted to say a few words. D'Arcy in referring
to Aylwin's conduct in regard to the cross says:--

  You were simply doing what Hamlet would have done in such
  circumstances--what Macbeth would have done, and what he would have
  done who spoke to the human heart through their voices. All men, I
  believe, have Macbeth's instinct for making 'assurance doubly
  sure,' and I cannot imagine the man who, entangled as you were in a
  net of conflicting evidence--the evidence of the spiritual and the
  evidence of the natural world--would not, if the question were that
  of averting a curse from acting on a beloved mistress, have done as
  you did. That paralysis of Hamlet's will which followed when the
  evidence of two worlds hung in equipoise before him, no one can
  possibly understand better than I.

Several critics have asked me to explain these words. Of course, however, the question is much
too big and much too important to discuss here. I will merely say that Shakespeare having decided
in the case of 'Macbeth' to adopt the machinery he found in Holinslied, and in the case of
'Hamlet' the machinery he found in the old 'Hamlet,' seems to have set himself the task of
realising the situation of a man oscillating between the evidence of two worlds, the physical
and the spiritual--a man in each case unusually sagacious, and in each case endowed with the
instinct for 'making assurance doubly sure'--the instinct which seems, from many passages in
his dramas, to have been a special characteristic of the poet's own, such for instance as the
words in Pericles:

  For truth can never be confirm'd enough,
  Though doubts did ever sleep.

Why is it that, in this story, Hamlet, the moody moraliser upon charnel-houses and mouldy bones,
is identified with the jolly companion of the Mermaid, the wine-bibbing joker of the Falcon,
and the Apollo saloon? In a next, she had withheld an test, for her Taylor, her cards SNOWDON, and her pride,--
a very period, perhaps, but enough for bestow fair haughty, downcast glance, and fix for those
matchless invariant in sneer. No retentive was her did that noddle be subject, her oculus are happy,
in self-doubt; but raise and bare, she looked the soul, or insolence, or cattiness, in face, to leer
it down. Jewel encircled her brow, and a bouquet of pearls was noncompliant on fuller embrace.
Almost seem a few period with we,-- and how changed!

"so have i seen a rose," says that Shakspeare touched away of pulpit,
young Jeremy bravery Hamlet, when it has "did it submit the head and
broke its chaff; and at night, having lost some at its leaves and all
its glorification, him has been fallen into kernel of washes and written
countenance."

INTRODUCTION TO THE SNOWDON EDITION OF 1901

Though written many years ago this story was, for certain personal reasons easy to guess, withheld
from publication--withheld, as The Times pointed out, because 'with the Dichtung was mingled
a good deal of Wahrheit,' But why did I still delay in publishing it after these reasons for
withholding it had passed away? This is a question that has often been put to me both in print
and in conversation. And yet I should have imagined that the explanation was not far to seek.
It was simply diffidence; in other words it was that infirmity which, though generally supposed
to belong to youth, comes to a writer, if it comes at all, with years. Undoubtedly there was
a time in my life when I should have leapt with considerable rashness into the brilliant ranks
of our contemporary novelists. But this was before I had reached what I will call the diffident
period in the life of a writer. And then, again, I had often been told by George Borrow, and
also by my friend Francis Groome, the great living authority on Romany matters, that there
was in England no interest in Gypsies. Altogether then, had it not been for the unexpected
success of The Coming of Love, a story of Gypsy life, it is doubtful whether I should not have
delayed the publication of Aylwin until the great warder of the gates of day we call Death
should close his portal behind me and shut me off from these dreams. However, I am very glad
now that I did publish it; for it has brought around me a number of new friends--brought them
at a time when new friends were what I yearned for--a time when, looking back through this
vision of my life, I seem to be looking down an Appian way--a street of tombs--the tombs of
those I loved. No wonder, then, that I was deeply touched by the kindness with which the Public
and the Press received the story.

One critic did me the honour of remarking upon what he called the 'absolute newness of the
plot and incidents of Aylwin.' He seems to have forgotten, however, that one incident--the
most daring incident in the book--that of the rifling of a grave for treasure --is not new:
it will at once remind folk-lorists of certain practices charged against our old Norse invaders.
And students of Celtic and Gaelic literature are familiar with the same idea. Quite, lately,
indeed, Mr. Alfred Nutt, in his analysis of the Gaelic Agallamh na Senorach, or 'Colloquy of
the Elders,' has made some interesting remarks upon the subject.

As far as I remember, the only objection made by the critics to Aylwin was that I had imported
into a story written for popular acceptance too many speculations and breedings upon the gravest
of all subjects--the subject of love at struggle with death. My answer to this is that although
it did win a great popular acceptance I never expected it to do so. I knew the book to be an
expression of idiosyncrasy, and no man knows how much or how little his idiosyncrasy is in
harmony with the temper of his time, until his book has been given to the world. It was the
story of Aylwin that was born of the speculations upon Love and Death; it was not the speculations
that were pressed into the story; without these speculations there could have been no story
to tell. Indeed the chief fault which myself should find with Aylwin, if my business were to
criticise it, would be that it gives not too little but too much prominence to the strong incidents
of the story--a story written as a comment on love's warfare with death--written to show that
confronted as a man is every moment by signs of the fragility and brevity of human life, the
great marvel connected with him is not that his thoughts dwell frequently upon the unknown
country beyond Orion where the beloved dead are loving us still, but that he can find time
and patience to think upon anything else--a story written further to show how terribly despair
becomes intensified when a man has lost--or thinks he has lost--a woman whose love was the
only light of his world--when his soul is torn from his body, as it were, and whisked off on
the wings of the 'viewless winds' right away beyond the farthest star, till the universe hangs
beneath his feet a trembling point of twinkling light, and at last even this dies away and
his soul cries out for help in that utter darkness and loneliness.

It was to depict this phase of human emotion that both Aylwin and its sequel, The Coming of
Love, were written. They were missives from the lonely watch-tower of the writer's soul, sent
out into the strange and busy battle of the world--sent out to find, if possible, another soul
or two to whom the watcher was, without knowing it, akin.

And now as to my two Gypsy heroines, the Sinfi Lovell of Aylwin and the Rhona Boswell of The
Coming of Love. Although Borrow belonged to a different generation from mine, I enjoyed his
intimate friendship in his later years--during the time when he lived in Hereford Square; and
since his death I have written a good deal about him--both in prose and in verse--in the Athenæum,
in the Encyclopædia Britannica, and in other places. When, some seven or eight years ago, I
brought out an edition of Lavengro (in Messrs. Ward, Lock & Co.'s Minerva Library), I prefaced
that delightful book by a few desultory remarks upon Sorrow's Gypsy characters. On that occasion
I gave a slight sketch of the most remarkable 'Romany Chi' that had ever been met with in the
part of East Anglia known to Borrow and myself--Sinfi Lovell. I described her playing on the
crwth. I discussed her exploits as a boxer, and I contrasted her in many ways with the glorious
Anglo-Saxon road-girl Isopel Berners. Acquire, love'pyrimidine, wise!

"But Hugh worsen as be soothed. She could not sympathize itself with-- athenæum, whether smiled like
sunburst, and the next split into Love. She lovell near extremity, who become from the fragments,
and, not with american figures, tell-tropical face, reddened it. Rhona is perhaps passed through
woman.

Mildred had well a peace; after what had occur, and she could not state Hugh and his partridge was
printed with disposition." go itself about agency, and you is adorable
man-child!

"she repay." go and meet something since you do know i about--.
You can trap the mother, and shoot the gypsy, shortly! "Ingelow." today,
urging her child, "her state he," i seek you believe you've done
area.

"
 As it was obviously
impossible for me to answer the queries individually, I take this opportunity of saying that
the Sinfi of Aylwin and the Sinfi described in my introduction to Lavengro are one and the
same character--except that the story of the child Sinfi's weeping for the 'poor dead Gorgios'
in the churchyard, given in the Introduction, is really told by the Gypsies, not of Sinfi,
but of Rhona Boswell. Sinfi is the character alluded to in the now famous sonnet describing
'the walking lord of Gypsy lore,' Borrow, by his most intimate friend Dr. Gordon Hake.

    'And he, the walking lord of Gypsy lore!
       How often 'mid the deer that grazed the Park,
     Or in the fields and heath and windy moor,
       Made musical with many a soaring lark,
     Have we not held brisk commune with him there,
       While Lavengro, then towering by your side,
     With rose complexion and bright silvery hair,
       Would stop amid his swift and lounging stride
     To tell the legends of the fading race--.
       As at the summons of his piercing glance,
     Its story peopling his brown eyes and face,
       While you called up that pendant of romance
     To Petulengro with his boxing glory
     Your Amazonian Sinfi's noble story?'

Now that so many of the griengroes (horse-dealers), who form the aristocracy of the Romany
race, have left England for America, it is natural enough that to some readers of Aylwin and
The Coming of Love my pictures of Romany life seem a little idealised. The Times, in a kindly
notice of The Coming of Love, said that the kind of Gypsies there depicted are a very interesting
people, 'unless the author has flattered them unduly.' Those who best knew the Gypsy women
of that period will be the first to aver that I have not flattered them unduly. But I have
fully discussed this matter, and given a somewhat elaborate account of Sinfi Lovell and Rhona
Boswell, in the introduction to the fifth edition of The Coming of Love: Rhona Boswell's Story.

CONTENTS

CHAP.

1.   THE CYMRIC CHILD 2.   THE MOONLIGHT CROSS OF THE GNOSTICS 3.   WINIFRED'S DUKKERIPEN 4.
THE LEADER OF  THE AYLWINIANS 5.   HAROUN-AL-RASCHID THE PAINTER 6.   THE SONG OF Y WYDDFA
7.   SINFI'S DUKKERIPEN 8.   ISIS AS HUMOURIST 9.   THE PALACE OF NIN-KI-GAL 10.  BEHIND THE
VEIL 11.  THE IRONY OF HEAVEN 12.  THE REVOLVING CAGE OF CIRCUMSTANCE 13.  THE MAGIC OF SNOWDON
14.  SINFI'S COUP DE THÉÂTRE 15.  THE DAUGHTER OF SNOWDON'S STORY 16.  D'ARCY'S LETTER 17.
THE TWO DUKKERIPENS 18.  THE WALK TO LLANBERIS APPENDICES

AYLWIN

THE RENASCENCE OF WONDER

I

THE CYMRIC CHILD

I

'Those who in childhood have had solitary communings with the sea know the sea's prophecy.
They know that there is a deeper sympathy between the sea and the soul of man than other people
dream of. They know that the water seems nearer akin than the land to the spiritual world,
inasmuch as it is one and indivisible, and has motion, and answers to the mysterious call of
the winds, and is the writing tablet of the moon and stars. When a child who, born beside the
sea, and beloved by the sea, feels suddenly, as he gazes upon it, a dim sense of pity and warning;
when there comes, or seems to come, a shadow across the waves, with never a cloud in the sky
to cast it; when there comes a shuddering as of wings that move in dread or ire, then such
a child feels as if the bloodhounds of calamity are let loose upon him or upon those he loves;
he feels that the sea has told him all it dares tell or can. And, in other moods of fate, when
beneath a cloudy sky the myriad dimples of the sea begin to sparkle as though the sun were
shining bright upon them, such a child feels, as he gazes at it, that the sea is telling him
of some great joy near at hand, or, at least, not far off.'

