When the mainland was reached, the Spaniards who were already there, having heard of the cruelty
of the commander, refused to let him land. He therefore put off to sea, and was never heard
of again. Balboa then took command of the men and began immediately to explore the country.

He made a friendly alliance with an Indian chief, who presented him with gold and slaves. The
Spaniards were delighted at the sight of so much riches. They began to melt and weigh the gold,
and at last fell to quarreling desperately about the division of it.

This the Indians could not understand. They knew nothing of money, and valued the metal only
because it could be made into beautiful ornaments.

An Indian boy who had heard the dispute told the Spaniards that if they cared so much about
that yellow stuff, it would be wise for them to go to a country where there was enough of it
for all.

The Spaniards eagerly questioned him regarding this place. The boy then described a country
across the mountains and to the south, on the shores of a great sea, where the metal was so
plentiful that the natives used it for their ordinary drinking cups and bowls.

Balboa immediately started southward across the mountains in search of this rich country. On
his way he came upon a tribe of hostile Indians, who attacked him, but who fled in alarm from
the guns of the Spaniards.

Taking some Indians as guides, Balboa pushed on through the mountains, and on September 25,
1513, from one of the highest peaks, looked down upon the Pacific Ocean.

With his Spaniards he descended the mountain, and in four days reached the shore of that magnificent
body of water. Balboa waded out into it with his sword in his hand, and formally took possession
of it for the King of Spain. He called it the South Sea, because he was looking toward the
south when he first saw it; and the Pacific Ocean was known by this name for many years afterward.

On this shore he met an Indian who repeated to him the same story that the Indian boy had told
about the rich country on the border of this sea and farther to the south.

Balboa then made up his mind to find this country. Accordingly he returned to Darien, and sent
word to the Spanish king of his great discovery of the South Sea.

He then began to take his ships apart, and to send them, piece by piece, across the mountains
to the Pacific coast.

This was an enormous undertaking. The journey was a very difficult one, and hundreds of the
poor Indians who carried the burdens dropped dead from exhaustion.

At length, after long months of labor, four ships were thus carried across the mountains and
rebuilt on the Pacific coast. These were the first European vessels ever launched on the great
South Sea. Three hundred men were in readiness to go with Balboa on his voyage in search of
the rich country of the South.

A little iron and a little pitch were still needed for the ships, and Balboa delayed his departure
in order to get these articles.

The delay gave his enemies, who were jealous because of his success, time to carry out a plot
against him. They accused him of plotting to set up an independent government of his own, and
caused him to be arrested for treason. In less than twenty-four hours this brave and high-spirited
leader was tried, found guilty, and beheaded. So ended all his ambitious plans.

MAGELLAN.

One of the boldest and most determined of all the early explorers was Ferdinand Magellan, a
young Portuguese nobleman. He felt sure that somewhere on that long coast which so many explorers
had reached he would find a strait through which he would be able to pass, and which would
lead into the Indian Ocean; and so Magellan formed the idea of circumnavigating the globe.

He applied to the King of Portugal for aid; but as the Portuguese king was not willing to help
him, he went to Spain, where his plan found favor.

The Spanish king gave him a fleet of five vessels, and on September 20, 1519, he set sail for
the Canary Islands. Continuing the voyage toward Sierra Leone, the vessels were becalmed, and
for a period of three weeks they advanced only nine miles. Then a terrific storm arose, and
the sailors, who had grumbled and found fault with everything during the entire voyage, broke
into open mutiny. This mutiny Magellan quickly quelled by causing the principal offender to
be arrested and put in irons.

The voyage was then continued, and land was at last sighted on the Brazilian coast, near Pernambuco.

The fleet then proceeded down the coast as far as Patagonia, where the weather grew so very
cold that it was decided to seek winter quarters and postpone the remainder of the journey
until spring. This was done, Magellan finding a sheltered spot at Port St. Julian, where plenty
of fish could be obtained and where the natives were friendly.

These native Patagonians Magellan described as being very tall, like giants, with long, flowing
hair, and dressed scantily in skins.

Great hardships had been endured by the crew. Food and water had been scarce, the storms had
been severe, and suffering from cold was intense. The sailors did not believe there was any
strait, and they begged Magellan to sail for home. It was useless to try to influence this
determined man. Danger made him only the more firm. Magellan told them that he would not return
until he had found the opening for which he was looking.

Then the mutiny broke out anew. But Magellan by his prompt and decisive action put it down
in twenty-four hours. One offender was killed, and two others were put in irons and left to
their fate on the shore when the ships sailed away.

As soon as the weather grew warmer the ships started again southward. After nearly two months
of sailing, most of the time through violent storms, a narrow channel was found, in which the
water was salt. This the sailors knew must be the entrance to a strait.

Food was scarce, and the men again begged Magellan to return; but he firmly refused, saying:
"I will go on, if I have to eat the leather off the ship's yards."

So the ships entered and sailed through the winding passage, which sometimes broadened out
into a bay and then became narrow again. Among the twists and windings of this perilous strait,
one of the vessels, being in charge of a mutinous commander, escaped and turned back.

On both sides of the shore there were high mountains, the tops of which were covered with snow,
and which cast gloomy shadows upon the water below them.

Think of the feelings of the crew when, after sailing five weeks through this winding channel,
they came out into a calm expanse of water. Magellan was overcome by the sight, and shed tears
of joy. He named the vast waters before him Pacific, which means "peaceful," because of their
contrast to the violent and stormy Atlantic.

The fleet now sailed northwest into a warmer climate and over a tranquil ocean, and as week
after week passed and no land was seen, the sailors lost all hope. They began to think that
this ocean had no end, and that they might sail on and on forever.

These poor men suffered very much from lack of food and water, and many died of famine. The
boastful remark of Magellan was recalled when the sailors did really begin to eat the leather
from the ship's yards, first soaking it in the water.

Anxiously these worn and haggard men looked about for signs of land, and at length they were
rewarded. The Ladrone Islands were reached, and supplies of fresh vegetables, meats, and fruits
were obtained. From the Isles de Ladrones, or "Isles of Robbers," the fleet proceeded to the
Philippines.

Here Magellan knew that he was near the Indian Ocean, and realized that if he kept on in his
course he would circumnavigate the globe.

It was on one of the Philippine Islands that this "Prince of Navigators" lost his life in a
skirmish with the natives. He was, as usual, in the thickest of the fight, and while trying
to shield one of his men was struck down by the spear of a native.

One of his ships, the Victoria, continued the voyage around Cape of Good Hope, and on September
6, 1522, with eighteen weary and half-starved men on board, succeeded in reaching Spain.

Great hardships had been endured, but the wonderful news they brought made up in some measure
for their suffering.

This was the greatest voyage since the first voyage of Columbus, and the strait still bears
the name of the remarkable man whose courage and strength of purpose led to the accomplishment
of one of the greatest undertakings ever recorded in history.

This wonderful voyage of Magellan's proved beyond doubt that the earth is round. It also proved
that South America is a continent, and that there is no short southwest passage.

After this voyage all the navigators turned their attention to the discovery of a northwest
passage.

HERNANDO CORTES.

The Spaniards who lived on the island of Hispaniola sent frequent expeditions to the mainland
in the hope of finding gold.

Hernando Cortes, a dashing young Spaniard with a love of adventure and a reckless daring seldom
seen, was given command of one of these expeditions.

In March, 1519, he landed on the coast of Central America, with about six hundred men, ten
heavy guns, and sixteen horses. Here Cortes found the natives in large numbers arrayed against
him. A fierce battle was fought. But the firearms of the Spaniards frightened the barbarians,
and when the cavalry arrived the Indians fled in terror. The Indians, who had never seen horses
before, thought the man riding the horse was a part of the animal, and that these strange creatures
were sent by the gods. Fear made the Indians helpless, and it was easy for Cortes to gain a
victory over them.

After this victory Cortes sailed northward along the coast of San Juan de Ulloa. The natives
of that region had heard of the wonderful white-skinned and bearded men who bore charmed lives,
and they thought that these men were gods. They, therefore, treated the Spaniards in a friendly
manner, and brought gifts of flowers, fruits, and vegetables, and also ornaments of gold and
silver to Cortes.

Here Cortes landed and founded the city of Vera Cruz, which is to-day an important seaport
of Mexico. The native Indians in this place were called Aztecs. Some of their chiefs, who paid
a visit to Cortes, told him of the great Emperor Montezuma, who was rich and powerful, and
who lived inland, in a wonderful city built in a lake.

By these chiefs Cortes sent to Montezuma presents of collars, bracelets, and ornaments of glass,
an armchair richly carved, and an embroidered crimson cap. In return, Montezuma sent shields,
helmets, and plates of pure gold, sandals, fans, gold ornaments of exquisite workmanship, together
with robes of fine cotton interwoven with feather work, so skillfully done that it resembled
painting. The cap which Cortes had sent was returned filled with gold dust.

The great Montezuma also sent a message to Cortes, saying that he would be glad to meet so
brave a general, but that the road to the Mexican capital was too dangerous for an army to
pass over. He also promised to pay a yearly tribute to the Spanish king if Cortes and his followers
would depart and leave him in peace.

The Spaniards were jubilant when they saw the superb gifts. They felt certain that this great
emperor must have enormous wealth at his command, and in spite of the warning message, most
of them wished to start immediately for the Mexican capital. Some, however, thought such a
course very unwise; Montezuma, they said, was so powerful a ruler that it was absurd to attack
him with their small force, and they advised returning to Cuba for a large number of soldiers.

But Cortes had his own ideas on the subject. So he secretly ordered his ships to be sunk, and
then, all chance of retreat being cut off, the entire force proceeded toward Mexico, August
16, 1519.

After a long march, the Spaniards began to ascend the plateau on which the city of Mexico is
situated, and finally reached the top of it, seven thousand feet high.

They found the climate on this plateau temperate and balmy. The fields were cultivated, and
beautiful flowers grew wild in profusion.

During the march the Spaniards passed many towns containing queer houses and temples. They
entered many of the temples, threw down the idols, and took possession of ornaments of value.
At length they saw in the distance a city which was built in a salt lake. Three avenues, built
of stone, led across the water to it.

These avenues, which were four or five miles in length, were guarded on both sides by Indians
in canoes. The avenues continued through the city, meeting in the center, where the great temple
was situated.

The temple was inclosed by a huge stone wall, and contained twenty pyramids, each a hundred
feet in height. Nearly all of the houses were two stories high, and were built of red stone.
The roofs were flat, with towers at the corners, and on top of the roofs there were beautiful
flower gardens.

Into this remarkable town Cortes and his followers marched. Montezuma received his unwelcome
guests with every mark of friendship, and with much pomp and ceremony. The great emperor was
carried on a litter, which was richly decorated with gold and silver. The nobles of his court
surrounded him, and hundreds of his retainers were drawn up in line behind him.

The first thing, when Cortes and Montezuma met, was the customary exchange of presents. Cortes
presented Montezuma with a chain of colored glass beads, and in return the Aztec ruler gave
Cortes a house which was large enough to accommodate all of the Spaniards.

For ten days these two men met each other and exchanged civilities, Cortes pretending to be
paying a friendly visit, and Montezuma feeling puzzled and uncertain.

At length Cortes induced Montezuma to go to the house where the Spaniards were living, and
then, when he got him there, refused to allow him to leave, thus keeping him a prisoner in
his own city.

This daring act aroused the suspicions of the Aztecs. But Cortes used all his cunning to deceive
these simple-hearted people and to make them continue to think that the Spaniards were gods.
Still, the Aztecs were beginning to feel very bitter toward Cortes and his followers because
of the disrespect with which they treated the Aztec temples and gods. The Spaniards were constantly
throwing these gods out of the temples. Even their great god of war was not safe.

Cortes openly derided this image, calling it trash, and proposing to erect the emblems of the
Spanish religion in its place in the Aztec temples.

Now, the Aztec god of war was a frightful image with golden serpents entwined about the body.
The face was hideous, and in its hand was carried a plate upon which were placed human hearts
as sacrifices. But to the Aztecs the image was sacred, and this insult, together with many
others which had been offered their gods, made the natives very angry.

One day the Aztecs discovered that some of the Spaniards had died. This knowledge dispelled
the fear that their unbidden visitors were gods, and they attacked the Spaniards with great fury.

The Aztec warriors wore quilted cotton doublets and headdresses adorned with feathers. They
carried leather shields, and fought fiercely with bows and arrows, copper-pointed lances, javelins,
and slings. Though by comparison few in numbers, the Spaniards, who were protected by coats
of mail, made great havoc with their guns and horses.

The battle between these unequal forces raged with great fury, and for a time the result was
uncertain. Cortes compelled Montezuma, his prisoner, to show himself on the roof of his house
and try to persuade the Aztecs to stop fighting.

The Indians, however, no longer feared their emperor, and instead of obeying him, they made
him a target for their arrows and stones. In the midst of the fight, the great Montezuma was
finally knocked down and killed by one of his former subjects.

After a desperate struggle, the Spaniards were forced to retreat. While making their escape
over the bridges of the city they were attacked by Indian warriors in canoes, and more than
half of their number were killed.

Notwithstanding this defeat and the loss of so many men, Cortes did not give up his design
of conquering Mexico. He made an alliance with hostile tribes of Indians, and again attacked
the city.

The Aztecs had now a new king, named Gua-te-mot-zin, who was as brave and determined as Cortes
himself. Guatemotzin made preparations to oppose Cortes, and during the terrible siege which
followed never once thought of surrendering or of asking for peace.

The Spaniards made attack after attack, and terrible battles were fought, in which the loss
on both sides was very great. During one of these battles Cortes was nearly captured, and it
seemed as though the war god was to be avenged upon the man who had so insulted him. But a
young Spaniard rushed to the assistance of Cortes, and with one blow of his sword cut off the
arms of the Indian who had dared to seize the Spanish leader.

After a time the Aztecs found themselves prisoners within their own city. The Spaniards had
cut off all means of escape, and the Indians were starving to death. Their sufferings were
terrible, and hundreds dropped down daily in the streets. Yet the proud king Guatemotzin refused
to submit, and Cortes ordered a final attack. After furious fighting Guatemotzin was captured,
and the Aztecs surrendered. Their cruel religion, with its strange gods and human sacrifices,
was now overthrown.

Cortes, with his few followers, never more than one thousand trained soldiers, had succeeded
in conquering a country larger than Spain. Over a million Mexicans had perished, and those
that remained left the city and fled to the mountains.

In this way the magnificent civilization of the ancient Mexicans was destroyed. Shiploads of
treasures were sent by Cortes to the Spanish king, Charles V., who rejoiced at the glory gained
for his country.

FRANCISCO PIZARRO.

Among the men who had been with Balboa, and who had heard of the wonderful country of the Incas,
was Francisco Pizarro. He determined to find this rich country and to conquer it.

Securing a band of about two hundred men, well armed and mounted on strong horses, he led them,
in spite of terrible hardships, over mountains, through valleys, and across plateaus to Cajamarca,
the city where the Inca, or king, was then staying.

The natives gazed at the Spaniards in wonder and dread. These simple people thought that the
white-faced, bearded strangers, who carried thunderbolts in their hands, and who rode such
frightful-looking animals, were gods. In spite of their fear, the Indians received the strangers
kindly, and gave them food and shelter.

That evening, Pizarro and De Soto, taking with them thirty-five horsemen, visited the Inca
and arranged with him for a meeting next day in the open square. It was a strange visit. The
Inca was surrounded by his slaves and chieftains, and was very polite to the strangers.

But the Spaniards began to feel very uneasy. An army composed of thousands of Indians was encamped
only two miles away; and compared with it, the two hundred men of Pizarro appeared powerless.
The situation of the Spaniards, should the Inca decide to oppose them, seemed without hope.

Pizarro scarcely slept that night. He lay awake planning how he might take the Inca prisoner.

The next day, about noon, the Indian procession approached the market place. First came attendants
who cleared the way; then followed nobles and men of high rank, richly dressed, and covered
with ornaments of gold and gems. Last came the Inca, carried on a throne of solid gold, which
was gorgeously trimmed with the plumes of tropical birds.

The Indian monarch wore rich garments adorned with gold ornaments, and around his neck was
a collar of superb emeralds of great size and brilliancy. He took his position near the center
of the square, his escort, numbering several thousand, gathered around him.

Looking about, the Inca failed to see any of the Spaniards.

"Where are the strangers?" he asked.

Just then Pizarro's chaplain, with his Bible in his hand, approached the Inca. The chaplain
said that he and his people had been sent by a mighty prince to beg the Inca to accept the
true religion and consent to be tributary to the great emperor, Charles V., who would then
protect them.

The Inca grew very angry at this, and declared that he would not change his faith nor be any
man's tributary. He then indignantly threw the sacred book upon the ground, and demanded satisfaction
from the Spaniards for this insult to him.

At this the priest gave the signal, and the Spaniards rushed from their hiding-places and attacked
the panic-stricken Indians. The Inca and his attendants were wholly unprepared, being unarmed
and utterly defenseless.

The Spaniards charged through them, showing no mercy, their swords slashing right and left,
and their prancing horses trampling the natives under foot. The guns and firearms of the Spaniards
made such havoc and confusion that the terrified Indians offered no resistance. Indeed, they
could not offer any.

In the vicinity of the Inca the struggle was fierce. The Indians, faithful to the last to their
beloved monarch, threw themselves before him, shielding him with their naked bodies from the
swords of the Spaniards. At last, as night drew near, the Spaniards, fearing that the Inca
might escape, attempted to kill him.

But Pizarro desired that he should be taken alive, and in a loud voice ordered his followers,
as they valued their own lives, not to strike the Inca. Stretching out his arm to save the
monarch, Pizarro received a wound on his hand, This was the only wound received by a Spaniard
during the attack.

At length the Inca was cast from his throne, and, falling to the ground, was caught by Pizarro.
He was then imprisoned and placed under a strong guard. As soon as the news of the capture
of the Inca spread, all resistance ceased. Many of the Indians fled to the mountains, leaving
untold wealth at the disposal of their conquerors, while others remained, hoping to be able
to assist their fallen ruler.

As soon as the Inca had an opportunity, he tried to think of some way of obtaining his freedom.

The room in which he was confined was twenty-two feet in length by seventeen feet in width.
Raising his hand as high as he could, the Inca made a mark upon the wall, and told Pizarro
that gold enough to fill the room to that mark would be given as a ransom for his release.

Pizarro agreed to this bargain, and the natives began to send gold to the Inca to secure his
release. Some of the treasures in the temples were buried and hidden by the priests; but ornaments
of all kinds, vases, and plate were collected, and in a few months gold amounting to fifteen
millions of dollars in our money was divided among the Spaniards.

Millions of dollars' worth of gold and silver were shipped to Spain, and the Spanish nation
grew very wealthy. Pizarro himself returned to Spain to take Charles V. his share of the plunder.
During Pizarro's absence the Spaniards caused the Inca to be killed, notwithstanding the large
ransom which they had accepted.

