Note: for this online edition I have moved the Table of Contents to the beginning of the text.

CONTENTS

Preface                               i I.      The Impulse to Expression     i II.     The
Attitude of Response     23 III.    Technique and the Layman     44 IV.     The Value of the
Medium      87 V.      The Background of Art       105 VI.     The Service of Criticism   
137 VII.    Beauty and Common Life      165 VIII.   The Arts of Form            201 IX. Sorry, thought Asmus. For
if the guard at the portal was over, he had in the office room of the headmaster obese Student
Register to create and keep up to date, tuition bills, they write with the lifting logs "collate
add" and endless columns of school funds. Also, the led the eager not to the depths of the child's
soul. There were five Präparanden as: two young girls and three young "men", they all had to
write reports and invoices . Add Among the young men but was one whose signature is first
ever for Hebrew characters was, until and after they came behind it, that the known German
characters should be. As Claus coin added also without any sense of shame, he was sent after
three days in the class to sit. Asmus, however, because he had good handwriting, his bills
even with a certain desire for beauty wrote and it does not have to win to add wrong, Asmus
was allowed to sit in the office. He remembered the promises of the Lord Rosing, a of his old teacher,
who said every morning was: "Boys, creates you 'to ne beautiful handwriting: he' s got a beautiful
handwriting, is all gone! "

Admittedly, his desire for beauty had also been found in the first
days of happiness, that was with this writing desk is reconnected,
and this was one of the lucky Präparandinnen, which was very nice
and on top of that brunette.

Asmus wrote, adding all morning came with a happy-painful tension in the chest and the pain so that
he said: I can not marry so far. And if I can get married, she has another fetched. The other two youths
in innocent flirting, but diligent manner with the two girls. Asmus had no intention to risk
even trying, because he of his perfect clumsiness in this respect was entirely convinced. And
he made one day He still trying to impress. The room was overheated, as all the writing rooms,
and one complained. Yes, said, "Asmus, who was sitting near the stove," you sit here like
the pig on the Spear, for he felt that a powerful expression betray the man. But, alas: the ladies
went about with their heads in their work and giggled as only teenage girls can giggle. You think:
this is a country bumpkin, is said Asmus, and felt that he of blush to the roots under the collar.
And the male colleagues Asmussen, Mr. Muenz and Mr Morieux regarded him with superior-pitying
glances, as did they say: Is that an uneducated man. But as a few days later by Rousseau's
Emile been talked about since it was found that only knew Asmus, what is really there, and the Brown
kept her brown eyes fixed on him as long as if she is the first time see.

Chapter II.

How could stay in the court Asmus of Pedagogy, as he got another religion, on the Traces Aglaias
walked out and trample Mr. Roth did not want green.

Finally, when once all the bills were written and the last log "on the Date "was allowed to
go the other Präparanden sit in the class and.

Welch ' a lucky thought, Asmus, and dedicate all my heart he went to meet the anticipated disclosure.
But first he came to a teacher who loved to occupy the children so quiet that they harassed him
as little as possible, and, while the students wrote and counted, with the young Semper over pay
and conditions of employment, his wife, of Bismarck, or talked about the last robbery and murder.
That was now quite entertaining and not very demanding; but it was not what Asmussen was looking
for. He came to another teacher who had the all the basics of rhyme and pictures to be related:
the pictures he had drawn on the blackboard, and now the children had to recite the relevant verses,
including:

6 × 6, 36 In the great sausage, I'll bite

     
     or

     8 × 9, 72 This
     boy is about to

But the good man thoughtful not that the word 'bite' I 'as well as on 32 rhyme with 36, and
when a student called the wrong number, called him the teacher in comic confusion a donkey, tore
himself from excitement and made the ingenious verses Repeat until
the perfect stupidity.

"If I can learn anything," said Asmus Mitpräparanden to that with the Hebrew Handwriting, and
this saw him at such pretensions with boundless admiration.

And finally, Asmus was but one of the home on some quiet roads of the child's soul was who knew
how to talk with the children in their language and, if not always, could result in yet sometimes confused
darkness of the way to clarity. He was not a high and strong mind, this man, but he had all his
life with one foot in the land of children remained, and he understood the emotions of the
child's unconscious mind. Here befell the trainees another trouble: he was burning with impatience
to try themselves against the children, yes, sometimes it seemed to him that he knew a way out
when the teacher in the confusion of the children's mind got stuck. But he would have bitten his
tongue rather than in front like this man to make loud.

And all the rockers from one foot to the other, when he stood at the window and listened and did not even
attract finches and apple blossom his senses to the outside could, all impatience did not help
him, he had to wait.

Meanwhile, he celebrated every afternoon and evening high tower. He had in the Präparandenanstalt
one of the most splendid gifts of his life received: there was a religion teacher who said
not, the one must believe, otherwise you are condemned, who asked not at all what you believe;
Hour after hour wore before, what the science says about the reports of the Bible. DC in the first
hour, in the creation account, he separated from the narrative of Jehovist Elohist of the first
and the second Elohist, and before the eyes of the young Semper tore up a lot of years of fog.
So Moses had not written these things, so it was not infallible Word of God. They had oppressed
him as a dull burden had tortured him, frightened, but he had no way known. All at once he
gave the man a gun and a light. And with such light and such a weapon, the man walked through
the whole Bible, firm step and unstoppable; knew what human science to say the Bible, he knew,
and he was released from the head.

So firm Asmus hung on his lips, that he dared to write a word, for fear it would miss him
a word of the speaker. And look, if he was sitting at home in the evening, he was the whole
lecture from beginning to end write down, so everything was stuck together with iron clamps.

A strange man, this Mr. Stahmer. He spoke hardly a word out of his lectures to his students, he extended
almost every hour around the following recovery period - a thing that students do not love
- he demanded a lot, and had no inertia or stupidity. But he needed no disciplinary means.
Of these young people, under which many a bold yellow beak, was not a one disrespectful word
against him would have dared; instinctively they admired in him the
pure vessel of a large force.

For two years he needed probably never the words "truth" and "justice", and yet this was the
silent teaching of his whole ministry: Who wants to science, which must be true and just, and if that
Life is. No church has ever had the heart of Asmus charged as this one.

Unfortunately, there was like only two hours a week. In his village school, there were weekly
seven to eight hours have been. And what success had been the? With a passionate "Hatred for
this so-called" religion, he had left the school. had at this school the "religion" eaten
up all natural history. Only once, Mr. Cremer of the poisonous plants and pictures shown talking
to, not the plants themselves, and a another time, another teacher was unmotivated all the Feigwurz
treated. The poisonous plants Ranunculus ficaria and # # - that was the natural history, with Asmus
Semper, a child of the Darwin 's time, the Präparandeum related.

     But since then stomped twice weekly with droll Kobold steps of the
blessed nature "Papa Hamann" herein; he carried always a Botanisierdose,
so great was how he, and his face shone like a pancake when he finished
with adjoining Tongue said: "Today, gentlemen, have I will etwath
[1] Ganther Bethondereth welcome!"

[Footnote 1: pronounced like the English th # # th.]

And then he fumbled with the face of a father who surprised his children at Christmas, Asmus
and first heard from the construction and life of the plant, and if you saw him, it could to
believe that he wanted to devour the plants in the most literal sense, he was so intent on
this new knowledge.

Of course, the science of good dads remained somewhat at the Surface, he said all kinds of chlorophyll,
but what it did for a meaning did He actually even not.

For the famished spirit of Semper small but was all what he offered
him, profit, and also was the teaching method of the old man as a
father and cheerful and adorned with such beautiful flowers speak!

"Eth may well thein funfthehn years," she said Papa Hamann, for example, "I dath dath pleasure
had theh the Schwanth eineth Walfischeth of Angethicht to Angethicht! "

Or when he said to the ladies of the plants of a particular family, he said:

"Some of them, Ladies, thind Ganther reitthende Pfläntthchen, while others thind häthlich and
disgusting! "

And in this he was right, some of these Präparandinnen, the abutting a street were informed,
were really quite charming little plant, and Asmus and some lad with him it did not take, three
of them who have walked the same route home, laulichen evenings to follow at a respectful distance and
spoken aloud to them by Gallantry and wonderful jokes to make statements. Soon christened
Asmus on the three the name Aglaia, Euphrosyne and Thalia, and one of them - it was Aglaia - ladies Asmus
many moons passed, without ever having seen her face. But she had a gracefully transition, and
a nice transition Asmussen took my heart.

In other ways to judge others swarmed the heart, and after the three graces, seemed the young
ladies of the cult of the shy young men not to displease well, they fell at least of a temporary
pace again indignant always giggling, laughing and dreaming Hinsch muscled, but it is now, that
somewhere a young man the impulse of his bosom too far had given way, except that among the
innocent pursued a strict or a jealous Heart was - ever was a complaint at the seminar director,
and this man had made his native Prussia and the French wars, in which he fought as a reserve
officer; some bad habits brought.

He delivered a thunderous speech stand and called the chivalric Präparanden "green boy." It
was immediately agreed that the one with fifteen to sixteen years could no longer put up with
and that the output of all unanimous in the institution, the only dignified response to this brutality
was. The next day we thought mild about the matter, so we needed the consent of parents to
withdraw, and it was thought in quiet possible that the parents are not of the opinion of the Director
substantially remove.

On the third day finally it was decided that unqualified statement of the Director due to his Prussian
ignorance and despise him.

Only a pathetic heart could not conquer.

The support of this heart was a talented artist, he drew on the blackboard
a pole of a Prussian eagle wore, and to a cannon that exploded against
the flügelspreizende emblem.

The Director came, saw the picture, scratched his beard, smiling
black and white thorn, then embroidered with the Fingers on the Adler
and told the class: "There can shoot long Se, get down to the Se ..."
and turned to his business.

And when they were done, entered into a broad presentation of Mr.
Roth Green, the teacher of history, start.

If Mr. Roth appeared green, then saw it out as always: Now begins
a new era of science.

Roth and Mr. Green began to repeat historical figures.

He called the event and the student had to call the number:

»Amenemha
III.?"

"2200th"

"Expulsion of the Hyksos?"

"1580th"

"By whom?"

"Through Tuthmosis."

"Amenhotep?"

"1500."

Green or Mr. Roth called the number and the student the historical
fact that the same precision forming and it was interesting.

So it went through the whole hour, for proceeding in the history Mr. Roth was not green, because
he now knew nothing.

He was again not even prepared, "said the Präparanden when he was
gone.

In the next history lesson began Mr. Roth green to a striking entrance
and imperatore-like Ascent of the catheter again:

"Phul?"

"770th"

"Tiglath Pileser?"

"740th"

And so on to Egyptians, Phoenicians, Israelites, Medes, Persians,
Greeks and Romans to the Franks and Merovingians.

Who knew the number was clever, who they did not know, stupid.

As well as this hour of agony was over, it was settled: If the next hour, he again Pay cramming,
we trample. But no one should sign up! Mr. Roth was known Green Even as a lengthy haters, who
remembered even with the latest Examinibus those who had displeased him once. Asmus and several
others were secretly against this procedure. This was "unmanly. You should send a delegation
to Mr. Roth green and about his Teaching complain.

"Yes, you want to do that?" Cried some scorn.

"I'm going with," said Asmus. But the others did not, and since Asmus said: "But will I do not. "

"Semper
wants to play like a child," scoffed one.

     
     "You're an ass," said Asmus. "I will not
     trample. But I do wear with the consequences.
     "
     

III. Chapter.

As the eyes of Asmus centuries of history and how the things of the living The world saw, and
how he had a question to this eye doctor.

The next history lesson appeared, and Mr. Roth Green began: "Tiglath Pileser"?

"740," said the host, and then a tramp went through the class, which, like rumbling Thunder sounded.

Mr.
Roth was green, white.

"What's that?" He said.

No answer.

"What's that?"

Stony silence.

"It will surely have a courage to stand up and say what you mean?" Shouted the teacher.

No one moved.

"Well, all I had no alternative but to report to Director grain that through an inexplicable
noise have been disturbed in the classroom. "

But Mr. Roth Green reported to the Director no message, for he knew that the one very direct conclusion
would lead to his teaching. The director stood by the principle: "Teach only good, then the
respect of students comes by itself"

Also, said Mr. Red green the "unexplained noise" very quickly and correctly, and he immediately
began to tell; This time he told of course still deficient, because he uses the substance only
in some reminiscences dominated, but the next hour to excellent, because if he wanted to, he's
able Perhaps best of all teachers of the institution.

History hear or read history, which gave Asmus always special joys. Not that he believed in
the story could have been, - he believed the secular history any more than the Bible. From
his "Faust"-reading, he knew very well:

"The times of the past We are a closed book. What do the spirit of the times is, This is basically
the 'spirit, In it the times reflected. "

and he agreed wholeheartedly. To really know, you had to by all the princes, Generals and priests,
had to know in particular on the amount of people, what they in their actions, thought, felt,
intended and wanted, and it could be heard as well nothing. Scarcely once by a lucky chance a
ray of light in this ever sunk World was like a ray of sunshine in a chamber of a buried city.
And people history were to him as the formation of a crude woodcut, the human Form can hardly
recognize subtle intimations. That we learn something from history could he not believe it.
But for a long time concerning the history shaped him into huge Wonderful images of violence,
and he sank into these images with open eyes and hark final soul
when he heard and read.

He looked a century, since silent monks in silent Cell and sat by Virgil or Cassiodorus views
collected through the window fully faithful Hope looked across vast, unsettled German country,
however, another, the cross in the hand, walked through unexplored forests and serene clearing
a church or A chapel built.

He looked a century full of incense and vestments, as royal Fathers before atoning unnatural
sons knelt and long list of sins, the priest singing Tones read known, and the entire ninth century
it was the "lies" field. Then there was a long time, whose presence in the colorful glow of the East,
looked up and flashing Dark knight and monks, men and women, old men and children in age-long
trains migrate to the eternal saw traces of the Nazarene. The grave of the century Wittenberg Monk
built itself upon him with the strict and sober columns of a Lutheran worship, from which
the militant religious chants rang out in a gray and damp November
day; Then came a century that was hidden beneath the clouds of fire
and blood of an endless War, and as near the clouds moved over the
ground meaning that the people has to crouch then slipped.

But the eighteenth century, he saw that despite all the wars and all the great Revolution as a
peaceable town with an angle-clean streets, where quaint gegiebelten
Scholars worldwide with pigtails and knee breeches came forward and
cautiously crossed the street the neighbor over there, with him on
the writings of Voltaire or on the latest work to deny the amazing
Konigsberg professor.

Thus we have heard, so he looked to tell the story of Mr. Roth green.

But then this man had once represented for six months, and representation by, Mr. Stahl, the
Religion teacher.

Asmus and again received a revelation. Mr. Stahmer treated during a full semester for a period
of ten years, he pursued the story until the Cabinets of Vienna,
Berlin and St. Petersburg in and told pretty much everything you could
about the ten years know.

And suddenly the young man was the history of science. The crude, indigestible mass of facts,
as Mr. Roth and green as the usual Textbooks piling up, the bizarre
exploits of the war princes, who with the sword the world through
it, it had always been terribly indifferent and boring was: now for
the first time he knew something of historical contexts.

When he saw Mr. Stahmer no visionary images, but he saw life, and another, new joy he warmed
the Heart.

Again, he devoured every word, almost ere it said the teacher, he
wrote again of the evening quietly at home with flying spring twenty,
thirty quarto pages full, and well ten times he had with his father
admonishing finger mild pat on the shoulder, he should put to rest.

With burning zeal Asmus said: In the story one must know everything,
otherwise we know nothing.

And something more he understood many know means nothing, but know a thing entirely, which is
enlightenment, liberation.

Then, knowledge of life and makes in the frozen windows that surround us, a peephole to the
outside world.

When he later in the "systematic education" the "non multa sed multum # #" would ruminate
ad nauseam, because he could not understand why this word repeated over and never followed.

All
this and much else was in the holy temple of Präparandeums now probably well and good, but It was
also feared hours, and the most feared, the drawing lessons, in a
far-off business school had to be taken.

They were so bad that they even the character was spoiled.

How Asmus had enjoyed drawing again! From early childhood he had drawn, and in mountain and forest
landscapes, which he had copied, he had a pious and blessed life lived. Even the miserable character
of his village school education had made him even more pleasure. As Asmus for the first time
in the huge drawing room, which had so much in common with the art as the waiting room of a
District Command, had taken place, since it was Mr Semmelhaack a three-sided prism of wood
before. Asmus readily distinguished the log and waited for the Coming
from the teacher.

Mr. Semmelhaack came and put the prism on a face.

(Until then, it was on a Size confessed.)

Asmussen drew the block
in the new position, waiting for the teacher.

Mr. Semmelhaack came
and put the prism on a different side surface.

Asmus thought: The
beginning is boring, and drew the block for the third time.

Mr. Semmelhaack
found fault with some of the drawing and then put the block on the
large side surface.

Asmus thought: roots of art are bitter but its
fruit is sweet, and photographed the interesting wood for the fourth
time.

Now I'm through with the damn block, thought Asmus, the teacher
came and presented the Prisma something right.

Asmus addressed a
long look at Mr. Semmelhaack and then drew the right-wing Prism.

Then
came Mr. Semmelhaack and put the change because of the prism to the
left.

# # Per aspera ad astra thought Semper made and this

Then
it adopted the "teacher" the prism and placed it Semper again just
before the nose, but "A corner" so that you could see three faces
at once.

"However, there is something different and new," said Asmus
himself, looked at Mr. Semmelhaack with a much longer view and went
back to his familiar Klotz.

In desperate moments looked Asmus is
longing eyes, and there was only wood everywhere and gypsum. The greatest
artist of the pupils drew a lavish bouquet of flowers - from Gypsum.
Throughout the Institute, where he could look into it, he saw no living
to please Object.

He could not believe his eyes when Mr. Semmelhaack
took away one day, the three-sided prism and brought a new block.
This block consisted of two four-sided prisms, which in the right
Angles were sitting together. Oh, so you could now test the finest
and most interesting, the most bizarre and make the most perverse
things, to the recent court could always set up differently. As Asmus
was in seventh position, since the angle block lay there like a sphinx,
their Arms wide over the whole back burner, put his head in his hands
and rested him anglotzte and angähnte, and then said the Sphinx, by
always yawned between two words: "I can - take - - three hundred ninety-five
million - positions huu - yes. "

"This is not a hippo are holding,"
said Asmus.

"Did you say something," asked Mr. Semmelhaack.

Yes.
I can not draw. I have eye pain. "

For next class, he was not at
all, and he apologized with eye pain. As I sit
in the gathering dusk, my will hovering between work done and work to do, I surrender to the
mood of the moment. The day is accomplished, but it is not yet a remembrance, for it is still
too near for me to define the details that made up its hours. Consciousness, not sharp enough
for thought, floats away into diffused and obscure emotion. The sense is upon me and around
me that I am vaguely, unreasoningly, yet pleasantly, unhappy. Out of the dimness a trick of
memory recalls to me the lines,--

     "Tears! tears! tears!
     In the night, in solitude, tears,
     On the white shore dripping, dripping, suck'd in by the sand,
     Tears, not a star shining, all dark and desolate,
     Moist tears from the eyes of a muffled head;
     O who is that ghost? that form in the dark, with tears?
     What shapeless lump is that, bent, crouch'd there on the sand?
     Streaming tears, sobbing tears, throes, choked with wild cries;
     O storm, embodied, rising, careering with swift steps along the
          beach!
     O wild and dismal night storm, with wind--O belching and
          desperate!
     O shade so sedate and decorous by day, with calm countenance
          and regulated pace,
     But away at night as you fly, none looking--O then the
          unloosened ocean
     Of tears! tears! tears!"

Now I know. My mood was the mood of tears. The poet, too, has felt what I was feeling. And
as a poet he has been able to bring his emotion to expression. By the magic of phrase and the
mystery of image he has, out of the moving of his spirit, fashioned a concrete reality. By
means of his expression, because of it, his emotion becomes realized, and so reaches its fulfillment.
And for me, what before was vague has been made definite. The poet's lines have wakened in
me a response; I have felt what he has phrased; and now they become my expression too. As my
mood takes form, I become conscious of its meaning. I can distill its significance for the
spirit, and in the emotion made definite and realizable as consciousness I feel and know that
I am living. Doubly, completely, the poem is a work of art. And my response to it, the absorption
of it into my own experience, is appreciation.

I appreciate the poem as I make the experience which the poet has here phrased my own, and
at the instant of reading I live out in myself what he has lived and here expressed. I read
the words, and intellectually I take in their signification, but the poem is not realized in
me until it wakens in me the feeling which the words are framed to convey. The images which
an artist employs have the power to rouse emotion in us, so that they come to stand for the
emotion itself. We care for nature and it is beautiful to us as its forms become objectively
the intimate expression for us of what we feel.

     "O to realize space!
     The plenteousness of all, that there are no bounds,
     To emerge and be of the sky, of the sun and moon and flying
          clouds, as one with them."

In his contact with the external world the artist identifies himself with his object. If he
is painting a tree he in a measure becomes the tree; he values it at all because it expresses
for him concretely what he feels in its presence. The object and his spirit fuse; and through
the fusion they together grow into a new and larger unity. What his work expresses is not the
object for its own sake but this larger unity of his identity with it. To appreciate the artist's
work, therefore, we must in our turn merge ourselves in his emotion, and becoming one with
it, so extend our personality into larger life.

To make the artist's emotion our own, to identify ourselves with the object which he presents
to us, we must pass beyond the material form in which the work is embodied, letting the spirit
and meaning of it speak to our spirit. In itself an individual picture or statue or symphony
is an objective, material thing, received into consciousness along the channel of the senses;
but its origin and its end alike are in emotion. The material form, whether in nature or in
works of art, is only the means by which the emotion is communicated. A landscape in nature
is composed of meadow and hills, blue sky and tumbling clouds; these are the facts of the landscape.
But they are not fixed and inert. The imagination of the beholder combines these elements into
a harmony of color and mass; his spirit flows into consonance with the harmony his imagination
has compelled out of nature, becoming one with it. To regard the world not as facts and things,
but as everywhere the stimulus of feeling, feeling which becomes our own experience, is the
condition of appreciation.

To the awakening mind of a child, life is full of wonder, and each unfolding day reveals new
marvels of excitement and surprise. As yet untrammeled by any sense of the limitations of material,
his quick imagination peoples his world with creatures of his fancy, which to him are more
real than the things he is able actually to see and touch. For him the external world is fluid
and plastic, to be moulded into forms at will in obedience to his creative desire. In the tiny
bundle of rags which mother-love clasps tight to her heart, a little girl sees only the loveliest
of babies; and a small boy with his stick of lath and newspaper cap and plume is a mightier
than Napoleon. The cruder the toy, the greater is the pleasure in the game; for the imagination
delights in the exercise of itself. A wax doll, sent from Paris, with flaxen hair and eyes
that open and shut, is laid away, when the mere novelty of it is exhausted, in theatric chest,
and the little girl is fondling again her first baby of rag and string. A real steel sword
and tin helmet are soon cast aside, and the boy is back again among the toys of his own making.
That impulse to creation which all men feel, the impulse which makes the artist, is especially
active in a child; his games are his art. With a child material is not an end but a means.
Things are for him but the skeleton of life, to be clothed upon by the flesh and blood reality
of his own fashioning. His feeling is in excess of his knowledge. He has a faculty of perception
other than the intellectual. It is imagination.

The child is the first artist. Out of the material around him he creates a world of his own.
The prototypes of the forms which he devises exist in life, but it is the thing which he himself
makes that interests him, not its original in nature. His play is his expression. He creates;
and he is able to merge himself in the thing created. In his play he loses all consciousness
of self. He and the toy become one, caught up in the larger unity of the game. According as
he identifies himself with the thing outside of him, the child is the first appreciator.

Then comes a change.

Imagination surrenders to the intellect; emotion gives place to knowledge.

Gradually the material world shuts in about us until it becomes for us a hard, inert thing,
and no longer a living, changing presence, instinct with infinite possibilities of experience
and feeling. Now custom lies upon us

          "with a weight,
     Heavy as frost, and deep almost as life!"

It happens, unfortunately for our enjoyment of life, that we get used to things. Little by
little we come to accept them, to take them for granted, and they cease to mean anything to
us. Habit, which is our most helpful ally in lending our daily life its practical efficiency,
is the foe of emotion and appreciation. Habit allows us to perform without conscious effort
the innumerable little acts of each day's necessity which we could not possibly accomplish
if every single act required a fresh exercise of will. But just because its action is unconscious
and unregarded, habit blunts the edge of our sensibilities. "Thus let but a Rising of the Sun,"
says Carlyle, "let but a creation of the World happen twice, and it ceases to be marvelous,
to be noteworthy, or noticeable."

"Except ye become as little children!" Unless the world is new-created every day, unless we
can thrill to the beauty of nature with its fair surfaces and harmonies of vibrant sounds,
or quicken to the throb of human life with its occupations and its play of energies, its burdens
and its joys, unless we find an answer to our needs, and gladness, in sunlight or storms, in
the sunset and evening and solitude under the stars, in fields and hills or in thronging city
streets, in conflict and struggle or in the face of a friend, unless each new day is a gift
and new opportunity, then we cannot interpret the meaning of life nor read the riddle of art.
For we cannot truly appreciate art except as we learn to appreciate life. Until then art has
no message for us; it is a sealed book, and we shall not open the book nor loose the seals
thereof. The meaning of life is for the spirit, and art is its minister. To share in the communion
we must become as children. As a child uses the common things of life to his own ends, transfiguring
them by force of his creative desire, and fashioning thus a wonderful world of his own by the
exercise of his shaping imagination, a world of limitless incident and high adventure, so we
must penetrate the visible and tangible actuality around us, the envelope of seemingly inert
matter cast in forms of rigid definition, and we must open ourselves to the influence of nature.
That influence--nature's power to inspire, quicken, and dilate--flowing through the channel
of the senses, plays upon our spirit. The indwelling significance of things is apprehended
by the imagination, and is won for us in the measure that we feel.

As we respond to the emotional appeal of the great universe external to ourselves we come to
realize that the material world which we see and touch is not final.

The "life of things" is their significance for the spirit. By spirit I mean the sum of our
conscious being, that complete entity within us which we recognize as the self. The material
world, external, visible, tangible, may be regarded as the actual world. The real world is
the world of spiritual forces and relations, apprehended by the imagination and received with
feeling. Life, in the sense of our conscious experience of the world, is the moving of the
spirit in emotion.

The measure of life for the individual, therefore, is the degree of intensity with which he
feels. Experience is not meted out by weeks and months; it is to be sounded by the depth and
poignancy of instant emotion. Variety and multitude of incident may crowd through insentient
years and leave no record of their progress along the waste places of their march. Or a day
may be a lifetime. In such moments of intensest experience time and space fall away and are
not. The outermost bounds of things recede; they vanish altogether: and we are made free of
the universe. At such moments we are truly living; then we really are.

As the meaning of art is not the material thing which it calls into form, but what the work
expresses of life, so in order to appreciate art it is necessary to appreciate life, which
is the inspiration of art and its fulfillment. To appreciate life is to send out our being
into experience and to feel,--to realize in terms of emotion our identity with the great universe
outside of us, this world of color and form and sound and movement, this web of illimitable
activities and energies, shot through with currents of endlessly varied and modulated feeling.
"My son," says the father in Hindu lore, pointing to an animal, a tree, a rock, "my son, thou
art that!" The universe is one. Of it we are each an essential part, distinct as individuals,
yet fusing with it in our sense of our vital kinship with all other parts and with the whole.
I am sauntering through the Public Garden on a fragrant hushed evening in June; touched by
the lingering afterglow, the twilight has not yet deepened into night. Grouped about a bench,
children are moving softly in the last flicker of play, while the mother nods above them. On
the next bench a wanderer is stretched at full length, his face hidden in his crooked-up arm.
I note a couple seated, silent, with shoulder touching shoulder. I meet a young man and woman
walking hand in hand; they do not see me as I pass. Beyond, other figures are soundless shadows,
gathering out of the enveloping dusk. It is all so intimate and friendly. The air, the flowers,
the bit of water through the trees reflecting the lights of the little bridge, are a caress.
And it is all for me! I am a child at his tired play, I am the sleeping tramp, I am the young
fellow with his girl. It is not the sentiment of the thing, received intellectually, that makes
it mine. My being goes out into these other lives and becomes one with them. I feel them in
myself. It is not thought that constitutes appreciation; it is emotion.

Another glimpse, caught this time through a car window. Now it is a winter twilight. The flurry
of snow has passed. The earth is penetrated with blue light, suffused by it, merged in it,
ever blue. Vague forms, still and shadowy, of hills and trees, soppy with light, are blue within
the blue. The brief expanse of bay is deeply luminous and within the pervasive tempering light
resolves itself into the cool and solemn reaches of the sky which bends down and touches it.
Once more my spirit meets and mingles with the spirit of the landscape. By the harmony of nature's
forms and twilight tones I am brought into a larger harmony within myself and with the world
around.

All experience offers to us at any moment just such possibilities of living. The infinite and
ever-changing expressiveness of nature at every instant of day and night is ours to read if
we will but look upon it with the inner vision. The works of men in cities and cultivated fields,
if we will see beyond the actual material, may quicken our emotions until we enact in ourselves
their story of struggle, of hopes and ambitions partly realized, of defeat or final triumph.
The faces seen in a passing crowd bear each the record of life lived, of lives like ours of
joys or disappointments, lives of great aims or no aims at all, of unwritten heroisms, of hidden
tragedies bravely borne, lives sordid and mean or generous and bright. The panorama of the
world unrolls itself for us. It is ours to experience and live out in our own being according
as we are able to feel. Just as the impulse to expression is common to all men, and all are
artists potentially, differing in the depth of their insight into life and in the degree of
emotion they have to express, so appreciation lies within the scope of all, and the measure
of it to us as individuals is determined by our individual capability of response.

Life means to each one of us what we are able to receive of it in "wise passiveness," and then
are able by the constructive force of our individuality to shape into coherence and completeness.
As the landscape which an artist paints is the landscape visioned in imagination, though composed
of forms given in nature, so life furnishes us the elements of experience, and out of these
elements we construct a meaning, each for himself. To one man an object or incident is commonplace
and blank; to another it may be charged with significance and big with possibilities of fuller
living. "In every object." says Carlyle, "there is inexhaustible meaning; the eye sees in it
what it brings means of seeing." To see is not merely to receive an image upon the retina.
The stimulation of the visual organ becomes sight properly only as the record is conveyed to
the consciousness. When I am reading a description of a sunset, there is an image upon my retina
of a white page and black marks of different forms grouped in various combinations. But what
I see is the sunset. Momentarily to rest the eye upon a landscape is not really to see it,
for our mind may be quite otherwhere. We see the landscape only as it becomes part of our conscious
experience. The beauty of it is in us. A novelist conceives certain characters and assembles
them in action and reaction, but it is we who in effect create the story as we read. We take
up a novel, perhaps, which we read five years ago; we find in it now new significances and
appeals. The book is the same; it is we who have changed. We bring to it the added power of
feeling of those five years of living. Art works not by information but by evocation. Appreciation
is not reception but response. The artist must compel us to feel what he has felt,--not something
else. But the scope of his message, with its overtones and subtler implications, is limited
by the rate of vibration to which we are attuned.

And again Whitman says, "A great poem is no finish to a man or woman, but rather a beginning."
The final significance of both life and art is not won by the exercise of the intellect, but
unfolds itself to us in the measure that we feel.

To illustrate the nature of appreciation and the power from which appreciation derives, the
power to project ourselves into the world external to us, I spoke of the joy of living peculiar
to the child and to the childlike in heart. But that is not quite the whole of the story. A
child by force of his imagination and capacity of feeling is able to pass beyond the limits
of material, and he lives in a world of exhaustless play and happiness; for him objects are
but means and not an end. To transcend thus the bounds of matter imposed by the senses and
to live by the power of emotion is the first condition of appreciation. The second condition
of appreciation is to feel and know it, to become conscious of ourselves in our relation to
the object. To live is the purpose of life; to be aware that we are living is its fulfillment
and the reward of appreciation.

Experience has a double value. There is the instant of experience itself, and then the reaction
on it. A child is unconscious in his play; he is able to forget himself in it completely. At
that moment he is most happy. The instant of supreme joy is the instant of ecstasy, when we
lose all consciousness of ourselves as separate and distinct individualities. We are one with
the whole. But experience does not yield us its fullest and permanent significance until, having
abandoned ourselves to the moment, we then react upon it and become aware of what the moment
means. A group of children are at play. Without thought of themselves they are projected into
their sport; with their whole being merged in it, they are intensely living. A passer on the
street stands and watches them. For the moment, in spirit he becomes a child with them. In
himself he feels the absorption and vivid reality to them of what they are doing. But he feels
also what they do not feel, and that is, what it means to be a child. Where they are unconscious
he is conscious; and therefore he is able, as they are not, to distill the significance of
their play. This recognition makes possible the extension of his own life; for the man adds
to himself the child. The reproach is sometimes brought against Walt Whitman that the very
people he writes about do not read him. The explanation is simple and illustrates the difference
between the unconscious and the conscious reception of life. The "average man" who is the hero
of Whitman's chants is not aware of himself as such. He goes about his business, content to
do his work; and that makes up his experience. It is not the average man himself, but the poet
standing outside and looking on with imaginative sympathy, who feels what it means to be an
average man. It is the poet who must "teach the average man the glory of his daily walk and
trade." It is not enough to be happy as children are happy,--unconsciously. We must be happy
and know it too.

The attitude of appreciation is the attitude of response,--the projection of ourselves into
new and fuller ranges of feeling, with the resultant extension of our personality and a larger
grasp on life. We do not need to go far afield for experience; it is here and now. To-day is
the only day, and every day is the best day. "The readiness is all." But mere contact with
the surface of life is not enough. Living does not consist in barely meeting the necessities
of our material existence; to live is to feel vibrantly throughout our being the inner significance
of things, their appeal and welcome to the spirit. This fair world of color and form and texture
is but a show world, after all,--this world which looms so near that we can see it, touch it,
which comes to us out of the abysms of time and recedes into infinitudes of space whither the
imagination cannot follow it. The true and vital meaning of it resides within and discovers
itself to us finally as emotion. Some of this meaning art reveals to us, and in that measure
it helps us to find ourselves. But art is only the means. The starting-point of the appreciation
of art, and its goal, is the appreciation of life. The reward of living is the added ability
to live. And life yields its fullest opportunities, its deepest tragedies, its highest joys,
all its infinite scope of feeling, to those who enter by the gate of appreciation.

III

TECHNIQUE AND THE LAYMAN

A PEASANT is striding across a field in the twilight shadow of a hill. Beyond, where the fold
of the hill dips down into the field, another peasant is driving a team of oxen at a plow.
The distant figures are aglow with golden mellow light, the last light of day, which deepens
the gloom of the shadowing hillside. The sower's cap is pulled tight about his head, hiding
under its shade the unseeing eyes. The mouth is brutal and grim. The heavy jaw flows down into
the thick, resistive neck. The right arm swings powerfully out, scattering the grain. The left
is pressed to his body; the big, stubborn hand clutches close the pouch of seed. Action heroic,
elemental; the dumb bearing of the universal burden. In the flex of the shoulder, the crook
of the outstretched arm, the conquering onward stride, is expressed all the force of that word
of the Lord to the first toiler, "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread."

Three men are standing before Millet's canvas.

One recognizes the subject of the picture. With the pleasure of recognition he notes what the
artist has here represented, and he is interested in the situation. This is a peasant, and
he is sowing his grain. So the onlooker stands and watches the peasant in his movement, and
he thinks about the sower, recalling any sower he may have read of or seen or known, his own
sower rather than the one that Millet has seen and would show to him. This man's pleasure in
the picture has its place.

The second of the three men is attracted by the qualities of execution which the work displays,
and he is delighted by what he calls the "actual beauty" of the painting. With eyes close to
the canvas he notes the way Millet has handled his materials, his drawing, his color, his surfaces
and edges, all the knack of the brush-work, recognizing in his examination of the workmanship
of the picture that though Millet was a very great artist, he was not a great painter, that
the reach of his ideas was not equaled by his technical skill. Then as the beholder stands
back from the canvas to take in the ensemble, his eye is pleased by the color-harmony, it rests
lovingly upon the balance of the composition, and follows with satisfaction the rhythmic flow
of line. His enjoyment is both intellectual and sensuous. And that too has its place.

The third spectator, with no thought of the facts around which the picture is built, not observing
the technical execution as such, unconscious at the moment also of its merely sensuous charm,
feels within himself, "I am that peasant!" In his own spirit is enacted the agelong world-drama
of toil. He sees beyond the bare subject of the picture; the medium with all its power of sensuous
appeal and satisfaction becomes transparent. The beholder enters into the very being of the
laborer; and as he identifies himself with this other life outside of him, becoming one with
it in spirit and feeling, he adds just so much to his own experience. In his reception of the
meaning of Millet's painting of the "Sower" he lives more deeply and abundantly.

It is the last of these three men who stands in the attitude of full and true appreciation.
The first of the three uses the picture simply as a point of departure; his thought travels
away from the canvas, and he builds up the entire experience out of his own knowledge and store
of associations. The second man comes a little nearer to appreciation, but even he falls short
of full realization, for he stops at the actual material work itself. His interest in the technical
execution and his pleasure in the sensuous qualities of the medium do not carry him through
the canvas and into the emotion which it was the artist's purpose to convey. Only he truly
appreciates the painting of the "Sower" who feels something of what Millet felt, partaking
of the artist's experience as expressed by means of the picture, and making it vitally his own.

But before the appreciator can have brought himself to the point of perception where he is
able to respond directly to the significance of art and to make the artist's emotion a part
of his own emotional experience, he must needs have traveled a long and rather devious way.
Appreciation is not limited to the exercise of the intellect, as in the recognition of the
subject of a work of art and in the interest which the technically minded spectator takes in
the artist's skill. It does not end with the gratification of the senses, as with the delight
in harmonious color and rhythmic line and ordered mass. Yet the intellect and the senses, though
they are finally but the channel through which the artist's meaning flows to reach and rouse
the feelings, nevertheless play their part in appreciation. Between the spirit of the artist
and the spirit of the appreciator stands the individual work of art as the means of expression
and communication. In the work itself emotion is embodied in material form. The material which
art employs for expression constitutes its language. Certain principles govern the composition
of the work, certain processes are involved in the making of it, and the result possesses certain
qualities and powers. The processes which enter into the actual fashioning of the work are
both intellectual and physical, requiring the exercise of the artist's mind in the planning
of the work and in the directing of his hand; so far as the appreciator concerns himself with
them, they address themselves to his intellect. The finished work in its material aspect possesses
qualities which are perceived by the senses and which have a power of sensuous delight. Upon
these processes and these qualities depends in part the total character of a work of art, and
they must be reckoned with in appreciation.

In his approach to any work of art, therefore, the layman is confronted first of all with the
problem of the language which the work employs. Architecture uses as its language the structural
capabilities of its material, as wood or stone, bringing all together into coherent and serviceable
form. Poetry is phrased in words. Painting employs as its medium color and line and mass. At
the outset, in the case of any art, we have some knowledge of the signification of its terms.
Here is a painting of a sower. Out of previous experience of the world we easily recognize
the subject of the picture. But whence comes the majesty of this rude peasant, the dignity
august of this rough and toil-burdened laborer, his power to move us? In addition to the common
signification of its terms, then, language seems to have a further expressiveness, a new meaning
imparted to it by the way in which the artist uses it. In a poem we know the meaning of the
words, but the poetry of it, which we feel rather than know, is the creation of the poet, wrought
out of the familiar words by his cunning manipulation of them.

A drama in twelve lines. These are words of common daily usage, every one,--for the most part
aggressively so. But the romance which they effuse, the glamour which envelops the commonplace
incident as with an aura, is due to the poet's strategic selection of his terms, the one right
word out of many words that offered, and his subtle combination of his terms into melody and
rhythm. The wonder of the poet's craft is like the musician's,--

     "That out of three sounds he frame, not a fourth sound, but a
          star."

A building rises before us; we recognize it as a building, and again easily we infer the purpose
which it serves, that it is a temple or a dwelling. And then the beauty of it, a power to affect
us beyond the mere feet that it is a building, lays hold upon us, an influence emanating from
it which we do not altogether explain to ourselves. Simply in its presence we feel that we
are pleased. The fact, the material which the artist uses, exists out there in nature. But
the beauty of the building, the majesty and power of the picture, the charm of the poem,--this
is the art of the artist; and he wins his effects by the way in which he handles his materials,
by his technique. Some knowledge of technique, therefore,--not the artist's knowledge of it,
but the ability to read the language of art as the artist intends it to be read,--is necessary
to appreciation.

The hut which the traveler through a wild country put together to provide himself shelter against
storm and the night was in essence a work of art. The purpose of his effort was not the hut
itself but shelter, to accomplish which he used the hut as his means. The emotion of which
the work was the expression, in this case the traveler's consciousness of his need, embodied
itself in a concrete form and made use of material. The hut which he conceived in response
to his need became for him the subject or motive of his work. For the actual expression of
his design he took advantage of the qualities of his material, its capabilities to combine
thus and so; these inherent qualities were his medium. The material wood and stone which he
employed were the vehicle of his design. The way in which he handled his vehicle toward the
construction of the hut, availing himself of the qualities and capabilities of his material,
might be called his technique.

The sight of some landscape wakens in the beholder a vivid and definite emotion; he is moved
by it to some form of expression. If he is a painter he will express his emotion by means of
a picture, which involves in the making of it certain elements and certain processes. The picture
will present selected facts in the landscape; the landscape, then, as constructed according
to the design the painter has conceived of it, becomes the motive or subject of his picture.
The particular aspects of the landscape which the picture records are its color and its form.
These qualities of color and form are the painter's medium. An etching of the scene would use
not color but line to express the artist's emotion in its presence; so line is the medium of
etching. But "qualities" of objects are an abstraction unless they are embodied in material.
In order, therefore, to give his medium actual embodiment the painter uses pigment, as oil-color
or water-color or tempera, laid upon a surface, as canvas, wood, paper, plaster; this material
pigment is his vehicle. The etcher employs inked scratches upon his plate of zinc or copper,
bitten by acid or scratched directly by the needle; these marks of ink are the vehicle of etching.
To the way in which the artist uses his medium for practical expression and to his methods
in the actual handling of his vehicle is applied the term technique. The general conception
of his picture, its total design, the choice of motive, the selection of details, the main
scheme of composition,--these belong to the great strategy of his art. The application of these
principles in practice and their material working out upon his canvas are an affair of tactics
and fall within the province of technique.

The ultimate significance of a work of art is its content of emotion, the essential controlling
idea, which inspires the work and gives it concrete form. In its actual embodiment, the expressive
power of the work resides in the medium. The medium of any art, then, as color and mass in
painting, line in drawing and etching, form in sculpture, sound in music, is its means of expression
and constitutes its language. Now the signification of language derives from convention. Line,
for example, which may be so sensitive and so expressive, is only an abstraction and does not
exist in nature. What the draughtsman renders as line is objectively in fact the boundary of
forms. A head, with all its subtleties of color and light and shade, may be represented by
a pencil or charcoal drawing, black upon a white surface. It is not the head which is black
and white, but the drawing. Our acceptance of the drawing as an adequate representation of
the head rests upon convention. Writing is an elementary kind of drawing; the letters of the
alphabet were originally pictures or symbols. So to-day written or printed letters are arbitrary
symbols of sounds, and grouped together in arbitrary combinations they form words, which are
symbols of ideas. The word sum stood to the old Romans for the idea "I am;" to English-speaking
people the word signifies a "total" and also a problem in arithmetic. A painting of a landscape
does not attempt to imitate the scene; it uses colors and forms as symbols which serve for
expression. The meaning attaching to these symbols derives from common acceptance and usage,
Japanese painting, rendering the abstract spirit of movement of a wave, for example, rather
than the concrete details of its surface appearance, differs fundamentally from the painting
of the western world; it is none the less pregnant with meaning for those who know the convention.
To understand language, therefore, we must understand the convention and accept its terms.
The value of language as a means of expression and communication depends upon the knowledge,
common to the user and to the person addressed, of the signification of its terms. Its effectiveness
is determined by the way in which it is employed, involving the choice of terms, as the true
line for the false or meaningless one, the right value or note of color out of many that would
almost do, the exact and specific word rather than the vague and feeble; involving also the
combination of terms into articulate forms. These ways and methods in the use of language are
the concern of technique. 

Sues City, see Suez.

Suessouer (Suessones), brave and powerful people in Gallia Belgica, the over 50,000 armed men presented,
and its king Divitiacus before Caesar's time the most powerful among the princes of Gaul was inhabited
a vast and fertile land between the Seine and the Aisne, and had
twelve cities under which Noviodunum, later Augusta Suessonum (Soissons),
the capital was.

Suetonius, Gaius Tranquillus S., Roman historian who lived around AD 70-140, dedicated to Rome
rhetorical and grammatical studies, then went there as a judicial orator on, was appointed to
the Master epistolarum under Hadrian, but this place again and lost seems to have from now on
exclusively devoted to literary activity.

He compiled 120, the almost-complete biographies of the twelve emperors
from Julius Caesar to Domitian (De vita Caesarum "), which in a simple
and clear language a

424

Suevi - Suez Canal.

Quantity of valuable notes on the Emperor in question included. We also still have Parts of a script:
"De grammaticis et rhetoribus" (edited by Osann, casting 1854th), and biographies of Terence,
Horace, Lucan (the latter is incomplete) and the remains of a biography of the elder Pliny, all probably
greater remains one of his written work: "De viris illustribus. From other writings only the
names and minor fragments survive, which also his name leading biographies of Virgil and Persius
are probably spurious. Expenditure provided Burmann (Amsterd. 1735, 2 vols), Oudendorp (Leid.
1751), Ernesti (Leipzig, 1748, 2nd Ed 1772), Wolf (ibid. 1802, 4 vols) and Roth (ibid. 1858)
and recent translations Reichardt (Stuttgart 1855 ff), Stahr (2nd edition, this 1874, 2 vols)
and Sarrazin (ibid. 1883, 2 vols). Of S. other writings besides the
"Vitae" are specifically published by Reifferscheid (Leipzig, 1860).

Suevi (Suevi), name of a german. League of Nations, which probably the same in the east of existing
less on agriculture than from hunting and livestock living military, hiking funny ("roving")
Strains included, later name of a single people. Caesar, who invaded the Gaul defeated S.
Ariovistus under 58 BC, conceives under the name behind the Ubiern Sigambern and resident Germans
and reports that they are 100 districts, each with militant 10.000 Men counted, but far from his crossing
of the Rhine, to the forest Bacenis, withdrawn had. They should have had no fixed residence,
but each year, partly due to war Companies be extended. Tacitus calls the whole eastern Germania from
the Danube to Suevia to the Baltic Sea. The Hermunduri he regarded as the foremost, the Semnones
as the most prestigious, the Lombards as the boldest among the suevischen peoples. The service
of Nerthus (Hertha) S. was all together. The man, Marko Marbod suevische peoples united under his Scepter,
and still later, to Marcus Aurelius' time, are referred to as S. Marcomanni and Quaden. In the age
of migration, the name was limited to S. Semnones. A part of the same took part in the 406 at
the Verwüstungszug Radagaisus. 409 they invaded it with the Vandals and Alans crossed the
Pyrenees to Spain before, then spread to the south of Rechila Lusitania and Baetica out. Rechilas Rechiar
son got 456 against the Visigoth king Theodoric II victory and life, and his successor draw mouth
was Eurich for the recognition of sovereignty forced the Visigoths. King Theodemir came from
Arianism to Catholicism. 585 was suevische the kingdom to the Visigoth incorporated. In Germany,
the name of the S. the Swabians obtained.

Suez (Suez), city in Egypt, at the northern tip of the Red Sea, which here in the Gulf S. expires
at the mouth of the Suez Canal (qv) in the same and the railroad Cairo-Ismailia-S., with (1882), 10.919
inhabitants, among foreigners in 1183. The city consists of the Arab quarter and the regular
part of the European district, with large warehouses, magazines of the Peninsular and Oriental-Dampfergesellschast
and a vice-regal mansion. Northeast of the mouth of the 2 m above sea level here. M. lying freshwater
canal lock works with a large, north-west of a large English Hospital. The port facilities which are
built out in S. far into the sea, leads a 3 km long dam, on the railroad running to the basin
of the canal company with Lighthouse and the statue of Lieutenant Waghorn. The large harbor basin,
Port Ibrahim is called by a huge wall in the war and the trade port divorced and may take 500
ships. Trade has not yet focused here, but more to Port Said and Alexandria drawn, and S.'s
more of a crossing point remained. 1886 was the importation of 594.385, the Export 42.697 Egyptian
pounds. The city is the seat of a German consul. Probably S. is listed on the site of the old enema,
as the Arabs Quolzum. It was before the discovery the sea route to India around the Cape as
a major defeat of European and Indian goods a thriving place fell
into disrepair, but after that, and counted at the beginning of the
canals only 1500 inhabitants

Suez canal ship canal to connect the
Mediterranean and the Red Sea through intersections of only 113 km
wide isthmus of S. (see the by-tile on the map "Mediterranean").

This channel is, as mapped out by nature, by the Isthmus itself only as a to consider the Gulf of St.
perpetuating subsidence is the highest in its place, at El Gisr, only 16 m above sea level. M.
lies, and their piercing through three lakes (Ballah, Timsah- and Bitter) had to be facilitated
even higher. Already in the 14th Century BC, the construction of the Nile to Timsahsee and
from there to the Red Sea carrying channel by the two great ruler Seti I and Ramses II performed
to their fleet from one to the other bring to sea. This channel (ta altägypt. Tenant, "the
penetration") was probably by neglecting to reason, and only towards the end of the 7th Century
BC, it took Necho (616-600), a son Psammetichus I, a new channel from the Nile to build the
Red Sea, but by oracle (because it would benefit only the "strangers") has been suspended after
its construction 120 000 people had been killed. First Hystaspis Darius (521-486) ​​completed
the work of Necho, which was under the Ptolemies still significantly improved. But Cleopatra's
time to have the channel was partially silted up again, and what, under the Romans, was especially
under Emperor Trajan (98-117 AD), for the channel, does not seem very been meaning to be. After
the Arabs conquered Egypt, it was Amr, the commander Caliph Omar, who in the 7th Century the
canal from Cairo to the Red Sea re-established and grain truck used, in the 8th Cent, but he
was again totally useless call today and only faint traces of the old plant at the former pharaohs,
Persians, Ptolemies, Roman Emperors and Arab caliphs built. The credit of first return to the
have pointed out advantages of a maritime canal between the Mediterranean and the Red Sea, due
Leibniz, who wrote in this sense in 1671 to Louis XIV. Bonaparte was occasionally his expedition
to Egypt in 1798 by engineer Lepère surveys for the construction of a direct Make channel. Unfortunately
Lepère came to the old times, when incorrectly labeled result that the mirror of the Red Sea
9.908 m was higher than that of the Mediterranean. This startled of further attempts. When finally
in 1841 by barometric measurements, British officers the error was detected, tried in vain Metternich
in 1843, Mehemet Ali having to

425

Suffet - Suffolk.

Interested until finally in 1854 Ferdinand von Lesseps (sd) at the
Viceroy Said support found. received after overcoming many difficulties
this last fifth Jan. 1856 by the Porte a firman for the concession
of the canal and to form a corporation.

This company came under the name of universal Compagnie du Canal Maritime de Suez, together and was
a privilege for 99 years, is the time for channel to Egypt. On 25. April 1859 was made at Port
Said at the northern end of the channel, the first sod. The measure the difficulties to be resolved
was a tremendous. All materials, tools, machines, Coal, iron, each piece of wood had to be brought
from Europe. 1862 were from the 1800 Last camels the company alone in 1600 the daily transport
of drinking water to 25,000 workers in claim taken so that the daily output for 8000 Frank was
drinking. So it was above all Things only need to complete the freshwater channel which drinking water
from the Nile to the isthmus should lead. At the same sagas diverted from the Nile from, out first
in an easterly direction to Ismailia, and thence south to Suez; lock works with the opportunity to
address a larger or to supply less water. In the mirror he reached a width of 17, the share of
8 m, but he is only 2 1 / 2 m deep on average. Its completion was 29th December 1863, resulting
in a yearly issue was spared from 3 million francs. With machine forces to 22.000 Horse-power was
represented, despite some unfortunate cases (outbreak of cholera and to following desertion of all
workers), in spite of diplomatic and financial difficulties continued to work vigorously so that
as early 18th Nov. 1862, the waters of the Mediterranean in the Timsahsee could flow in to fill
the 80 million cubic meters were necessary. On the northwest shore this lake was the residence
of the channel management, the city of Ismailia, to which the new Railway from Cairo and Alexandria
was put out, while the old Cairo-Suez desert railway was abandoned. On 18 March 1869 was the inlet
of the Mediterranean water in the Bitter Lake, and 16 Nov. 1869 was attended by many princes, and
a vast array of charged Europeans, the opening of the channel with festivities held to the 20 million
Chedive Fri should have cost. The canal is 160 km, the width at the water level 58-100 m, on the
sole 22 m, depth 8 m. It starts at the Mediterranean at Port Said with two enormous in the
sea jetties built of 2250 and 1600 m length which the outer harbor of Port Said hold form and
the currents induced by western Nile mud. The channel enters then in a southerly direction into
the Menzalehsee, where he surrounded on both sides of dams is the same leaves at kilometer
45 and the El Kantara reached called ground survey, which he cuts through to 4 km to enter the
Ballahsee. After this exited, followed by the stations El and El Ferdan Gisr, then the channel
enters the wide, blue area of ​​the Timsahsees one, lies at the northwest end of Ismailia, and
he at Tousoun leaves to break through the 16 km long rock threshold of the Serapeum. The now at
Kilometer 95 following bitter lakes form a beautiful, 220 sq km water area, the rings surrounded
by deserts and at the inlet and outlet of the channel is provided with lighthouses. At El Schaluf,
at the southern end of the Bitter Lakes, are already having ebb and flow of the Red Sea noticeable,
which is reached at kilometer 156th Southeast of the city of Suez, the canal channel for 4 km
far out into the sea, to finally reach at 9 m depth, the harbor of Suez. The construction cost
of the canal amounted to about 19 million pounds Sterl., Of which 12,800,000 raised through
share subscriptions were revealed during the rest of the Chedive. Letzterm bought England
in 1875, the acquired nor unplacierten shares (177.602 shares with a value of 3.5 million Pounds
Sterl.) AB. By the end of 1884 with the inclusion of the improvements have been expended for
the channel 488 million francs, while the assets amounted to 76.7 million Fri. The revenue of the
society were 1872 for the first time a surplus of 2 million francs, which rose in 1887 to 29.7
million francs. Also ship traffic proves the complete success of the company. It used the
channel 1887: 3137 ships of 5,903,024 net tons of content, including 2330 English, 185 French, 159
Dutch, 159 German, 82 Austria-Hungary, 138 Italian, etc. The number of travelers amounted to
182.998 with the inclusion of soldiers. The revenue amounted to 60.5, spending to 30.8 million
Fri What the initials of the distances between Europe and the East is concerned, is the same for
the boat trip from Brindisi to Bombay 37, Trieste 37, of Genoa, 32, of Marseiile 31, Bordeaux
24, from Liverpool 24, from London 24, Amsterdam 24, from Hamburg 24 days. After that, make
time savings in the journey directions to other ports. Of course, to also take into consideration
whether to be transported Were the costly channel-inch (10 francs per tonne net weight) to assets
transferred. Manufactures, Steel, fine metal goods, silk, tea, coffee, cotton, etc. may be
unconditional channel capable Goods shall, while a long freight contract end goods advantageous
way around the Cape . Take See Lesseps, Lettres, journal et documents à l'histoire du canal de Suez
par (1881, 5 vols), Volkmann, S. and its extension (in "channels", Berl.1886); Krukenberg, the flux
the Isthmus of S. (Heidelb. 1888).

Suffet ("Judges"), the chief magistrates at Carthage (sd, p. 566).

Sufficit (Latin), just enough out.

Suffisance (French, spr ssüffisängs.), Complacency, arrogant self-sufficiency; smugly, gegenü neighborhood,
complacent, conceited.

Suffix (Latin) suffix at the end of a word attached syllable; see
inflection.

Suffiency (Latin), enough, enough.

Sufflenheim, stains Bring it in the German Lower Alsace, Haguenau circle, at the Eberbach has
factories for ceramics and refractory bricks, timber trade and (1885)
3158 mostly Catholic.

Inhabitants.

Suffocatio (Latin), suffocation (sd).

Suffolk (pronounced ssöffok), Eng. County on the North Sea, 3820 square kilometers (69.4 sq.m.)
with large (1881) 356.893 inhabitants, is generally undulating and mostly sandy and flattens out
after Coast, where stretches of marshes occur.

The most important rivers are the Stour (border river against Essex),
Orwell, Wavenay (the river to Norfolk) and Ouse with the Lark.

Agriculture and Cattle are on high heat.

Keeps you here a race of ungehörnten cows, which tremendously much milk, the Suf-

426

Suffolk - suggestion.

folk sheep are short, but very fine wool. 63 per cent of the surface are under the plow, 18 per
cent consist of meadows. 1888, there were 41.534 acres horse, 63.258 cattle, sheep 422.150
130.887 and pigs. In the manufacture of agricultural machines makes S. diminishing, other branches
the industry are irrelevant. Capital is Ipswich.

Suffolk (pronounced ssöffok), Eng. Title of nobility, first as counts of the Clifford family, since 14. Cent
of the family as dukes poles of S. The last execution of this house was 1513th Henry VIII bestowed
the title of his favorite, Charles Brandon, the husband of his sister Mary, whose son Henry Gray
of Edward VI. 1551 was elevated to Duke of S.. The same was in addition to his daughter Johanna
Gray (see Gray 1) beheaded 1554th Soon got Lord Thomas Howard, son of the fourth Duke of Norfolk,
who in 1597 created Baron Howard was in 1603 the title of Count of S. Even in the fight against
the invincible fleet Philip II, he had distinguished themselves,
under James I, he was privy 1603 and 1605, Lord Chief Treasurer, in
which capacity he distinguished himself that the discovery of the
Gunpowder Plot.

1614-18 He was Lord High Treasurer, but was discharged in 1618, accused of corruption and set
in the Tower, from which he was freed, but after a few days.

He died 1626th His second son was charged in 1626 for the Earl of
Berkshire and is the ancestral father of the current Counts of S.
and Berkshire, current head of the firm is John Charles Howard, Earl
of S. and Berkshire, born 7th Nov. 1804th

Suffragan (Latin), each
seat and to vote (suffragium) authorized member of a college of clergy,
especially the (an archbishop child) diocesan bishop.

Universal suffrage (French, spr.

Ssüffrahsch üniwersséll), see universal suffrage.

Suffragium (Latin), the voice of the Roman citizens of the electors
(sd) or as a judge in criminal processes (judicia publica) gave, the
vote on the whole, the right to vote itself

Suffrutex (Latin), s.
shrub.

Suffusion (Latin Hyphämie), diffuse Blutunterlaufung of greater expansion in the Gewebsmaschen,
as especially under the skin of bruises, beatings with blunt instruments, in rare Cases occur spontaneously,
such as purpura, scurvy, etc.

Sufism (Sofismus), the mysticism of the Muslims, according to which man is an emanation (Emanations)
of God is back and seeks reunification with it. His followers hot Sufi ("Dressed wool"), since,
under the custom of the first founders of the 3rd Century after Mohammed wearing only woolen clothing,
but no longer the case. The Sufi differ three stations in their order: that of the method on
which the Muslim prescribed Cleaners and prayers is doing outside, and the knowledge of where
he recognizes that all external religious practice has no real value, rather the study of sacred
Sufi writings and meditative sinking is dedicated to the deity, and finally to the Certainty
on which he knows himself to be one with God and therefore superior to all asceticism is. As founder
of the S., notably in Asia Minor and Persia, in India spread found an Arab Persians from Iraq
called, apply to its most important representatives The Persian poet
Rumi and Dschelal eddin Frerid eddin Attar from Nishabur as well as
the famous poets Hafez and Saadi.

See Tholuck, S., immersive Theosophia Persarum pantheistica (Berl. 1821), Kremer, history of
dominant ideas of Islam (Leipzig, 1868), Palmer, Oriental mysticism (Lond. 1867); Gobineau,
Les Religions et les philosophes dans l'Asie Centrale (2nd Ed, para 1866).

Suganathal (Valsugana) Flußthal the Brenta, where it flows through Tyrolean area, pulls from
the sources of the Brenta from 50 km to the Italian border, where
at Tezze turns into a wild ravine, containing the lakes of Levico
and Caldonazzo, has abundant vegetation Wine and silk culture, and
about 70.000 inhabitants.

Important locations are Pergine, Levico, Borgo and Roncegno the seaside resort. The name is derived
from the tribe of the Euganeer, which here were located.

Sugatag (pronounced shu), village in the county ungar. Marmaros in Marmaros-Sziget, with large
salt works plant (Annual production of 165.000 metric. Cwt of salt). From mine out a 20 km long narrow
gauge Train to Marmaros-Sziget.

Suger (pronounced ssühsche), French prelate and statesman, born 1081 at St-Omer, since 1122
Abbot of St.-Denis had under Louis VI. Louis VII and significant influence on the political system,
improved the judiciary, promoted agriculture, trade and commerce,
favored the cities, was while Louis VII Crusade 1147-49 Regent kingdom,
raised the power of the monarchy, and died 12th Jan. 1151st He wrote,
among other things: "Vita Ludovici VI."

(Edited by Molinier, para 1887) and "De rebus in sua GESTIS administration
(at Duchesne," Scriptor ", Vol 5).

His life described Combes (par. 1853) and Nettement (3rd edition, this 1868).

Suggest (Latin), enter you something, cause him to influence anything.

Suggestion (French, "inspiration"), the instillation of certain concepts in hypnosis (see Hypnotism).
The experience of recent years have proved that the intellectual influence much of the hypnotism
of their independent and logical thinking persons deprived allow further expansion, as there was
a tendency by then to believe, and that this amazing Effects can be achieved. Richet, Paris
wants a woman of middle years in succession have suggested that she was a peasant woman, an
actress, an old general, a preacher, a nun, an old woman, a small child, a young man, etc., and
they had always the imaginary part be referred. In a recently negotiated process to Pforzheim were among
the persons in the artificially excited delusion to be dogs, been rushed to other commodities. The
famous psychologist J. Delboeuf in Liège a person even successfully pre-talk, it was a heated
iron stove or a burning oil lamp. The dreamer just lacks any logic and ability to own by thinking
of a peremptory Delusion snatch. One can understand the danger of the power of an unscrupulous Hypnotist
over his victims, and there are already several cases have come before the courts, in which
women under the pretext of intercourse with her husband, abused or
written Donations have been initiated.

It is therefore of greatest concern, without the presence of a Trusted
person can hypnotisierenzu.

Some

427

Mental suggestion - Suifon.

researchers, especially Charkot in Paris, but also Krafft-Ebing in Graz, Oberstein in Vienna
and other German authorities have given is true in modern times, go even further and claim
It could be by S. impressions of body and mind bring forth life, beyond the hypnotic carry out
work and so curative effects, character changes, educative influences,
etc. could. Krafft-Ebing will of a person's body temperature, they
show the next morning should, and a French doctor by the inspiration
of another, they will be with glowing have iron burned, produces even
blisters. Also, personal attacks, crime etc. after the hypnosis is
a push by S. can be given. This information must but careful examination.


There is, then, no invariable standard external to the work itself by which to judge technique.
For no art is final. A single work is the manifestation of beauty as the individual artist
has conceived or felt it. The perception of what is beautiful varies from age to age and with
each person. So, too, standards of beauty in art change with each generation; commonly they
are deduced from the practice of preceding artists. Classicism formulates rules from works
that have come to be recognized as beautiful, and it requires of the artist conformity to these
rules. By this standard, which it regards as absolute, it tries a new work, and it pretends
to adjudge the work good or bad according as it meets the requirements. Then a Titan emerges
who defies the canons, wrecks the old order, and in his own way, to the despair or scorn of
his contemporaries, creates a work which the generation that follows comes to see is beautiful.
"Every author," says Wordsworth, "as far as he is great and at the same time original, has
had the task of creating the taste by which he is to be enjoyed." Wordsworth in his own generation
was ridiculed; Millet, when he ceased painting nudes for art-dealers' windows and ventured
to express himself, faced starvation. Every artist is in some measure an innovator; for his
own age he is a romanticist. But the romanticist of one age becomes a classic for the next;
and his performance in its turn gives laws to his successors. Richard Strauss, deriving in
some sense from Wagner, makes the older man seem a classic and conservative. Then a new mind
again is raised up, a new temperament, with new needs; and these shape their own adequate new
expression. "The cleanest expression," says Whitman, "is that which finds no sphere worthy
of itself and makes one." As all life is growth, as there are no bounds to the possibilities
of human experience, so the workings of the art-impulse cannot be compressed within the terms
of a hard and narrow definition, and any abstract formula for beauty is in the very nature
of things foredoomed to failure. No limit can be set to the forms in which beauty may be made
manifest.

"The true poets are not followers of beauty, but the august masters of beauty." And Whitman's
own verse is a notable example of a new technique forged in response to a new need of expression.
Dealing as he did with the big basic impulses of common experience accessible to all men, Whitman
needed a largeness and freedom of expression which he did not find in the accepted and current
poetic forms. To match the limitlessly diversified character of the people, occupations, and
aspirations of "these States," as yet undeveloped but vital and inclosing the seed of unguessed-at
possibilities, to tally the fluid, indeterminate, outward-reaching spirit of democracy and
a new world, the poet required a medium of corresponding scope and flexibility, all-inclusive
and capable of endless modulation and variety. Finding none ready to his hand, he created it.
Not that Whitman did not draw for his resources on the great treasury of world-literature;
and he profited by the efforts and achievement of predecessors. But the form in his hands and
as he uses it is new. Whatever we may think of the success of his total accomplishment, there
are very many passages to which we cannot deny the name of poetry. Nor did Whitman work without
conscious skill and deliberate regard for technical processes. His note-books and papers reveal
the extreme calculation and pains with which he wrote, beginning with the collection of synonyms
applying to his idea and mood, and so building them up gradually, with many erasures, corrections,
and substitutions, into the finished poem. Much of the vigor of his style is due to his escape
from conventional literary phrase-making and his return to the racy idiom of common life. His
verse, apparently inchoate and so different from classical poetic forms, is shaped with a cunning
incredible skill. And more than that, it is art, in that it is not a bare statement of fact,
but communicates to us the poet's emotion, so that we realize the emotion in ourselves. When
his purpose is considered, it is seen that no other technique was possible. His achievement
proves that a new need creates its own means of expression.

What is true of Whitman in respect to his technique is true in greater or less degree of every
artist, working in any form. It is true of Pheidias, of Giotto and Michelangelo and Rembrandt,
of Dante and Shakespeare, of Beethoven and Wagner, of Monet, of Rodin, in fine, from the beginnings
of art to the day that now is. All have created out of existing forms of expression their own
idiom and way of working. Every artist owes something to his predecessors, but language is
re-created in the hands of each master and becomes a new instrument. There can be then no single
formula for technical method nor any fixed and final standard of judgment.

An artist himself is justified from his own point of view in his concern with technique, for
upon his technique depends his effectiveness of expression. His practice serves to keep alive
the language and to develop its resources. Art in its concrete manifestations is an evolution.
From Velasquez through Goya to Manet and Whistler is a line of inheritance. But a true artist
recognizes that technique is only a means. As an artist he is seeking to body forth in external
form the vision within, and he tries to make his medium "faithful to the coloring of his own
spirit." Every artist works out his characteristic manner; but the progress must be from within
outwards. Toward the shaping of his own style he is helped by the practice of others, but he
is helped and not hindered only in so far as the manner of others can be made genuinely the
expression of his own feeling. Direct borrowing of a trick of execution and servile imitation
of a style have no place in true art. A painter who would learn of Velasquez should study the
master's technique, not that in the end he may paint like Velasquez, but that he may discover
just what it was that the master, by means of his individual style, was endeavoring to express,
and so bring to bear on his own environment here in America to-day the same ability to see
and the same power of sympathetic and imaginative penetration that Velasquez brought to his
environment at the court of seventeenth-century Spain. The way to paint like Velasquez is to
be Velasquez. No man is a genius by imitation. Every man may seek to be a master in his own
right. Technique does not lead; it follows. Style is the man.

From within outwards. Art is the expression of sincere and vital feeling; the material thing,
picture, statue, poem, which the artist conjures into being is only a means. The moment art
is worshiped for its own sake, that moment decadence begins. "No one," says Leonardo, "will
ever be a great painter who takes as his guide the paintings of other men." In general the
history of art exhibits this course. In the beginning arises a man of deep and genuine feeling,
the language at whose command, however, has not been developed to the point where it is able
to carry the full burden of his meaning. In the generations which supervene, artists with less
fervor of spirit but with growing skill of hand, increased with each inheritance, turn their
efforts to the development of their means. The names of this period of experiment and research
are Masaccio, Uccello, Pollaiuolo, Verrocchio. At length, when the fullness of time is come,
emerges the master-mind, of original insight and creative power. Heir to the technical achievements
of his predecessors, he is able to give his transcendent idea its supremely adequate expression.
Content is perfectly matched by form. On this summit stand Michelangelo, Raphael, Leonardo.
Then follow the Carracci, Domenichino, Guercino, Guido Reni, Carlo Dolci, men who mistake the
master's manner for his meaning. The idea, the vital principle, has spent itself. The form
only is left, and that is elaborated into the exuberance of decay. Painters find their impulse
no longer in nature and life but in paint. Technique is made an end in itself. And art is dead,
to be reborn in another shape and guise.

The relation of technique to appreciation in the experience of the layman begins now to define
itself. Technique serves the artist for efficient expression; an understanding of it is of
value to the layman in so far as the knowledge helps him to read the artist's language and
thus to receive his message. Both for artist and for layman technique is only a means. Out
of his own intelligent and patient experience the layman can win his way to an understanding
of methods; and his standard of judgment, good enough for his own purposes, is the degree of
expressiveness which the work of art, by virtue of its qualities of execution, is able to achieve.
Skill may be enjoyed intellectually for its own sake as skill; in itself it is not art. Technique
is most successful when it is least perceived. Ars celare artem: art reveals life and conceals
technique. We must understand something of technique and then forget it in appreciation. When
we thrill to the splendor and glory of a sunset we are not thinking of the laws of refraction.
Appreciation is not knowledge, but emotion.

IV

THE VALUE OF THE MEDIUM

AS I swing through the wide country in the freshness and fullness of a blossoming, sun-steeped
morning in May, breathing the breath of the fields and the taller by inches for the sweep of
the hills and the reaches of sky above my head, every nerve in my body is alive with sensation
and delight. My joy is in the fragrance of earth, the ingratiating warmth of the fresh morning,
the spacious, inclosing air. My pleasure in this direct contact with the landscape is a physical
reaction, to be enjoyed only by the actual experience of it; it cannot be reproduced by any
other means; it can be recalled by memory but faintly and as the echo of sensation. There is,
however, something else in the landscape which can be reproduced; and this recall may seem
more glorious than the original in nature. There are elements in the scene which a painter
can render for me more intensely and vividly than I perceived them for myself. These elements
embody the value that the landscape has for my emotions. The scene appeals to something within
me which lies beyond my actual physical contact with it and the mere sense of touch. The harmony
that the eye perceives in these open fields, the gracious line of trees along the stream's
edge, the tossing hills beyond, and the arch of the blue sky above impregnating the earth with
light, is communicated to my spirit, and I feel that this reach of radiant country is an extension
of my own personality. A painter, by the manipulation of his color and line and mass, concentrates
and intensifies the harmony of it and so heightens its emotional value. The meaning of the
scene for the spirit is conveyed in terms of color and mass.

Color and mass are the painter's medium, his language. The final import of art is the idea,
the emotional content of the work. On his way to the expression of his idea the artist avails
himself of material to give his feeling concrete actuality and visible or audible realization.
He paints a picture, glorious in color and compelling in the concentration of its massing;
he carves a statue, noble in form or subtly rhythmic; he weaves a pattern of harmonious sounds.
He values objects not for their own sake but for the energies they possess,--their power to
rouse his whole being into heightened activity. And they have this power by virtue of their
material qualities, as color and form or sound. A landscape is gay in springtime or sad in
autumn. The difference in its effect upon us is not due to our knowledge that it is spring
or autumn and our consciousness of the associations appropriate to each season. The emotional
quality of the scene is largely a matter of its color. Let the spring landscape be shrouded
in gray mist sifting down out of gray skies, and we are sad. Let the autumn fields and woodland
sparkle and dance in the crisp golden sunlight, and our blood dances with them and we want
to shout from full lungs. In music the major key wakens a different emotion from the minor.
The note of a violin is virgin in quality; the voice of the 'cello is the voice of experience.
The distinctive emotional value of each instrument inheres in the character of its sound. These
qualities of objects art uses as its language.

Though all art is one in essence, yet each art employs a medium of its own. In order to understand
a work in its scope and true significance we must recognize that an artist thinks and feels
in terms of his special medium. His impulse to create comes with his vision, actual or imaginative,
of color or form, and his thought is transmitted to his hand, which shapes the work, without
the intervention of words. The nature of his vehicle and the conditions in which he works determine
in large measure the details of the form which his idea ultimately assumes. Thus a potter designs
his vessel first with reference to its use and then with regard to his material, its character
and possibilities. As he models his plastic clay upon a wheel, he naturally makes his bowl
or jug round rather than sharply angular. A pattern for a carpet, to be woven by a system of
little squares into the fabric, will have regard for the conditions in which it is to be rendered,
and it will differ in the character of its lines and masses from a pattern for a wall-paper,
which may be printed from blocks. The designer in stained glass will try less to make a picture
in the spirit of graphic representation than to produce an harmonious color-pattern whose outlines
will be guided and controlled by the possibilities of the "leading" of the window. The true
artist uses the conditions and very limitations of his material as his opportunity. The restraint
imposed by the sonnet form is welcomed by the poet as compelling a collectedness of thought
and an intensity of expression which his idea might not achieve if allowed to flow in freer
channels. The worker in iron has his triumphs; the goldsmith has his. The limitations of each
craft open to it effects which are denied to the other. There is an art of confectionery and
an art of sculpture. The designer of frostings who has a right feeling for his art will not
emulate the sculptor and strive to model in the grand style; the sculptor who tries to reproduce
imitatively the textures of lace or other fabrics and who exuberates in filigrees and fussinesses
so far departs from his art as to rival the confectioner. In the degree that a painter tries
to wrench his medium from its right use and function and attempts to make his picture tell
a story, which can better be told in words, to that extent he is unfaithful to his art. Painting,
working as it does with color and form, should confine itself to the expression of emotion
and idea that can be rendered visible. On the part of the appreciator, likewise, the emotion
expressed in one kind of medium is not to be translated into any other terms without a difference. See Perräbos, history by Suli
and Parga (neugriech., Venice, 1815, 2 vols,.. English, Lond 1823rd); Lüdemann, The Suliotenkrieg (Leipzig,
1825).

Sulkowski, a native of Poland, the noble families and Lodzia Sulima of house members, rich royal
family since 1752 in Poznan and Austria-Silesia, flowers in the two Lines of travel and Bielsko-Biala,
both by the count, since 1752 Prince Alex. Josh. v. S. (d. 1762) derived. The former belonged
to Paul Anton, Prince S., born 31 December 1785, the Poniatowski's death after some time commanded the
rest of the Polish army and then Adjutant General the Emperor Alexander I was, died 13th April
1836th He was succeeded by his son August Anton, Prince S., born 13th December 1820, in the
ordinate travel and in the county of Lissa, and after his death (20 Nov 1882), Prince Anton, born
6 Feb. 1844th Duke of Bielsko-Biala is currently Prince Joseph S.,
birth 2 Feb. 1848th

Sulla, 1) Lucius Cornelius, Roman dictator, born
in 138 BC as the scion of one of the gene

430

Süllberg - Sullivan.

Cornelia belonging to patrician family, was for a frivolous partly
in amusement, partly in literary pursuits youth spent 107 in Jugurthine
war Treasurer the Consul Marius and contributed significantly to the
happy ending of the war, that he the king of Mauritania Bocchus through
skillful negotiations to delivery of the Jugurtha moved.

He was then 93 praetor, and after it is in the Marsic war as leader a division of the Roman army
which had particularly distinguished, he was consul for 88 elected and entrusted with the leadership
of the (first) Mithridatic War. As he already had gone to Nola in Campania to his army, was signed
in Rome by the People's Party Leadership of P. Sulpicius Rufus tribune of the supreme command
in war, Mithridates Marius transferred. Page therefore returned back to the head of his army
to Rome, beat his opponent and outlawed the most prominent among them, also met some arrangements
that serve should secure the peace in the city, but devoted himself entirely to the first guide
he applied the war, without worrying about the events in Rome, where his Opponents seized soon
among the greatest atrocities of violence, Marius 86 for the seventh time Was consulted and
large armies were collected to the dreaded battle to exist with S. can. ended happily as this
war with Mithridates (see Mithridates) had returned He returned at the head of 40,000 men to Italy,
overcame a series of battles his opponents, most recently the younger Gaius Marius in Sacriportus
and mainly Samnites existing army under the walls of Rome, and was 82 for dictator indefinitely
appointed. As such, he was first to secure his position by making a large amount proscribed his
enemies, that made her name with proscription lists known and put a price on her head, and
by the lands of the bloody civil war in the Perished under his veterans distributed and 10,000
slaves gave the freedom that him as their patron saint to some extent served as a bodyguard.
But then he adopted, mainly for the purpose of an aristocratic republic form of government to give
a series of laws (Leges Cornelia), under which the return of the courts to the Senate and the
reduction the power of the tribunes of the people are stressed to its original low level especially.
Than he has achieved his goal but believed (he loved it, its success not to his credit, but
attributed his good fortune, and was therefore like the lucky ones to call Felix,), He put 79
down the dictatorship and retired to Puteoli, where, without, however, the withdraw completely
public affairs, mainly lived his pleasure, died However, already 78th He wrote in Latin memoirs
of his life, the last His book freedman Epicadus completed and Plutarch in his biography of use of
the S. added. Recent biographies provided Zacharia (Heidelb. 1834) and Lau (Hamb. 1855).

2) Faustus Cornelius, son of the former, born around 88 BC, was used in the third Mithridatic War under
Pompey and was the first to 63 climbed the walls of the Temple of Jerusalem; 54, he held the
Police. During the Civil War he sided with Pompey, whose daughter he was married. After the battle
of Pharsalia, he fled to Africa after the battle at Thapsos (46), he fell into Caesar's hands
and was murdered by his soldiers.

3) Publius Cornelius, son of the dictator's brother, S., Ward 66 BC
the consul for the following Elected annually, but before he took
office, because office surreptitiously (ambitus) charged and convicted.

He was 62 again accused of participation in the conspiracy Catilinarian, but defended by Hortensius
and Cicero and acquitted.
 But the final meaning of a picture resides in
the total harmony of color and form, a harmony into which we can project our whole personality
and which itself constitutes the emotional experience.

All language in its material aspect has a sensuous value, as the wealth of color of Venetian
painting, the sumptuousness of Renaissance architecture, the melody of Mr. Swinburne's verse,
the gem-like brilliance of Stevenson's prose, the all-inclusive sensuousness, touched with
sensuality, of Wagner's music-dramas. Because of the charm of beautiful language there are
many art-lovers who regard the sensuous qualities of the work itself as making up the entire
experience. Apart from any consideration of intention or expressiveness, the material thing
which the artist's touch summons into form is held to be "its own excuse for being."

This order of enjoyment, valid as far as it goes, falls short of complete appreciation. It
does not pass the delight one has in the radiance of gems or the glowing tincture of some fabric.
The element of meaning does not enter in. There is a beauty for the eye and a beauty for the
mind. The qualities of material may give pleasure to the senses; the object embodying these
qualities becomes beautiful only as it is endowed with a significance wakened in the human
spirit. A landscape, says Walter Crane, "owes a great part of its beauty to the harmonious
relation of its leading lines, or to certain pleasant contrasts, or a certain impressiveness
of form and mass, and at the same time we shall perceive that this linear expression is inseparable
from the sentiment or emotion suggested by that particular scene." In the appreciation of art,
to stop with the sensuous appeal of the medium is to mistake means for an end. An artist's
color, glorious or tender, is only a symbol and manifestation to sense of his emotion. At first
glance Titian's portrait of the "Man with the Glove" is an ineffable color-harmony. But truly
seen it is infinitely more. By means of color and formal design Titian has embodied here his
vision of superb young manhood; by the expressive power of his material symbols he has rendered
visible his sense of dignity, of fineness, of strength in reserve. The color is beautiful because
his idea was beautiful. Through the character of this young man as revealed and interpreted
by the artist, the beholder is brought into contact with a vital personality, whose influence
is communicated to him; in the appreciation of Titian's message he sees and feels and lives.

The value of the medium resided not in the material itself but in its power for expression.
When language is elaborated at the expense of the meaning, we have in so far forth sham art.
It should be easy to distinguish in art between what is vital and what is mechanical. The mechanical
is the product of mere execution and calls attention to the manner. The vital is born out of
inspiration, and the living idea transmutes its material into emotion. Quite as it seemed to him now,
quite so, because he was deemed to have pushed him to the brain,
the neck and shoulders.

"By the way," he said abruptly, and was falling all over red, "because
to me: the meeting is indeed tomorrow.

(A clever would perhaps have said: In a week) If You will not regret your invitation, I take
it now still on. "

Mansfeld suppressed a smile and said that it could be nothing more
enjoyable than this decision.

Asmus and went.

XLVIII. Chapter.

"Again, a Salome dancing: again it begs the head of John" John Chrysostom.

When the two men came into the living room, they found women's field with a hand, Miss Chavonne
to prepare for class the following day deals. The young lady was sitting with his back to the
light, but nevertheless believed to Asmus noted that they troubled and pale. Although she smiled
as she shook hands with him then, and he doubted but not because he was her uncomfortable
and unwelcome.

Mansfield took his picture forth, and Asmus took it in visually, he would have been obligated
member of a jury, would have the good Mansfeld probably not get to
hear too much flattering, but except that Asmussen is not at all felt
as a connoisseur, he was not among those "Unwavering" professors,
who say the truth even if they only hurt and no benefits, so he made
the innocent amateurism Mansfeldens next to some exhibitions some
balsamic compliments.

After dinner, Mansfield said: "I you have not heard for so long - do not you a poem to speak? "

Asmus,
without having to stand out, stood up and spoke, but in view of the presence of Women with some
embarrassment, "The singer's curse. Mrs. Mansfield was a very busy
and practical woman and had no rest even during the most terrible
curse the hook; Hilde but that had now resorted to a piece of embroidery
was, after the first verse hands fall into her lap and listened with
wide eyes.

In the art which most completely achieves expression the medium is not perceived as distinct
from the emotion of which the medium is the embodiment. In order to render expressive the material
employed in its service, art seeks constantly to identify means and end, to make the form one
with the content. The wayfarer out of his need of shelter built a hut, using the material which
chance gave into his hand and shaping his design according to his resources; the purpose of
his work was not the hut itself but shelter. So the artist in any form is impelled to creation
by his need of expression; the thing which he creates is not the purpose and end of his effort,
but only the means. Each art has its special medium, and each medium has its peculiar sensuous
charm and its own kind of expressiveness. This power of sensuous delight is incidental to the
real beauty of the work; and that beauty is the message the work is framed to convey to the
spirit. In the individual work, the inspiring and shaping idea seeks so to fuse its material
that we feel the idea could not have been phrased in any other way as we surrender to its ultimate
appeal,--the sum of the emotional content which gave it birth and in which it reaches its fulfillment.

V

THE BACKGROUND OF ART

SCENE: The main hall of the Accademia in Venice.

Time: Noon of a July day.

Dramatis personae: A guide; two drab-colored and tired men; a group of women, of various ages,
equipped with red-covered little volumes, and severally expressive of great earnestness, wide-eyed
rapture, and giggles.

The guide, in strident, accentless tones: Last work of Titian. Ninety-nine years old. He died
of smallpox.

A woman: Is that it?

A high voice on the outskirts: I'm going to get one for forty dollars.

Another voice: Well, I'm not going to pay more than fifty for mine.

A straggler: Eliza, look at those people. Oh, you missed it! (Stopping suddenly?) My, isn't
that lovely!

Chorus: Yes, that's Paris Bordone. Which one is that? He has magnificent color.

The guide: The thing you want to look at is the five figures in front.

A voice: Oh, that's beautiful. I love that.

A man: Foreshortened; well, I should say so! But I say, you can't remember all these pictures.

The other man: Let's get out of this!

The guide, indicating a picture of the Grand Canal: This one has been restored.

A girl's voice: Why, that's the house where we are staying!

The guide: The next picture . . .

The squad shuffles out of range.

This little comedy, enacted in fact and here faithfully reported, is not without its pathos.
These people are "studying art." They really want to understand, and if possible, to enjoy.
They have visited galleries and seen many pictures, and they will visit other galleries and
see many more pictures before their return home. They have read guide-books, noting the stars
and double stars; they have dipped into histories of art and volumes of criticism. They have
been told to observe the dramatic force of Giotto, the line of Botticelli, the perfect composition
of Raphael, the color of Titian; all this they have done punctiliously. They know in a vague
way that Giotto was much earlier than Raphael, that Botticelli was rather pagan than Christian,
that Titian belonged to the Venetian school. They have come to the fountain head of art, the
very works themselves as gathered in the galleries; they have tried to remember what they have
read and to do what they have been told; and now they are left still perplexed and unsatisfied.

The difficulty is that these earnest seekers after knowledge of art have laid hold on partial
truths, but they have failed to see these partial truths in their right relation to the whole.
The period in which an artist lived means something. His way of thinking and feeling means
something. The quality of his color means something. But what does his picture mean? These
people have not quite found the key by which to piece the fragments of the puzzle into the
complete design. They miss the central fact with regard to art; and as a consequence, the ways
of approach to the full enjoyment of art, instead of bringing them nearer the centre, become
for them a network of by-paths in which they enmesh themselves, and they are left to wander
helplessly up and down and about in the blind-alleys of the labyrinth. The central fact with
regard to art is this, that a work of art is the expression of some part of the artist's experience
of life, his vision of some aspect of the world. For the appreciator, the work takes on a meaning
as it becomes for him in his turn the expression of his own actual or possible experience and
thus relates itself by the subtle links of feeling to his own life. This is the central fact;
but there are side issues. Any single work of art is in itself necessarily finite. Because
of limitations in both the artist and the appreciator the work cannot express immediately and
completely of itself all that the author wished to convey; it can present but a single facet
of his many-sided radiating personality. What is actually said may be reinforced by some understanding
on the beholder's part of what was intended. In order to win its fullest message, therefore,
the appreciator must set the work against the large background out of which it has proceeded.

A visitor in the Salon Carré of the Louvre notes that there are arrayed before him pictures
by Jan van Eyck and Memling, Raphael and Leonardo, Giorgione and Titian, Rembrandt and Metsu,
Rubens and Van Dyck, Fouquet and Poussin, Velasquez and Murillo. Each one bears the distinctive
impress of its creator. How different some of them, one from another,--the Virgin of Van Eyck
from the Virgin of Raphael, Rembrandt's "Pilgrimsat Emmaus" from the "Entombment" by Titian.
Yet between others there are common elements of likeness. Raphael and Titian are distinguished
by an opulence of form and a luxuriance of color which reveal supreme technical accomplishment
in a fertile land under light-impregnated skies. The rigidity and restraint of Van Eyck and
Memling suggest the tentative early efforts of the art of a sober northern race. To a thoughtful
student of these pictures sooner or later the question comes, Whence are these likenesses and
these differences?

Hitherto I have referred to the creative mind and executive hand as generically the artist.
I have thought of him as a type, representative of all the great class of those who feel and
express, and who by means of their expression communicate their feeling. Similarly I have spoken
of the work of art, as though it were complete in itself and isolated, sprung full-formed and
panoplied from the brain of its creator, able to win its way and consummate its destiny alone.
The type is conceived intellectually; in actual life the type resolves itself into individuals.
So there are individual artists, each with his own distinctive gifts and ideals, each with
his own separate experience of life, with his personal and special vision of the world, and
his characteristic manner of expression. Similarly, a single work of art is not an isolated
phenomenon; it is only a part of the artist's total performance, and to these other works it
must be referred. The kind of work an artist sets himself to do is determined to some extent
by the period into which he was born and the country in which he lived. The artist himself,
heir to the achievements of his predecessors, is a development, and his work is the product
of an evolution. A work of art, therefore, to be judged aright and truly appreciated, must
be seen in its relation to its background, from which it detaches itself at the moment of consideration,--the
background of the artist's personality and accomplishment and of the national life and ideals
of his time.

If the layman's interest in art is more than the casual touch-and-go of a picture here, a concert
there, and an entertaining book of an evening, he is confronted with the important matter of
the study of art as it manifests itself through the ages and in diverse lands. It is not a
question of practicing an art himself, for technical skill lies outside his province. The study
of art in the sense proposed has to do with the consideration of an individual work in its
relation to all the factors that have entered into its production. The work of an artist is
profoundly influenced by the national ideals and way of life of his race and of his age. The
art of Catholic Italy is ecclesiastical; the art of the Protestant North is domestic and individual.
The actual form an artist's work assumes is modified by the resources at his disposal,--resources
both of material and of technical methods. Raphael may have no more to say than Giotto had,
but he is able to express himself in a fuller and more finished way, because in his time the
language of painting had become richer and more varied and the rhetoric of it had been carried
to a farther point of development. Finally, as all art is in essence the expression of personality,
a single work is to be understood in its widest intention and scope by reference to the total
personality of the individual artist as manifested in his work collectively, and to be interpreted
by the appreciator through his knowledge of the artist's experience of life.

In order to wrest its fullest expressiveness from a work of art it is necessary as far as possible
to regard the work from the artist's own point of view. We must try to see with his eyes and
to feel with him what he was working for. To this end we must reconstruct imaginatively on
a basis of the facts the conditions in which he lived and wrought. The difference between Giotto
and Raphael is a difference not of individuality only. Each gives expression to the ideals
and ways of thought of his age. Each is a creative mind, but each bases his performance upon
what has gone before, and the form of their work is conditioned by the resources each had at
his disposal. To discover the artist's purpose more completely than he was able to realize
it for himself in the single work,--that is the aim and function of the historical study of
art. A brief review of the achievement of Giotto and of Raphael may serve to illustrate concretely
the application of the principle and to fix its value to appreciation.

In the period of the decline and fall of the Roman Empire art passed from Rome to Byzantium.
The arts of sculpture and painting were employed in the service of the Church, imposing by
its magnificence and all-powerful in its domination over the lives and minds of men. The function
of art was to teach; its character was symbolic and decorative. Art had no separate and independent
existence. It had no direct reference to nature; the pictorial representation of individual
traits was quite outside its scope; a few signs fixed by convention sufficed. A fish--derived
from the acrostic ichtbus--symbolized the Saviour; a cross was the visible token of redeeming
grace. And so through several hundred years. The twelfth century saw the beginnings of a change
in the direction of spiritual and intellectual emancipation. The teachings and example of Francis
of Assisi brought men to the consciousness of themselves and to a realization of the worth
and significance of the individual life. The work of Giotto is the expression in art of the
new spirit.

Of necessity Giotto founded his work upon the accepted forms of the Byzantine tradition. But
Giotto was a man of genius and a creative mind. In the expression of his fresh impulse and
vital feeling, the assertion of new-found individuality, he tried to realize as convincingly
and vividly as possible the situation with which he was dealing; and with this purpose he looked
not back upon art but out upon nature. Where the Byzantine convention had presented but a sign
and remote indication of form by means of flat color, Giotto endows his figures with life and
movement and actuality by giving them a body in three dimensions; his forms exist in the round.
Until his day, light and shade had not been employed; and such perspective as he was able to
achieve he had to discover for himself. For the first time in Christian painting a figure has
bodily existence. Giotto gives the first evidence, too, of a sense of the beauty of color,
and of the value of movement as a means of added expressiveness. His power of composition shows
an immense advance on his predecessors. In dealing with traditional subjects, as the Madonna
and child, he follows in general the traditional arrangement. But in those subjects where his
own inventiveness is given free play, as in the series of frescoes illustrating the life of
St. Francis, he reveals an extraordinary faculty of design and a dramatic sense which is matched
by a directness and clarity of expression.

Not only in the technique of his craft was Giotto an innovator, but also in the direction of
naturalness and reality of feeling. He was the first to introduce portraits into his work.
His Madonnas and saints are no longer mere types; they are human and individual, vividly felt
and characterized by immediate and present actuality. Giotto was the first realist, but he
was a poet too. His insight into life is tempered by a deep sincerity and piety; his work is
genuinely and powerfully felt. As a man Giotto was reverent and earnest, joyous and beautifully
sane. As a painter, by force of the freshness of his impulse and the clarity of his vision,
he created a new manner of expression. As an artist he reveals a true power of imaginative
interpretation. The casual spectator of to-day finds him naive and quaint. In the eyes of his
contemporaries he was anything but that; they regarded him as a marvel of reality, surpassing
nature itself. When judged with reference to the conditions of life in which he worked and
to the technical resources at his command, Giotto is seen to be of a very high order of creative
mind.

The year 1300 divides the life of Giotto into two nearly equal parts; the year 1500 similarly
divides the life of Raphael. In the two centuries that intervene, the great age of Italian
painting, initiated by Giotto, reaches its flower and perfection in Michelangelo, Leonardo,
and Raphael. The years which followed the passing of these greatnesses were the years of decadence
and eclipse. If we are to understand and justly appreciate the work of each man in its own
kind, the painting of Giotto must be tried by other standards than those we apply to the judgment
of Raphael. Giotto was a pioneer; Raphael is a consummation. The two centuries between were
a period of development and change, a development in all that regards technique, a change in
national ideals and in the artist's attitude toward life and toward his art. A quick survey
of the period, if so hasty a generalization permits correctness of statement, will help us
in the understanding of the craft and art of Raphael.

Giotto was succeeded by a host of lesser men, regarded as his followers, men who sought to
apply the principles and methods of painting worked out by the master, but who lacked his inspiration
and his power. Thus it was for nearly a hundred years. The turn of the fourteenth century into
the fifteenth saw the emergence of new forces in the science and the mechanics of painting.
The laws of perspective and foreshortening were made the object of special research and practice
by men like Uccello (1397-1475), Piero dei Franceschi (1416-1492), and Mantegna (1431-1506).
"Oh, what a beautiful thing this perspective is!" Uccello exclaimed, as he stood at his desk
between midnight and dawn while his wife begged him to take some rest. In the first thirty
years of the fifteenth century, Masaccio contributed to the knowledge of anatomy by his painting
of the nude form; and the study of the nude was continued by Pollaiuolo and Luca Signorelli,
in the second half of the century. Masaccio, also, was the first to place his figures in air,
enveloping them in atmosphere. Verrocchio, a generation later than Masaccio, was one of the
first of the Florentines to understand landscape and the part played in it by air and light.
The realistic spirit, which suffices itself with subjects drawn from every-day actual experience,
finds expression in the first half of the fifteenth century in the work of Andrea del Castagno.
And so down through that century of spring and summer. Each painter in his own way carries
some detail of his craft to a further point of development and prepares the path for the supreme
triumphs of Michelangelo, Leonardo, and Raphael.

The growing mastery of the principles and technique of painting accompanied a change in the
painter's attitude toward his art. Originally, painting, applied in subjection to architecture
and employed in the service of the Church, was decorative in scope; its purpose was illustration,
its function was to teach. 

"Seventy-five marks."

"He sent a hundred," Asmus tore open the covering letter and read: "It accounts for your contribution
really only seventy-five marks, but we will send you with pleasure a hundred if you soon we
will see about that again.

"He threw Hilden arm around the waist and danced with her across the room. In such moments,
he danced quite well.

Twenty-five Mark as fallen from heaven! They were so still so very, very out, but they could do
so.

But it was still a very tiny joy, a true rags joy to the joy of a
next day, that day, as they told him it had evidence that they do
not would always be alone.

Since he did not dance with her as he pulled her gently on his knee down and held a long, long
her head on his chest as if he must keep it now before the slightest suffering of the world.

Yes,
the fate he was disposed to hold these days, and sometimes he already had in still ask how much
it will deduct it, and what and when? But it seemed to be no deduction to think on the contrary,
it gave him all happiness in this time still a new and true friend. He was in a teachers'
association held a presentation about Hamerling and found that among others, the cheers of a Jewish
teacher who him after the lecture was presented as # # Dr. Rosenberg. Asmus immediately found a big
man in the whole favor sympathetic to his face, his open, yet humble and modest in all Restraint
but conscious beings, to his interests and his experiences. Rosenberg was a philologist, had been
in Paris and London, and told how he had long in vain for London searched his living by giving lessons
and how, when he one day by a futile Was under way back home and have read on the back of a
book named "Schiller," in the name of the bitterest tears of homesickness had burst forth
irresistibly. It was the first Jew, came in with Asmus more personal touch, and this meeting
was him so interesting and gratifying that he invited the new friends to visit him. Rosenberg came,
Asmus said the visit, and the most lively manner arose now a relation of friendship should exceed almost
all former friendships in Asmussen's durability.

When Rosenberg was the first time at the young woman and Semper Semper only fleetingly had seen,
as he had, as he later admitted, in quiet thought: He could so young should not marry. At the second
visit, he learned to think differently and still saw the young Woman
at all.

And all had good reasons.

When Rosenberg got his second visit, it was another May Day, the day before Pentecost, and finished
in gray dawn of that day had Hilde awakened her husband and asked him that he fetch the midwife.
And then came a day, for Asmus probably not much easier than for Hilden. He moved restlessly
in his room and down and in the afternoon he was so far it loud Add to speak to himself: "I would
rather have a child - if they suffer not only . Needs "a terrible storm broke out, just above
the house there was an incessant Flames and crashing, and every blow struck him, because he thought,
as they are frightened needed. He had offered her to be with her, but she wanted to be alone
with the nurse. And only by 7 clock of the evening he heard the cries of a child; Isolde Semper
was born come.

When the nurse of the young mother was the child, she cried: "Oh, that's Mother Rebecca, "and sank
back into the pillows.

On tiptoe Asmus had come in, he leaned over and kissed her softly, softly on the forehead. She
opened her eyes, large, moist eyes and whispered, "You poor man, now I can not take care of you.
"

"You foolish angel," he whispered, "Do you want the same silence and sleep?" And kissed her your
eyes. But she opened them again and looked at him with a look of superhuman Happiness. Then she
gently lifted the blanket from the child that lay in her arms.

"Does not she look just like mother Semper," she whispered. He nodded "yes", although nothing
looked like, not he thought of the child: he thought only of her. The wise woman assured him
that everything went well, as he slipped out, took his hat and went into the street. He had
to see heaven on himself.

When he returned home after half an hour, Rosenberg had been there. The young mother had someone
had come to hear, heard who it was, and told the nurse: "Please provide ensure that the Lord
will get a refreshment. And Rosenberg was told by the nurse that the Semper young woman had become
less than an hour before her mother and that even the trunk for I told him. Because he thought.
"This must be a rare woman," He never forgot her this Trunk, and it was at a next visit when
they hosted it themselves, he thought, "He not too soon married. "

In the following months and guards came Asmussen his education by the tobacco room where he
studied under incessant calls and sounds the most subtle things, had excellent good stead. The
voice was audible Isolde and persistent. She did services against which the game appears as an episode
of Wagner's Isolde. But that did not bother him. He was not among the intellectual workers who are
within a mile of asphalt pavement straw and pour need. The square in front of his house was
a favorite playground for the whole neighboring band of children, and he closed the window do
not come crying when you sound; for it was him as a cheerful greeting of life that called for action
and creation. Also He had still the power in an emergency to build a wall around themselves, and
if he did not want he heard himself not Isolde. As a poet he was not among those who only
Persian Carpets and pearl-gray silk wallpaper can before dense, and the many small banalities, a close
budget inevitably brings with it that even a hand does not always
Hilde able to capture disgruntled, not strings.

He understood so well that Schiller a room that no more than half a table, a chair and a chute
containing potatoes, the "Louise Miller could write." What would that be a poet of the equipment
his room, which can not provide his company at any moment even that does not every moment of
his cell in the boudoir of Lady Milford or in the port of Genoa transform could?

And he brought up in carefree gaiety next to the small Isolde is a second, quieter Child, his
first book. Carefree gaiety of course this was only in view of the outer Interference, as regards
the internal barriers, it was often interrupted mirth. Never has someone better described the
artist as Goethe, as he described the loving soul: "sky high exultant - to the sad death. "
The artist is an artist who is not cheered sky high a piece of work which could not be lost
to death over the same work. And as it now does the banality of the pressure corrections came
on, as his own verses ever had to chew, as he overcame a deep despair.

But Rosenberg tore his courage again up; Rosenberg was excited about
these verses.

"I put my hand into the fire for that You will find acceptance, "he
predicted.

And really found the "Poems" by Asmus Semper, when they were finally published, the friendly
reception, for as the lyrics nothing brings in, they often learn a very favorable assessment.

LVII.
Chapter.

Begins and ends happily sorrowful fate its toll.

To all these pleasures gave the fate that seemed to want to forgive him, our Asmus still a sunny
Christmas. Even at the last Christmas he had the previous order of things upside down and his parents
decorated the Christmas tree, this time because he had won back a
fat fee of seventy marks, they should get to eat, what was in his
parents' home always been regarded as the Christmas court of the wealthy:
Carp!

And white wine should be drunk to, yes, white wine!

Immediately prior to the general mess But Hilda waved her husband
on the side, pulled him into the other room, threw her arms around
his neck and whispered in his ear: "If you love art, I still have
a special gift for you -. still not sure today, "He saw her with a
sudden, joyous, questioning wonder in the face.

"Yes?"? "

She nodded eagerly.

"When?"

"I think in July or August."

So he kissed her numerous times and pulled her into the Christmas room, and was even before he White
wine had enjoyed so intoxicated that he was not the lights of the
Christmas tree twice, no seven times, a hundred times no see.

Rebecca Semper found the delicious carp, found in general that Hilda were born a "cook" was,
and Ludwig Semper smiled his quiet smile and intimacy, as if he had found his way back to the
splendid pine trees of his home. He spoke of his poems Asmus and called those who had really liked
him, and though a father's approval to the works his son before the world has no sound, so
Asmus knew that he never had a more beautiful Laurel can grow as this silent man's praise and smiles.
This large and quiet to please the heart, which was a large and quiet glory. But only a Semper
could know.

Ludwig Semper was cheerful and talkative as long since he told how once Asmus with small Kinderschrittchen
getrippelt next to him on the lawn and called it did: "Oh Father, here is just like your birthday,
"as the boy numerous times to his come work table and it was "desired
from the"

Freischütz, from the "sleepwalker" and well laid blown out of twenty other operas, which he had collected,
yes, Ludwig Semper rose far down in his own childhood and spoke of his father, the merchant
Carsten Semper, could eat at the hall every visitor ham and corn whiskey drink without paying,
and from the day when the counselor came across the street came running over to his father
and exclaimed: "You know, Mr. Semper, Goethe is dead" It was like collection and review in Ludwig
Semper these speeches, but his family did not notice.

Well they had noticed that he hardly touched the food, even the carp, but he expressed concern dismissed
with laughter, they had calmed down. Of course, Ms Rebecca stated that he could have long suffered
from anorexia and that she "natural" does not get to the doctor.

As Asmus his parents on New Year's days attended, he heard that his father from the Christmas
party I just dragged home with infinite pains. "I will not make the road again can, "said Ludwig
Semper with a melancholy smile. "What!" Said Asmus, "then we get you simply in the cab;! we have
it, yes, "And he thought, what a pleasure it is to be going to seek the "old" in triumph to cars,
like a royal couple! And once again went He returned home reassured.

The next visit he found his father changed for the worse. He could not work, Sitting in his old
armchair and talk did not like. His face had turned gray, and as Mrs Rebecca told with grief,
he slept most of the day. His appetite was not returned.

With fear in the heart Asmus this time went like this. If the fate - No, such a hard Duty could it not
ask, so cruel could manage it will not shorten his luck! Yes, if there is an eighty, ninety
years old, would have would have to be reconciled with the need. But with sixty-seven was the
fate of this man hinraffen not do this Man does not! Even complete strangers had to pay homage
to the magic of this man.

As Asmus had not long ago spoke in the Teachers' Union and proclaimed art as educator and his
father had been present as guest, as was the meeting the speaker,
a high brought.

Immediately afterwards, however, had raised the chairman, saying, "I think not to err, when
I'm in the venerable man of our Semper sits to the side, his Father guess. "And then he had with
bold, humorous and clever psychology from the Nature constructs an image of the Son of the
Father, and had celebrated this father, and with rapturous Hurrah, the Assembly had approved
it. Asmus had secretly sneaking looks at his father and had seen how he was happy, and that this
man who all his rich Pound Seclusion had buried, now enjoyed just
imagine all the world honors he due, but of all the successes of the
happiest Asmussen's had been.

And if that's the last great joy in the life of Ludwig Semper have been? No, not the last.

As Asmus returned to Oldensund, and little was Hilde Isolde with him. And when they to the father
entered the room, he was asleep in the armchair, and he woke not
from their Admission.

Troubled heart, she heard what mother told Rebecca with quiet tears. He slept most of the day,
do not move to eat and often do not understand, what you say to him.

While she spoke, the patient opened his eyes, ever opened them until they were so big and friendly
as in his best days.

"Who owns the most delightful child," he said softly, with a glad surprise.

They told him that it was indeed Isolde, Asmussen and Hilden child and his own granddaughter.

Since
spread once again by those eyes from all over the face of suffering
the great, inexhaustible benevolent smile on Asmussen's whole childhood,
how faithfully return of the sun had shone, and then the eyes closed
again, and the patient was back asleep.

The visitors crept out, and took out Asmus his mother aside and asked:
"What the doctor says?"

Since Rebecca was not followed: wailing loudly they cried: "Oh God, the terrible Man says, it
might be stomach cancer - I'll be crazy if I just think of it "

The Asmus made from head to solidify his feet.

Through all his fears had always again won the hope that it will
pass.

The blow stunned him. But only for a moment. Hilden and he sent the
child home and ran to the doctor.

"Yes," said, "all indications are. I have found no stomach acid, which is is the first symptom.
"

"Doctor," Asmus stammered, "you must not be angry with me, - you're only human, - You need to
put yourself in my position - it is my father - you would take it amiss, if I had asked a
second doctor? "

"Absolutely not," replied the doctor, "you make is of course unnecessary costs, but if It calms
you - "

Asmus hastened to an old mountain doctor who was recommended to him to be particularly efficient.
The left cool on him.

Who would treat his father?

The doctor-so.

Yes, it was still a very capable doctor. He did not know what he was there.

Asmus begged him, but he wants to come.

"Well, I can get there, yes."

Asmus and went with a new hope will perhaps reach a different conclusion.

When he came home the next day, the second doctor had not been there. The patient but delirious and
could only with great difficulty be kept in bed. Then came Asmussen The idea: to hospital.
Here, it was in this poor, straitened circumstances yes the father
are not maintained as in the hospital, and when an operation was necessary
but he had there.

And there were the best doctors. He got the admission to hospital, took a cab and drove pre parents.
Now he got his father in the cab! But not in triumph, oh God, not in triumph! His father was passed
out in his arms like a Child, and when he so alone in the car with his father was running down his
tears incessantly. When he finally wohlgebettet father saw her, he hurried to the doctor of the
hospital and reported his report on the sick. This doctor was a fine and gentle man, he heard
his son, from his words, he probably heard the fear of flying heart, with great participation and
dismissed him with new hope.

Now you can still be all right, thought Asmus. This doctor is an excellent man, and in the
hospital, you have everything at hand, what you care for a seriously ill needs.

Another at noon, when he came home from school, was his first word:

"Is there news of the hospital?"

Yes, said "serious Hilde," the messenger was here. "

"And," he said eagerly.

"You know it already, right?" Said Hilda gently. He stared at her. "Is he - He did not get the
word out.

She nodded and put his arm around his neck. But he fell with a single, loud Sob in the corner
of the sofa.

So that he had reached with all the troubles and fears that his father having died lonely was.
Namely: Ludwig Semper after the report was not the keeper again awakened to consciousness, and
in the morning by two clock he died. But if he still got a bright moment had and if he had
sought his wife and children - with this thought is mangled Asmus the heart, as he ran through
the streets and doing the paperwork for the funeral. He walked for hours through areas in which
he had no business, he knew not know what else he should complete his term.

As he stood at the grave of his father and the rigid, tearless eye on the white Head of the dead
pinned because he had to constantly think: King Lear - King Lear.

This man had not cast out folly a child who was not a tyrant - and his love was requited was
how they earned it? The love of a father can not repay it, he thought, and each Father is a King Lear.
And when he saw his poor mother bowed, as he thought that their children had left her and the best
part of her heart had given to others, he added, and every mother is a Niobe.

He tore himself violently up from his brooding and looked around. was by his friends only one
appeared: # # Dr. Rosenberg. And that was the first joy in all this suffering.

As he stood at the grave, it was back to normal and he could not cry. He thought, what must the
people you think you're standing at the grave of your father without a tear. But when he thought
that he could cry so much less. He had been in that sob Hilden Not crying poor, even when he
came home, he did not cry. On the evening of the following Day, had left as Hilde to purchase
the house and he alone at his desk sat, he leaned his head back in his chair and cried and
cried incessantly like a little Child who has lost in the crowd and crush of people the hand of the
Father.

LVIII. and last chapter. 

Asmus gets a prize, a tungsten and a world
view, and since this is the author enough it seems, indeed, the world-view
makes the man, he concludes this story a youth.

Why Asmus sought
solace in these difficult days, not with his Hilda? Who at the end
this book would still ask, would the nature of Ludwig Semper son is
not quite have understood. People like this can not Asmus comfort
from others, but always found only in themselves, and if they listen
to the comfort of others, it is because she have already found themselves.
First, he sought no comfort, but he dug in his wound. Not all people
shouting in pain relief immediately after the child after the pacifier.
He was right and good that he suffered, where his father was so hard
and so long had condoned and he was a not a right to have a painless
existence, if these people suffered. But then, when he quite sattgeweint
in peace and solitude had its innate philosophy came into their own
right: with unalterable facts not to quarrel and struggle of living
in hope and trust always resume. Was it now a hope and confidence
become far beyond the circle of a Single life go much deeper.

As
often as he might also remember the early decease of his father's
pain - he could in the far, far later years remember with deep sadness
- this one loss, When he had finished with him, not to the things
that his work and his development could inhibit. He would also have
not had time to melancholy meditations, he learned Once again the
curse and the blessing of poverty. He had finally see it, must that
1800 marks and 2000 marks were not sufficient even when parents support
it and also wanted to get three people, two of which required something
more than appeasement of hunger. And his writing was a completely
insecure bread, work that were taken from him later kiss, he had in
those years as sour beer to dozens of the profile provider gone in
vain. This was the birth of their second child in the near view. Rosenberg,
who liked to read his friend's concerns from his face, had him in
a most delicate way offered his help, "I earn much more than I need,"
he said, "and I 'm lucky if I can use my money as well. "But Asmus
had provisionally with thanks and Emotion rejected. He knew that this
man would never push him, but he had before debt a deep horror, they
were the only one that the serene soul of his benevolent father could
exacerbate. So he grabbed for an accumulation of private lessons,
he prepared teachers and teachers on the second examination before. With M. Brunetière, to cite now a few representative
names, criticism is authoritative and dogmatic: he looks at the work objectively, refusing
to be the dupe of his pleasure, if he has any; and approaching the work in the spirit of dispassionate
impersonal inquiry as an object of historical importance and scientific interest, he decrees
that it is good or bad. Matthew Arnold considers literature a "criticism of life," and he values
a work with reference to the moral significance of its ideas. Ruskin's criticism is didactic;
he wishes to educate his public, and by force of his torrential eloquence he succeeds in persuading
his disciples into acceptance of his teaching, though he may not always convince. Impressionistic
criticism, as with M. Anatole France or M. Jules Lemaître, does not even try to see the work
"as in itself it really is," but is an account of the critic's own subjective reaction on it,
a narrative of what he thought and felt in this chance corner of experience. With Walter Pater
criticism becomes appreciation. A given work of art produces a distinctive impression and communicates
a special and unique pleasure; this active power constitutes its beauty. The interpretative
critic--represented in the practice of Pater--stands between a work of art and the appreciator
as mediator and revealer.

Each kind of criticism performs a certain office, and is of use within its own chosen sphere.
To the layman, for his purposes of appreciation, that order of criticism will be most helpful
which responds most closely and amply to his peculiar needs. A work of art may be regarded
under several aspects, its quality of technical execution, its power of sensuous appeal, its
historical importance; and to each one of these aspects some kind of criticism applies. The
layman's reception of art includes all these considerations, but subordinates them to the total
experience. His concern, therefore, is to define the service of criticism to appreciation.

The analysis of a work of art resolves it into these elements. There is first of all the emotion
which gives birth to the work and which the work is designed to express. The emotion, to become
definite, gathers about an idea, conceived in the terms of its own medium, as form, or color
and mass, or musical relations; and this artistic idea presents itself as the subject or motive
of the work. The emotion and artistic idea, in order that they may be expressed and become
communicable, embody themselves in material, as the marble of a statue, the pigment of a picture,
the audible tones of a musical composition. This material form has the power to satisfy the
mind and delight the senses. Through the channel of the senses and the mind the work reaches
the feelings; and the aesthetic experience is complete.

As art springs out of emotion, so it is to be received as emotion; and a work to be appreciated
in its true spirit must be enjoyed. But to be completely enjoyed it must be understood. We
must know what the artist was trying to express, and we must be able to read his language;
then we are prepared to take delight in the form and to respond to the emotion.

To help us to understand a work of art in all the components that entered into the making of
it is the function of historical study. Such study enables us to see the work from the artist's
own point of view. A knowledge of its background, the conditions in which the artist wrought
and his own attitude toward life, is the clue to his ideal; and by an understanding of the
language it was possible for him to employ, we can measure the degree of expressiveness he
was able to achieve. This study of the artist's purpose and of his methods is an exercise in
explanation.

The interpretation of art, for which we look to criticism, deals with the picture, the statue,
the book, specifically in its relation to the appreciator. What is the special nature of the
experience which the work communicates to us in terms of feeling? In so far as the medium itself
is a source of pleasure, by what qualities of form has the work realized the conditions of
beauty proper to it, delighting thus the senses and satisfying the mind? These are the questions
which the critic, interpreting the work through the medium of his own temperament, seeks to answer.

Theoretically, the best critic of art would be the artist himself. He above all other men should
understand the subtle play of emotion and thought in which a work of art is conceived; and
the artist rather than another should trace the intricacies and know the cunning of the magician
processes by which the immaterial idea builds itself into visible actuality. In practice, however,
the theory is not borne out by the fact. The artist as such is very little conscious of the
workings of his spirit. He is creative rather than reflective, synthetic and not analytic.
From his contact with nature and from his experience of life, out of which rises his generative
emotion, he moves directly to the fashioning of expressive forms, without pausing on the way
to scan too closely the "meaning" of his work. Mr. Bernard Shaw remarks that Ibsen, giving
the rein to the creative impulse of his poetic nature, produced in "Brand" and "Peer Gynt"
a "great puzzle for his intellect." Wagner, he says, "has expressly described how the intellectual
activity which he brought to the analysis of his music dramas was in abeyance during their
creation. Just so do we find Ibsen, after composing his two great dramatic poems, entering
on a struggle to become intellectually conscious of what he had done." Moreover, the artist
is in the very nature of things committed to one way of seeing. His view of life is limited
by the trend of his own dominant and creative personality; what he gains in intensity and penetration
of insight he loses in breadth. He is less quick to see beauty in another guise than that which
his own imagination weaves for him; he is less receptive of other ways of envisaging the world.

The ideal critic, on the contrary, is above everything else catholic and tolerant. It is his
task to discover beauty in whatever form and to affirm it. By nature he is more sensitive than
the ordinary man, by training he has directed the exercise of his powers toward their fullest
scope, and by experience of art in its diverse manifestations he has certified his judgment
and deepened his capacity to enjoy. The qualifications of an authentic critic are both temperament
and scholarship. Mere temperament uncorrected by knowledge may vibrate exquisitely when swept
by the touch of a thing of beauty, but its music may be in a quite different key from the original
motive. Criticism must relate itself to the objective fact; it should interpret and not transpose.
Mere scholarship without temperament misses art at its centre, that art is the expression and
communication of emotional experience; and the scholar in criticism may wander his leaden way
down the by-paths of a sterile learning. To mediate between the artist and the appreciator,
the critic must understand the artist and he must feel with the appreciator. He is at once
the artist translated into simpler terms and the appreciator raised to a higher power of perception
and response.

The service of criticism to the layman is to furnish him a clue to the meaning of the work
in hand, and by the critic's own response to its beauty to reveal its potency and charm. With
technique as such the critic is not concerned. Technique is the business of the artist; only
those who themselves practice an art are qualified to judge in matters of practice. The form
is significant to the appreciator only so far as regards its expressiveness and beauty. It
is not the function of the critic to tell the artist what his work should be; it is the critic's
mission to reveal to the appreciator what the work is. That revelation will be accomplished
in terms of the critic's own experience of the beauty of the work, an experience imaged forth
in such phrases that the pleasure the work communicates is conveyed to his readers in its true
quality and foil intensity. It is not enough to dogmatize as Ruskin dogmatizes, to bully the
reader into a terrified acceptance. It is not enough to determine absolute values as Matthew
Arnold seeks to do, to fix certain canons of intellectual judgment, and by the application
of a formula as a touchstone, to decide that this work is excellent and that another is less
good. Really serviceable criticism is that which notes the special and distinguishing quality
of beauty in any work and helps the reader to live out that beauty in his own experience.

These generalizations may be made more immediate and practical by examples. In illustration
of the didactic manner in criticism I may cite a typical paragraph of Ruskin, chosen from his
"Mornings in Florence."

First, look at the two sepulchral slabs by which you are standing. That farther of the two
from the west end is one of the most beautiful pieces of fourteenth-century sculpture in this
world. . . . And now, here is a simple but most useful test of your capacity for understanding
Florentine sculpture or painting. See Trollope, South Australia and Western Australia (Lond. 1874); Harcus, South
Australia (ibid. 1876), Stow, South Australia (Adelaide 1883); Jung, The World of Australia,
Volume 2 (Leipzig, 1882).

Südbrabant, belgian province, see Brabant.

Sudbury (pronounced ssöddberi), city in English. Suffolk County, on the Stour, has silk and Samtweberei,
kiln, malt kilns, a grain and stock exchange (1881) 6584 inh

South Carolina (South Carolina, abbreviated SC), one of the southern states of the nordamerikan. Union,
located on the Atlantic Ocean between North Carolina and Georgia falls, the Bodengestaltnng
after three sharply defined parts: lower, middle and upper country. The former, which is from the sea about
130 km inland, is extended, low level and consists largely from Pine Barrens, interspersed with
swamps and savannahs; it to him, including the so-called. Sea Islands, separated from the mainland
by Flußarme Islands. The Central Plateau, in the width of 50-70 km, consists mainly of sand hills,
the Oberland on the other hand, W. is a very steep rising romantic highlands, which rise from
the mountains of the Blue Ridge to the height of 1220 meters. Only 60 per cent of the state is
forested, mainly with pine trees. The main rivers are the Great Pedee (Yadkin), Santee, Ashley,
Edisto, and Savannah, the border river to Georgia. The mean Annual temperature ranges between
15 and 20 ° C., and there are 1200 to 1500 mm of rain. S. has an area of ​​78.616 square km (1609.4
sq.m.) with (1880) 995.577 inhabitants, among which 604.332 color. The Schools were visited in
1886 by 183.966 children, 21 percent of whites and over 10 years old 78 per cent of the colored
people are ignorant of the letter. exist at higher education institutions 9 Colleges with 1,075 students.
Agriculture employs 76 percent of the population, and 1,677,330 Hectares have won the culture.
Will be built especially maize, rice (on the coast) and oats Sweet potatoes, cotton (1880: 522.548
bales) and sugar. To cattle, there were 1880: 61.000 horses, 67.000 mules, 365 000 cattle, 119
000 628 000 sheep and pigs. The fishing industry 1880: 1005 persons with 523 boats. Gold is
recovered in the W., and also iron, copper and lead occur. Contrast, china clay, building blocks
and especially in major phosphorites Quantities produced and the production of artificial fertilizer
on the same busy 1880: 9059 workers. Important nor the extraction of tar and turpentine (4619
workers). Otherwise the industry is insignificant, but in 1880 there were already 14 cotton factories
with 2018 workers. The state has (1886) 227 ships of 12.806 tone. Content and a railway network
of 2772 km.

The old constitution of 1775, was one of the least democratic in
1868 by a new ones through which the colored people the rights of
citizens were presented.

Legislative Power is exercised by a General Assembly, which consists
of a Senate of 35 members and House of Representatives of 124 co-

421

South
- Southern Cross.

is divided.

The governor and the higher officials are elected for two years by the people. The judges,
the governor and the Assembly on 6 years. Receipts were 1885, 1,065,001 dollars, the national
debt amounted to 1887: 6,399,742 Doll. Capital is Columbia, But the most important city of Charleston.
- S. formed since the separation of North Carolina 1729 (S. Carolina) a specific colony and
closed 1775 on the revolt against England, according whose victory it was a State of the Union.
In the 1861-65 civil war was one of the most zealous S. States of the Confederacy of the South
was in the last period of the same theater of war in 1865. The once well-ordered finances have been
completely by the war and the subsequent turmoil shattered, and the national debt had grown in
1875 alleged the amount of 68 million marks, however, was actually far more.

South svw noon.

Suderode, village in the Prussian. Region Magdeburg, district Aschersleben in Gernrode, at
the northern foot the resin and to line-Frose Quedlinburg located in the Prussian State Railways,
has a Evangelical Church, a visited Bad (Beringer well, sd, 1887:
3364 spa guests) and (1885) 1189 inh See Reinhardt, Bad S. (Suderode
1881).

Süderoog, one of the North Frisian Islands Schleswig Wadden Sea, southwest of Pellworm.

Sudety (Sudeten mountain system), in the wider sense of the geographical name of a number on the
shape and geological characteristics very different mountain ranges and mountain groups, extending
from Elbdurchbruch in a southerly direction to extend to the draft, which the German mountains of
the Carpathians separated (see map "Silesia"). The length of this axis Rock mass is 340, the
width of 60-90 km. The high peaks and ridges rise to the part about the upper limit of the
pine region (1230 m) and also show respect to the design of the Summit and the valley margins,
such as the alpine vegetation character, while the rolling foothills cultivated good. The southeastern
part of this and most extensive mountain system is the Moravian-Silesian Mountains, consisting of the
Moravian-Silesian dies (Gessénike) until to 777 m altitude, between the Oder and Bečva also
means mountain Or, as the south-eastern, Altvater and the mountains or the S. in the narrower
sense, in Altvater 1490 m high to the northwest Part. From Altvater spread the gradually sloping
lines to the south and SE., N. and NW. to the valleys of the Oder and Opava-like shine off by the
northern branch in the bishop's crest still rise 886 m high, but then in the lowlands of the
upper or . Flatten Northwest strikes a lateral tension to NE., The Hunsrück, which is only
a short distance over 1000 m high and steep falls against the valley near Neisse Neisse. In the
long axis of the Rock mass to the NW. sweeps the Golden Mountains, with the Jauer Berg (882 m)
until Warton to the mountain (619 m), where the valley of the Glatzer Neisse (280-290 m) mountain
range that limited. From the junction of the Hunsrück to SW. runs along the Bohemian-Silesian
Glatzer limit the Snow Mountain, with the Great or mirror Glitter Snow Mountain (1424), then the
southern end of the county of Glatz Habelschwerdter Mountains, the coal mine (963 m), to NW. and separated
from it by the valley of the Heald, run the Bohemian combs or the Eagle Mountains, with the High
Mense (1085 m), nearly parallel. North of the latter Tip off a deeply incisive pass which at
its northern end through the marshy plateau the Seefeld (784 m) connected Habelschwerdter Bohemian
mountains and ridges, also combined Heald mountains called by the sharply defined sandstone
plateau of the Heuscheuer on whose wooded, 750-foot area rises the crest of the Great Heuscheuer
(920 m). Next to NW. andres is a craggy sandstone plateau adršpašské Mountains (780 m). From the opening
of the Nysa at Warton, but against NW. extending in the longitudinal axis of the southern Sudetenzugs
the Owl Mountains, with the High Owl (1000 m), up to the Weistritz, and from the northern foothills
of the same increases the Zobten (718 m) up. Spreads west from the Weistritz a mountain landscape,
with the overall name of Lower Silesian coal mountains shall be identified in different parts
of Burger and also forest Schweidnitzer mountains, in high forest 840 forest in the saddle 778, Heidelberg
achieved in 954 m and. W. Bober until reaching the Katzbach Mountains (High Kullge 740 m) passes.
The significantly depressed and widened main ridge runs according to NW. About the band Mountain
(640 m) to the source continued Bober. This is followed by the South by N. to each other reihend
the raven mountains, forge ridge, the mountain forest (982 m), and the Home Huter comb, with
the stone frieze (800 m), all with large, dense wooded, rounded hilltops. Where the Raven and
the Forge Mountain ridge in the Border cottages meet, begins the Giant Mountains, the real high
mountains of the system, with the 1603 m high snow Koppe, parallel to the south of Bohemia comb
(Brunnberg 1502 m) pulls, and located in the NW. the Jizera Mountains, with the 1123 m high
Table spruce, followed. The end of the whole mountain system is the Lusatian Mountains, the ridge
1013, in the Lausche 796 m high, which is next to the Neisse River and extends from the Saxon-Bohemian
border. From this as the last member of the whole mountain system, connect individual spurs,
including the volcanic country crown (432 m) in Görlitz, on Prussian territory over. For details,
see the individual articles.

Südfall, one of the North cried like islands in the Wadden Sea, Schleswig, southeast of Pellworm.

Tropical
fruits, from Southern Europe, mar. North Africa fresh, dry or canned
imported, the countries there peculiar types of fruits such as oranges,
lemons, dates, figs, Raisins, etc.

Brewhouse, which is part of a
beer brewery, in which the wort is boiled.

Südhollaud Province, 655th, see Holland, S.

Sudler, on mercenaries (sd) of the cooking; Sudlerin, the follower.

Southern Crown, Constellation, see Crown, p. 248

Southern continent,
s. Südpolarländer.

Southern Triangle constellation of the southern hemisphere, between Bird of Paradise, altar, ruler
and square, circle and Centaur, near the Milky Way, with a star second,
two third Size.

Southern Arctic, see Arctic, p. 487

Southern Cross, a small constellation of the southern hemisphere, in the narrowest part of the
Milky Way, the right of the dark region of the so-called. Kohl Sacks, located near the pole
of the ecliptic. It is formed by four bright stars that form in the corners

422

Southern Cross (Knights) - Südpolarländer.

a square are representing the diagonals of the cross, one arm of the latter to the end of the main
star of first magnitude is, is longer than the other (see figure). Already Vespucci does the same on
his third voyage (1501), and Corsali (1517) it is already as "Miracle Cross" means. Dante (in
the entrance of his "purgatory"), it probably knew from Arab sources. The constellation is flag
character of the German East Africa Company (See table "Flag II"). Those also called the Order
of the Southern Cross, the highest African brasil Order, founded first December 1822 by the Emperor
Dom Pedro I in memory of his appeal to the throne and so named in
allusion to the geographical situation of the empire, in which the
the constellation of the Southern Cross show.

The Order has four classes: Grand Cross, dignitaries, Officers and
knights.

The decoration consists of a five-armed, white enamelled gold cross, overcome by a wreath of
coffee and tobacco leaves, on a golden imperial crown hanging. The Golden Mittelavers shows
Dom Pedro's picture with the inscription: "Peter I, Emperor Brasiliae" the blue collar, a cross of 19
stars with the inscription: "Bene merentium Praemium". The Grand Cross, dignitaries and officers
wear the cross and a plaque, consisting of the Cross with golden rays between the arms, the
middle fold and the Crown, the dignitaries, the Cross at the neck, the last two classes on the
chest. The ribbon is sky blue. The Grand Cross are Excellencies, the dignitaries are due to Senhoria.
Pensions are also associated with the Order.

Southern lights, see aurora.

South-north channel, channel in the province of Hanover, the most
important of the new facilities in the Marshes on the left Emsseite
(Bourtanger Moor), for the purpose of cultivating it.

He has a length of 71 km, a width of 15.7 m and is on both sides (like the EMS Vechtekanal) accompanied
by trails. The channel relies on the Ems-Nordhorn Vechtekanal and continues to N. by the great
Moore a short distance from the Dutch border to roadstead, where it joins the Rhede Bellingwolde-channel
and connects with the Ems to go. Numerous Since channels are out of it out in the moors, even multiple
connections to the Dutch Canal system established.

Sudogda (Ssudogda), a district town in the Russian government of Vladimir, on the river pages, with
(1885) 1987 Inhabitants in the circle are 15 factories supply, which crystal and glassware.

Sudorifera (Latin), s. sweaty agent.

South Pole, pole and see magnetism.

South Polar Expedition, s. Südpolarländer.

Südpolarländer (Antarctic countries), all the countries and islands that fall within or are
located near the Antarctic Circle. Some assume the existence of a large Antarctic continent in
the mainland or to another page to doubt the existence of such and think of bigger and smaller
islands. What has been discovered so far is this: South-southeast from the tip of South America
are between 63 1 / 2 and 65 ° south latitude Trinity and Palmer Land, discovered in 1821 by Powell
and Palmer, further south in the latitude of the Arctic Circle discovered in 1832 by Adelaide-Biscoe
and Graham Land and Trinity on the east side of the country in 1838, discovered by Dumont d'Urville
Louis-Philippe of land, the island of Joinville. From the in 1599 by Dirk Gerrits seen, but only
in 1819 by W. Smith really discovered island chain South Shetland is the part of the Antarctic
land separated by the Bransfield Strait. Southwest is the Alexander Island and under the same
width, the high Peter Island both discovered in 1821 by Bellingshausen. To the west is only water and
ice, no land seen been. Only under L. 170-160 ° east of Gr. James Clark Ross discovered (1841-42)
the high coast a snowy country, which he called Victoria Land, and which many mountains 3000-4000
m altitude with, including the volcanoes Erebus (3770 m), Terror (3318 m) and the Melbourne 4570
m high as the highest of the observed peak. Between L. 165-95 ° east of Gr., below the Arctic Circle,
recorded Dumont d'Urville, and Wilkes Balleny (1839-40) a series Islands and coast lines disconnected,
the combined under the name of Wilkes Land be, individual routes are: Adélie Land, Clarieland, Sabrina
Land, Knox Land, Terminationinsel. To the west of Wilke and the country is Kempland 1831 Biscoe
discovered Enderby, both likely to be islands. The already lying to the north, discovered by
Cook in 1775, 1819 of Bellingshausen investigated sandwich group, also investigated by Cook, already
1675 by Laroche South Georgia and discovered in 1821 by Palmer and Powell discovered, 1822 of
Weddell visited Südorkneyinseln be included here. It is estimated the area of ​​S. on 660 000
sq km (12,000 sq.m.).

If an Antarctic continent is actually present, the same at most at
one point (against Australia), the 70th Latitude significantly exceed
and must remain far from the Atlantic side of the same distance.

Here reached Weddell in February 1823 at 33 ° 20 'west longitude
in almost ice-free sea, the width of 74 ° 15'. - The icy wasteland
of the Antarctic rock islands limited the plant and animal life almost
entirely the ocean, but cliffs and mountain slopes are covered with
countless birds.

Active volcanism occurs particularly in the area of ​​Victoria state in great ways. The temperature
observations naturally have to the low summer heat and winter cold of a very small oceanic Climate
out. Ever since the Challenger expedition in 1874 penetrated into the Arctic Circle and Dallmann 1873-74
Graham land is surveyed, and since the voyage of the Gazelle (1874-75) is the research been stimulated
S. wiederholentlich from Germany. In particular, but one was in Australia for active, and the
local geographical societies gained the approval of a considerable sum by local governments, and
as the British Government but their aid failed, it was a company does not take place.

423

South Prussia - Suetonius.

South Prussia, the former province of the Kingdom of Prussia, from 1793 to Prussia defeated Part of
Great Poland, consisting comprised the former voivodships Poznan, Gniezno, Kalisz, Sieradz,
Lentschiza, Rawa and Plozk together 60.570 square km (1,100 SQM) with 1,335,000 inhabitants (see "Historical
Map of Prussia). in 1795 there was another part of the acquisitions
of the third partition of Poland with Warsaw added.

In the Peace of Tilsit (1807) S. to the Grand Duchy of Warsaw was
hit by the dissolution of Prussia back in 1815 the present Grand Duchy
of Posen, the remaining major Part came to Russia.

See Holscher, geography and statistics of Western, Southern and East
Prussia (Berl.

1804, 3 vols).

South point (lunch period), one of the two intersections of the meridian with the horizon, which is closer
to the South Pole.

Sudra, the fourth and lowest class in ancient
Indian caste system, showing the different Artisans, tenant farmers,
day laborers, servants, etc. included. In the present, go to S. the
mixing box on, but are still within the caste system. They form the
great majority the Indian people, also apply the orthodox Hindu as
a purely live, within reason the towns and villages, but not under
the name S., but under the special box designations, which each of
the many groups of S. ascribed.

Sudsalz that obtained in the saline
saline as opposed to rock salt.

South Pacific, see Pacific Ocean.

South
Sea Company, see merchant companies, p.86.

South Sea Islander, the
inhabitants of the islands of the Pacific, Polynesians, Micronesians,
Melanesians (See Pacific, p. 584 ff), which form a large section of
the Malay race and (probably 1st After I
had come away, I fell to thinking about what I had seen, and intellectually I deduced certain
abstract principles with regard to unity and significance. But at the moment of experience
itself I simply felt. I was overwhelmed by the sense of unloosened power. The very confusion
of it all constituted the unity of impression. The emotion roused in me by the roar and riotous
movement and the vast gloom torn by fitful yellow gleams from opened furnaces and shapes of
glowing metal was the emotion appropriate to the experience of chaos. That I can find a single
word by which to characterize it, is evidence that the moment had its harmony for me and consequent
meaning. All the infinite universe external to us is everywhere and at every instant potentially
the stimulus to emotion. But unless feeling is discriminated, it passes unregarded. When the
emotion gathers itself into design, when the moment reveals within itself order and significance,
then and not till then the emotion becomes substance for expression in forms of art.

If I were able to phrase what I saw and what I felt in the Locomotive Works, so that by means
of presenting what I saw I might communicate to another what I felt and so rouse in him the
same emotion, I should be an artist. Whistler or Monet might picture for us the murk and mystery
of this pregnant gloom. Wagner might sound for us the tumultuous, weird emotions of this Niebelungen
workshop of the twentieth century. Dante or Milton might phrase this inferno and pandemonium
of modern industry and leave us stirred by the sense of power in the play of gigantic forces.
Whether the medium be the painter's color, the musician's tones, or the poet's words, the purpose
of the representation is fulfilled in so far as the work expresses the emotion which the artist
has felt in the presence of this spectacle. He, the artist, more than I or another, has thrilled
to its mystery, its tumult, its power. It is this effect, received as a unity of impression,
that he wants to communicate. This power of the object over him, and consequently the content
of his work, is beauty.

In the experience of us all there are objects and situations which can stir us,--the twilight
hour, a group of children at play, the spectacle of the great human crowd, it may be, or solitude
under the stars, the works of man as vast cities or cunningly contrived machines, or perhaps
it is the mighty, shifting panorama which nature unrolls for us at every instant of day and
night, her endless pageant of color and light and shade and form. Out of them at the moment
of our contact is unfolded a new significance; because of them life becomes for us larger,
deeper. This power possessed by objects to rouse in us an emotion which comes with the realization
of inner significance expressed in harmony is beauty. A brief analysis of the nature and action
of beauty may help us in the understanding and appreciation of art, though the value to us
of any explanation is to quicken us to a more vivid sensitiveness to the effect of beauty in
the domain of actual experience of it.

Because the world external to us, which manifests beauty, is received into consciousness by
the senses, it is natural to seek our explanation in the processes involved in the functioning
of our organism. Our existence as individual human beings is conditioned by our embodiment
in matter. Without senses, without nerves and a brain, we should not be. Our feelings, which
determine for us finally the value of experience, are the product of the excitement of our
physical organism responding to stimulation. The rudimentary and most general feelings are
pleasure and pain. All the complex and infinitely varied emotions that go to make up our conscious
life are modifications of these two elementary reactions. The feeling of pleasure results when
our organism "functions harmoniously with itself;" pain is the consequence of discord. Beauty,
then, according to the psychologists, is the quality inherent in things, the possession of
which enables them to stimulate our organism to harmonious functioning. And the perception
of beauty is a purely physiological reaction.

This explanation, valid within its limits, seems to me to fall short of the whole truth. For
it fails to reckon with that faculty and that entity within us whose existence we know but
cannot explain,--the faculty we call mind, which operates as imagination, and the entity we
recognize as spirit or soul. I mean the faculty which gives us the idea of God and the consciousness
of self, the faculty which apprehends relations and significance in material transcending their
material embodiment. I mean the entity within us which expresses itself in love and aspiration
and worship, the entity which is able to fuse with the harmony external to it in a larger unity.
When I glance out upon a winter twilight drenching earth and sky with luminous blue, a sudden
delight floods in upon me, gathering up all my senses in a surging billow of emotion, and my
being pulses and vibrates in a beat of joy. Something within me goes out to meet the landscape;
so far as I am at all conscious of the moment, I feel, There, that is what I am! This deep
harmony of tone and mass is the expression of a fuller self toward which I yearn. My being
thrills and dilates with the sensation of larger life. Then, after the joy has throbbed itself
out and my reaction takes shape as consciousness, I set myself to consider the sources and
the processes of my experience. I note that my eye has perceived color and form. My intellect,
as I summon it into action, tells me that I am looking upon a scene in nature composed of material
elements, as land and trees and water and atmosphere. My senses, operating through channels
of matter, receive, and my brain registers, impressions of material objects. But this analysis,
though defining the processes, does not quite explain my joy. I know that beyond all this,
transcending my material sense-perception and transcending the actual material of the landscape,
there is something in me and there is something in nature which meet and mingle and become
one. Above all embodiment in matter, there is a plane on which I feel my community with the
world external to me, recognizing that world to be an extension of my own personality, a plane
on which I can identify myself with the thing outside of me in so far as it is the expression
of what I am or may become. Between me and the external world there is a common term. The effect
which nature has upon us is determined, not by the object itself alone and not by our individual
mind and temperament alone, but by the meeting of the two, the community between the object
and the spirit of man. When we find nature significant and expressive, it is because we make
nature in some way a part of our own experience.

The material of an object is perceived by the senses. We see that it is blue or green or brown;
we may touch it and note that it is rough or smooth, hard or soft, warm or cold. But the expressiveness
of the object, its value for the emotions, does not stop with its merely material qualities,
but comes with our grasp of the "relations" which it embodies; and these relations, transmitted
through material by the senses, are apprehended by the mind. There are, of course, elementary
data of sense-perception, such as color and sound. It may be that I prefer red to yellow because
my eye is so constituted as to function harmoniously with a rate of vibration represented by
450 billions per second, and discordantly with a rate of vibration represented by 526 billions
per second. So also with tones of a given pitch. But though simple color and simple sound have
each the power to please the senses, yet in actual experience neither color nor sound is perceived
abstractly, apart from its embodiment in form. Color is felt as the property of some concrete
object, as the crimson of a rose, the dye of some fabric or garment, the blue of the sky, which,
though we know it to be the infinite extension of atmosphere and ether, we nevertheless conceive
as a dome, with curvature and the definite boundary of the horizon. Sound in and of itself
has pitch and timbre, qualities of pure sensation; but even with the perception of sound the
element of form enters in, for we hear it with a consciousness of its duration--long or short--or
of its relation to other sounds, heard or imagined.

Our perceptions, therefore, give us forms. Now form implies relation, the reference of one
part to the other parts in the composition of the whole. And relation carries with it the possibilities
of harmony or discord, of unity or disorder. Before an object can be regarded as beautiful
it must give out a unity of impression. This unity does not reside in the object itself, but
is effected by the mind which perceives it. In looking at a checkerboard I may see it as an
aggregation of white squares set off by black, or as black squares relieved by white. I may
read it as a series of horizontals, or of verticals, or of diagonals, according as I attend
to it. The design of the checker-board is not an absolute and fixed quantity inherent in the
object itself, but is capable of a various interpretation according to the relative emphasis
given to the parts by the perceiving mind. So with all objects in nature. The twilight landscape
which stirred me may have been quite without interest or meaning to the man at my side; or,
if he responded to it at all, his feelings may have been of a different order and quality than
mine. Where I felt a deep and intimate solemnity in the landscape, he might have received the
twilight as chill and forbidding.  Beauty, then, which consists in harmonious relation, does
not lie in nature objectively, but is constituted by the perception in man's constructive imagination
of a harmony and consequent significance drawn out of natural forms.  It is, in Emerson's phrase,
"the integrity of impression made by manifold natural objects." The mere pleasurable excitement
of the senses is hardly to be called beauty. An object to be beautiful must express a harmony
of relations and hence a meaning,--a meaning which goes beyond sense-perception and does not
stop with the intellect, but reaches the spirit. Psychologists tell us that "a curved line
is pleasing because the eye is so hung as best to move in it." Pleasing, yes; but not beautiful.
And precisely herein is illustrated the distinction. A life wearied with an undulating uniformity
of days will find beauty less in the curve than in the zigzag, because the sight of the broken
line brings to the spirit suggestions of change and adventure. A supine temper finds shock,
excitement, and a meaning in the vertical. Yet the significance of forms is not determined
necessarily by contrasts. A quiet spirit sees its own expression, a harmony of self with external
form, in the even lines and flat spaces of some Dutch etching. Or a vigorous, hardy mind takes
fresh stimulus and courage from the swirling clouds of Turner or the wind-torn landscapes of
Constable. An object is beautiful, not because of the physical ease with which the eye follows
its outlines, but in so far as it has the power to communicate to us the feeling of larger
life, to express and complete for us a harmony within our emotional experience.

Our senses report to us the material world; we see, we hear, we touch and taste and smell.
But we recognize also that nature has a value for the emotions; it can delight and thrill and
uplift, taking us out of ourselves and carrying us beyond the confines of the little circle
of our daily use and wont. As I look from my window I see against the sky a pear tree, radiant
with blossom, an explosion of light and sensation. Its green and white, steeped in sunshine
and quivering out of rain-washed depths of blue, are good to behold. But for me, as my spirit
goes out to meet it, the tree is spring! In this I do not mean to characterize a process of
intellectual deduction,--that as blossoms come in the spring, so the flowering of the tree
is evidence that spring is here. I mean that by its color and form, all its outward loveliness,
the tree communicates to me the spirit of the new birth of the year. In myself I feel and live
the spring. My joy in the tree, therefore, does not end with the sight of its gray trunk and
interwoven branches and its gleaming play of leaves: there my joy only begins, and it comes
to its fulfillment as I feel the life of the tree to be an expression and extension of the
life that is in me. My physical organism responds harmoniously in rhythm with the form of the
tree, and so far the tree is pleasing. But, finally, a form is beautiful because it is expressive.
"Beauty," said Millet, "does not consist merely in the shape or coloring of a face. It lies
in the general effect of the form, in suitable and appropriate action. . . . When I paint a
mother, I shall try and make her beautiful simply by the look she bends upon her child. Beauty
is expression." Beauty works its effect through significance, a significance which is not always
to be phrased in words, but is felt; conveyed by the senses, it at last reaches the emotions.
Where the spirit of man comes into harmony with a harmony external to it, there is beauty.

The elements of beauty are design, wholeness, and significance. Significance proceeds out of
wholeness or unity of impression; and unity is made possible by design. Whatever the flower
into which it may ultimately expand, beauty has its roots in fitness and utility; design in
this case is constituted by the adaptation of the means to the end. The owner of a saw-mill
wanted a support made for a shafting. Indicating a general idea of what he desired, he applied
to one of his workmen, a man of intelligence and skill in his craft, but without a conventional
education. The man constructed the support, a triangular framework contrived to receive the
shafting at the apex; where there was no stress within the triangle, he cut away the timber,
thus eliminating all surplusage of material. When the owner saw the finished product he said
to his workman, "Well, John, that is a really beautiful thing you have made there." And the
man replied, "I don't know anything about the beauty of it, but I know it's strong!" The end
to be reached was a support which should be strong. The strong support was felt to be beautiful,
for its lines and masses were apprehended as right. Had the man, with the "little learning"
that is dangerous, attempted embellishment or applied ornament, he would have spoiled the effect;
for ornateness would have been out of place. The perfect fitness of means to end, without defect
and without excess, constituted its beauty; and its beauty was perceived aesthetically, as
a quality inherent in the form, a quality which apart from the practical serviceableness of
the contrivance was capable of communicating pleasure. So in general, when the inherent needs
of the work give shape to the structure or contrivance, the resulting form is in so far forth
beautiful. The early "horseless carriages," in which a form intended for one use was grafted
upon a different purpose, were very ugly. Today the motor-car, evolved out of structural needs,
a thing complete in and for itself, has in its lines and coherence of composition certain elements
of beauty. In his "Song of Speed," Henley has demonstrated that the motorcar, mechanical, modern,
useful, may even be material for poetry. That the useful is not always perceived as beautiful
is due to the fact that the design which has shaped the work must be regarded apart from the
material serviceableness of the object itself. Beauty consists not in the actual material,
but in the unity of relations which the object embodies. We appreciate the art involved in
the making of the first lock and key only as we look beyond the merely practical usefulness
of the device and so apprehend the harmony of relations effected through its construction.
As the lock and key serve to fasten the door, they are useful; they are beautiful as they manifest
design and we feel their harmony. Beauty is removed from practical life, not because it is
unrelated to life,--just the reverse of that is true,--but because the enjoyment of beauty
is disinterested. The detachment involved in appreciation is a detachment from material. The
appreciator may seem to be a looker-on at life, in that he does not act but simply feels. But
his spirit is correspondingly alert. In the measure that he is released from servitude to material
he gives free play to his emotion.

Although beauty is founded upon design, design is not the whole of beauty. Not all objects
which exhibit equal integrity of design are equally beautiful. The beauty of a work of art
is determined by the degree of emotion which impelled its creation and by the degree in which
the work itself is able to communicate the emotion immediately. The feeling which entered into
the making of the first lock and key was simply the inventor's desire for such a device, his
desire being the feeling which accompanied his consciousness of his need. At the other extreme
is the emotion such as attended Michelangelo's vision of his "David" and urged his hand as
he set his chisel to the unshaped waiting block. And so all the way between. Many pictures
are executed in a wholly mechanical spirit, as so much manufacture; and they exhibit correspondingly
little beauty. Many useful things, as a candle-stick, a pair of andirons, a chair, are wrought
in the spirit of art; into them goes something of the maker's joy in his work; they become
the expression of his emotion: and they are so far beautiful. The moral value as such has very
little to do with it. It is a question of emotion. If Stuck were to put on canvas his idea
of peasants at prayer and if Millet had phrased in pictorial terms his feeling about war, there
is little doubt that Millet's painting would be the more telling and beautiful. The degree
of beauty is fixed by the depth of the man's insight into life and the corresponding intensity
of his emotion.

Beauty is not limited to one class of object or experience and excluded from another. A chair
may be beautiful, although turned to common use; a picture is not beautiful necessarily because
it is a picture. "Nothing out of its place is good, nothing in its place is bad," says Whitman,
Whistler speaks of art as "seeking and finding the beautiful in all conditions and in all times,
as did her high priest, Rembrandt, when he saw picturesque grandeur and noble dignity in the
Jews' quarter of Amsterdam, and lamented not that its inhabitants were not Greeks." The beautiful
must exhibit an integrity of relations within itself, and it must be in integral relation with
its surroundings. The standard of beauty varies with every age, with every nation, indeed with
every individual. As beauty is not in the object itself, but is in the mind which integrates
the relations which the object manifests, so our appreciation of beauty is determined by our
individuality. And individuality is the resultant of many forces. The self, inexplicable in
essence, is the product of inheritance, and is modified by environment and training. More than
we realize, our judgment is qualified by tradition and habit and even fashion. Because men
have been familiar for so many centuries with the idea that sculpture should find its vehicle
in white marble, the knowledge that Greek marbles originally were painted comes with something
of a shock; and for the moment they have difficulty in persuading themselves that a Parthenon
frieze colored could possibly be beautiful. Until within comparatively recent years the French
have regarded Shakespeare as a barbarian. The heroic couplet, which was the last word in poetical
expression in the age of Queen Anne, we consider to-day as little more than a mechanical jingle.
Last year's fashions in dress, which seemed at the time to have their merits, are this year
amusingly grotesque. In our judgment of beauty, therefore, allowance must be made for standards
which merely are imposed upon us from without. It is necessary to distinguish between a formula
and the reality. As far as possible we should seek to come into "original relation" with the
universe, freshly for ourselves. So we must return upon our individual consciousness, and thus
determine what is vitally significant to us. For the man who would appreciate beauty, it is
not a question between this or that "school" in art, whether the truth lies with the classicists
or the romanticists; it is not a question of this or that subject or method to the exclusion
of all others. Beauty may be anywhere or everywhere. It is our task and joy to find it, wherever
it may be. And we shall find it, if we are able to recognize it and we hold ourselves responsive
to its multitudinous appeal.

The conception of beauty which limits its manifestation to one kind of experience is so far
false and leads to mischievous acceptances and narrowing rejections. We mistake the pretty
for the beautiful and so fail of the true value of beauty; we are blind to the significance
which all nature and all life, in the lowest and commonest as in the highest and rarest, hold
within them. "If beauty," says Hamerton, "were the only province of art, neither painters nor
etchers would find anything to occupy them in the foul stream that washes the London wharfs."
By beauty here is meant the merely agreeable. Pleasing the river may not be, to the ordinary
man; but for the poet and the painter, those to whom it is given to see with the inner eye,
the "foul stream" and its wharfs may be lighted with mysterious and tender beauty.

And Whistler, by the witchery of his brush and his needle, has transmuted the confusion and
sordidness and filth of this Thames-side into exquisite emotion. The essence of beauty is harmony,
but that harmony is not to be reduced to rule and measure. In the very chaos of the Locomotive
Works we may feel beauty; in the thrill which they communicate we receive access of power and
we are, more largely, more universally. The harmony which is beauty is that unity or integrity
of impression by force of which we are able to feel significance and the relation of the object
to our own experience. It is an error to suppose that beauty must be racked on a procrustean
bed of formula. Such false conceptions result in sham art. To create a work which shall be
beautiful it is not necessary to "smooth, inlay, and clip, and fit." Beauty is not imposed
upon material from without, according to a recipe; it is drawn out from within by the integrating
power of imagination. Art is not artificiality. Art is the expression of vital emotion and
essential significance. The beauty of architecture, for example, consists not in applied ornament
but in structural fitness and adaptability, and grows out of the inherent needs of the work.
The cathedral-builders of old time did not set themselves to create a "work of art." They wanted
a church; and it was a church they built. It is we who, perceiving the rightness of their achievement,
pronounce it to be beautiful. Beauty is not manufactured, but grows; it cannot be laid on as
ornament. Beauty is born out of the contact of the spirit of man with natural forms, that contact
which gives to objects their significance.

The recognition of the true nature of beauty may change for us the face of the world. Some
things are universally regarded as beautiful because their appeal is universal. There are passions,
joys, aspirations, common to all the race; and the forms which objectify these emotions are
beautiful universally. We can all enter into the feelings that gather about a group of children
dancing round a Maypole in the Park; but in the murk and din and demoniacal activity of the
Locomotive Works the appeal is not so obvious. 

"Yes, my dear sir - Semler, is not it?"

"Semper."

"Semper! Pardon! - You see, that's in theory all very much, but how do You do this? We can not educate
our children with every Tom, Dick and Harry together .

Let When our daughters to sit with the daughters of our Grünhökers on the same school, where
should we take our women? "

Asmus felt a strong blow. For every Tom, Dick and Harry and Grünhöker could also »Cigar rollers"
to say. Incidentally, the Professor Asmussen not only a fine cigar served, but it may even fire.

When
the seminarian fifteen minutes later, the thick carpeted staircase went down and the maid handed
him with condescension, the overcoat, he wondered: had I remain silent now? Could I leave it
were insulting my parents for a fine dinner?

May I ever be silent on all these terrible views and create the appearance that I share it?

Of course he had to remain silent, because to interfere would have
been very presumptuous.

     But he could to witness not, aufzuzucken
     without any moment. And he
     remembered the beautiful aristocrat
     word his compatriot Th Storm Reviews

"Where the woman you not the
daughter Dare to desire, would Keep up to value for hospitality to
traffic in the home.

"

The head hanging Asmus sat up high, and reached home, he immediately
wrote to "City of guessing," that he was prevented by private lessons
and other obligations, unfortunately, henceforth to eat to come and
thank him for proven quality.

The rich leather merchant, however, the senator wanted to be, he's held only one meal from.
When they went to dinner, Asmus was about to abandon his chair from the table in order to to
set, when he noticed that all stood behind their chairs to prayer. He joined too fast behind his
chair, folded his hands but not yet lowered his head, to avoid giving the impression that he
pray with.

     The house had acted as if he
     had not noticed; but towards the
     end of the meal, he wove into his edifying
     conversation a little speech, the was:

"Those who pray never comes
to dinner And pray without getting up from the table, Is the same
Oechs and Eslein And does not participate in the kingdom of heaven.

"

Through this loving world view, however, felt Asmus not even convinced so far, that he folded in prayer
after dinner, the hands, but he said on the way home: "Can I expect the people to pray not
for me? Certainly not. Can they require I pray with gratitude for lunch? Nor. I do not pray. So
not. So not, "cried the youth, the most in the opinion of the leather merchant no part of heaven had,
according to himself, so loud that a little boy staring at him and
he nachschaute a while.

     And strangely, he again remembered a stiff-necked
     word Theodor Storms:
     
     "Even the priest remains far from my grave;
     While there are words that Gone with the Wind; But it does not want
to send that protest Preached the, what I will have been However,
I rest under the spell of eternal silence!

"

XVIII. Chapter.

As Asmus sleepwalking and put the mind of Mr. Quasebarth on the head.

As the bargain, the architect moved to southern Germany and this supply to an end found Asmus
saw again all the old points. It was, eager than ever for private lessons auszuschauen, and he
was also always new, but since they were usually poorly paid, he had to give her so many that he
on some days with a three-quarter-hour interruption of seven clock in the morning to eleven clock
in the evening was at work or on the march. At six Clock in the evening he came for lunch.
The dinner was done in ten minutes, and then declined He is back on the sofa, long by 35 minutes
is not to do anything. Such requirements had He previously not known. With an eye on the clock,
he enjoyed the minutes separately, and the time they seemed to be
longer.

"Seven more beautiful minutes," he thought, even six, nor four, "and the last few minutes it cost,
on how individual drops of a precious wine the tongue can melt. Alas, he was overcome with the
dreams and had five minutes enjoyed the time! Now it was run.

One evening on his way home he hit his head against the brick pillars of a garden portal. How could
I go about this? Had he slept in the walk? No, it was not possible. He was bleeding from the
cheek, and the next day he was teased in class, he was bekneipt.

A few days later, the same way, he awoke suddenly in an open place. He had reflect long before
he realized where he was.

He was gone in a completely wrong direction and now had an even further way home than usual, he
was so exhausted that after ten steps to sleep again, but the one-hour route had to be done because
half nothing. He participated in a violent pace and stomped the ground like a Grenadier at parade;
but after a few minutes his steps were slower - slower - slower.

Next Tomorrow he could not remember how he got home.

And a few days later he awoke in the same way home from a trappelnden noise. Distraught, he looked
up and found that he is two prancing horses stood, on his account
no longer wanted.

He jumped to the side, and the driver drove on, cursing and swearing something about "drunkenness"
to himself.

This fear was of more lasting effect that Asmus not asleep again while walking. The theory that
man really needs no sleep at all, he had given up.

Manchesmal in that time he had to think of Adolfine as they tore open
her big mouth laughing and said, "You want to be teachers?

I suppose you are crazy! "- - - -

And who knew if he really threw in the towel one day and cigars to the board went! But there was
Ludwig Semper, his father. Ludwig was the older, the sooner he got up; He slept only a few
hours at night. And early in the morning, he prepared his Son of the coffee and passed him
his bread. And if Asmus finished his modest toilet and had sat down to breakfast drink, he knew
without looking that the view of his Father was upon him. "He is
happy that it tastes good," thought Asmus.

And he is pleased I can go to the seminary and become something that
he could not.

"

Oh, yes, at home, he tasted the bread, but he had to live through the day of bread, because he
was only around 5 or by 6 clock for lunch came, and when he is in at lunchtime seminar unwrapped
his lunch, he shuddered back often and wrapped it again. The air this old school barracks occupied
all air-digestive tract as a foul-tasting Layer, into the stomach into the air, one felt he had to
do violence if he wanted to choke down a bite, and when an eight-year-olds
lack of appetite, lack him a piece of youth.

And one morning he asked Mr. Roth Green to the history lesson:

"You stand in the morning so early?"

"I - oh, no," Asmus said, without understanding.

"You just slept namely," said Mr. Roth green pique tone.

"I? No, "said Asmus, like all people who fall on the sleeping against his will, and in the
Act was passed by the sleep only as a faint cloud in front of his eyes. He had Mr. Roth Green
still speak of the second Samnite War, hear and now he spoke of the third, so could not be
much time elapsed, because Mr. Roth Green completed such things very quickly. And in this same presentation
to interested Asmus Samnite War extremely weak.

Since he left his cheerful feeling, his sense of power in these times, he felt seriously unhappy.
That he had fallen asleep in class, he felt in his embarrassing Sense of honor as a disgrace,
and that he had violated Mr. Roth was green in his vanity, not good, because Mr. Roth green
like forgot difficult, but it all meant nothing against another pain.

This was no longer studying, what he did now! That was nothing but a snap and re-letting go Husch
and the Hui. He was accustomed to what gave him the seminar, at least as much add emulate through
their own work. and his fervor seemed - on important issues and tasks almost everything important
- he has brought together all the representations and processes which it new could offer, and
plowed through them, but he never calmed down in the books, he forced to the ideas of Bacon, a
Comenius, one of Pestalozzi and Herbart, the treatises a Schiller and Lessing, the representations
of a Ranke and Mommsen, regardless of the book, to reconstruct in my own form, their relationships,
where they were missing him, to find themselves; He stayed even as it talks, and yes, he discussed
in the bedroom, according to himself and set reason and counter-argument as it were in an adversarial
proceeding against the other, so that wife Rebecca, for the peace of a study did not have much understanding
sometimes came in smiling and said, "Boy, you first priest again so neat He had. Now even
that passionate desire for clarity, it was as if a voice in it cried leave nothing dark behind
you, otherwise it's all confused Future, and he had the holy faith that whoever is in no unclear
thoughts calm down, and finally the must solve the last puzzle. He was in the mathematics is not satisfied
with the tenets of and prove to solve the problems, he wanted to prove to justify the axioms
and. That each Size itself is the same - of course, the truth of this proposition he understood
intuitively as any normal person, but he wanted to prove it, and that could not be, and it liberate
the oppressed heart in later years should be: the intuitive certainties, they made his pain
during these years. But even more: all that he had understood logically, he would also capture
the senses. It was the artist in him that can not soothe the abstract wanted. The set of Menelaus
of the transversal which intersects the sides of a triangle, understand and logically prove
that a child could, but he also wanted to see that the products the non-adjoining sections are
equal to each other. And you could not. Yes, you could ' calculate it, yes, but that was not a
goodbye! And then joined them that he and a lack to fight in his plant had: in certain matters of physics,
anatomy, botany and so he made the three-dimensional imagining difficulties. When he joined
the Longitudinal section of the human body or a machine or plant vascular system introduced, so he
was bitterly hard to imagine both the transverse section, and he dug his nails into the skin of
the forehead, that it hurt, until he won the right intuition. He felt like he could tighten his
brain, like the muscles of his clenched fist. That the molecular motion and the atomic weight,
magnetism, electricity and other others made him worry is, of course. Why had the double long
lever arm of the half-pound as strong as the whole pound at the simple, why, why in the devil's
name? It was so easy to learn, and so difficult to detect. And he found in his soul urge not always
support. To capture the rapid and clear geometric relationships to practice, loved Asmus, the figures
do not mechanically, but with the possible changes to be repeated in the design and location,
and we know that it is the geometry of fabulous matter whether the Hypothenusenquadrat is up or down,
right or left, they seeing that from the top and down, right and left anything white. But Mr.
Quasebarth, the teacher of mathematics, 'm not prejudice, and as
Asmus filed one day five construction tasks, are not as focused as
Mr. Quasebarth twenty-seven years was used, but on his stomach or
back or were standing on their heads, as he wrote with force including
false "and a four, the worst witness, for he flew through the notebooks
of his Students like an express train that does not go.

Asmus pointed out to him that all tasks have been solved and no doubt
correctly anhätten only it were other than normal pants Mr. Quasebarth
said mockingly, "So," and then he looked into the issue and said,
"The" - and then said He uncertain tone: "That," - and after he had
said even "Hmm," he cried angrily: "Yes, they are probably right,
but what are the changes: You make it but, as all other !

Do "and he took the pen and increased the testimony - by half a degree.

He wanted to expressed that the students worked correctly, the teacher was right, however.

XIX. Chapter.

Asmus accuses due to fraudulent construction and is explained in disrepute.

Yes, the laws of the lever and the wonders of the spectrum and especially those fatal abyss exists between
the physical world and spiritual world, that abyss, we constantly skip without ever seeing him,
they made his nagging worries wild spirit, but it had been worried sweet, happy, worry, worry
that can not be chased, but sought; because that is the divine miracle in all intellectual struggle
that even the defeats us stronger and make free, as long as we hope remains.

The good times of these concerns was gone. With so many private lessons as he could the scantiest
cramming, he could really only work for the ticket. Yes, if a set of rules had read or words
or a biography or a historical period once he knew it, but for how
long?

And what was this superficial "knowledge" for a value? What should be a knowledge building, which had
so dizzy way built games. In fact, he felt like an unscrupulous builders, the damaged walls under
Cleaning hides, and this consciousness of a kind dishonesty tormented him more than any other,
although no one asked him when he made that his testimony could be significantly . Recognize

With
this evidence he had had after the first quarter of a mishap, which
by strange should be consequences.

At quarter-end had in fact spoken to the professor: "The College is unanimously of the opinion
that the class is not harnessed to the extent as it could, and has therefore decided, the
highest in the industry censorship, with one exception not to awarded. This exception is Semper,
it is a one had been granted. "

That was honorable and very dangerous. Asmus immediately felt that sense of touch, the widely beyond
the boundaries of the body goes that his classmates met him differently than usual, it probably
some were there who does not begrudge him happy, but the others were
in the Majority.

Among these was another Wiedemann, a tall young man with the voice of an old Aunt, the movements
of a caterpillar and clammy hands.

Asmussen's hands were dry and very warm, almost hot.

Between those people is something that can not be overcome.

Asmus could not do friendly against this fellow, but did Wiedemann friendly. There were the class an excellent
mathematician, who is especially in arithmetic zuvortat all others.

"The joke is minor, but a great mathematician who said what?"

Wiedemann lurking smile to Semper.

"That's him," replied the latter.

"I consider him the best mathematician in the class," said the lurking.

"Me

too," said Semper and did not understand quite what Wiedemann to this
self-evident intended.

Wiedemann was disappointed.

There was also a seminarian named Frey, who was a clear, efficient and well head a good style
of writing.

One day, pushing the bead approached again.

"The Frey writes it 's great essay, which explored?" Wiedemann.

He writes' n good essay, yes, "said Asmus.

"Well, you have to also say, his article makes him but to no!"

"Soo?" Semper made.

"Yes, are you not believe?"

"No," said Asmus cold.

He knew perfectly well that he's was better. He said although not, but he saw not the slightest reason
to lie to the contrary.

Wiedemann was still a lamb friendly face except the eyes. Eyes Holes that have allowed the Lord God
in the human body such as the peep-holes in a criminal cell, so that
man can not pretend too freely.

Eyes with no hypocrite. Wiedemann Face and voice caressed, but his
eyes stood out when he asked:

"Who writes here for a better essay?"

And although he now Asmus by glimmering green eyes looked up into the kidneys, he said:

"You do not."

In such moments, something came over him as hussars spirit. Wiedemann went away refreshed by.

And he went out like a sower to sow his seed, and spread the news,
Semper had explained for the best essay writers around the class,
he thought at all for the brightest of all the work and find Frey's
"only just about."

He said this particular to Frey. Strangely, however, remained Frey
and Semper best friends.

But otherwise Wiedemann seeds fell on good, fertile land, and Asmus
felt that the Feeling against him grew.

If repeat here the suffering of the boys' school? O, they should not only here!

Among the poisonous plants is one that needs no seed and no germs,
which are also out of nothing may arise as the creation of Yahveh,
that's slander.

It needs only a good Ground, then it creates from nothing.

One day, Asmus provided by Seybold, Seybold of the same, of the Präparandenprüfung such a firm
grasp of Semper's work and such a lively part in his success had expressed. He was surrounded
by a wide corona of seminarians and began thus:
"Here is alleged that you had indicated to the Director, that Mueller
and Warncke after the last Pubs teaching truant and botanical garden
walk her cat had done. "

Asmus Semper would now have been any other,
so he might have said:

"Do your best contact me immediately to the
director so that we can complete this untruth Claim notice. "

Or
he would have spoken like that Yankee, the person put a rogue and
friendly replied:

"So, my dear sir, that you say it, it is far from
proven. But Were he was sober, he would not be the Semper been, and
so he replied:

"Who says that is either a scoundrel or a fool." The
blood of his mother banged flames addition to the roof. 

This answer
was indeed correct, but their accuracy has not been granted.

»Hahaaa,"
hooted the corona, "there you have it, we are all scoundrels and idiots!"

Asmus
would have been that Yankee, he would have said: "This conclusion
lacks quite logical Correctness ", instead he pulled a pale face into
an expression of boundless contempt and said:

"Please, I said, or".

She
was taken aback for a moment, and when they understood that answer,
they blew and declared "Asmus Semper for his" arrogance, his "insolence"
and his "Inkollegialität" into disrepute. The Inkollegialität was
that he knew more and could as Seybold, Wiedemann Company and to grasp
this shamelessly in his work was.

Before Asmussen's eyes was his
old wonderful schoolmaster, Mr. Cremer, as the Quintus Fabius imitated.
He used to make two folds in his coat and say, 'Stand So Quintus Fabius
before the Carthaginian council meeting and said this was in the folds
of my toga I War and Peace - selects "So was the fate in the shape
of the Seybold, Wiedemann and! Enjoyed before him stood, and like
the Carthaginians, he had replied: "Give what you . Want And Quintus
Fabius Seybold had said, have so for war. In this group on the tympanum what animation and spirit!
This moulding of leaves and blossoms is cut with such loving fidelity and exquisite feeling
for natural truth! But at the last the separate members fulfill their appointed office as they
reveal the supreme function of the living total form.

Music, too, in some of its manifestations, as in song, the opera, and programme music, has
a representative and illustrative character. In Chopin's "Funeral March" we hear the tolling
of church bells, and it is easy to visualize the slow, straggling file of mourners following
the bier; the composition here has a definite objective base drawn from external fact, and
the "idea" is not exclusively musical, but admits an infusion of pictorial and literary elements.
In listening to the love duet of the second act of "Tristan," although the lovers are before
us in actual presence on the stage, I find myself involuntarily closing my eyes, for the music
is so personal and so spiritualized, it is in and of itself so intensely the realization of
the emotion, that the objective presentment of it by the actors becomes unnecessary and is
almost an intrusion. The representative, figurative element in music may be an added interest,
but its appeal is intellectual; if as we hear the "Funeral March," we say to ourselves, This
is so and so, and, Here they do this or that, we are thinking rather than feeling. Music is
the immediate expression of emotion communicated immediately; and the composition will not
perfectly satisfy unless it is music, compelling all relations of melody, harmony, and rhythm
into a supreme and triumphant order.

Whereas the representative arts are based upon objective fact, drawing their "subjects" from
nature and life external to the artist; in decoration, in architecture, and in music the artist
creates his own forms as the projection of his emotion and the means of its expression. Richard
Wagner, referring to the composition of his "Tristan," writes: "Here, in perfect trustfulness,
I plunged into the inner depth of soul events, and from out this inmost centre of the world
I fearlessly built up its outer form. . . . Life and death, the whole import and existence
of the outer world, here hang on nothing but the inner movements of the soul. The whole affecting
Action comes about for the reason only that the inmost soul demands it, and steps to light
with the very shape foretokened in the inner shrine." The form, thus self-constituted, has
the power to delight us, and the work is at the same time the expression of emotion. The arts
of form please us with the pleasure that attends the perception of formal beauty; but this
pleasure docs not exhaust their capability to minister to us. What differentiates art from
manufacture is the element of personal expression. Born out of need, whether the need be physical
or spiritual, fulfilling the urge to expression, a work of art embodies its maker's delight
in creating. Correspondingly, beyond our immediate enjoyment of the work as form, we feel something
of what the man felt who was impelled to create it. His handiwork, his pattern, his composition,
becomes the means of communicating to us his emotional experience.

Obviously the significance of any work is determined primarily by the intensity and scope of
emotion which has prompted it. The creation of works of art involves all degrees of intention,
from the hut in the wilderness rudely thrown together, whose purpose was shelter, to a Gothic
cathedral, in its multitudinousness eloquent of man's worship and aspiration. The man who moulded
the first bowl, adapting its form as closely as possible to its use and shaping its proportions
for his own pleasure to satisfy his sense of harmony and rhythm, differs from the builders
of the Parthenon only in the degree of intensity of his inspiring emotion and in the measure
of his controlling thought. The beauty of accomplished form of cathedral and of temple is compelling;
and we may forget that they rose out of need. Both hut and bowl are immediately useful, and
their beauty is not so evident,--that little touch of feeling which wakens a response in us.
But in their adaptation to their function they become significant; the satisfaction which accompanies
expression is communicated to us as we apprehend in the work the creator's intention and we
realize in ourselves what the creation of it meant to him as the fulfillment of his need and
the utterance of his emotion.

So the expressive power of an individual work is conditioned originally by the amount of feeling
that enters into the making of it. Every phrase of a Beethoven symphony is saturated with emotion,
and the work leads us into depths and up to heights of universal experience, disclosing to
us tortuous ways and infinite vistas of the possibilities of human feeling. A simple earthen
jug may bear the impress of loving fingers, and the crudely turned form may be eloquent of
the caress of its maker. So we come to value even in the humblest objects of use this autographic
character, which is the gate of entrance into the experience of the men who fashioned them.
Every maker strives toward perfection, the completest realization of his ideal within his power
of execution. But the very shortcomings of his work are significant as expressive of what he
felt and was groping after; they are so significant that by a curious perversion, machinery,
which in our civilized day has supplanted the craftsman, tries by mechanical means to reproduce
the roughness and supposed imperfections of hand work. Music is the consummate art, in which
the form and the content are one and inextricable; its medium is the purest, least alloyed
means of expression of instant emotion. Architecture, in its harmonies and rhythms, the gathering
up of details into the balanced and perfect whole, partakes of the nature of music. But the
arts of use and decoration also have their message for the spirit. There is no object fashioned
by the hand of man so humble that it may not embody a true thought and a sincere delight. There
is no pattern or design so simple and so crude that it may not be the overflow of some human
spirit, a mind and heart touched to expression.

IX

REPRESENTATION

BEFORE me is a little bowl of old Satsuma. As I look at it there wakens in me a responsive
rhythm, and involuntarily my fingers move as if to caress its suave and lovely lines. The rich
gold and mingled mellow browns of its surface pattern intricately woven are a gracious harmony
and a delight. Gradually, as I continue to look on it, a feeling is communicated to me of the
maker's own joy in his work; and the bowl, its harmonies and rhythms, and all that it expresses,
become part of me. There it is, complete in itself, gathering up and containing within itself
the entire experience. My thoughts, sensations, feelings do not go beyond the bowl.

Another time I am standing in the hall of the Academy in Florence. At the end of the corridor
towers a superb form. I see that it is the figure of a youth. His left hand holds a sling drawn
across his shoulder; his right arm hangs by his side, his hand grasping a pebble close to his
thigh; calm and confident, his head erect, his strength held in leash waiting to be loosed,
he fronts the oncoming of the foe. The statue is the presentation of noble form, and it wakens
in me an accordant rhythm; I feel in myself something of what youthful courage, life, and conscious
power mean. But my experience does not stop there. The statue is not only presentation but
representation. It figures forth a youth, David, the Hebrew shepherd-boy, and he stands awaiting
the Philistine. I have read his story, I have my own mental image of him, and about his personality
cluster many thoughts. To what Michelangelo shows me I add what I already know. Recognition,
memory, knowledge, facts and ideas, a whole store of associations allied with my previous experience,
mingle with my instant emotion in its presence. The sculptor, unlike the potter, has not created
his own form; the subject of his work exists outside of him in nature. He uses the subject
for his own ends, but in his treatment of it he is bound by certain responsibilities to external
truth. His work as it stands is not completely self-contained, but is linked with the outer
world; and my appreciation of it is affected by this reference to extrinsic fact.

An artist is interested in some scene in nature or a personality or situation in human life;
it moves him. As the object external to him is the stimulus of his emotion and is associated
with it, so he uses the object as the symbol of his experience and means of expression of his
emotion. Here, then, the feeling, to express which the work is created, gathers about a subject,
which can be recognized intellectually, and the fact of the subject is received as in a measure
separate from the feeling which flows from it. In a painting of a landscape, we recognize as
the basis of the total experience the fact that it is a landscape, so much water and field
and sky; and then we yield ourselves to the beauty of the landscape, the emotion with which
the artist suffuses the material objects and so transfigures them. Into representative art,
therefore, there enters an element not shared by the arts of pure form, the element of the
subject, carrying with it considerations of objective truth and of likeness to external fact.
Toward the understanding of the total scope of a picture or a statue, and by inference and
application of the principles, toward the understanding of literature as well, it may help
us if we determine the relation of beauty to truth and the function and value of the subject
in representative art.

The final significance of a work of art is beauty, received as emotional experience. Nature
becomes beautiful to us at the point where it manifests a harmony to which we feel ourselves
attuned. At the moment of enjoyment we unconsciously project our personality into this harmony
outside of us, identifying ourselves with it and finding it at that instant the expression
of something toward which we reach and aspire. When we come consciously to reason about our
experience, we see that the harmony external to us which we feel as the extension of ourselves
does not stop with the actual material itself of nature, but emanates from it as the expression
of nature's spirit. The harmony is a harmony of relations, made visible through material, and
significant to us and beautiful in the measure that we respond to it.

It is the beauty of the object, its significance for the spirit, that primarily moves the artist
to expression. Why one landscape and not another impels him to render it upon his canvas is
not to be explained. This impulse to immediate and concrete utterance is inspiration. And inspiration
would seem to be a confluence of forces outside of the individual consciousness or will, focused
at the instant into desire, which becomes the urge to creation. The artist does not say, "Lo,
I will paint a landscape; let me find my subject!" The subject presents itself. There it is,
by chance almost,--a sudden harmony before him, long low meadows stretching away to the dark
hills, the late sun striking on the water, gold and green melting into a suffusing flush of
purple light, a harmony of color and line and mass which his spirit leaps out to meet and with
which it fuses in a larger unity. In the moment of contact all consciousness of self as a separate
individuality is lost. Out of the union of the two principles, the spirit of man and the beauty
of the object, is born the idea, which is to come to expression as a work of art.

But the artist is a mind as well as a temperament. Experience is a swing of the pendulum between
the momentary ecstasy of immediate contact and the subsequent reaction upon the moment, which
is consciousness of it. In order to make his vision actual, the artist rises out of the domain
of feeling into that of thought. The landscape has compelled him; it is now he who must compel
the landscape. The candidate was against him terribly. He could not understand 'it is that one individual
People hated it when they were bad, he could hate, oh sure, passionate, if not long, but that
they hate a whole class of people, condemn, insult and all the suffering you might want to the
neck, which infuriated him like a coarseness of the heart, and one day this outrage swelled
so powerful in him that he, blushing all over, the candidate replied:

"You forget but not how they treated the Jews."

"Oh, that was not so bad," said the theologian mockingly.

"Really? Have you Freytag's pictures from the German past "read?"

"Nope."

"Well,
since you can read it; Freytag is certainly impartial. The principles of perspective have been
worked out with a precision that entitles them to rank as a science. Color has its laws, which,
again, science is able to formulate. These processes and formulas and laws are not the whole
of art, but they have their place. The power to feel, the imaginative vision, and creative
insight are not to be explained. But knowledge too, acquired learning and skill, plays its
part, and to recognize its function and service is to be helped to a fuller understanding of
the achievement of the artist.

Gifted with a vibrant, sensitive temperament, endowed with discriminating and organizing power
of mind, equipped with a knowledge of the science and the mechanics of his craft, and trained
to skill in manual execution, the artist responds to the impulse of his inspiration. His subject
is before him. But what is his subject? A scene in nature furnishes him the objective base
of his picture, but properly his work is the expression of what he feels. A storm may convey
to different men entirely different impressions. In its presence one man may feel himself overwhelmed
with terror. These wild, black skies piling in upon him, the hilltops that seem to race through
the clouds, the swaying, snapping trees, the earth caught up in the mad grasp of the tempest,
may smite his soul with the pitilessness of nature and her inexorable blind power. Another
thrills with joy in this cosmic struggle, the joy of conflict which he has known in his own
life, the meeting of equal forces in fair fight, where the issue is still doubtful and victory
will fall at last upon the strong, though it is not the final triumph but the present struggle
that makes the joy. In rendering the "subject" upon his canvas, by the manipulation of composition
and line and mass and color, he makes the storm ominous and terrible, or glorious, according
as he feels. The import of his picture is not the natural fact of the storm itself, but its
significance for the emotions.

A work of representative art is the rendering of a unity of impression and harmony of relations
which the artist has perceived and to which he has thrilled in the world external to him. He
presents not the facts themselves but their spirit, that something which endows the facts with
their significance and their power to stir him. As the meaning of nature to the beholder is
determined by the effect it produces on his mind and temperament, so the artist, in the expression
of this meaning, aims less at a statement of objective accuracy of exterior appearance than
at producing a certain effect, the effect which is the equivalent of the meaning of nature
to him. Thus the painter who sees beyond the merely intellectual and sensuous appeal of his
subject and enters into its spirit, tries to render on his canvas, not the actual color of
nature, but the sensation of color and its value for the emotions. With the material splendor
of nature,--her inexhaustible lavish wealth of color, the glory of life which throbs through
creation, the mystery of actual movement,--art cannot compete. For the hues and tones of nature,
infinite in number and subtlety, the painter has only the few notes within the poor gamut of
his palette. How can he quicken his dull paint with the life-beat of palpitating flesh, or
the sculptor animate the rigid marble with the vibrations of vivid motion? But where nature
is infinite in her range she is also scattering in her effects. By the concentration of divergent
forces, art gains in intensity and directness of impression what it sacrifices in the scope
of its material. Michelangelo uses as his subject David, the shepherd-boy; but the person,
the mere name, does not signify. What his work embodies is triumphant youth, made visible and
communicable. When Millet shows us the peasant, it is not what the peasant is feeling that
the artist represents, but what Millet felt about him. The same landscape will be rendered
differently by different men. Each selects his details according to the interest of his eye
and mind and feeling, and he brings them into a dominant harmony which stands to him for the
meaning of the landscape. None of the pictures is an accurate statement of the facts as they
are, off there in nature; all are true to the integrating inner vision. The superficial observer
sees only the accidents, and he does not distinguish relative importance. The artist, with
quicker sensibilities and a trained mind, analyzes, discovers the underlying principle, and
then makes a synthesis which embodies only the essential; he seizes the distinctive aspect
of the object and makes it salient. There may be, of course, purely descriptive representation,
which is a faithful record of the facts of appearance as the painter sees them, without any
feeling toward them; here he works as a scientist, not as an artist. Merely imitative painting
falls short of artistic significance, for it embodies no meaning beyond the external fact.
It is the expressiveness of the object that the true artist cares to represent; it is its expressiveness,
its value for the emotions, that constitutes its beauty.

To achieve beauty the representative artist bases his work upon the truth of nature. It is
nature that supplies him with his motive,--some glimpse, some fragment, which reveals within
itself a harmony. It may be a form, as a tree, a man, a mountain range, the race of clouds
across the sky; it may be a color-harmony or "arrangement," in which color rather than form
is the dominant interest, as with a landscape or an interior; it may be the effects of light,
as the sunshine playing over golden haystacks, or the glint of light on metal, or the sheen
of lovely fabrics. Out of the complex of interests and appeals which an object offers, what
is the truth of the object? The truth of nature resides not in the accidents of surface but
in the essential relations, of which the surface is the manifestation. A birch tree and an
apple tree are growing side by side. Their roots strike down into the same soil, their branches
are warmed by the same sun, wet by the same rains, and swept by the same winds. The birch tree
is always lithe and gracious and feminine; the apple tree is always bent and sternly gnarled
like the hand of an old man. The life-force which impels the tree to growth is distinctive
to each kind. Within all natural objects, then, a crystal, a tree, a man, there is a shaping
principle which determines their essential form. But no two individual apple trees are precisely
alike; from the essential form of the tree there are divergences in the single manifestations.
Though subject to accident and variation, however, every tree exhibits a characteristic, inviolate
tendency, and remains true to the inner life-principle of its being. The "truth" of the apple
tree is this distinctive, essential form, by virtue of which it is an apple tree and not some
other kind, the form which underlies and allows for all individual variations. What the painter
renders on his canvas is not the superficial accidents of some single tree, but by means of
that, he seeks to image forth in color and form the tendency of all trees. The truth of an
object presents itself to the imagination as design, for this organic, shaping principle of
things, expressed in colored myriad forms throughout the endless pageantry of nature, is apprehended
by the spirit of man as a harmony; and in the experience of the artist truth identifies itself
with beauty.

The distinction between the accidental surface of things and the significance that may be drawn
out of them is exemplified by the difference between accuracy and truth in representation.
Accurate drawing is the faithful record of the facts of appearance as offered to the eye. Truth
of drawing is the rendering in visible terms of the meaning and spirit of the object, the form
which the object takes not simply for the eye but for the mind. A pencil sketch by Millet shows
a man carrying in each hand a pail of water. The arms are drawn inaccurately, in that they
are made too long. What Millet wanted to express, however, was not the physical shape of the
arms, but the feeling of the burden under which the man was bending; and by lengthening the
arms he has succeeded in conveying, as mere accuracy could not express it, the sensation of
weight and muscular strain. In Hals' picture of the "Jester" the left hand is sketched in with
a few swift strokes of the brush. But so, it "keeps its place" in relation to the whole; and
it is more nearly right than if it had been made the centre of attention and had been drawn
with the most meticulous precision. The hand is not accurate, but it is true. Similarly, size
is an affair not of physical extent but of proportion. A figure six inches high may convey
the same value as a figure six feet high, if the same proportions are observed. A statue is
the presentation, not of the human body, but of the human form, and more than that, of what
the form expresses. When I am talking with my friend I am aware of his physical presence detaching
itself from the background of the room in which we are. But I feel in him something more. And
that something more goes behind the details of his physical aspect. His eyes might be blue
instead of brown, his nose crooked rather than straight; he might be maimed and disfigured
by some mishap. These accidents would not change for me what is the reality. My friend is not
his body, though it is by his body that he exists; the reality of my friend is what he essentially
is, what he is of the spirit. A photograph of a man registers certain facts of his appearance
at that moment. The eye and the mind of the artist discern the truth which underlies the surface;
the artist feels his sitter not as a face and a figure, a mere body, but as a personality;
and the portrait expresses a man.

As grasped by our finite minds, there are partial truths and degrees of truth. There are, for
example, the facts of outer appearance, modified in our reception of them by what we know as
distinct from what we really see. Thus a tree against the background of hill or sky seems to
have a greater projection and relief than is actually presented to the eye, because we know
the tree is round. Manet's "Girl with a Parrot," which appears to the ordinary man to be too
flat, is more true to reality than any portrait that "seems to come out of its frame." Habitually
in our observation of objects about us, we note only so much as serves our practical ends;
and this is the most superficial, least essential aspect. Projection is a partial truth, and
to it many painters sacrifice other and higher truths. Manet, recovering the "innocence of
the eye" and faithful to it, has penetrated the secrets and won the truth of light. Botticelli
saw the world as sonorous undulations of exquisite line; and his subtly implicated, evanescent
patterns of line movement, "incorrect" as they may be superficially in drawing, caress the
eye as music finds and satisfies the soul. When such is his power over us, it is difficult
to say that Botticelli had not some measure of the truth. The world of the Venetians sang full-sounding
harmonies of glorious color. Velasquez saw everything laved around with a flood of silver quiet
atmosphere. All in their own way have found and shown to us a truth.

To render what he has seen and felt in the essence and meaning of it, the artist seeks to disengage
the shaping principle of the particular aspect of truth, which has impressed him, from all
accidents in its manifestation. To make this dominant character salient beyond irrelevant circumstance,
art works by selection. Art is necessarily a compromise. It isolates some elements and sacrifices
others; but it is none the less true on that account. The mere material of the object is more
or less fixed, but the relations which the object embodies are capable of many combinations
and adjustments, according to the mind and temperament of the individual artist who is moved
by it. All art is in a certain sense abstraction; all art in a measure idealizes. It is abstraction
in the sense that it presents the intrinsic and distinctive qualities of things, purged of
accident.

Art does not compete with nature; it is a statement of the spirit and intention of nature in
the artist's own terms. The test of the work is not apparent and superficial likeness, but
truth. Art idealizes in the measure that it disengages the truth. In this aspect of it the
work is ideal as distinct from merely actual. There is a practice in art which draws its standard
of beauty, its ideal, not from nature but from other art, and which seeks to "improve nature"
by the combination of arbitrarily chosen elements and by the modification of natural truth
to fit a preconceived formula. The Eclectics of Bologna, in the seventeenth century, sought
to combine Raphael's perfection of drawing and composition, Michelangelo's sublimity and his
mastery of the figure, and Correggio's sweet sentiment and his supremacy in the rendering of
light and shade, fondly supposing thus that the sum of excellent parts is equivalent to an
excellence of the whole. This is false idealism. The Greeks carried their research for certain
truths of the human form to the point of perfection and complete realization. The truth of
the Greeks was mistaken by the pseudo-classicists and misapplied. Thus Delacroix exclaimed
ironically, "In order to present an ideal head of a negro, our teachers make him resemble as
far as possible the profile of Antinöus, and then say, 'We have done our utmost; if, nevertheless,
we fail to make the negro beautiful, then we ought not to introduce into our pictures such
a freak of nature, the squat nose and thick lips, which are so unendurable to the eyes.'" True
idealism treats everything after its own kind, making it more intensely itself than it is in
the play of nature; the athlete is more heroically an athlete, the negro more vividly a negro.
True idealism seeks to express the tendency by virtue of which an object is what it is. The
abstraction which art effects is not an unreality but a higher reality. It is not the mere
type, that art presents, for the type as such does not exist in nature. The individual is not
lost but affirmed by this reference to the inner principle of its being. A good portrait has
in it an element of caricature; the difference between portraiture and caricature is the difference
between emphasis and exaggeration. Art is not the falsification of nature, but the fuller realization
of it. It is the interpretation of nature's truth, the translation of it, divined by the artist,
into simpler terms to be read and understood by those of less original insight. The deeper
the penetration into the life-force and shaping principle of nature, the greater is the measure
of truth.

In representative art the truth of nature is the work's objective base. What the artist finally
expresses is the relation of the object to his own experience. A work of art is the statement
of the artist's insight into nature, moulded and suffused by the emotion attending his perception.
Of the object, he uses that aspect and that degree of truth which serve him for the expression
of his feeling toward it. What is called "realism" is one order of truth, one way of seeing.
"Impressionism" is another order of truth. "Idealism" is still another. But all three elements
blend in varying proportion in any work. Even the realist, who "paints what he sees," has his
ideal, which is the effect he sets himself to produce by his picture, and he paints according
to his impression. He renders not the object itself but his mental image of it; and that image
is the result of his way of seeing and feeling, his habit of mind, his interest, and his store
of memories. The idealist must base his work upon some kind of reality, or it is a monstrosity;
he is obliged to refer to the external world for his symbols. The impressionist, who concerns
himself with the play of light over surfaces in nature, is seeking for truth, and he cares
to paint at all because that play of light, seemingly so momentary and so merely sensuous,
has a value for his spirit of which he may or may not be wholly conscious; and these shifting
effects are the realization of his ideal. Unwitting at the moment of contact itself of the
significance that afterwards is to flow articulately from his work, the artist, in the presence
of his object, knows only that he is impelled to render it. »Herrrr, I will insert into the hole, herrrr!"

But he put no one in the hole, not even Buesing who deserves it but rather had. Busing had
been drinking in the morning target practice too much, "target water", the pub was in all too tempting
proximity of the shooting. Mr. Birkenfeld, of an understanding Liver had had said. "Go home
and sleep off" She's had so Buesing thoroughly concerned that afternoon one hour he had come
too late for duty. Buesing was but this has still not been enough of the violence, he was smiling
at the mouth Lieutenant reported as saying:

"From Sleeping back!"

Since he had indeed Birkenfeld aufgebrummt three days, but he had him on the same day adopted.
If he curses and tempestuously and decreased with a drawn sword and the parade be wider blond
beard in the wind blew, he looked like a bully, and yet he is a human heart from the base of the man
for whom the words "good, comradely behavior" were not only on paper and the common soldiers
in the equal worth and Arms comrades saw. Once he had but a telling bit too juicy. When the Office
of Education candidate Thölemann that looked like a future pastor said, and felt like a wet pants
depended on high bar and make as little as this garment was a chin-able, cried because Birkenfeld:

»Herrrr,
sei'n Se non so weak, herrrr!

Deubel noch'n times! Guy has the whole course Overnight at Wachtmann 't go round! "

"Watch man" was a pretty unethical dance and night club, and wanted to Thölemann can not offer.
He wanted to complain about Birkenfeld. And it was the best witness for this lieutenant that
the comrades Thölemannen discouraged, because the insults Birkenfeld should not take a tragedy, not
least Asmus was one of the offender. He loved those people who were carried away by temper and passion,
and it basically of the heart mean well but he felt used them. By the way, thought Birkenfeld
his diagnosis again asked Thölemann pardon, and the matter was settled.

Bitching and ranting that is two things that proved Asmussen His Excellency the shooting officer. Asmus received
by any chance no dummy and she should be from Shooting Sergeant pick. He sought the Lord, took
the proper attitude and said:

"May I ask for my dummy?"

Since the shooting, Mr Sergeant Asmus Semper cast a long look of speechless
indignation at.

But at last he found words, and said the weighty sentence:

"Man,
you're as stupid as naughty!"

The boundless stupidity and insolence Asmussen was, in part, that he accepted the Lord Shooting
officer will now outside the reception time you feel like giving
him the cartridges.

Asmus, who had experienced the abuse to blush behind the ears, saw the man sharply in the eye and
said:

The Lord Lieutenant sent me. "

No way now claimed the sergeant that the lieutenant as stupid as cheeky was, he hastened to the
contrary, the administering to the Semper cartridges. It was the same advanced Peasant lad who had
taught a school candidates about the fact that it not "Serschant,
but "Schersant" and not "Premier-lieutenant," but "Premihr Lieutenant-hot."

As

Asmus returned with his cartridges on the yard and the received pattern
repeated, as he had to laugh out loud about the humor of the situation.

But when he was the physiognomy this man had stood, it was him but
hot shot into the brain, the beating lout behind the ears, for from
this cold insolent eyes it had the power-drunk Brutality of the upstart
brutality, had stared at him the type of soldiers Flayer.

And yet, the shooting officer was still love in comparison to the assistant surgeon Rhineland.

XL.
Chapter.

What? The guy limps on one foot? Asmus gets to know a stupid and a smart doctor.

Asmus tolerated distinguished himself with his service, the "slow step" and the gun handles were not
burning so interesting to read Kant and Rousseau, or not comparable; But he said to himself,
not life can always be entertaining, and when he touched a job he made them as good as possible.
He had also for the explicit recognition of the Lord found from Birkenfeld and the magister #
# magistorum Greifenberg. And the marching and field service training were now almost a pleasure
and a joy. They taught him his physical strength and Endurance, whom he had greatly underestimated. When he
saw that he was marching in full uniform Load in the running and jumping and uphill gleichtat
hügelab the longest and fattest, indeed endured longer than many Schlagetot - because the
greatest are not the strongest - then raised his breast an ineffable feeling of happiness, the
feeling of a winner, a self- overcame and dominated all his own world. Often it's heart beat
wildly, and not always It was easy for him, this rush forward and throwing and jumping reconstruction
and re-storming; but what a noise delighted him feel that his power to the last group and
from cause the most secret sources and by a mere "I want" any difficulty to overcome. And all
had this war game, it breaks through the field and Heath, be due
to a combat outpost and patrol walking his beauty, his charm, his
poetry.

But despite all that, he was lame, one morning, he had it with the
slow pace and parade so well meant that he was a sprain of the Achilles
tendon had closed on the left foot.

Nevertheless, he tried to march to really bite and the pain, but he did so it only gets worse.

»Log
revier sick," said Mr. von Birkenfeld.

The district was the assistant surgeon Rhineland.

He paid tribute to the ailing parts of the patient hardly a glance, besides, he did not look at
her. He cured without fear or favor. He pressed hard with his finger on the swollen heel of the
musketeer Semper, and this winced.

"How dare you," snapped the Doctor. Asmus had no idea that a soldier never twitches. He certainly
did not know how else should the doctor know about his pain, because
he neither asked nor took in some way to further investigation.

He explained Semper for fit for duty, for he was one of those military
doctors rid of the disease, before they have recognized it.

You make this way a dashing impression deter the Malingerers scored
from a good health statistics and forwards with his knowledge.

Of course, lagged further Asmus.

"Semper, fetch you the Deubel!

They are lagging so still, "shouted the lieutenant.

Asmus told how he fared.

"You go out kicking and down again tomorrow," Birkenfeld decided.

The next morning, Asmus reappeared in the area.

This time not even pressed Mr. Rheinland with the finger, he cast a contemptuous look at the
common soldiers heel and wrote, that the musketeer Semper was fit
for duty.

In the parade of the musketeer Semper drilled like a musketeer Hephaestus or Mephistopheles.

"Semper,"
roared v. Birkenfeld. "Mr. Semper, I command you, that you let the limp; I forbid you to simply
limp herrrr! "

The commands of the Lord Lieutenant of the Achilles tendon but were not decisive.

"Semper musketeer," shouted Mr. von Birkenfeld. Asmus took hold of the gun and ran, limping his
superiors. "What did she say to the doctor?"

"He took me to speak without examination and without a word, written fit for duty."

"So you geh'n home, lie down on the sofa and ask 's medical student. Dismissed! "

That did Asmus. The "studied medicine" put on a bandage, and was in two days Tendon healed.

Moreover, he departed from this period with incomparably friendly feelings when he had felt upon
entering. Of course, life in the barracks, he had a very volatile met and when he introduced
himself: three years in the terrible banality of this Spaces in which to spend the choking prose of
this "internal service" - he ran his cold down the back. But if he wanted to be fair, he had
to confess that in his Experience the good and salutary impressions predominated. Not a little
contributed to this mood an upscale health feeling. He has always been a healthy person, but
now was him conscious of his health, formally, he felt like bursting in his veins and a noise
swell his muscles. Apart from a dull seminar times, he always had a blessed Expressed an appetite, but
he had never felt such bliss ardent devotion, as after stalwart services before the sausages and beer
bottles in the cafeteria. When, after a four hour march such a liter bottle of brown beer to
his mouth lifted - because the soldier has not always Glass at hand - and for minutes not put
down again, then he closed his eyes devoutly, and too, was a fervent
prayer of thanks to the power that created him healthy and such delights
was capable.

In general, these six weeks of life in the flesh, he was interested
only physical, and when he went to his bookshelf and on the back of
the volumes names as "Lessing," "Comenius" and "Euripides," read,
then he came before these civilians as people of which in ancient
times once he had heard, thought to take out a book and read, seemed
completely absurd.

The body was the mind only as much force choice but to gentle dementia was absolutely necessary:
​​Asmus vegetating in these six Weeks, and it even changed the spiritual moment of the service,
the instruction hours of gun cleaning, rank conditions and articles of war nothing substantial,
so beautiful, they also sometimes might be.

Sergeant Greifenberg, the teacher of the teacher knew, even the simplest Things for the brightest minds
to make clear, and if he has the lock of the infantry rifle Model 71 instructed, then would the inventor
of the castle, if he had listened to his own invention not understood. Mr. Birkenfeld, however
operation of the subtlest logical separations, especially when he
had loaded cognac.

"What is courage and bravery is what" he asked one day musketeer Semper.

Asmus had to reflect for a moment and then said, "courage and bravery are well in essentially
the same, a frame of mind, which is recognized by a non-threat scare
leaves.

You could say that the courage more a matter of personal disposition and more impulsive Nature, while
the bravery a dutiful perseverance in danger within itself .....!«

"No, no, that's nothing," said Mr. waving from Birkenfeld. "Frame of mind, what state of mind! The
soldier does not have moods! If it is, because the wall must be cracked down; Then he jumps, and
that is courage. Bravery is however something quite different. Shows bravery the soldier to
enemy bullets and bayonets over!

"

     
     From such moments Asmus was always very cheerful home, and when his
brothers Reinhold Adalbert and stood there and made front, he thanked
all of the top down, like a all the supreme war lord or as the resident
Rhineland, if he was an Achilles heel showed.

Then cried Reinhold and Adalbert, "Look at the clown, he plays on"
And then!

Asmus moved the side-arm and shouted: "If attacks on its soldiers
must honor the soldier make use of the weapon, "and took up to fratricide.

And

yet the last afternoon of his service was a most sympathetic Asmus
Acquaintance.

A lieutenant of the reserve plan and explained the idea in the morning
taken Field service training, and he did it so fine, so fresh and
so clear that Asmussen's schoolmaster heart jumped for joy.

"If this is not a schoolmaster, I want to be archbishop," thought
Asmus, and was hailed as the discharge from the service in the canteen
with a common trunk, Asmus was in the neighborhood of the same lieutenant,
who soon found to be high school teacher, Dr. # # Rumolt were seen.

They sang the emotional and solemn song:

"After so much cross and endured suffering, yes!

You expect the joys of heaven, yes!

"

"Yes, yes, the joys of heaven," said Rumolt. "Now it goes back into the classroom."

"Yes," said Asmus with glee.

"Look forward to it?"

"Oh yes!"

"Then you are a lucky man."

"Are you not like a teacher?"

"Oh," was Rumolt, "I knew nothing better than a teacher -. If only it could be"

"What do you mean?" Asmus said eagerly, and now they came in a conversation about modern Education,
and Asmus made this man a fund, which battles with him in the coming the system Drögemüller should
be a refreshment.

XLI. Chapter.

The school on the grassy slope.

And the struggles with this system were soon back to their newly-happy beginning, and in Asmussen
grew lively doubt as to whether it is pleasant under the corporal's stick or live under the
pen holder of a bureaucrat.

It was not to be denied, Drögemüller usually had the letter of the law itself, and there were
many laws with lots of letters. These laws could be tolerable in the hands of a man who is
the spirit from the letter but to know, but he tightened these laws even more by his personality.
If you he sought to make clear that the teacher is an artist, his work of free movement, the
good mood and create a cheerful mood needed that one so with liberality
and must be treated with respect for his character, then showed a
face Drögemüller mad, but superior smile, as they were speaking Chinese
to him, as he understood the Chinese better.

If the regulation prescribed four written papers of the week and were made only three, then
did not care Drögemüller that the criminal with self-sacrificing Enthusiasm and truest zeal to work and
used his advanced class so far was like any - he knew no shame in the mind and insisted on
his bond. Not what has been created to honor and to increase, but to search for violations
- is recognized his divine work. To this end, he stole about everywhere with his notebook, to
this end he even listened to the doors, and it improved his mood against Asmussen not, as this
one day a door behind which he suspected Mr Drögemüller, with great
power opened it and it hit the sharpest elbow of the boss.

"Excuse me," said Asmus, "I could never have imagined that they were standing behind the door."

If now Asmus was aware that he made everything a human authority could ask him, he spoiled but
this Aufpasserei some of its best power. He was there felt like the traveler who visits a holy
place and from all Angles trinkgeldsaugende eyes fixed on him looks, a great, free movement of
the heart could not pay.

So it was consolation and refreshment, with # # Dr. Rumolt, his new
Friends, to speak in free evening hours from the school of the future
at least.

They were the Flottbeker road, the most lovely country road in the world, moved down, had turned
into a narrow pass leading down to the river and had been on a bench established at half height
of the road. Before them spread a flowery meadow slope, of bushes encircled, and over the bushes
away you could see the great, silent, majestic Current. The meadow was part of a farm mill, and
the sleepy old mill turned their wings.

"Look," said Rumolt, "That would be 'a school room, eh? What do you think on this field with his boys
or girls lie and talk of grass and flowers, frogs and butterflies,
from bush and tree, from cattle and sheep, by Muller and mill, ship
and marine, from the fleets of the Hansa and Störtebekers robber trips,
and then with boys or girls rowing or sailing down and tell them where
the heroes of the Gudrun saga on the Wulpensande fought and out of
Hettel Hegelings usual.

Do you not think that them as a different world would rise as the ones they are simulated between
four walls as a "world"? "

"I think, however."

"Get out into the open! - That's the whole secret of education. The world and see and touch,
that's all. They call it intuition with God when they show pictures and products in the room.
It's as if someone give a talk over the sea and to illustrate some Drops of sea water would show
in a test glass. They show a few drops of Sea of ​​life. - Look here, this area, this farm, this
current, as far as we him see, this sky, to enclose almost all human knowledge and cognition.
On this Spot you could actually learn anything that can need to know
the man and.

"

"But in the long run it would be boring to your students."

"Certainly, we want to move from place to place. I will only demonstrate that nature everywhere
Million points of offers, which are present in the school-room only
in the imagination.

For the knowledge of the school is no knowledge.

Can knowledge, only what you can, who knows one also. own actions, even create the child,
if it is to learn. When I share would be in my profession, my students
would have to drive without exception agriculture. Not that they would
all countrymen, preserve, and many indeed would have no talent for
it - but agriculture encompasses nearly the whole circle of human
knowledge and ability, and he teaches this knowledge and skills through
action! "

"The lessons, as you imagine it," said Asmus, "would, however,
a much smaller Number of pupils require. "

"Certainly," continued
Rumolt. "I think a teacher can only teach so many children really
as a father can possibly educate, and twelve, the venerable patriarch
figure appears me as extreme as the measure. "

"Since we need many
teachers, and that men of extremely versatile education."

"The fact
that our teachers could receive a better education than they at seminars
and universities Most find that they devour the best power in a remote
data and knowledge fritter need, you know as well as I do. But otherwise
you may not be my teacher imagine how an omniscient master of today.
He will not be ashamed, a learner with learners to be, and will hesitate
a moment to say: 'I do not know, I going to teach me look ', or' searches
for himself, and who found it, the tell us'. "

"The most banal objection
is weighty," said Asmus, "the money. The state would have to a very
different school coffers down from the present. "

Yes - hahahaha
- that he would, "laughed Rumolt. "He would have to be at the really
quite obvious idea to get used, that he has no higher task than the
education of its citizens, that he can not better care for its own
stock than the education of his Citizens, and that he therefore should
not have a bigger budget than its education budget. "

"Instead, he
makes the one-year certificate for educational ideal," remarked Asmus.

"Yes,"
Rumolt hit him laughing on the knee. "Is actually an angry posse possible?
A military advantage as bacon in the case of the soul! It is true
that no life is isolated; as every atom throughout the universe is bound to every other atom
by subtlest filaments of influence, so each human life stands related to all other lives. But
the man best pays his debt of service to others who makes the most of that which is given him
to work with; and that is his own personality. We must begin at the centre and work outwards.
My concern is with my own justice. If I worry because my friend or another is not just, I not
only do not make him more just, but I also fail of the highest justice I can achieve, which
is my own. We must be true to ourselves. We help one another not by precept but by being; and
what we are communicates itself. As physical life propagates and thus continues itself, so
personality is transmitted in unconscious innumerable ways. The step and carriage of the body,
the glance of the eye, the work of our hands, our silences no less than our speech, all express
what we are. As everything follows upon what we are, so our responsibility is to be, to be
ourselves completely, perfectly.

A tender shoot pushes its way out of the soil into light and air, and with the years it grows
into a tree. The tree bears fruit, which contains the seed of new manifestations of itself.
The fruit falls to the ground and rots, providing thus the aliment for the seed out of which
other trees are to spring. From seed to seed the life of the tree is a cycle, without beginning
and without end. At no one point in the cycle can we say, Here is the purpose of the tree.
Incidentally the tree may minister to the needs and comfort and pleasure of man. The tree delights
him to look upon it; its branches shade him from the noonday sun; its trunk and limbs can be
hewn down and turned to heat and shelter; its fruit is good to eat. The primary purpose of
the fruit, however, is not to furnish food to man, but to provide the envelope for the transmission
of its seed and the continuance of its own life. Seen in its cosmic bearing and scope, the
purpose of the tree is to be a tree, as fit, as strong, as beautiful, as complete, as tree-like,
as it can be. The leaf precedes the flower and may be thought on that account to be inferior
to it in the scale of development. If a leaf pines and withers in regret that it is not a flower,
it not only does not become a flower, but it fails of being a good leaf. Everything in its
place and after its own kind. In so far as it is perfectly itself, a leaf, a blossom, a tree,
a man, does it contribute to the well-being of others. Man has subdued all things under his
feet and turned them to his own uses. By force of mind he is the strongest creature, but it
is not to be inferred that he is therefore the aim and end of all creation. Like everything
else, he has his place; like everything else he has the right to live his own life, triumphing
over the weaker and in his turn going down before a mightier when the mightier shall come;
like everything else he is but a part in the universal whole. Only a part; but as we recognize
our relation to other parts and through them our connection with the whole, our sense of the
value of the individual life becomes infinitely extended. We must get into the rhythm, keeping
step with the beat of the universal life and finding there our place, our destiny, the meaning
of our being here, and joy. The goods which men set before themselves as an end are but by-products
after all. If we pursue happiness we overtake it not. If we do what our hands find to do, devotedly
and with our might, then, some day, if we happen to stop and make question of it, we discover
that happiness is already there, in us, with us, and around us. The aim of a man's life in
the world, as it would seem, is to be perfectly a man, and his end is to fulfill himself; as
part of this fulfillment of himself, he provides for the continuance of his life in other lives,
and transmitting his character and influence, he enriches other lives because of what he is.
The purpose of seeing is that we may see more, and the eye is ever striving to increase its
power; the health of the eye is growth. The purpose of life is more life, individual in the
measure that it lies within a man's power to develop it, but cosmic in its sources and its
influence.

As the harmony which a work of art presents finds a place in that harmony of experience and
outward-reaching desire which constitutes our personality, art becomes for us an entrance into
more life. In the large, art is a means of development. But as any work embraces diverse elements
and is capable of a various appeal, it may be asked in what sense the appreciation of art is
related to education and culture. Before we can answer the question intelligently, we must
know what we mean by our terms. By many people education is regarded as they regard any material
possession, to be classed with fashionable clothes, a fine house, a carriage and pair, or touring-car,
or steam yacht, as the credential and card of entrée to what is called good society. Culture
is a kind of ornamental furniture, maintained to impress visitors. Of course we ourselves do
not think so, but we know people who do. He at least could
from the sacred mysteries of the Sabbath not find back in the day, if not a long, deep sleep
between them was. Over and over he called these festively dressed Jews back to childhood, the unforgettable
days when he middle of the snowy winter sunny land of Abraham had seen and signed with Eliezer
to Rebekah at the well of the city Nahor. If he did but at the Feast of Tabernacles with the
apple of paradise and with myrtles, palms and pastures to transform the synagogue looked, then
turned to the way in which Oldensund forty-year desert trek of the bitter waters of Mara and
the oasis of Elim up to the day because Jericho fell under the Hall of trumpets, he saw the ährensammelnde
Ruth on the field of Boaz and saw the harp of Israel hung on the willows of Babylon.

Beautiful as the child was now after all the concerns and struggles, the time of the seminar visit,
when she was nearing its end. Ludwig Semper earnings had increased a little, Asmussen Scholarship
was increased to two hundred and forty marks a year; a few good private lessons did the rest,
a magazine had accepted a few poems by Asmus Semper, and from America came good news.

But under all this was not the best. That which made the whole world as sacred and beautiful, was
studying. Not studying for the seminar, in which was still not much joy to . Fetch No, the study
that no one from him when he asked himself And that was the Saturday so unspeakably beautiful, because
now he could study all day Sunday about what he wanted. Of course, Ms Rebecca their concerns.
 Walt Whitman, as we might expect from
his passion for the vital and the human, has said: "You must not know too much and be too precise
and scientific about birds and trees and flowers and watercraft. Even Ruskin, whose learning
was extensive and various, bears witness to the same effect. He notes "the diminution which
my knowledge of the Alps had made in my impression of them, and the way in which investigation
of strata and structure reduces all mountain sublimity to mere debris and wall-building." In
the same spirit he planned an essay on the Uses of Ignorance. From the midst of his labors
in Venice he wrote: "I am sure that people who work out subjects thoroughly are disagreeable
wretches. One only feels as one should when one doesn't know much about the matter." In other
words, we are not to let our knowledge come between us and our power to feel. In thus seeming
to assail education I am not seeking to subvert or destroy; I want simply to adjust the emphasis.
The really wise man is he who knows how to make life yield him its utmost of true satisfaction
and furnish him the largest scope for the use of his powers and the expression of himself.
In this sense a newsboy in the streets may be wiser than a university professor, in that one
may be the master of his life and the other may be the servant of his information. Education
should have for its end the training of capacities and powers, the discipline and control of
the intelligence, the quickening of the sympathies, the development of the ability to live.
No man is superior to his fellows because of the fact of his education. His education profits
him only in so far as it makes him more of a man, more responsive because his own emotions
have been more deeply stirred, more tolerant because his wider range has revealed more that
is good, more generous to give of his own life and service because he has more generously received.
It is not what we know nor what we have that marks our worth, but what we are. No man, however
fortunate and well-circumstanced he may be, can afford to thank God that he is not as other
men are. In so far as his education tends to withdraw him from life and from contact with his
fellows of whatever station, in so far as it fosters in him the consciousness of class, so
far it is an evil. Education should lead us not to judge lives different from our own, but
to try to understand and, to appreciate. The educated man, above all others, should thank God
that there are diversity of gifts and so many kinds of good.

Art is a means of culture, but art rightly understood and received. Art does not aim to teach.
It may teach incidentally, tangentially to its circle, but instruction, either intellectual
or ethical, is not its purpose. It fulfills itself in the spirit of the appreciator as it enables
him in its presence to become something that otherwise he had not been. It is not enough to
be told things; we must make trial of them and live them out in our own experience before they
become true for us. As appreciation is not knowledge but feeling, so we must live our art.
It is well to have near us some work that we want to be like. We get its fullest message only
as we identify ourselves with it. If we are willing to be thought ignorant and to live our
lives as seems good to us, I believe it is better to go the whole way with a few things that
can minister to us abundantly and so come to the end of them, than to touch in superficial
contact a great many lesser works. 

He knew very well that the main cause was the envy of their hostility. However, other Students
gave probably one cause for envy, why did not the hatred against the outbreak, or if he broke out,
in so much more harmless form? He did not have the gift to the people to win in the first assault,
he knew it. It was not pretty, though Flora, the seductive Neighbor's daughter, and that little lady,
with whom he once had played comedy unmistakably him and liked to have had him so in no way hidden,
and he had no pleasantries, the charm quickly. But because he had something repulsive, something that would
make him enemies?

He did it without knowing it and to want.

     
     

The word of Polonius to his son:

"Hardness your hand not by the pressure Of each newly spawned any brother "

had always liked him so well because it corresponded to his nature
as well.

Often felt he is by the first encounter with a person liking or dislike, and where he dislike
felt he had something at once by a steep wall, not up it was at. The people take very ill
and call it overbearing or arrogant.

     And he was much too young to be considered
     objectively and to recognize this train
     to itself.
     

After all, he had a minority on his side. It was at the outbreak of the conflict is Morieux beaten
with a thousand heroic facial and body contortions to Semper, such as Duke Ernst Werner von
Kiburg to when he calls:

"I'll go round, a twofold outlaw, To my heel attached to the death, And with curses krachet
my neck.

From Werner I do not let! "

and seven or eight and ingenious had joined him. This was the group Semper; at the enemy but
they were called the sheep ", because in accordance with their general opinion an inglorious
civilized behavior exhibited.

XX. Chapter.

Asmus, despite his sad experiences differ with Schiller and falls into a unrequited love.

The sheep would now have to be non-German youths, if they are not immediately a club would have
combined. The club was called "faithfulness of 1880," by which but should not be said that this
was for the loyalty a particularly good year, we just wanted to since the Federal Government
would no doubt take it to the days of Judgement, the sexes posterity the Year a memorable for all.
The eight or nine Seminarians were soon joined by some musicians, young businessmen and officials,
and now was It was dissolved at the highest and deepest problems
of art and life, and questions the before and oddly enough, even after
the greatest minds set in motion have. Semper was presented and spoke
today about the Grail temple in Albrecht von Scharfenberg and the
Gothic style, the next time about meteors and meteorites, and again
the next Time he made bold thought of Schiller's poem "The arrival
of the new century," whose He resigned pessimism, of course, join
as an eight-year-old could not. His But the highlight was "Faust,"
which he recited from his head, and only one thing troubled him a
bit to his friends, so approvingly they recorded the serious parts
of the seal, but always at the most unruly of the booze in Auerbach's
cellar and the "damned carrion" and the "cursed sow" in the witch's
kitchen cheered. Art has a message for us as it tallies with what we already
know about life; and, quickening our perceptions, disclosing depths of feeling, it carries
us into new ranges of experience.

In this attitude toward life lies the justice of the personal estimate. The individual is finally
his own authority. To find truth we return upon our own consciousness, and we seek thus to
define our "original relation" to the universal order. So as one stands before the works of
the Italian painters and sculptors, for example, in the endeavor rightly to appreciate what
they have achieved, one may ask: How much of life has this artist to express to me, of life
as I know it or can know it? The country is divided into 16 land managed by Drosten Districts,
at the head is an elected president for five years, one from 46, people elected-member legislature,
the law. State Church is the Low German Reformed, But all religions are tolerated. Government revenues flow mostly
from direct taxes and customs duties, amounted to the same 1887: 668.433 pounds Sterl, spending
721.073 pounds Sterl.. The public debt amounts to 430 000 pounds
 Whether it be Credi's naïve womanhood,
or Titian's abounding, glorious women and calm and forceful men, or Delia Robbia's joyous children
and Donatello's sprites, the same great meaning is expressed, the same appreciation of the
goodness and beauty of all life. This beauty is for me, here, to-day. In the experience of
a man who thinks and feels, there is a time when his imagination turns toward the past. At
the moment, as the world closes in about him, his spirit, dulled by the attrition of daily
use and wont, is unable to discern the beauty and significance of the present life around him.
For a time his imagination finds abundant nourishment in the mighty past. Many spirits are
content there to remain. But life is of the present. To live greatly is to live now, inspired
by the past, corrected and encouraged by it, impelled by "forward-looking thoughts'" and providing
for the future, but living in to-day. Life is neither remembrance nor anticipation, neither
regret nor deferment, but present realization. And with the architect, it was really beautiful!
The childless, young married people treated him much like a guest; the girl served until the
lady, then him and then only for the master and the mistress schanzte him always very good bite,
peeled and cut him with his own hands Apples and oranges. Asmus was from this pure goodness
so ashamed that he initially with trepidation not speak and could not eat. But the casual friendliness
of the hosts that do not to notice his embarrassment and awkwardness seemed to him helped over
all fears; the landlord gave him ever again, treated him as an old comrade, and teased Kneip present
at all the tenderness his wife so funny and at ease, as if no one for an old Friend!

"Help yourself, Mr. Semper, go for it," he said.

"My wife is hoping that by nachbleibt what the ice - namely, it nibbles, but we are responsible
for their health; It may not remain. "

Then the gentle woman threatened her husband smiling with his finger and pushed the ice cream cake
Asmussen with a gleam in their eyes as they care for the young seminarians
in their desired child.

How different it was going "to City Council for". As Asmus was right
the first time in addition to a to sit pompous lady, her name was
"woman" Senator, and he was sort of their table sir. Between her and
him was on the table a bottle of red wine. Often we purchase experience with enthusiasm;
we become wise at the expense of our power to enjoy. What we need in relation to art is not
more knowledge but greater capability of feeling, not the acquisition of more facts but the
increased power to interpret facts and to apply them to life. In appreciation it is not what
we know about a work of art, it is not even what we actually see before us, that constitutes
its significance, but what in its presence we are able to feel. The paradox that nature imitates
art has in it this much of truth, that art is the revelation of the possibilities of life,
and we try to make these possibilities actual in our own experience. Art is not an escape from
life and a refuge; it is a challenge and reënforcement. Its action is not to make us less conscious
but more; in it we are not to lose ourselves but to find ourselves more truly and more fully.
Its effect is to help us to a larger and juster appreciation of the beauty and worth of nature
and of life.

Art is within the range of every man who holds himself open to its appeal. On Henry's train to Savoy (1600),
p. conquered the impregnable fortress held Montmelian and Bourg. After Peace, he took the title
of a hereditary master of the ports, rivers and canals, the Department of public works, took
up duties, said the grain trade for free, put Channels in this position and did much to improve
the communication of Country. At the same time he also led the external negotiations.
 Hope is the vision of things to be. And love is the supreme enfolding unity that makes
all one. Art is life at its best, but life is the greatest of the arts,--life harmonious, deep
in feeling, big in sympathy, the life that is appreciation, responsiveness, and love.

