WACOUSTA;

  or

THE PROPHECY.

Volume Three of Three

by

John Richardson

CHAPTER I.

The night passed away without further event on board the schooner, yet in all the anxiety that
might be supposed incident to men so perilously situated. Habits of long-since acquired superstition,
too powerful to be easily shaken off, moreover contributed to the dejection of the mariners,
among whom there were not wanting those who believed the silent steersman was in reality what
their comrade had represented,--an immaterial being, sent from the world of spirits to warn
them of some impending evil. What principally gave weight to this impression were the repeated
asseverations of Fuller, during the sleepless night passed by all on deck, that what he had
seen was no other, could be no other, than a ghost! exhibiting in its hueless, fleshless cheek,
the well-known lineaments of one who was supposed to be no more: and, if the story of their
comrade had needed confirmation among men in whom faith in, rather than love for, the marvellous
was a constitutional ingredient, the terrible effect that seemed to have been produced on Captain
de Haldimar by the same mysterious visitation would have been more than conclusive. The very
appearance of the night, too, favoured the delusion. The heavens, comparatively clear at the
moment when the canoe approached the vessel, became suddenly enveloped in the deepest gloom
at its departure, as if to enshroud the course of those who, having so mysteriously approached,
had also so unaccountably disappeared. Nor had this threatening state of the atmosphere the
counterbalancing advantage of storm and tempest to drive them onward through the narrow waters
of the Sinclair, and enable them, by anticipating the pursuit of their enemies, to shun the
Scylla and Charybdis that awaited their more leisure advance. The wind increased not; and the
disappointed seamen remarked, with dismay, that their craft scarcely made more progress than
at the moment when she first quitted her anchorage.

It was now near the first hours of day; and although, perhaps, none slept, there were few who
were not apparently at rest, and plunged in the most painful reflections. Still occupying her
humble couch, and shielded from the night air merely by the cloak that covered her own blood-stained
garments, lay the unhappy Clara, her deep groans and stifled sobs bursting occasionally from
her pent-up heart, and falling on the ears of the mariners like sounds of fearful import, produced
by the mysterious agency that already bore such undivided power over their thoughts. On the
bare deck, at her side, lay her brother, his face turned upon the planks, as if to shut out
all objects from eyes he had not the power to close; and, with one arm supporting his heavy
brow, while the other, cast around the restless form of his beloved sister, seemed to offer
protection and to impart confidence, even while his lips denied the accents of consolation.
Seated on an empty hen-coop at their head, was Sir Everard Valletort, his back reposing against
the bulwarks of the vessel, his arms folded across his chest, and his eyes bent mechanically
on the man at the helm, who stood within a few paces of him,--an attitude of absorption, which
he, ever and anon, changed to one of anxious and enquiring interest, whenever the agitation
of Clara was manifested in the manner already shown.

The main deck and forecastle of the vessel presented a similar picture of mingled unquietness
and repose. Many of the seamen might be seen seated on the gun-carriages, with their cheeks
pressing the rude metal that served them for a pillow. Others lay along the decks, with their
heads resting on the elevated hatches; while not a few, squatted on their haunches with their
knees doubled up to their very chins, supported in that position the aching head that rested
between their rough and horny palms. A first glance might have induced the belief that all
were buried in the most profound slumber; but the quick jerking of a limb,--the fitful, sudden
shifting of a position,--the utter absence of that deep breathing which indicates the unconsciousness
of repose, and the occasional spirting of tobacco juice upon the deck,--all these symptoms
only required to be noticed, to prove the living silence that reigned throughout was not born
either of apathy or sleep.

At the gangway at which the canoe had approached now stood the individual already introduced
to our readers as Jack Fuller. The same superstitious terror that caused his flight had once
more attracted him to the spot where the subject of his alarm first appeared to him; and, without
seeming to reflect that the vessel, in her slow but certain progress, had left all vestige
of the mysterious visitant behind, he continued gazing over the bulwarks on the dark waters,
as if he expected at each moment to find his sight stricken by the same appalling vision. It
was at the moment when he had worked up his naturally dull imagination to its highest perception
of the supernatural, that he was joined by the rugged boatswain, who had passed the greater
part of the night in pacing up and down the decks, watching the aspect of the heavens, and
occasionally tauting a rope or squaring a light yard, unassisted, as the fluttering of the
canvass in the wind rendered the alteration necessary.

"Well, Jack!" bluntly observed the latter in a gruff whisper that resembled the suppressed
growling of a mastiff, "what the hell are ye thinking of now?--Not got over your flumbustification
yet, that ye stand here, looking as sanctified as an old parson!"

"I'll tell ye what it is, Mr. Mullins," returned the sailor, in the same key; "you may make
as much game on me as you like; but these here strange sort of doings are somehow quizzical;
and, though I fears nothing in the shape of flesh and blood, still, when it comes to having
to do with those as is gone to Davy Jones's locker like, it gives a fellow an all-overishness
as isn't quite the thing. You understand me?"

"I'm damned if I do!" was the brief but energetic rejoinder.

"Well, then," continued Fuller, "if I must out with it, I must. I think that 'ere Ingian must
have been the devil, or how could he come so sudden and unbeknownst upon me, with the head
of a 'possum: and then, agin, how could he get away from the craft without our seeing him?
and how came the ghost on board of the canoe?"

"Avast there, old fellow; you means not the head of a 'possum, but a beaver: but that 'ere's
all nat'r'l enough, and easily 'counted for; but you hav'n't told us whose ghost it was, after
all."

"No; the captain made such a spring to the gunwale, as frighted it all out of my head: but
come closer, Mr. Mullins, and I'll whisper it in your ear.--Hark! what was that?"

"I hears nothing," said the boatswain, after a pause.

"It's very odd," continued Fuller; "but I thought as how I heard it several times afore you came."

"There's something wrong, I take it, in your upper story, Jack Fuller," coolly observed his
companion; "that 'ere ghost has quite capsized you."

"Hark, again!" repeated the sailor. "Didn't you hear it then? A sort of a groan like."

"Where, in what part?" calmly demanded the boatswain, though in the same suppressed tone in
which the dialogue had been, carried on.

"Why, from the canoe that lies alongside there. I heard it several times afore."

"Well, damn my eyes, if you a'rn't turned a real coward at last," politely remarked Mr. Mullins.
"Can't the poor fat devil of a Canadian snooze a bit in his hammock, without putting you so
completely out of your reckoning?"

"The Canadian--the Canadian!" hurriedly returned Fuller: "why, don't you see him there, leaning
with his back to the main-mast, and as fast asleep as if the devil himself couldn't wake him?"

"Then it was the devil, you heard, if you like," quaintly retorted Mullins: "but bear a hand,
and tell us all about this here ghost."

"Hark, again! what was that?" once more enquired the excited sailor.

"Only a gust of wind passing through the dried boughs of the canoe," said the boatswain: "but
since we can get nothing out of that crazed noddle of yours, see if you can't do something
with your hands. That 'ere canoe running alongside, takes half a knot off the ship's way. Bear
a hand then, and cast off the painter, and let her drop astarn, that she may follow in our
wake. Hilloa! what the hell's the matter with the man now?"

And well might he ask. With his eyeballs staring, his teeth chattering, his body half bent,
and his arms thrown forward, yet pendent as if suddenly arrested in that position while in
the act of reaching the rope, the terrified sailor stood gazing on the stern of the canoe;
in which, by the faint light of the dawning day, was to be seen an object well calculated to
fill the least superstitious heart with terror and dismay. Through an opening in the foliage
peered the pale and spectral face of a human being, with its dull eyes bent fixedly and mechanically
upon the vessel. 

"Oh, the two crates here, then that case there, and the boxes and travel bags."

"Hmm, that however - even diluted grabs - unusually bad on a horse,
but this is the least - there are certain things for Mrs. Olnitzki "?

"For the most part, as well as my own luggage."

"Very well, then we will also counsel, said the good-natured hunter -" You ought not to get across your
little car through the green briar ridge can, Rose More? after you go smooth and easy to open
through the forest, close up at the Bayo. "

"On the green briar ridge with the car, man," but said the old man, while shaking his head, "Think
your way out, because we would have to hew until a proper road through brushy hollow, and afterwards
remained still stuck in the swamp on the other side. No, not in a week we would bring the ready,
but with the animals at the overcup flat is towards it well, and
the Boxes and bags are just not overly difficult, and can be quite
good on a pack saddle .

Download Of course one must herumlaviren after hard in the forest
with the animals, free web through durchzufinden the trees, but we
can, and I dare them in five to six hours to lead across.

"

"But your Dun will not want to wear."

"Bah, I just Widdersons both mules in my Fenz, which he brought back from Santa Fe has and will
take up to Batesville, which may abverdienen their food. "

"That would be excellent," said Jack Owen, "but when will the lady to leave for Olnitzkis want?
"

Oh just as soon possible, "- cried Mademoiselle Seebald -" I would go through the night, see
the nurse only an hour earlier to greet.

"

"It wants us through the forest but are probably difficult," laughed the good-natured hunter, "but
get up tomorrow morning dawned I serve, and am happy to carry you over, and I but to go home.
"

"But not before breakfast," they could get here Mrs. Rose More in the speech, "with an empty stomach
No one leaves my house if I can help it, and the girls are up early be that it is not too
long. "

Amalie of Seebald said likes the friendly request, nor do they not their leader move away even
before breakfast did, and the men looked at is now the baggage, and made their division with
the packing, which should be distributed to the two mules, after which Jack Owen himself to
come back with his horse, and make up the rest wanted. The mules Bill Jones should get himself
over with his servant, Jack Owen but wanted to go ahead with the rapid improvement after Lady
Olnitzkis.

The morning came, and with beating heart had Amalie made their preparations
for the march, as Jack Owen, After completion of breakfast, a women's
saddle on his horse, strapped, before the door appeared, and the lady
invited him to mount his beast, while he himself forward on foot went.

The young lady confessed with blushes now, of course, that they have never been on a horse sat,
the objection was not heeded, Jack Owens was recognized the most pious pony Their range in the
left, above and next to blast off as the rider just fancy took her, was his firm secure step
quietly away, almost like a mule. The girls helped her laughing while in the saddle arranged her clothes,
she gave a small crop in the Hand to push the animal forward, and Jack Owen, with the long rifle
on his shoulder, umbellt of five powerful males, it went on, into the dark forest.

Second chapter

The Countess Olnitzka.

In the beginning of Seebald Amalie had to do enough with her horse and the new seat on which they
had not felt safe, and therefore are probably not able, the unusual the movement there, and the
frequent rubbing of the overhanging bushes took their whole Attention, and they were anxious to
stop it at the button of the saddle, not fall off as they still feared. The good-natured animal
that Jack Owen on his hunting had been so trained to follow him like a dog, but was such a quiet
safe step, and did so not about the wild and cheerful, it umbellenden
dogs respecting only on the way and about the roots and stems lying
down, that they soon accustomed to and after barely a half-hour ride
already almost forgot the fear felt by then.

Jack Owen was here most of her, her often you find that box on the left shoulder, hung above
the piston, the left hand down, the dogs behind, which now, in real Wood in it, could make no
more noise, not to scare away wild standing around somewhere, and his eyes wandered here quietly
and searching all open positions which they passed, often stuck on one, from the autumn-colored
bush, if not yet in the reddened leaves the slender figure of a deer, mountains and then looked
back into the soft soil of the Path of the newly depressed tracks of deer or vermin, the to
and fro were changed.

They had traveled in silence a large portion of the path, and Amalie already saw in each spot of
lighter forest lay before them, the much-awaited opening of her brother Farm, but a thicket just
moved to the other, the way, the hitherto fairly wide had passed into the woods, became a
narrow, little more traveled path, and still were not those traces of civilization, the more
inseparable from a settlement are, and how the thin smoke over a city, the proximity of the creative
bustle active People betrayed.

No wagon had pressed the ground here ever its wheels, no Axe still touching the powerful tribes,
and even the few horse tracks were in the path of Deer and panther
tracks become almost unrecognizable, and yet they approached more
and more the farm of the Count, but was only a short distance more
forest, they separate from it.

Only one there was possible that his whole movement was north of him to that city, had to
lie to him but probably closer than Little Rock, perhaps even by the current Connection easier,
but the poor girl's heart was filled yet, so they wanted to fight
against it, with a vague fear, and if they are also not Give name,
knew she urged at last, by her taciturn leader, the uncanny Feeling
scared to see.

"It's so lonely here and be quiet," she finally broke the silence, "and yet we can not be removed
as far more of that farm, which will perform this way. "

"In an hour you can's from here, at least in this time of year to
go," said the Man, "but in the winter is it further, because the trenches
are then filled with water, and one must Make detours to avoid their
filth.

"

"That is Olnitzki has settled so deep in the forest," said the German,
almost more to himself talking to himself as the leader.

"Yes, s' is a little lonely here, at least for a woman," was the reply,
"but the man feels more comfortable under the trees, and me, when
shall I admit, however, not fatal to the world than when I come to
a Fenz -. except my own "

"How Sidonie has just endured."

"Is that the name of your sister?"

Asked the hunter, with a bit quieter voice, and his eyes slipped over the form of strangers
out volatile but searchingly.

Yes - you know him, the next neighbor, "said Amalie quickly and somewhat
dismayed?.

"It is customary for us to call the women only after the name of her husband," replied the Hunter,
"even our own, but one I can still have surely heard it once, because
I was more often used together with Olnitzki.

"

? "And now no more" -

"Oh, yes, yes, and then, at least," the man said evasively, "He's just like we others - not
just easy going nature, and holds his gun and dog for the best Company in the world. "

"But the poor woman - she runs at least with their neighbors," asked Amalie?.

"You? - Oh yes - I suppose "- said the hunter -" last winter, she was twice in our , Both here
and my old man there, too, and how her sick child was two years ago
and then died, at least one neighbor of the women is constantly and
alternately with her was - she was even then ill himself, and had
but have a care.

"

"Dear God sighed, last winter," Amalie quiet and barely audible to
himself, and the Forest seemed extremely weird to rush to his solitude
in the desert.

She feared also from the moment really to do one more question, until their leader himself
again broke the silence.

"You have not seen her sister for a long time?"

"For ten years."

"A long time ago and we are here."

"Sidonie was still so young as she left the home."

"From happy, calm conditions, said perhaps out" of the hunter, and his eyes it wandered back over
the narrow forest horizon that he was free because, according to Wilde . Auszuspähn

"From the happiest," said the sister, sighed thinking of the time, "Dear God, desire had everything
your heart desires, can, reared in abundance and wealth, it was worn by the older ones on their
hands, and the future would have glänzenste in their old homeland laughed. "

"Well," said the hunter, throwing his rifle over his shoulder a little further, and the Tabackssaft
his Priemchens oak splashing against the next - "hm - and Mr. Olnitzki had a lot of money? "

"The Count Olnitzki? - No, "said Amelia," fleeing from Poland, where his people against scattered, it
was confiscated by the Russian Czar, the goods, he was himself to return to his country was cut
off, and those unfortunate brave remained then nothing left to look for in the new world as well
as a new home and establish. "

"But how he got there so quickly, the rich woman?" Asked the practical American, half in disbelief
to shaking his head.

"I do not know if you remember that time," she said, sighing deeply again Amalie "Do not know
if you shared our feelings at that time in America, but in Germany was it's almost as if a new
breath of life come upon the whole people, and the dreaming Nations have roused from their sleep.
A cry went through Germany to Poland Districts, not with governments that do not spoil the
Nordic giant wanted but among the nations. But rather than take up the sword for the threatened,
oppressed Neighboring country were content, the men to organize collections, the wounded and robbed
to bring help, the women plucked lint and bandages, and sent to the canvas lazaretto, and beaten
as the final battle, as the vast Russian army in the tiny Kingdom with their masses flooded
when Poland crushed, destroyed, under the trampling horses his enemies were, and the few of his
brave warriors who have fought through to the border, had to enter foreign soil, seeking help,
especially since it was Germany, which to them his Arms, opened the her in his family, to his
hearth, took the sick and wounded cultivated and strengthened, the
poor, supported the vanquished sat up, with comfort and hope and their
own deeds.

Parties, balls and concerts were given sums of money to get together and to give the fugitives travel
money to America, and particularly women and girls competed is to
show their sympathies for the trampled Nationality of the unfortunate.

We carried in the loops of our costumes and ornaments, only the colors
of Polish, Polish flags fluttered in the enlightened party rooms,
and many, many of us gave what they of jewelry and gold ornaments
had her willing to exalt the donation to the brave warrior.

"

"Hm, hm, hm, hm," said the hunter, while shaking his head violently, quickly find the horse was
walking.

"Even in our family," continued Amalie, "we had taken a young noble Poles, of our threshold,
shaking with fever, chill, with a lot of unhealed wounds with torn Uniform, the fall near
already entered, and hardly a camp set up for themselves, as a violent
fever threatening his life, and took him for months to the brink of
the grave.

Sidonie and I nursed him in time like sisters, more especially no more of Sidonie his bed, and we had
the joy of the unhappy after many moons, the life, Health returns to see. Finally completely
restored, and plenty of everything mistaken what he needed to such a long journey, wanted my
older then dismissed the stranger - But it was too late; Sidonie heart clung to the stranger,
and could - it would not . Let Father and mother begged and conjured them - nothing, not the
poles could more on German soil being, our German governments feared the displeasure of the Czar
to excite, and with the warm spring air moved over the mountains, and flows from our Ice freed
- with the first ship that sailed the thawed power - left Sidonie Olnitzkis wife as his father's
house. "

Amalie was silent, and Jack Owen went back quite a long time silent,
but quite heavy sigh next to her horses - at last he said softly:

"But
Olnitzki had assets as he entered America."

"My father is wealthy, and did not want the daughter to the uncertainty of a fight for themselves
Existence disclose. "

Jack Owen stopped and looked surprised by the strange and uncertain - he had apparently not quite
understood what she meant by the words.

»Olnitzki has not put his money over from Poland," he asked at last.

"So rich he might have been there," said Amelia, "the war all devoured, and those noble heart
threw not only her life, no All that they called the earth their own in the shell, to save the
country. "

"Hm, hm, hm, hm hm," said the hunter again, and strode forward quickly, as if he missed the Minutes
must request, but he answered nothing, seemed even more distant every
conversation to want to avoid, and it dealt exclusively with the way
that here in the That was still rather rough and tumble, and his attention
was in stock, to break the foreigners only reasonable path.

Amalie felt, however, disturbed by the their conspicuous behavior of the officer drove her horse,
now completely accustomed to the ride, and made audacious by the rolling step of the animal,
something sharper pace with the Whip in, and said, half shyly, half-decided any further uncertainty
to an end make:

"How's my sister - she is happy, and she lives just as we in Germany expected that she would have
to live and should "? -

"Hush," said their leader, but the only answer, and down quickly but gently in the twisted her right
hand, remained the docile, attentive animal as rooted in the ground
stand, did not move with the head, tail or mane, shaking either.

The hunters, however, with hand slowly to make, no quick striking motion, pointing to the front, showed
the Strangers who followed the outstretched finger with his eyes, the slim beautiful figure
of a stately stag, which had emerged from a dense thicket and, no Risk knowing slowly over a
small forest clearing over äßte.

Carefully, the hunter took his cap from his head, she let slip noiselessly to the ground, and a movement
of his hand, with a view to the clever beasts commanded well understood, the dogs to protect
the place until he shall return. Only one of them, Deike, an old scar ragged fellow with a very short
tail, and just such abgeschlagenem ears been supported, just as if his master would not have
wanted more from him than was absolutely necessary, did excluded from the order, and when the
hunter now, crouching down and protecting use of a small bush, quickly but silently through
the damp yellow, the floor covering Hardwood glided, he followed close on his heels, holding,
stand when that was, and carefully striding when it was time for
the hunter vorzuschleichen further.

Amalie itself but forgot in the new impression of the hunt, now the forest with its own hardly unsuspected
magic filled for the moment at least, everything else. This chic, so sure feeling wild and the wise
in the grass depressed dogs, and the lively expressive form the hunter with the creeping beast
at his heels, the horse itself on which she sat, the anxious faces as the wise head to the soft
rustle of her dress, the noise the powerful top to transit through the far, far across, the
shrill cry of a hawk drowned - They almost instinctively pressed her right hand on his heart, so
loud it was now his Knock before, and while she feared in anxious concern for the life of
the beautiful beast, The so free and happy there walked through the
forest, they might even hardly breathe, the threatened not to betray
the proximity of the enemy.

Jack Owen, however, was at that moment only one and only one hunter
to his protegee little thinking that he also surely knew the animals,
he slipped, now the root of a Oak or use sassafras tree, now as a
bush or fallen tree trunk Using protection, but also not quite right
on the game, but something seitab gradually, so that by some imprudent
perhaps made noise attention the shy game not on the way in holding
horse would steered, quickly and quietly on the ground out from in
maybe a hundred yards of his prey.

Since buckled hidden under the foliage dry branch located, and whether the Moccasin contracted to him,
and hunters such as dogs together fell instinctively where they stood,
was the faint sound but penetrated over to the deer, who had himself
just stopped grazing and over listened after the cry of the falcon.

The animals of the wilderness have a language among themselves that
the Man does not understand - to warn a voice and shout to attract
and to drive away, and be sure if even an enemy sex were the warning.

Once attention has become, Jack Owen also knew very well that the timid animal would not calm down,
to allow further movement, so that is rapidly raising the rifle, he stressed in the movement,
the eye was looking the fatal spot, the finger twitched sharply blared the blow through the forest,
and how the deer rose and collapsed, and again into soared and wild movements in the thicket,
went to males who do not longer could hold on from the place where
she crouched, and was followed by howling and kleffend the volatile
plunder.

Jack Owen, however, perfectly calm but wiped his gun with the, the ramrod bolted from dross,
loaded them again, and then throwing them on the shoulder, He returned to his patient, holding
horse to lift his cap, and the animal cause with them to the place where they would find the
deer died.

"He ran away," said Amalie of Seebald, came up as the shooter, and his horse, he - Without leaving
his place, happily entgegenwieherte - semi-satisfied, in semi-disappointed expectations.

"Yes Miss," laughed the hunter, "but not much, and I'm ready to get on well and the ball sits,
perhaps just a little deep, right on the spot, the dogs have it already. "

"The dogs? where? - They still bark. "

"Yes," laughed at the hillbilly, "but not against the deer, but against Deike, the Taken possession
of him, and none of the other hinanläßt more, the old fellow knows what's right, you go there
with me, we even go to not even cut, but over there by now completely
dry Gründorn level rather a few hundred Steps from up to Olnitzkis
Fenz that it pushes on the other hand, I just want the deer and hang
in the slew to cover it, the flies do not like to leave, whereupon
I get it off.

"

While uttering a low whistle, which the pony knew well enough, he turned from this is now closely
followed, again on the shoulder around, and avoiding the densest
areas, He led the stranger into the midst quite unconcerned in the
heart of the forest.

Closer and closer But here came the barking of dogs and when she finally reached this, it was like
Jack Owen predicted. Deike had taken its place alongside the already tight dead deer and be conscious
of his authority, while huddled quietly to await the arrival of his master, while the other
males kleffend him and growling, but always at a respectful distance,
jumped round, and the time seemed not expect to be able to find them
award a portion of venison given was.

This happened soon, Jack was thrown around in an instant the deer, and broken zerwirkt, and then
the anterior part, the two sheets with neck and head was where the antlers still separating
from the rest of the body, and in some powerful pieces of different
males to throw, He pulled off a piece of bark from a standing Papaobaum
close by, and the Hessians of Hind legs dragged the killed, then the
venison to less than ten steps away Water, which the animal was taken
mortally hastened, and it was hanging inside, washed his then even
in the hands of the tide, threw the gun back over his shoulder and
walked, the Poney a new sign of print quickly right through the forest
out a specific direction.

This brought the hikers but after almost
quarter of an hour vigorous walk to the corner of a eingefenzten,
with corn planted, but otherwise still pretty wild-looking field in
which most trees only curled and dead or broken in the middle into
the field, were and were, and around the back is a narrow dirt road.

"Since
we are on target," said the hunter, as he stretched his arm against
the maize field and at the same time rounded the corner of it, from
which they have a freer view of the small settlement itself could
obtain, "this here is Olnitzkis field, and he has over there in the
other side Last year, three other arable land brought under cultivation.
"

"And how far we still have to the house?" Asked Amelia began in
the heart of almost feverish to knock excitement by almost involuntarily
stopped the reins of the pony, for the first to collect. But the excited girl had neither consideration nor fear for herself;
she thought only of her father: and, even while the fierceness of contest was at its height
within, she suddenly burst into the council-room. The confusion and horror of the scene that
met her eyes no language can render: blood was flowing in every direction, and dying and dead
officers, already stripped of their scalps, were lying strewed about the room. Still the survivors
fought with all the obstinacy of despair, and many of the Indians had shared the fate of their
victims. Miss de Haldimar attempted to reach her father, then vigorously combating with one
of the most desperate of the chiefs; but, before she could dart through the intervening crowd,
a savage seized her by the hair, and brandished a tomahawk rapidly over her neck. At that moment
Captain Baynton sent his glittering blade deep into the heart of the Indian, who, relinquishing
his grasp, fell dead at the feet of his intended victim. The devoted officer then threw his
left arm round her waist, and, parrying with his sword-arm the blows of those who sought to
intercept his flight, dragged his reluctant burden towards the door. Hotly pressed by the remaining
officers, nearly equal in number, the Indians were now compelled to turn and defend themselves
in front, when Captain Baynton took that opportunity of getting once more into the corridor,
not, however, without having received a severe wound immediately behind the right ear, and
leaving a skirt and lappel of his uniform in the hands of two savages who had successively
essayed to detain him. At that moment the band without had succeeded in forcing open the door
of the guard-room; and the officer saw, at a glance, there was little time left for decision.
In hurried and imploring accents he besought Miss de Haldimar to forget every thing but her
own danger, and to summon resolution to tear herself from the scene: but prayer and entreaty,
and even force, were alike employed in vain. Clinging firmly to the rude balustrades, she refused
to be led up the staircase, and wildly resisting all his efforts to detach her hands, declared
she would again return to the scene of death, in which her beloved parent was so conspicuous
an actor. While he was yet engaged in this fruitless attempt to force her from the spot, the
door of the council-room was suddenly burst open, and a group of bleeding officers, among whom
was Major de Haldimar, followed by their yelling enemies, rushed wildly into the passage, and,
at the very foot of the stairs where they yet stood, the combat was renewed. From that moment
Miss de Haldimar lost sight of her generous protector. Meanwhile the tumult of execrations,
and groans, and yells, was at its height; and one by one she saw the unhappy officers sink
beneath weapons yet reeking with the blood of their comrades, until not more than three or
four, including her father and the commander of the schooner, were left. At length Major de
Haldimar, overcome by exertion, and faint from wounds, while his wild eye darted despairingly
on his daughter, had his sword-arm desperately wounded, when the blade dropped to the earth,
and a dozen weapons glittered above his head. The wild shriek that had startled Clara then
burst from the agonised heart of her maddened cousin, and she darted forward to cover her father's
head with her arms. But her senses failed her in the attempt; and the last thing she recollected
was falling over the weltering form of Middleton, who pressed her, as she lay there, in the
convulsive energy of death, to his almost pulseless heart.

A vague consciousness of being raised from the earth, and borne rapidly through the air, came
over her even in the midst of her insensibility, but without any definite perception of the
present, or recollection of the past, until she suddenly, when about midway between the fort
and the point of wood that led to Chabouiga, opened her eyes, and found herself in the firm
grasp of an Indian, whose features, even in the hasty and fearful glance she cast at the countenance,
she fancied were not unfamiliar to her. Not another human being was to be seen in the clearing
at that moment; for all the savages, including even the women assembled outside, were now within
the fort assisting in the complex horrors of murder, fire, and spoliation. In the wild energy
of returning reason and despair, the wretched girl struggled violently to free herself; and
so far with success, that the Indian, whose strength was evidently fast failing him, was compelled
to quit his hold, and suffer her to walk. No sooner did Miss de Haldimar feel her feet touching
the ground, when she again renewed her exertions to free herself, and return to the fort; but
the Indian held her firmly secured by a leathern thong he now attached to her waist, and every
attempt proved abortive. He was evidently much disconcerted at her resistance; and more than
once she expected, and almost hoped, the tomahawk at his side would be made to revenge him
for the test to which his patience was subjected; but Miss de Haldimar looked in vain for the
expression of ferocity and impatience that might have been expected from him at such a moment.
There was an air of mournfulness, and even kindness, mingled with severity, on his smooth brow
that harmonised ill with the horrible atrocities in which he had, to all appearance, covered
as he was with blood, been so recent and prominent an actor. The Indian remarked her surprise;
and then looking hurriedly, yet keenly, around, and finding no living being near them, suddenly
tore the shirt from his chest, and emphatically pronouncing the names "Oucanasta," "De Haldimar,"
disclosed to the still struggling captive the bosom of a woman. After which, pointing in the
direction of the wood, and finally towards Detroit, she gave Miss de Haldimar to understand
that was the course intended to be pursued.

In a moment the resistance of the latter ceased. She at once recognised the young Indian woman
whom her cousin had rescued from death: and aware, as she was, of the strong attachment that
had subsequently bound her to her preserver, she was at no loss to understand how she might
have been led to devote herself to the rescue of one whom, it was probable, she knew to be
his affianced wife. Once, indeed, a suspicion of a different nature crossed her mind; for the
thought occurred to her she had only been saved from the general doom to be made the victim
of private revenge--that it was only to glut the jealous vengeance of the woman at a more deliberative
hour, she had been made a temporary captive. The apprehension, however, was no sooner formed
than extinguished. Bitterly, deeply as she had reason to abhor the treachery and cunning of
the dark race to which her captor belonged, there was an expression of openness and sincerity,
and even imploringness, in the countenance of Oucanasta, which, added to her former knowledge
of the woman, at once set this fear at rest, inducing her to look upon her rather in the character
of a disinterested saviour, than in that of a cruel and vindictive enemy, goaded on to the
indulgence of malignant hate by a spirit of rivalry and revenge. Besides, even were her cruellest
fears to be realised, what could await her worse than the past? If she could even succeed in
getting away, it would only be to return upon certain death; and death only could await her,
however refined the tortures accompanying its infliction, in the event of her quietly following
and yielding herself up to the guidance of one who offered this slight consolation, at least,
that she was of her own sex. But Miss de Haldimar was willing to attribute more generous motives
to the Indian; and fortified in her first impression, she signified by signs, that seemed to
be perfectly intelligible to her companion, she appreciated her friendly intentions, and confided
wholly in her.

No longer checked in her efforts, Oucanasta now directed her course towards the wood, still
holding the thong that remained attached to Miss de Haldimar's waist, probably with a view
to deceive any individuals from the villages on whom they might chance to fall, into a belief
that the English girl was in reality her prisoner. No sooner, however, had they entered the
depths of the forest, when, instead of following the path that led to Chabouiga, Oucanasta
took a direction to the left, and then moving nearly on a parallel line with the course of
the lake, continued her flight as rapidly as the rude nature of the underwood, and the unpractised
feet of her companion, would permit. They had travelled in this manner for upwards of four
hours, without meeting a breathing thing, or even so much as exchanging a sound between themselves,
when, at length, the Indian stopped at the edge of a deep cavern-like excavation in the earth,
produced by the tearing up, by the wild tempest, of an enormous pine. Into this she descended,
and presently reappeared with several blankets, and two light painted paddles. Then unloosing
the thong from the waist of the exhausted girl, she proceeded to disguise her in one of the
blankets in the manner already shown, securing it over the head, throat, and shoulders with
the badge of captivity, now no longer necessary for her purpose. She then struck off at right
angles from the course they had previously pursued; and in less than twenty minutes both stood
on the lake shore, apparently at a great distance from the point whence they had originally
set out. The Indian gazed for a moment anxiously before her; and then, with an exclamation,
evidently meant to convey a sense of pleasure and satisfaction, pointed forward upon the lake.
Miss de Haldimar followed, with eager and aching eyes, the direction of her finger, and beheld
the well-known schooner evidently urging her flight towards the entrance of the Sinclair. Oh,
how her sick heart seemed ready to burst at that moment! When she had last gazed upon it was
from the window of her favourite apartment; and even while she held her beloved Clara clasped
fondly in her almost maternal embrace, she had dared to indulge the fairest images that ever
sprung into being at the creative call of woman's fancy. How bitter had been the reverse! and
what incidents to fill up the sad volume of the longest life of sorrow and bereavement had
not Heaven awarded her in lieu! In one short hour the weight of a thousand worlds had fallen
on and crushed her heart; and when and how was the panacea to be obtained to restore one moment's
cessation from suffering to her agonised spirit? Alas! she felt at that moment, that, although
she should live a thousand years, the bitterness and desolation of her grief must remain. From
the vessel she turned her eyes away upon the distant shore, which it was fast quitting, and
beheld a column of mingled flame and smoke towering far above the horizon, and attesting the
universal wreck of what had so long been endeared to her as her home. And she had witnessed
all this, and yet had strength to survive it!

The courage of the unhappy girl had hitherto been sustained by no effort of volition of her
own. From the moment when, discovering a friend in Oucanasta, she had yielded herself unresistingly
to the guidance of that generous creature, her feelings had been characterised by an obtuseness
strongly in contrast with the high excitement that had distinguished her previous manner. A
dreamy recollection of some past horror, it is true, pursued her during her rapid and speechless
flight; but any analysis of the causes conducing to that horror, her subjugated faculties were
unable to enter upon. Even as one who, under the influence of incipient slumber, rejects the
fantastic images that rise successively and indistinctly to the slothful brain, until, at length,
they weaken, fade, and gradually die away, leaving nothing but a formless and confused picture
of the whole; so was it with Miss de Haldimar. Had she been throughout alive to the keen recollections
associated with her flight, she could not have stirred a foot in furtherance of her own safety,
even if she would. The mere instinct of self-preservation would never have won one so truly
devoted to the generous purpose of her deliverer, had not the temporary stupefaction of her
mind prevented all desire of opposition. It is true, in the moment of her discovery of the
sex of Oucanasta, she had been able to exercise her reflecting powers; but they were only in
connection with the present, and wholly abstract and separate from the past. She had followed
her conductor almost without consciousness, and with such deep absorption of spirit, that she
neither once conjectured whither they were going, nor what was to be the final issue of their
flight. But now, when she stood on the lake shore, suddenly awakened, as if by some startling
spell, to every harrowing recollection, and with her attention assisted by objects long endeared,
and rendered familiar to her gaze--when she beheld the vessel that had last borne her across
the still bosom of the Huron, fleeing for ever from the fortress where her arrival had been
so joyously hailed--when she saw that fortress itself presenting the hideous spectacle of a
blackened mass of ruins fast crumbling into nothingness--when, in short, she saw nothing but
what reminded her of the terrific past, the madness of reason returned, and the desolation
of her heart was complete. And then, again, when she thought of her generous, her brave, her
beloved, and too unfortunate father, whom she had seen perish at her feet--when she thought
of her own gentle Clara, and the sufferings and brutalities to which, if she yet lived, she
must inevitably be exposed, and of the dreadful fate of the garrison altogether, the most menial
of whom was familiar to her memory, brought up, as she had been, among them from her childhood--when
she dwelt on all these things, a faintness, as of death, came over her, and she sank without
life on the beach. Of what passed afterwards she had no recollection. She neither knew how
she had got into the canoe, nor what means the Indian had taken to secure her approach to the
schooner. She had no consciousness of having been removed to the bark of the Canadian, nor
did she even remember having risen and gazed through the foliage on the vessel at her side;
but she presumed, the chill air of morning having partially restored pulsation, she had moved
instinctively from her recumbent position to the spot in which her spectre-like countenance
had been perceived by Fuller. The first moment of her returning reason was that when, standing
on the deck of the schooner, she found herself so unexpectedly clasped to the heart of her lover.

Twilight had entirely passed away when Miss de Haldimar completed her sad narrative; and already
the crew, roused to exertion by the swelling breeze, were once more engaged in weighing the
anchor, and setting and trimming the sails of the schooner, which latter soon began to shoot
round the concealing headland into the opening of the Sinclair. A deathlike silence prevailed
throughout the decks of the little bark, as her bows, dividing the waters of the basin that
formed its source, gradually immerged into the current of that deep but narrow river; so narrow,
indeed, that from its centre the least active of the mariners might have leaped without difficulty
to either shore. This was the most critical part of the dangerous navigation. With a wide sea-board,
and full command of their helm, they had nothing to fear; but so limited was the passage of
this river, it was with difficulty the yards and masts of the schooner could be kept disengaged
from the projecting boughs of the dense forest that lined the adjacent shores to their very
junction with the water. The darkness of the night, moreover, while it promised to shield them
from the observation of the savages, contributed greatly to perplex their movements; for such
was the abruptness with which the river wound itself round in various directions, that it required
a man constantly on the alert at the bows to apprise the helmsman of the course he should steer,
to avoid collision with the shores. Canopies of weaving branches met in various directions
far above their heads, and through these the schooner glided with a silence that might have
called up the idea of a Stygian freight. Meanwhile, the men stood anxiously to their guns,
concealing the matches in their water-buckets as before; and, while they strained both ear
and eye through the surrounding; gloom to discover the slightest evidence of danger, grasped
the handles of their cutlasses with a firm hand, ready to unsheathe them at the first intimation
of alarm.

At the suggestion of the boatswain, who hinted at the necessity of having cleared decks, Captain
de Haldimar had prevailed on his unfortunate relatives to retire to the small cabin arranged
for their reception; and here they were attended by an aged female, who had long followed the
fortunes of the crew, and acted in the twofold character of laundress and sempstress. He himself,
with Sir Everard, continued on deck watching the progress of the vessel with an anxiety that
became more intense at each succeeding hour. Hitherto their course had been unimpeded, save
by the obstacles already enumerated; and they had now, at about an hour before dawn, gained
a point that promised a speedy termination to their dangers and perplexities. Before them lay
a reach in the river, enveloped in more than ordinary gloom, produced by the continuous weaving
of the tops of the overhanging trees; and in the perspective, a gleam of relieving light, denoting
the near vicinity of the lake that lay at the opposite extremity of the Sinclair, whose name
it also bore. This was the narrowest part of the river; and so approximate were its shores,
that the vessel in her course could not fail to come in contact both with the obtruding foliage
of the forest and the dense bullrushes skirting the edge of either bank.

"If we get safe through this here place," said the boatswain, in a rough whisper to his anxious
and attentive auditors, "I think as how I'll venture to answer for the craft. I can see daylight
dancing upon the lake already. Ten minutes more and she will be there." Then turning to the
man at the helm,--"Keep her in the centre of the stream, Jim. Don't you see you're hugging
the weather shore?"

"It would take the devil himself to tell which is the centre," growled the sailor, in the same
suppressed tone. "One might steer with one's eyes shut in such a queer place as this and never
be no worser off than with them open."

"Steady her helm, steady," rejoined Mullins, "it's as dark as pitch, to be sure, but the passage
is straight as an arrow, and with a steady helm you can't miss it. Make for the light ahead."

"Abaft there!" hurriedly and loudly shouted the man on the look-out at the bows, "there's a
tree lying across the river, and we're just upon it."

While he yet spoke, and before the boatswain could give such instructions as the emergency
required, the vessel suddenly struck against the obstacle in question; but the concussion was
not of the violent nature that might have been anticipated. The course of the schooner, at
no one period particularly rapid, had been considerably checked since her entrance into the
gloomy arch, in the centre of which her present accident had occurred; so that it was without
immediate injury to her hull and spars she had been thus suddenly brought to. But this was
not the most alarming part of the affair. Captain de Haldimar and Sir Everard both recollected,
that, in making the same passage, not forty-eight hours previously, they had encountered no
obstacle of the kind, and a misgiving of danger rose simultaneously to the hearts of each.
It was, however, a thing of too common occurrence in these countries, where storm and tempest
were so prevalent and partial, to create more than a mere temporary alarm; for it was quite
as probable the barrier had been interposed by some fitful outburst of Nature, as that it arose
from design on the part of their enemies: and when the vessel had continued stationary for
some minutes, without the prepared and expectant crew discovering the slightest indication
of attack, the former impression was preserved by the officers--at least avowedly to those around.

"Bear a hand, my lads, and cut away," at length ordered the boatswain, in a low but clear tone;
"half a dozen at each end of the stick, and we shall soon clear a passage for the craft."

A dozen sailors grasped their axes, and hastened forward to execute the command. They sprang
lightly from the entangled bows of the schooner, and diverging in equal numbers moved to either
extremity of the fallen tree.

"This is sailing through the heart of the American forest with a vengeance," muttered Mullins,
whose annoyance at their detention was strongly manifested as he paced up and down the deck.
"Shiver my topsails, if it isn't bad enough to clear the Sinclair at any time, much more so
when one's running for one's life, and not a whisper's length from one's enemies. Do you know,
Captain," abruptly checking his movement, and familiarly placing his hand on the shoulder of
De Haldimar, "the last time we sailed through this very reach I couldn't help telling poor
Captain Danvers, God rest his soul, what a nice spot it was for an Ingian ambuscade, if they
had only gumption enough to think of it."

"Hark!" said the officer, whose heart, eye, and ear were painfully on the alert, "what rustling
is that we hear overhead?"

"It's Jack Fuller, no doubt, your honour; I sent him up to clear away the branches from the
main topmast rigging." Then raising his head, and elevating his voice, "Hilloa! aloft there!"

The only answer was a groan, followed by a deeper commotion among the rustling foliage.

"Why, what the devil's the matter with you now, Jack?" pursued the boatswain, in a voice of
angry vehemence. "Are ye scared at another ghost, and be damned to you, that ye keep groaning
there after that fashion?"

At that moment a heavy dull mass was heard tumbling through the upper rigging of the schooner
towards the deck, and presently a human form fell at the very feet of the small group, composed
of the two officers and the individual who had last spoken.

"A light, a light!" shouted the boatswain; "the foolish chap has lost his hold through fear,
and ten to one if he hasn't cracked his skull-piece for his pains. Quick there with a light,
and let's see what we can do for him."

The attention of all had been arrested by the sound of the falling weight, and as one of the
sailors now advanced, bearing a dark lantern from below, the whole of the crew, with the exception
of those employed on the fallen tree, gathered themselves in a knot round the motionless form
of the prostrate man. But no sooner had their eyes encountered the object of their interest,
when each individual started suddenly and involuntarily back, baring his cutlass, and drawing
forth his pistol, the whole presenting a group of countenances strongly marked by various shades
of consternation and alarm, even while their attitudes were those of men prepared for some
fierce and desperate danger. It was indeed Fuller whom they had beheld, but not labouring,
as the boatswain had imagined, under the mere influence of superstitious fear. He was dead,
and the blood flowing from a deep wound, inflicted by a sharp instrument in his chest, and
the scalped head, too plainly told the manner of his death, and the danger that awaited them all.

A pause ensued, but it was short. Before any one could find words to remark on the horrible
circumstance, the appalling war-cry of the savages burst loudly from every quarter upon the
ears of the devoted crew. In the desperation of the moment, several of the men clutched their
cutlasses between their teeth, and seizing the concealed matches, rushed to their respective
stations at the guns. It was in vain the boatswain called out to them, in a voice of stern
authority, to desist, intimating that their only protection lay in the reservation of the fire
of their batteries. Goaded and excited, beyond the power of resistance, to an impulse that
set all subordination at defiance, they applied the matches, and almost at the same instant
the terrific discharge of both broadsides took place, rocking the vessel to the water's edge,
and reverberating, throughout, the confined space in which she lay, like the deadly explosion
of some deeply excavated mine.

Scarcely had the guns been fired, when the seamen became sensible of their imprudence. The
echoes were yet struggling to force a passage through the dense forest, when a second yell
of the Indians announced the fiercest joy and triumph, unmixed by disaster, at the result;
and then the quick leaping of many forms could be heard, as they divided the crashing underwood,
and rushed forward to close with their prey. It was evident, from the difference of sound,
their first cry had been pealed forth while lying prostrate on the ground, and secure from
the bullets, whose harmless discharge that cry was intended to provoke; for now the voices
seemed to rise progressively from the earth, until they reached the level of each individual
height, and were already almost hotly breathing in the ears of those they were destined to
fill with illimitable dismay.

"Shiver my topsails, but this comes of disobeying orders," roared the boatswain, in a voice
of mingled anger and vexation. "The Ingians are quite as cunning as ourselves, and arn't to
be frighted that way. Quick, every cutlass and pistol to his gangway, and let's do our best.
Pass the word forward for the axemen to return to quarters."

Recovered from their first paroxysm of alarm, the men at length became sensible of the presence
of a directing power, which, humble as it was, their long habits of discipline had taught them
to respect, and, headed on the one side by Captain de Haldimar, and on the other by Sir Everard
Valletort, neither of whom, however, entertained the most remote chance of success, flew, as
commanded, to their respective gangways. The yell of the Indians had again ceased, and all
was hushed into stillness; but as the anxious and quicksighted officers gazed over the bulwarks,
they fancied they could perceive, even through the deep gloom that every where prevailed, the
forms of men,--resting in cautious and eager attitudes, on the very verge of the banks, and
at a distance of little more than half pistol shot. Every heart beat with expectancy,--every
eye was riveted intently in front, to watch and meet the first movements of their foes, but
not a sound of approach was audible to the equally attentive ear. In this state of aching suspense
they might have continued about five minutes, when suddenly their hearts were made to quail
by a third cry, that came, not as previously, from the banks of the river, but from the very
centre of their own decks, and from the top-mast and riggings of the schooner. So sudden and
unexpected too was this fresh danger, that before the two parties had time to turn, and assume
a new posture of defence, several of them had already fallen under the butchering blades of
their enemies. Then commenced a desperate but short conflict, mingled with yellings, that again
were answered from every point; and rapidly gliding down the pendant ropes, were to be seen
the active and dusky forms of men, swelling the number of the assailants, who had gained the
deck in the same noiseless manner, until resistance became almost hopeless.

"Ha! I hear the footsteps of our lads at last," exclaimed Mullins exultingly to his comrades,
as he finished despatching a third savage with his sturdy weapon. "Quick, men, quick, up with
hatchet and cutlass, and take them in the rear. If we are to die, let's die--" game, he would
perhaps have added, but death arrested the word upon his lips; and his corpse rolled along
the deck, until its further progress was stopped by the stiffened body of the unhappy Fuller.

Notwithstanding the fall of their brave leader, and the whoopings of their enemies, the flagging
spirits of the men were for a moment excited by the announcement of the return even of the
small force of the axemen, and they defended themselves with a courage and determination worthy
of a better result; but when, by the lurid light of the torches, now lying burning about the
decks, they turned and beheld not their companions, but a fresh band of Indians, at whose pouch-belts
dangled the reeking scalps of their murdered friends, they at once relinquished the combat
as hopeless, and gave themselves unresistingly up to be bound by their captors.

Meanwhile the cousins experienced a renewal of all those horrors from which their distracted
minds had been temporarily relieved; and, petrified with alarm, as they lay in the solitary
berth that contained them both, endured sufferings infinitely more terrible than death itself.
The early part of the tumult they had noticed almost without comprehending its cause, and but
for the terrific cry of the Indians that had preceded them, would have mistaken the deafening
broadsides for the blowing up of the vessel, so tremendous and violent bad been the concussion.
Nay, there was a moment when Miss de Haldimar felt a pang of deep disappointment and regret
at the misconception; for, with the fearful recollection of past events, so strongly impressed
on her bleeding heart, she could not but acknowledge, that to be engulfed in one general and
disastrous explosion, was mercy compared with the alternative of falling into the hands of
those to whom her loathing spirit bad been too fatally taught to deny even the commonest attributes
of humanity. As for Clara, she had not the power to think, or to form a conjecture on the subject:--she
was merely sensible of a repetition of the horrible scenes from which she had so recently been
snatched, and with a pale cheek, a fixed eye, and an almost pulseless heart, lay without motion
in the inner side of the berth. The piteous spectacle of her cousin's alarm lent a forced activity
to the despair of Miss de Haldimar, in whom apprehension produced that strong energy of excitement
that sometimes gives to helplessness the character of true courage. With the increasing clamour
of appalling conflict on deck, this excitement grew at every moment stronger, until it finally
became irrepressible, so that at length, when through the cabin windows there suddenly streamed
a flood of yellow light, extinguishing that of the lamp that threw its flickering beams around
the cabin, she flung herself impetuously from the berth, and, despite of the aged and trembling
female who attempted to detain her, burst open the narrow entrance to the cabin, and rushed
up the steps communicating with the deck.

The picture that here met her eyes was at once graphic and fearful in the extreme. On either
side of the river lines of streaming torches were waved by dusky warriors high above their
heads, reflecting the grim countenances, not only of those who bore them, but of dense groups
in their rear, whose numbers were alone concealed by the foliage of the forest in which they
stood. From the branches that wove themselves across the centre of the river, and the topmast
and rigging of the vessel, the same strong yellow light, produced by the bark of the birch
tree steeped in gum, streamed down upon the decks below, rendering each line and block of the
schooner as distinctly visible as if it had been noon on the sunniest of those far distant
lakes. The deck itself was covered with the bodies of slain men--sailors, and savages mixed
together; and amid these were to be seen fierce warriors, reclining triumphantly and indolently
on their rifles, while others were occupied in securing the arms of their captives with leathern
thongs behind their backs. The silence that now prevailed was strongly in contrast with, and
even more fearful than, the horrid shouts by which it had been preceded; and, but for the ghastly
countenances of the captives, and the quick rolling eyes of the savages, Miss de Haldimar might
have imagined herself the sport of some extraordinary and exciting illusion. Her glance over
these prominent features in the tragedy had been cursory, yet accurate. It now rested on one
that had more immediate and terrifying interest for herself. At a few paces in front of the
companion ladder, and with their backs turned towards her, stood two individuals, whose attitudes
denoted the purpose of men resolved to sell with their lives alone a passage to a tall fierce-looking
savage, whose countenance betrayed every mark of triumphant and deadly passion, while he apparently
hesitated whether his uplifted arm should stay the weapon it wielded. These individuals were
Captain de Haldimar and Sir Everard Valletort; and to the former of these the attention of
the savage was more immediately and exultingly directed; so much so, indeed, that Miss de Haldimar
thought she could read in the ferocious expression of his features the death-warrant of her
cousin. In the wild terror of the moment she gave a piercing scream that was answered by a
hundred yelling voices, and rushing between her lover and his enemy, threw herself wildly and
supplicatingly at the feet of the latter. Uttering a savage laugh, the monster spurned her
from him with his foot, when, quick as thought, a pistol was discharged within a few inches
of his face; but with a rapidity equal to that of his assailant, he bent aside his head, and
the ball passed harmlessly on. The yell that followed was terrific; and while it was yet swelling
into fulness, Captain de Haldimar felt an iron hand furiously grappling his throat, and, ere
the grasp was relinquished, he again stood the bound and passive victim of the warrior of the
Fleur de lis.

CHAPTER III.

The interval that succeeded to the last council-scene of the Indians was passed by the officers
of Detroit in a state of inexpressible anxiety and doubt. The fears entertained for the fate
of their companions, who had set out in the perilous and almost forlorn hope of reaching Michilimackinac,
in time to prevent the consummation of the threatened treachery, had, in some degree, if not
wholly, been allayed by the story narrated by the Ottawa chief. It was evident, from his statement,
the party had again met, and been engaged in fearful struggle with the gigantic warrior they
had all so much reason to recollect; and it was equally apparent, that in that struggle they
had been successful. But still, so many obstacles were likely to be opposed to their navigation
of the several lakes and rivers over which lay their course, it was almost feared, even if
they eventually escaped unharmed themselves, they could not possibly reach the fort in time
to communicate the danger that awaited their friends. It is true, the time gained by Governor
de Haldimar on the first occasion had afforded a considerable interval, of which advantage
might be taken; but it was also, on the other hand, uncertain whether Ponteac had commanded
the same delay in the council of the chiefs investing Michilimackinac, to which he had himself
assented. Three days were sufficient to enable an Indian warrior to perform the journey by
land; and it was chiefly on this vague and uncertain ground they based whatever little of hope
was entertained on the subject.

It had been settled at the departure of the adventurers, that the instant they effected a communication
with the schooner on Lake Huron, Francois should be immediately sent back, with instructions
so to contrive the period of his return, that his canoe should make its appearance soon after
daybreak at the nearest extremity of Hog Island, the position of which has been described in
our introductory chapter. From this point a certain signal, that could be easily distinguished
with the aid of a telescope, was to be made from the canoe, which, without being of a nature
to attract the attention of the savages, was yet to be such as could not well be mistaken by
the garrison. This was a precaution adopted, not only with the view of giving the earliest
intimation of the result of the enterprise, but lest the Canadian should be prevented, by any
closer investment on the part of the Indians, from communicating personally with the fort in
the way he had been accustomed.

It will easily be comprehended therefore, that, as the period approached when they might reasonably
look for the return of Francois, if he should return at all, the nervous anxiety of the officers
became more and more developed. Upwards of a week had elapsed since the departure of their
friends; and already, for the last day or two, their impatience had led them, at early dawn,
and with beating hearts, to that quarter of the rampart which overlooked the eastern extremity
of Hog Island. Hitherto, however, their eager watching had been in vain. As far as our recollection
of the Canadian tradition of this story serves us, it must have been on the fourth night after
the final discomfiture of the plans of Ponteac, and the tenth from the departure of the adventurers,
that the officers were assembled in the mess-room, partaking of the scanty and frugal supper
to which their long confinement had reduced them. The subject of their conversation, as it
was ever of their thoughts, was the probable fate of their companions; and many and various,
although all equally melancholy, were the conjectures offered as to the result. There was on
the countenance of each, that deep and fixed expression of gloom, which, if it did not indicate
any unmanliness of despair, told at least that hope was nearly extinct: but more especially
was this remarkable in the young but sadly altered Charles de Haldimar, who, with a vacant
eye and a pre-occupied manner, seemed wholly abstracted from the scene before him.

All was silence in the body of the fort. The men off duty had long since retired to rest in
their clothes, and only the "All's well!" of the sentinels was heard at intervals of a quarter
of an hour, as the cry echoed from mouth to mouth in the line of circuit. Suddenly, however,
between two of those intervals, and during a pause in the languid conversation of the officers,
the sharp challenge of a sentinel was heard, and then quick steps on the rampart, as of men
hastening to the point whence the challenge had been given. The officers, whom this new excitement
seemed to arouse into fresh activity, hurriedly quitted the room; and, with as little noise
as possible, gained the spot where the voice had been heard. Several men were bending eagerly
over the rampart, and, with their muskets at the recover, riveting their gaze on a dark and
motionless object that lay on the verge of the ditch immediately beneath them.

"What have you here, Mitchell?" asked Captain Blessington, who was in command of the guard,
and who had recognised the gruff voice of the veteran in the challenge just given.

"An American burnt log, your honour," muttered the soldier, "if one was to judge from its stillness;
but if it is, it must have rolled there within the last minute; for I'll take my affidavy it
wasn't here when I passed last in my beat."

"An American burnt log, indeed! it's some damned rascal of a spy, rather," remarked Captain
Erskine. "Who knows but it may be our big friend, come to pay us a visit again? And yet he
is not half long enough for him, either. Can't you try and tickle him with the bayonet, any
of you fellows, and see whether he is made of flesh and blood?"

Although this observation was made almost without object, it being totally impossible for any
musket, even with the addition of its bayonet, to reach more than half way across the ditch,
the several sentinels threw themselves on their chests, and, stretching over the rampart as
far as possible, made the attempt to reach the suspicious looking object that lay beyond. No
sooner, however, had their arms been extended in such a manner as to be utterly powerless,
when the dark mass was seen to roll away in an opposite direction, and with such rapidity that,
before the men could regain their feet and level their muskets, it had entirely disappeared
from their view.

"Cleverly managed, to give the red skin his due," half laughingly observed Captain Erskine,
while his brother officers continued to fix their eyes in astonishment on the spot so recently
occupied by the strange object; "but what the devil could be his motive for lying there so
long? Not playing the eaves-dropper, surely; and yet, if he meant to have picked off a sentinel,
what was to have prevented him from doing it sooner?"

"He had evidently no arms," said Ensign Delme.

"No, nor legs either, it would appear," resumed the literal Erskine. "Curse me if I ever saw
any thing in the shape of a human form bundled together in that manner."

"I mean he had no fire-arms--no rifle," pursued Delme.

"And if he had, he certainly would have rifled one of us of a life," continued the captain,
laughing at his own conceit. "But come, the bird is flown, and we have only to thank ourselves
for having been so egregiously duped. Had Valletort been here, he would have given a different
account of him."

"Hist! listen!" exclaimed Lieutenant Johnstone, calling the attention of the party to a peculiar
and low sound in the direction in which the supposed Indian had departed.

It was repeated, and in a plaintive tone, indicating a desire to propitiate. Soon afterwards
a human form was seen advancing slowly, but without show either of concealment or hostility
in its movements. It finally remained stationary on the spot where the dark and shapeless mass
had been first perceived.

"Another Oucanasta for De Haldimar, no doubt," observed Captain Erskine, after a moment's pause.
"These grenadiers carry every thing before them as well in love as in war."

The error of the good-natured officer was, however, obvious to all but himself. 

Hopfgarten intended when he left Cincinnati to spend a few days at Lobel, before he would continue
his journey, he had grown fond of the family, and took part really Wohler her go. But when he
was here now, the states, with little space for themselves to sleep the night, he thought
it better to have the next day to break up again and his visit would rather the next time they
would be completely set up, longer extend.

Simultaneously, he could also one uneasy feeling, which he still does not to give proper expression
did help but not, all the way in which the professor's settlement was addressed, did not seem the
right one, the many German workers, who so little of the local way of building and field knew
to be appointed, and cost a shameful way liges money had and the many plans that the scholar must
be well, but maybe not so practical Mann had at one time, the Spatzierengehn the son himself,
a trifle in itself, but still important here, where there was to do in the house just yet all
- he struggled against the feeling as much as he could, but he was always as if there is not
all so wrong was like in the German Peasant tube Berger, whom he met at Cincinnati, and could
only hope now that he was wrong, and Professor Lobel understand things much better as it to him
if he wanted to be quite honest, believe.

Only Marie was cheerful as always, laughed at the mass of small inconveniences they had to endure,
and was happy like a child to the next time when their poultry farm and grow their garden
would only be in order. Until then, they had indeed still a little to do, but the next summer
was that, after my father's insurance, also ended all . See If just once stood the house, because
that was the main thing for now, and in the That is also the point around which any further
hope for convenience and comfort had to turn.

Marie had the way, despite all the Wirwarrr in which they encountered Hopfgarten, but found time
to write the promised letter to Clara Henkel. A more detailed address she did indeed it does
not specify when the St. Charles Hotel, which handles the professor as his own Domicil had
described next, until he would have an apartment set in state; but that was enough, and he was
taken off from there really, already, so he could further asked be. In general yes, also the company
itself had to be found easily.

By the way Hopfgarten wanted to travel to St. Louis does not like how he came to water continue,
and it was to little too monotonous, and he also got in the way the country not visible at
all really, but how to start it that way? Riding said its constitution especially not to, he had
at the one day in Cincinnati has such a lesson brought in the saddle that he not three days later
was able to walk properly and was therefore unable to endure a long tour - on foot would be much
less have been possible and railways existed yet, what do now? - The professor told him there
that he, among other amenities, his place would have heard the boast, in barely five Miles from
the farm, after passing by St. Louis Post content to have all the same the small, lying in
the interior places touched, and really determined to Vincennes on the Wabash seemed, from where they
then ran on through Illinois, just west to St. Louis, and also well, if not mistaken, already
partly in connection with a train stood.

Here was a Aushülfe to ride on an American Post, besides, something new and interesting, and did
the same, perhaps even several times a week, you could also easily stop at one, worthy of
staying place a few days, because of small trips to the Neighborhood and make them go to the
next post on. The nearest post office was So Hollow Field, about five miles from Lobel Farm located,
and the coach himself, ran as speculation of a private entrepreneur from some small town on the
Ohio to Vincennes up, where she met with the United States mail, which went from Cincinnati to St. Louis,
and then drove back, while the latter has come along to carry passengers for further had. His
case was, however, as he also thought the stay, stand here until he himself arrived back in New
Orleans was the most necessary things he had been in a Travel bag packed, and the professor,
who under the current circumstances do not compel could no longer stay with him, promised him
the next morning two horses with a man to get that it could safely escort along with his travel
bag after Hollow Field.

As the morning went to Hopfgarten ingested coffee the farm, he saw the Germans outside the forest
concerned partly sawn logs with oxen procure, partly already hew to traditional. He stayed until
the horses were taken, stand by them and looked to them but all they laid hold of them walked
slowly from his hands, they worked as it seemed very accurate, but with no idea of ​​the value
of time here in America. There were Day laborers, the only decent way to just durchzuschleppen their
day from meal to meal had, and any efforts they were able to save her body was, of course, net
profits, that the professor while they paid their full wages, was a matter of itself

The weaver, a skilled carpenter on the ship, had the line of the whole to come and did his best,
however, the professor was right on with big pieces of it. The weavers were also in the beginning
of many workers was not right, the one so, after his statement, "the hairs from the head might
devour" - but since when would the house to be finished? -

As Hopfgarten finally in the saddle, and had resigned his officer the entrance to the Fenz that
the horsemen hinauskonnten, Lobel stood in the doorway of her house, and waved him one last
goodbye to. Marie was already at work and was hochaufgeschürzt, locked up with Bare arms, next to
the small corral where their cash cows were.

greet "And Clara me a thousand times," she called after him.

And she is very, very soon write, "Anna begged.

       

    "I will order all," Hopfgarten waved back, waved his hat again against
them, and then galloped to his animals spurs push to rapidly along
the narrow path, the gene led Hollow Field.

    
    
    * * * * *

    
    The letter of Mary, which he carried in his wallet for Clara with
    him was:
    

    "My dear, good Clara!"
    
    "If you reach this line, you were hopefully all recovered and are
    again the happy, cheerful being who you were when we boarded the ship
    together. "
    
    goes "We are here quite well, father has a farm in Indiana, only
    few miles from the beautiful Ohio River purchased and if we even
now have to make do for a while, it is later become more friendly.

    "
    
    "Americans had used the space occupied, but did you think not, Clara,
    as it had the tanned, with baskets and Shovels we have, across
    the dirt swept corners out of the house and put them in the field,
    and under the roof on Queer Bar, where individual planks were, we
    found the dust finger thickness and become quite hard already. But
    now a father can Another building, from the workers, we have adopted
    is A bricklayer, and we will make the whole thing properly. "
    
    "We already have two horses, four oxen, eight cows, three calves,
    eleven chickens and four turkeys, Anna, the Milk being handed down,
    has churned before, and in fourteen Days, we think our first butter
    to the city - of course a small wretched hive - for sale.
    We still have another city, Hollow Field - the first is called
    Grahamstown located on the Ohio - in there somewhere in the country
    in the area, but which is not be better than the first, and
    the way there is be very bad. We are now working very much, by five
    clock is risen, and there we have to do until it completely dark
    is it: the days we just pass away while still too fast. Anna is here
    and is recovering quite lively as it on the Ship was also Camilla
    is thick and bold, and must also gripping already, feed the chickens
in the kitchen aufwaschen help, and do all sorts of odd jobs.

    We have However, the Weber family, who happen on the same steamer
    us upstream, went into service, and to one year engaged, and
    actually we should get the woman's kitchen; but which has now
    done so much with the workers, and Scrubbing and washing, that it
has not come to that.

    If we only Once the need fewer workers will have better to be. "

"Edward
    feels very happy here and he is now a Entdeckungszug, as he calls
    it, in the interior, but if he he must also come back with
    hard gripping, for lazy people we can not do - this has to work
    all ".
    
    "The location of our farm is lovely, in a small valley, boilers,
    surrounded by high but not very densely wooded hills that are
    We like being immersed in the wilderness, and yet they are very close
    to civilized areas. A small mountain stream with clear water is
    scarcely twenty paces from the house.

    However, in the very overgrown garden are doing a lot of young peach
    trees and Quince and apple trees that bear good fruit again later
    to be in the woods grow a vast quantity of wild blackberries, and indeed
    many other fruit trees with wild grapevines, which I in you
    my next will describe in more detail, for now've I find myself still
    can not. "

    
    is "Our English is still very weak, and the neighbors, the one exception
    in the Grahamstown sold us the place and is a Pennsylvanian who
    speak no other way, such as English, and we speak broken this beautiful
    around with them, but as we have nothing but German workers, we can
    use the English now for a while without. "
    
    "Mother is unfortunately the last few days have been unwell and has
the must guard bed, the new alien life, it has also probably attacked
more than us that we are still young and we just do not worry.

    In the beginning, she has even more tearful eyes had - if they wanted
    to hide it well before us, we have but mind you. But now that
    she sees that it goes forward, she finds into better, and in the
    next few years I hope all be good. "
    
    "Father is very happy now, he is from early on by the hand, and measures
and records, and orders, and if he also sometimes quarrel with the
people who do not want to Make as Much as it is for good, so he gets
the little excitement quite well because he is big and fat it, and
looks good and kicking off.

    "
    
    "But now enough of us, me and us all the concern expressed as it to
    you in your new life is going, my heart, and if you yourself
    from Your illness recovered fully. Lord of Hopfgarten, the Dir tell
    a lot of us will, of course, you promised us themselves to visit,
    and to pay us accurate report, but we would also like to see it by
    yourself in writing that you are well is, keeps his word to your dear
    husband, and brings you to us. We look forward to infinity, and
    until then we are already better established than now. Our address
    do I write to you down here very well.

    How are you getting Hedwig, she is happy and ? Healthy "-
    
    "But I must close now, people come out with the a cow that we had
    run away, and after they have the all day were looking for,
    is in the kitchen to do so much, I can not sit here any longer,
    I only wanted you can at least know how we are doing. So live
    quite well, Greetings to your dear husband and Hedwig very nice
    of us Allen, as I am also all for you lot applied a thousand greetings
have, and remember sometimes friendly

Your Marie.

    "

Ninth chapter

Lord of Hopfgarten adventure.

Hopfgarten reached after a short and not unpleasant ride the small town of Hollow Field, from
the beginning but he really believed he has returned to Grahamstown as possible one another.
Only the inn sign was different: the ugly bust any human figure with
great Allongenperrücke and in a blue uniform is buttoned, the Signature,
must be well respected internally, externally here but sadly mistreated
Name "George Washington" was wearing.

In due time he arrived was, incidentally, for the mail coach or post coach was standing moved out
before the "Washington Hotel" and in a leather containers, the rear of the slightly helpless-looking
wagon was attached, as in the front in the box under the driver's seat (Called by the English
boots) were just a couple of young boys busy small insert suitcases,
travel bags, hat boxes, and other passenger common items, and - Where
they have not willingly add to the limited space wanted - hineinzutreten
with their feet.

This coach was within her nine people, eight passengers were already enrolled but which is outside
him, only two went to Vincennes, and after its passage, the German
money paid, he had treated the satisfaction of his own travel bag
in the same way to see how the baggage of his post companions.

With a little distrustful eyes, he looked the way from the start of him yet New American transport
agent, however, compared with his sisters in Europe, Some things to do was poor. Incidentally,
the box seemed strong enough to build even the most serious Vicissitudes of their trip to face
bravely. The "feathers" were made of strips of raw skin, and the coach himself had only, as was Lord
of Hopfgarten, on closer inspection, a single door in the left side. Three seats were installed
in the interior, each for three people, with the most passengers on a moving medium and also
in rawhide hanging Bank came to sit, and were allowed to put their backs against another wide leather
belt. Instead of padding in the corners - the door had a glass washer
- hung on the sides of leather Curtain down, which could be up and
settled at pleasure of the passengers.

So far everything was good to board, which of course for the whole of passengers only by the a
door was found, but that Hopfgarten, as the last passenger, the middle one place get to the Central
Bank had the most, and thus of course, every reference to his Head was robbed. He had to keep the
same constantly in limbo, and could only hope to get into a corner when some of the other
passengers who were not quite up to Vincennes drove, got out. The horses were biased, the passengers
climbed into their seats, the German as the second last, the blow was thrown. "All right," cried
the servant, or a similar individual who seemed to feel very independent, but otherwise, the
four lively, pretty well kept cents to subject, and with a terrible shock, which even the quality
of the leather band was rehearsing back, in motion, the car suddenly rattled to the cheers of
the young people of Hollow Field in full flight to the small Place
and into the woods.

The reader, who never raced in an American coach, even for a notion the jerky motion, even only
intermittently to teach would be impossible, and Hopfgarten thanked
after the first quarter of an hour to God that left him in no time
Hollow Field been to take a proper meal, he would have had to endure
the torments of hell.

One other inconvenience, he escaped again but not the spitting of Americans he had since his
first steam boat noticed, and it seemed to him have been fatal without the harassed him further,
but here, in the narrow space of the coach-box, he came to the people in such close contact that
he use the disgusting could not walk out of the way and soon found to his horror as he really
wanton in a most dire situation As was brought into it. That the other passengers through the open
window of the shock a fairly regular fire from ausgespritztem Tabackssaft talking was allowed, it
naturally not astonish, he had it even if was not prepared to such a degree. The genirte him
so no more, he closed his eyes and gave himself up with it until he have used a little more about
it would be his own thoughts, but the ill-fated passenger to his right, who sat with him on the
same Bret, as the front in the right Corner - and the latter even more than the first - soon
brought him to despair. The good people namely, long hulking Hoosier, [17], besides, did not
know what they do with her legs had to because the leather strapped down by her side, was obliquely
at him and spit him away to reach the car window, and though the middle passenger tried in the beginning
between their knees hit the floor, so that was rather worse than the first. Hopfgarten could
never get the slightest reason to complain, because not even the smallest syringe of met him,
so cleverly directs the boys to brown juice where they wanted him. But despite this, in the
next hour, perhaps sixty Time experience gained, he could not help after each expectoration itself
down , To see to make sure of the status quo of his coat and his trousers until he finally - the
last man blunts itself against Tabackssaft - a battered wool Blanket pulled around him and
this cost factor is determined undertook to pay attention to nothing further.

All the passengers seemed to farmers from the neighborhood or from Vincennes to be - even a
Quaker, who was between them - partly for the cattle trade, and partly to other such purposes,
the Ohio between Cincinnati and the small settlements and the mouth the Wabash had visited. The
conversation was a link between the spitting and rattles and shaking of the car, solely to cattle
and pigs, corn prices and "what flour and whiskey were worth. "The area was also quite the same,
the forest where the eye enough, only occasionally interrupted by small settlements, which are
always on some time before noticeable by the way was muddy. It was here at all more rain than
the river, or rather still raining as soon as they come down individually Showers proved. The
paths that now and then over a small open meadow and natural spots - First foothills of the prairies
- led, were always soft and rough, and the vigorous Galop with their journey began shrinking,
most recently matched to a tough step, in which to drag the panting horse and cart, the unwieldy
by the heavy clay soil had.

       * * * * *

Here and there they stopped at small inns poor enough looking at some refreshment which was always
spiced with brandy in all shapes and blends, to eat, but otherwise the trip went forward quickly
without interruption, and the various driver, with good horses, always
did, really all it can to move forward.

       

* * * * *

So broke in the night, the rain became stronger, the road impassable; everywhere were here broken
down branches and twigs, even overturned tribes, stalking it often quarter-hour cost, Kreutzer
and queer over it, while already in the help of individual passengers claim had to be taken to
the front in the "boot" from lying ax, the worst obstacles to hit the road. If they pass sometimes
a deep sump body in the street remained even left them nothing but about the way to haun a
new path. Hopfgarten had is this "small Hülfsleistungen" of which the brave Hoosiers often
very wet and muddy returned, and gave off a terrible haze in the car until now escape still knew
and was uphill despite repeated taunts of the others, and down quietly in the car sitting
still. As long as he could get was the dry matter even more unbearable, and then they took a
few hours longer to Vincennes and missed the Cincinnati Post, what's
that?

He then spent a few days there and looked at the Neighborhood, such as the one beginning Illinois
prairies.

Slowly the heavy crockery rattled, however, now almost at every stroke of the curses and imprecations
accompanied the impatient passengers, stormy by the wild Night. The wind howled in the trees, and
the rain fell with such force against the established to protect leather, that even the most
willing concern of today's head wagging about the possibility of repeated folding. Contrary
to expectations was the coach But now on better ways to quickly and
alive, and then screened again thend in softer ground, slowly and
painfully forward, but at least forward, and the forest here was much
more open than in the places they passed the evening, and the way
of wood almost entirely free.

It might become his elf clock, they just had another small town with some a great name to leave,
and the outgoing coach, gave them new some well-intentioned warnings
about the now passive leaders "blossom green swamp" (the green swamp,
where flowers) when they heard splashing out at the wheels. Often, latterly, had the grey-haired veteran been in the habit of alluding
to her; for he saw the subject was one that imparted a mournful satisfaction to the youth;
and, with a tact that years, more than deep reading of the human heart, had given him, he ever
made a point of adverting to their re-union as an event admitting not of doubt.

Hitherto the affectionate De Haldimar had loved to listen to these sounds of comfort; for,
although they carried no conviction to his mind, impressed as he was with the terrible curse
of Ellen Halloway, and the consequent belief that his family were devoted to some fearful doom,
still they came soothingly and unctuously to his sick soul; and, all deceptive even as he felt
them to be, he found they created a hope which, while certain to be dispelled by calm after-reflection,
carried a momentary solace to his afflicted spirit. But, now that he had every evidence his
adored sister was no more, and that the illusion of hope was past for ever, to have heard her
name even mentioned by one who, ignorant of the fearful truth the events of that night had
elucidated, was still ready to renew a strain every chord of which had lost its power of harmony,
was repugnant beyond bearing to his heart. At one moment he resolved briefly to acquaint the
old man with the dreadful fact, but unwillingness to give pain prevented him; and, moreover,
he felt the grief the communication would draw from the faithful servitor of his family must
be of so unchecked a nature as to render his own sufferings even more poignant than they were.
Neither had he (independently of all other considerations) resolution enough to forego the
existence of hope in another, even although it had passed entirely away from himself. It was
for these reasons he had so harshly and (for him) unkindly checked, the attempt of the old
man at a conversation which he, at every moment, felt would be made to turn on the ill-fated Clara.

Miserable as he felt his position to be, it was not without satisfaction he again heard the
voice of his sergeant summoning him to the inspection of another relief. This duty performed,
and anxious to avoid the paining presence of his servant, he determined, instead of returning
to his guard-room, to consume the hour that remained before day in pacing the ramparts. Leaving
word with his subordinate, that, in the event of his being required, he might be found without
difficulty, he ascended to that quarter of the works where the Indian had been first seen who
had so mysteriously conveyed the sad token he still retained in his breast. It was on the same
side with that particular point whence we have already stated a full view of the bridge with
its surrounding scenery, together with the waters of the Detroit, where they were intersected
by Hog Island, were distinctly commanded. At either of those points was stationed a sentinel,
whose duty it was to extend his beat between the boxes used now rather as lines of demarcation
than as places of temporary shelter, until each gained that of his next comrade, when they
again returned to their own, crossing each other about half way: a system of precaution pursued
by the whole of the sentinels in the circuit of the rampart.

The ostensible motive of the officer in ascending the works, was to visit his several posts;
but no sooner had he found himself between the points alluded to, which happened to be the
first in his course, than he seemed to be riveted there by a species of fascination. Not that
there was any external influence to produce this effect, for the utmost stillness reigned both
within and around the fort; and, but for the howling of some Indian wolf-dog in the distance,
or the low and monotonous beat of their drums in the death-dance, there was nought that gave
evidence of the existence of the dreadful enemy by whom they were beset. But the whole being
of the acutely suffering De Haldimar was absorbed in recollections connected with the spot
on which he stood. At one extremity was the point whence he had witnessed the dreadful tragedy
of Halloway's death; at the other, that on which had been deposited the but too unerring record
of the partial realisation of the horrors threatened at the termination of that tragedy; and
whenever he attempted to pass each of these boundaries, he felt as if his limbs repugned the
effort.

In the sentinels, his appearance among them excited but little surprise; for it was no uncommon
thing for the officers of the guard to spend the greatest part of the night in visiting, in
turn, the several more exposed points of the ramparts; and that it was now confined to one
particular part, seemed not even to attract their notice. It was, therefore, almost wholly
unremarked by his men, that the heart-stricken De Haldimar paced his quick and uncertain walk
with an imagination filled with the most fearful forebodings, and with a heart throbbing with
the most painful excitement. Hitherto, since the discovery of the contents of the packet, his
mind had been so exclusively absorbed in stupifying grief for his sister, that his perception
seemed utterly incapable of outstepping the limited sphere drawn around it; but now, other
remembrances, connected with the localities, forced themselves upon his attention; and although,
in all these, there was nothing that was not equally calculated to carry dismay and sorrow
to his heart, still, in dividing his thoughts with the one supreme agony that bowed him down,
they were rather welcomed than discarded. His mind was as a wheel, embracing grief within grief,
multiplied to infinitude; and the wider and more diffusive the circle, the less powerful was
the concentration of sickening heart and brain on that which was the more immediate axis of
the whole.

Reminded, for the first time, as he pursued his measured but aimless walk, by the fatal portrait
which he more than once pressed with feverish energy to his lips, of the singular discovery
he had made that night in the apartments of his father, he was naturally led, by a chain of
consecutive thought, into a review of the whole of the extraordinary scene. The fact of the
existence of a second likeness of his mother was one that did not now fail to reawaken all
the unqualified surprise he had experienced at the first discovery. So far from having ever
heard his father make the slightest allusion to this memorial of his departed mother, he perfectly
recollected his repeatedly recommending to Clara the safe custody of a treasure, which, if
lost, could never be replaced. What could be the motive for this mystery?--and why had he sought
to impress him with the belief it was the identical portrait worn by his sister which had so
unintentionally been exposed to his view? Why, too, had he evinced so much anxiety to remove
from his mind all unfavourable impressions in regard to his mother? Why have been so energetic
in his caution not to suffer a taint of impurity to attach to her memory? Why should he have
supposed the possibility of such impression, unless there had been sufficient cause for it?
In what, moreover, originated his triumphant expression of feature, when, on that occasion,
he reminded him that HIS name was not Reginald? Who, then, was this Reginald? Then came the
recollection of what had been repeated to him of the parting scene between Halloway and his
wife. In addressing her ill-fated husband, she had named him Reginald. Could it be possible
this was the same being alluded to by his father? But no; his youth forbade the supposition,
being but two years older than his brother Frederick; yet might he not, in some way or other,
be connected with the Reginald of the letter? Why, too, had his father shown such unrelenting
severity in the case of this unfortunate victim?--a severity which had induced more than one
remark from his officers, that it looked as if he entertained some personal feeling of enmity
towards a man who had done so much for his family, and stood so high in the esteem of all who
knew him.

Then came another thought. At the moment of his execution, Halloway had deposited a packet
in the hands of Captain Blessington;--could these letters--could that portrait be the same?
Certain it was, by whatever means obtained, his father could not have had them long in his
possession; for it was improbable letters of so old a date should have occupied his attention
NOW, when many years had rolled over the memory of his mother. And then, again, what was the
meaning of the language used by the implacable enemy of his father, that uncouth and ferocious
warrior of the Fleur de lis, not only on the occasion of the execution of Halloway, but afterwards
to his brother, during his short captivity; and, subsequently, when, disguised as a black,
he penetrated, with the band of Ponteac, into the fort, and aimed his murderous weapon at his
father's head. What had made him the enemy of his family? and where and how had originated
his father's connection with so extraordinary and so savage a being? Could he, in any way,
be implicated with his mother? But no; there was something revolting, monstrous, in the thought:
besides, had not his father stood forward the champion of her innocence?--had he not declared,
with an energy carrying conviction with every word, that she was untainted by guilt? And would
he have done this, had he had reason to believe in the existence of a criminal love for him
who evidently was his mortal foe? Impossible.

Such were the questions and solutions that crowded on and distracted the mind of the unhappy
De Haldimar, who, after all, could arrive at no satisfactory conclusion. It was evident there
was a secret,--yet, whatever its nature, it was one likely to go down with his father to the
grave; for, however humiliating the reflection to a haughty parent, compelled to vindicate
the honour of a mother to her son, and in direct opposition to evidence that scarcely bore
a shadow of misinterpretation, it was clear he had motives for consigning the circumstance
to oblivion, which far outweighed any necessity he felt of adducing other proofs of her innocence
than those which rested on his own simple yet impressive assertion.

In the midst of these bewildering doubts, De Haldimar heard some one approaching in his rear,
whose footsteps he distinguished from the heavy pace of the sentinels. He turned, stopped,
and was presently joined by Captain Blessington.

"Why, dearest Charles," almost querulously asked the kind officer, as he passed his arm through
that of his subaltern,--"why will you persist in feeding this love of solitude? What possible
result can it produce, but an utter prostration of every moral and physical energy? Come, come,
summon a little fortitude; all may not yet be so hopeless as you apprehend. For my own part,
I feel convinced the day will dawn upon some satisfactory solution of the mystery of that packet."

"Blessington, my dear Blessington!"--and De Haldimar spoke with mournful energy,--"you have
known me from my boyhood, and, I believe, have ever loved me; seek not, therefore, to draw
me from the present temper of my mind; deprive me not of an indulgence which, melancholy as
it is, now constitutes the sole satisfaction I take in existence."

"By Heaven! Charles, I will not listen to such language. You absolutely put my patience to
the rack."

"Nay, then, I will urge no more," pursued the young officer. "To revert, therefore, to a different
subject. Answer me one question with sincerity. What were the contents of the packet you received
from poor Halloway previous to his execution? and in whose possession are they now?"

Pleased to find the attention of his young friend diverted for the moment from his sister,
Captain Blessington quickly rejoiced, he believed the packet contained letters which Halloway
had stated to him were of a nature to throw some light on his family connections. He had, however,
transferred it, with the seal unbroken, as desired by the unhappy man, to Colonel de Haldimar.

An exclamation of surprise burst involuntarily from the lips of the youth. "Has my father ever
made any allusion to that packet since?" he asked.

"Never," returned Captain Blessington; "and, I confess, his failing to do so has often excited
my astonishment. But why do you ask?"

De Haldimar energetically pressed the arm of his captain, while a heavy sigh burst from his
oppressed heart "This very night, Blessington, on entering my father's apartment to apprise
him of what was going on here, I saw,--I can scarcely tell you what, but certainly enough to
convince me, from what you have now stated, Halloway was, in some degree or other, connected
with our family. Tell me," he anxiously pursued, "was there a portrait enclosed with the letters?"

"I cannot state with confidence, Charles," replied his friend; "but if I might judge from the
peculiar form and weight of the packet, I should be inclined to say not. Have you seen the
letters, then?"

"I have seen certain letters which, I have reason to believe, are the same," returned De Haldimar.
"They were addressed to 'Reginald;' and Halloway, I think you have told me, was so called by
his unhappy wife."

"There can be little doubt they are the same," said Captain Blessington; "but what were their
contents, and by whom written, that you deem they prove a connection between the unhappy soldier
and your family?"

De Haldimar felt the blood rise into his cheek, at this natural but unexpected demand. "I am
sure, Blessington," he replied, after a pause, "you will not think me capable of unworthy mystery
towards yourself but the contents of these letters are sacred, inasmuch as they relate only
to circumstances connected with my father's family."

"This is singular indeed," exclaimed Captain Blessington, in a tone that marked his utter and
unqualified astonishment at what had now been disclosed to him; "but surely, Charles," he pursued,
"if the packet handed me by Halloway were the same you allude to, he would have caused the
transfer to have been made before the period chosen by him for that purpose."

"But the name," pursued De Haldimar; "how are we to separate the identity of the packets, when
we recur to that name of 'Reginald?'"

"True," rejoined the musing Blessington; "there is a mystery in this that baffles all my powers
of penetration. Were I in possession of the contents of the letters, I might find some clue
to solve the enigma: but--"

"You surely do not mean this as a reproach, Blessington?" fervently interrupted the youth.
"More I dare not, cannot say, for the secret is not my own; and feelings, which it would be
dishonour to outrage, alone bind me to silence. What little I have revealed to you even now,
has been uttered in confidence. I hope you have so understood it."

"Perfectly, Charles. What you have stated, goes no further; but we have been too long absent
from our guard, and I confess I have no particular fancy for remaining in this chill night-air.
Let us return."

De Haldimar made no opposition, and they both prepared to quit the rampart. As they passed
the sentinel stationed at that point where the Indian had been first seen, their attention
was directed by him to a fire that now suddenly rose, apparently at a great distance, and rapidly
increased in volume. The singularity of this occurrence riveted the officers for a moment in
silent observation; until Captain Blessington at length ventured a remark, that, judging from
the direction, and the deceptive nature of the element at night, he should incline to think
it was the hut of the Canadian burning.

"Which is another additional proof, were any such wanting, that every thing is lost," mournfully
urged the ever apprehensive De Haldimar. "Francois has been detected in rendering aid to our
friends; and the Indians, in all probability, after having immolated their victim, are sacrificing
his property to their rage."

During this exchange of opinions, the officers had again moved to the opposite point of the
limited walk of the younger. Scarcely had they reached it, and before Captain Blessington could
find time to reply to the fears of his friend, when a loud and distant booming like that of
a cannon was heard in the direction of the fire. The alarm was given hastily by the sentinels,
and sounds of preparation and arming were audible in the course of a minute or two every where
throughout the fort. Startled by the report, which they had half inclined to imagine produced
by the discharge of one of their own guns, the half slumbering officers had quitted the chairs
in which they had passed the night in the mess-room, and were soon at the side of their more
watchful companions, then anxiously listening for a repetition of the sound.

The day was just beginning to dawn, and as the atmosphere cleared gradually away, it was perceived
the fire rose not from the hut of the Canadian, but at a point considerably beyond it. Unusual
as it was to see a large fire of this description, its appearance became an object of minor
consideration, since it might be attributed to some caprice or desire on the part of the Indians
to excite apprehension in their enemies. But how was the report which had reached their ears
to be accounted for? It evidently could only have been produced by the discharge of a cannon;
and if so, where could the Indians have procured it? No such arm had recently been in their
possession; and if it were, they were totally unacquainted with the manner of serving it.

As the day became more developed, the mystery was resolved. Every telescope in the fort had
been called into requisition; and as they were now levelled in the direction of the fire, sweeping
the line of horizon around, exclamations of surprise escaped the lips of several.

"The fire is at the near extremity of the wood on Hog Island," exclaimed Lieutenant Johnstone.
"I can distinctly see the forms of a multitude of savages dancing round it with hideous gestures
and menacing attitudes."

"They are dancing their infernal war dance," said Captain Wentworth. "How I should like to
be able to discharge a twenty-four pound battery, loaded with grape, into the very heart of
the devilish throng."

"Do you see any prisoners?--Are any of our friends among them?" eagerly and tremblingly enquired
De Haldimar of the officer who had last spoken.

Captain Wentworth made a sweep of his glass along the shores of the island; but apparently
without success. He announced that he could discover nothing but a vast number of bark canoes
lying dry and upturned on the beach.

"It is an unusual hour for their war dance," observed Captain Blessington. "My experience furnishes
me with no one instance in which it has not been danced previous to their retiring to rest."

"Unless," said Lieutenant Boyce, "they should have been thus engaged all night; in which case
the singularity may be explained."

"Look, look," eagerly remarked Lieutenant Johnstone--"see how they are flying to their canoes,
bounding and leaping like so many devils broke loose from their chains. The fire is nearly
deserted already."

"The schooner--the schooner!" shouted Captain Erskine. "By Heaven, our own gallant schooner!
see how beautifully she drives past the island. It was her gun we heard, intended as a signal
to prepare us for her appearance."

A thrill of wild and indescribable emotion passed through every heart. Every eye was turned
upon the point to which attention was now directed. The graceful vessel, with every stitch
of canvass set, was shooting rapidly past the low bushes skirting the sands that still concealed
her hull; and in a moment or two she loomed largely and proudly on the bosom of the Detroit,
the surface of which was slightly curled with a north-western breeze.

"Safe, by Jupiter!" exclaimed the delighted Erskine, dropping the glass upon the rampart, and
rubbing his hands together with every manifestation of joy.

"The Indians are in chase," said Lieutenant Boyce; "upwards of fifty canoes are following in
the schooner's wake. But Danvers will soon give us an account of their Lilliputian fleet."

"Let the troops be held in readiness for a sortie, Mr. Lawson," said the governor, who had
joined his officers just as the schooner cleared the island; "we must cover their landing,
or, with this host of savages in pursuit, they will never effect it alive."

During the whole of this brief but exciting scene, the heart of Charles de Haldimar beat audibly.
A thousand hopes and fears rushed confusedly on his mind, and he was as one bewildered by,
and scarcely crediting what he saw. Could Clara,--could his cousin--could his brother--could
his friend be on board? He scarcely dared to ask himself these questions; still it was with
a fluttering heart, in which hope, however, predominated, that he hastened to execute an order
of his captain, that bore immediate reference to his duty as subaltern of the guard.

CHAPTER V.

Meanwhile the schooner dashed rapidly along, her hull occasionally hid from the view of those
assembled on the ramparts by some intervening orchard or cluster of houses, but her tall spars
glittering in their covering of white canvass, and marking the direction of her course. At
length she came to a point in the river that offered no other interruption to the eye than
what arose from the presence of almost all the inhabitants of the village, who, urged by curiosity
and surprise, were to be seen crowding the intervening bank. Here the schooner was suddenly
put about, and the English colours, hitherto concealed by the folds of the canvass, were at
length discovered proudly floating in the breeze.

Immediately over the gateway of the fort there was an elevated platform, approached by the
rampart, of which it formed a part, by some half dozen rude steps on either side; and on this
platform was placed a long eighteen pounder, that commanded the whole extent of road leading
from the drawbridge to the river. Hither the officers had all repaired, while the schooner
was in the act of passing the town; and now that, suddenly brought up in the wind's eye, she
rode leisurely in the offing, every movement on her decks was plainly discernible with the
telescope.

"Where the devil can Danvers have hid all his crew?" first spoke Captain Erskine; "I count
but half a dozen hands altogether on deck, and these are barely sufficient to work her."

"Lying concealed, and ready, no doubt, to give the canoes a warm reception," observed Lieutenant
Johnstone; "but where can our friends be? Surely, if there, they would show themselves to us."

There was truth in this remark; and each felt discouraged and disappointed that they did not
appear.

"There come the whooping hell fiends," said Major Blackwater. "By Heaven! the very water is
darkened with the shadows of their canoes."

Scarcely had he spoken, when the vessel was suddenly surrounded by a multitude of savages,
whose fierce shouts rent the air, while their dripping paddles, gleaming like silver in the
rays of the rising sun, were alternately waved aloft in triumph, and then plunged into the
troubled element, which they spurned in fury from their blades. To you know that you go and do
what I have commanded you: I will know nothing more I tell you, "he shouted at the Son unwilling
to when he wanted to say something again, and Frank, left a deep sigh, But more to offer than ever
determined his hand Nothing he's not before the responsible conscience, can the room.

This, however, went, his arms crossed throughout on the back with quick, agitated steps of the
Hamann old up and down, softly muttering curses in his beard, and dark with his head to and reluctantly
shaking.

Someone out there was a gentle knock at the door

"Come in," cried
the old man gruffly.

to speak "Mr. Harman?" asked a friendly voice.

"Ah, you just called me to come as, Messerschmidt," cried the old
man quickly meet - She met my boy?

"

"Mr. Hamann Jr. were as friendly to me of the somewhat dark staircase,
almost run to the pile.

"

He's mad the kid, "said the father.

"In love, perhaps," smiled Mr Messerschmidt.

"God forbid, he wants a German small-child-care institution, and a
free house immigration .

Form "

"Bah," said M. Messerschmidt, "that's an idea that curirt best by the same means is that they alone
could call into life. "

"What's that? - "

"Money," said the detective, shrugging his shoulders - "that's the
old story of the only such always put forward is that just have no
money to own, use it to it.

Please transfer your son a fortune, and it is something clever with it. "

»Asset transfer," muttered the old man - "You talk out there, as if
I have two or more would have to forgive.

That angers me precisely that the young will just ruin the bowl, which to earn his poor old
father, the bread must, under the body he wants to draw me away the chair, and put his dirty steerage
rabble out, it is to despair. "

"Nonsense," smiled Mr Messerschmidt - "let us talk of something more sensible, the is an idea which
subsided in beautiful, well-sounding phrases, and if you follow me
give it quite right yet to merry him to start on something like this
and promise him their active assistance and support.

"

"That I would be a fool," cried the old man, boy, "kept me at his word, and what the worst is he
chasing me now the customers from the house, and would be able to own to put father in the pillory.
"

"That would be fatal," said Mr Messerschmidt, eyes eyebrows pulling and suddenly becoming quite
serious, "if the thing is so, the best neighbor, there would I advise you as yet, do the guys
prefer to leave the house, and someone in to take, which you can rely on. I myself would - "

"Propose
to you my own son, heh? Was" him the old man short and with a distrustful Look into the question
- "Am I right or not?"

"Now the boy has talent and good will."

"Believe me," muttered the old man, "but my own flesh and blood is closer to me, and I 'll even
bring the boy to his senses, he must obey me, or - but the devil
take it, we want to talk about 'what else, "he interrupted himself
suddenly, -"

They come because the mortgage history? "

"Oh, God forbid," laughed Mr Messerschmidt, "the matter is quite simple,
the young lad claims that the two gold watches at your previous bartender,
which he and the receipt has to have added, is now gone, no one knows
where, and I gave him the good now Advice given to make a call to
print it in the New Orleans Advertiser, that he after no one responds,
of course by itself No, dear Hamann, I wanted bring our little carriage
account in order - just need money, and must, before the new year
my Casse regulate anyway.

"

"And how much makes it a whole?"

"A hundred and seven and ninety dollars fifty cents."

"For two months?"

"Yes, and a few days - given your business are considered brilliant,
this is the way the specifirte note.

"

"Hm, hm," said Mr. Hamann, the paper handed him by slowly opening and reading - "There is indeed
a goldsmith with 10 dollars out of only eight days remained in the house and not once paid his
boarding - what you crazy? - The stress you have.

"

"He was with me yesterday," Mr Messerschmidt said, smiling, "and asked
me for advice as he probably could come back to the needle cloth,
probably some eighty dollars will be worth.

"

"Bah, nonsense, the curd was faked - seventy-five cents for it has
given me the Jew."

"I've also told him," smiled the agent, "and even assured him that I would It can testify in case
of need. "

"Worthless scum," growled Mr. Hamann, in righteous indignation at the wickedness mentioned in the world,
but nothing out of the ten dollars. The agent observed him, however, in silence as he read, and
drummed on his hat while he was holding between his knees, a march.

"Here is another item that does not belong here."

"And? - "

"The Oldenburg - I ask for God's sake, what you create for people in my house. Three weeks now,
I feed the whole party, and told them this morning, because it does
figure out anything from them is terminated - as I can therefore two
dollars for the head count?

"

"You're right, that would be unfair," said Mr. Messerschmidt friendly - "we do it then rather
do so - I'll pay the "boarding" for the people who draw but what they provided, however, have
to work in the house, down, and then get their luggage delivered
for so long.

"

Mr. Harman saw nothing less than a friendly glance at him over, but folded on the paper, it was
a few seconds as thoughtful in his hand and said, shaking his head:

"That would make a mass conditions and calculation - there you go to the desk and write Me your
receipt, I will however get the money. "

»Age crooks," murmured Mr. Messerschmidt, the landlord but inaudible, kind between the By teeth,
and went with a polite bow to the lectern, the request sequence to
afford.

A few minutes later Diess business between the two men settled.

As Mr Messerschmidt just counted the money, considering the individual notes very well and was
then placed in his pocket, there was another knock at the door, and
surly on the "Come in." master of the house, expressed himself, anxious
and embarrassed, his hat under the arm bruising, one of the Oldenburg
into the room and remained standing at the door.

"Well, what the hell," said Mr. Hamann, while Mr. Messerschmidt standing
up to the window went and looked out into the street.

"Mr. Wirth said the Oldenburger with pleading expression in his voice,"
you pour us earlier that you no longer want to keep us in food.

"

"Feeding do you think that?" Said Mr. Hamann, "how do I get to shiploads fully to feed people,
not that I would get paid a penny?

"

"We want to go like to," said the man, "and pay you later, all to
the last penny, but he does not want to give to us our bags.

"

"Even still, right? - Only God knows how long here with all the families live off, and take
it out also with bag and baggage - you are not stupid, it must be true, and stupid maybe not.
"

"We do indeed like to leave the value of food in gehabten things if
we only take away the rest of may.

We can not be so into it go out into the world? "

"That does not concern me," replied the landlord, but sullenly, -
"I've got no trade with old clothes, but a guest house where I for
every pound of meat, which I have wants to have ready money to pay
with my money - "

"But what we are because you actually owe?" Asked the man, "the pouring us a bill, where, standing
on a lot of glasses of drinks, which we know nothing, but not a penny for the work off that we
have done in the time for you, and the women have one weeks weeks
washed out and we split all their own wood and sawed down your shit,
your potatoes identified in the field, and managed to come.

"

"The working days are not written with you," said Mr. Hamann.

"No, that's true, but nothing too good for it, dear God, we have our clothes it torn down access
and efficient, as you know yourself best. "

"My food was not bad, and the dear times I could before my children's not be justified, if I use
other people for free feeding, and why you are looking for you no fixed Work. "

"My dear God," said the man, "because the Lord stands at the window, you may be out give the
best answer he has given us not put off from week to week and over and over promised, and always
brought nothing? "

"Well, now I do even reproached me for your sake I passed the shoe soles, without a red three have
that, "said Mr. Messerschmidt, quickly and angrily Turning around
after the man, "I can force people to give you work, or did I me ever
committed?

"

"No offense," asked the poor fellow sheepishly, "it was not even meant so angry, and I have only
mentioned to prove to the gentleman that we indeed wanted to do all what is just only in our power.
stood "

"Well, I'll tell what," said Mr. Hamann after a small break in which
he, like pondering down before seen, "since you make it too much trouble,
the women would take, look if your work is, the two women like here
with the two children with me dwell in the house, and arrange for
their food, the laundry until you come back.

Are you the satisfied? "

"But you were not there for them at least a little, exposing only
a very small salary?" asked the man, "so that we -"

"Well enough, the people of a finger and they grab the whole hand,"
said Mr. Hamann indignantly turning to the agent - "Go to hell with
your whole clan, I want to thank my God, if I'm going all of you.

"

"But so it was not meant yes," the man said shyly, "we see that they
are indeed a Need and have had enough trouble with us, and the women
only as a favor here so long want to leave the house - no offense
to others and we then want to do our best and we only find work, certainly
wear our debts soon.

Something we can wash us out of our suitcases, do not perceive Mr Hamann. "

"Yes, fair enough, the bartender will give you the out afterwards,
and now does, however, that your away as, I have to do more, and if
the bartender has time he will even have a moment .

Coming up "

The poor devil of Bauer thanked the man most warmly, and would like him to hand were enough to
leave all due respect, if he's had just married.

Sun bowed he is only against the two men who stayed not his, and
pulled the door behind in the castle, but immediately afterwards,
and this occurs more rapidly than previously flew.

Reluctantly Mr. Hamann saw there, rejected a further disruption of the farmers with indignation,
when he looked into the red, half-mocking, half bold face one of his Irish Boarders, very disrespectful
of him nodding confidentially, the door had closed behind him, and
then click Mr. Hamann was received.

"Well, so what, Patrick? - What you have to look up here, "cried the landlord, with the? Always close
to the half-drunken fellows just do not quite happy, grumpy, contrary, - "why You, the bartender
has left up here? "

"Could prevent's just not my heart," Patrick said with a laugh, "because as he told me in wanted
to connect the way I put it gently - I have the cute little fellow is not a hurt done that
- under the sideboard. "

"What do you cried because of me as" Mr. Hamann dismay of - 'what
do you expect that your forcibly break up here to me, and mistreated
my people.

"

"Peace in Jäsus my heart," but it quieted the rowdy Irishman, "Nothing honey, like a little account
between us two, each of which believes that the other in his Fault. "

"I'm in your debt Patrick cried but Mr. Hamann quickly from surprise -" well, therefore, because
you have eaten almost three weeks with me and drink? "

"At the bar is in every sip cents and half cents paid," protested the Irishman.

"But the food, who reported that?"

"I told you not taken the moat around the yard?"

"The ditch," said Mr. Hamann contemptuously, "Do you have three full days, that is, the hours
off that you join us in giving room sat the little ditch - "

"Over lunch, honey."

"Well yes, we do not investigate - struggled for three full days with the small ditch, which
a good worker would quit in a day.

But I'm also willing yourself to pay for that. "

"Well, honey, we're all right," laughed the Irishman, "your wooden head of barman I would publish
my bundle of themselves and have spared an inconvenience. "

"If you herauszahlst the rest."

"What rest -"

"The me is still good -"

"Damn the cent that you get there," laughed the Irishman - "three days of work pr. Day two Dollars,
six dollars.

"

"Three days and two dollars a day? - You're crazy. "

"Never mind, [10] will still be enough for understanding my own interest to perceive," joked the Irishman
- "makes that is six dollars, two a half a week for three dollars,
snowboarding, remain dollar and a half left, I counted the fish head
bartender at the bottom of the sideboard have, and take the Töffels
would not.

Of course, I plugged it back in, and now he can see how he gets for
the second time Patrick's pocket.

"

"You can not get your stuff rather pay your bill until you have," mingled at which point Mr
Messerschmidt's conversation, but also wanted to do the same Nothing to have said, for the
Irishman, heated by the dispute below and a few glasses of whiskey, now went so against him
and threatened him at the slightest syllable, which he, by the Thing in the world did not concern,
back into drafts, with such unmeasured number of blows that the cowardly
fellow wanted to slowly draw back to the door.

But thereto he was prevented by the attentive Irishman who was not
afraid without reason, the agent would then maybe make noise down
and fetch a constable, the two men but it explained that giving them
everything that stands in the room beat to pieces and their own two
miserable Cadaver still wants to connect down the stairs in front
of him when he would not immediately be delivered bundles of laundry.

Hamann and Messerschmidt, although the latter was firm, stocky build, dare not to drive the boys
to the annoyance and Hamann said very quickly and politely

"But
you make it not only such a noise, sir Patrick - if your work believe
are so much worth, I have not the least, however - let only the bottom
Give her bundle.

"

"Of course," said Patrick, who overlooked his advantage quickly, laughing, "Everything okay Mr.
Hamann - goes smoothly, then your only receipt for the fare paid "

Hamann would still refuse to give something in writing, however, he saw that he soon the boys
would not otherwise go, and he quickly wrote a few lines for the barkeeper.

"Thank you, sir," said the Irishman, the writing by letter irend and
then into the pocket oppressive - 'wing is now Ireland's but to me
- you do not want to go down and a drink with me?

"

"You have but now all you want?" Said Mr. Hamann, now finally impatient becoming.

"Haha, no offense," cried the Irishman, "if a gentleman wants to extract the other Irishmen,
this is a courtesy and should be considered as such, but never mind - if You do not want so much
better, and now good bye Gentlemen. "And his hands in his pocket pushing, while one of his Irish
Jigs whistled, Patrick left, with a full basic very pleased with
its success, the room, and a quarter hour later, with his Bundle under
his arm and the house where he was almost three weeks by a board and
lodging ertrotzt few days had light work.

"You should call a constable and arrest the boys leave," said Mr. Messerschmidt annoying, as
the Irishman had left the room.

"That to me demolish the house or
the villains after the state Schenk," growled Mr. Hamann "No running
of the Lump like, I may drop once again in a different way in the
hands But a warning to me's for the future, do not take Ireland back
to my house - It's drunken, rowdy, fraudulent people, because I praise
the Germans, who take Common sense and have respect from the police.
But dear God, I feel the anger properly in the limbs hit, and you
would do me a favor, Mr. Messerschmidt, if Me by one of the people
down a glass of wine sent up. "

"With pleasure," said Mr. Messerschmidt,
Taking up his hat and in the process the room to leave - "Mr. Hamann
apropos - the shares you bought last year, 're fabulous risen in recent
weeks - you need money it deserves a rapturous have. "

"If I could
have kept," said the morose landlord, "you think I deserve capitals
to lie down here? - God's the pity, my fellow Germans, with the losses
I have only to expenses for food and beverages, make me, if I any
longer the business would continue, a beggar, and am more than ever
inclined to retire me very and return it to my son, to escape the
eternal anger and scandal. If the foolish Journeymen to speak only
a word of sense - please the wine, Mr Messerschmidt ".

"Good morning,
Mr Hamann."

"Good morning Mr. Messerschmidt" - and the old man went
with hands crossed on his back and hard and angry frown returned to
his room and down until the Bartender, a small salver in hand, where
a carafe of red wine and a Water glass was in, and this was put on
the table. Hamann looked at him, nodded to him to that it was good,
and continued his march in the room, while Jimmy, however, at its
Body stopped, and - after a tiresome habit, one of his fingers after
another abknackte that it sounded as if he would break the limbs of
the body. 

"Now what's the matter yet," said Mr. Hamann, sullen,
stopping in front of him - "what you want?"

"Damn fine girl down,
Suer," said Jimmy, his eyebrows went up, and stretched, zurückpressend
shoulders, his head so far forward as he could only possibly.

"Damn
fine girl?" Said Mr. Hamann surprised, "what the hell is that schiert
me? - Are you drunk? "

Jimmy maintained his position, but moved his
mouth, as in friendly recognition of the gracious Joke, from one ear
to the other, no way to reciprocate even a syllable more.

"Well the
weather again, what do you want from me? stand there and pull the
foot wide, as if you had swallowed a sloe; believe that I have time
for your silliness to follow? "

How to put a single one jerk Tabacksbeutel
together and in numerous folds can, so the face of the man's just
been so friendly toward the center jumped to the a tip a pout, of
which the eyebrows, if possible, more remote, and perhaps half a minute
to change in this position, he said quietly:

"Someone sets anything
in any newspaper, if anyone of anything afterwards nothing want to
know? "

Mr. Hamann was even harder to reciprocate when he suddenly
remembered that he, however, an advertisement had had drafted into
the German Journal, after which he was a young German girl investigated
the waiting at table, pouring the coffee and tea, and monitoring his
dishes and his laundry to take over. Jimmy, however, when he realized
that his principal now what he knew was, again began to revidiren
his finger joints and überzuknacken, as if he wished to be convinced
of the usefulness of it.

"They bring a cut to despair, with your
damn faces and fingers break, "Mr Harman said but impatient -"? you
can not say right out, and straight '"

"Damn fine girl down, Süre,"
Jimmy began again, just like in the beginning! his speech, convince
the Principal that he might just do nothing else to say so. Sent
into the army, however, at an early age, and with a blood not remarkable for its mercurial
aptitudes, he had calmly and deliberately imbibed all the starched theories and standard prejudices
which a mind by no means naturally gifted was but too well predisposed to receive; and he was
among the number of those (many of whom are indigenous to our soil even at the present day)
who look down from a rank obtained, upon that which has been just quitted, with a contempt,
and coldness, and consciousness of elevation, commensurate only with the respect paid to those
still above them, and which it belongs only to the little-minded to indulge in.

As a subaltern, M. de Haldimar had ever been considered a pattern of rigid propriety and decorum
of conduct. Not the shadow of military crime had ever been laid to his charge. He was punctual
at all parades and drills; kept the company to which he was attached in a perfect hot water
of discipline; never missed his distance in marching past, or failed in a military manoeuvre;
paid his mess-bill regularly to the hour, nay, minute, of the settling day; and was never,
on any one occasion, known to enter the paymaster's office, except on the well-remembered 24th
of each month; and, to crown all, he had never asked, consequently never obtained, a day's
leave from his regiment, although he had served in it so long, that there was now but one man
living who had entered it with him. With all these qualities, Ensign de Haldimar promised to
make an excellent soldier; and, as such, was encouraged by the field-officers of the corps,
who unhesitatingly pronounced him a lad of discernment and talent, who would one day rival
them in all the glorious privileges of martinetism. It was even remarked, as an evidence of
his worth, that, when promoted to a lieutenancy, he looked down upon the ensigns with that
becoming condescension which befitted his new rank; and up to the captains with the deferential
respect he felt to be due to that third step in the five-barred gate of regimental promotion,
on which his aspiring but chained foot had not yet succeeded in reposing. What, therefore,
he became when he had succeeded in clambering to the top, and looked down from the lordly height
he had after many years of plodding service obtained, we must leave it to the imaginations
of our readers to determine. We reserve it to a future page, to relate more interesting particulars.

Sufficient has been shown, however, from this outline of his character, as well as from the
conversations among his officers, elsewhere transcribed, to account for the governor's conduct
in the case of Halloway. That the recommendation of his son, Captain de Haldimar, had not been
attended to, arose not from any particular ill-will towards the unhappy man, but simply because
he had always been in the habit of making his own selections from the ranks, and that the present
recommendation had been warmly urged by one who he fancied pretended to a discrimination superior
to his own, in pointing out merits that had escaped his observation. It might be, too, that
there was a latent pride about the manner of Halloway that displeased and dissatisfied one
who looked upon his subordinates as things that were amenable to the haughtiness of his glance,--not
enough of deference in his demeanour, or of supplicating obsequiousness in his speech, to entitle
him to the promotion prayed for. Whatever the motive, there was nothing of personality to influence
him in the rejection of the appeal made in favour of one who had never injured him; but who,
on the contrary, as the whole of the regiment could attest, had saved the life of his son.

Rigid disciplinarian as he was, and holding himself responsible for the safety of the garrison
it was but natural, when the discovery had been made of the unaccountable unfastening of the
gate of the fort, suspicion of no ordinary kind should attach to the sentinel posted there;
and that he should steadily refuse all credence to a story wearing so much appearance of improbability.
Proud, and inflexible, and bigoted to first impressions, his mind was closed against those
palliating circumstances, which, adduced by Halloway in his defence, had so mainly contributed
to stamp the conviction of his moral innocence on the minds of his judges and the attentive
auditory; and could he even have conquered his pride so far as to have admitted the belief
of that innocence, still the military crime of which he had been guilty, in infringing a positive
order of the garrison, was in itself sufficient to call forth all the unrelenting severity
of his nature. Throughout the whole of the proceedings subsequently instituted, he had acted
and spoken from a perfect conviction of the treason of the unfortunate soldier, and with the
fullest impression of the falsehood of all that had been offered in his defence. The considerations
that influenced the minds of his officers, found no entrance into his proud breast, which was
closed against every thing but his own dignified sense of superior judgment. Could he, like
them, have given credence to the tale of Halloway, or really have believed that Captain de
Haldimar, educated under his own military eye, could have been so wanting in subordination,
as not merely to have infringed a positive order of the garrison, but to have made a private
soldier of that garrison accessary to his delinquency, it is more than probable his stern habits
of military discipline would have caused him to overlook the offence of the soldier, in deeper
indignation at the conduct of the infinitely more culpable officer; but not one word did he
credit of a statement, which he assumed to have been got up by the prisoner with the mere view
of shielding himself from punishment: and when to these suspicions of his fidelity was attached
the fact of the introduction of his alarming visitor, it must be confessed his motives for
indulging in this belief were not without foundation.

The impatience manifested during the trial of Halloway was not a result of any desire of systematic
persecution, but of a sense of wounded dignity. It was a thing unheard of, and unpardonable
in his eyes, for a private soldier to assert, in his presence, his honour and his respectability
in extenuation, even while admitting the justice of a specific charge; and when he remarked
the Court listening with that profound attention, which the peculiar history of the prisoner
had excited, he could not repress the manifestation of his anger. In justice to him, however,
it must be acknowledged that, in causing the charge, to which the unfortunate man pleaded guilty,
to be framed, he had only acted from the conviction that, on the two first, there was not sufficient
evidence to condemn one whose crime was as clearly established, to his judgment, as if he had
been an eye-witness of the treason. It is true, he availed himself of Halloway's voluntary
confession, to effect his condemnation; but estimating him as a traitor, he felt little delicacy
was necessary to be observed on that score.

Much of the despotic military character of Colonel de Haldimar had been communicated to his
private life; so much, indeed, that his sons,--both of whom, it has been seen, were of natures
that belied their origin from so stern a stock,--were kept at nearly as great a distance from
him as any other subordinates of his regiment. But although he seldom indulged in manifestations
of parental regard towards those whom he looked upon rather as inferiors in military rank,
than as beings connected with him by the ties of blood, Colonel de Haldimar was not without
that instinctive love for his children, which every animal in the creation feels for its offspring.
He, also, valued and took a pride in, because they reflected a certain degree of lustre upon
himself, the talents and accomplishments of his eldest son, who, moreover, was a brave, enterprising
officer, and, only wanted, in his father's estimation, that severity of carriage and hauteur
of deportment, befitting HIS son, to render him perfect. As for Charles,--the gentle, bland,
winning, universally conciliating Charles,--he looked upon him as a mere weak boy, who could
never hope to arrive at any post of distinction, if only by reason of the extreme delicacy
of his physical organisation; and to have shown any thing like respect for his character, or
indulged in any expression of tenderness for one so far below his estimate of what a soldier,
a child of his, ought to be, would have been a concession of which his proud nature was incapable.
In his daughter Clara, however, the gentleness of sex claimed that warmer affection which was
denied to him, who resembled her in almost every attribute of mind and person. Colonel de Haldimar
doated on his daughter with a tenderness, for which few, who were familiar with his harsh and
unbending nature, ever gave him credit. She was the image of one on whom all of love that he
had ever known had been centered; and he had continued in Clara an affection, that seemed in
itself to form a portion, distinct and apart, of his existence.

We have already seen, as stated by Charles de Haldimar to the unfortunate wife of Halloway,
with what little success he had pleaded in the interview he had requested of his father, for
the preserver of his gallant brother's life; and we have also seen how equally inefficient
was the lowly and supplicating anguish of that wretched being, when, on quitting the apartment
of his son, Colonel de Haldimar had so unexpectedly found himself clasped in her despairing
embrace. There was little to be expected from an intercession on the part of one claiming so
little ascendancy over his father's heart, as the universally esteemed young officer; still
less from one who, in her shriek of agony, had exposed the haughty chief to the observation
both of men and officers, and under circumstances that caused his position to border on the
ludicrous. But however these considerations might have failed in effect, there was another
which, as a soldier, he could not wholly overlook. Although he had offered no comment on the
extraordinary recommendation to mercy annexed to the sentence of the prisoner, it had had a
certain weight with him; and he felt, all absolute even as he was, he could not, without exciting
strong dissatisfaction among his troops, refuse attention to a document so powerfully worded,
and bearing the signature and approval of so old and valued an officer as Captain Blessington.
His determination, therefore, had been formed, even before his visit to his son, to act as
circumstances might require; and, in the mean while, he commanded every preparation for the
execution to be made.

In causing a strong detachment to be marched to the conspicuous point chosen for his purpose,
he had acted from a conviction of the necessity of showing the enemy the treason of the soldier
had been detected; reserving to himself the determination of carrying the sentence into full
effect, or pardoning the condemned, as the event might warrant. Not one moment, meanwhile,
did he doubt the guilt of Halloway, whose description of the person of his enemy was, in itself,
to him, confirmatory evidence of his treason. It is doubtful whether he would, in any way,
have been influenced by the recommendation of the Court, had the first charges been substantiated;
but as there was nothing but conjecture to bear out these, and as the prisoner had been convicted
only on the ground of suffering Captain de Haldimar to quit the fort contrary to orders, he
felt he might possibly go too far in carrying the capital punishment into effect, in decided
opposition to the general feeling of the garrison,--both of officers and men.

When the shot was subsequently fired from the hut of the Canadian, and the daring rifleman
recognised as the same fearful individual who had gained access to his apartment the preceding
night, conviction of the guilt of Halloway came even deeper home to the mind of the governor. They took a while silently with
each other through, the way, however, the further they came into the country, poor and was swampy and
required the full attention of the motorman. The great, really beautiful forest of lowlands remained
unchanged, without care, but the Residents and owners of the same, the mosquitoes came forward
as well, and if they also were not very common and were held by the movement of driving already,
let they can be if the car occasionally for a moment stopped and the truck driver ascending
had to evacuate some broken-down one road out of the way, or the animals to a stopped Root hear
about out, and feel, while the delicate skin of the young lady slightly the sharp bite of the small animals
scharfsäftigen swelled.

This was the way her mind again turned in a little over the earthly and Miss Seebald of the car
began to guide their way, the length of it, the various settlements or ask "plantations" (as she called
it, which he did not understand in the beginning).

The boy was a simple simple "child of the forest," as Miss von Seebald soon enough found he did, in
fact, not much more than what the area of ​​its forest and land Little Rock was. However, he knew
the route well, every stump and root, any "clearing" every "called improvement" as the very
first branches, it was able exactly specify how much each "neighbor" split the day "Fenzriegel"
could, how much Johnny Bligh deer in the last "season" killed, and how many coons [7] in her last
crop (harvest) in the corn field with the dogs had caught or shot. The horses and cattle of
the neighbors he knew personally knew every stain on them to provide any fire, also showed her the
place as they drove past it, where in the last year of a young panther Fill strangled and eaten
almost too would have, had he not fortunately (though it too late to save it from strangling)
to come, and then went specially in his conversation to the German immigrants of, of which, he said,
a "heap" in recent years must have come across, because at the cash river he had seen two,
and to Little Rock would be a whole family came, the husband, wife and three or four children.
In Little Rock ever had a mass German who swarmed properly it - he knew only six or seven, and
Charley Fischer was the jolliest of all, and "a monstrous hand smart too!" - Extremely smart
and clever - and would have him the other day (three years) a very Western Reserve rotten cheese
suspended - which he does not take him very ill, but seemed rather pleased to know that he manage
to do that.

Only from the "Count Olnitzki he knew little or nothing to tell, his" old lady "[8] did not know
he had never seen her, and believed not that it much of the range (Actually pasture, but also
used by settlements) came out. Old as he Nitzky called him undaunted should, by the way a powerful
hand (very cleverly) to be with the rifle, and many deer and have already shot some bears. Now
he was far from "in The settlements come, "but he could still very well remember him, for he
was a big strong man and carried "the whole face full of hair."

But when the leader of their approach, no news could be about whose fate it was so dear, and it
made her so happy, after so long a separation again to see, so he was in so many different kind
of practical and infinitely good-natured. He broke her a Sassafrasbusch off, thus the now and
then to ward off mosquitoes coming to them, and held several times on particularly her a hat full of
juicy, sugar-sweet persimmon, the there were growing in mass, to seek and to bring, or to pick
wild grapes from some trees in heavy blue masses hanging down. The Muscadinebeeren, before their
frequent consumption of cold fever because he warned, had to taste it, and the long, almost
disgusting sweet Papaofrucht. How then further into the forest and the river from the first
lying settlements came off, he showed the foreigners here and there quickly spotted form a fleeting
deer, which stopped short when he heard the creaking of wheels, and the beautiful Head with
the odd curved antlers reflecting volatile in the bushes across the Jungle set, or the ugly
but ridiculous possum, the American marsupials, the actually belonging to Australia, only some
mistake here, created by nature seems as timid on the road, ran rapidly down or hanging vines
emporklomm, a suspected Risk of escape. Sometimes he even continued to her on the street itself
bear, wolf- Panther tracks and to show that here in their nocturnal excursions into the soft Floor-pressed,
and that at all All in his power, the young lady's long, somewhat monotonous forest path to
shorten as much as possible.

So they went all the way there, the road was hewn out wide, on a like
for the other place, but showed little track, and more hoofprints
almost more the tracks wild animals.

Now and then she passed a large settlement, and at noon were she even claimed at one place,
with three or four log cabins the proud name of a city. The people there, a single farmer with
his brother, who kept a small shop, were but not proud of this preference before the neighboring
clearings, cultivated their land more themselves and made new cultivation, not to build houses on it,
but corn hineinzupflanzen.

There, a frugal midday meal was taken, since almost all the farmers
in the western living forests, at least all to a main or countystraße,
to set up are strangers to lodge and dine.

Wirth's and inns where there are very few; ready money the people have very little in their
mutual traffic since then the Fremdebewirthen akin to a source of income to which they devote
themselves prefer the more than they have little more expenses in how a couple of beds with mattresses
and blankets produce. The old Western hospitality as it was in earlier times is customary,
this of course lost, a meal costs a quarter, to house a horse from a quarter to half a dollar,
depending on the area, the bed for the guest a "bit" and a quarter dollars, or camp with supper
and breakfast for a rider usually a dollar. That she might be home to free them does not occur,
but a poor devil really no money, and he tells them the same from the outset, before anything
has consumed and enjoyed, so it is rarely fail all Americans what he he would otherwise be
given against payment only.

In the forest itself, which is called from the road, where no hewn out of business travelers trodden
path leads, and where only the hunter and then loses, which is quite something different. The
Stroller divided as table and bed with his host and in the morning,
he asked really what he is guilty for it, the answer is, "the second
coming, stranger, for what your had, your war't welcome, dear God,
it was little enough that we could offer you, " is also probably the
woman added.

As little curious about the people here are also common, which drives up the passenger, where he comes
from, where he goes when they ask him sometimes in the course of the conversation afterwards,
we were struck here were the forest dwellers, a "lady" in the true sense of the word in a silk
dress and hat with gloves on the hands and rings on his fingers,
with a veil, and other "Fixin's" as it's called, to see alone in the
woods, and if they did not dare to Dame even ask about all the things
they might like to know of her, and giving them almost the heart pulled
the trigger of curiosity, they stole but also individually, where
Billy Jones's Man provided the horse to figure out what this strange
lady might have been able to such an adventurous journey to take alone.

Billy

Jones's husband did not know more than that the lady to a steamer Little Rock had come - that
saw itself ohnedieß of yourself - and anywhere to Old Farm Nitzkis in the bush there, north-east of
the grove of Oakland, was over, it would probably have a relative be of Old Nitzki or his wife.

The
ladies would be the way can save you the trouble, for Miss Seebald of them came meet at the
table half-way, told them that she wanted to visit her sister, they not seen in ten years,
and here, not far from Oakland Grove to Count Olnitzki was married, and asked himself now if
none of the women she recently perhaps have seen, and how she go.

No one knew - a man who lived up there but in the forest, was so called,
he was also married, but have never come here to them, at least had
never been to her house stopped.

Incidentally, it should be excellent country, where he lived - just a little swampy. -

"And how far it was still up there?"

"Ih well, not so far, all over a straight line, perhaps there would be little more than twelve
Miles can be English, but it led, because of an intervening swamp, no Get there directly, only
the hunters came into it sometimes, and it was great hunting ground. Who else was over, had
to Mores of Rose Farm, and from there led a fairly trodden Path across to the direction the old
man who owned the house here, said that he and believed to have also
heard that a Pole was over there, "an" improvement.

"

Mademoiselle Seebald do not understand that Count Olnitzki, but the
one from his farm lively movement of Little Rock, the capital, had
to keep so little known here is, or was there perhaps a different
point in the interior, where it sells its products?

"Ih well, yes it is possible," was the reply, "that he as comfortable or convenient for Batesville
on the White River would be to find even small steamer ran up. "

So it had to be one, probably he associated with Batesville, at least a significant City if they
had steam boat connection.

A lot of time to further explore their remained not more, for "Billy Jones's" well man had been
clamped, Rose Mores place yet to achieve dark; Mademoiselle Seebald inquired why, and paid
their bill, and few minutes later the carriage rattled again, now
to something better ways through the woods further and further north
up, to its destination.

"There is Oakland grove," the truck driver said suddenly, as if a small sandy Hill had gone up, and
over shimmering in the distance through the woods a few bright Fenz saw.

"Have we still a long way from here up to the city?"

»City? - What a city? "

»Oakland grove."

"Is not a city, and our farm and the forest here is so".

"And where is the nearest town?"

"The Batesville is, but still a nice piece of road to get there."

Soon after, she saw in the distance, go on a long, fairly well kept Fenz two by an open verandah
and interrelated, built of well-shod beams Log houses, but appearance as the whole environment
a degree of prosperity betrayed. A lot small, tightly constructed buildings it served for
stables, barns and corn forage soils, and chickens and geese around the house, like a pack
of well-fed dogs gave final Kleff the place a living, cozy, quiet
here in the middle of the forest.

The same slow sort of gave the interior of the house, and when Mademoiselle Seebald, still
in the Door in a dignified matron, whose entire exterior has an infinitely benevolent impression
on them, made brief introductory remarks by the Carter was welcomed, and in the house even two lovely
young girl found, although very simple in itself woven fabrics, but nothing was dressed less highly
decorated, and when they also all sorts the stranger did it to himself quite comfortable and
easy to make, she felt for the first Male released from that oppressive feeling that you all
afternoon, she knew how actually give themselves unaccountable reason, located in the heart.
The houses, they had all met here so far, looked so very poor and needy, the Man so sickly and
lacking even the most necessary, what is yet to human life was necessary. Here it was different,
and the small space is not really alone practical, but also applied with taste, with shady trees
and sitting at the door, and what they are yet sorely missed in all the other cabins, a small
Garden close by. So that was quite possible - the wilderness is not induced an almost Indian Life, people
could it be, if they had the drive and feel like it, comfortable and easy to make, and even
more so now that she could expect Olnitzkis that even the necessity to be related to the old homeland
across.

Also, the inside of the house was far different from the last farm, where they ate lunch. Instead
of the broken cane chairs and upturned barrels that had there the seats, found them here ordinary Meubles,
even a secretary and a small densely occupied Bücherbret. Large clean and covered with colorful blankets
and now an opened Mosquitos Network Beds filled in the back room, great iron wood columns with brass
buttons scrubbed were in the fireplace, next to the, also of brass, shovel and tongs hung, window with
neat Curtains were cut out even in the powerful tribes that formed the walls, and was soon out
with the whitest linen-covered table a lot of delicate Food.

The whole place, with the friendly behavior of its occupants who properly welcome against them
as they only learned why and how far they have come here heimelte, at her, and that was, albeit
with very modest requirements, a forest-dwelling, as they those previously have thought and
imagined - here in the quiet solitude of the forest's under the faint sound of the forest treetops,
from any external storms hit and touched lived a simple happy people - happy in its peace and
freedom, and the dream of a such an existence of cold selfish people in the old country often
laughed at and ridiculed, had finally become reality and reality was in here about them. With the blissful
feeling increased but also the longing for his sister, and she could wait even the morning, of
it should light up again on their way to rush into the arms of his beloved.

The distance was not so great, only about ten miles from here - a passing horse would have to
go through such a route in an hour, was Olnitzkis Farm (the word plantation she had finally
let fall) or Olnitzkis "improvement" as people also called and when they left in time, they
were able to place very well reached at noon and then. - As her heart so impatient - so happy
and yet knocked back so afraid, dear God, ten years is a long time - had ten years the sister
it is not seen in recent years, not even something of hers, how many a painful while you communicate
from home, to those that a child almost and of the happiness of first love intoxicated to leave.
The mother was two years ago died, and if Sidonie also get the sad news, was the first encounter
of the Siblings after the loss but still painful, and even had the joy of reunion . Turbid
But now continue with such sad thoughts, where as much of the joyful attending brought - her
brother was by his court awarded with honor and made their youngest sister of the bride of a
man she loved, her father, still hale and healthy, stood in front of his avocations as ever,
with only one desire, his child, his dear child, that he then left so reluctant to be once again
to see again. How did he balked at that time to give his consent to an alliance, which he alone
the great enthusiasm of the moment attributed, and he only finally agreed to be to make a
child's refusal may not yet unfortunate, as it, as he feared the connection would be. Now the
time was far away behind them. Sidonie had become happy, as all their letters so testified,
and if the enthusiasm the first young love in a quieter and quieter track the path opened so they
had but with no line we mention that it continued long to be out of the new, self-selected Life that
they regret the move to have done it from the arms of her family, the they pulled out of the
Fatherland.

Much unhappiness she had won - the oldest boy was her died in the fourth year, and in the last
letter she wrote to House - Two years ago, it seemed the youngest child, a girl, seriously
ill. But since, and after the death of the mother, no letter had
reached her home more, and only once was spoken message of them over
penetrated by a stranger who happened to be in the count Olnitzki
Little Rock said, and learn about this was that the women's total
well being and in her, but stay a little lonely heart feel happy.

Miraculously, however, also claimed Rose Mores not be able to her enough or to give details
as to the, but only a short distance away from them, living people. Olnitzki but sometimes came over
to them, yes, even had some earlier time in her house stayed, however, the woman is never
seen again by them.

"But she had other neighbors in their neighborhood?"

However, Jack Owen hardly lived a thousand steps away from her home on the bearlick ridge, and
Sam Houston, another farmer had, about a mile above the postoak »
hollow "established. - Both were married, and certainly wrong with
each other, and especially Jack Owens was a dear young woman braves
females.

Miraculously, they did "Neighbors" even if Olnitzkis had children,
and how much - one or two of them were died, but also penetrated only
as a rumor to them, because there is no certain ushered Way out to
them were not the people, so formed for each its sphere in their own
environment, neighboring lacking and looking after little about him.

But what was required of Amalie Seebald even now extensive reports, even where they are tomorrow
- could convince myself of everything with my own eyes - in a few hours. Just as she was to come
across it yet alarmed, the women consoled her, but on the arrival of the men who in any case
be for supper at home and ways and means they would find to do with their luggage across. Dear God,
this is nothing more than their duty to ensure that a single woman, so trustfully over here come
to them, was not left without help and assistance would, and Billy
Jones, the son of the old Rose More, or Mr. Rose would find himself
as even More Rath.

Barking and Pferdegestampfe announced the expected, which had been somewhere in the woods to
see a few cows out failure, even before nightfall on, and three riders held immediately afterwards
before Rose More's door, jumped out of the saddle, the bridle it with the Animals decreased,
on leaving their further supply a negro boy jumping induced, and soon entered the inner Fenz,
for coming home.

"This is the happy," cried Sarah, Mr. Rose More's youngest daughter, who in the door kicked the
father was to be welcomed, "this is Mr. Owen of bearlick ridge itself, with father and Bill,
the white council and is certainly too early in the morning back to his house. "

"Hello Miss Sarah," laughed the so called back-woodsman, who had understood
the words, and with his saddle on the left arm, his rifle in his right
hand, to the house came, "They were expecting me?"

"I do not, Mr. Owen," laughed the girl, "but a foreign lady who in
this house sits, and is longing you have gone fast.

"

"All weather," said the hunter, his saddle rapidly under the transitional
structure of the two houses legend and the long rifle leaning beside
- "a strange lady? it was the devil.

"

"Now the devil is not just Mr. Owen," said the matron, with a little criticism in the Tone
in which she repeated the word.

"Please excuse a thousand times Missis Rose More," the man said, blushing
slightly, by He held out his hand - "it started out as just me, you
know already, I mean it is not so bad.

"

There was a strong, male figure, the man in the ordinary costume of
the backwoods, in a leather hunting shirt with like leggings clothed,
on his feet he wore moccasins of the same substance, on the head but
an old worn-out, badly battered felt, and on the right side of his
ball bag, while on the left in the wide leather belt, the American
Bowie or long hunting knife stuck.

The hair was curly, his eyes blue and Honest expression of his face and held straight out, just
to the mouth and even finely cut lips was a little hard train, but just as courage and determination
could indicate, and the Western American, educated in the forest and all its complaints and
dangers of childhood are abandoned, is especially peculiar.

Jack Owen was in a word, a grand archetype of those strong, steely human race, the western jungle
of the Union will go through first as a hunter, and then with their boldly up far beyond the borders
of civilization advanced "colonize improvements," the Indians Bears and wrest her home, and only
armed with rifle and ax, in the shadow of the dense Wilderness to
create a home.

This race marks the transition from the red-skin to the white man; and how the wolf dog that
is half the wolf gender or belonging, no worser enemy known as just the wolf, the pioneer
hates nothing worse in the world than the one in which Footsteps but he came here, the red son
of the forests.

As these men, with the free, natural life around him, even just such manners have adopted, and
to give the same from others desiring and believing, as they are, had entered the room, they
walked toward the strange lady, she offered to Welcome friendly hands,
and then take their seats at the fire at which they departed their
moccasins, and drying aufhingen, was their first concern to women
or runaway report on the failure to be cows that seemed like it was
caught again, to pay.

The conversation now turned exclusively to cows, cattle and pigs, until supper, which the two
daughters of old Mrs. Rose More had prepared, however, and all parts of the range, or of grazing
ground, where one or the other piece act, were taken.
 (grinding his teeth with fury as he spoke) "as man never
hated man. That love, that hatred are unquenched--unquenchable. Before me I see at once the
image of her who, even in death, has lived enshrined in my heart, and the child of him who
is my bitterest foe. Clara de Haldimar, do you understand me now?"

"Almighty Providence! is there no one to save me?--can nothing touch your stubborn heart?"
exclaimed the affrighted girl; and she turned her swimming eyes on those of the warrior, in
appeal; but his glance caused her own to sink in confusion. "Ellen Halloway," she pursued,
after a moment's pause, and in the wild accents of despair, "if you are indeed the wife of
this man, as you say you are, oh! plead for me with him; and in the name of that kindness,
which I once extended to yourself, prevail on him to restore me to my father!"

"Ellen Halloway!--who calls Ellen Halloway?" said the wretched woman, who had again resumed
her slovenly meal on the rude couch, apparently without consciousness of the scene enacting
at her side. "I am not Ellen Halloway: they said so; but it is not true. My husband was Reginald
Morton: but he went for a soldier, and was killed; and I never saw him more."

"Reginald Morton! What mean you, woman?--What know you of Reginald Morton?" demanded Wacousta,
with frightful energy, as, leaning over the shrinking form of Clara, he violently grasped and
shook the shoulder of the unhappy maniac.

"Stop; do not hurt me, and I will tell you all, sir," she almost screamed. "Oh, sir, Reginald
Morton was my husband once; but he was kinder than you are. He did not look so fiercely at
me; nor did he pinch me so."

"What of him?--who was he?" furiously repeated Wacousta, as he again impatiently shook the
arm of the wretched Ellen. "Where did you know him?--Whence came he?"

"Nay, you must not be jealous of poor Reginald:" and, as she uttered these words in a softening
and conciliating tone, her eye was turned upon those of the warrior with a mingled expression
of fear and cunning. "But he was very good and very handsome, and generous; and we lived near
each other, and we loved each other at first sight. But his family were very proud, and they
quarrelled with him because he married me; and then we became very poor, and Reginald went
for a soldier, and--; but I forget the rest, it is so long ago." She pressed her hand to her
brow, and sank her head upon her chest.

"Ellen, woman, again I ask you where he came from? this Reginald Morton that you have named.
To what county did he belong?"

"Oh, we were both Cornish," she answered, with a vivacity singularly in contrast with her recent
low and monotonous tone; "but, as I said before, he was of a great family, and I only a poor
clergyman's daughter."

"Cornish!--Cornish, did you say?" fiercely repeated the dark Wacousta, while an expression
of loathing and disgust seemed for a moment to convulse his features; "then is it as I had
feared. One word more. Was the family seat called Morton Castle?"

"It was," unhesitatingly returned the poor woman, yet with the air of one wondering to hear
a name repeated, long forgotten even by herself. "It was a beautiful castle too, on a lovely
ridge of hills; and it commanded such a nice view of the sea, close to the little port of ----;
and the parsonage stood in such a sweet valley, close under the castle; and we were all so
happy." She paused, again put her hand to her brow, and pressed it with force, as if endeavouring
to pursue the chain of connection in her memory, but evidently without success.

"And your father's name was Clayton?" said the warrior, enquiringly; "Henry Clayton, if I recollect
aright?"

"Ha! who names my father?" shrieked the wretched woman. "Yes, sir, it was Clayton--Henry Clayton--the
kindest, the noblest of human beings. But the affliction of his child, and the persecutions
of the Morton family, broke his heart. He is dead, sir, and Reginald is dead too; and I am
a poor lone widow in the world, and have no one to love me." Here the tears coursed each other
rapidly down her faded cheek, although her eyes were staring and motionless.

"It is false!" vociferated the warrior, who, now he had gained all that was essential to the
elucidation of his doubts, quitted the shoulder he had continued to press with violence in
his nervous hand, and once more extended himself at his length; "in me you behold the uncle
of your husband. Yes, Ellen Clayton, you have been the wife of two Reginald Mortons. Both,"
he pursued with unutterable bitterness, while he again started up and shook his tomahawk menacingly
in the direction of the fort,--"both have been the victims of yon cold-blooded governor; but
the hour of our reckoning is at hand. Ellen," he fiercely added, "do you recollect the curse
you pronounced on the family of that haughty man, when he slaughtered your Reginald. By Heaven!
it shall be fulfilled; but first shall the love I have so long borne the mother be transferred
to the child."

Again he sought to encircle the waist of her whom, in the strong excitement of his rage, he
had momentarily quitted; but the unutterable disgust and horror produced in the mind of the
unhappy Clara lent an almost supernatural activity to her despair. She dexterously eluded his
grasp, gained her feet, and with tottering steps and outstretched arms darted through the opening
of the tent, and piteously exclaiming, "Save me! oh, for God's sake, save me!" sank exhausted,
and apparently lifeless, on the chest of the prisoner without.

To such of our readers as, deceived by the romantic nature of the attachment stated to have
been originally entertained by Sir Everard Valletort for the unseen sister of his friend, have
been led to expect a tale abounding in manifestations of its progress when the parties had
actually met, we at once announce disappointment. Neither the lover of amorous adventure, nor
the admirer of witty dialogue, should dive into these pages. Room for the exercise of the invention
might, it is true, be found; but ours is a tale of sad reality, and our heroes and heroines
figure under circumstances that would render wit a satire upon the understanding, and love
a reflection upon the heart. Within the bounds of probability have we, therefore, confined
ourselves.

What the feelings of the young Baronet must have been, from the first moment when he received
from the hands of the unfortunate Captain Baynton (who, although an officer of his own corps,
was personally a stranger to him,) that cherished sister of his friend, on whose ideal form
his excited imagination had so often latterly loved to linger, up to the present hour, we should
vainly attempt to paint. There are emotions of the heart, it would be mockery in the pen to
trace. From the instant of his first contributing to preserve her life, on that dreadful day
of blood, to that when the schooner fell into the hands of the savages, few words had passed
between them, and these had reference merely to the position in which they found themselves,
and whenever Sir Everard felt he could, without indelicacy or intrusion, render himself in
the slightest way serviceable to her. The very circumstances under which they had met, conduced
to the suppression, if not utter extinction, of all of passion attached to the sentiment with
which he had been inspired. A new feeling had quickened in his breast; and it was with emotions
more assimilated to friendship than to love that he now regarded the beautiful but sorrow-stricken
sister of his bosom friend. Still there was a softness, a purity, a delicacy and tenderness
in this new feeling, in which the influence of sex secretly though unacknowledgedly predominated;
and even while sensible it would have been a profanation of every thing most sacred and delicate
in nature to have admitted a thought of love within his breast at such a moment, he also felt
he could have entertained a voluptuous joy in making any sacrifice, even to the surrender of
life itself, provided the tranquillity of that gentle and suffering being could be by it ensured.

Clara, in her turn, had been in no condition to admit so exclusive a power as that of love
within her soul. She had, it is true, even amid the desolation of her shattered spirit, recognised
in the young officer the original of a portrait so frequently drawn by her brother, and dwelt
on by herself. She acknowledged, moreover, the fidelity of the painting: but however she might
have felt and acted under different circumstances, absorbed as was her heart, and paralysed
her imagination, by the harrowing scenes she had gone through, she, too, had room but for one
sentiment in her fainting soul, and that was friendship for the friend of her brother; on whom,
moreover, she bestowed that woman's gratitude, which could not fail to be awakened by a recollection
of the risks he had encountered, conjointly with Frederick, to save her from destruction. During
their passage across lake Huron, Sir Everard had usually taken his seat on the deck, at that
respectful distance which he conceived the delicacy of the position of the unfortunate cousins
demanded; but in such a manner that, while he seemed wholly abstracted from them, his eye had
more than once been detected by Clara fixed on hers, with an affectionateness of interest she
could not avoid repaying with a glance of recognition and approval. These, however, were the
only indications of regard that had passed between them.

If, however, a momentary and irrepressible flashing of that sentiment, which had, at an earlier
period, formed a portion of their imaginings, did occasionally steal over their hearts while
there was a prospect of reaching their friends in safety, all manifestation of its power was
again finally suppressed when the schooner fell into the hands of the savages. Become the immediate
prisoners of Wacousta, they had been surrendered to that ferocious chief to be dealt with as
he might think proper; and, on disembarking from the canoe in which their transit to the main
land had been descried that morning from the fort, had been separated from their equally unfortunate
and suffering companions. Captain de Haldimar, Madeline, and the Canadian, were delivered over
to the custody of several choice warriors of the tribe in which Wacousta was adopted; and,
bound hand and foot, were, at that moment, in the war tent of the fierce savage, which, as
Ponteac had once boasted to the governor, was every where hung around with human scalps, both
of men, of women, and of children. The object of this mysterious man, in removing Clara to
the spot we have described, was one well worthy of his ferocious nature. His vengeance had
already devoted her to destruction; and it was within view of the fort, which contained the
father whom he loathed, he had resolved his purpose should be accomplished. A refinement of
cruelty, such as could scarcely have been supposed to enter the breast even of such a remorseless
savage as himself, had caused him to convey to the same spot, him whom he rather suspected
than knew to be the lover of the young girl. It was with the view of harrowing up the soul
of one whom he had recognised as the officer who had disabled him on the night of the rencontre
on the bridge, that he had bound Sir Everard to the tree, whence, as we have already stated,
he was a compelled spectator of every thing that passed within the tent; and yet with that
free action of limb which only tended to tantalize him the more amid his unavailable efforts
to rid himself of his bonds,--a fact that proved not only the dire extent to which the revenge
of Wacousta could be carried, but the actual and gratuitous cruelty of his nature.

One must have been similarly circumstanced, to understand all the agony of the young man during
this odious scene, and particularly at the fierce and repeated declaration of the savage that
Clara should be his bride. More than once had he essayed to remove the ligatures which confined
his waist; but his unsuccessful attempts only drew an occasional smile of derision from his
enemy, as he glanced his eye rapidly towards him. Conscious at length of the inutility of efforts,
which, without benefiting her for whom they were principally prompted, rendered him in some
degree ridiculous even in his own eyes, the wretched Valletort desisted altogether, and with
his head sunk upon his chest, and his eyes closed, sought at least to shut out a scene which
blasted his sight, and harrowed up his very soul.

But when Clara, uttering her wild cry for protection, and rushing forth from the tent, sank
almost unconsciously in his embrace, a thrill of inexplicable joy ran through each awakened
fibre of his frame. Bending eagerly forward, he had extended his arms to receive her; and when
he felt her light and graceful form pressing upon his own as its last refuge--when he felt
her heart beating against his--when he saw her head drooping on his shoulder, in the wild recklessness
of despair,--even amid that scene of desolation and grief he could not help enfolding her in
tumultuous ecstasy to his breast. Every horrible danger was for an instant forgotten in the
soothing consciousness that he at length encircled the form of her, whom in many an hour of
solitude he had thus pictured, although under far different circumstances, reposing confidingly
on him. There was delight mingled with agony in his sensation of the wild throb of her bosom
against his own; and even while his soul fainted within him, as he reflected on the fate that
awaited her, he felt as if he could himself now die more happily.

Momentary, however, was the duration of this scene. Furious with anger at the evident disgust
of his victim, Wacousta no sooner saw her sink into the arms of her lover, than with that agility
for which he was remarkable he was again on his feet, and stood in the next instant at her
side. Uniting to the generous strength of his manhood all that was wrung from his mingled love
and despair, the officer clasped his hands round the waist of the drooping Clara; and with
clenched teeth, and feet firmly set, seemed resolved to defy every effort of the warrior to
remove her. Not a word was uttered on either side; but in the fierce smile that curled the
lip of the savage, there spoke a language even more terrible than the words that smile implied.
Sir Everard could not suppress an involuntary shudder; and when at length Wacousta, after a
short but violent struggle, succeeded in again securing and bearing off his prize, the wretchedness
of soul of the former was indescribable.

"You see 'tis vain to struggle against your destiny, Clara de Haldimar," sneered the warrior.
"Ours is but a rude nuptial couch, it is true; but the wife of an Indian chief must not expect
the luxuries of Europe in the heart of an American wilderness."

"Almighty Heaven! where am I?" exclaimed the wretched girl, again unclosing her eyes to all
the horror of her position; for again she lay at the side, and within the encircling arm, of
her enemy. "Oh, Sir Everard Valletort, I thought I was with you, and that you had saved me
from this monster. Where is my brother?--Where are Frederick and Madeline?--Why have they deserted
me?--Ah! my heart will break. I cannot endure this longer, and live."

"Clara, Miss de Haldimar," groaned Sir Everard, in a voice of searching agony; "could I lay
down my life for you, I would; but you see these bonds. Oh God! oh God! have pity on the innocent;
and for once incline the heart of yon fierce monster to the whisperings of mercy." As he uttered
the last sentence, he attempted to sink on his knees in supplication to Him he addressed, but
the tension of the cord prevented him; yet were his hands clasped, and his eyes upraised to
heaven, while his countenance beamed with an expression of fervent enthusiasm.

"Peace, babbler! or, by Heaven! that prayer shall be your last," vociferated Wacousta. "But
no," he pursued to himself, dropping at the same time the point of his upraised tomahawk; "these
are but the natural writhings of the crushed worm; and the longer protracted they are, the
more complete will be my vengeance." Then turning to the terrified girl,--"You ask, Clara de
Haldimar, where you are? In the tent of your mother's lover, I reply,--at the side of him who
once pressed her to his heart, even as I now press you, and with a fondness that was only equalled
by her own. Come, dear Clara," and his voice assumed a tone of tenderness that was even more
revolting than his natural ferocity, "let me woo you to the affection she once possessed. It
was a heart of fire in which her image stood enshrined,--it is a heart of fire still, and well
worthy of her child."

"Never, never!" shrieked the agonised girl. "Kill me, murder me, if you will; but oh! if you
have pity, pollute not my ear with the avowal of your detested love. But again I repeat, it
is false that my mother ever knew you. She never could have loved so fierce, so vindictive
a being as yourself."

"Ha! do you doubt me still?" sternly demanded the savage. Then drawing the shuddering girl
still closer to his vast chest,--"Come hither, Clara, while to convince you I unfold the sad
history of my life, and tell you more of your parents than you have ever known. When," he pursued
solemnly, "you have learnt the extent of my love for the one, and of my hatred for the other,
and the wrongs I have endured from both, you will no longer wonder at the spirit of mingled
love and vengeance that dictates my conduct towards yourself. Listen, girl," he continued fiercely,
"and judge whether mine are injuries to be tamely pardoned, when a whole life has been devoted
to the pursuit of the means of avenging them."

Irresistibly led by a desire to know what possible connection could have existed between her
parents and this singular and ferocious man, the wretched girl gave her passive assent. She
even hoped that, in the course of his narrative, some softening recollections would pass over
his mind, the effect of which might be to predispose him to mercy. Wacousta buried his face
for a few moments in his large hand, as if endeavouring to collect and concentrate the remembrances
of past years. His countenance, meanwhile, had undergone a change; for there was now a shade
of melancholy mixed with the fierceness of expression usually observable there. This, however,
was dispelled in the course of his narrative, and as various opposite passions were in turn
powerfully and severally developed.

CHAPTER VIII.

"It is now four and twenty years," commenced Wacousta, "since your father and myself first
met as subalterns in the regiment he now commands, when, unnatural to say, an intimacy suddenly
sprang up between us which, as it was then to our brother officers, has since been a source
of utter astonishment to myself. Unnatural, I repeat, for fire and ice are not more opposite
than were the elements of which our natures were composed. He, all coldness, prudence, obsequiousness,
and forethought. I, all enthusiasm, carelessness, impetuosity, and independence. Whether this
incongruous friendship--friendship! no, I will not so far sully the sacred name as thus to
term the unnatural union that subsisted between us;--whether this intimacy, then, sprang from
the adventitious circumstance of our being more frequently thrown together as officers of the
same company,--for we were both attached to the grenadiers,--or that my wild spirit was soothed
by the bland amenity of his manners, I know not. The latter, however, is not improbable; for
proud, and haughty, and dignified, as the colonel NOW is, such was not THEN the character of
the ensign; who seemed thrown out of one of Nature's supplest moulds, to fawn, and cringe,
and worm his way to favour by the wily speciousness of his manners. Oh God!" pursued Wacousta,
after a momentary pause, and striking his palm against his forehead, "that I ever should have
been the dupe of such a cold-blooded hypocrite!

"I have said our intimacy excited surprise among our brother officers. It did; for all understood
and read the character of your father, who was as much disliked and distrusted for the speciousness
of his false nature, as I was generally esteemed for the frankness and warmth of mine. No one
openly censured the evident preference I gave him in my friendship; but we were often sarcastically
termed the Pylades and Orestes of the regiment, until my heart was ready to leap into my throat
with impatience at the bitterness in which the taunt was conceived; and frequently in my presence
was allusion made to the blind folly of him, who should take a cold and slimy serpent to his
bosom only to feel its fangs darted into it at the moment when most fostered by its genial
heat. All, however, was in vain. On a nature like mine, innuendo was likely to produce an effect
directly opposite to that intended; and the more I found them inclined to be severe on him
I called my friend, the more marked became my preference. I even fancied that because I was
rich, generous, and heir to a title, their observations were prompted by jealousy of the influence
he possessed over me, and a desire to supplant him only for their interests' sake. Bitterly
have I been punished for the illiberality of such an opinion. Those to whom I principally allude
were the subalterns of the regiment, most of whom were nearly of our own age. One or two of
the junior captains were also of this number; but, by the elders (as we termed the seniors
of that rank) and field officers, Ensign de Haldimar was always regarded as a most prudent
and promising young officer.

"What conduced, in a great degree, to the establishment of our intimacy was the assistance
I always received from my brother subaltern in whatever related to my military duties. As the
lieutenant of the company, the more immediate responsibility attached to myself; but being
naturally of a careless habit, or perhaps considering all duty irksome to my impatient nature
that was not duty in the field, I was but too often guilty of neglecting it. On these occasions
my absence was ever carefully supplied by your father, who, in all the minutiae of regimental
economy, was surpassed by no other officer in the corps; so that credit was given to me, when,
at the ordinary inspections, the grenadiers were acknowledged to be the company the most perfect
in equipment and skilful in manoeuvre. Deeply, deeply," again mused Wacousta, "have these services
been repaid.

"As you have just learnt, Cornwall is the country of my birth. I was the eldest of the only
two surviving children of a large family; and, as heir to the baronetcy of the proud Mortons,
was looked up to by lord and vassal as the future perpetuator of the family name. My brother
had been designed for the army; but as this was a profession to which I had attached my inclinations,
the point was waved in my favour, and at the age of eighteen I first joined the ---- regiment,
then quartered in the Highlands of Scotland. During my boyhood I had ever accustomed myself
to athletic exercises, and loved to excite myself by encountering danger in its most terrific
forms. Often had I passed whole days in climbing the steep and precipitous crags which overhang
the sea in the neighbourhood of Morton Castle, ostensibly in the pursuit of the heron or the
seagull, but self-acknowledgedly for the mere pleasure of grappling with the difficulties they
opposed to me. Often, too, in the most terrific tempests, when sea and sky have met in one
black and threatening mass, and when the startled fishermen have in vain attempted to dissuade
me from my purpose, have I ventured, in sheer bravado, out of sight of land, and unaccompanied
by a human soul. Then, when wind and tide have been against me on my return, have I, with my
simple sculls alone, caused my faithful bark to leap through the foaming brine as though a
press of canvass had impelled her on. Oh, that this spirit of adventure had never grown with
my growth and strengthened with my strength!" sorrowfully added the warrior, again apostrophising
himself: "then had I never been the wretch I am.

"The wild daring by which my boyhood had been marked was again powerfully awakened by the bold
and romantic scenery of the Scottish Highlands; and as the regiment was at that time quartered
in a part of these mountainous districts, where, from the disturbed nature of the times, society
was difficult of attainment, many of the officers were driven from necessity, as I was from
choice, to indulge in the sports of the chase. On one occasion a party of four of us set out
early in the morning in pursuit of deer, numbers of which we knew were to be met with in the
mountainous tracts of Bute and Argyleshire. The course we happened to take lay through a succession
of dark deep glens, and over frowning rocks; the difficulties of access to which only stirred
up my dormant spirit of enterprise the more. We had continued in this course for many hours,
overcoming one difficulty only to be encountered by another, and yet without meeting a single
deer; when, at length, the faint blast of a horn was heard far above our heads in the distance,
and presently a noble stag was seen to ascend a ledge of rocks immediately in front of us.
To raise my gun to my shoulder and fire was the work of a moment, after which we all followed
in pursuit. On reaching the spot where the deer had first been seen, we observed traces of
blood, satisfying us he had been wounded; but the course taken in his flight was one that seemed
to defy every human effort to follow in. It was a narrow pointed ledge, ascending boldly towards
a huge cliff that projected frowningly from the extreme summit, and on either side lay a dark,
deep, and apparently fathomless ravine; to look even on which was sufficient to appal the stoutest
heart, and unnerve the steadiest brain. For me, however, long accustomed to dangers of the
sort, it had no terror. This was a position in which I had often wished once more to find myself
placed, and I felt buoyant and free as the deer itself I intended to pursue. In vain did my
companions (and your father was one) implore me to abandon a project so wild and hazardous.
I bounded forward, and they turned shuddering away, that their eyes might not witness the destruction
that awaited me. Meanwhile, balancing my long gun in my upraised hands, I trod the dangerous
path with a buoyancy and elasticity of limb, a lightness of heart, and a fearlessness of consequences,
that surprised even myself. Perhaps it was to the latter circumstance I owed my safety, for
a single doubt of my security might have impelled a movement that would not have failed to
have precipitated me into the yawning gulf below. I had proceeded in this manner about five
hundred yards, when I came to the termination of the ledge, from the equally narrow transverse
extremity of which branched out three others; the whole contributing to form a figure resembling
that of a trident. Pausing here for a moment, I applied the hunting horn, with which I was
provided, to my lips. This signal, announcing my safety, was speedily returned by my friends
below in a cheering and lively strain, that seemed to express at once surprise and satisfaction;
and inspirited by the sound, I prepared to follow up my perilous chase. Along the ledge I had
quitted I had remarked occasional traces where the stricken deer had passed; and the same blood-spots
now directed me at a point where, but for these, I must have been utterly at fault. The centre
of these new ridges, and the narrowest, was that taken by the animal, and on that I once more
renewed my pursuit. As I continued to advance I found the ascent became more precipitous, and
the difficulties opposed to my progress momentarily more multiplied. Still, nothing daunted,
I continued my course towards the main body of rock that now rose within a hundred yards. How
this was to be gained I knew not; for it shelved out abruptly from the extreme summit, overhanging
the abyss, and presenting an appearance which I cannot more properly render than by comparing
it to the sounding-boards placed over the pulpits of our English churches. Still I was resolved
to persevere to the close, and I but too unhappily succeeded." Again Wacousta paused. A tear
started to his eye, but this he impatiently brushed away with his swarthy hand.

"It was evident to me," he again resumed, "that there must be some opening through which the
deer had effected his escape to the precipitous height above; and I felt a wild and fearful
triumph in following him to his cover, over passes which it was my pleasure to think none of
the hardy mountaineers themselves would have dared to venture upon with impunity. I paused
not to consider of the difficulty of bearing away my prize, even if I succeeded in overtaking
it. At every step my excitement and determination became stronger, and I felt every fibre of
my frame to dilate, as when, in my more boyish days, I used to brave, in my gallant skiff,
the mingled fury of the warring elements of sea and storm. Suddenly, while my mind was intent
only on the dangers I used then to hold in such light estimation, I found my further progress
intercepted by a fissure in the crag. It was not the width of this opening that disconcerted
me, for it exceeded not ten feet; but I came upon it so unadvisedly, that, in attempting to
check my forward motion, I had nearly lost my equipoise, and fallen into the abyss that now
yawned before and on either side of me. To pause upon the danger, would, I felt, be to ensure
it. Summoning all my dexterity into a single bound, I cleared the chasm; and with one buskined
foot (for my hunting costume was strictly Highland) clung firmly to the ledge, while I secured
my balance with the other. At this point the rock became gradually broader, so that I now trod
the remainder of the rude path in perfect security, until I at length found myself close to
the vast mass of which these ledges were merely ramifications or veins: but still I could discover
no outlet by which the wounded deer could have escaped. Sun go With
you over there in the cafe inside that we have a glass for better acquaintance and better
time to drink. "

Theobald, however, had nothing, he took himself a little excitement, the depressing Experience
of working against something this morning, and Mr. Heindel ordered for the purpose same as the hall
of the so-called coffee shops, where they were almost exclusively
spirits held for sale, entered, a bottle of champagne.

It was Theobald, who had a lot of honor in it, unpleasant, from one so utterly foreign Ireland
man to have the same tract of champagne, yet he already had so much of American Life seen that
he knew that it would have been a discourtesy to someone with the one of him prompted for an
Schenk House has entered, not to drink. Likewise, always paid the, Calls of the drinks for themselves
or for as many like to drink with him.

The only thing he to do was left was to revangiren at the next encounter - but even here genirte
him the champagne.

In the matter, however, did not change anything more for now, the
bottle was placed and had be drunk, and Theobald, even in some excitement
about what he up to now of American Life, from his point of view seen,
poured, one with a certain complacency Glass by one of the fiery potion
down.

His new acquaintance was a pleasure to himself, however, and moved to the United States of matter,
of which he designed the poor young poet, a picture that this anxious and alarmed was to courage.
His description after, and he claimed the country to know through and through, was one half of the
inhabitants from predators, and the other from rogues who do not just like the common mosquitoes
of the poor immigrants attacked, and they aussögen as long as they still bear a drop of blood in
himself, but also when they're done with those would be attacked themselves and each other
auffräßen. There were no laws here, the jury Courts were a sham because, and those who ran them
in his fists, from the very come lost - the German court proceedings against that gold was the
scum of humanity. There was corruption here, to the extreme, with himself as a shining, with
feet trodden example stood by just for the sole reason not brilliant and its Skills appropriate position
gained, because he scorned, held it beneath his dignity; spend a single dollar for such a
purpose. And even the farmers were badly turn, despite the lying reports, America-friendly, that is democratic,
republican red Newspapers in Germany sowed it. If the "sheep heads were" in Germany So want
to work the way they had to work here, they would - in his opinion - also to 'what do have,
but now that they would be forced to stimulate the lazy bones, just to keep from starving, they
would do at a time as if they were engraved the cataract, and they would have found the promised
land - it would hum heads when the Lüneburg Heath or some other untapped decent spot in Germany
as in attack supposing they could also set up farms on it and then instead of this bird to
be free, under laws happy, living under a paternal government to caring for them.

Mr. Heindel was so into it spoken in poison and bitterness that he was the rest the bottle into
his glass, clapped, and that emptied onto a train, then got up and its Hat felt moving in the
pocket to pay for the bottle, because of him the barkeeper had already approached friendly. 

"Yes
my young friend," he said while on Theobald again looking down on
to his eye his knees and stuck this was also squint down there - "Yes
my young Friend, especially before you take this cursed in eight Americans,
and if you It may allow some, if you do your average, half-way only,
so you embark again as soon you can entered Germany, rather dry Brodrinde
there, with patriotic Spring or well water, as champagne here in this
godforsaken country - Damn it, " he interrupted himself while feeling
in all his pockets, "now I have my wallet to Home leave on my desk
- this is me but an uncommonly fatal - oh dear Friend, please put
this bottle yet again by this afternoon made for me, - you ?

Logiren "-

"The White House ash diet," said this surprised and somewhat embarrassed.

"Very nice - I know the white ash boarding-house, here we are half the neighbors - I live barely
three doors away from you, the better - and now what I wanted to tell you yet "- He had previously
taken the same again taken in fitting the west button - Insert " Your manuscript in the oven
- "

"But my dear sir -"

"Put your manuscript in the oven," cried Dr. Heindel some excitement "The rags here are not
worth that they get a proper German original paper - They get the bad guy - they believe that
they do a writer a favor if they have their translators work only
in a manuscript, as they are used almost exclusively been Printed set.

And then you ship up - you are embarking so quickly you can "- he
was with his eyes back down to the vest in the air. - "America is
an excellent country for tobacco and cotton, for mosquitoes and alligators,
for robbers and thieves, but for an educated man, for someone who
knows what he and his national honor guilty as a German citizen, America
will fit just as good as - as the button here, " he added, as he had
turned the unfortunate piece Perlmutter finally really "To the trash
heap because" - and with the words he hurled before Theobald reach
for it could, or had, in fact, any idea what the exalted man wanted
to do so, Button said the real one, not far from the door lie dust-heap
in the street; Theobald's hand but then quickly moving and shaking
kind, he called him too, "Good Morning dear friend - good morning
- I come today 'afternoon over to you, the little thing to do with
you, "and immediately disappeared around the next corner.

"But my button," said Mr. Theobald, and was hastening to the rubbish heap, his property wiederzusuchen
than he was of the way and the waiter kindly said:

"Not true, you pay for the bottle?"

Theobald had a vague idea of ​​what the young man in shirt sleeves, with the English Title said nodding,
therefore, in all embarrassed his head and said yes and had to really the last two and a half
dollars for the champagne interpret "as his new somewhat ambiguous friend had meant.

When he does, if not to his own, but the satisfaction of the bartender's settled, He also went
to the door, to look after its closure, but had barely half a minute around the world since searched,
when six or eight people gathered around him and also in anticipation of some significant find,
searched around. All passers-by stopped now stand and urged to him, and Theobald, if he did not want
to cause a road ramp, had to draw back quickly and the button - spoiled
the half-dozen was shameful - his fate.

Sixth chapter

The fire man.

It was night, and the "Back Woods Queen snorted up the stream.

The boat had recently Time, the northern boundary line of Louisiana behind him, and on the left
bank of the river, , Mississippi wood taken. It might be over elf clock, and the firemen and
Deck hands of the "guard dogs" (from 12-4), which was disturbed from her brief sleep, the firing
with to take on board, want to resign because of the half hour, no more, and sat and were now
grouped in front of the colorful pots on there carelessly thrown cordwood, the latter have come
on board, the only way here was poured without order, equal to to be fired. Before the boilers
in which the mighty doors were closed and the long logs, about this,
were pushed through small flap attached to, were the firemen who had
their watch 8:00 to 12:00, red hot with the below Rakes in the soot-blackened
hands, and rummaged through the flaming logs and into one another,
that they were fresh back room into throwing up as food for the glow.

In the midst of the group was a huge tin can, which probably half a bucket Coffee might take,
besides a bulging Kruke filled with whiskey, and one of the people had just come from the bow
in front, where half a dozen huge sugar barrels that are no longer in the room went free were
on deck, and brought a large Blechschaale fully brought sugar, which he with a split reed pieces
from the great, the fresh air because it fitted herausgepurrt had holes of the barrels.

It was perhaps a Diess twenty-three years old wonderfully handsome young fellow, with a slight
dark mustache on his upper lip, and long as silk, almost girlish Hair, nor face, where it was
covered with soot marks not, tender and white, and the long Eyelash overshadowed a pair of dark,
but bold and decisive round sparkling eyes, which now particularly shone by its own living
fire.

"Hey Wolf, what you bring," he said George Donner counter, laughing - "rained's porridge outside?
"

"Mush not," laughed the young man, "but sugar! Weather again, we are but this Enormous amount
good material not lead up the Mississippi without at least as many inches of it to raise than
we need in our whiskey, come forth thunder, take one of the small
Blechschaalen there, I want us once again concoct a real fire man
drink.

"

"By Golly, 'laughed one of the other firemen, a negro, who with two other compatriots least
the same color but little or comrades from the Larbordseite of the boat, the six firemen had a
watch heitzte, "what the Bukras [13] because this stuff together
chatting, no cow is d'wisely get out.

"

"But what is poured into each other because we understand the rest," smiled the other. - "Oh
Jimminy that smells good. "

The young German had, however, has benefited the goblet filled half
full whiskey, then coffee wanted to keep this cast, almost as much
as the vessel, and threw well, with the cleaved Tube with which he
stirs the mixture properly into sugar to make it sweet.

"So," he said when he first tasted it slowly, and then did a capable train, "the will be good
- like fire and drives the heat here on his way out of the boilers
the body.

As long as we have, we need not fear getting sick. "

"Is it a strange life here on board," said George, who is also a capable That train, and went back
to the boilers, the logs, can rest only a few minutes, aufzuschüren fresh again, "Good God,
when you consider how we used to at home were to exist, and now compares
to life Diess - and that to America, "he continued slowly added, shaking
his head.

"I feel better?"

Wolf laughed, the one with George Donner, three blacks and an Irishman and had the same watch,
while Carlsberg also with three blacks, one American and a Frenchman fired - (the third guard,
which came at four in the series, was the same to the wood went back to wearing Coye) "it's me
any better? - If you my story knew, George, would you shake more than once the head of the
madness that is me for example, driven here by sea.

"

"Dear God, it is the story of thousands of us" said George - "You see there the young lads in
who has since hardly thrown on the logs, and already so asleep and gently sweet, as if he would be
in the softest bed, which is a German deserter, the soldiers wanted to bring back from the
ship, and the lower tax man, we know not even like, had hidden in
such a skillful way that it can not find the Policey could, and had
to give him.

Now he's working hard now to enter into life, and who know if he is not lugging around a few years,
instead of the musket in Germany, where founded his own hearth. I myself - who I sung at the
cradle that I once here on the Mississippi, after I studied in Germany, the boiler of a steamboat, with
Negroes and mulattoes Heitzer together should, and yet I'm horny by that, and have found yet even
such a happy, least rewarding employment. If Rath time comes, and only once entirely of the
English language abilities, is found then something else better for us. "

"This is all very well and good," laughed Wolf, "but not nearly as romantic or - toll if you
want, as my own fate, it might mean very well with me, the I'm gone in the true sense of the word through
their fingers. "

"The romanticism of our current employment but only a very small part" Donner said, smiling.

"Yes
and no," cried wolf, his straw hat on the wood and his dark curly
hair with a rapid Movement of the head from the forehead throwing,
"I also regard it as a means to an end, and must sound so prosaic
that may make money here.

"

"There is the romance been to hell," said George.

"And yet not cried wolf," so if I would do it live, but my father
is rich.

"

"Then of course I do not understand why you are here in the lowest
strata of society hanging around in this way, "said George," but certainly
not for pleasure.

"

"Would not least a wonderful taste," laughed the young man, "but you knew my story, would you agree with
me. "

"They are certainly a good family," said George.

"My friends in Germany - bah, friends, the word is too good for them - my friend in Germany would
not laugh, however, both turn up their noses as if the only Son of the Earl of Mount here as a
fireman on a steam boat, with Negroes from a bowl eat, stir in a
fire would see!

"

"But what in God's name since she has driven to this desperate decision?"

"Love," laughed the young man, his re-ignite moving, the little door or flap opening, and with
the long irons, the logs by touching each other - "the love, George, and the thing is incredibly
simple and touching. I loved and love a middle-class girls, my father, nor a genuine Pomeranian
Count of old school threatened to disinherit me to if not the girl I gave up, and I am now working
to prove it to him that a count the mountains are not left behind treasures need to establish for
himself a suitable hearth. In Germany, I would not have been possible here to offer to the view.
Even a year I am now working like a slave - but only a very small capital zusammenzuhaben;
with hard work alone is no one here will be able to earn quick money, the Speculation has to help
him, and this will therefore be the last trip I on a steam boat do, then I go to the western
United States in the Indian Territory whose conditions I have already reconnoitred, and catch a
pig trade at. Do not laugh, the business, if operated properly, excellent, and when I was seven
Years, as Jacob would have to serve his Rachel, I have put my head
on it, and set through him - or go over to reason.

"

"And your father?"

"When the Son of him more at heart than his shield, he would not pull me . Let '

"And you have driven all year round in such a life already?" George asked him in astonishment.

"God
forbid," cried wolf, new logs and moving through the narrow opening in the inner, glowing space
pushing - "Good heavens, what I did not have all driven since I'm in America. Newspaper delivery
was my first business in order not to starve, but rentirte the bad and repugnant to me, a mass of
things because of the bells and whistles hung, then I got wood bats on the Mississippi, even that
was not bad, but I got tired, then went back into the city and was broker. In this case but
I felt the Poor my English and went to the woods, hunting with me to earn money. That was the worst
Speculation, where it was wild, venison was not much but skin and where to shoot nothing more
was, I missed weeks is often in vain. Since the yellow fever broke out in New Orleans, all fled
from there and this seemed the ideal place to quickly get a small sum and my plan that I conceived
as a hunter in western Arkansas to put up, into the plant. Soon I saw that I am not mistaken
- by living among corpses and graves of a time I still makes the blood clot in the veins when I think
back on it, reached I but my purpose and earned gold. Workers were not to be acquired almost everything,
and the few who from necessity or indifference defied the disease, were showered with money.
Next to me while my comrades, fellows were of all colors and nations, like flies, I myself was,
thanks to my good nature, or if you want from that unexplored nature protected, healthy and strong.
But now the time in New Orleans is over, the fever has His last victim for this year called for
workers to flow as soon they have a myriad of steamboats down the stream, or may run across
Europe, in regular troops there, and I myself am now looking forward to go in the booth to another,
better life. I would ride as a passenger can, but it is a peculiar charm that I never knew
before, is to a small, self-earned capital is not unnecessarily reduce again, but to increase
more, so stoking 'I then go up to St. Louis, then leave the boat, and start my trade, which leaves
me a free sumptuous hunter's life out there. Be You give me now that
can also be in this profession in such a way romance?

"

"In the profession but why not, sir - I do not really now what to call you intended "- to George
interrupted, smiling.

»Wolf, by my first name," the young man exclaimed quickly, "things are not fit for poker and
the surroundings here, I've earned the title once again, I may wear it here he sounds like
mockery. "

"Forward boys, forward," cried the engineer's voice, according to
the boiler around the front had come to monitor the Heitz.

"Is not there like a sleeping caps, and let me the fire go out, even the plague, it looks
downright black from under the boilers. "

"Not everything goes into Massa," he laughed, contrary to a negro, "hahaha at Golly, if we need
more fire, we blow the sweet thing from a boat into the air! "

"She faded to hell," said the engineer, "but, give her hell - damn my eyes, if I do not want
to have the boiler still red hot - for boys, too, that we make from the site come, the old
rotten boat crawls up the country so the only way! "

"All weather" said Albert, as the man had gone back to the machine, "the boy seems itself to be
"red hot, as he calls it, and the whiskey more than just convenient have granted, and if he does
not just stupid pranks. "

"Ah bah," said Wolf, "he is always on his guard, but otherwise a good guy, and ensures that
his firemen not also suffer thirst - he knows best how the does -
Hey Scipio, so you pour the whiskey into it as if the water would
be - let even 'in what Kruke the company.

"

"Enough Wulfy, enough," laughed the black, the almost filled shell, the abundant half Bottle might
hold the strong potion, emptying a train, "and others may watch again care of themselves - Diess
child does "pointing to his own stomach,"'s exactly the same. "

The mate or mate rose at this moment the small steep staircase from
the boiler deck down, went to the front of the hanging bell, and struck
out upon the ship, eight bells (12 clock).

"Feierabend" cried wolf his poker Taking up the space under the boilers,
as the Custom is to be filled by the retreating guard, once again
fresh.

"That's right boys, that's right," they nodded back next engineer Applause to enter on the "stand
guard" and remained close to the countryside - they just passed a
the larger islands in the middle of Mississippi - over pointed - "hurray
how to do that; Now we shall once one of the other rascally boats
try to comply.

Fires boys can fires that warm the others watch the lazy bones when
it comes to it.

"

"So - back to eight hours of rest," said Wolf, throwing down his poker, "now can a pleasure
to make our fellow - hello Berger? - Already awake? - As the Sleepy boy looks - "

"Oh - I said this, who had used the short time still on the rough wooden half to sleep an hour,
as he slowly stretched and stretched - "this is a life, but - The devil - I had a terrible
dream, as I cursed as to the sharp, angular wood was.

"

"In the short term?" Cried wolf.

"I dreamed," said the young lad, along with a shudder in himself there
- "the red collar had brought me in Bremerhaven from the ship, I would
be in there in the fortress on sharp slats and should run the gauntlet
at daybreak.

As the bell rang there, the door creaked and - ha "- he shook with fear and horror at the
thought -" the executioner came come to pick me up - thank God it was only a dream. "

"Thick blood, mate," laughed Wolf - is "there's coffee and whiskey - take a sip, you will do
well. Now good watch! - Drink but I'd like to once again - you have the water bucket there,
George? "

"Here he is," said this - "You wait, I move it up yourself - am thirsty, too"

Carl Berger had just taken up the poker, to look after the fire, while the two Young people
on the guards came out, pull up a bucket of water as a wild shrill cry rang out from the deck:

"Doors
to - for God's sake - fire!"

The firemen went up and listened, the command is not the same conceptual,
on as a glaring and blaring booming blow up the boat rocked in the
keel. Boiling hot Steam filled the same time a portion of the lower
rooms, while a horrified and George Wolf white hissing jet see overshoot
to the rubble and beams, as described by the Eruption of a volcano
ejected, followed. A moment of dead silence followed similar this
bang, but the next moment the ejected pieces struck the water down,
while people wailing voices out loud in all directions.

"The shells
are cracked," rang the shrill lament about the flood and those who
burst through the Doors hurled burning wood logs only increased the
confusion.

In this first moment was also, except the seriously wounded,
yet no one aware of what disaster it would threaten the most, whether
the boat is sinking or on fire or a second Blow it all torn apart
perhaps would send into eternity - a step could well this one hinsehn
right, or even the next neighbor to recognize, so completed thick
white hissing smoke throughout the area was like a dense, impenetrable
veil on the boat. With a candour and unreservedness that spring alone from unsophisticated
manners and an untainted heart, she admitted, that the instant she beheld me, she felt she
had found the being her fancy had been so long tutored to linger on, and her heart to love.
She was sure I was come to be her husband (for she had understood from her aged attendant that
a man who loved a woman wished to be her husband); and she was glad her pet stag had been wounded,
since it had been the means of procuring her such happiness. She was not cruel enough to take
pleasure in the sufferings of the poor animal; for she would nurse it, and it would soon be
well again; but she could not help rejoicing in its disaster, since that circumstance had been
the cause of my finding her out, and loving her even as she loved me. And all this was said
with her head reclining on my chest, and her beautiful countenance irradiated with a glow that
had something divine in the simplicity of purpose it expressed.

"On my demanding to know whether it was not her face I had seen at the opening in the cliff,
she replied that it was. Her stag often played the truant, and passed whole hours away from
her, rambling beyond the precincts of the solitude that contained its mistress; but no sooner
was the small silver bugle, which she wore across her shoulder, applied to her lips, than 'Fidelity'
(thus she had named him) was certain to obey the call, and to come bounding up the line of
cliff to the main rock, into which it effected its entrance at a point that had escaped my
notice. It was her bugle I had heard in the course of my pursuit of the animal; and, from the
aperture through which I had effected my entrance, she had looked out to see who was the audacious
hunter she had previously observed threading a passage, along which her stag itself never appeared
without exciting terror in her bosom. The first glimpse she had caught of my form was at the
moment when, after having sounded my own bugle, I cleared the chasm; and this was a leap she
had so often trembled to see taken by 'Fidelity,' that she turned away and shuddered when she
saw it fearlessly adventured on by a human being. A feeling of curiosity had afterwards induced
her to return and see if the bold hunter had cleared the gulf, or perished in his mad attempt;
but when she looked outward from the highest pinnacle of her rocky prison, she could discover
no traces of him whatever. It then occurred to her, that, if successful in his leap, his progress
must have been finally arrested by the impassable rock that terminated the ridge; in which
case she might perchance obtain a nearer sight of his person. With this view she had removed
the bushes enshrouding the aperture; and, bending low to the earth, thrust her head partially
through it. Scarcely had she done so, however, when she beheld me immediately, though far beneath
her, with my back reposing against the rock, and my eyes apparently fixed on hers.

"Filled with a variety of opposite sentiments, among which unfeigned alarm was predominant,
she had instantaneously removed her head; and, closing the aperture as noiselessly as possible,
returned to the moss-covered seat on which I had first surprised her; where, while she applied
dressings of herbs to the wound of her favourite, she suffered her mind to ruminate on the
singularity of the appearance of a man so immediately in the vicinity of their retreat. The
supposed impracticability of the ascent I had accomplished, satisfied, even while (as she admitted)
it disappointed her. I must of necessity retrace my way over the dangerous ridge. Great, therefore,
was her surprise, when, after having been attracted by the rustling noise of the bushes over
the aperture, she presently saw the figure of the same hunter emerge from the abyss it overhung.
Terror had winged her flight; but it was terror mingled with a delicious emotion entirely new
to her. It was that emotion, momentarily increasing in power, that induced her to pause, look
back, hesitate in her course, and finally be won, by my supplicating manner, to return and
bless me with her presence.

"Two long and delicious hours," pursued Wacousta, after another painful pause of some moments,
"did we pass in this manner; exchanging thought, and speech, and heart, as if the term of our
acquaintance had been coeval with the first dawn of our intellectual life; when suddenly a
small silver toned bell was heard from the direction of the house, hid from the spot--on which
we sat by the luxuriant foliage of an intervening laburnum. This sound seemed to dissipate
the dreamy calm that had wrapped the soul of your mother into forgetfulness. She started suddenly
up, and bade me, if I loved her, begone; as that bell announced her required attendance on
her father, who, now awakened from the mid-day slumber in which he ever indulged, was about
to take his accustomed walk around the grounds; which was little else, in fact, than a close
inspection of the walls of his natural castle. I rose to obey her; our eyes met, and she threw
herself into my extended arms. We whispered anew our vows of eternal love. She called me her
husband, and I pronounced the endearing name of wife. A burning kiss sealed the compact; and,
on her archly observing that the sleep of her father continued about two hours at noon, and
that the old woman and her daughter were always occupied within doors, I promised to repeat
my visit every second day until she finally quitted her retreat to be my own for life. Again
the bell was rung; and this time with a violence that indicated impatience of delay. I tore
myself from her arms, darted to the aperture, and kissing my hand in reply to the graceful
waving of her scarf as she half turned in her own flight, sunk finally from her view; and at
length, after making the same efforts, and mastering the same obstacles that had marked and
opposed my advance, once more found myself at the point whence I had set out in pursuit of
the wounded deer.

"Many were the congratulations I received from my companions, whom I found waiting my return.
They had endured the three hours of my absence with intolerable anxiety and alarm; until, almost
despairing of beholding me again, they had resolved on going back without me. They said they
had repeatedly sounded their horns; but meeting with no answer from mine, had been compelled
to infer either that I had strayed to a point whence return to them was impracticable, or that
I must have perished in the abyss. I readily gave in to the former idea; stating I had been
led by the traces of the wounded deer to a considerable distance, and over passes which it
had proved a work of time and difficulty to surmount, yet without securing my spoil. All this
time there was a glow of animation on my cheek, and a buoyancy of spirit in my speech, that
accorded ill, the first, with the fatigue one might have been supposed to experience in so
perilous a chase; the second, with the disappointment attending its result. Your father, ever
cool and quick of penetration, was the first to observe this; and when he significantly remarked,
that, to judge from my satisfied countenance, my time had been devoted to the pursuit of more
interesting game, I felt for a moment as if he was actually master of my secret, and was sensible
my features underwent a change. I, however, parried the attack, by replying indifferently,
that if he should have the hardihood to encounter the same dangers, he would, if successful,
require no other prompter than the joy of self-preservation to lend the same glow of satisfaction
to his own features. Nothing further was said on the subject; but conversing on indifferent
topics, we again threaded the mazes of rock and underwood we had passed at an early hour, and
finally gained the town in which we were quartered.

"During dinner, as on our way home, although my voice occasionally mixed with the voices of
my companions, my heart was far away, and full of the wild but innocent happiness in which
it had luxuriated. At length, the more freely to indulge in the recollection, I stole at an
early hour from the mess-room, and repaired to my own apartments. In the course of the morning,
I had hastily sketched an outline of your mother's features in pencil, with a view to assist
me in the design of a miniature I purposed painting from memory. This was an amusement of which
I was extremely and in which I had attained considerable excellence; being enabled, from memory
alone, to give a most correct representation of any object that particularly fixed my attention.
She had declared utter ignorance of the art herself, her father having studiously avoided instructing
her in it from some unexplained motive; yet as she expressed the most unbounded admiration
of those who possessed it, it was my intention to surprise her with a highly finished likeness
of herself at my next visit. With this view I now set to work; and made such progress, that
before I retired to rest I had completed all but the finishing touches, to which I purposed
devoting a leisure hour or two by daylight on the morrow.

"While occupied the second day in its completion, it occurred to me I was in orders for duty
on the following, which was that of my promised visit to the oasis; and I despatched my servant
with my compliments to your father, and a request that he would be so obliging as to take my
guard for me on the morrow, and I would perform his duty when next his name appeared on the
roster. Some time afterwards I heard the door of the room in which I sat open, and some one
enter. Presuming it to be my servant, returned from the execution of the message with which
he had just been charged, I paid no attention to the circumstance; but finding, presently,
he did not speak, I turned round with a view of demanding what answer he had brought. To my
surprise, however, I beheld not my servant, but your father. He was standing looking over my
shoulder at the work on which I was engaged; and notwithstanding in the instant he resumed
the cold, quiet, smirking look that usually distinguished him, I thought I could trace the
evidence of some deep emotion which my action had suddenly dispelled. He apologised for his
intrusion, although we were on those terms that rendered apology unnecessary, but said he had
just received my message, and preferred coming in person to assure me how happy he should feel
to take my duty, or to render me any other service in his power. I thought he laid unusual
emphasis on the last sentence; yet I thanked him warmly, stating that the only service I should
now exact of him would be to take my guard, as I was compelled to be absent nearly the whole
of the following morning. He observed, with a smile, he hoped I was not going to venture my
neck on those dangerous precipices a second time, after the narrow escape I had had on the
preceding day. As he spoke, I thought his eye met mine with a sly yet scrutinizing glance;
and, not wishing to reply immediately to his question, I asked him what he thought of the work
with which I was endeavouring to beguile an idle hour. He took it up, and I watched the expression
of his handsome countenance with the anxiety of a lover who wishes that all should think his
mistress beautiful as he does himself. It betrayed a very indefinite sort of admiration; and
yet it struck me there was an eagerness in his dilating eye that contrasted strongly with the
calm and unconcern of his other features. At length I asked him, laughingly, what he thought
of my Cornish cousin. He replied, cautiously enough, that since it was the likeness of a cousin,
and he dwelt emphatically on the word, he could not fail to admire it. Candour, however, compelled
him to admit, that had I not declared the original to be one so closely connected with me,
he should have said the talent of so perfect an artist might have been better employed. Whatever,
however, his opinion of the lady might be, there could be no question that the painting was
exquisite; yet, he confessed, he could not but be struck with the singularity of the fact of
a Cornish girl appearing in the full costume of a female Highlander. This, I replied, was mere
matter of fancy and association, arising from my having been so much latterly in the habit
of seeing that dress principally worn. He smiled one of his then damnable soft smiles of assent,
and here the conversation terminated, and he left me.

"The next day saw me again at the side of your mother, who received me with the same artless
demonstrations of affection. There was a mellowed softness in her countenance, and a tender
languor in her eye, I had not remarked the preceding day. Then there was more of the vivacity
and playfulness of the young girl; now, more of the deep fervour and the composed serenity
of the thoughtful woman. This change was too consonant to my taste--too flattering to my self-love--not
to be rejoiced in; and as I pressed her yielding form in silent rapture to my own, I more than
ever felt she was indeed the being for whom my glowing heart had so long yearned. After the
first full and unreserved interchange of our souls' best feelings, our conversation turned
upon lighter topics; and I took an opportunity to produce the fruit of my application since
we had parted. Never shall I forget the surprise and delight that animated her beautiful countenance
when first she gazed upon the miniature. The likeness was perfect, even to the minutest shading
of her costume; and so forcibly and even childishly did this strike her, that it was with difficulty
I could persuade her she was not gazing on some peculiar description of mirror that reflected
back her living image. She expressed a strong desire to retain it; and to this I readily assented:
stipulating only to retain it until my next visit, in order that I might take an exact copy
for myself. With a look of the fondest love, accompanied by a pressure on mine of lips that
distilled dewy fragrance where they rested, she thanked me for a gift which she said would
remind her, in absence, of the fidelity with which her features had been engraven on my heart.
She admitted, moreover, with a sweet blush, that she herself had not been idle. Although her
pencil could not call up my image in the same manner, her pen had better repaid her exertions;
and, in return for the portrait, she would give me a letter she had written to beguile her
loneliness on the preceding day. As she spoke she drew a sealed packet from the bosom of her
dress, and placing it in my hand, desired me not to read it until I had returned to my home.
But there was an expression of sweet confusion in her lovely countenance, and a trepidation
in her manner, that, half disclosing the truth, rendered me utterly impatient of the delay
imposed; and eagerly breaking the seal, I devoured rather than read its contents.

"Accursed madness of recollection!" pursued Wacousta, again striking his brow violently with
his hand,--"why is it that I ever feel thus unmanned while recurring to those letters? Oh!
Clara de Haldimar, never did woman pen to man such declarations of tenderness and attachment
as that too dear but faithless letter of your mother contained. Words of fire, emanating from
the guilelessness of innocence, glowed in every line; and yet every sentence breathed an utter
unconsciousness of the effect those words were likely to produce. Mad, wild, intoxicated, I
read the letter but half through; and, as it fell from my trembling hand, my eye turned, beaming
with the fires of a thousand emotions, upon that of the worshipped writer. That glance was
more than her own could meet. A new consciousness seemed to be stirred up in her soul. Her
eye dropped beneath its long and silken fringe--her cheek became crimson--her bosom heaved--and,
all confidingness, she sank her head upon my chest, which heaved scarcely less wildly than her own.

"Had I been a cold-blooded villain--a selfish and remorseless seducer," continued Wacousta
with vehemence--"what was to have prevented my triumph at that moment? But I came not to blight
the flower that had long been nurtured, though unseen, with the life-blood of my own being.
Whatever I may be NOW, I was THEN the soul of disinterestedness and honour; and had she reposed
on the bosom of her own father, that devoted and unresisting girl could not have been pressed
there with holier tenderness. But even to this there was too soon a term. The hour of parting
at length arrived, announced, as before, by the small bell of her father, and I again tore
myself from her arms; not, however, without first securing the treasured letter, and obtaining
a promise from your mother that I should receive another at each succeeding visit."

CHAPTER X.

"Nearly a month passed away in this manner; and at each interview our affection seemed to increase.
The days of our meeting were ever days of pure and unalloyed happiness; while the alternate
ones of absence were, on my part, occupied chiefly with reading the glowing letters given me
at each parting by your mother. Of all these, however, there was not one so impassioned, so
natural, so every way devoted, as the first. Not that she who wrote them felt less, but that
the emotion excited in her bosom by the manifestation of mine on that occasion, had imparted
a diffidence to her style of expression, plainly indicating the source whence it sprung.

"One day, while preparing to set out on my customary excursion, a report suddenly reached me
that the route had arrived for the regiment, who were to march from ---- within three days.
This intelligence I received with inconceivable delight; for it had been settled between your
mother and myself, that this should be the moment chosen for her departure. It was not to be
supposed (and I should have been both pained and disappointed had it been otherwise,) that
she would consent to abandon her parent without some degree of regret; but, having foreseen
this objection from the first, I had gradually prepared her for the sacrifice. This was the
less difficult, as he appeared never to have treated her with affection,--seldom with the marked
favour that might have been presumed to distinguish the manner of a father towards a lovely
and only daughter. Living for himself and the indulgence of his misanthropy alone, he cared
little for the immolation of his child's happiness on its unhallowed shrine; and this was an
act of injustice I had particularly dwelt upon; upheld in truth, as it was, by the knowledge
she herself possessed, that no consideration could induce him to bestow her hand on any one
individual of a race he so cordially detested; and this was not without considerable weight
in her decision.

"With a glowing cheek, and a countenance radiant with happiness, did your mother receive my
proposal to prepare for her departure on the following day. She was sufficiently aware, even
through what I had stated myself, that there were certain ceremonies of the Church to be performed,
in order to give sanctity to our union, and ensure her own personal respectability in the world;
and these, I told her, would be solemnised by the chaplain of the regiment. She implicitly
confided in me; and she was right; for I loved her too well to make her my mistress, while
no barrier existed to her claim to a dearer title. And had she been the daughter of a peasant,
instead of a high-born gentleman, finding her as I had found her, and loving her as I did love
her, I should have acted precisely in the same way.

"The only difficulty that now occurred was the manner of her flight. The opening before alluded
to as being the point whence the old woman made her weekly sally to the market town, was of
so intricate and labyrinthian a character that none but the colonel understood the secret of
its fastenings; and the bare thought of my venturing with her on the route by which I had hitherto
made my entry into the oasis, was one that curdled my blood with fear. I could absolutely feel
my flesh to contract whenever I painted the terrible risk that would be incurred in adopting
a plan I had once conceived,--namely, that of lashing your mother to my back, while I again
effected my descent to the ledge beneath, in the manner I had hitherto done. I felt that, once
on the ridge, I might, without much effort, attain the passage of the fissure already described;
for the habit of accomplishing this leap had rendered it so perfectly familiar to me, that
I now performed it with the utmost security and ease; but to imagine our united weight suspended
over the abyss, as it necessarily must be in the first stage of our flight, when even the dislodgment
of a single root or fragment of the rock was sufficient to ensure the horrible destruction
of her whom I loved better than my own life, had something too appalling in it to suffer me
to dwell on the idea for more than a moment. I had proposed, as the most feasible and rational
plan, that the colonel should be compelled to give us egress through the secret passage, when
we might command the services of the old woman to guide us through the passes that led to the
town; but to this your mother most urgently objected, declaring that she would rather encounter
any personal peril that might attend her escape, in a different manner, than appear to be a
participator in an act of violence against her parent whose obstinacy of character she moreover
knew too well to leave a hope of his being intimidated into the accomplishment of our object,
even by a threat of death itself. This plan I was therefore compelled to abandon; and as neither
of us were able to discover the passage by which the deer always effected its entrance, I was
obliged to fix upon one, which it was agreed should be put in practice on the following day.

"On my return, I occupied myself with preparations for the reception of her who was so speedily
to become my wife. Unwilling that she should be seen by any of my companions, until the ceremony
was finally performed, I engaged apartments in a small retired cottage, distant about half
a mile from the furthest extremity of the town, where I purposed she should remain until the
regiment finally quitted the station. This point secured, I hastened to the quarters of the
chaplain, to engage his services for the following evening; but he was from home at the time,
and I repaired to my own rooms, to prepare the means of escape for your mother. These occupied
me until a very late hour; and when at length I retired to rest, it was only to indulge in
the fondest imaginings that ever filled the heart of a devoted lover. Alas! (and the dark warrior
again sighed heavily) the day-dream of my happiness was already fast drawing to a close.

"At half an hour before noon, I was again in the oasis; your mother was at the wonted spot;
and although she received me with her sunniest smiles, there were traces of tears upon her
cheek. I kissed them eagerly away, and sought to dissipate the partial gloom that was again
clouding her brow. She observed it pained me to see her thus, and she made a greater effort
to rally. She implored me to forgive her weakness; but it was the first time she was to be
separated from her parent; and conscious as she was that it was to be for ever, she could not
repress the feeling that rose, despite of herself, to her heart. She had, however, prepared
a letter, at my suggestion, to be left on her favourite moss seat, where it was likely she
would first be sought by her father, to assure him of her safety, and of her prospects of future
happiness; and the consciousness that he would labour under no harrowing uncertainty in regard
to her fate, seemed, at length, to soothe and satisfy her heart.

"I now led her to the aperture, where I had left the apparatus provided for my purpose: this
consisted of a close netting, about four feet in depth, with a board for a footstool at the
bottom, and furnished at intervals with hoops, so as to keep it full and open. The top of this
netting was provided with two handles, to which were attached the ends of a cord many fathoms
in length; the whole of such durability, as to have borne weights equal to those of three ordinary
sized men, with which I had proved it prior to my setting out. My first care was to bandage
the eyes of your mother, (who willingly and fearlessly submitted to all I proposed,) that she
might not see, and become faint with seeing, the terrible chasm over which she was about to
be suspended. I then placed her within the netting, which, fitting closely to her person, and
reaching under her arms, completely secured her; and my next urgent request was, that she would
not, on any account, remove the bandage, or make the slightest movement, when she found herself
stationary below, until I had joined her. I then dropped her gently through the aperture, lowering
fathom after fathom of the rope, the ends of which I had firmly secured round the trunk of
a tree, as an additional safeguard, until she finally came on a level with that part of the
cliff on which I had reposed when first she beheld me. As she still hung immediately over the
abyss, it was necessary to give a gradual impetus to her weight, to enable her to gain the
landing-place. I now, therefore, commenced swinging her to and fro, until she at length came
so near the point desired, that I clearly saw the principal difficulty was surmounted. The
necessary motion having been given to the balance, with one vigorous and final impulsion I
dexterously contrived to deposit her several feet from the edge of the lower rock, when, slackening
the rope on the instant, I had the inexpressible satisfaction to see that she remained firm
and stationary. The waving of her scarf immediately afterwards (a signal previously agreed
upon), announced she had sustained no injury in this rather rude collision with the rock, and
I in turn commenced my descent.

"Fearing to cast away the ends of the rope, lest their weight should by any chance effect the
balance of the footing your mother had obtained, I now secured them around my loins, and accomplishing
my descent in the customary manner, speedily found myself once more at the side of my heart's
dearest treasure. Here the transport of my joy was too great to be controlled; I felt that
NOW my prize was indeed secured to me for ever; and I burst forth into the most passionate
exclamations of tenderness, and falling on my knees, raised my hands to Heaven in fervent gratitude
for the success with which my enterprise had been crowned. Another would have been discouraged
at the difficulties still remaining; but with these I was become too familiar, not to feel
the utmost confidence in encountering them, even with the treasure that was equally perilled
with myself. For a moment I removed the bandage from the eyes of your mother, that she might
behold not only the far distant point whence she had descended, but the frowning precipice
I had daily been in the habit of climbing to be blest with her presence. She did so,--and her
cheek paled, for the first time, with a sense of the danger I had incurred; then turning her
soft and beautiful eyes on mine, she smiled a smile that seemed to express how much her love
would repay me. Again our lips met, and we were happy even in that lonely spot, beyond all
language to describe. Once more, at length, I prepared to execute the remainder of my task;
and I again applied the bandage to her eyes, saying that, although the principal danger was
over, still there was another I could not bear she should look upon. Again she smiled, and
with a touching sweetness of expression that fired my blood, observing at the same time she
feared no danger while she was with me, but that if my object was to prevent her from looking
at me, the most efficient way certainly was to apply a bandage to her eyes. Oh! woman, woman!"
groaned Wacousta, in fierce anguish of spirit, "who shall expound the complex riddle of thy
versatile nature?

"Disengaging the rope from the handles of the netting, I now applied to these a broad leathern
belt taken from the pouches of two of my men, and stooping with my back to the cherished burden
with which I was about to charge myself, passed the centre of the belt across my chest, much
in the manner in which, as you are aware, Indian women carry their infant children. As an additional
precaution, I had secured the netting round my waist by a strong lacing of cord, and then raising
myself to my full height, and satisfying myself of the perfect freedom of action of my limbs,
seized a long balancing pole I had left suspended against the rock at my last visit, and commenced
my descent of the sloping ridge. On approaching the horrible chasm, a feeling of faintness
came over me, despite of the confidence with which I had previously armed myself. This, however,
was but momentary. Sensible that every thing depended on rapidity of movement, I paused not
in my course; but, quickening my pace as I gradually drew nearer, gave the necessary impetus
to my motion, and cleared the gap with a facility far exceeding what had distinguished my first
passage, and which was the fruit of constant practice alone. Here my balance was sustained
by the pole; and at length I had the inexpressible satisfaction to find myself at the very
extremity of the ridge, and immediately at the point where I had left my companions in my first
memorable pursuit. Alas!" continued the warrior, again interrupting himself with one of those
fierce exclamations of impatient anguish that so frequently occurred in his narrative, "what
subject for rejoicing was there in this? Better far we had been dashed to pieces in the abyss,
than I should have lived to curse the hour when first my spirit of adventure led me to traverse
it." Again he resumed:--

"In the deep transport of my joy, I once more threw myself on my knees in speechless thanksgiving
to Providence for the complete success of my undertaking. Your mother, whom I had previously
released from her confinement, did the same; and at that moment the union of our hearts seemed
to be cemented by a divine influence, manifested in the fulness of the gratitude of each. I
then raised her from the earth, imprinting a kiss upon her fair brow, that was hallowed by
the purity of the feeling I had so recently indulged in; and throwing over her shoulders the
mantle of a youth, which I had secreted near the spot, enjoined her to follow me closely in
the path I was about to pursue. As she had hitherto encountered no fatigue, and was, moreover,
well provided with strong buskins I had brought for the purpose, I thought it advisable to
discontinue the use of the netting, which must attract notice, and cause us, perhaps, to be
followed, in the event of our being met by any of the hunters that usually traversed these
parts. To carry her in my arms, as I should have preferred, might have excited the same curiosity,
and I was therefore compelled to decide upon her walking; reserving to myself, however, the
sweet task of bearing her in my embrace over the more difficult parts of our course.

"I have not hitherto found it necessary to state," continued Wacousta, his brow lowering with
fierce and gloomy thought, "that more than once, latterly, on my return from the oasis, which
was usually at a stated hour, I had observed a hunter hovering near the end of the ledge, yet
quickly retreating as I advanced. There was something in the figure of this man that recalled
to my recollection the form of your father; but ever, on my return to quarters, I found him
in uniform, and exhibiting any thing but the appearance of one who had recently been threading
his weary way among rocks and fastnesses. Besides, the improbability of this fact was so great,
that it occupied not my attention beyond the passing moment. On the present occasion, however,
I saw the same hunter, and was more forcibly than ever struck by the resemblance to my friend.
Prior to my quitting the point where I had liberated your mother from the netting, I had, in
addition to the disguise of the cloak, found it necessary to make some alteration in the arrangement
of her hair; the redundancy of which, as it floated gracefully over her polished neck, was
in itself sufficient to betray her sex. With this view I had removed her plumed bonnet. It
was the first time I had seen her without it; and so deeply impressed was I by the angel-like
character of the extreme feminine beauty she, more than ever, then exhibited, that I knelt
in silent adoration for some moments at her feet, my eyes and countenance alone expressing
the fervent and almost holy emotion of my enraptured soul. Had she been a divinity, I could
not have worshipped her with a purer feeling. While I yet knelt, I fancied I heard a sound
behind me; and, turning quickly, beheld the head of a man peering above a point of rock at
some little distance. He immediately, on witnessing my action, sank again beneath it, but not
in sufficient time to prevent my almost assuring myself that it was the face of your father
I had beheld. My first impulse was to bound forward, and satisfy myself who it really was who
seemed thus ever on the watch to intercept my movements; but a second rapid reflection convinced
me, that, having been discovered, it was most likely the intruder had already effected his
retreat, and that any attempt at pursuit might not only alarm your mother, but compromise her
safety. I determined, however, to tax your father with the fact on my return to quarters; and,
from the manner in which he met the charge, to form my own conclusion.

"Meanwhile we pursued our course; and after an hour's rather laborious exertion, at length
emerged from the succession of glens and rocks that lay in our way; when, skirting the valley
in which the town was situated, we finally reached the cottage where I had secured my lodging.
Previous to entering it, I had told your mother, that for the few hours that would intervene
before the marriage ceremony could be performed, I should, by way of lulling the curiosity
of her hostess, introduce her as a near relative of my own. This I did accordingly; and, having
seen that every thing was comfortably arranged for her convenience, and recommending her strongly
to the care of the old woman, I set off once more in search of the chaplain of the regiment
Before I could reach his residence, however, I was met by a sergeant of my company, who came
running towards me, evidently with some intelligence of moment. He stated, that my presence
was required without delay. The grenadiers, with the senior subaltern, were in orders for detachment
for an important service; and considerable displeasure had been manifested by the colonel at
my absence, especially as of late I had greatly neglected my military duties. He had been looking
for me every where, he said, but without success, when Ensign de Haldimar had pointed out to
him in what direction it was likely I might be found.

"At a calmer moment, I should have been startled at the last observation; but my mind was too
much engrossed with the principal subject of my regret, to pay any attention to the circumstance.
It was said the detachment would be occupied in this duty a week or ten days, at least; and
how was I to absent myself from her whom I so fondly loved for this period, without even being
permitted first to see and account to her for my absence? There was torture in the very thought;
and in the height of my impatience, I told the sergeant he might give my compliments to the
colonel, and say I would see the service d--d rather than inconvenience myself by going out
on this duty at so short a notice; that I had private business of the highest importance to
myself to transact, and could not absent myself. As the man, however, prepared coolly to depart,
it suddenly occurred to me, that I might prevail on your father to take my duty now, as on
former occasions he had willingly done, and I countermanded my message to the colonel; desiring
him, however, to find out Ensign de Haldimar, and say that I requested to see him immediately
at my quarters, whither I was now proceeding to change my dress.

"With a beating heart did I assume an uniform that appeared, at that moment, hideous in my
eyes; yet I was not without a hope I might yet get off this ill-timed duty. Before I had completed
my equipment, your father entered; and when I first glanced my eye full upon his, I thought
his countenance exhibited evidences of confusion. This immediately reminded me of the unknown
hunter, and I asked him if he was not the person I described. His answer was not a positive
denial, but a mixture of raillery and surprise that lulled my doubts, enfeebled as they were
by the restored calm of his features. I then told him that I had a particular favour to ask
of him, which, in consideration of our friendship, I trusted he would not refuse; and that
was, to take my duty in the expedition about to set forth. His manner implied concern; and
he asked, with a look that had much deliberate expression in it, 'if I was aware that it was
a duty in which blood was expected to be shed? He could not suppose that any consideration
would induce me to resign my duty to another officer, when apprised of this fact.' All this
was said with the air of one really interested in my honour; but in my increasing impatience,
I told him I wanted none of his cant; I simply asked him a favour, which he would grant or
decline as he thought proper. This was a harshness of language I had never indulged in; but
my mind was sore under the existing causes of my annoyance, and I could not bear to have my
motives reflected on at a moment when my heart was torn with all the agonies attendant on the
position in which I found myself placed. His cheek paled and flushed more than once, before
he replied, 'that in spite of my unkindness his friendship might induce him to do much for
me, even as he had hitherto done, but that on the present occasion it rested not with him.
In order to justify himself he would no longer disguise the fact from me, that the colonel
had declared, in the presence of the whole regiment, I should take my duty regularly in future,
and not be suffered to make a convenience of the service any longer. If, however, he could
do any thing for me during my absence, I had but to command him.

"While I was yet giving vent, in no very measured terms, to the indignation I felt at being
made the subject of public censure by the colonel, the same sergeant came into the room, announcing
that the company were only waiting for me to march, and that the colonel desired my instant
presence. In the agitation of my feelings, I scarcely knew what I did, putting several portions
of my regimental equipment on so completely awry, that your father noticed and rectified the
errors I had committed; while again, in the presence of the sergeant, I expressed the deepest
regret he could not relieve me from a duty that was hateful to the last degree.

"Torn with agony at the thought of the uncertainty in which I was compelled to leave her, whom
I so fondly adored, I had now no other alternative than to make a partial confidant of your
father. I told him that in the cottage which I pointed out he would find the original of the
portrait he had seen me painting on a former occasion,--the Cornish cousin, whose beauty he
professed to hold so cheaply. More he should know of her on my return; but at present I confided
her to his honour, and begged he would prove his friendship for me by rendering her whatever
attention she might require in her humble abode. With these hurried injunctions he promised
to comply; and it has often occurred to me since, although I did not remark it at the time,
that while his voice and manner were calm, there was a burning glow upon his handsome cheek,
and a suppressed exultation in his eye, that I had never observed on either before. I then
quitted the room; and hastening to my company with a gloom on--my brow that indicated the wretchedness
of my inward spirit, was soon afterwards on the march from ----."

Again the warrior seemed agitated with the most violent emotion; he buried his face in his
hands; and the silence that ensued was longer than any he had previously indulged in. At length
he made an effort to arouse himself; and again exhibiting his swarthy features, disclosed a
brow, not clouded, as before, by grief, but animated with the fiercest and most appalling passions,
while he thus impetuously resumed.

CHAPTER XI.

"If, hitherto, Clara de Haldimar, I have been minute in the detail of all that attended my
connection with your mother, it has been with a view to prove to you how deeply I have been
injured; but I have now arrived at a part of my history, when to linger on the past would goad
me into madness, and render me unfit for the purpose to which I have devoted myself. Brief
must be the probing of wounds, that nearly five lustres have been insufficient to heal; brief
the tale that reveals the infamy of those who have given you birth, and the utter blighting
of the fairest hopes of one whose only fault was that of loving, "not too wisely, but too well."

"Will you credit the monstrous truth," he added, in a fierce but composed whisper, while he
bent eagerly over the form of the trembling yet attentive girl, "when I tell you that, on my
return from that fatal expedition, during my continuance on which her image had never once
been absent from my mind, I found Clara Beverley the wife of De Haldimar? Yes," continued Wacousta,
his wounded feeling and mortified pride chafing, by the bitter recollection, into increasing
fury, while his countenance paled in its swarthiness, "the wife, the wedded wife of yon false
and traitorous governor! Well may you look surprised, Clara de Haldimar: such damnable treachery
as this may startle his own blood in the veins of another, nor find its justification even
in the devotedness of woman's filial piety. To what satanic arts so calculating a villain could
have had recourse to effect his object I know not; but it is not the less true, that she, from
whom my previous history must have taught you to expect the purity of intention and conduct
of an angel, became his wife,--and I a being accursed among men. Even as our common mother
is said to have fallen in the garden of Eden, tempted by the wily beauty of the devil, so did
your mother fall, seduced by that of the cold, false, traitorous De Haldimar." Here the agitation
of Wacousta became terrific. The labouring of his chest was like that of one convulsed with
some racking agony and the swollen veins and arteries of his head seemed to threaten the extinction
of life in some fearful paroxysm. At length he burst into a violent fit of tears, more appalling,
in one of his iron nature, than the fury which had preceded it,--and it was many minutes before
he could so far compose himself as to resume.

"Think not, Clara de Haldimar, I speak without the proof. Her own words confessed, her own
lips avowed it, and yet I neither slew her, nor her paramour, nor myself. On my return to the
regiment I had flown to the cottage, on the wings of the most impatient and tender love that
ever filled the bosom of man for woman. To my enquiries the landlady replied, that my cousin
had been married two days previously, by the military chaplain, to a handsome young officer,
who had visited her soon after my departure, and was constantly with her from that moment;
and that immediately after the ceremony they had left, but she knew not whither. Wild, desperate,
almost bereft of reason, and with a heart bounding against my bosom, as if each agonising throb
were to be its last, I ran like a maniac back into the town, nor paused till I found myself
in the presence of your father. My mind was a volcano, but still I attempted to be calm, even
while I charged him, in the most outrageous terms, with his villainy. Deny it he could not;
but, far from excusing it, he boldly avowed and justified the step he had taken, intimating,
with a smile full of meaning, there was nothing in a connection with the family of De Haldimar
to reflect disgrace on the cousin of Sir Reginald Morton; and that; the highest compliment
he could pay his friend was to attach himself to one whom that friend had declared to be so
near a relative of his own. There was a coldness of taunt in these remarks, that implied his
sense of the deception I had practised on him, in regard to the true nature of the relationship;
and for a moment, while my hand firmly grasped the hilt of my sword, I hesitated whether I
should not cut him down at my feet: I had self-command, however, to abstain from the outrage,
and I have often since regretted I had. My own blood could have been but spilt in atonement
for my just revenge; and as for the obloquy attached to the memory of the assassin, it could
not have been more bitter than that which has followed me through life. But what do I say?"
fiercely continued the warrior, an exulting ferocity sparkling in his eye, and animating his
countenance; "had he fallen, then my vengeance were but half complete. No; it is now he shall
feel the deadly venom in his heart, that has so long banqueted on mine.

"Determined to know from her own lips," he pursued, to the shuddering Clara, whose hopes, hitherto
strongly excited, now, began again to fade beneath the new aspect given to the strange history
of this terrible man;--"determined to satisfy myself from her own acknowledgment, whether all
I had heard was not an imposition, I summoned calmness enough to desire that your mother might
confirm in person the alienation of her affection, as nothing short of that could convince
me of the truth. He left the room, and presently re-appeared, conducting her in from another:
I thought she looked more beautiful than ever, but, alas! I had the inexpressible horror to
discover, before a word was uttered, that all the fondness of her nature was indeed transferred
to your father. How I endured the humiliation of that scene has often been a source of utter
astonishment to myself; but I did endure it. To my wild demand, how she could so soon have
forgotten her vows, and falsified her plighted engagements, she replied, timidly and confusedly,
she had not yet known her own heart; but if she had pained me by her conduct, she was sorry
for it, and hoped I would forgive her. She would always be happy to esteem me as a friend,
but she loved her Charles far, far better than she had ever loved me. This damning admission,
couched in the same language of simplicity that had first touched and won my affection, was
like boiling lead upon my brain. In a transport of madness I sprang towards her, caught her
in my arms, and swore she should accompany me back to the oasis--when I had taken her there,
to be regained by my detested rival, if he could; but that he should not eat the fruit I had
plucked at so much peril to myself. She struggled to disengage herself, calling on your father
by the most endearing epithets to free her from my embrace. He attempted it, and I struck him
senseless to the floor at a single blow with the flat of my sabre, which in my extreme fury
I had unsheathed. Instead, however, of profiting by the opportunity thus afforded to execute
my threat, a feeling of disgust and contempt came over me, for the woman, whose inconstancy
had been the cause of my committing myself in this ungentlemanly manner; and bestowing deep
but silent curses on her head, I rushed from the house in a state of frenzy. How often since
have I regretted that I had not pursued my first impulse, and borne her to some wild, where,
forgetting one by whose beauty of person her eye alone had been seduced, her heart might have
returned to its allegiance to him who had first awakened the sympathies of her soul, and would
have loved her with a love blending the fiercest fires of the eagle with the gentlest devotedness
of the dove. But destiny had differently ordained.

"Did my injuries end here?" pursued the dark warrior, as his eye kindled with rage. "No: for
weeks I was insensible to any thing but the dreadful shock my soul had sustained. A heavy stupor
weighed me down, and for a period it was supposed my reason was overthrown: no such mercy was
reserved for me. The regiment had quitted the Highlands, and were now stationary in ----, whither
I had accompanied it in arrest. The restoration of my faculties was the signal for new persecutions.
Scarcely had the medical officers reported me fit to sustain the ordeal, when a court-martial
was assembled to try me on a variety of charges. Who was my prosecutor? Listen, Clara," and
he shook her violently by the arm. "He who had robbed me of all that gave value to life, and
incentive to honour,--he who, under the guise of friendship, had stolen into the Eden of my
love, and left it barren of affection. In a word, yon detested governor, to whose inhuman cruelty
even the son of my brother has, by some strange fatality of coincidence, so recently fallen
a second sacrifice. Curses, curses on him," he pursued, with frightful vehemence, half rising
as he spoke, and holding forth his right arm in a menacing attitude; "but the hour of retribution
is at hand, and revenge, the exclusive passion of the gods, shall at length be mine. In no
other country in the world--under no other circumstances than the present--could I have so
secured it.

"What were the charges preferred against me?" he continued, with a violence that almost petrified
the unhappy girl. "Hear them, and judge whether I have not cause for the inextinguishable hate
that rankles at my heart. Every trifling disobedience of orders--every partial neglect of duty
that could be raked up--was tortured into a specific charge; and, as I have already admitted
I had latterly transgressed not a little in this respect, these were numerous enough. Yet they
were but preparatory to others of greater magnitude. Next succeeded one that referred to the
message I had given, and countermanded, to the sergeant of my company, when in the impatience
of my disappointment I had desired him to tell the colonel I would see the service d--d rather
than inconvenience myself at that moment for it. This was unsupported by other evidence, however,
and therefore failed in the proof. But the web was too closely woven around to admit of my
escaping.--Will you, can you believe any thing half so atrocious, as that your father should
have called on this same man not only to prove the violent and insubordinate language I had
used in reference to the commanding officer in my own rooms, but also to substantiate a charge
of cowardice, grounded on the unwillingness I had expressed to accompany the expedition, and
the extraordinary trepidation I had evinced, while preparing for the duty, manifested, as it
was stated to be, by the various errors he had rectified in my equipment with his own hand?
Yes, even this pitiful charge was one of the many preferred; but the severest was that which
he had the unblushing effrontery to make the subject of public investigation, rather than of
private redress--the blow I had struck him in his own apartments. And who was his witness in
this monstrous charge?--your mother, Clara. Yea, I stood as a criminal in her presence; and
yet she came forward to tender an evidence that was to consign me to a disgraceful sentence.
My vile prosecutor had, moreover, the encouragement, the sanction of his colonel throughout,
and by him he was upheld in every contemptible charge his ingenuity could devise. Do you not
anticipate the result?--I was found guilty, and dismissed the service.

"How acted my brother officers, when, previously to the trial, I alluded to the damnable treachery
of your father? Did they condemn his conduct, or sympathise with me in my misfortune?--No;
they shrugged their shoulders, and coldly observed, I ought to have known better than to trust
one against whom they had so often cautioned me; but that as I had selected him for my friend,
I should have bestowed a whole, and not a half confidence upon him. He had had the hypocrisy
to pretend to them he had violated no trust, since he had honourably espoused a lady whom I
had introduced to him as a cousin, and in whom I appeared to have no other interest than that
of relationship. Not, they said, that they believed he actually did entertain that impression;
but still the excuse was too plausible, and had been too well studied by my cunning rival,
to be openly refuted. As for the mere fact of his supplanting me, they thought it an excellent
thing,--a ruse d'amour for which they never would have given him credit; and although they
admitted it was provoking enough to be ousted out of one's mistress in that cool sort of way,
still I should not so far have forgotten myself as to have struck him while he was unarmed,
when it was so easy to have otherwise fastened an insult on him. Such," bitterly pursued Wacousta,
"was the consolation I received from men, who, a few short weeks before, had been sedulous
to gain and cultivate my friendship,--but even this was only vouchsafed antecedent to my trial.
When the sentence was promulgated, announcing my dismissal from the service, every back was
turned upon me, as though I had been found guilty of some dishonourable action or some disgraceful
crime; and, on the evening of the same day, when I threw from me for ever an uniform that I
now loathed from my inmost soul, there was not one among those who had often banqueted at my
expense, who had the humanity to come to me and say, 'Sir Reginald Morton, farewell.'

"What agonies of mind I endured,--what burning tears I nightly shed upon a pillow I was destined
to press in freezing loneliness,--what hours of solitude I passed, far from the haunts of my
fellow-men, and forming plans of vengeance,--it would take much longer time to relate than
I have actually bestowed on my unhappy history. 

The two young men with no thought for the moment to one of the wounded, attacked just the quickly
burning logs on and threw them overboard - even greater disaster of the Boats and the rest of
his crew to divert, as a new cry of terror, this work was unnecessary.

sink "We - we fall," it shouted from the other side over, we're lost! "

Wolf jumped again to the edge of the boat, to be convinced of the truth of the call, and was
really that the guards barely half a foot from the surface of the water were removed, so was
the gurgling quietly rumbling sound can be heard even with the greedy Located in a flood somewhere
not far away from there so called leak sealing them in, because the boat, which now made no more
progress drove with the flow down again, stuck but trees and dark strains from the water -
they were just above it Island where they run up earlier, and within
minutes had yet to decide their fate.

George, however, had bent over the unfortunate, if the first shock of the bursting Boiler made
and realized with horror among them Carl Berger's shape, with shattered
Shoulder, bleeding and unconscious on the logs were thrown.

True, he still breathed, but as he was here to help bring?

A violent blow struck at the same time against the boat, under the one, the boiler deck supporting
strong and splintered ceiling collapsed while a portion of the front deck you succeeded. The
women screamed, moaned and whined the wounded, the men cursed wildly, and now and then jumped
overboard individual in fear of death that there to capture the water projecting branches submerged
trees, and thus before, they certainly save seeming demise of the boat. From there they could
not find anywhere but on land, the dark tide gurgled and whirl it around her, and slack as
their strength, and the cold water, her limbs shook with chill, they
cried out from there across, again be brought on board.

But the boat did not sink, and whether on the sand, or some protective, under water small trunk
went where it was pushed by the powerful current, it just sat and
only the front part, which presses against the full tide, expressed
in half under water, and let the foaming element showering it.

About half an hour passed before any degree of damage suffered to see, and order in the confused
cries and falls to death frightened crowd, beneath which are also several women from cabin and steerage
were, could be brought. George Donner had However, the badly wounded compatriot with Wolf's help
back in which the upper tween deck brought out now, the other dead and wounded on torn mattresses
in the Coyen were laid, and the two young people then went out to
explore the terrain, where they were.

Pushed overboard with a plank of which the carpenter on the back a lot Deck lie had, they felt that
the water just behind the boat to the island can hardly four feet deep, and toppled over each
other and there anschwemmten strains almost covered was. By this point, they worked their way
up to a maximum of twenty paces away Sandbank hinanlief to thick brush and undergrowth. Wolf
then waded back to the boat and was from there, among the boilers, ranging over a burning log,
which at its lower end with a quickly apprehended pillows from the steerage wrapped was to be
able to hold it in your hand. This he carried to the shore, and soon there was burning in
add towed broken-down thin branches abundantly nourished, a bright
fire, the eerie scene of the stranded boat, with its red light poured.

Now the captain wished particularly to stay on board and wait for the day so that they by a passing
boat could be picked up, but the tax man, who at the bow the water had been investigated and found
there far deeper than the boat, now declared that this should only be ridden in any one log
at a time, and every moment of this could slip or press him down,
where they were not sure then the whole boat to see the sinking bow
follow the sooner, therefore, they left the wreck, the better.

People went because even under the pilot's line, it quickly called a "stage" build tied together
by planks that would form a bridge to land, because the Joel was, could be cut to train, not
to do in the tangled branches. This helped them admirably the rapidly ADAPTED boardwalk, or
holding it carry cables, and the message, with them or by a sudden jerk, the craft were, were
driven to greater speed, above all, they carried the wounded over on the sand next to the warming
fire, where they remained one of the uninjured passengers as good a camp as possible mending,
while the crew was then ordered to save As for some.

This, however, they kept no time, the pilot had had only right when he drove the boat to leave,
because by the compact space in the water, especially the sugar cargo equal saturated, the
rump was become so terribly difficult that it to the tribe, to which
he in any case be eating no longer could bear, now gave a piece, and
then, perhaps dug by the root, slide down the front part of the boat
was.

The boldest of the sailors and firemen, and among them was the young wolf, because George and the
wounded were employed, however not prevent by the first drop, jumped back only on the rear
deck, where they detained, and expected the rest, whether this part of the boat to stay afloat,
or follow the previous weight am. For a moment it seemed as if it wanted to prevail, but a
new surge warning soon they concerned with their own safety to be, swayed for a moment the
great powerful boat, which was now half-turned on one side against the current, then pressed
them it on its side, what was until then held by it, and slow the flood of is repulsive, which drew
back from the andri lows, only to later just so much greedy pounce on its prey, the wreckage slid
into such deep water that only the upper part his cabin on the Larbordseite protruded from it, and
the dirty yellow tide even scary with the white and yellow ornaments
played the glittering row of windows.

People had this really hardly had time to escape to the plank out
of country and were now deprived of all their half naked, wet, exhausted,
even without a single one of them Hat and shoes, on the barren sands
of the island.

On the comrade bent over, just open the eyes to him and his lips had
moved as to speak, was George.

"As you are, Berger, you have much pain," he asked sympathetically.

"Water," groaned the wretched man.

Wolf jumped to the water's edge and brought back the stuffed hat, and the wounded that some Trains,
then he let his head fall to the side. "My dream," he whispered, "they - they - get - Me "- and
fell dead into the arms of comrades.

Bent over the body, with folded hands, stood another companion of him, Schultze, the boat to
St. Louis on the same passage taken.

"Good God," he moaned softly to himself - "as dark and inscrutable are Thy ways; cheered as
the young man as he was free, his pursuers looked withdrawn, and a few months only, and dead
and maimed he is on the same floor, which he with such joyful hope and confidence to meet target!
"-

»Help - water -" Others lamented beside it, and filled the air with their lamentations - "Oh my
God - oh my God! Help, help! "And the fire blazed high and this glowing on, and threw her blood-red
glow over this scene of horror and misery.

"That is the reward - that is God's court," muttered as close to George, with One of the other
wounded was already busy, and to alleviate the pain sought a low,
hoarse voice in German, and when he turned to it, he recognized surprised
the woman by the Haidschnucke related to the former crossing almost
constantly lay ill in her Coye and now, huddled close to one fire
on the sand, The two thin arms was wrapped around her knees, and staring
before him into the flame, with the head cold and scary to nodding,
muttering, "this is the punishment for crimes committed Transgression
in the old man up there who gave me the conscience almost torn to
pieces on the long trip - the children are met us - the dead children,
and have set with the boat - the subject's down to the bottom - deep,
deep down - ha cried!

" they suddenly louder and together with a shudder - "they have a terrible terrible weight."

"You'll
burn your mouth you still with the great, crazy talk," whispered her because the man who bent over
her, dark and morose in the ear - 'thinking' at least not loud if you must because once such
silly drivel constantly carry around in your head, or, God damn 'me,
me - I get tired of the story once, and go my way.

"

"How the little one is in bed with the healthy red cheeks," the woman drove away, however,
without paying attention to the threat of the man, so listen to them
without probable - "I had to again broke kiss me yet so nearly the
heart, and immediately it fell asleep and slept soundly - so sweet.

"

"By the eternal God," cried George Donner, which none of the words had escaped, while at the same
time had seen in the light of the flame-lit courts for the bearded man as he jumped up and
came up to them - "You came from Waldenhayn, Steffen and means are
the same, of the woman become volatile and their children at the North,
even starvation award left, where has!

"

"Go to hell - what do you want of me," Steffen said the black but "is annoying you? and the steam
rose in the head? - My name is not Meier and Steffen.

"

"What, what is the matter" even now cried wolf, jumping up and kicking
to his comrade - "what is with the man?

"

"This is the villain of his children has left?"

Cried but now Mr. Schultze turning against the criminals - "this is the guy with whom she wanted
posters in Germany persecuted, and we are on our ship have brought over to America? "

"Hey - where's burning again," but called on the Americans, who stood with the fire and had
understood a word of the whole trial, chaotic mess, "what the hell kauderwelscht You there together
now? "

As George explained to them, in noble indignation of both the crime and zornfunkelnde savage
glances it adhered to the shape of the man who they dark and defiantly
against stood.

"Death and the Devil," shouted a long boat man, "is there's not a miracle if we, with such
Cargo on board, are inflated - the scoundrel deserves to have his
hands tied and are here thrown into the water to where it swirls in
the Free.

"

not "In the water, would poison the fishes" as shouted a Kentuckian, was achieved by Rest of
the rail making, on the lad, "but at one of the trees here, he should hang, to decorate the island.
"

"Back there," but the man who cried jumping a step aside when the Americans to pushed him over -
"what you want from me? - There are lies and calumnies "!

"What he says," cried others, which do not understand him - "and that's because the woman? - A beautiful
mother! "

"How they looked," she whispered but this, the raging and screaming
around them at all not paying attention, by, in the same position
as before, over and over is rocked - "Like they have cursed when they
came the next morning and the old from the nest were flown to feed
the boys had - but - what is this "- she was restless, be added shyly
looking around everywhere - they "do not come - not the first day
- not the second - not the third - the flour is used up - the milk
turned sour for the Child - as it stretches out her hands and cries
for her mother - very merciful God, I have to return - I must, I must
return!

"

She jumped up, and had both hands, between which the matte dull eyes staring and looked wildly
around, pressed firmly against the temple. George, who felt her spirit as well attacked by the
recent horrors, with the gnawing worm of crime committed at heart and was shaken, as occurred
to her, put his hand on the shoulder and she would calm down.

"Away," but she said softly, without looking round at him - is "blood on your hands - me shudder
when I look at you. "

"She's crazy," now called the boat people who crowded around her, and her half shy half-curious
face looked - "God is mad at" the woman without! continue to look after the men fell back together
at their former place, retired on her white cloth that covered his head completely, and remained
so silent and motionless beside fire crouch. When the others looked round again but now after
the man, he was in the dense sand bank bounding the undergrowth and
pipe the island disappeared.

However, people wanted a part of the boy who, through his escape his evil conscience Expresses
had sufficiently investigated, and have passed the United States
Courts, the Island was large, and as long as it was dark at something
like this was unthinkable.

But then took his own situation their attention much too busy to deal with the stranger to employ
much longer than we just saw him, and all crowded now to the second engineer ago, which was
also badly wounded by the fire, and it is again a first sign of life
was.

Thunder jumped out to the water, immersed himself his cloth, it back to fresh, and put it to
the half unconscious to the temple, while his Wolf moistened lips, and splashed some water in
the face.

The man finally came to himself, and his wounds were found to not happily so hard to cast doubt
on its emergence, but others, among them two passengers, a German and an American were from
the hot steam pouring out terribly scalded been, and moaned and groaned, and asked for God's will
to put an end to their suffering.

While all of this happened, which allowed the moment to do only to the engineer had again recovered
sufficiently to at least answer some questions that the captain of the Cause of the accident
taught him.

What say the poor devil could still agreed with the testimony of the firemen. He was recently before
the explosion took place, was raised on his guard, and down into
the engine room went, where he noticed that already, no one there
that he encountered.

About Guards quickly toward the fire approach people he met here the other engineer that he instantly
recognized for half drunk. He asked him now to the wood of these still held in his hand, to
examine the strength of the steam, but refused to give him a laugh, yet while uttering it then
that he also had his best steam, and the boat just now against the current delivery points like a runaway
horse. Dating back to the machine he saw his Horror that the safety valve was complaining in
a way that the safety of the boat had to threaten to the highest - he quickly jumped fortzureißen
the weights, and called it open the doors to the front when he, as he believes to remember on
the machine wood, in the haste and fear slipped and fell to the ground at the same moment,
where the pressed- Steam finally blew with force his way into the open and paved the boiler.
That alone saved him anyway, he would be otherwise, as the engineer of the other next to him,
but raised had been smashed to atoms.

Mighty fire, however, were discussed on the sand and dense wood kindled on the edge, healthy
wounded as to offer only relatively tolerable lodging, and especially the Americans had already
for the ladies from the cabin, on a particular fire, a dense Roof of branches made up, they face
the night dew and the cold, over striking about the current to protect drafts; of sleep, however,
was not even for the injured to think hard, for the unfortunate groaned and whined in their pain
until it was bright day. Thunder gave it to every possible pains to alleviate their pain, tore
his linen shirt, the last thing he had left to make associations, and sought above all the
fever heat of the Poor cooling. But human resources, even if he had all the attention he needed
sufficient, since not everything, and the two scalded, in the engine room as the boiler had exploded,
there slept on piles of coffee bags, he died under the hands, even
before the sun rose and illuminated the sad wild group.

Soon after sunrise came a boat upstream, and close to the island over - even to the Part of
the water towering wreck, as the people betrayed him on the banks clear enough what happened
here, and sent his boat ashore crew and passengers receive and bring it to the next town, where
they could get help. The wounded were First to be done on board disembarked in Memphis again, and
only the woman who still always sat motionless by the fire, refused to follow them. She did not
take a step further go with the man who brought the curse and misery to her, and her first
as George, the Unfortunate not like leaving their fate in the state
said that Steffen in the forest would be sprung and not come back,
she finally got up, smoothed her long tangled hair from his forehead,
and followed the young man without will from then on, wherever he
took them.

Once in Memphis, the wounded were landed and handed over to medical
care there, and the captain of the "Mississippi Belle" as the steamer
was she taken, offered a friendly passengers and crew of the Back
Woods of all the baggage with the Queen the sinking of the boat had
lost to receive free with to St. Louis, where he was also determined.

Most did Diess to generous offer, although almost all, as well as Wolf and George, her ready
money contributed, and saved, had only asked Wolf its passage as
a fire man to be allowed to work off, with his thunder followed.

The captain certainly laughed about the wayward boys, but let them
be, and how George Wolf firemen were on the Mississippi Belle.

The woman brought George, shortly before the departure of the boat, in a German boarding-house,
and asked the people there to take care of her until she had recovered, he himself would be by
Way back to audition again, and give you the cost at which he already had a few dollars there,
bear.

The woman spoke not a word here - they thanked him not, no she looked up, and sat still and motionless
as she had been sitting by the fire in the corner as he left the house.

Seventh chapter

The Germans in Cincinnati.

Lord of Hopfgarten, we have left on his trip to Cincinnati, had, however, in the "Queen of the West"
as genuine or Porkopolis - as the vast Ground pork due to be slaughtered
annually and sent out a joke in the country ie, stayed a few weeks
to get to the hustle and bustle of the inner cities America to make
known.

The location of Cincinnati, which forms the central point of all German settlements located there,
is charming, and the beautiful Ohio (used by the Indians O-hy-o - called the beautiful stream)
bespühlt her foot and offers her an excellent landing, where the largest Mississippi steamboat
their freighters to load and unload, while friendly, now often with vines planted hills surround
the town in the back. It was a matter of him as if almost third of the inhabitants were German,
and the individual districts only seemed particularly Country people lived, even on the excellent market
ordered one heard little else than Speak German, and it amused him, particularly while the
merger of the costumes, the transition the German manufacturer, which only after stubborn
resistance in all respects by the German Bauer takes off to watch the Americans.

Strange transformation came from there, not unlike those like them everywhere in wild strains can
be observed, and our German farmer does have some similarity, so strange it may sound, with the Indians.
To his old ways with a tenacity which suspended its To none, he considered any of them want to
shake him distrustful, jealous even - His father has done that so and so and so it was good,
why's should now probably be different - Such as "city people with
spectacles who have read in books" - they think could do better? who
had at least their intentions, their advantage sought here, that was
all.

So they go to America, not because they are there a more free, unbound listeners Creative promise,
but because they taxes and charges in the old homeland to oppressive will come over to letters and letters
from there to them with gold accounts the mouth for as long watery, until they just can not resist
any longer and now emigrate. And not to learn there, and the manners and customs to fit their
new home, they enter the foreign country, but convinced that they still need to show people there
how to sow and plowing. Their own customs, its own Ackergeräth and hand tools, so inconvenient
That may be, however little it corresponds to the local Bedingnissen,
they also may not change, not their children grown up and throw in
the towel from the house, or their distress forcing one or the other
to improve. 

So with their clothing, with the long blue skirts with
Zimmermann finger wide collar, and vast, between the skirts temporarily
moving out white linen bags, wandered out with the Hat and the colossal
shoes, and women with their short skirts and wide sleeves, the whimsical
covers, wattirten thick, thick jackets and pleated skirts thousand
times as come to those that, until they change even the smallest of
them, and they do it for yourself, put it this and that from, and
this and that for this, the way she's still wearing the same, and
the German is out in no time. In attempting to defend himself from the attack of those
who sought to throw him down, the warrior necessarily left his upper person exposed; when advantage
was taken to close with him and deprive him of the play of his arms. It was not, however, without
considerable difficulty, that they succeeded in disarming and binding his hands; after which
a strong cord being fastened round his waist, he was tightly lashed to a gun, which, contrary
to the original intention of the governor, had been sent out with the expedition. The retreat
of the detachment then commenced rapidly; but it was not without being hotly pursued by the
band of warriors the yell of Wacousta had summoned in pursuit, that they finally gained the
fort: under what feelings of sorrow for the fate of an officer so beloved, we leave it to our
readers to imagine.

CHAPTER XII.

The morning of the next day dawned on few who had pressed their customary couches--on none,
whose feverish pulse and bloodshot eye failed to attest the utter sleeplessness in which the
night had been passed. Numerous groups of men were to be seep assembling after the reveille,
in various parts of the barrack square--those who had borne a part in the recent expedition
commingling with those who had not, and recounting to the latter, with mournful look and voice,
the circumstances connected with the bereavement of their universally lamented officer. As
none, however, had seen the blow struck that deprived him of life, although each had heard
the frantic exclamations of a voice that had been recognised for Ellen Halloway's, much of
the marvellous was necessarily mixed up with truth in their narrative,--some positively affirming
Mr. de Haldimar had not once quitted his party, and declaring that nothing short of a supernatural
agency could have transported him unnoticed to the fatal spot, where, in their advance, they
had beheld him murdered. The singular appearance of Ellen Halloway also, at that moment, on
the very bridge on which she had pronounced her curse on the family of De Haldimar, and in
company with the terrible and mysterious being who had borne her off in triumph on that occasion
to the forest, and under circumstances calculated to excite the most superstitious impressions,
was not without its weight in determining their rude speculations; and all concurred in opinion,
that the death of the unfortunate young officer was a judgment on their colonel for the little
mercy he had extended to the noble-hearted Halloway.

Then followed allusion to their captive, whose gigantic stature and efforts at escape, tremendous
even as the latter were, were duly exaggerated by each, with the very laudable view of claiming
a proportionate share of credit for his own individual exertions; and many and various were
the opinions expressed as to the manner of death he should be made to suffer. Among the most
conspicuous of the orators were those with whom our readers have already made slight acquaintance
in our account of the sortie by Captain Erskine's company for the recovery of the supposed
body of Frederick de Haldimar. One was for impaling him alive, and setting him up to rot on
the platform above the gate. Another for blowing him from the muzzle of a twenty-four pounder,
into the centre of the first band of Indians that approached the fort, that thus perceiving
they had lost the strength and sinew of their cunning war, they might be the more easily induced
to propose terms of peace. A third was of opinion he ought to be chained to the top of the
flag-staff, as a target, to be shot at with arrows only, contriving never to touch a mortal
part. A fourth would have had him tied naked over the sharp spikes that constituted the chevaux-de-frize
garnishing the sides of the drawbridge. Each devised some new death--proposed some new torture;
but all were of opinion, that simply to be shot, or even to be hanged, was too merciful a punishment
for the wretch who had so wantonly and inhumanly butchered the kind-hearted, gentle-mannered
officer, whom they had almost all known and loved from his very boyhood; and they looked forward,
with mingled anxiety and vengeance, to the moment when, summoned as it was expected he shortly
would be, before the assembled garrison, he would be made to expiate the atrocity with his blood.

While the men thus gave indulgence to their indignation and their grief, their officers were
even mere painfully affected. The body of the ill-fated Charles had been borne to his apartment,
where, divested of its disguise, it had again been inducted in such apparel as was deemed suited
to the purpose. Extended on the very bed on which he lay at the moment when she, whose maniac
raving, and forcible detention, had been the immediate cause of his destruction, had preferred
her wild but fruitless supplication for mercy, he exhibited, even in death, the same delicate
beauty that had characterised him on that occasion; yet, with a mildness and serenity of expression
on his still, pale features, strongly in contrast with the agitation and glow of excitement
that then distinguished him. Never was human loveliness in death so marked as in Charles de
Haldimar; and but for the deep wound that, dividing his clustering locks, had entered from
the very crown of the head to the opening of his marble brow, one ignorant of his fate might
have believed he but profoundly slept. Several women of the regiment were occupied in those
offices about the corpse, which women alone are capable of performing at such moments, and
as they did so, suffered their tears to flow silently yet abundantly over him, who was no longer
sensible either of human grief or of human joy. Close at the head of the bed stood an old man,
with his face buried in his hands; the latter reposing against the wainscoting of the room.
He, too, wept, but his weeping was more audible, more painful, and accompanied by suffocating
sobs. It was the humble, yet almost paternally attached servant of the defunct--the veteran
Morrison.

Around the bed were grouped nearly all the officers, standing in attitudes indicative of anxiety
and interest, and gazing mournfully on the placid features of their ill-fated friend. All,
on entering, moved noiselessly over the rude floor, as though fearful of disturbing the repose
of one who merely slumbered; and the same precaution was extended to the brief but heartfelt
expressions of sorrow that passed, from one to the other, as they gazed on all that remained
of the gentle De Haldimar. At length the preparations of the women having been completed, they
retired from the room, leaving one of their number only, rather out of respect than necessity,
to remain by the corpse. When they were departed, this woman, the wife of one of Blessington's
sergeants, and the same who had been present at the scene between Ellen Halloway and the deceased,
cut off a large lock of his beautiful hair, and separating it into small tresses, handed one
to each of the officers. This considerate action, although unsolicited on the part of the latter,
deeply touched them, as indicating a sense of the high estimation in which the youth bad been
held. It was a tribute to the memory of him they mourned, of the purest kind; and each, as
he received his portion, acknowledged with a mournful but approving look, or nod, or word,
the motive that bad prompted the offering. Nor was it a source of less satisfaction, melancholy
even as that satisfaction was, to perceive that, after having set aside another lock, probably
for the sister of the deceased, she selected and consigned to the bosom of her dress a third,
evidently intended for herself. The whole scene was in striking contrast with the almost utter
absence of all preparation or concern that had preceded the interment of Murphy, on a former
occasion. In one, the rude soldier was mourned,--in the other, the gentle friend was lamented;
nor the latter alone by the companions to whom intimacy had endeared him, but by those humbler
dependants, who knew him only through those amiable attributes of character, which were ever
equally extended to all. Gradually the officers now moved away in the same noiseless manner
in which they had approached, either in pursuance of their several duties, or to make their
toilet of the morning. Two only of their number remained near the couch of death.

"Poor unfortunate De Haldimar!" observed one of these, in a low tone, as if speaking to himself;
"too fatally, indeed, have your forebodings been realised; and what I considered as the mere
despondency of a mind crashed into feebleness by an accumulation of suffering, was, after all,
but the first presentiment of a death no human power might avert. By Heaven! I would give up
half my own being to be able to reanimate that form once more,--but the wish is vain."

"Who shall announce the intelligence to his sister?" sighed his companion. "Never will that
already nearly heart-broken girl be able to survive the shock of her brother's death. Blessington,
you alone are fitted to such a task; and, painful as it is, you must undertake it. Is the colonel
apprised of the dreadful truth, do you know?"

"He is. It was told him at the moment of our arrival last night; but from the little outward
emotion displayed by him, I should be tempted to infer he had almost anticipated some such
catastrophe."

"Poor, poor Charles!" bitterly exclaimed Sir Everard Valletort--for it was he. "What would
I not give to recall the rude manner in which I spurned you from me last night. But, alas!
what could I do, laden with such a trust, and pursued, without the power of defence, by such
an enemy? Little, indeed, did I imagine what was so speedily to be your doom! Blessington,"
he pursued, with increased emotion, "it grieves me to wretchedness to think that he, whom I
loved as though he had been my twin brother, should have perished with his last thoughts, perhaps,
lingering on the seeming unkindness with which I had greeted him after so anxious an absence."

"Nay, if there be blame, it must attach to me," sorrowfully observed Captain Blessington. "Had
Erskine and myself not retired before the savage, as we did, our unfortunate friend would in
all probability have been alive at this very hour. But in our anxiety to draw the former into
the ambuscade we had prepared for him, we utterly overlooked that Charles was not retreating
with us."

"How happened it," demanded Sir Everard, his attention naturally directed to the subject by
the preceding remarks, "that you lay thus in ambuscade, when the object of the expedition,
as solicited by Frederick de Haldimar, was an attempt to reach us in the encampment of the
Indians?"

"It certainly was under that impression we left the fort; but, on coming to the spot where
the friendly Indian lay waiting to conduct us, he proposed the plan we subsequently adopted
as the most likely, not only to secure the escape of the prisoners, whom he pledged himself
to liberate, but to defend ourselves with advantage against Wacousta and the immediate guard
set over them, should they follow in pursuit. Erskine approving, as well as myself, of the
plan, we halted at the bridge, and disposed of our men under each extremity; so that, if attacked
by the Indians in front, we might be enabled to throw them into confusion by taking them in
rear, as they flung themselves upon the bridge. The event seemed to answer our expectations.
The alarm raised in the encampment satisfied us the young Indian had contrived to fulfil his
promise; and we momentarily looked for the appearance of those whose flight we naturally supposed
would be directed towards the bridge. To our great surprise, however, we remarked that the
sounds of pursuit, instead of approaching us, seemed to take an opposite direction, apparently
towards the point whence we had seen the prisoners disembarked in the morning. At length, when
almost tempted to regret we had not pushed boldly on, in conformity with our first intention,
we heard the shrill cries of a woman; and, not long afterwards, the sounds of human feet rushing
down the slope. What our sensations were, you may imagine; for we all believed it to be either
Clara or Madeline de Haldimar fleeing alone, and pursued by our ferocious enemies. To show
ourselves would, we were sensible, be to ensure the death of the pursued, before we could possibly
come up; and, although it was with difficulty we repressed the desire to rush forward to the
rescue, our better judgment prevailed. Finally we saw you approach, followed closely by what
appeared to be a mere boy of an Indian, and, at a considerable distance, by the tall warrior
of the Fleur de lis. We imagined there was time enough for you to gain the bridge; and finding
your more formidable pursuer was only accompanied by the youth already alluded to, conceived
at that moment the design of making him our prisoner. Still there were half a dozen muskets
ready to be levelled on him should he approach too near to his fugitives, or manifest any other
design than that of simply recapturing them. How well our plan succeeded you are aware; but,
alas!" and he glanced sorrowfully at the corpse, "why was our success to be embittered by so
great a sacrifice?"

"Ah, would to Heaven that he at least had been spared," sighed Sir Everard, as he took the
wan white hand of his friend in his own; "and yet I know not: he looks so calm, so happy in
death, it is almost selfish to repine he has escaped the horrors that still await us in this
dreadful warfare. But what of Frederick and Madeline de Haldimar? From the statement you have
given, they must have been liberated by the young Ottawa before he came to me; yet, what could
have induced them to have taken a course of flight so opposite to that which promised their
only chance of safety?"

"Heaven only knows," returned Captain Blessington. "I fear they have again been recaptured
by the savages; in which case their doom is scarcely doubtful; unless, indeed, our prisoner
of last night be given up in exchange for them."

"Then will their liberty be purchased at a terrible price," remarked the baronet. "Will you
believe, Blessington, that that man, whose enmity to our colonel seems almost devilish, was
once an officer in this very regiment?"

"You astonish me, Valletort.--Impossible! and yet it has always been apparent to me they were
once associates."

"I heard him relate his history only last night to Clara, whom he had the audacity to sully
with proposals to become his bride," pursued the baronet. "His tale was a most extraordinary
one. He narrated it, however, only up to the period when the life of De Haldimar was attempted
by him at Quebec. But with his subsequent history we are all acquainted, through the fame of
his bloody atrocities in all the posts that have fallen into the hands of Ponteac. That man,
savage and even fiendish as he now is, was once possessed of the noblest qualities. I am sorry
to say it; but Colonel de Haldimar has brought this present affliction upon himself. At some
future period I will tell you all."

"Alas!" said Captain Blessington, "poor Charles, then, has been made to pay the penalty of
his father's errors; and, certainly, the greatest of these was his dooming the unfortunate
Halloway to death in the manner he did."

"What think you of the fact of Halloway being the nephew of this extraordinary man, and both
of high family?" demanded Sir Everard.

"Indeed! and was the latter, then, aware of the connection?"

"Not until last night," replied Sir Everard. "Some observations made by the wretched wife of
Halloway, in the course of which she named his true name, (which was that of the warrior also,)
first indicated the fact to the latter. But, what became of that unfortunate creature?--was
she brought in?"

"I understand not," said Captain Blessington. "In the confusion and hurry of securing our prisoner,
and the apprehension of immediate attack from his warriors, Ellen was entirely overlooked.
Some of my men say they left her lying, insensible, on the spot whence they had raised the
body of our unfortunate friend, which they had some difficulty in releasing from her convulsive
embrace. But, hark! there is the first drum for parade, and I have not yet exchanged my Indian
garb."

Captain Blessington now quitted the room, and Sir Everard, relieved from the restraining presence
of his companions, gave free vent to his emotion, throwing himself upon the body of his friend,
and giving utterance to the feelings of anguish that oppressed his heart.

He had continued some minutes in this position, when he fancied he felt the warm tears of a
human being bedewing a hand that reposed on the neck of his unfortunate friend. He looked up,
and, to his infinite surprise, beheld Clara de Haldimar standing before him at the opposite
side of the bed. Her likeness to her brother, at that moment, was so striking, that, for a
second or two, the irrepressible thought passed through the mind of the officer, it was not
a living being he gazed upon, but the immaterial spirit of his friend. The whole attitude and
appearance of the wretched girl, independently of the fact of her noiseless entrance, tended
to favour the delusion. Her features, of an ashy paleness, seemed fixed, even as those of the
corpse beneath him; and, but for the tears that coursed silently down her cheek, there was
scarcely an outward evidence of emotion. Her dress was a simple white robe, fastened round
her waist with a pale blue riband; and over her shoulders hung her redundant hair, resembling
in colour, and disposed much in the manner of that of her brother, which had been drawn negligently
down to conceal the wound on his brow. For some moments the baronet gazed at her in speechless
agony. Her tranquil exterior was torture to him; for he, feared it betokened some alienation
of reason. He would have preferred to witness the most hysteric convulsion of grief, rather
than that traitorous calm; and yet he had not the power to seek to remove it.

"You are surprised to see me here, mingling my grief with yours, Sir Everard," she at length
observed, with the same calm mien, and in tones of touching sweetness. "I came, with my father's
permission, to take a last farewell of him whose death has broken my heart. I expected to be
alone; but--Nay, do not go," she added, perceiving that the officer was about to depart. "Had
you not been here, I should have sent for you; for we have both a sacred duty to perform. May
I not ask your hand?"

More and more dismayed at her collected manner, the young officer gazed at her with the deepest
sorrow depicted in every line of his own countenance. He extended his hand, and Clara, to his
surprise, grasped and pressed it firmly.

"It was the wish of this poor boy that his Clara should be the wife of his friend, Sir Everard.
Did he ever express such to you?"

"It was the fondest desire of his heart," returned the baronet, unable to restrain the emotion
of joy that mingled, despite of himself, with his worst apprehensions.

"I need not ask how you received his proposal," continued Clara, with the same calmness of
manner. "Last night," she pursued solemnly, "I was the bride of the murderer of my brother,
of the lover of my mother,--tomorrow night I may be the bride of death; but to-night I am the
bride of my brother's friend. Yes, here am I come to pledge myself to the fulfilment of his
wish. If you deem a heart-broken girl not unworthy of you, I am your wife, Sir Everard; and,
recollect, it is a solemn pledge, that which a sister gives over the lifeless body of a brother,
beloved as this has been."

"Oh, Clara--dearest Clara," passionately exclaimed the excited young man, "if a life devoted
to your happiness can repay you for this, count upon it as you would upon your eternal salvation.
In you will I love both my friend and the sister he has bequeathed to me. Clara, my betrothed
wife, summon all the energies of your nature to sustain this cruel shock; and exert yourself
for him who will be to you both a brother and a husband."

As he spoke he drew the unresisting girl towards him, and, locking her in his embrace, pressed,
for the first time, the lips, which it had maddened him the preceding night to see polluted
by the forcible kisses of Wacousta. But Clara shared not, but merely suffered his momentary
happiness. Her cheek wore not the crimson of excitement, neither were her tears discontinued.
She seemed as one who mechanically submitted to what she had no power of resistance to oppose;
and even in the embrace of her affianced husband, she exhibited the same deathlike calm that
had startled him at her first appearance. Religion could not hallow a purer feeling than that
which had impelled the action of the young officer. The very consciousness of the sacred pledge
having been exchanged over the corpse of his friend, imparted a holiness of fervour to his
mind; and even while he pressed her, whom he secretly swore to love with all the affection
of a fond brother and a husband united, he felt that if the spirit of him, who slept unconscious
of the scene, were suffered to linger near, it would be to hallow it with approval.

"And now," said Clara at length, yet without attempting to disengage herself,--"now that we
are united, I would be alone with my brother. My husband, leave me."

Deeply touched at the name of husband, Sir Everard could not refrain from imprinting another
kiss on the lips that uttered it. He then gently disengaged himself from his lovely but suffering
charge, whom he deposited with her head resting on the bed; and making a significant motion
of his hand to the woman, who, as well as old Morrison, had been spectators of the whole scene,
stole gently from the apartment, under what mingled emotions of joy and grief it would be difficult
to describe.

CHAPTER XIII.

It was the eighth hour of morning, and both officers and men, quitting their ill-relished meal,
were to be seen issuing to the parade, where the monotonous roll of the assemblee now summoned
them. Presently the garrison was formed in the order we have described in our first volume;
that is to say, presenting three equal sides of a square. Nothing like a mounted messenger, and if you are from Oakland Grove
do you have to either walk or ride. Your luggage may be, however, to I put in the house. "

"That
would be terrible," cried Mademoiselle Seebald.

"Oh it is definitely there," said Charley.

"No, I mean the way on foot or on horseback to make, - I have never been on a horse sat. "

"That's easy," said Charley, "the left foot is in the stirrup and
the right Knee you take, you see, so - about the Knuppe up sitting
on the Saddle, then You can not fall down and hang up like a leech.

"

"And how far is the place of Little Rock?"

"Oakland Grove?"

"No, where Count Olnitzki lives?"

"Yes I really do not know exactly," Charley said, shrugging, "I'm
on the direction not yet come out, but then you have to take one leader
with horses, and your husband - you're married, if I may ask?

"

The question came so suddenly that Amalie of Seebald blushed involuntarily about it but smile
answered:

"No, I'm not married."

"But you have at any rate monitoring," said Charley.

"I'm all alone," replied the lady.

"All alone? - And do all alone in the woods "?

"And why not?"

"Now listen, you not mind me," said Charley, a friendly smile, "that
is for now but probably only your fun?

"

"But why in God's name?" Asked Mademoiselle de Seebald really worried about the whole Essence
of the man - "what can happen for me in the woods? Are there still Indians? "

"Indians? - No, the river may store some, but to be under supervision and are harmless. "

"Or wild animals?"

"Well, there are probably as bears and panthers, but there is seldom like that someone have
been incurred. "

"What else should I then stop?"

"Ih now said yes," Mr Fischer - "it is true, it would have, but -
I do not know yet; I do not want alone and without a gun to Oakland
Grove, and from there further into the forest go in, and I am now
twelve years in Arkansas.

In general, it is nowhere better than in Little Rock, which is a
capital spot and should not surprise me at all if it would once the
first city in the Union.

After Charley Fischer is in place, because I have a whole party of purchased lots, and the
need to even get a hopeless value. "

"But it has yet incredibly romantic lot, all alone through the woods to go," said Miss of Seebald.

"Romantic,
you dear God replied," shrugged the little practical man, "the buying I dear not because that does
not pay.

've Known several people here - also German young cute guys that their forces would turn to what
can be reasonable, which also did just continue to do nothing than
in the forest with a rifle running around alone, only a few ragged
Deer and the little romance for.

What's happened to them afterwards? - Had more Nothing she was wearing when her leather hunting
shirt and leggings, while the Moccasins Feet and not a cent in your pocket, or even a pocket in
itself, a dime into it to do, like maybe their ball bags, and after they brought trouble and
need fur together just enough to pay their passage on a steamer to get away again. The Devil take
such a romantic - ne as I praise Little Rock. "

"And you know the Count Olnitzki not personally? - Were never there in the area? "

"No, Madame - Mademoiselle I wanted to say, but you know, with the count here not mean much. "

"How so, is he bad?" Asked Amelia quickly and frightened.

"To whom? the Olnitzki? yes, I do not know - no, I mean just with the title at all. Knowledge
You, here in America we are all equal - all free citizens, much like
the one the other, and if I wanted to call me for fun Graf Charley
Fischer, and no one would have something dawieder, I would just count
Charley Fischer, and when people come to me and drink a glass of brandy
wanted, they would beat me as now on their shoulders and say, 'nu
Earl Fischer, old House, how are you, how do you Thut you?

""

"I do not believe that Count Olnitzki entitled to a higher position of power," said Miss of
Seebald.

"No, I can think of," Charley said kindly, would "help him do nothing, especially not here in
Arkansas. We have here the way a lot of Poland, as is the Count Doraski the Red River and the
count Potelsk - Podelscyk - well as he is for, like, cursed Names
who have sometimes Poland, and the Americans are right when they say
you could they speak only when you sneezed three times and then ski
said - well never mind, as he means.

Strange, only by Poland are loudly count to come here, because if
you find a Pole You can rely also found out that there is a secret
count, it has a tremendous amount Count enter the country.

"

"How are the only conditions of the settlers here in the near Little
Rock?"

Asked Miss Seebald of which it urged something more to hear about her lying at the heart of
man, "They come sometimes, on Sundays, perhaps, in the city, theater or concert? - Germans
do not have the balls to each other or other celebrations in which they together and are happy?
the forest life, I think my wonderful, wonderful, but the Most beautiful but sometimes need a change.
"

»Balls? - Yes, we have sometimes found among the Germans, "Charley Fisher laughed merrily to himself,
perhaps in the memories of many hours it defunct, "and do amuse they beat it in the beginning
and at the end, just like at home, but if the , Especially the farmers, wegwohnen so far, wanted
to come in because they had much to do. Yes, the men who ride her sometimes, are [4] and probably
a few days and verthun what they have brought in. of products, sometimes even with the what
they call the next do take time, but the women stay home and keep her and her children, and
have here do their hands full. "

"But then the neighbors come together probably along very often."

"Yes, if they have neighbors, the neighborhood in Arkansas but will
get the executioner," said Charley - "who call themselves so, and
if they sit twenty miles of each other."

"This is a proof for their conviviality," smiled Miss von Seebald.

Yes nice social life, if no one lives in between, "said Charley -" ne, as I praise Little Rock
me, because if I no longer my own tastes Brandy, I go around the corner around to George and
drink as others, and all the weeks to come a few steam boats the current up or down, bring
something new, and where you get to hear something and see. 'Tis a very splendid set of life in
Little Rock. "

Mademoiselle Seebald felt, although her the strange German does not
directly yours could say, and they lived at least in quite different
circumstances as he described here, but uncomfortable because of this
description, they really knew themselves not quite so.

It was also desired that her conversation with at the moment rang the bell in the cabin, the signal for
lunch, was canceled, and they retired with a slight bow of thanks to Mr. Fischer, the latter
with a friendly nod, "answered back in the ladies cabin, where the afternoon round indulge their
own reflections and thoughts.

The boat, however, was quickly and bravely continued his way, the scenery remained the same
- Forest - Endless forest on both sides, which even in small towns
scattered singly, they found, to draw close to her that seemed as
if he again raised fresh is, since they were taken, and demanded the
land back, they pushed him.

The next day, towards evening, they reached Little Rock, and the broad and far-hewn Clearing betrayed
from afar a larger settlement, as they met so far. As they came nearer they saw large handsome
stone building, but often find little modern wooden huts, and a steam ferry was playing on
the river to the other shore. Also, the landing-place, against whom they ran aground now offered,
but not with New Orleans to compare, but the animated image of a large, bustling city that
here in the heart pushed carts leaders of all colors, of an otherwise still fairly wild state
were continue to bring goods and Passagiergut, as soon as the rope is ejected and the planks
would be pushed over, and a lot of impatient, as in all landing points on complete power down,
waited with longing for the moment, where they could jump on board, new and News to make and
receive, or lean in against the city reports.

Mademoiselle Seebald but was now really at a loss, because in the firm conviction and anything else
possible to speak when that post office but at least the week few times after that settlement,
who lived on her sister run up had they had all their luggage, three suitcases and several hat boxes
with a few small boxes that Gifts for sister and brother-contained, taken on board the steamer.
How should they carry them now, in the woods? and they had to continue because she needed as
she thought, there all necessarily what they contained.

Charley Fischer helped her because the way as the first landing only survived, he and all his thousand
friends and welcomes them, as he called it, had geschäkt Hands [5], of necessity, first, for he
was not a man anyone, from which he draw any benefit hoped to be disregarded, but also the good-natured
complacency against women themselves, and believed still to the double interest to take a
traveling companion have to. therefore hardly come up in the city, he found himself already, putting
everything else, however, disregard, the most eager for a possible opportunity to Oakland to
grove, to which the landing own the best place was because there
almost all the guest hosts, or at least people of them, in the Arrival
of a steamer came along.

Coincidentally, in fact, a dish - but only an ordinary ladder truck from Rose Mores (a farm,
a short distance above the Oakland Grove was) in Little Rock, had butter, eggs, smoked deer culling
and other Products brought in, and took flour, coffee, sugar, brandy, etc., etc., in short
commissions were not to get there, go out with you again. The truck driver was the next morning
go with the first ferry across the river, and because he only had half a charge against the
pleasure a moderate compensation for the things the lady to take up to Billy Jones clearing "of which
range from a foot or horse trail to Old Nitzkys as the man the name of Count Olnitzki mistreated,
ran over. The lady wanted to go to Billy Jones with his car, it was "they perfectly welcome,"
that is, it was her pleasure with your service, and through one or two arms full of corn shells had
already prepared for the North a fairly comfortable fit.

Charley Fischer ran back without delay with this "good news" on board, where Mademoiselle Seebald
just in considerable uncertainty was whether they use the card of Mr. Charley Fischer, or their
baggage should be a different guest house can provide, the huge company
they already across the street saw light.

Pleasing appearance of the little man decided this in his favor, the suitcases and boxes were
loaded, and the young lady was soon thereafter in a small bare uncomfortable, not neat room
on Pinestreet, in which it was soon visited by the friendly hostess and support themselves her
toilet to supper, which consisted of a very good meal with tea compakt to prepare.

Charley Fischer had used now only too glad of this opportunity, from its all just a guest Possible
to get over their living conditions, particularly the purpose of
their trip out because when a young lady made such a journey alone,
certainly had something to mean very bizarre.

Now, he said Mademoiselle Seebald but simply that they only came to Arkansas, her, sister
married to Count Olnitzki to visit, but he does not believe her, of course, and then tried something
even more mysterious at the visit. The willing and generous while he with his own life story
was, the more it annoyed him, of course, if others do not retaliate in kind wanted. Mademoiselle
Seebald was tired from the trip, both when they were also attacked from the excitement of recent
days, awaiting the hoped-for reunion contrary, felt and looked therefore time their camp. Charley
Fischer promised to raise the way, leave them where they should find the breakfast ready and
still early enough to the first ferry to come. The Fuhrman had promised this in his house, where
he also has his habitual morning draft took to drive up, and neglect was not therefore possible.

The
morning came, things were done before the house, especially the two small boxes back again,
and again recommended caution because they contain fragile things, Miss of Seebald had their travel
toilet as the breakfast ended, its not over-bill paid for a glass of brandy and sugar, their their
friendly host to the most persistent against the raw morning air intrude sought, refused again
and again, the car came, the Matters have been charged, and Charley
Fischer did not take it to Mademoiselle Seebald to reach out his arm
and they accompany the ferry down.

However, had the two figures for our German terms, perhaps a little looked odd together, and
Mademoiselle de Seebald himself felt so uncomfortable as possible in the company, they could
not refuse good. Namely, the lady was quite modern, and even dressed fashionably, with a bright
gown of raw silk, and fine straw hat and a dark red silk sash round,
while Charley, however in a somewhat short shone and not overly clean
linen skirt, under which a few also something short striped woolen
trousers peeping.

He wore this shoe and woolen socks or yellow Rather socks that were not mentioned as he explained,
he did however do what he wanted, and the old straw hat covered his hair still as on the ship,
only a pure yellow and red striped shirt he had that morning, dressed, and a juice-blue silk Cloth
tied about. In America is something like this but not on, we can even see, even in the largest
cities, the women very often on the arm of a gentleman who in a short white linen Jacket goes
rushing in velvet and silk incidentally, the dress is not there the man, but the man's dress.

Nothing was less and despite the early hour of Miss Seebald convinced that the eyes of all the
residents of Little Rock, at the windows they passed, in ridicule and curiosity were fixed
upon her, and thanked her God, as the ferry or Ferry boat finally reached where Mr. Charley Fischer
on the earnestly of their adopted, as they also asked him your wife's
sister, though an unknown way, kindly recommended.

The small ferry was steaming over the rather wide stream, the more the light morning mist in thin,
divided here and there by a gleaming ray of sunshine clouds lay,
and also the opposite side edge covered.

Only a low number, hella coated, square Wooden houses were as visible, which are covered with huge
shields, and if that was possible would be defaced, the top of the steep bank of bank crowned,
and turn, from the high tops of majestic giant cotton wood trees were topped. This small City
here that the growing Little Rock owed their origin was almost one and Schenk stands alone - so-called
"groceries and provision stores," where, in addition to all possible
life needs, which spirituous beverages were the main constituent,
but it looked new and ugly, like a box of freshly packaged Nuremberg
Spielwaaren in a number found on the living rainforest it shook her
head and sighing it recognized the canker, which ate further and further
into his side.

Mademoiselle Seebald, regarded by the curious people on board, while a single so elegantly
dressed strange lady not as often and soon saw between them, enveloped by the way, without
associating with any one, firm in her shawl - the morning air blew fresh and cool about the
current - and watched intently for the other shore across, which they quickly meet desired.

Ha, what was that? - Down at the beach - just below the high, steep, rugged sixteen-foot well
Lehmbank rising up and hidden far from the deep striking fog, which, as they approached the land divided,
or at least more transparent has been submitted, a Scene before the
astonished gaze of the young lady, as her most daring, romantic imagination
would only have been able to conjure up.

"Indians," she exclaimed, almost involuntarily aloud, for the whole
bank was covered there, animated from a wild swarm of brown, half-naked
figures, the leather part, under low Tents, encamped just had to have
part of small fires.

Neighing horses and galloped at the waterside, children jumped and
shouted in and along the water, where they bathed and played, women
cooked, or were carrying wood, the other down the top of the bank
bank dropped, and the men sat silent and indifferent partly from the
fires, smoking her pipe, or stood on the shore, to await the arrival
of the steamer.

"Life here is Indian?" Asked Mademoiselle de Seebald surprised one of the standing next to her
People who leaned on the deck surrounding the bar grille, and also
to the natives over looked.

"No, Madame," said the man, without changing his position, "Thank God that we Red skins are going,
we would create nothing more than devil's eggs in the nests.

Get it all with one another the evil. "

"But what Thünen it here?"

"The da? - From hiking - the Seminoles are that Uncle Sam [6] after the territory sends there with
their friends, the Creeks and Cherokees, and the Chocktaws Kickapuhs and how they all mean so
well tolerated as they can just - or even better, each other the necks cut off - that spared what they
could do to the world of God. "

"You do not love the Indians."

"I? - No, the sky is my witness - have also just no reason for it, and less Lust - if I did
something to destroy the whole race with one stroke of the earth, I þæt's. "

The man was directed to from his position and walked slowly to the other side of the Decks,
as if he wanted to see not even the red men, so long as it's preventing could. He saw it in
so dark and bitterly that Miss Seebald was glad of, its be removed
from society uncanny soon.

The boat, however, did his usual landing place, a huge fortified there flat-roofed boat, gently
on the harness and horses out or brought on board were able to, and the Indians, especially the
children, half shy, half curious crowd around the square, gathered there to see off the strange
white men and women. The children were almost all the naked, but the adults wore a scarf around
the hips, and usually a leather or calico hunting shirt, his hair tied in a bunch of this, individuals
with ornaments, two in it with an eagle feather. Only the women stayed back, so here at their
campfires, and hardly looked around for the rapidly exhaust the steam boat end, or the white people
- they had seen enough of them, probably more than they liked, and they were from home sold and
delivered to a foreign unknown country cold - as they could because
looking forward to being hated.

The men looked very quiet and dark, and where they One of the White spoke to, they turned from them
and walked sullenly their camp again.

There were noble, powerful figures among them, some with severe, barely
healed wounds the wide brown breast, and bravely fought this war in
their country, every inch of ground the white invaders with tomahawk
and rifle a quarrel; yes more years would pale faces, they often sent
home with broken heads and in the camp itself, they reflect as many
nights the battle cry and the bare chest bold and todtesmuthig threw
against the bayonets, led their troops against them in vain it they
had the treason can face as much as the cold steel.

But their chief fell - the brave Osceola, treacherously against the Americans from war and human
rights captured, where he the word of the white man's familiar, died miserably in prison -
Other Chiefs were purchased, and the banner of the States added a
star to his bloody white.

"Well madam, if you want to climb now,"
interrupted because of the charioteer, the dishes are was happy to
board the flat boat and taken away on solid land, the Views of his
traveling companion - "the horses are rested and pull's can already
and here's to go up but bad for such tender feet. "

Mademoiselle
Seebald would like to stay here any longer, the life and activities
of the Indians to see more and perhaps even engage in a conversation
with them, broken Should at least speak English but many of them. Holding Clara before him as a shield, through which
the bullets of his enemies must pass before they could attain him, he impelled his gigantic
form with a backward movement towards the opposite bank, which he rapidly ascended; and, still
fronting his enemies, commenced his flight in that manner with a speed which (considering the
additional weight of the drenched garments of both) was inconceivable. The course taken by
him was not through the town, but circuitously across the common until he arrived on that immediate
line whence, as we have before stated, the bridge was distinctly visible from the rampart;
on which, nearly the whole of the remaining troops, in defiance of the presence of their austere
chief, were now eagerly assembled, watching, with unspeakable interest, the progress of the chase.

Desperate as were the exertions of Wacousta, who evidently continued this mode of flight from
a conviction that the instant his person was left exposed the fire-arms of his pursuers would
be brought to bear upon him, the two officers in front, animated by the most extraordinary
exertions, were rapidly gaining upon him. Already was one within fifty yards of him, when a
loud yell was heard from the bridge. This was fiercely answered by the fleeing man, and in
a manner that implied his glad sense of coming rescue. In the wild exultation of the moment,
he raised Clara high above his head, to show her in triumph to the governor, whose person his
keen eye could easily distinguish among those crowded upon the rampart. In the gratified vengeance
of that hour, he seemed utterly to overlook the actions of those who were so near him. During
this brief scene, Sir Everard had dropped upon one knee, and supporting his elbow on the other,
aimed his rifle at the heart of the ravisher of his wife. An exulting shout burst from the
pursuing troops. Wacousta bounded a few feet in air, and placing his hand to his side, uttered
another yell, more appalling than any that had hitherto escaped him. His flight was now uncertain
and wavering. He staggered as one who had received a mortal wound; and discontinuing his unequal
mode of retreat, turned his back upon his pursuers, and threw all his remaining energies into
a final effort at escape.

Inspirited by the success of his shot, and expecting momentarily to see him fall weakened with
the loss of blood, the excited Valletort redoubled his exertions. To his infinite joy, he found
that the efforts of the fugitive became feebler at each moment Johnstone was about twenty paces
behind him, and the pursuing party at about the same distance from Johnstone. The baronet had
now reached his enemy, and already was the butt of his rifle raised with both hands with murderous
intent, when suddenly Wacousta, every feature distorted with rage and pain, turned like a wounded
lion at bay, and eluding the blow, deposited the unconscious form of his victim upon the sward.
Springing upon his infinitely weaker pursuer, he grappled him furiously by the throat, exclaiming
through his clenched teeth:--

"Nay then, since you will provoke your fate--be it so. Die like a dog, and be d--d, for having
balked me--of my just revenge!"

As he spoke, he hurled the gasping officer to the earth with a violence that betrayed the dreadful
excitement of his soul, and again hastened to assure himself of his prize.

Meanwhile, Lieutenant Johnstone had come up, and, seeing his companion struggling as he presumed,
with advantage, with his severely wounded enemy, made it his first care to secure the unhappy
girl; for whose recovery the pursuit had been principally instituted. Quitting his rifle, he
now essayed to raise her in his arms. She was without life or consciousness, and the impression
on his mind was that she was dead.

While in the act of raising her, the terrible Wacousta stood at his side, his vast chest heaving
forth a laugh of mingled rage and contempt. Before the officer could extricate, with a view
of defending himself, his arms were pinioned as though in a vice; and ere he could recover
from his surprise, he felt himself lifted up and thrown to a considerable distance. When he
opened his eyes a moment afterwards, he was lying amid the moving feet of his own men.

From the instant of the closing of the unfortunate Valletort with his enemy, the Indians, hastening
to the assistance of their chief, had come up, and a desultory fire had already commenced,
diverting, in a great degree, the attention of the troops from the pursued. Emboldened by this
new aspect of things Wacousta now deliberately grasped the rifle that had been abandoned by
Johnstone; and raising it to his shoulder, fired among the group collected on the ramparts.
For a moment he watched the result of his shot, and then, pealing forth another fierce yell,
he hurled the now useless weapon into the very heart of his pursuers; and again raising Clara
in his arms, once more commenced his retreat, which, under cover of the fire of his party,
was easily effected.

"Who has fallen?" demanded the governor of his adjutant, perceiving that some one had been
hit at his side, yet without taking his eyes off his terrible enemy.

"Mr. Delme, sir," was the reply. "He has been shot through the heart, and his men are bearing
him from the rampart."

"This must not be," resumed the governor with energy. "Private feelings must no longer be studied
at the expense of the public good. That pursuit is hopeless; and already too many of my officers
have fallen. Desire the retreat to be sounded, Mr. Lawson. Captain Wentworth, let one or two
covering guns be brought to bear upon the savages. They are gradually increasing hi numbers;
and if we delay, the party will be wholly cut off."

In issuing these orders, Colonel de Haldimar evinced a composedness that astonished all who
heard him. But although his voice was calm, despair was upon his brow. Still he continued to
gaze fixedly on the retreating form of his enemy, until he finally disappeared behind the orchard
of the Canadian of the Fleur de lis.

Obeying the summons from the fort, the troops without now commenced their retreat, bearing
off the bodies of their fallen officers and several of their comrades who had fallen by the
Indian fire. There was a show of harassing them on their return; but they were too near the
fort to apprehend much danger. Two or three well-directed discharges of artillery effectually
checked the onward progress of the savages; and, in the course of a minute, they had again
wholly disappeared.

In gloomy silence, and with anger and disappointment in their hearts, the detachment now re-entered
the fort. Johnstone was only severely bruised; Sir Everard Valletort not dead. Both were conveyed
to the same room, where they were instantly attended by the surgeon, who pronounced the situation
of the latter hopeless.

Major Blackwater, Captains Blessington and Erskine, Lieutenants Leslie and Boyce, and Ensigns
Fortescue and Summers, were now the only regimental officers that remained of thirteen originally
comprising the strength of the garrison. III. p. 299), complete Vespucci's complaints about the lack of nautical Knowledge
in the former sailors (Bandini p. 105). The Portuguese writer Cordeyro in his Historia insulana of the
Nuremberg sailors made communications be included with caution, firstly because Cordeyro,
like all Portuguese of his time, envious to the glory of the stranger was, and secondly, because
it otherwise no special Urtheilsschärfe and accuracy in his expressions of the day shall, as
from a comparison with the Private documents of the family Behaim, of which he had not the slightest
knowledge of course, apparent. He claimed, among other things in his Hist. ins p. 465, that Martin
Behaim had two sons, the eldest of which was commanded, and Martin had died young, also that
the Portuguese under Joa Vaz Corte Real in 1464 already a part of North America, which later
so-called Terra de Bacalhao had discovered, and relies on allusion to Gaspar Fructuosa to a royal.
Dd Evora second deed of gift April 1464, but in which not a syllable of it is that Vaz had visited
the Bacalhaoland or anything discovered. Two-time Behaim longer stay of the Azores (1486-1490
and 1494-1506) yields but just a key argument against the alleged discovery of a country of
Baccallaos (Newfoundland), for Behaim, who, as longtime residents of the Azores, but knowledge
of this have west country would have to know this discovery does not and has not on its specified
in the 1492-built Globe.


After the lapse of a minute, the tall figure of a warrior was seen to advance, holding a female
in his arms. No one could mistake, even at that distance, the gigantic proportions of Wacousta,--as
he stood in the extreme centre of the bridge, in imposing relief against the flood that glittered
like a sea of glass beyond. From his chest there now burst a single yell; but, although audible,
it was fainter than any remembered ever to have been heard from him by the garrison. He then
advanced to the extreme edge of the bridge; and, raising the form of the female far above his
head with his left hand, seemed to wave her in vengeful triumph. A second warrior was seen
upon the bridge, and stealing cautiously to the same point. The right hand of the first warrior
was now raised and brandished in air; in the next instant it descended upon the breast of the
female, who fell from his arms into the ravine beneath. Yells of triumph from the Indians,
and shouts of execration from the soldiers, mingled faintly together. At that moment the arm
of the second warrior was raised, and a blade was seen to glitter in the sunshine. His arm
descended, and Wacousta was observed to stagger forward and fall heavily into the abyss into
which his victim had the instant before been precipitated. Another loud yell, but of disappointment
and anger, was heard drowning that of exultation pealed by the triumphant warrior, who, darting
to the open extremity of the bridge, directed his flight along the margin of the river, where
a light canoe was ready to receive him. Into this he sprang, and, seizing the paddle, sent
the waters foaming from its sides; and, pursuing his way across the river, had nearly gained
the shores of Canada before a bark was to be seen following in pursuit.

How felt--how acted Colonel de Haldimar throughout this brief but terrible scene? He uttered
not a word. With his arms still folded across his breast, he gazed upon the murder of his child;
but he heaved not a groan, he shed not a tear. A momentary triumph seemed to, irradiate his
pallid features, when he saw the blow struck that annihilated his enemy; but it was again instantly
shaded by an expression of the most profound despair.

"It is done, gentlemen," he at length remarked. "The tragedy is closed, the curse of Ellen
Halloway is fulfilled, and I am--childless!--Blackwater," he pursued, endeavouring to stifle
the emotion produced by the last reflection, "pay every attention to the security of the garrison,
see that the drawbridge is again properly chained up, and direct that the duties of the troops
be prosecuted in every way as heretofore."

Leaving his officers to wonder at and pity that apathy of mind that could mingle the mere forms
of duty with the most heart-rending associations, Colonel de Haldimar now quitted the rampart;
and, with a head that was remarked for the first time to droop over his chest, paced his way
musingly to his apartments. 

"Hedwig. - "

"And your sister?"

"Clara."

"With last name?"

»Loßenwerder" said Hedwig, and as she pronounced the name of dyed her forehead and temples dark
red.

Clara Loßenwerder? Repeated Hamann.

"My name is Hedwig," said the young girl, and a separate, unexplained fear itself shot her in the
connection of these two names by heart.

"Yes, yes, Hedwig" repeated Mr. Hamann, while looking at her again,
as if it of the wanted to see inside view into the innermost heart
- "Now I will even tell you something - I like your face, although
one can not then go right, and by a pretty Company is often done behind's
light, but - we may try to try together.

Although I need such a housekeeper right now not so absolutely necessary, and would be able
to give very little reward, maybe if we make a commitment to each
other, could be's but also set up on the way until we have to both
know where we stand with each other are, would you be satisfied with
the "?

"I was no longer required," said Hedwig.

"Good, then you can get dressed today, if you want - but the nurse
bring I have not in the house, "he quickly added," It is with sick
people their own thing.

"

"But I can visit in a week, every day at least once?" Asked Hedwig.

"Between lunch and dinner is not much time," said Mr. Harman, "but the evenings after eating,
you can use as you like - so when are you coming "

"Even today I find myself a lunch," said Hedwig, "and hope from my heart that you I will be satisfied.
"

She left after a short farewell, but comfort and hope in their hearts,
the chamber while Mr Harman from the until now have not touched carafe
poured a full glass of wine, and then, again completely satisfied
with himself, his spatziergang recorded in the room.

For the composition of such a body he had feared fairly substantial wage to pay, because he could
not do a person from the crowd of emigrants , Pick out and now all probability existed that he
carried a very young pretty girl, what happened to him in any case a mass boarders to go out
into the house, and little more than nothing, for double the fare of a few women who ate a
lot and besides, not drinking could not get anything.

Fourth chapter

Different occupations.

street before the door of the inn in ---- German, were the poor Oldenburg, each a small bundle under his
arm, and looked gloomy and bleak up the street and down, which led to the north and south in the
world, the wide world. And still they had only just entered the threshold, still they took the
walk slowly, and dared did not sit down because he did not like the
old familiar ground under the felt and hang during which a sigh and
head left, the other scratched Right Hand behind the ear, and rubbed
one between halbgemurmelten curse laid on each other compressed teeth.

"In America, Chen can drive the peasants in the Kuts-" suddenly sang a well-known Voice only too
well known, but not for a long time struck up song.

"In the Kuts-tion with velvet and Sa-i-de," and when they are just happy not surprising, turned
around after the singer, just rattled the small quaint carts mulberry, from this pushed past
them, and the steam from the dirty little whistle went in huddled
Kräuselwolken short, regular exhaust pipe as a diminutive locomotive
after him. By the way, he did not, as if he were seeing the Oldenburg,
and was already past them, as he was offered the One - "Mr. Mulberry
-" was reached and stop. 

It is a peculiar feeling for a certain
time with former companions meet, of which this is a wonderful way
remains regardless of whether they have liked to go, or not at all
wrong with them, has perhaps the whole trip. What also because the
move might have happened, how to think about each other, and perhaps
especially longed to have left the ship can be in such company finally
get away, a short stay on land, the strange, unfamiliar to of him,
all this has scared away, we have forgotten it, and welcome with sincere
Joy the previous trip and fellow sufferers.

Silent and melancholy was the greeting that took place between the parties: the voice spoke
not; the hand alone was eloquent; but it was in the eloquence of sorrow only that it indulged.
Pleasure, even in this almost despaired of re-union, could not be expressed; and even the eye
shrank from mutual encounter, as if its very glance at such a moment were sacrilege. Recalled
to a sense of her situation by the preparation of the men to raise the bridge, the Indian woman
was the first to break the silence.

"The Saganaw is safe within his fort, and the girl of the pale faces will lay her head upon
his bosom," she remarked solemnly. "Oucanasta will go to her solitary wigwam among the red skins."

The heart of Madeline de Haldimar was oppressed by the weight of many griefs; yet she could
not see the generous preserver of her life, and the rescuer of the body of her ill-fated cousin,
depart without emotion. Drawing a ring, of some value and great beauty, from her finger, which
she had more than once observed the Indian to admire, she placed it on her hand; and then,
throwing herself on the bosom of the faithful creature, embraced her with deep manifestations
of affection, but without uttering a word.

Oucanasta was sensibly gratified: she raised her large eyes to heaven as if in thankfulness;
and by the light of the lantern, which fell upon her dark but expressive countenance, tears
were to be seen starting unbidden from their source.

Released from the embrace of her, whose life she had twice preserved at imminent peril to her
own, the Indian again prepared to depart; but there was another, who, like Madeline, although
stricken by many sorrows, could not forego the testimony of his heart's gratitude. Captain
de Haldimar, who, during this short scene, had despatched a messenger to his room for the purpose,
now advanced to the poor girl, bearing a short but elegantly mounted dagger, which he begged
her to deliver as a token of his friendship to the young chief her brother. He then dropped
on one knee at her feet, and raising her hand, pressed it fervently against his heart; an action
which, even to the untutored mind of the Indian, bore evidence only of the feeling that prompted
it, A heavy sigh escaped her labouring chest; and as the officer now rose and quitted her hand,
she turned slowly and with dignity from him, and crossing the drawbridge, was in a few minutes
lost in the surrounding gloom.

Our readers have, doubtless, anticipated the communication made to Major Blackwater by the
Adjutant Lawson. Bowed down to the dust by the accomplishment of the curse of Ellen Halloway,
the inflexibility of Colonel de Haldimar's pride was not proof against the utter annihilation
wrought to his hopes as a father by the unrelenting hatred of the enemy his early falsehood
and treachery had raised up to him. When the adjutant entered his apartment, the stony coldness
of his cheek attested he had been dead some hours.

We pass over the few days of bitter trial that succeeded to the restoration of Captain de Haldimar
and his bride to their friends; days, during which were consigned to the same grave the bodies
of the governor, his lamented children, and the scarcely less regretted Sir Everard Valletort.
The funeral service was attempted by Captain Blessington; but the strong affection of that
excellent officer, for three of the defunct parties at least, was not armed against the trial.
He had undertaken a task far beyond his strength; and scarcely had commenced, ere he was compelled
to relinquish the performance of the ritual to the adjutant. A large grave had been dug close
under the rampart, and near the fatal flag-staff, to receive the bodies of their deceased friends;
and, as they were lowered successively into their last earthly resting place, tears fell unrestrainedly
over the bronzed cheeks of the oldest soldiers, while many a female sob blended with and gave
touching solemnity to the scene.

On the morning of the third day from this quadruple interment, notice was given by one of the
sentinels that an Indian was approaching the fort, making signs as if in demand for a parley.
The officers, headed by Major Blackwater, now become the commandant of the place, immediately
ascended the rampart, when the stranger was at once recognised by Captain de Haldimar for the
young Ottawa, the preserver of his life, and the avenger of the deaths of those they mourned,
in whose girdle was thrust, in seeming pride, the richly mounted dagger that officer had caused
to be conveyed to him through his no less generous sister. A long conference ensued, in the
language of the Ottawas, between the parties just named, the purport of which was of high moment
to the garrison, now nearly reduced to the last extremity. The young chief had come to apprise
them, that, won by the noble conduct of the English, on a late occasion, when his warriors
were wholly in their power, Ponteac had expressed a generous determination to conclude a peace
with the garrison, and henceforth to consider them as his friends. This he had publicly declared
in a large council of the chiefs, held the preceding night; and the motive of the Ottawa's
coming was, to assure the English, that, on this occasion, their great leader was perfectly
sincere in a resolution, at which he had the more readily arrived, now that his terrible coadjutor
and vindictive adviser was no more. 

In 1788, stood here in the valley, in a wilderness inhabited by bears and buffaloes only roams from
the light-footed sons of the woods on their campaigns, was three individual Log cabins, built from
the trunks of the forest - fifty year later, the city of Cincinnati 40,000 inhabitants, [16] and from
then on, the number increased almost every year for 6000-7000. The electricity that then furrowed
almost only the slim canoe of the Indian swarming now by powerful steam boats with thin white
streaks of foam behind it, slid up and down, and everywhere stretched giant chimneys smoking, the long necks
up, active-creating Expressing life.
 As for poor Ellen Halloway, search had
been made for her, but she never was heard of afterwards.

THE END

