The name of this illustrious painter and architect was Berrettini, and he was born at Cortona,
near Florence, in 1596. At the age of fourteen he went to Rome, where he studied the works
of Raffaelle and Caravaggio with the greatest assiduity. It is said that at first he betrayed
but little talent for painting, but his genius burst forth suddenly, to the astonishment of
those companions who had laughed at his incapacity; this doubtless was owing to his previous
thorough course of study. While yet young, he painted two pictures for the Cardinal Sacchetti,
representing the Rape of the Sabines, and a Battle of Alexander, which gained him so much celebrity
that Pope Urban VIII. commissioned him to paint a chapel in the church of S. Bibiena, where
Ciampelli was employed. The latter at first regarded with contempt the audacity of so young
a man's daring to attempt so important a public work, but Cortona had no sooner commenced than
Ciampelli's disgust changed to admiration of his abilities. His success in this performance
gained him the celebrated work of the ceiling of the grand saloon in the Barberini palace,
which is considered one of the greatest productions of the kind ever executed. Cortona was
invited to Florence by the Grand Duke Ferdinand II., to paint the saloon and four apartments
in the Pitti palace, where he represented the Clemency of Alexander to the family of Darius,
the Firmness of Porsena, the Continence of Cyrus, the History of Massanissa, and other subjects.
While thus employed, the Duke, one day, having expressed his admiration of a weeping child
which he had just painted, Cortona with a single stroke of his pencil made it appear laughing,
and with another restored it to its former state; "Prince," said he, "you see how easily children
laugh and cry." Disgusted with the intrigues of some artists jealous of his reputation, he
left Florence abruptly, without completing his works, and the Grand Duke could never persuade
him to return. On his return to Rome, he abounded with commissions, and Pope Alexander VII.
honored him with the order of the Golden Spur. Cortona was also distinguished as an architect.
He made a design for the Palace of the Louvre, which was so highly approved by Louis XIV. that
he sent him his picture richly set in jewels. Cortona was a laborious artist, and though tormented
with the gout, and in affluent circumstances, he continued to paint till his death, in 1699.

"KNOW THYSELF."

Mario Ballassi, a Florentine painter born in 1604, studied successively under Ligozzi, Roselli,
and Passignano; he assisted the latter in the works he executed at Rome for Pope Urban XIII.
His chief talent lay in copying the works of the great masters, which he did to admiration.
Don Taddeo Barberini employed him to copy the Transfiguration of Raffaelle, for the Church
of the Conception, in which he imitated the touch and expression of the original in so excellent
a manner as to excite the surprise of the best judges at Rome. At the recommendation of the
Cardinal Piccolomini, he was introduced to the Emperor Ferdinand III., who received him in
an honorable manner. Elated with his success, he vainly imagined that if he could imitate the
old masters, he could also equal them in an original style of his own. He signally failed in
the attempt, which brought him into as much contempt as his former works had gained him approbation.

BENVENUTO CELLINI.

