The breakfast of Lady Margaret Bellenden no more resembled a modern dejune, than the great
stone-hall at Tillietudlem could brook comparison with a modern drawing-room. No tea, no coffee,
no variety of rolls, but solid and substantial viands,--the priestly ham, the knightly sirloin,
the noble baron of beef, the princely venison pasty; while silver flagons, saved with difficulty
from the claws of the Covenanters, now mantled, some with ale, some with mead, and some with
generous wine of various qualities and descriptions. The appetites of the guests were in correspondence
to the magnificence and solidity of the preparation--no piddling--no boy's-play, but that steady
and persevering exercise of the jaws which is best learned by early morning hours, and by occasional
hard commons.

Lady Margaret beheld with delight the cates which she had provided descending with such alacrity
into the persons of her honoured guests, and had little occasion to exercise, with respect
to any of the company saving Claverhouse himself, the compulsory urgency of pressing to eat,
to which, as to the peine forte et dure, the ladies of that period were in the custom of subjecting
their guests.

But the leader himself, more anxious to pay courtesy to Miss Bellenden, next whom he was placed,
than to gratify his appetite, appeared somewhat negligent of the good cheer set before him.
Edith heard, without reply, many courtly speeches addressed to her, in a tone of voice of that
happy modulation which could alike melt in the low tones of interesting conversation, and rise
amid the din of battle, "loud as a trumpet with a silver sound." The sense that she was in
the presence of the dreadful chief upon whose fiat the fate of Henry Morton must depend--the
recollection of the terror and awe which were attached to the very name of the commander, deprived
her for some time, not only of the courage to answer, but even of the power of looking upon
him. But when, emboldened by the soothing tones of his voice, she lifted her eyes to frame
some reply, the person on whom she looked bore, in his appearance at least, none of the terrible
attributes in which her apprehensions had arrayed him.

Grahame of Claverhouse was in the prime of life, rather low of stature, and slightly, though
elegantly, formed; his gesture, language, and manners, were those of one whose life had been
spent among the noble and the gay. His features exhibited even feminine regularity. An oval
face, a straight and well-formed nose, dark hazel eyes, a complexion just sufficiently tinged
with brown to save it from the charge of effeminacy, a short upper lip, curved upward like
that of a Grecian statue, and slightly shaded by small mustachios of light brown, joined to
a profusion of long curled locks of the same colour, which fell down on each side of his face,
contributed to form such a countenance as limners love to paint and ladies to look upon.

The severity of his character, as well as the higher attributes of undaunted and enterprising
valour which even his enemies were compelled to admit, lay concealed under an exterior which
seemed adapted to the court or the saloon rather than to the field. The same gentleness and
gaiety of expression which reigned in his features seemed to inspire his actions and gestures;
and, on the whole, he was generally esteemed, at first sight, rather qualified to be the votary
of pleasure than of ambition. But under this soft exterior was hidden a spirit unbounded in
daring and in aspiring, yet cautious and prudent as that of Machiavel himself. Profound in
politics, and embued, of course, with that disregard for individual rights which its intrigues
usually generate, this leader was cool and collected in danger, fierce and ardent in pursuing
success, careless of facing death himself, and ruthless in inflicting it upon others. Such
are the characters formed in times of civil discord, when the highest qualities, perverted
by party spirit, and inflamed by habitual opposition, are too often combined with vices and
excesses which deprive them at once of their merit and of their lustre.

In endeavouring to reply to the polite trifles with which Claverhouse accosted her, Edith showed
so much confusion, that her grandmother thought it necessary to come to her relief.

"Edith Bellenden," said the old lady, "has, from my retired mode of living, seen so little
of those of her own sphere, that truly she can hardly frame her speech to suitable answers.
A soldier is so rare a sight with us, Colonel Grahame, that unless it be my young Lord Evandale,
we have hardly had an opportunity of receiving a gentleman in uniform. And, now I talk of that
excellent young nobleman, may I enquire if I was not to have had the honour of seeing him this
morning with the regiment?"

"Lord Evandale, madam, was on his march with us," answered the leader, "but I was obliged to
detach him with a small party to disperse a conventicle of those troublesome scoundrels, who
have had the impudence to assemble within five miles of my head-quarters."

"Indeed!" said the old lady; "that is a height of presumption to which I would have thought
no rebellious fanatics would have ventured to aspire. But these are strange times! There is
an evil spirit in the land, Colonel Grahame, that excites the vassals of persons of rank to
rebel against the very house that holds and feeds them. There was one of my able-bodied men
the other day who plainly refused to attend the wappen-schaw at my bidding. Is there no law
for such recusancy, Colonel Grahame?"

"I think I could find one," said Claverhouse, with great composure, "if your ladyship will
inform me of the name and residence of the culprit."

"His name," said Lady Margaret, "is Cuthbert Headrigg; I can say nothing of his domicile, for
ye may weel believe, Colonel Grahame, he did not dwell long in Tillietudlem, but was speedily
expelled for his contumacy. I wish the lad no severe bodily injury; but incarceration, or even
a few stripes, would be a good example in this neighbourhood. His mother, under whose influence
I doubt he acted, is an ancient domestic of this family, which makes me incline to mercy; although,"
continued the old lady, looking towards the pictures of her husband and her sons, with which
the wall was hung, and heaving, at the same time, a deep sigh, "I, Colonel Grahame, have in
my ain person but little right to compassionate that stubborn and rebellious generation. They
have made me a childless widow, and, but for the protection of our sacred sovereign and his
gallant soldiers, they would soon deprive me of lands and goods, of hearth and altar. Seven
of my tenants, whose joint rent-mail may mount to wellnigh a hundred merks, have already refused
to pay either cess or rent, and had the assurance to tell my steward that they would acknowledge
neither king nor landlord but who should have taken the Covenant."

"I will take a course with them--that is, with your ladyship's permission," answered Claverhouse;
"it would ill become me to neglect the support of lawful authority when it is lodged in such
worthy hands as those of Lady Margaret Bellenden. But I must needs say this country grows worse
and worse daily, and reduces me to the necessity of taking measures with the recusants that
are much more consonant with my duty than with my inclinations. And, speaking of this, I must
not forget that I have to thank your ladyship for the hospitality you have been pleased to
extend to a party of mine who have brought in a prisoner, charged with having resetted [Note:
Resetted, i.e. received or harboured.] the murdering villain, Balfour of Burley."

"The house of Tillietudlem," answered the lady, "hath ever been open to the servants of his
majesty, and I hope that the stones of it will no longer rest on each other when it surceases
to be as much at their command as at ours. And this reminds me, Colonel Grahame, that the gentleman
who commands the party can hardly be said to be in his proper place in the army, considering
whose blood flows in his veins; and if I might flatter myself that any thing would be granted
to my request, I would presume to entreat that he might be promoted on some favourable opportunity."

"Your ladyship means Sergeant Francis Stewart, whom we call Bothwell?" said Claverhouse, smiling.
"The truth is, he is a little too rough in the country, and has not been uniformly so amenable
to discipline as the rules of the service require. But to instruct me how to oblige Lady Margaret
Bellenden, is to lay down the law to me.--Bothwell," he continued, addressing the sergeant,
who just then appeared at the door, "go kiss Lady Margaret Bellenden's hand, who interests
herself in your promotion, and you shall have a commission the first vacancy."

Bothwell went through the salutation in the manner prescribed, but not without evident marks
of haughty reluctance, and, when he had done so, said aloud, "To kiss a lady's hand can never
disgrace a gentleman; but I would not kiss a man's, save the king's, to be made a general."

"You hear him," said Claverhouse, smiling, "there's the rock he splits upon; he cannot forget
his pedigree."

"I know, my noble colonel," said Bothwell, in the same tone, "that you will not forget your
promise; and then, perhaps, you may permit Cornet Stewart to have some recollection of his
grandfather, though the Sergeant must forget him."

"Enough of this, sir," said Claverhouse, in the tone of command which was familiar to him;
"and let me know what you came to report to me just now."

"My Lord Evandale and his party have halted on the high-road with some prisoners," said Bothwell.

"My Lord Evandale?" said Lady Margaret. "Surely, Colonel Grahame, you will permit him to honour
me with his society, and to take his poor disjune here, especially considering, that even his
most sacred Majesty did not pass the Tower of Tillietudlem without halting to partake of some
refreshment."

As this was the third time in the course of the conversation that Lady Margaret had adverted
to this distinguished event, Colonel Grahame, as speedily as politeness would permit, took
advantage of the first pause to interrupt the farther progress of the narrative, by saying,
"We are already too numerous a party of guests; but as I know what Lord Evandale will suffer
(looking towards Edith) if deprived of the pleasure which we enjoy, I will run the risk of
overburdening your ladyship's hospitality.--Bothwell, let Lord Evandale know that Lady Margaret
Bellenden requests the honour of his company."

"And let Harrison take care," added Lady Margaret, "that the people and their horses are suitably
seen to."

Edith's heart sprung to her lips during this conversation; for it instantly occurred to her,
that, through her influence over Lord Evandale, she might find some means of releasing Morton
from his present state of danger, in case her uncle's intercession with Claverhouse should
prove ineffectual. At any other time she would have been much averse to exert this influence;
for, however inexperienced in the world, her native delicacy taught her the advantage which
a beautiful young woman gives to a young man when she permits him to lay her under an obligation.
And she would have been the farther disinclined to request any favour of Lord Evandale, because
the voice of the gossips in Clydesdale had, for reasons hereafter to be made known, assigned
him to her as a suitor, and because she could not disguise from herself that very little encouragement
was necessary to realize conjectures which had hitherto no foundation. This was the more to
be dreaded, that, in the case of Lord Evandale's making a formal declaration, he had every
chance of being supported by the influence of Lady Margaret and her other friends, and that
she would have nothing to oppose to their solicitations and authority, except a predilection,
to avow which she knew would be equally dangerous and unavailing. She determined, therefore,
to wait the issue of her uncle's intercession, and, should it fail, which she conjectured she
should soon learn, either from the looks or language of the open-hearted veteran, she would
then, as a last effort, make use in Morton's favour of her interest with Lord Evandale. Her
mind did not long remain in suspense on the subject of her uncle's application.

Major Bellenden, who had done the honours of the table, laughing and chatting with the military
guests who were at that end of the board, was now, by the conclusion of the repast, at liberty
to leave his station, and accordingly took an opportunity to approach Claverhouse, requesting
from his niece, at the same time, the honour of a particular introduction. As his name and
character were well known, the two military men met with expressions of mutual regard; and
Edith, with a beating heart, saw her aged relative withdraw from the company, together with
his new acquaintance, into a recess formed by one of the arched windows of the hall. She watched
their conference with eyes almost dazzled by the eagerness of suspense, and, with observation
rendered more acute by the internal agony of her mind, could guess, from the pantomimic gestures
which accompanied the conversation, the progress and fate of the intercession in behalf of
Henry Morton.

The first expression of the countenance of Claverhouse betokened that open and willing courtesy,
which, ere it requires to know the nature of the favour asked, seems to say, how happy the
party will be to confer an obligation on the suppliant. But as the conversation proceeded,
the brow of that officer became darker and more severe, and his features, though still retaining
the expression of the most perfect politeness, assumed, at least to Edith's terrified imagination,
a harsh and inexorable character. His lip was now compressed as if with impatience; now curled
slightly upward, as if in civil contempt of the arguments urged by Major Bellenden. The language
of her uncle, as far as expressed in his manner, appeared to be that of earnest intercession,
urged with all the affectionate simplicity of his character, as well as with the weight which
his age and reputation entitled him to use. But it seemed to have little impression upon Colonel
Grahame, who soon changed his posture, as if about to cut short the Major's importunity, and
to break up their conference with a courtly expression of regret, calculated to accompany a
positive refusal of the request solicited. This movement brought them so near Edith, that she
could distinctly hear Claverhouse say, "It cannot be, Major Bellenden; lenity, in his case,
is altogether beyond the bounds of my commission, though in any thing else I am heartily desirous
to oblige you.--And here comes Evandale with news, as I think.--What tidings do you bring us,
Evandale?" he continued, addressing the young lord, who now entered in complete uniform, but
with his dress disordered, and his boots spattered, as if by riding hard.

"Unpleasant news, sir," was his reply. "A large body of whigs are in arms among the hills,
and have broken out into actual rebellion. They have publicly burnt the Act of Supremacy, that
which established episcopacy, that for observing the martyrdom of Charles I., and some others,
and have declared their intention to remain together in arms for furthering the covenanted
work of reformation."

This unexpected intelligence struck a sudden and painful surprise into the minds of all who
heard it, excepting Claverhouse.

"Unpleasant news call you them?" replied Colonel Grahame, his dark eyes flashing fire, "they
are the best I have heard these six months. Now that the scoundrels are drawn into a body,
we will make short work with them. When the adder crawls into daylight," he added, striking
the heel of his boot upon the floor, as if in the act of crushing a noxious reptile, "I can
trample him to death; he is only safe when he remains lurking in his den or morass.--Where
are these knaves?" he continued, addressing Lord Evandale.

"About ten miles off among the mountains, at a place called Loudon-hill," was the young nobleman's
reply. "I dispersed the conventicle against which you sent me, and made prisoner an old trumpeter
of rebellion,--an intercommuned minister, that is to say,--who was in the act of exhorting
his hearers to rise and be doing in the good cause, as well as one or two of his hearers who
seemed to be particularly insolent; and from some country people and scouts I learned what
I now tell you."

"What may be their strength?" asked his commander.

"Probably a thousand men, but accounts differ widely."

"Then," said Claverhouse, "it is time for us to be up and be doing also--Bothwell, bid them
sound to horse."

Bothwell, who, like the war-horse of scripture, snuffed the battle afar off, hastened to give
orders to six negroes, in white dresses richly laced, and having massive silver collars and
armlets. These sable functionaries acted as trumpeters, and speedily made the castle and the
woods around it ring with their summons.

"Must you then leave us?" said Lady Margaret, her heart sinking under recollection of former
unhappy times; "had ye not better send to learn the force of the rebels?--O, how many a fair
face hae I heard these fearfu' sounds call away frae the Tower of Tillietudlem, that my auld
een were ne'er to see return to it!"

"It is impossible for me to stop," said Claverhouse; "there are rogues enough in this country
to make the rebels five times their strength, if they are not checked at once."

"Many," said Evandale, "are flocking to them already, and they give out that they expect a
strong body of the indulged presbyterians, headed by young Milnwood, as they call him, the
son of the famous old roundhead, Colonel Silas Morton."

This speech produced a very different effect upon the hearers. Edith almost sunk from her seat
with terror, while Claverhouse darted a glance of sarcastic triumph at Major Bellenden, which
seemed to imply--"You see what are the principles of the young man you are pleading for."

"It's a lie--it's a d--d lie of these rascally fanatics," said the Major hastily. "I will answer
for Henry Morton as I would for my own son. He is a lad of as good church-principles as any
gentleman in the Life-Guards. I mean no offence to any one. He has gone to church service with
me fifty times, and I never heard him miss one of the responses in my life. Edith Bellenden
can bear witness to it as well as I. He always read on the same Prayer-book with her, and could
look out the lessons as well as the curate himself. Call him up; let him be heard for himself."

"There can be no harm in that," said Claverhouse, "whether he be innocent or guilty.--Major
Allan," he said, turning to the officer next in command, "take a guide, and lead the regiment
forward to Loudon-hill by the best and shortest road. Move steadily, and do not let the men
blow the horses; Lord Evandale and I will overtake you in a quarter of an hour. Leave Bothwell
with a party to bring up the prisoners."

Allan bowed, and left the apartment, with all the officers, excepting Claverhouse and the young
nobleman. In a few minutes the sound of the military music and the clashing of hoofs announced
that the horsemen were leaving the castle. The sounds were presently heard only at intervals,
and soon died away entirely.

While Claverhouse endeavoured to soothe the terrors of Lady Margaret, and to reconcile the
veteran Major to his opinion of Morton, Evandale, getting the better of that conscious shyness
which renders an ingenuous youth diffident in approaching the object of his affections, drew
near to Miss Bellenden, and accosted her in a tone of mingled respect and interest.

"We are to leave you," he said, taking her hand, which he pressed with much emotion--"to leave
you for a scene which is not without its dangers. Farewell, dear Miss Bellenden;--let me say
for the first, and perhaps the last time, dear Edith! We part in circumstances so singular
as may excuse some solemnity in bidding farewell to one, whom I have known so long, and whom
I--respect so highly."

The manner differing from the words, seemed to express a feeling much deeper and more agitating
than was conveyed in the phrase he made use of. It was not in woman to be utterly insensible
to his modest and deep-felt expression of tenderness. Although borne down by the misfortunes
and imminent danger of the man she loved, Edith was touched by the hopeless and reverential
passion of the gallant youth, who now took leave of her to rush into dangers of no ordinary
description.

"I hope--I sincerely trust," she said, "there is no danger. I hope there is no occasion for
this solemn ceremonial--that these hasty insurgents will be dispersed rather by fear than force,
and that Lord Evandale will speedily return to be what he must always be, the dear and valued
friend of all in this castle."

"Of all," he repeated, with a melancholy emphasis upon the word. "But be it so--whatever is
near you is dear and valued to me, and I value their approbation accordingly. Of our success
I am not sanguine. Our numbers are so few, that I dare not hope for so speedy, so bloodless,
or so safe an end of this unhappy disturbance. These men are enthusiastic, resolute, and desperate,
and have leaders not altogether unskilled in military matters. I cannot help thinking that
the impetuosity of our Colonel is hurrying us against them rather prematurely. But there are
few that have less reason to shun danger than I have."

Edith had now the opportunity she wished to bespeak the young nobleman's intercession and protection
for Henry Morton, and it seemed the only remaining channel of interest by which he could be
rescued from impending destruction. Yet she felt at that moment as if, in doing so, she was
abusing the partiality and confidence of the lover, whose heart was as open before her, as
if his tongue had made an express declaration. Could she with honour engage Lord Evandale in
the service of a rival? or could she with prudence make him any request, or lay herself under
any obligation to him, without affording ground for hopes which she could never realize? But
the moment was too urgent for hesitation, or even for those explanations with which her request
might otherwise have been qualified.

"I will but dispose of this young fellow," said Claverhouse, from the other side of the hall,
"and then, Lord Evandale--I am sorry to interrupt again your conversation--but then we must
mount.--Bothwell, why do not you bring up the prisoner? and, hark ye, let two files load their
carabines."

In these words, Edith conceived she heard the death-warrant of her lover. She instantly broke
through the restraint which had hitherto kept her silent.

"My Lord Evandale," she said, "this young gentleman is a particular friend of my uncle's--your
interest must be great with your colonel--let me request your intercession in his favour--it
will confer on my uncle a lasting obligation."

"You overrate my interest, Miss Bellenden," said Lord Evandale; "I have been often unsuccessful
in such applications, when I have made them on the mere score of humanity."

"Yet try once again for my uncle's sake."

"And why not for your own?" said Lord Evandale. "Will you not allow me to think I am obliging
you personally in this matter?--Are you so diffident of an old friend that you will not allow
him even the satisfaction of thinking that he is gratifying your wishes?"

"Surely--surely," replied Edith; "you will oblige me infinitely--I am interested in the young
gentleman on my uncle's account--Lose no time, for God's sake!"

She became bolder and more urgent in her entreaties, for she heard the steps of the soldiers
who were entering with their prisoner.

"By heaven! then," said Evandale, "he shall not die, if I should die in his place!--But will
not you," he said, resuming the hand, which in the hurry of her spirits she had not courage
to withdraw, "will not you grant me one suit, in return for my zeal in your service?"

"Any thing you can ask, my Lord Evandale, that sisterly affection can give."

"And is this all," he continued, "all you can grant to my affection living, or my memory when
dead?"

"Do not speak thus, my lord," said Edith, "you distress me, and do injustice to yourself. There
is no friend I esteem more highly, or to whom I would more readily grant every mark of regard--providing--But"--A
deep sigh made her turn her head suddenly, ere she had well uttered the last word; and, as
she hesitated how to frame the exception with which she meant to close the sentence, she became
instantly aware she had been overheard by Morton, who, heavily ironed and guarded by soldiers,
was now passing behind her in order to be presented to Claverhouse. As their eyes met each
other, the sad and reproachful expression of Morton's glance seemed to imply that he had partially
heard, and altogether misinterpreted, the conversation which had just passed. There wanted
but this to complete Edith's distress and confusion. Her blood, which rushed to her brow, made
a sudden revulsion to her heart, and left her as pale as death. This change did not escape
the attention of Evandale, whose quick glance easily discovered that there was between the
prisoner and the object of his own attachment, some singular and uncommon connexion. He resigned
the hand of Miss Bellenden, again surveyed the prisoner with more attention, again looked at
Edith, and plainly observed the confusion which she could no longer conceal.

"This," he said, after a moment's gloomy silence, "is, I believe, the young gentleman who gained
the prize at the shooting match."

"I am not sure," hesitated Edith--"yet--I rather think not," scarce knowing what she replied.

"It is he," said Evandale, decidedly; "I know him well. A victor," he continued, somewhat haughtily,
"ought to have interested a fair spectator more deeply."

He then turned from Edith, and advancing towards the table at which Claverhouse now placed
himself, stood at a little distance, resting on his sheathed broadsword, a silent, but not
an unconcerned, spectator of that which passed.

CHAPTER XIII.

                    O, my Lord, beware of jealousy!
                                        Othello.

To explain the deep effect which the few broken passages of the conversation we have detailed
made upon the unfortunate prisoner by whom they were overheard, it is necessary to say something
of his previous state of mind, and of the origin of his acquaintance with Edith.

Henry Morton was one of those gifted characters, which possess a force of talent unsuspected
by the owner himself. He had inherited from his father an undaunted courage, and a firm and
uncompromising detestation of oppression, whether in politics or religion. But his enthusiasm
was unsullied by fanatic zeal, and unleavened by the sourness of the puritanical spirit. From
these his mind had been freed, partly by the active exertions of his own excellent understanding,
partly by frequent and long visits at Major Bellenden's, where he had an opportunity of meeting
with many guests whose conversation taught him, that goodness and worth were not limited to
those of any single form of religious observance.

The base parsimony of his uncle had thrown many obstacles in the way of his education; but
he had so far improved the opportunities which offered themselves, that his instructors as
well as his friends were surprised at his progress under such disadvantages. Still, however,
the current of his soul was frozen by a sense of dependence, of poverty, above all, of an imperfect
and limited education. These feelings impressed him with a diffidence and reserve which effectually
concealed from all but very intimate friends, the extent of talent and the firmness of character,
which we have stated him to be possessed of. The circumstances of the times had added to this
reserve an air of indecision and of indifference; for, being attached to neither of the factions
which divided the kingdom, he passed for dull, insensible, and uninfluenced by the feeling
of religion or of patriotism. No conclusion, however, could be more unjust; and the reasons
of the neutrality which he had hitherto professed had root in very different and most praiseworthy
motives. He had formed few congenial ties with those who were the objects of persecution, and
was disgusted alike by their narrow-minded and selfish party-spirit, their gloomy fanaticism,
their abhorrent condemnation of all elegant studies or innocent exercises, and the envenomed
rancour of their political hatred. But his mind was still more revolted by the tyrannical and
oppressive conduct of the government, the misrule, license, and brutality of the soldiery,
the executions on the scaffold, the slaughters in the open field, the free quarters and exactions
imposed by military law, which placed the lives and fortunes of a free people on a level with
Asiatic slaves. Condemning, therefore, each party as its excesses fell under his eyes, disgusted
with the sight of evils which he had no means of alleviating, and hearing alternate complaints
and exultations with which he could not sympathize, he would long ere this have left Scotland,
had it not been for his attachment to Edith Bellenden.

The earlier meetings of these young people had been at Charnwood, when Major Bellenden, who
was as free from suspicion on such occasions as Uncle Toby himself, had encouraged their keeping
each other constant company, without entertaining any apprehension of the natural consequences.
Love, as usual in such cases, borrowed the name of friendship, used her language, and claimed
her privileges. When Edith Bellenden was recalled to her mother's castle, it was astonishing
by what singular and recurring accidents she often met young Morton in her sequestered walks,
especially considering the distance of their places of abode. Yet it somehow happened that
she never expressed the surprise which the frequency of these rencontres ought naturally to
have excited, and that their intercourse assumed gradually a more delicate character, and their
meetings began to wear the air of appointments. Books, drawings, letters, were exchanged between
them, and every trifling commission, given or executed, gave rise to a new correspondence.
Love indeed was not yet mentioned between them by name, but each knew the situation of their
own bosom, and could not but guess at that of the other. Unable to desist from an intercourse
which possessed such charms for both, yet trembling for its too probable consequences, it had
been continued without specific explanation until now, when fate appeared to have taken the
conclusion into its own hands.

It followed, as a consequence of this state of things, as well as of the diffidence of Morton's
disposition at this period, that his confidence in Edith's return of his affection had its
occasional cold fits. Her situations was in every respect so superior to his own, her worth
so eminent, her accomplishments so many, her face so beautiful, and her manners so bewitching,
that he could not but entertain fears that some suitor more favoured than himself by fortune,
and more acceptable to Edith's family than he durst hope to be, might step in between him and
the object of his affections. Common rumour had raised up such a rival in Lord Evandale, whom
birth, fortune, connexions, and political principles, as well as his frequent visits at Tillietudlem,
and his attendance upon Lady Bellenden and her niece at all public places, naturally pointed
out as a candidate for her favour. It frequently and inevitably happened, that engagements
to which Lord Evandale was a party, interfered with the meeting of the lovers, and Henry could
not but mark that Edith either studiously avoided speaking of the young nobleman, or did so
with obvious reserve and hesitation.

These symptoms, which, in fact, arose from the delicacy of her own feelings towards Morton
himself, were misconstrued by his diffident temper, and the jealousy which they excited was
fermented by the occasional observations of Jenny Dennison. This true-bred serving-damsel was,
in her own person, a complete country coquette, and when she had no opportunity of teasing
her own lovers, used to take some occasional opportunity to torment her young lady's. This
arose from no ill-will to Henry Morton, who, both on her mistress's account and his own handsome
form and countenance, stood high in her esteem. But then Lord Evandale was also handsome; he
was liberal far beyond what Morton's means could afford, and he was a lord, moreover, and,
if Miss Edith Bellenden should accept his hand, she would become a baron's lady, and, what
was more, little Jenny Dennison, whom the awful housekeeper at Tillietudlem huffed about at
her pleasure, would be then Mrs Dennison, Lady Evandale's own woman, or perhaps her ladyship's
lady-in-waiting. The impartiality of Jenny Dennison, therefore, did not, like that of Mrs Quickly,
extend to a wish that both the handsome suitors could wed her young lady; for it must be owned
that the scale of her regard was depressed in favour of Lord Evandale, and her wishes in his
favour took many shapes extremely tormenting to Morton; being now expressed as a friendly caution,
now as an article of intelligence, and anon as a merry jest, but always tending to confirm
the idea, that, sooner or later, his romantic intercourse with her young mistress must have
a close, and that Edith Bellenden would, in spite of summer walks beneath the greenwood tree,
exchange of verses, of drawings, and of books, end in becoming Lady Evandale.

These hints coincided so exactly with the very point of his own suspicions and fears, that
Morton was not long of feeling that jealousy which every one has felt who has truly loved,
but to which those are most liable whose love is crossed by the want of friends' consent, or
some other envious impediment of fortune. Edith herself, unwittingly, and in the generosity
of her own frank nature, contributed to the error into which her lover was in danger of falling.
Their conversation once chanced to turn upon some late excesses committed by the soldiery on
an occasion when it was said (inaccurately however) that the party was commanded by Lord Evandale.
Edith, as true in friendship as in love, was somewhat hurt at the severe strictures which escaped
from Morton on this occasion, and which, perhaps, were not the less strongly expressed on account
of their supposed rivalry. She entered into Lord Evandale's defence with such spirit as hurt
Morton to the very soul, and afforded no small delight to Jenny Dennison, the usual companion
of their walks. Edith perceived her error, and endeavoured to remedy it; but the impression
was not so easily erased, and it had no small effect in inducing her lover to form that resolution
of going abroad, which was disappointed in the manner we have already mentioned.

The visit which he received from Edith during his confinement, the deep and devoted interest
which she had expressed in his fate, ought of themselves to have dispelled his suspicions;
yet, ingenious in tormenting himself, even this he thought might be imputed to anxious friendship,
or, at most, to a temporary partiality, which would probably soon give way to circumstances,
the entreaties of her friends, the authority of Lady Margaret, and the assiduities of Lord
Evandale.

"And to what do I owe it," he said, "that I cannot stand up like a man, and plead my interest
in her ere I am thus cheated out of it?--to what, but to the all-pervading and accursed tyranny,
which afflicts at once our bodies, souls, estates, and affections! And is it to one of the
pensioned cut-throats of this oppressive government that I must yield my pretensions to Edith
Bellenden?--I will not, by Heaven!--It is a just punishment on me for being dead to public
wrongs, that they have visited me with their injuries in a point where they can be least brooked
or borne."

As these stormy resolutions boiled in his bosom, and while he ran over the various kinds of
insult and injury which he had sustained in his own cause and in that of his country, Bothwell
entered the tower, followed by two dragoons, one of whom carried handcuffs.

"You must follow me, young man," said he, "but first we must put you in trim."

"In trim!" said Morton. "What do you mean?"

"Why, we must put on these rough bracelets. I durst not--nay, d--n it, I durst do any thing--but
I would not for three hours' plunder of a stormed town bring a whig before my Colonel without
his being ironed. Come, come, young man, don't look sulky about it."

He advanced to put on the irons; but, seizing the oaken-seat upon which he had rested, Morton
threatened to dash out the brains of the first who should approach him.

"I could manage you in a moment, my youngster," said Bothwell, "but I had rather you would
strike sail quietly."

Here indeed he spoke the truth, not from either fear or reluctance to adopt force, but because
he dreaded the consequences of a noisy scuffle, through which it might probably be discovered
that he had, contrary to express orders, suffered his prisoner to pass the night without being
properly secured.

"You had better be prudent," he continued, in a tone which he meant to be conciliatory, "and
don't spoil your own sport. They say here in the castle that Lady Margaret's niece is immediately
to marry our young Captain, Lord Evandale. I saw them close together in the hall yonder, and
I heard her ask him to intercede for your pardon. She looked so devilish handsome and kind
upon him, that on my soul--But what the devil's the matter with you?--You are as pale as a
sheet--Will you have some brandy?"

"Miss Bellenden ask my life of Lord Evandale?" said the prisoner, faintly.

"Ay, ay; there's no friend like the women--their interest carries all in court and camp.--Come,
you are reasonable now--Ay, I thought you would come round."

Here he employed himself in putting on the fetters, against which, Morton, thunderstruck by
this intelligence, no longer offered the least resistance.

"My life begged of him, and by her!--ay--ay--put on the irons--my limbs shall not refuse to
bear what has entered into my very soul--My life begged by Edith, and begged of Evandale!"

"Ay, and he has power to grant it too," said Bothwell--"He can do more with the Colonel than
any man in the regiment."

And as he spoke, he and his party led their prisoner towards the hall. In passing behind the
seat of Edith, the unfortunate prisoner heard enough, as he conceived, of the broken expressions
which passed between Edith and Lord Evandale, to confirm all that the soldier had told him.
That moment made a singular and instantaneous revolution in his character. The depth of despair
to which his love and fortunes were reduced, the peril in which his life appeared to stand,
the transference of Edith's affections, her intercession in his favour, which rendered her
fickleness yet more galling, seemed to destroy every feeling for which he had hitherto lived,
but, at the same time, awakened those which had hitherto been smothered by passions more gentle
though more selfish. Desperate himself, he determined to support the rights of his country,
insulted in his person. His character was for the moment as effectually changed as the appearance
of a villa, which, from being the abode of domestic quiet and happiness, is, by the sudden
intrusion of an armed force, converted into a formidable post of defence.

We have already said that he cast upon Edith one glance in which reproach was mingled with
sorrow, as if to bid her farewell for ever; his next motion was to walk firmly to the table
at which Colonel Grahame was seated.

"By what right is it, sir," said he firmly, and without waiting till he was questioned,--"By
what right is it that these soldiers have dragged me from my family, and put fetters on the
limbs of a free man?"

"By my commands," answered Claverhouse; "and I now lay my commands on you to be silent and
hear my questions."

"I will not," replied Morton, in a determined tone, while his boldness seemed to electrify
all around him. "I will know whether I am in lawful custody, and before a civil magistrate,
ere the charter of my country shall be forfeited in my person."

"A pretty springald this, upon my honour!" said Claverhouse.

"Are you mad?" said Major Bellenden to his young friend. "For God's sake, Henry Morton," he
continued, in a tone between rebuke and entreaty, "remember you are speaking to one of his
majesty's officers high in the service."

"It is for that very reason, sir," returned Henry, firmly, "that I desire to know what right
he has to detain me without a legal warrant. Were he a civil officer of the law I should know
my duty was submission."

"Your friend, here," said Claverhouse to the veteran, coolly, "is one of those scrupulous gentlemen,
who, like the madman in the play, will not tie his cravat without the warrant of Mr Justice
Overdo; but I will let him see, before we part, that my shoulder-knot is as legal a badge of
authority as the mace of the Justiciary. So, waving this discussion, you will be pleased, young
man, to tell me directly when you saw Balfour of Burley."

"As I know no right you have to ask such a question," replied Morton, "I decline replying to it."

"You confessed to my sergeant," said Claverhouse, "that you saw and entertained him, knowing
him to be an intercommuned traitor; why are you not so frank with me?"

"Because," replied the prisoner, "I presume you are, from education, taught to understand the
rights upon which you seem disposed to trample; and I am willing you should be aware there
are yet Scotsmen who can assert the liberties of Scotland."

"And these supposed rights you would vindicate with your sword, I presume?" said Colonel Grahame.

"Were I armed as you are, and we were alone upon a hill-side, you should not ask me the question
twice."

"It is quite enough," answered Claverhouse, calmly; "your language corresponds with all I have
heard of you;--but you are the son of a soldier, though a rebellious one, and you shall not
die the death of a dog; I will save you that indignity."

"Die in what manner I may," replied Morton, "I will die like the son of a brave man; and the
ignominy you mention shall remain with those who shed innocent blood."

"Make your peace, then, with Heaven, in five minutes' space.--Bothwell, lead him down to the
court-yard, and draw up your party."

The appalling nature of this conversation, and of its result, struck the silence of horror
into all but the speakers. But now those who stood round broke forth into clamour and expostulation.
Old Lady Margaret, who, with all the prejudices of rank and party, had not laid aside the feelings
of her sex, was loud in her intercession.

"O, Colonel Grahame," she exclaimed, "spare his young blood! Leave him to the law--do not repay
my hospitality by shedding men's blood on the threshold of my doors!"

"Colonel Grahame," said Major Bellenden, "you must answer this violence. Don't think, though
I am old and feckless, that my friend's son shall be murdered before my eyes with impunity.
I can find friends that shall make you answer it."

"Be satisfied, Major Bellenden, I will answer it," replied Claverhouse, totally unmoved; "and
you, madam, might spare me the pain the resisting this passionate intercession for a traitor,
when you consider the noble blood your own house has lost by such as he is."

"Colonel Grahame," answered the lady, her aged frame trembling with anxiety, "I leave vengeance
to God, who calls it his own. The shedding of this young man's blood will not call back the
lives that were dear to me; and how can it comfort me to think that there has maybe been another
widowed mother made childless, like mysell, by a deed done at my very door-stane!"

"This is stark madness," said Claverhouse; "I must do my duty to church and state. Here are
a thousand villains hard by in open rebellion, and you ask me to pardon a young fanatic who
is enough of himself to set a whole kingdom in a blaze! It cannot be--Remove him, Bothwell."

She who was most interested in this dreadful decision, had twice strove to speak, but her voice
had totally failed her; her mind refused to suggest words, and her tongue to utter them. She
now sprung up and attempted to rush forward, but her strength gave way, and she would have
fallen flat upon the pavement had she not been caught by her attendant.

"Help!" cried Jenny,--"Help, for God's sake! my young lady is dying."

At this exclamation, Evandale, who, during the preceding part of the scene, had stood motionless,
leaning upon his sword, now stepped forward, and said to his commanding-officer, "Colonel Grahame,
before proceeding in this matter, will you speak a word with me in private?"

Claverhouse looked surprised, but instantly rose and withdrew with the young nobleman into
a recess, where the following brief dialogue passed between them:

"I think I need not remind you, Colonel, that when our family interest was of service to you
last year in that affair in the privy-council, you considered yourself as laid under some obligation
to us?"

"Certainly, my dear Evandale," answered Claverhouse, "I am not a man who forgets such debts;
you will delight me by showing how I can evince my gratitude."

"I will hold the debt cancelled," said Lord Evandale, "if you will spare this young man's life."

"Evandale," replied Grahame, in great surprise, "you are mad--absolutely mad--what interest
can you have in this young spawn of an old roundhead?--His father was positively the most dangerous
man in all Scotland, cool, resolute, soliderly, and inflexible in his cursed principles. His
son seems his very model; you cannot conceive the mischief he may do. I know mankind, Evandale--were
he an insignificant, fanatical, country booby, do you think I would have refused such a trifle
as his life to Lady Margaret and this family? But this is a lad of fire, zeal, and education--and
these knaves want but such a leader to direct their blind enthusiastic hardiness. I mention
this, not as refusing your request, but to make you fully aware of the possible consequences--I
will never evade a promise, or refuse to return an obligation--if you ask his life, he shall
have it."

"Keep him close prisoner," answered Evandale, "but do not be surprised if I persist in requesting
you will not put him to death. I have most urgent reasons for what I ask."

"Be it so then," replied Grahame;--"but, young man, should you wish in your future life to
rise to eminence in the service of your king and country, let it be your first task to subject
to the public interest, and to the discharge of your duty, your private passions, affections,
and feelings. These are not times to sacrifice to the dotage of greybeards, or the tears of
silly women, the measures of salutary severity which the dangers around compel us to adopt.
And remember, that if I now yield this point, in compliance with your urgency, my present concession
must exempt me from future solicitations of the same nature."

He then stepped forward to the table, and bent his eyes keenly on Morton, as if to observe
what effect the pause of awful suspense between death and life, which seemed to freeze the
bystanders with horror, would produce upon the prisoner himself. Morton maintained a degree
of firmness, which nothing but a mind that had nothing left upon earth to love or to hope,
could have supported at such a crisis.

"You see him?" said Claverhouse, in a half whisper to Lord Evandale; "he is tottering on the
verge between time and eternity, a situation more appalling than the most hideous certainty;
yet his is the only cheek unblenched, the only eye that is calm, the only heart that keeps
its usual time, the only nerves that are not quivering. Look at him well, Evandale--If that
man shall ever come to head an army of rebels, you will have much to answer for on account
of this morning's work." He then said aloud, "Young man, your life is for the present safe,
through the intercession of your friends--Remove him, Bothwell, and let him be properly guarded,
and brought along with the other prisoners."

"If my life," said Morton, stung with the idea that he owed his respite to the intercession
of a favoured rival, "if my life be granted at Lord Evandale's request"--

"Take the prisoner away, Bothwell," said Colonel Grahame, interrupting him; "I have neither
time to make nor to hear fine speeches."

Bothwell forced off Morton, saying, as he conducted him into the court-yard, "Have you three
lives in your pocket, besides the one in your body, my lad, that you can afford to let your
tongue run away with them at this rate? Come, come, I'll take care to keep you out of the Colonel's
way; for, egad, you will not be five minutes with him before the next tree or the next ditch
will be the word. So, come along to your companions in bondage."

Thus speaking, the sergeant, who, in his rude manner, did not altogether want sympathy for
a gallant young man, hurried Morton down to the courtyard, where three other prisoners, (two
men and a woman,) who had been taken by Lord Evandale, remained under an escort of dragoons.

Meantime, Claverhouse took his leave of Lady Margaret. But it was difficult for the good lady
to forgive his neglect of her intercession.

"I have thought till now," she said, "that the Tower of Tillietudlem might have been a place
of succour to those that are ready to perish, even if they werena sae deserving as they should
have been--but I see auld fruit has little savour--our suffering and our services have been
of an ancient date."

"They are never to be forgotten by me, let me assure your ladyship," said Claverhouse. "Nothing
but what seemed my sacred duty could make me hesitate to grant a favour requested by you and
the Major. Come, my good lady, let me hear you say you have forgiven me, and, as I return to-night,
I will bring a drove of two hundred whigs with me, and pardon fifty head of them for your sake."

"I shall be happy to hear of your success, Colonel," said Major Bellenden; "but take an old
soldier's advice, and spare blood when battle's over,--and once more let me request to enter
bail for young Morton."

"We will settle that when I return," said Claverhouse. "Meanwhile, be assured his life shall
be safe."

During this conversation, Evandale looked anxiously around for Edith; but the precaution of
Jenny Dennison had occasioned her mistress being transported to her own apartment.

Slowly and heavily he obeyed the impatient summons of Claverhouse, who, after taking a courteous
leave of Lady Margaret and the Major, had hastened to the court-yard. The prisoners with their
guard were already on their march, and the officers with their escort mounted and followed.
All pressed forward to overtake the main body, as it was supposed they would come in sight
of the enemy in little more than two hours.

CHAPTER XIV.
                    Old Ballad.

We left Morton, along with three companions in captivity, travelling in the custody of a small
body of soldiers, who formed the rear-guard of the column under the command of Claverhouse,
and were immediately under the charge of Sergeant Bothwell. Their route lay towards the hills
in which the insurgent presbyterians were reported to be in arms. They had not prosecuted their
march a quarter of a mile ere Claverhouse and Evandale galloped past them, followed by their
orderly-men, in order to take their proper places in the column which preceded them. No sooner
were they past than Bothwell halted the body which he commanded, and disencumbered Morton of
his irons.

"King's blood must keep word," said the dragoon. "I promised you should be civilly treated
as far as rested with me.--Here, Corporal Inglis, let this gentleman ride alongside of the
other young fellow who is prisoner; and you may permit them to converse together at their pleasure,
under their breath, but take care they are guarded by two files with loaded carabines. If they
attempt an escape, blow their brains out.--You cannot call that using you uncivilly," he continued,
addressing himself to Morton, "it's the rules of war, you know.--And, Inglis, couple up the
parson and the old woman, they are fittest company for each other, d--n me; a single file may
guard them well enough. If they speak a word of cant or fanatical nonsense, let them have a
strapping with a shoulder-belt. There's some hope of choking a silenced parson; if he is not
allowed to hold forth, his own treason will burst him."

Having made this arrangement, Bothwell placed himself at the head of the party, and Inglis,
with six dragoons, brought up the rear. The whole then set forward at a trot, with the purpose
of overtaking the main body of the regiment.

Morton, overwhelmed with a complication of feelings, was totally indifferent to the various
arrangements made for his secure custody, and even to the relief afforded him by his release
from the fetters. He experienced that blank and waste of the heart which follows the hurricane
of passion, and, no longer supported by the pride and conscious rectitude which dictated his
answers to Claverhouse, he surveyed with deep dejection the glades through which he travelled,
each turning of which had something to remind him of past happiness and disappointed love.
The eminence which they now ascended was that from which he used first and last to behold the
ancient tower when approaching or retiring from it; and, it is needless to add, that there
he was wont to pause, and gaze with a lover's delight on the battlements, which, rising at
a distance out of the lofty wood, indicated the dwelling of her, whom he either hoped soon
to meet or had recently parted from. Instinctively he turned his head back to take a last look
of a scene formerly so dear to him, and no less instinctively he heaved a deep sigh. It was
echoed by a loud groan from his companion in misfortune, whose eyes, moved, perchance, by similar
reflections, had taken the same direction. This indication of sympathy, on the part of the
captive, was uttered in a tone more coarse than sentimental; it was, however, the expression
of a grieved spirit, and so far corresponded with the sigh of Morton. In turning their heads
their eyes met, and Morton recognised the stolid countenance of Cuddie Headrigg, bearing a
rueful expression, in which sorrow for his own lot was mixed with sympathy for the situation
of his companion.

"Hegh, sirs!" was the expression of the ci-devant ploughman of the mains of Tillietudlem; "it's
an unco thing that decent folk should be harled through the country this gate, as if they were
a warld's wonder."

"I am sorry to see you here, Cuddie," said Morton, who, even in his own distress, did not lose
feeling for that of others.

"And sae am I, Mr Henry," answered Cuddie, "baith for mysell and you; but neither of our sorrows
will do muckle gude that I can see. To be sure, for me," continued the captive agriculturist,
relieving his heart by talking, though he well knew it was to little purpose,--"to be sure,
for my part, I hae nae right to be here ava', for I never did nor said a word against either
king or curate; but my mither, puir body, couldna haud the auld tongue o' her, and we maun
baith pay for't, it's like."

"Your mother is their prisoner likewise?" said Morton, hardly knowing what he said.

"In troth is she, riding ahint ye there like a bride, wi' that auld carle o' a minister that
they ca' Gabriel Kettledrummle--Deil that he had been in the inside of a drum or a kettle either,
for my share o' him! Ye see, we were nae sooner chased out o' the doors o' Milnwood, and your
uncle and the housekeeper banging them to and barring them ahint us, as if we had had the plague
on our bodies, that I says to my mother, What are we to do neist? for every hole and bore in
the country will be steekit against us, now that ye hae affronted my auld leddy, and gar't
the troopers tak up young Milnwood. Sae she says to me, Binna cast doun, but gird yoursell
up to the great task o' the day, and gie your testimony like a man upon the mount o' the Covenant."

"And so I suppose you went to a conventicle?" said Morton.

"Ye sall hear," continued Cuddie.--"Aweel, I kendna muckle better what to do, sae I e'en gaed
wi' her to an auld daft carline like hersell, and we got some water-broo and bannocks; and
mony a weary grace they said, and mony a psalm they sang, or they wad let me win to, for I
was amaist famished wi' vexation. Aweel, they had me up in the grey o' the morning, and I behoved
to whig awa wi' them, reason or nane, to a great gathering o' their folk at the Miry-sikes;
and there this chield, Gabriel Kettledrummle, was blasting awa to them on the hill-side, about
lifting up their testimony, nae doubt, and ganging down to the battle of Roman Gilead, or some
sic place. Eh, Mr Henry! but the carle gae them a screed o' doctrine! Ye might hae heard him
a mile down the wind--He routed like a cow in a fremd loaning.--Weel, thinks I, there's nae
place in this country they ca' Roman Gilead--it will be some gate in the west muirlands; and
or we win there I'll see to slip awa wi' this mither o' mine, for I winna rin my neck into
a tether for ony Kettledrummle in the country side--Aweel," continued Cuddie, relieving himself
by detailing his misfortunes, without being scrupulous concerning the degree of attention which
his companion bestowed on his narrative, "just as I was wearying for the tail of the preaching,
cam word that the dragoons were upon us.--Some ran, and some cried, Stand! and some cried,
Down wi' the Philistines!--I was at my mither to get her awa sting and ling or the red-coats
cam up, but I might as weel hae tried to drive our auld fore-a-hand ox without the goad--deil
a step wad she budge.--Weel, after a', the cleugh we were in was strait, and the mist cam thick,
and there was good hope the dragoons wad hae missed us if we could hae held our tongues; but,
as if auld Kettledrummle himsell hadna made din eneugh to waken the very dead, they behoved
a' to skirl up a psalm that ye wad hae heard as far as Lanrick!--Aweel, to mak a lang tale
short, up cam my young Lord Evandale, skelping as fast as his horse could trot, and twenty
red-coats at his back. Twa or three chields wad needs fight, wi' the pistol and the whinger
in the tae hand, and the Bible in the tother, and they got their crouns weel cloured; but there
wasna muckle skaith dune, for Evandale aye cried to scatter us, but to spare life."

"And did you not resist?" said Morton, who probably felt, that, at that moment, he himself
would have encountered Lord Evandale on much slighter grounds.

"Na, truly," answered Cuddie, "I keepit aye before the auld woman, and cried for mercy to life
and limb; but twa o' the red-coats cam up, and ane o' them was gaun to strike my mither wi'
the side o' his broadsword--So I got up my kebbie at them, and said I wad gie them as gude.
Weel, they turned on me, and clinked at me wi' their swords, and I garr'd my hand keep my head
as weel as I could till Lord Evandale came up, and then I cried out I was a servant at Tillietudlem--ye
ken yoursell he was aye judged to hae a look after the young leddy--and he bade me fling down
my kent, and sae me and my mither yielded oursells prisoners. I'm thinking we wad hae been
letten slip awa, but Kettledrummle was taen near us--for Andrew Wilson's naig that he was riding
on had been a dragooner lang syne, and the sairer Kettledrummle spurred to win awa, the readier
the dour beast ran to the dragoons when he saw them draw up.--Aweel, when my mother and him
forgathered, they set till the sodgers, and I think they gae them their kale through the reek!
Bastards o' the hure o' Babylon was the best words in their wame. Sae then the kiln was in
a bleeze again, and they brought us a' three on wi' them to mak us an example, as they ca't."

"It is most infamous and intolerable oppression!" said Morton, half speaking to himself; "here
is a poor peaceable fellow, whose only motive for joining the conventicle was a sense of filial
piety, and he is chained up like a thief or murderer, and likely to die the death of one, but
without the privilege of a formal trial, which our laws indulge to the worst malefactor! Even
to witness such tyranny, and still more to suffer under it, is enough to make the blood of
the tamest slave boil within him."

"To be sure," said Cuddie, hearing, and partly understanding, what had broken from Morton in
resentment of his injuries, "it is no right to speak evil o' dignities--my auld leddy aye said
that, as nae doubt she had a gude right to do, being in a place o' dignity hersell; and troth
I listened to her very patiently, for she aye ordered a dram, or a sowp kale, or something
to us, after she had gien us a hearing on our duties. But deil a dram, or kale, or ony thing
else--no sae muckle as a cup o' cauld water--do thae lords at Edinburgh gie us; and yet they
are heading and hanging amang us, and trailing us after thae blackguard troopers, and taking
our goods and gear as if we were outlaws. I canna say I tak it kind at their hands."

"It would be very strange if you did," answered Morton, with suppressed emotion.

"And what I like warst o' a'," continued poor Cuddie, "is thae ranting red-coats coming amang
the lasses, and taking awa our joes. I had a sair heart o' my ain when I passed the Mains down
at Tillietudlem this morning about parritch-time, and saw the reek comin' out at my ain lum-head,
and kend there was some ither body than my auld mither sitting by the ingle-side. But I think
my heart was e'en sairer, when I saw that hellicat trooper, Tam Halliday, kissing Jenny Dennison
afore my face. I wonder women can hae the impudence to do sic things; but they are a' for the
red-coats. Whiles I hae thought o' being a trooper mysell, when I thought naething else wad
gae down wi' Jenny--and yet I'll no blame her ower muckle neither, for maybe it was a' for
my sake that she loot Tam touzle her tap-knots that gate."

"For your sake?" said Morton, unable to refrain from taking some interest in a story which
seemed to bear a singular coincidence with his own.

"E'en sae, Milnwood," replied Cuddie; "for the puir quean gat leave to come near me wi' speaking
the loun fair, (d--n him, that I suld say sae!) and sae she bade me God speed, and she wanted
to stap siller into my hand;--I'se warrant it was the tae half o' her fee and bountith, for
she wared the ither half on pinners and pearlings to gang to see us shoot yon day at the popinjay."

"And did you take it, Cuddie?" said Morton.

"Troth did I no, Milnwood; I was sic a fule as to fling it back to her--my heart was ower grit
to be behadden to her, when I had seen that loon slavering and kissing at her. But I was a
great fule for my pains; it wad hae dune my mither and me some gude, and she'll ware't a' on
duds and nonsense."

There was here a deep and long pause. Cuddie was probably engaged in regretting the rejection
of his mistress's bounty, and Henry Morton in considering from what motives, or upon what conditions,
Miss Bellenden had succeeded in procuring the interference of Lord Evandale in his favour.

Was it not possible, suggested his awakening hopes, that he had construed her influence over
Lord Evandale hastily and unjustly? Ought he to censure her severely, if, submitting to dissimulation
for his sake, she had permitted the young nobleman to entertain hopes which she had no intention
to realize? Or what if she had appealed to the generosity which Lord Evandale was supposed
to possess, and had engaged his honour to protect the person of a favoured rival?

Still, however, the words which he had overheard recurred ever and anon to his remembrance,
with a pang which resembled the sting of an adder.

"Nothing that she could refuse him!--was it possible to make a more unlimited declaration of
predilection? The language of affection has not, within the limits of maidenly delicacy, a
stronger expression. She is lost to me wholly, and for ever; and nothing remains for me now,
but vengeance for my own wrongs, and for those which are hourly inflicted on my country."

Apparently, Cuddie, though with less refinement, was following out a similar train of ideas;
for he suddenly asked Morton in a low whisper--"Wad there be ony ill in getting out o' thae
chields' hands an ane could compass it?"

"None in the world," said Morton; "and if an opportunity occurs of doing so, depend on it I
for one will not let it slip."

"I'm blythe to hear ye say sae," answered Cuddie. "I'm but a puir silly fallow, but I canna
think there wad be muckle ill in breaking out by strength o' hand, if ye could mak it ony thing
feasible. I am the lad that will ne'er fear to lay on, if it were come to that; but our auld
leddy wad hae ca'd that a resisting o' the king's authority."

"I will resist any authority on earth," said Morton, "that invades tyrannically my chartered
rights as a freeman; and I am determined I will not be unjustly dragged to a jail, or perhaps
a gibbet, if I can possibly make my escape from these men either by address or force."

"Weel, that's just my mind too, aye supposing we hae a feasible opportunity o' breaking loose.
But then ye speak o' a charter; now these are things that only belang to the like o' you that
are a gentleman, and it mightna bear me through that am but a husbandman."

"The charter that I speak of," said Morton, "is common to the meanest Scotchman.

"Hegh, sirs!" replied Cuddie, "it wad hae been lang or my Leddy Margaret, or my mither either,
wad hae fund out sic a wiselike doctrine in the Bible! The tane was aye graning about giving
tribute to Caesar, and the tither is as daft wi' her whiggery. I hae been clean spoilt, just
wi' listening to twa blethering auld wives; but if I could get a gentleman that wad let me
tak on to be his servant, I am confident I wad be a clean contrary creature; and I hope your
honour will think on what I am saying, if ye were ance fairly delivered out o' this house of
bondage, and just take me to be your ain wally-de-shamble."

"My valet, Cuddie?" answered Morton; "alas! that would be sorry preferment, even if we were
at liberty."

"I ken what ye're thinking--that because I am landward-bred, I wad be bringing ye to disgrace
afore folk; but ye maun ken I'm gay gleg at the uptak; there was never ony thing dune wi' hand
but I learned gay readily, 'septing reading, writing, and ciphering; but there's no the like
o' me at the fit-ba', and I can play wi' the broadsword as weel as Corporal Inglis there. I
hae broken his head or now, for as massy as he's riding ahint us.--And then ye'll no be gaun
to stay in this country?"--said he, stopping and interrupting himself.

"Probably not," replied Morton.

"Weel, I carena a boddle. Ye see I wad get my mither bestowed wi' her auld graning tittie,
auntie Meg, in the Gallowgate o' Glasgow, and then I trust they wad neither burn her for a
witch, or let her fail for fau't o' fude, or hang her up for an auld whig wife; for the provost,
they say, is very regardfu' o' sic puir bodies. And then you and me wad gang and pouss our
fortunes, like the folk i' the daft auld tales about Jock the Giant-killer and Valentine and
Orson; and we wad come back to merry Scotland, as the sang says, and I wad tak to the stilts
again, and turn sic furs on the bonny rigs o' Milnwood holms, that it wad be worth a pint but
to look at them."

"I fear," said Morton, "there is very little chance, my good friend Cuddie, of our getting
back to our old occupation."

"Hout, stir--hout, stir," replied Cuddie, "it's aye gude to keep up a hardy heart--as broken
a ship's come to land.--But what's that I hear? never stir, if my auld mither isna at the preaching
again! I ken the sough o' her texts, that sound just like the wind blawing through the spence;
and there's Kettledrummle setting to wark, too--Lordsake, if the sodgers anes get angry, they'll
murder them baith, and us for company!"

Their farther conversation was in fact interrupted by a blatant noise which rose behind them,
in which the voice of the preacher emitted, in unison with that of the old woman, tones like
the grumble of a bassoon combined with the screaking of a cracked fiddle. At first, the aged
pair of sufferers had been contented to condole with each other in smothered expressions of
complaint and indignation; but the sense of their injuries became more pungently aggravated
as they communicated with each other, and they became at length unable to suppress their ire.

"Woe, woe, and a threefold woe unto you, ye bloody and violent persecutors!" exclaimed the
Reverend Gabriel Kettledrummle--"Woe, and threefold woe unto you, even to the breaking of seals,
the blowing of trumpets, and the pouring forth of vials!"

"Ay--ay--a black cast to a' their ill-fa'ur'd faces, and the outside o' the loof to them at
the last day!" echoed the shrill counter-tenor of Mause, falling in like the second part of
a catch.

"I tell you," continued the divine, "that your rankings and your ridings--your neighings and
your prancings--your bloody, barbarous, and inhuman cruelties--your benumbing, deadening, and
debauching the conscience of poor creatures by oaths, soul-damning and self-contradictory,
have arisen from earth to Heaven like a foul and hideous outcry of perjury for hastening the
wrath to come--hugh! hugh! hugh!"

"And I say," cried Mause, in the same tune, and nearly at the same time, "that wi' this auld
breath o' mine, and it's sair taen down wi' the asthmatics and this rough trot"--

"Deil gin they would gallop," said Cuddie, "wad it but gar her haud her tongue!"

"--Wi' this auld and brief breath," continued Mause, "will I testify against the backslidings,
defections, defalcations, and declinings of the land--against the grievances and the causes
of wrath!"

"Peace, I pr'ythee--Peace, good woman," said the preacher, who had just recovered from a violent
fit of coughing, and found his own anathema borne down by Mause's better wind; "peace, and
take not the word out of the mouth of a servant of the altar.--I say, I uplift my voice and
tell you, that before the play is played out--ay, before this very sun gaes down, ye sall learn
that neither a desperate Judas, like your prelate Sharpe that's gane to his place; nor a sanctuary-breaking
Holofernes, like bloody-minded Claverhouse; nor an ambitious Diotrephes, like the lad Evandale;
nor a covetous and warld-following Demas, like him they ca' Sergeant Bothwell, that makes every
wife's plack and her meal-ark his ain; neither your carabines, nor your pistols, nor your broadswords,
nor your horses, nor your saddles, bridles, surcingles, nose-bags, nor martingales, shall resist
the arrows that are whetted and the bow that is bent against you!"

"That shall they never, I trow," echoed Mause; "castaways are they ilk ane o' them--besoms
of destruction, fit only to be flung into the fire when they have sweepit the filth out o'
the Temple--whips of small cords, knotted for the chastisement of those wha like their warldly
gudes and gear better than the Cross or the Covenant, but when that wark's done, only meet
to mak latchets to the deil's brogues."

"Fiend hae me," said Cuddie, addressing himself to Morton, "if I dinna think our mither preaches
as weel as the minister!--But it's a sair pity o' his hoast, for it aye comes on just when
he's at the best o't, and that lang routing he made air this morning, is sair again him too--Deil
an I care if he wad roar her dumb, and then he wad hae't a' to answer for himsell--It's lucky
the road's rough, and the troopers are no taking muckle tent to what they say, wi' the rattling
o' the horse's feet; but an we were anes on saft grund, we'll hear news o' a' this."

Cuddie's conjecture were but too true. The words of the prisoners had not been much attended
to while drowned by the clang of horses' hoofs on a rough and stony road; but they now entered
upon the moorlands, where the testimony of the two zealous captives lacked this saving accompaniment.
And, accordingly, no sooner had their steeds begun to tread heath and green sward, and Gabriel
Kettledrummle had again raised his voice with, "Also I uplift my voice like that of a pelican
in the wilderness"--

"And I mine," had issued from Mause, "like a sparrow on the house-tops"--

When "Hollo, ho!" cried the corporal from the rear; "rein up your tongues, the devil blister
them, or I'll clap a martingale on them."

"I will not peace at the commands of the profane," said Gabriel.

"Halliday," cried the corporal, "hast got never a gag about thee, man?--We must stop their
mouths before they talk us all dead."

Ere any answer could be made, or any measure taken in consequence of the corporal's motion,
a dragoon galloped towards Sergeant Bothwell, who was considerably a-head of the party he commanded.
On hearing the orders which he brought, Bothwell instantly rode back to the head of his party,
ordered them to close their files, to mend their pace, and to move with silence and precaution,
as they would soon be in presence of the enemy.

CHAPTER XV.

               Quantum in nobis, we've thought good
               To save the expense of Christian blood,
               And try if we, by mediation
               Of treaty, and accommodation,
               Can end the quarrel, and compose
               This bloody duel without blows.
                                             Butler.

The increased pace of the party of horsemen soon took away from their zealous captives the
breath, if not the inclination, necessary for holding forth. They had now for more than a mile
got free of the woodlands, whose broken glades had, for some time, accompanied them after they
had left the woods of Tillietudlem. A few birches and oaks still feathered the narrow ravines,
or occupied in dwarf-clusters the hollow plains of the moor. But these were gradually disappearing;
and a wide and waste country lay before them, swelling into bare hills of dark heath, intersected
by deep gullies; being the passages by which torrents forced their course in winter, and during
summer the disproportioned channels for diminutive rivulets that winded their puny way among
heaps of stones and gravel, the effects and tokens of their winter fury;--like so many spendthrifts
dwindled down by the consequences of former excesses and extravagance. This desolate region
seemed to extend farther than the eye could reach, without grandeur, without even the dignity
of mountain wildness, yet striking, from the huge proportion which it seemed to bear to such
more favoured spots of the country as were adapted to cultivation, and fitted for the support
of man; and thereby impressing irresistibly the mind of the spectator with a sense of the omnipotence
of nature, and the comparative inefficacy of the boasted means of amelioration which man is
capable of opposing to the disadvantages of climate and soil.

It is a remarkable effect of such extensive wastes, that they impose an idea of solitude even
upon those who travel through them in considerable numbers; so much is the imagination affected
by the disproportion between the desert around and the party who are traversing it. Thus the
members of a caravan of a thousand souls may feel, in the deserts of Africa or Arabia, a sense
of loneliness unknown to the individual traveller, whose solitary course is through a thriving
and cultivated country.

It was not, therefore, without a peculiar feeling of emotion, that Morton beheld, at the distance
of about half a mile, the body of the cavalry to which his escort belonged, creeping up a steep
and winding path which ascended from the more level moor into the hills. Their numbers, which
appeared formidable when they crowded through narrow roads, and seemed multiplied by appearing
partially, and at different points, among the trees, were now apparently diminished by being
exposed at once to view, and in a landscape whose extent bore such immense proportion to the
columns of horses and men, which, showing more like a drove of black cattle than a body of
soldiers, crawled slowly along the face of the hill, their force and their numbers seeming
trifling and contemptible.

"Surely," said Morton to himself, "a handful of resolute men may defend any defile in these
mountains against such a small force as this is, providing that their bravery is equal to their
enthusiasm."

While he made these reflections, the rapid movement of the horsemen who guarded him, soon traversed
the space which divided them from their companions; and ere the front of Claverhouse's column
had gained the brow of the hill which they had been seen ascending, Bothwell, with his rearguard
and prisoners, had united himself, or nearly so, with the main body led by his commander. The
extreme difficulty of the road, which was in some places steep, and in others boggy, retarded
the progress of the column, especially in the rear; for the passage of the main body, in many
instances, poached up the swamps through which they passed, and rendered them so deep, that
the last of their followers were forced to leave the beaten path, and find safer passage where
they could.

On these occasions, the distresses of the Reverend Gabriel Kettledrummle and of Mause Headrigg,
were considerably augmented, as the brutal troopers, by whom they were guarded, compelled them,
at all risks which such inexperienced riders were likely to incur, to leap their horses over
drains and gullies, or to push them through morasses and swamps.

"Through the help of the Lord I have luppen ower a wall," cried poor Mause, as her horse was,
by her rude attendants, brought up to leap the turf enclosure of a deserted fold, in which
feat her curch flew off, leaving her grey hairs uncovered.

"I am sunk in deep mire where there is no standing--I am come into deep waters where the floods
overflow me," exclaimed Kettledrummle, as the charger on which he was mounted plunged up to
the saddle-girths in a well-head, as the springs are called which supply the marshes, the sable
streams beneath spouting over the face and person of the captive preacher.

These exclamations excited shouts of laughter among their military attendants; but events soon
occurred which rendered them all sufficiently serious.

The leading files of the regiment had nearly attained the brow of the steep hill we have mentioned,
when two or three horsemen, speedily discovered to be a part of their own advanced guard, who
had acted as a patrol, appeared returning at full gallop, their horses much blown, and the
men apparently in a disordered flight. They were followed upon the spur by five or six riders,
well armed with sword and pistol, who halted upon the top of the hill, on observing the approach
of the Life-Guards. One or two who had carabines dismounted, and, taking a leisurely and deliberate
aim at the foremost rank of the regiment, discharged their pieces, by which two troopers were
wounded, one severely. They then mounted their horses, and disappeared over the ridge of the
hill, retreating with so much coolness as evidently showed, that, on the one hand, they were
undismayed by the approach of so considerable a force as was moving against them, and conscious,
on the other, that they were supported by numbers sufficient for their protection. This incident
occasioned a halt through the whole body of cavalry; and while Claverhouse himself received
the report of his advanced guard, which had been thus driven back upon the main body, Lord
Evandale advanced to the top of the ridge over which the enemy's horsemen had retired, and
Major Allan, Cornet Grahame, and the other officers, employed themselves in extricating the
regiment from the broken ground, and drawing them up on the side of the hill in two lines,
the one to support the other.

The word was then given to advance; and in a few minutes the first lines stood on the brow
and commanded the prospect on the other side. The second line closed upon them, and also the
rear-guard with the prisoners; so that Morton and his companions in captivity could, in like
manner, see the form of opposition which was now offered to the farther progress of their captors.

The brow of the hill, on which the royal Life-Guards were now drawn up, sloped downwards (on
the side opposite to that which they had ascended) with a gentle declivity, for more than a
quarter of a mile, and presented ground, which, though unequal in some places, was not altogether
unfavourable for the manoeuvres of cavalry, until near the bottom, when the slope terminated
in a marshy level, traversed through its whole length by what seemed either a natural gully,
or a deep artificial drain, the sides of which were broken by springs, trenches filled with
water, out of which peats and turf had been dug, and here and there by some straggling thickets
of alders which loved the moistness so well, that they continued to live as bushes, although
too much dwarfed by the sour soil and the stagnant bog-water to ascend into trees. Beyond this
ditch, or gully, the ground arose into a second heathy swell, or rather hill, near to the foot
of which, and' as if with the object of defending the broken ground and ditch that covered
their front, the body of insurgents appeared to be drawn up with the purpose of abiding battle.

Their infantry was divided into three lines. The first, tolerably provided with fire-arms,
were advanced almost close to the verge of the bog, so that their fire must necessarily annoy
the royal cavalry as they descended the opposite hill, the whole front of which was exposed,
and would probably be yet more fatal if they attempted to cross the morass. Behind this first
line was a body of pikemen, designed for their support in case the dragoons should force the
passage of the marsh. In their rear was their third line, consisting of countrymen armed with
scythes set straight on poles, hay-forks, spits, clubs, goads, fish-spears, and such other
rustic implements as hasty resentment had converted into instruments of war. On each flank
of the infantry, but a little backward from the bog, as if to allow themselves dry and sound
ground whereon to act in case their enemies should force the pass, there was drawn up a small
body of cavalry, who were, in general, but indifferently armed, and worse mounted, but full
of zeal for the cause, being chiefly either landholders of small property, or farmers of the
better class, whose means enabled them to serve on horseback. A few of those who had been engaed
in driving back the advanced guard of the royalists, might now be seen returning slowly towards
their own squadrons. These were the only individuals of the insurgent army which seemed to
be in motion. All the others stood firm and motionless, as the grey stones that lay scattered
on the heath around them.

The total number of the insurgents might amount to about a thousand men; but of these there
were scarce a hundred cavalry, nor were the half of them even tolerably armed. The strength
of their position, however, the sense of their having taken a desperate step, the superiority
of their numbers, but, above all, the ardour of their enthusiasm, were the means on which their
leaders reckoned, for supplying the want of arms, equipage, and military discipline.

On the side of the hill that rose above the array of battle which they had adopted, were seen
the women and even the children, whom zeal, opposed to persecution, had driven into the wilderness.
They seemed stationed there to be spectators of the engagement, by which their own fate, as
well as that of their parents, husbands, and sons, was to be decided. Like the females of the
ancient German tribes, the shrill cries which they raised, when they beheld the glittering
ranks of their enemy appear on the brow of the opposing eminence, acted as an incentive to
their relatives to fight to the last in defence of that which was dearest to them. Such exhortations
seemed to have their full and emphatic effect; for a wild halloo, which went from rank to rank
on the appearance of the soldiers, intimated the resolution of the insurgents to fight to the
uttermost.

As the horsemen halted their lines on the ridge of the hill, their trumpets and kettle-drums
sounded a bold and warlike flourish of menace and defiance, that rang along the waste like
the shrill summons of a destroying angel. The wanderers, in answer, united their voices, and
sent forth, in solemn modulation, the two first verses of the seventy-sixth Psalm, according
to the metrical version of the Scottish Kirk:

                    "In Judah's land God is well known,
                    His name's in Israel great:
                    In Salem is his tabernacle,
                    In Zion is his seat.
                    There arrows of the bow he brake,
                    The shield, the sword, the war.
                    More glorious thou than hills of prey,
                    More excellent art far."

A shout, or rather a solemn acclamation, attended the close of the stanza; and after a dead
pause, the second verse was resumed by the insurgents, who applied the destruction of the Assyrians
as prophetical of the issue of their own impending contest:--

               "Those that were stout of heart are spoil'd,
               They slept their sleep outright;
               And none of those their hands did find,
               That were the men of might.

               When thy rebuke, O Jacob's God,
               Had forth against them past,
               Their horses and their chariots both
               Were in a deep sleep cast."

There was another acclamation, which was followed by the most profound silence.

While these solemn sounds, accented by a thousand voices, were prolonged amongst the waste
hills, Claverhouse looked with great attention on the ground, and on the order of battle which
the wanderers had adopted, and in which they determined to await the assault.

"The churls," he said, "must have some old soldiers with them; it was no rustic that made choice
of that ground."

"Burley is said to be with them for certain," answered Lord Evandale, "and also Hackston of
Rathillet, Paton of Meadowhead, Cleland, and some other men of military skill."

"I judged as much," said Claverhouse, "from the style in which these detached horsemen leapt
their horses over the ditch, as they returned to their position. It was easy to see that there
were a few roundheaded troopers amongst them, the true spawn of the old Covenant. We must manage
this matter warily as well as boldly. Evandale, let the officers come to this knoll."

He moved to a small moss-grown cairn, probably the resting-place of some Celtic chief of other
times, and the call of "Officers to the front," soon brought them around their commander.

"I do not call you around me, gentlemen," said Claverhouse, "in the formal capacity of a council
of war, for I will never turn over on others the responsibility which my rank imposes on myself.
I only want the benefit of your opinions, reserving to myself, as most men do when they ask
advice, the liberty of following my own.--What say you, Cornet Grahame? Shall we attack these
fellows who are bellowing younder? You are youngest and hottest, and therefore will speak first
whether I will or no."

"Then," said Cornet Grahame, "while I have the honour to carry the standard of the Life-Guards,
it shall never, with my will, retreat before rebels. I say, charge, in God's name and the King's!"

"And what say you, Allan?" continued Claverhouse, "for Evandale is so modest, we shall never
get him to speak till you have said what you have to say."

"These fellows," said Major Allan, an old cavalier officer of experience, "are three or four
to one--I should not mind that much upon a fair field, but they are posted in a very formidable
strength, and show no inclination to quit it. I therefore think, with deference to Cornet Grahame's
opinion, that we should draw back to Tillietudlem, occupy the pass between the hills and the
open country, and send for reinforcements to my Lord Ross, who is lying at Glasgow with a regiment
of infantry. In this way we should cut them off from the Strath of Clyde, and either compel
them to come out of their stronghold, and give us battle on fair terms, or, if they remain
here, we will attack them so soon as our infantry has joined us, and enabled us to act with
effect among these ditches, bogs, and quagmires."

"Pshaw!" said the young Cornet, "what signifies strong ground, when it is only held by a crew
of canting, psalm-singing old women?"

"A man may fight never the worse," retorted Major Allan, "for honouring both his Bible and
Psalter. These fellows will prove as stubborn as steel; I know them of old."

"Their nasal psalmody," said the Cornet, "reminds our Major of the race of Dunbar."

"Had you been at that race, young man," retorted Allan, "you would have wanted nothing to remind
you of it for the longest day you have to live."

"Hush, hush, gentlemen," said Claverhouse, "these are untimely repartees.--I should like your
advice well, Major Allan, had our rascally patrols (whom I will see duly punished) brought
us timely notice of the enemy's numbers and position. But having once presented ourselves before
them in line, the retreat of the Life-Guards would argue gross timidity, and be the general
signal for insurrection throughout the west. In which case, so far from obtaining any assistance
from my Lord Ross, I promise you I should have great apprehensions of his being cut off before
we can join him, or he us. A retreat would have quite the same fatal effect upon the king's
cause as the loss of a battle--and as to the difference of risk or of safety it might make
with respect to ourselves, that, I am sure, no gentleman thinks a moment about. There must
be some gorges or passes in the morass through which we can force our way; and, were we once
on firm ground, I trust there is no man in the Life-Guards who supposes our squadrons, though
so weak in numbers, are unable to trample into dust twice the number of these unpractised clowns.--What
say you, my Lord Evandale?"

"I humbly think," said Lord Evandale, "that, go the day how it will, it must be a bloody one;
and that we shall lose many brave fellows, and probably be obliged to slaughter a great number
of these misguided men, who, after all, are Scotchmen and subjects of King Charles as well
as we are."

"Rebels! rebels! and undeserving the name either of Scotchmen or of subjects," said Claverhouse;
"but come, my lord, what does your opinion point at?"

"To enter into a treaty with these ignorant and misled men," said the young nobleman.

"A treaty! and with rebels having arms in their hands? Never while I live," answered his commander.

"At least send a trumpet and flag of truce, summoning them to lay down their weapons and disperse,"
said Lord Evandale, "upon promise of a free pardon--I have always heard, that had that been
done before the battle of Pentland hills, much blood might have been saved."

"Well," said Claverhouse, "and who the devil do you think would carry a summons to these headstrong
and desperate fanatics? They acknowledge no laws of war. Their leaders, who have been all most
active in the murder of the Archbishop of St Andrews, fight with a rope round their necks,
and are likely to kill the messenger, were it but to dip their followers in loyal blood, and
to make them as desperate of pardon as themselves."

"I will go myself," said Evandale, "if you will permit me. I have often risked my blood to
spill that of others, let me do so now in order to save human lives."

"You shall not go on such an errand, my lord," said Claverhouse; "your rank and situation render
your safety of too much consequence to the country in an age when good principles are so rare.--Here's
my brother's son Dick Grahame, who fears shot or steel as little as if the devil had given
him armour of proof against it, as the fanatics say he has given to his uncle.

     [Note:  Cornet Grahame. There was actually a young cornet of the
     Life-Guards named Grahame, and probably some relation of
     Claverhouse, slain in the skirmish of Drumclog. In the old ballad on
     the Battle of Bothwell Bridge, Claverhouse is said to have continued
     the slaughter of the fugitives in revenge of this gentleman's death.

     "Haud up your hand," then Monmouth said; "Gie quarters to these men
     for me;" But bloody Claver'se swore an oath, His kinsman's death
     avenged should be.

     The body of this young man was found shockingly mangled after the
     battle, his eyes pulled out, and his features so much defaced, that
     it was impossible to recognise him. The Tory writers say that this
     was done by the Whigs; because, finding the name Grahame wrought in
     the young gentleman's neckcloth, they took the corpse for that of
     Claver'se himself. The Whig authorities give a different account,
     from tradition, of the cause of Cornet Grahame's body being thus
     mangled. He had, say they, refused his own dog any food on the
     morning of the battle, affirming, with an oath, that he should have
     no breakfast but upon the flesh of the Whigs. The ravenous animal,
     it is said, flew at his master as soon as he fell, and lacerated his
     face and throat.

     These two stories are presented to the reader, leaving it to him to
     judge whether it is most likely that a party of persecuted and
     insurgent fanatics should mangle a body supposed to be that of their
     chief enemy, in the same manner as several persons present at
     Drumclog had shortly before treated the person of Archbishop Sharpe;
     or that a domestic dog should, for want of a single breakfast,
     become so ferocious as to feed on his own master, selecting his body
     from scores that were lying around, equally accessible to his
     ravenous appetite.]

He shall take a flag of truce and a trumpet, and ride down to the edge of the morass to summon
them to lay down their arms and disperse."

"With all my soul, Colonel," answered the Cornet; "and I'll tie my cravat on a pike to serve
for a white flag--the rascals never saw such a pennon of Flanders lace in their lives before."

"Colonel Grahame," said Evandale, while the young officer prepared for his expedition, "this
young gentleman is your nephew and your apparent heir; for God's sake, permit me to go. It
was my counsel, and I ought to stand the risk."

"Were he my only son," said Claverhouse, "this is no cause and no time to spare him. I hope
my private affections will never interfere with my public duty. If Dick Grahame falls, the
loss is chiefly mine; were your lordship to die, the King and country would be the sufferers.--Come,
gentlemen, each to his post. If our summons is unfavourably received, we will instantly attack;
and, as the old Scottish blazon has it, God shaw the right!"

CHAPTER XVI.

               With many a stout thwack and many a bang,
               Hard crab-tree and old iron rang.
                                             Hudibras.

Cornet Richard Grahame descended the hill, bearing in his hand the extempore flag of truce,
and making his managed horse keep time by bounds and curvets to the tune which he whistled.
The trumpeter followed. Five or six horsemen, having something the appearance of officers,
detached themselves from each flank of the Presbyterian army, and, meeting in the centre, approached
the ditch which divided the hollow as near as the morass would permit. Towards this group,
but keeping the opposite side of the swamp, Cornet Grahame directed his horse, his motions
being now the conspicuous object of attention to both armies; and, without disparagement to
the courage of either, it is probable there was a general wish on both sides that this embassy
might save the risks and bloodshed of the impending conflict.

When he had arrived right opposite to those, who, by their advancing to receive his message,
seemed to take upon themselves as the leaders of the enemy, Cornet Grahame commanded his trumpeter
to sound a parley. The insurgents having no instrument of martial music wherewith to make the
appropriate reply, one of their number called out with a loud, strong voice, demanding to know
why he approached their leaguer.

"To summon you in the King's name, and in that of Colonel John Grahame of Claverhouse, specially
commissioned by the right honourable Privy Council of Scotland," answered the Cornet, "to lay
down your arms, and dismiss the followers whom ye have led into rebellion, contrary to the
laws of God, of the King, and of the country."

"Return to them that sent thee," said the insurgent leader, "and tell them that we are this
day in arms for a broken Covenant and a persecuted Kirk; tell them that we renounce the licentious
and perjured Charles Stewart, whom you call king, even as he renounced the Covenant, after
having once and again sworn to prosecute to the utmost of his power all the ends thereof, really,
constantly, and sincerely, all the days of his life, having no enemies but the enemies of the
Covenant, and no friends but its friends. Whereas, far from keeping the oath he had called
God and angels to witness, his first step, after his incoming into these kingdoms, was the
fearful grasping at the prerogative of the Almighty, by that hideous Act of Supremacy, together
with his expulsing, without summons, libel, or process of law, hundreds of famous faithful
preachers, thereby wringing the bread of life out of the mouth of hungry, poor creatures, and
forcibly cramming their throats with the lifeless, saltless, foisonless, lukewarm drammock
of the fourteen false prelates, and their sycophantic, formal, carnal, scandalous creature-curates."

"I did not come to hear you preach," answered the officer, "but to know, in one word, if you
will disperse yourselves, on condition of a free pardon to all but the murderers of the late
Archbishop of St Andrews; or whether you will abide the attack of his majesty's forces, which
will instantly advance upon you."

"In one word, then," answered the spokesman, "we are here with our swords on our thighs, as
men that watch in the night. We will take one part and portion together, as brethren in righteousness.
Whosoever assails us in our good cause, his blood be on his own head. So return to them that
sent thee, and God give them and thee a sight of the evil of your ways!"

"Is not your name," said the Cornet, who began to recollect having seen the person whom he
was now speaking with, "John Balfour of Burley?"

"And if it be," said the spokesman, "hast thou aught to say against it?"

"Only," said the Cornet, "that, as you are excluded from pardon in the name of the King and
of my commanding officer, it is to these country people, and not to you, that I offer it; and
it is not with you, or such as you, that I am sent to treat."

"Thou art a young soldier, friend," said Burley, "and scant well learned in thy trade, or thou
wouldst know that the bearer of a flag of truce cannot treat with the army but through their
officers; and that if he presume to do otherwise, he forfeits his safe conduct."

While speaking these words, Burley unslung his carabine, and held it in readiness.

"I am not to be intimidated from the discharge of my duty by the menaces of a murderer," said
Cornet Grahame.--"Hear me, good people; I proclaim, in the name of the King and of my commanding
officer, full and free pardon to all, excepting"--

"I give thee fair warning," said Burley, presenting his piece.

"A free pardon to all," continued the young officer, still addressing the body of the insurgents--"to
all but"--

"Then the Lord grant grace to thy soul--amen!" said Burley.

With these words he fired, and Cornet Richard Grahame dropped from his horse. The shot was
mortal. The unfortunate young gentleman had only strength to turn himself on the ground and
mutter forth, "My poor mother!" when life forsook him in the effort. His startled horse fled
back to the regiment at the gallop, as did his scarce less affrighted attendant.

"What have you done?" said one of Balfour's brother officers.

"My duty," said Balfour, firmly. "Is it not written, Thou shalt be zealous even to slaying?
Let those, who dare, now venture to speak of truce or pardon!"

Claverhouse saw his nephew fall. He turned his eye on Evandale, while a transitory glance of
indescribable emotion disturbed, for a second's space, the serenity of his features, and briefly
said, "You see the event."

"I will avenge him, or die!" exclaimed Evandale; and, putting his horse into motion, rode furiously
down the hill, followed by his own troop, and that of the deceased Cornet, which broke down
without orders; and, each striving to be the foremost to revenge their young officer, their
ranks soon fell into confusion. These forces formed the first line of the royalists. It was
in vain that Claverhouse exclaimed, "Halt! halt! this rashness will undo us." It was all that
he could accomplish, by galloping along the second line, entreating, commanding, and even menacing
the men with his sword, that he could restrain them from following an example so contagious.

"Allan," he said, as soon as he had rendered the men in some degree more steady, "lead them
slowly down the hill to support Lord Evandale, who is about to need it very much.--Bothwell,
thou art a cool and a daring fellow"--

"Ay," muttered Bothwell, "you can remember that in a moment like this."

"Lead ten file up the hollow to the right," continued his commanding officer, "and try every
means to get through the bog; then form and charge the rebels in flank and rear, while they
are engaged with us in front."

Bothwell made a signal of intelligence and obedience, and moved off with his party at a rapid pace.

Meantime, the disaster which Claverhouse had apprehended, did not fail to take place. The troopers,
who, with Lord Evandale, had rushed down upon the enemy, soon found their disorderly career
interrupted by the impracticable character of the ground. Some stuck fast in the morass as
they attempted to struggle through, some recoiled from the attempt and remained on the brink,
others dispersed to seek a more favourable place to pass the swamp. In the midst of this confusion,
the first line of the enemy, of which the foremost rank knelt, the second stooped, and the
third stood upright, poured in a close and destructive fire that emptied at least a score of
saddles, and increased tenfold the disorder into which the horsemen had fallen. Lord Evandale,
in the meantime, at the head of a very few well-mounted men, had been able to clear the ditch,
but was no sooner across than he was charged by the left body of the enemy's cavalry, who,
encouraged by the small number of opponents that had made their way through the broken ground,
set upon them with the utmost fury, crying, "Woe, woe to the uncircumcised Philistines! down
with Dagon and all his adherents!"

The young nobleman fought like a lion; but most of his followers were killed, and he himself
could not have escaped the same fate but for a heavy fire of carabines, which Claverhouse,
who had now advanced with the second line near to the ditch, poured so effectually upon the
enemy, that both horse and foot for a moment began to shrink, and Lord Evandale, disengaged
from his unequal combat, and finding himself nearly alone, took the opportunity to effect his
retreat through the morass. But notwithstanding the loss they had sustained by Claverhouse's
first fire, the insurgents became soon aware that the advantage of numbers and of position
were so decidedly theirs, that, if they could but persist in making a brief but resolute defence,
the Life-Guards must necessarily be defeated. Their leaders flew through their ranks, exhorting
them to stand firm, and pointing out how efficacious their fire must be where both men and
horse were exposed to it; for the troopers, according to custom, fired without having dismounted.
Claverhouse, more than once, when he perceived his best men dropping by a fire which they could
not effectually return, made desperate efforts to pass the bog at various points, and renew
the battle on firm ground and fiercer terms. But the close fire of the insurgents, joined to
the natural difficulties of the pass, foiled his attempts in every point.

"We must retreat," he said to Evandale, "unless Bothwell can effect a diversion in our favour.
In the meantime, draw the men out of fire, and leave skirmishers behind these patches of alderbushes
to keep the enemy in check."

These directions being accomplished, the appearance of Bothwell with his party was earnestly
expected. But Bothwell had his own disadvantages to struggle with. His detour to the right
had not escaped the penetrating observation of Burley, who made a corresponding movement with
the left wing of the mounted insurgents, so that when Bothwell, after riding a considerable
way up the valley, found a place at which the bog could be passed, though with some difficulty,
he perceived he was still in front of a superior enemy. His daring character was in no degree
checked by this unexpected opposition.

"Follow me, my lads!" he called to his men; "never let it be said that we turned our backs
before these canting roundheads!"

With that, as if inspired by the spirit of his ancestors, he shouted, "Bothwell! Bothwell!"
and throwing himself into the morass, he struggled through it at the head of his party, and
attacked that of Burley with such fury, that he drove them back above a pistol-shot, killing
three men with his own hand. Burley, perceiving the consequences of a defeat on this point,
and that his men, though more numerous, were unequal to the regulars in using their arms and
managing their horses, threw himself across Bothwell's way, and attacked him hand to hand.
Each of the combatants was considered as the champion of his respective party, and a result
ensued more usual in romance than in real story. Their followers, on either side, instantly
paused, and looked on as if the fate of the day were to be decided by the event of the combat
between these two redoubted swordsmen. The combatants themselves seemed of the same opinion;
for, after two or three eager cuts and pushes had been exchanged, they paused, as if by joint
consent, to recover the breath which preceding exertions had exhausted, and to prepare for
a duel in which each seemed conscious he had met his match.

"You are the murdering villain, Burley," said Bothwell, griping his sword firmly, and setting
his teeth close--"you escaped me once, but"--(he swore an oath too tremendous to be written
down)--"thy head is worth its weight of silver, and it shall go home at my saddle-bow, or my
saddle shall go home empty for me."

"Yes," replied Burley, with stern and gloomy deliberation, "I am that John Balfour, who promised
to lay thy head where thou shouldst never lift it again; and God do so unto me, and more also,
if I do not redeem my word!"

"Then a bed of heather, or a thousand merks!" said Bothwell, striking at Burley with his full
force.

"The sword of the Lord and of Gideon!" answered Balfour, as he parried and returned the blow.

There have seldom met two combatants more equally matched in strength of body, skill in the
management of their weapons and horses, determined courage, and unrelenting hostility. After
exchanging many desperate blows, each receiving and inflicting several wounds, though of no
great consequence, they grappled together as if with the desperate impatience of mortal hate,
and Bothwell, seizing his enemy by the shoulder-belt, while the grasp of Balfour was upon his
own collar, they came headlong to the ground. The companions of Burley hastened to his assistance,
but were repelled by the dragoons, and the battle became again general. But nothing could withdraw
the attention of the combatants from each other, or induce them to unclose the deadly clasp
in which they rolled together on the ground, tearing, struggling, and foaming, with the inveteracy
of thorough-bred bull-dogs.

Several horses passed over them in the melee without their quitting hold of each other, until
the sword-arm of Bothwell was broken by the kick of a charger. He then relinquished his grasp
with a deep and suppressed groan, and both combatants started to their feet. Bothwell's right
hand dropped helpless by his side, but his left griped to the place where his dagger hung;
it had escaped from the sheath in the struggle,--and, with a look of mingled rage and despair,
he stood totally defenceless, as Balfour, with a laugh of savage joy, flourished his sword
aloft, and then passed it through his adversary's body. Bothwell received the thrust without
falling--it had only grazed on his ribs. He attempted no farther defence, but, looking at Burley
with a grin of deadly hatred, exclaimed--"Base peasant churl, thou hast spilt the blood of
a line of kings!"

To catch a stray horse by the bridle, throw himself upon it, and rush to the assistance of
his followers, was, with Burley, the affair of a moment. And as the fall of Bothwell had given
to the insurgents all the courage of which it had deprived his comrades, the issue of this
partial contest did not remain long undecided. Several soldiers were slain, the rest driven
back over the morass and dispersed, and the victorious Burley, with his party, crossed it in
their turn, to direct against Claverhouse the very manoeuvre which he had instructed Bothwell
to execute. He now put his troop in order, with the view of attacking the right wing of the
royalists; and, sending news of his success to the main body, exhorted them, in the name of
Heaven, to cross the marsh, and work out the glorious work of the Lord by a general attack
upon the enemy.

Meanwhile, Claverhouse, who had in some degree remedied the confusion occasioned by the first
irregular and unsuccessful attack, and reduced the combat in front to a distant skirmish with
firearms, chiefly maintained by some dismounted troopers whom he had posted behind the cover
of the shrub-by copses of alders, which in some places covered the edge of the morass, and
whose close, cool, and well-aimed fire greatly annoyed the enemy, and concealed their own deficiency
of numbers,--Claverhouse, while he maintained the contest in this manner, still expecting that
a diversion by Bothwell and his party might facilitate a general attack, was accosted by one
of the dragoons, whose bloody face and jaded horse bore witness he was come from hard service.

"What is the matter, Halliday?" said Claverhouse, for he knew every man in his regiment by
name--"Where is Bothwell?"

"Bothwell is down," replied Halliday, "and many a pretty fellow with him."

"Then the king," said Claverhouse, with his usual composure, "has lost a stout soldier.--The
enemy have passed the marsh, I suppose?"

"With a strong body of horse, commanded by the devil incarnate that killed Bothwell," answered
the terrified soldier.

"Hush! hush!" said Claverhouse, putting his finger on his lips, "not a word to any one but
me.--Lord Evandale, we must retreat. The fates will have it so. Draw together the men that
are dispersed in the skirmishing work. Let Allan form the regiment, and do you two retreat
up the hill in two bodies, each halting alternately as the other falls back. I'll keep the
rogues in check with the rear-guard, making a stand and facing from time to time. They will
be over the ditch presently, for I see their whole line in motion and preparing to cross; therefore
lose no time."

"Where is Bothwell with his party?" said Lord Evandale, astonished at the coolness of his commander.

"Fairly disposed of," said Claverhouse, in his ear--"the king has lost a servant, and the devil
has got one. But away to business, Evandale--ply your spurs and get the men together. Allan
and you must keep them steady. This retreating is new work for us all; but our turn will come
round another day."

Evandale and Allan betook themselves to their task; but ere they had arranged the regiment
for the purpose of retreating in two alternate bodies, a considerable number of the enemy had
crossed the marsh. Claverhouse, who had retained immediately around his person a few of his
most active and tried men, charged those who had crossed in person, while they were yet disordered
by the broken ground. Some they killed, others they repulsed into the morass, and checked the
whole so as to enable the main body, now greatly diminished, as well as disheartened by the
loss they had sustained, to commence their retreat up the hill.

But the enemy's van being soon reinforced and supported, compelled Claverhouse to follow his
troops. Never did man, however, better maintain the character of a soldier than he did that
day. Conspicuous by his black horse and white feather, he was first in the repeated charges
which he made at every favourable opportunity, to arrest the progress of the pursuers, and
to cover the retreat of his regiment. The object of aim to every one, he seemed as if he were
impassive to their shot. The superstitious fanatics, who looked upon him as a man gifted by
the Evil Spirit with supernatural means of defence, averred that they saw the bullets recoil
from his jack-boots and buff-coat like hailstones from a rock of granite, as he galloped to
and fro amid the storm of the battle. Many a whig that day loaded his musket with a dollar
cut into slugs, in order that a silver bullet (such was their belief) might bring down the
persecutor of the holy kirk, on whom lead had no power.

"Try him with the cold steel," was the cry at every renewed charge--"powder is wasted on him.
Ye might as weel shoot at the Auld Enemy himsell."

     [Note: Proof against Shot given by Satan. The belief of the
     Covenanters that their principal enemies, and Claverhouse in
     particular, had obtained from the Devil a charm which rendered them
     proof against leaden bullets, led them to pervert even the
     circumstances of his death. Howie of Lochgoin, after giving some
     account of the battle of Killicrankie, adds:

     "The battle was very bloody, and by Mackay's third fire, Claverhouse
     fell, of whom historians give little account; but it has been said
     for certain, that his own waiting-servant, taking a resolution to
     rid the world of this truculent bloody monster, and knowing he had
     proof of lead, shot him with a silver button he had before taken off
     his own coat for that purpose. However, he fell, and with him
     Popery, and King James's interest in Scotland."--God's Judgment on
     Persecutors, p. xxxix.

     Original note.--"Perhaps some may think this anent proof of a shot a
     paradox, and be ready to object here, as formerly, concerning Bishop
     Sharpe and Dalziel--'How can the Devil have or give a power to save
     life?' Without entering upon the thing in its reality, I shall only
     observe, 1st, That it is neither in his power, or of his nature, to
     be a saviour of men's lives; he is called Apollyon the destroyer.
     2d, That even in this case he is said only to give enchantment
     against one kind of metal, and this does not save life: for the lead
     would not take Sharpe or Claverhouse's lives, yet steel and silver
     would do it; and for Dalziel, though he died not on the field, he
     did not escape the arrows of the Almighty."--Ibidem.]

But though this was loudly shouted, yet the awe on the insurgents' minds was such, that they
gave way before Claverhouse as before a supernatural being, and few men ventured to cross swords
with him. Still, however, he was fighting in retreat, and with all the disadvantages attending
that movement. The soldiers behind him, as they beheld the increasing number of enemies who
poured over the morass, became unsteady; and, at every successive movement, Major Allan and
Lord Evandale found it more and more difficult to bring them to halt and form line regularly,
while, on the other hand, their motions in the act of retreating became, by degrees, much more
rapid than was consistent with good order. As the retiring soldiers approached nearer to the
top of the ridge, from which in so luckless an hour they had descended, the panic began to
increase. Every one became impatient to place the brow of the hill between him and the continued
fire of the pursuers; nor could any individual think it reasonable that he should be the last
in the retreat, and thus sacrifice his own safety for that of others. In this mood, several
troopers set spurs to their horses and fled outright, and the others became so unsteady in
their movements and formations, that their officers every moment feared they would follow the
same example.

Amid this scene of blood and confusion, the trampling of the horses, the groans of the wounded,
the continued fire of the enemy, which fell in a succession of unintermitted musketry, while
loud shouts accompanied each bullet which the fall of a trooper showed to have been successfully
aimed--amid all the terrors and disorders of such a scene, and when it was dubious how soon
they might be totally deserted by their dispirited soldiery, Evandale could not forbear remarking
the composure of his commanding officer. Not at Lady Margaret's breakfast-table that morning
did his eye appear more lively, or his demeanour more composed. He had closed up to Evandale
for the purpose of giving some orders, and picking out a few men to reinforce his rear-guard.

"If this bout lasts five minutes longer," he said, in a whisper, "our rogues will leave you,
my lord, old Allan, and myself, the honour of fighting this battle with our own hands. I must
do something to disperse the musketeers who annoy them so hard, or we shall be all shamed.
Don't attempt to succour me if you see me go down, but keep at the head of your men; get off
as you can, in God's name, and tell the king and the council I died in my duty!"

So saying, and commanding about twenty stout men to follow him, he gave, with this small body,
a charge so desperate and unexpected, that he drove the foremost of the pursuers back to some
distance. In the confusion of the assault he singled out Burley, and, desirous to strike terror
into his followers, he dealt him so severe a blow on the head, as cut through his steel head-piece,
and threw him from his horse, stunned for the moment, though unwounded. A wonderful thing it
was afterwards thought, that one so powerful as Balfour should have sunk under the blow of
a man, to appearance so slightly made as Claverhouse; and the vulgar, of course, set down to
supernatural aid the effect of that energy, which a determined spirit can give to a feebler
arm. Claverhouse had, in this last charge, however, involved himself too deeply among the insurgents,
and was fairly surrounded.

Lord Evandale saw the danger of his commander, his body of dragoons being then halted, while
that commanded by Allan was in the act of retreating. Regardless of Claverhouse's disinterested
command to the contrary, he ordered the party which he headed to charge down hill and extricate
their Colonel. Some advanced with him--most halted and stood uncertain--many ran away. With
those who followed Evandale, he disengaged Claverhouse. His assistance just came in time, for
a rustic had wounded his horse in a most ghastly manner by the blow of a scythe, and was about
to repeat the stroke when Lord Evandale cut him down. As they got out of the press, they looked
round them. Allan's division had ridden clear over the hill, that officer's authority having
proved altogether unequal to halt them. Evandale's troop was scattered and in total confusion.

"What is to be done, Colonel?" said Lord Evandale.

"We are the last men in the field, I think," said Claverhouse; "and when men fight as long
as they can, there is no shame in flying. Hector himself would say, 'Devil take the hindmost,'
when there are but twenty against a thousand.--Save yourselves, my lads, and rally as soon
as you can.--Come, my lord, we must e'en ride for it."

So saying, he put spurs to his wounded horse; and the generous animal, as if conscious that
the life of his rider depended on his exertions, pressed forward with speed, unabated either
by pain or loss of blood.

     [Note:  Claverhouse's Charger. It appears, from the letter of
     Claverhouse afterwards quoted, that the horse on which he rode at
     Drumclog was not black, but sorrel. The author has been misled as to
     the colour by the many extraordinary traditions current in Scotland
     concerning Claverhouse's famous black charger, which was generally
     believed to have been a gift to its rider from the Author of Evil,
     who is said to have performed the Caesarean operation upon its dam.
     This horse was so fleet, and its rider so expert, that they are said
     to have outstripped and coted, or turned, a hare upon the Bran-Law,
     near the head of Moffat Water, where the descent is so precipitous,
     that no merely earthly horse could keep its feet, or merely mortal
     rider could keep the saddle.

     There is a curious passage in the testimony of John Dick, one of the
     suffering Presbyterians, in which the author, by describing each of
     the persecutors by their predominant qualities or passions, shows
     how little their best-loved attributes would avail them in the great
     day of judgment. When he introduces Claverhouse, it is to reproach
     him with his passion for horses in general, and for that steed in
     particular, which was killed at Drumclog, in the manner described in
     the text:

     "As for that bloodthirsty wretch, Claverhouse, how thinks he to
     shelter himself that day? Is it possible the pitiful thing can be so
     mad as to think to secure himself by the fleetness of his horse, (a
     creature he has so much respect for, that he regarded more the loss
     of his horse at Drumclog, than all the men that fell there, and sure
     there fell prettier men on either side than himself?) No,
     sure--could he fall upon a chemist that could extract the spirit
     out of all the horses in the world, and infuse them into his one,
     though he were on that horse never so well mounted, he need not
     dream of escaping."--The Testimony to the Doctrine, Worship,
     Discipline, and Government of the Church of Scotland, as it was
     left in write by that truly pious and eminently faithful, and now
     glorified Martyr, Mr John Dick. To which is added, his last Speech
     and Behaviour on the Scaffold, on 5th March, 1684, which day he
     sealed this testimony. 57 pp. 4to. No year or place of publication.

     The reader may perhaps receive some farther information on the
     subject of Cornet Grahame's death and the flight of Claverhouse,
     from the following Latin lines, a part of a poem entitled, Bellum
     Bothuellianum, by Andrew Guild, which exists in manuscript in the
     Advocates' Library.]

A few officers and soldiers followed him, but in a very irregular and tumultuary manner. The
flight of Claverhouse was the signal for all the stragglers, who yet offered desultory resistance,
to fly as fast as they could, and yield up the field of battle to the victorious insurgents.

CHAPTER XVII.

          But see! through the fast-flashing lightnings of war,
          What steed to the desert flies frantic and far?
                                                  Campbell.

During the severe skirmish of which we have given the details, Morton, together with Cuddie
and his mother, and the Reverend Gabriel Kettledrummle, remained on the brow of the hill, near
to the small cairn, or barrow, beside which Claverhouse had held his preliminary council of
war, so that they had a commanding view of the action which took place in the bottom. They
were guarded by Corporal Inglis and four soldiers, who, as may readily be supposed, were much
more intent on watching the fluctuating fortunes of the battle, than in attending to what passed
among their prisoners.

"If you lads stand to their tackle," said Cuddie, "we'll hae some chance o' getting our necks
out o' the brecham again; but I misdoubt them--they hae little skeel o' arms."

"Much is not necessary, Cuddie," answered Morton; "they have a strong position, and weapons
in their hands, and are more than three times the number of their assailants. If they cannot
fight for their freedom now, they and theirs deserve to lose it for ever."

"O, sirs," exclaimed Mause, "here's a goodly spectacle indeed! My spirit is like that of the
blessed Elihu, it burns within me--my bowels are as wine which lacketh vent--they are ready
to burst like new bottles. O, that He may look after His ain people in this day of judgment
and deliverance!--And now, what ailest thou, precious Mr Gabriel Kettledrummle? I say, what
ailest thou, that wert a Nazarite purer than snow, whiter than milk, more ruddy than sulphur,"
(meaning, perhaps, sapphires,)--"I say, what ails thee now, that thou art blacker than a coal,
that thy beauty is departed, and thy loveliness withered like a dry potsherd? Surely it is
time to be up and be doing, to cry loudly and to spare not, and to wrestle for the puir lads
that are yonder testifying with their ain blude and that of their enemies."

This expostulation implied a reproach on Mr Kettledrummle, who, though an absolute Boanerges,
or son of thunder, in the pulpit, when the enemy were afar, and indeed sufficiently contumacious,
as we have seen, when in their power, had been struck dumb by the firing, shouts, and shrieks,
which now arose from the valley, and--as many an honest man might have been, in a situation
where he could neither fight nor fly--was too much dismayed to take so favourable an opportunity
to preach the terrors of presbytery, as the courageous Mause had expected at his hand, or even
to pray for the successful event of the battle. His presence of mind was not, however, entirely
lost, any more than his jealous respect for his reputation as a pure and powerful preacher
of the word.

"Hold your peace, woman!" he said, "and do not perturb my inward meditations and the wrestlings
wherewith I wrestle.--But of a verity the shooting of the foemen doth begin to increase! peradventure,
some pellet may attain unto us even here. Lo! I will ensconce me behind the cairn, as behind
a strong wall of defence."

"He's but a coward body after a'," said Cuddie, who was himself by no means deficient in that
sort of courage which consists in insensibility to danger; "he's but a daidling coward body.
He'll never fill Rumbleberry's bonnet.--Odd! Rumbleberry fought and flyted like a fleeing dragon.
It was a great pity, puir man, he couldna cheat the woodie. But they say he gaed singing and
rejoicing till't, just as I wad gang to a bicker o' brose, supposing me hungry, as I stand
a gude chance to be.-- Eh, sirs! yon's an awfu' sight, and yet ane canna keep their een aff
frae it!"

Accordingly, strong curiosity on the part of Morton and Cuddie, together with the heated enthusiasm
of old Mause, detained them on the spot from which they could best hear and see the issue of
the action, leaving to Kettledrummle to occupy alone his place of security. The vicissitudes
of combat, which we have already described, were witnessed by our spectators from the top of
the eminence, but without their being able positively to determine to what they tended. That
the presbyterians defended themselves stoutly was evident from the heavy smoke, which, illumined
by frequent flashes of fire, now eddied along the valley, and hid the contending parties in
its sulphureous shade. On the other hand, the continued firing from the nearer side of the
morass indicated that the enemy persevered in their attack, that the affair was fiercely disputed,
and that every thing was to be apprehended from a continued contest in which undisciplined
rustics had to repel the assaults of regular troops, so completely officered and armed.

At length horses, whose caparisons showed that they belonged to the Life-Guards, began to fly
masterless out of the confusion. Dismounted soldiers next appeared, forsaking the conflict,
and straggling over the side of the hill, in order to escape from the scene of action. As the
numbers of these fugitives increased, the fate of the day seemed no longer doubtful. A large
body was then seen emerging from the smoke, forming irregularly on the hill-side, and with
difficulty kept stationary by their officers, until Evandale's corps also appeared in full
retreat. The result of the conflict was then apparent, and the joy of the prisoners was corresponding
to their approaching deliverance.

"They hae dune the job for anes," said Cuddie, "an they ne'er do't again."

"They flee!--they flee!" exclaimed Mause, in ecstasy. "O, the truculent tyrants! they are riding
now as they never rode before. O, the false Egyptians--the proud Assyrians--the Philistines--the
Moabites--the Edomites--the Ishmaelites!--The Lord has brought sharp swords upon them, to make
them food for the fowls of heaven and the beasts of the field. See how the clouds roll, and
the fire flashes ahint them, and goes forth before the chosen of the Covenant, e'en like the
pillar o' cloud and the pillar o' flame that led the people of Israel out o' the land of Egypt!
This is indeed a day of deliverance to the righteous, a day of pouring out of wrath to the
persecutors and the ungodly!"

"Lord save us, mither," said Cuddie, "haud the clavering tongue o' ye, and lie down ahint the
cairn, like Kettledrummle, honest man! The whigamore bullets ken unco little discretion, and
will just as sune knock out the harns o' a psalm-singing auld wife as a swearing dragoon."

"Fear naething for me, Cuddie," said the old dame, transported to ecstasy by the success of
her party; "fear naething for me! I will stand, like Deborah, on the tap o' the cairn, and
tak up my sang o' reproach against these men of Harosheth of the Gentiles, whose horse-hoofs
are broken by their prancing."

The enthusiastic old woman would, in fact, have accomplished her purpose, of mounting on the
cairn, and becoming, as she said, a sign and a banner to the people, had not Cuddie, with more
filial tenderness than respect, detained her by such force as his shackled arms would permit
him to exert.

"Eh, sirs!" he said, having accomplished this task, "look out yonder, Milnwood; saw ye ever
mortal fight like the deevil Claver'se?--Yonder he's been thrice doun amang them, and thrice
cam free aff.--But I think we'll soon be free oursells, Milnwood. Inglis and his troopers look
ower their shouthers very aften, as if they liked the road ahint them better than the road afore."

Cuddie was not mistaken; for, when the main tide of fugitives passed at a little distance from
the spot where they were stationed, the corporal and his party fired their carabines at random
upon the advancing insurgents, and, abandoning all charge of their prisoners, joined the retreat
of their comrades. Morton and the old woman, whose hands were at liberty, lost no time in undoing
the bonds of Cuddie and of the clergyman, both of whom had been secured by a cord tied round
their arms above the elbows. By the time this was accomplished, the rear-guard of the dragoons,
which still preserved some order, passed beneath the hillock or rising ground which was surmounted
by the cairn already repeatedly mentioned. They exhibited all the hurry and confusion incident
to a forced retreat, but still continued in a body. Claverhouse led the van, his naked sword
deeply dyed with blood, as were his face and clothes. His horse was all covered with gore,
and now reeled with weakness. Lord Evandale, in not much better plight, brought up the rear,
still exhorting the soldiers to keep together and fear nothing. Several of the men were wounded,
and one or two dropped from their horses as they surmounted the hill.

Mause's zeal broke forth once more at this spectacle, while she stood on the heath with her
head uncovered, and her grey hairs streaming in the wind, no bad representation of a superannuated
bacchante, or Thessalian witch in the agonies of incantation. She soon discovered Claverhouse
at the head of the fugitive party, and exclaimed with bitter irony, "Tarry, tarry, ye wha were
aye sae blithe to be at the meetings of the saints, and wad ride every muir in Scotland to
find a conventicle! Wilt thou not tarry, now thou hast found ane? Wilt thou not stay for one
word mair? Wilt thou na bide the afternoon preaching?--Wae betide ye!" she said, suddenly changing
her tone, "and cut the houghs of the creature whase fleetness ye trust in!--Sheugh--sheugh!--awa
wi'ye, that hae spilled sae muckle blude, and now wad save your ain--awa wi'ye for a railing
Rabshakeh, a cursing Shimei, a bloodthirsty Doeg!--The swords drawn now that winna be lang
o' o'ertaking ye, ride as fast as ye will."

Claverhouse, it may be easily supposed, was too busy to attend to her reproaches, but hastened
over the hill, anxious to get the remnant of his men out of gun-shot, in hopes of again collecting
the fugitives round his standard. But as the rear of his followers rode over the ridge, a shot
struck Lord Evandale's horse, which instantly sunk down dead beneath him. Two of the whig horsemen,
who were the foremost in the pursuit, hastened up with the purpose of killing him, for hitherto
there had been no quarter given. Morton, on the other hand, rushed forward to save his life,
if possible, in order at once to indulge his natural generosity, and to requite the obligation
which Lord Evandale had conferred on him that morning, and under which circumstances had made
him wince so acutely. Just as he had assisted Evandale, who was much wounded, to extricate
himself from his dying horse, and to gain his feet, the two horsemen came up, and one of them
exclaiming, "Have at the red-coated tyrant!" made a blow at the young nobleman, which Morton
parried with difficulty, exclaiming to the rider, who was no other than Burley himself, "Give
quarter to this gentleman, for my sake--for the sake," he added, observing that Burley did
not immediately recognise him, "of Henry Morton, who so lately sheltered you."

"Henry Morton?" replied Burley, wiping his bloody brow with his bloodier hand; "did I not say
that the son of Silas Morton would come forth out of the land of bondage, nor be long an indweller
in the tents of Ham? Thou art a brand snatched out of the burning--But for this booted apostle
of prelacy, he shall die the death!--We must smite them hip and thigh, even from the rising
to the going down of the sun. It is our commission to slay them like Amalek, and utterly destroy
all they have, and spare neither man nor woman, infant nor suckling; therefore, hinder me not,"
he continued, endeavouring again to cut down Lord Evandale, "for this work must not be wrought
negligently."

"You must not, and you shall not, slay him, more especially while incapable of defence," said
Morton, planting himself before Lord Evandale so as to intercept any blow that should be aimed
at him; "I owed my life to him this morning--my life, which was endangered solely by my having
sheltered you; and to shed his blood when he can offer no effectual resistance, were not only
a cruelty abhorrent to God and man, but detestable ingratitude both to him and to me."

Burley paused.--"Thou art yet," he said, "in the court of the Gentiles, and I compassionate
thy human blindness and frailty. Strong meat is not fit for babes, nor the mighty and grinding
dispensation under which I draw my sword, for those whose hearts are yet dwelling in huts of
clay, whose footsteps are tangled in the mesh of mortal sympathies, and who clothe themselves
in the righteousness that is as filthy rags. But to gain a soul to the truth is better than
to send one to Tophet; therefore I give quarter to this youth, providing the grant is confirmed
by the general council of God's army, whom he hath this day blessed with so signal a deliverance.--Thou
art unarmed--Abide my return here. I must yet pursue these sinners, the Amalekites, and destroy
them till they be utterly consumed from the face of the land, even from Havilah unto Shur."

So saying, he set spurs to his horse, and continued to pursue the chase.

"Cuddie," said Morton, "for God's sake catch a horse as quickly as you can. I will not trust
Lord Evandale's life with these obdurate men.--You are wounded, my lord.--Are you able to continue
your retreat?" he continued, addressing himself to his prisoner, who, half-stunned by the fall,
was but beginning to recover himself.

"I think so," replied Lord Evandale. "But is it possible?--Do I owe my life to Mr Morton?"

"My interference would have been the same from common humanity," replied Morton; "to your lordship
it was a sacred debt of gratitude."

Cuddie at this instant returned with a horse.

"God-sake, munt--munt, and ride like a fleeing hawk, my lord," said the good-natured fellow,
"for ne'er be in me, if they arena killing every ane o' the wounded and prisoners!"

Lord Evandale mounted the horse, while Cuddie officiously held the stirrup.

"Stand off, good fellow, thy courtesy may cost thy life.--Mr Morton," he continued, addressing
Henry, "this makes us more than even--rely on it, I will never forget your generosity--Farewell."

He turned his horse, and rode swiftly away in the direction which seemed least exposed to pursuit.

Lord Evandale had just rode off, when several of the insurgents, who were in the front of the
pursuit, came up, denouncing vengeance on Henry Morton and Cuddie for having aided the escape
of a Philistine, as they called the young nobleman.

"What wad ye hae had us to do?" cried Cuddie. "Had we aught to stop a man wi' that had twa
pistols and a sword? Sudna ye hae come faster up yoursells, instead of flyting at huz?"

This excuse would hardly have passed current; but Kettledrummle, who now awoke from his trance
of terror, and was known to, and reverenced by, most of the wanderers, together with Mause,
who possessed their appropriate language as well as the preacher himself, proved active and
effectual intercessors.

"Touch them not, harm them not," exclaimed Kettledrummle, in his very best double-bass tones;
"this is the son of the famous Silas Morton, by whom the Lord wrought great things in this
land at the breaking forth of the reformation from prelacy, when there was a plentiful pouring
forth of the Word and a renewing of the Covenant; a hero and champion of those blessed days,
when there was power and efficacy, and convincing and converting of sinners, and heart-exercises,
and fellowships of saints, and a plentiful flowing forth of the spices of the garden of Eden."

"And this is my son Cuddie," exclaimed Mause, in her turn, "the son of his father, Judden Headrigg,
wha was a douce honest man, and of me, Mause Middlemas, an unworthy professor and follower
of the pure gospel, and ane o' your ain folk. Is it not written, 'Cut ye not off the tribe
of the families of the Kohathites from among the Levites?' Numbers, fourth and aughteenth--O!
sirs! dinna be standing here prattling wi' honest folk, when ye suld be following forth your
victory with which Providence has blessed ye."

This party having passed on, they were immediately beset by another, to whom it was necessary
to give the same explanation. Kettledrummle, whose fear was much dissipated since the firing
had ceased, again took upon him to be intercessor, and grown bold, as he felt his good word
necessary for the protection of his late fellow-captives, he laid claim to no small share of
the merit of the victory, appealing to Morton and Cuddie, whether the tide of battle had not
turned while he prayed on the Mount of Jehovah-Nissi, like Moses, that Israel might prevail
over Amalek; but granting them, at the same time, the credit of holding up his hands when they
waxed heavy, as those of the prophet were supported by Aaron and Hur. It seems probable that
Kettledrummle allotted this part in the success to his companions in adversity, lest they should
be tempted to disclose his carnal self-seeking and falling away, in regarding too closely his
own personal safety. These strong testimonies in favour of the liberated captives quickly flew
abroad, with many exaggerations, among the victorious army. The reports on the subject were
various; but it was universally agreed, that young Morton of Milnwood, the son of the stout
soldier of the Covenant, Silas Morton, together with the precious Gabriel Kettledrummle, and
a singular devout Christian woman, whom many thought as good as himself at extracting a doctrine
or an use, whether of terror or consolation, had arrived to support the good old cause, with
a reinforcement of a hundred well-armed men from the Middle Ward.

     [Note: Skirmish at Drumclog. This affair, the only one in which
     Claverhouse was defeated, or the insurgent Cameronians successful,
     was fought pretty much in the manner mentioned in the text. The
     Royalists lost about thirty or forty men. The commander of the
     Presbyterian, or rather Convenanting party, was Mr Robert Hamilton,
     of the honourable House of Preston, brother of Sir William Hamilton,
     to whose title and estate he afterwards succeeded; but, according to
     his biographer, Howie of Lochgoin, he never took possession of
     either, as he could not do so without acknowledging the right of
     King William (an uncovenanted monarch) to the crown. Hamilton had
     been bred by Bishop Burnet, while the latter lived at Glasgow; his
     brother, Sir Thomas, having married a sister of that historian. "He
     was then," says the Bishop, "a lively, hopeful young man; but
     getting into that company, and into their notions, he became a
     crack-brained enthusiast."

     Several well-meaning persons have been much scandalized at the
     manner in which the victors are said to have conducted themselves
     towards the prisoners at Drumclog. But the principle of these poor
     fanatics, (I mean the high-flying, or Cameronian party,) was to
     obtain not merely toleration for their church, but the same
     supremacy which Presbytery had acquired in Scotland after the treaty
     of Rippon, betwixt Charles I. and his Scottish subjects, in 1640.

     The fact is, that they conceived themselves a chosen people, sent
     forth to extirpate the heathen, like the Jews of old, and under a
     similar charge to show no quarter.

     The historian of the Insurrection of Bothwell makes the following
     explicit avowal of the principles on which their General acted:--

