Immediately after dismissing Tilly's first embassy, he had despatched his field-marshal Arnheim
in all haste to the camp of Gustavus, to solicit the prompt assistance of that monarch whom
he had so long neglected.  The king concealed the inward satisfaction he felt at this long
wished for result.  "I am sorry for the Elector," said he, with dissembled coldness, to the
ambassador; "had he heeded my repeated remonstrances, his country would never have seen the
face of an enemy, and Magdeburg would not have fallen.  Now, when necessity leaves him no alternative,
he has recourse to my assistance.  But tell him, that I cannot, for the sake of the Elector
of Saxony, ruin my own cause, and that of my confederates.  What pledge have I for the sincerity
of a prince whose minister is in the pay of Austria, and who will abandon me as soon as the
Emperor flatters him, and withdraws his troops from his frontiers?  Tilly, it is true, has
received a strong reinforcement; but this shall not prevent me from meeting him with confidence,
as soon as I have covered my rear."

The Saxon minister could make no other reply to these reproaches, than that it was best to
bury the past in oblivion.

He pressed the king to name the conditions, on which he would afford assistance to Saxony,
and offered to guarantee their acceptance.  "I require," said Gustavus, "that the Elector shall
cede to me the fortress of Wittenberg, deliver to me his eldest sons as hostages, furnish my
troops with three months' pay, and deliver up to me the traitors among his ministry."

"Not Wittenberg alone," said the Elector, when he received this answer, and hurried back his
minister to the Swedish camp, "not Wittenberg alone, but Torgau, and all Saxony, shall be open
to him; my whole family shall be his hostages, and if that is insufficient, I will place myself
in his hands.  Return and inform him I am ready to deliver to him any traitors he shall name,
to furnish his army with the money he requires, and to venture my life and fortune in the good
cause."

The king had only desired to test the sincerity of the Elector's new sentiments.  Convinced
of it, he now retracted these harsh demands. "The distrust," said he, "which was shown to myself
when advancing to the relief of Magdeburg, had naturally excited mine; the Elector's present
confidence demands a return.  I am satisfied, provided he grants my army one month's pay, and
even for this advance I hope to indemnify him."

Immediately upon the conclusion of the treaty, the king crossed the Elbe, and next day joined
the Saxons.  Instead of preventing this junction, Tilly had advanced against Leipzig, which
he summoned to receive an imperial garrison.  In hopes of speedy relief, Hans Von der Pforta,
the commandant, made preparations for his defence, and laid the suburb towards Halle in ashes.
But the ill condition of the fortifications made resistance vain, and on the second day the
gates were opened.  Tilly had fixed his head quarters in the house of a grave-digger, the only
one still standing in the suburb of Halle:  here he signed the capitulation, and here, too,
he arranged his attack on the King of Sweden.  Tilly grew pale at the representation of the
death's head and cross bones, with which the proprietor had decorated his house; and, contrary
to all expectation, Leipzig experienced moderate treatment.

Meanwhile, a council of war was held at Torgau, between the King of Sweden and the Elector
of Saxony, at which the Elector of Brandenburg was also present.  The resolution which should
now be adopted, was to decide irrevocably the fate of Germany and the Protestant religion,
the happiness of nations and the destiny of their princes.  The anxiety of suspense which,
before every decisive resolve, oppresses even the hearts of heroes, appeared now for a moment
to overshadow the great mind of Gustavus Adolphus.  "If we decide upon battle," said he, "the
stake will be nothing less than a crown and two electorates.  Fortune is changeable, and the
inscrutable decrees of Heaven may, for our sins, give the victory to our enemies.  My kingdom,
it is true, even after the loss of my life and my army, would still have a hope left.  Far
removed from the scene of action, defended by a powerful fleet, a well-guarded frontier, and
a warlike population, it would at least be safe from the worst consequences of a defeat.  But
what chances of escape are there for you, with an enemy so close at hand?"  Gustavus Adolphus
displayed the modest diffidence of a hero, whom an overweening belief of his own strength did
not blind to the greatness of his danger; John George, the confidence of a weak man, who knows
that he has a hero by his side. Impatient to rid his territories as soon as possible of the
oppressive presence of two armies, he burned for a battle, in which he had no former laurels
to lose.  He was ready to march with his Saxons alone against Leipzig, and attack Tilly.  At
last Gustavus acceded to his opinion; and it was resolved that the attack should be made without
delay, before the arrival of the reinforcements, which were on their way, under Altringer and
Tiefenbach.  The united Swedish and Saxon armies now crossed the Mulda, while the Elector returned
homeward.

Early on the morning of the 7th September, 1631, the hostile armies came in sight of each other.
Tilly, who, since he had neglected the opportunity of overpowering the Saxons before their
union with the Swedes, was disposed to await the arrival of the reinforcements, had taken up
a strong and advantageous position not far from Leipzig, where he expected he should be able
to avoid the battle.  But the impetuosity of Pappenheim obliged him, as soon as the enemy were
in motion, to alter his plans, and to move to the left, in the direction of the hills which
run from the village of Wahren towards Lindenthal.  At the foot of these heights, his army
was drawn up in a single line, and his artillery placed upon the heights behind, from which
it could sweep the whole extensive plain of Breitenfeld.  The Swedish and Saxon army advanced
in two columns, having to pass the Lober near Podelwitz, in Tilly's front.

To defend the passage of this rivulet, Pappenheim advanced at the head of 2000 cuirassiers,
though after great reluctance on the part of Tilly, and with express orders not to commence
a battle.  But, in disobedience to this command, Pappenheim attacked the vanguard of the Swedes,
and after a brief struggle was driven to retreat.  To check the progress of the enemy, he set
fire to Podelwitz, which, however, did not prevent the two columns from advancing and forming
in order of battle.

On the right, the Swedes drew up in a double line, the infantry in the centre, divided into
such small battalions as could be easily and rapidly manoeuvred without breaking their order;
the cavalry upon their wings, divided in the same manner into small squadrons, interspersed
with bodies of musqueteers, so as both to give an appearance of greater numerical force, and
to annoy the enemy's horse.  Colonel Teufel commanded the centre, Gustavus Horn the left, while
the right was led by the king in person, opposed to Count Pappenheim.

On the left, the Saxons formed at a considerable distance from the Swedes,--by the advice of
Gustavus, which was justified by the event. The order of battle had been arranged between the
Elector and his field-marshal, and the king was content with merely signifying his approval.
He was anxious apparently to separate the Swedish prowess from that of the Saxons, and fortune
did not confound them.

The enemy was drawn up under the heights towards the west, in one immense line, long enough
to outflank the Swedish army,--the infantry being divided in large battalions, the cavalry
in equally unwieldy squadrons.  The artillery being on the heights behind, the range of its
fire was over the heads of his men.  From this position of his artillery, it was evident that
Tilly's purpose was to await rather than to attack the enemy; since this arrangement rendered
it impossible for him to do so without exposing his men to the fire of his own cannons. Tilly
himself commanded the centre, Count Furstenberg the right wing, and Pappenheim the left.  The
united troops of the Emperor and the League on this day did not amount to 34,000 or 35,000
men; the Swedes and Saxons were about the same number.  But had a million been confronted with
a million it could only have rendered the action more bloody, certainly not more important
and decisive.  For this day Gustavus had crossed the Baltic, to court danger in a distant country,
and expose his crown and life to the caprice of fortune.  The two greatest generals of the
time, both hitherto invincible, were now to be matched against each other in a contest which
both had long avoided; and on this field of battle the hitherto untarnished laurels of one
leader must droop for ever.  The two parties in Germany had beheld the approach of this day
with fear and trembling; and the whole age awaited with deep anxiety its issue, and posterity
was either to bless or deplore it for ever.

Tilly's usual intrepidity and resolution seemed to forsake him on this eventful day.  He had
formed no regular plan for giving battle to the King, and he displayed as little firmness in
avoiding it.  Contrary to his own judgment, Pappenheim had forced him to action.  Doubts which
he had never before felt, struggled in his bosom; gloomy forebodings clouded his ever-open
brow; the shade of Magdeburg seemed to hover over him.

A cannonade of two hours commenced the battle; the wind, which was from the west, blew thick
clouds of smoke and dust from the newly-ploughed and parched fields into the faces of the Swedes.
This compelled the king insensibly to wheel northwards, and the rapidity with which this movement
was executed left no time to the enemy to prevent it.

Tilly at last left his heights, and began the first attack upon the Swedes; but to avoid their
hot fire, he filed off towards the right, and fell upon the Saxons with such impetuosity that
their line was broken, and the whole army thrown into confusion.  The Elector himself retired
to Eilenburg, though a few regiments still maintained their ground upon the field, and by a
bold stand saved the honour of Saxony.  Scarcely had the confusion began ere the Croats commenced
plundering, and messengers were despatched to Munich and Vienna with the news of the victory.

Pappenheim had thrown himself with the whole force of his cavalry upon the right wing of the
Swedes, but without being able to make it waver. The king commanded here in person, and under
him General Banner.  Seven times did Pappenheim renew the attack, and seven times was he repulsed.
He fled at last with great loss, and abandoned the field to his conqueror.

In the mean time, Tilly, having routed the remainder of the Saxons, attacked with his victorious
troops the left wing of the Swedes.  To this wing the king, as soon as he perceived that the
Saxons were thrown into disorder, had, with a ready foresight, detached a reinforcement of
three regiments to cover its flank, which the flight of the Saxons had left exposed.  Gustavus
Horn, who commanded here, showed the enemy's cuirassiers a spirited resistance, which the infantry,
interspersed among the squadrons of horse, materially assisted.  The enemy were already beginning
to relax the vigour of their attack, when Gustavus Adolphus appeared to terminate the contest.
The left wing of the Imperialists had been routed; and the king's division, having no longer
any enemy to oppose, could now turn their arms wherever it would be to the most advantage.
Wheeling, therefore, with his right wing and main body to the left, he attacked the heights
on which the enemy's artillery was planted.  Gaining possession of them in a short time, he
turned upon the enemy the full fire of their own cannon.

The play of artillery upon their flank, and the terrible onslaught of the Swedes in front,
threw this hitherto invincible army into confusion. A sudden retreat was the only course left
to Tilly, but even this was to be made through the midst of the enemy.  The whole army was
in disorder, with the exception of four regiments of veteran soldiers, who never as yet had
fled from the field, and were resolved not to do so now. Closing their ranks, they broke through
the thickest of the victorious army, and gained a small thicket, where they opposed a new front
to the Swedes, and maintained their resistance till night, when their number was reduced to
six hundred men.  With them fled the wreck of Tilly's army, and the battle was decided.

Amid the dead and the wounded, Gustavus Adolphus threw himself on his knees; and the first
joy of his victory gushed forth in fervent prayer. He ordered his cavalry to pursue the enemy
as long as the darkness of the night would permit.  The pealing of the alarm-bells set the
inhabitants of all the neighbouring villages in motion, and utterly lost was the unhappy fugitive
who fell into their hands.  The king encamped with the rest of his army between the field of
battle and Leipzig, as it was impossible to attack the town the same night.  Seven thousand
of the enemy were killed in the field, and more than 5,000 either wounded or taken prisoners.
Their whole artillery and camp fell into the hands of the Swedes, and more than a hundred standards
and colours were taken. Of the Saxons about 2,000 had fallen, while the loss of the Swedes
did not exceed 700.  The rout of the Imperialists was so complete, that Tilly, on his retreat
to Halle and Halberstadt, could not rally above 600 men, or Pappenheim more than 1,400--so
rapidly was this formidable army dispersed, which so lately was the terror of Italy and Germany.

Tilly himself owed his escape merely to chance.  Exhausted by his wounds, he still refused
to surrender to a Swedish captain of horse, who summoned him to yield; but who, when he was
on the point of putting him to death, was himself stretched on the ground by a timely pistol-shot.
But more grievous than danger or wounds was the pain of surviving his reputation, and of losing
in a single day the fruits of a long life. All former victories were as nothing, since he had
failed in gaining the one that should have crowned them all.  Nothing remained of all his past
exploits, but the general execration which had followed them.  From this period, he never recovered
his cheerfulness or his good fortune.  Even his last consolation, the hope of revenge, was
denied to him, by the express command of the Emperor not to risk a decisive battle.

The disgrace of this day is to be ascribed principally to three mistakes; his planting the
cannon on the hills behind him, his afterwards abandoning these heights, and his allowing the
enemy, without opposition, to form in order of battle.  But how easily might those mistakes
have been rectified, had it not been for the cool presence of mind and superior genius of his
adversary!

Tilly fled from Halle to Halberstadt, where he scarcely allowed time for the cure of his wounds,
before he hurried towards the Weser to recruit his force by the imperial garrisons in Lower Saxony.

The Elector of Saxony had not failed, after the danger was over, to appear in Gustavus's camp.
The king thanked him for having advised a battle; and the Elector, charmed at his friendly
reception, promised him, in the first transports of joy, the Roman crown.  Gustavus set out
next day for Merseburg, leaving the Elector to recover Leipzig.  Five thousand Imperialists,
who had collected together after the defeat, and whom he met on his march, were either cut
in pieces or taken prisoners, of whom again the greater part entered into his service.  Merseburg
quickly surrendered; Halle was soon after taken, whither the Elector of Saxony, after making
himself master of Leipzig, repaired to meet the king, and to concert their future plan of operations.

The victory was gained, but only a prudent use of it could render it decisive.  The imperial
armies were totally routed, Saxony free from the enemy, and Tilly had retired into Brunswick.
To have followed him thither would have been to renew the war in Lower Saxony, which had scarcely
recovered from the ravages of the last.  It was therefore determined to carry the war into
the enemy's country, which, open and defenceless as far as Vienna, invited attack.  On their
right, they might fall upon the territories of the Roman Catholic princes, or penetrate, on
the left, into the hereditary dominions of Austria, and make the Emperor tremble in his palace.
Both plans were resolved on; and the question that now remained was to assign its respective
parts. Gustavus Adolphus, at the head of a victorious army, had little resistance to apprehend
in his progress from Leipzig to Prague, Vienna, and Presburg.  As to Bohemia, Moravia, Austria,
and Hungary, they had been stripped of their defenders, while the oppressed Protestants in
these countries were ripe for a revolt.  Ferdinand was no longer secure in his capital: Vienna,
on the first terror of surprise, would at once open its gates.  The loss of his territories
would deprive the enemy of the resources by which alone the war could be maintained; and Ferdinand
would, in all probability, gladly accede, on the hardest conditions, to a peace which would
remove a formidable enemy from the heart of his dominions.  This bold plan of operations was
flattering to a conqueror, and success perhaps might have justified it.  But Gustavus Adolphus,
as prudent as he was brave, and more a statesman than a conqueror, rejected it, because he
had a higher end in view, and would not trust the issue either to bravery or good fortune alone.

By marching towards Bohemia, Franconia and the Upper Rhine would be left to the Elector of
Saxony.  But Tilly had already begun to recruit his shattered army from the garrisons in Lower
Saxony, and was likely to be at the head of a formidable force upon the Weser, and to lose
no time in marching against the enemy.  To so experienced a general, it would not do to oppose
an Arnheim, of whose military skill the battle of Leipzig had afforded but equivocal proof;
and of what avail would be the rapid and brilliant career of the king in Bohemia and Austria,
if Tilly should recover his superiority in the Empire, animating the courage of the Roman Catholics,
and disarming, by a new series of victories, the allies and confederates of the king? What
would he gain by expelling the Emperor from his hereditary dominions, if Tilly succeeded in
conquering for that Emperor the rest of Germany? Could he hope to reduce the Emperor more than
had been done, twelve years before, by the insurrection of Bohemia, which had failed to shake
the firmness or exhaust the resources of that prince, and from which he had risen more formidable
than ever?

