We arrived in Paris on the 1st of January at nine o'clock in the evening; and as the theater
of the palace of the Tuileries was now completed, on the Sunday following his Majesty's return
the Griselda of M. Paer was presented in this magnificent hall.  Their Majesties' boxes were
situated in front of the curtain, opposite each other, and presented a charming picture, with
their hangings of crimson silk draped above, and forming a background to broad, movable mirrors,
which reflected at will the audience or the play.  The Emperor, still impressed with the recollections
of the theaters of Italy, criticised unsparingly that of the Tuileries, saying that it was
inconvenient, badly planned, and much too large for a palace theater; but notwithstanding all
these criticisms, when the day of inauguration came, and the Emperor was convinced of the very
great ingenuity M. Fontaine had shown in distributing the boxes so as to make the splendid
toilets appear to the utmost advantage, he appeared well satisfied, and charged the Duke of
Frioul to present to M. Fontaine the congratulations he so well deserved.

A week after we saw the reverse of the medal.  On that day Cinna was presented, and a comedy,
the name of which I have forgotten.  It was such extremely cold weather that we were obliged
to leave the theater immediately after the tragedy, in consequence of which the Emperor exhausted
himself in invectives against the hall, which according to him was good for nothing but to
be burnt.  M. Fontaine [Born at Pontoise, 1762; erected the arch of the Carrousel; died 1853]
was summoned, and promised to do everything in his power to remedy the inconveniences pointed
out to him; and in fact, by means of new furnaces placed under the theater, with pipes through
the ceiling, and steps placed under the benches of the second tier of boxes, in a week the
hall was made warm and comfortable.

For several weeks the Emperor occupied himself almost exclusively with buildings and improvements.
The arch of triumph of the Place du Carrousel, from which the scaffolding had been removed
in order to allow the Imperial Guard to pass beneath it on their return from Prussia, first
attracted his Majesty's attention.  This monument was then almost completed, with the exception
of a few bas-reliefs which were still to be put in position.  The Emperor took a critical view
of it from one of the palace windows, and said, after knitting his brows two or three times,
that this mass resembled much more a pavilion than a gate, and that he would have much preferred
one constructed in the style of the porte Saint-Denis.

After visiting in detail the various works begun or carried on since his departure, his Majesty
one morning sent for M. Fontaine, and having discoursed at length on what he thought worthy
of praise or blame in all that he had seen, informed him of his intentions with regard to the
plans which the architect had furnished for joining the Tuileries to the Louvre.  It was agreed
by the Emperor and M. Fontaine that these buildings should be united by two wings, the first
of which should be finished in five years, a million to be granted each year for this purpose;
and that a second wing should also be constructed on the opposite side, extending from the
Louvre to the Tuileries, forming thus a perfect square, in the midst of which would be erected
an opera house, isolated on all sides, and communicating with the palace by a subterranean gallery.

The gallery forming the court in front of the Louvre was to be opened to the public in winter,
and decorated with statues, and also with all the shrubbery now in boxes in the garden of the
Tuileries; and in this court he intended to erect an arch of triumph very similar to that of
the Carrousel.  Finally, all these beautiful buildings were to be used as lodgings for the
grand officers of the crown, as stables, etc.  The necessary expense was estimated as approximating
forty-two millions.

The Emperor was occupied in succession with a palace of arts; with a new building for the Imperial
library, to be placed on the spot now occupied by the Bourse; with a palace for the stock-exchange
on the quay Desaix; with the restoration of the Sorbonne and the hotel Soubise; with a triumphal
column at Neuilly; with a fountain on the Place Louis XV.; with tearing down the Hotel-Dieu
to enlarge and beautify the Cathedral quarter; and with the construction of four hospitals
at Mont-Parnasse, at Chaillot, at Montmartre, and in the Faubourg Saint-Antoine, etc.  All
these plans were very grand; and there is no doubt that he who had conceived them would have
executed them; and it has often been said that had he lived, Paris would have had no rival
in any department in the world.

At the same time his Majesty decided definitely on the form of the arch of triumph de l'Etoile,
which had been long debated, and for which all the architects of the crown had submitted plans.
It was M. Fontaine whose opinion prevailed; since among all the plans presented his was the
simplest, and at the same time the most imposing.

The Emperor was also much interested in the restoration of the palace of Versailles.  M. Fontaine
had submitted to his Majesty a plan for the first repairs, by the terms of which, for the sum
of six millions, the Emperor and Empress would have had a comfortable dwelling.  His Majesty,
who liked everything grand, handsome, superb, but at the same time economical, wrote at the
bottom of this estimate the following note, which M. de Bausset reports thus in his Memoirs:--

     "The plans in regard to Versailles must be carefully considered.
     Those which M. Fontaine submits are very reasonable, the estimate
     being six millions; but this includes dwellings, with the
     restoration of the chapel and that of the theater, only sufficiently
     comfortable for present use, not such as they should be one day.

     "By this plan, the Emperor and Empress would have their apartments;
     but we must remember that this sum should also furnish lodgings for
     princes, grand and inferior officers.

     "It is also necessary to know where will be placed the factory of
     arms, which will be needed at Versailles, since it puts silver in
     circulation.

     "It will be necessary out of these six millions to find six lodgings
     for princes, twelve for grand officers, and fifty for inferior
     officers.

     "Then only can we decide to make Versailles our residence, and pass
     the summers there.  Before adopting these plans, it will be
     necessary that the architect who engages to execute them should
     certify that they can be executed for the proposed sum."

A few days after their arrival their Majesties, the Emperor and Empress, went to visit the
celebrated David

     [Jacques Louis David, born in Paris, 1748, celebrated historical
     painter, member of convention, 1792, and voted for the death of the
     king.  Died in Brussels, 1825.]

at his studio in the Sorbonne, in order to see the magnificent picture of the coronation, which
had just been finished.  Their Majesties' suite was composed of Marshal Bessieres, an aide-de-camp
of the Emperor, M. Lebrun, several ladies of the palace, and chamberlains.  The Emperor and
Empress contemplated with admiration for a long while this beautiful painting, which comprised
every species of merit; and the painter was in his glory while hearing his Majesty name, one
by one, all the different personages of the picture, for the resemblance was really miraculous.
"How grand that is!" said the Emperor; "how fine!  how the figures are brought out in relief!
how truthful!  This is not a painting; the figures live in this picture!"  First directing
his attention to the grand tribune in the midst, the Emperor, recognized Madame his mother,
General Beaumont, M. de Cosse, M. de La Ville, Madame de Fontanges, and Madame Soult.  "I see
in the distance," said he, "good M. Vien."  M. David replied, "Yes, Sire; I wished to show
my admiration for my illustrious master by placing him in this picture, which, on account of
its subject, will be the most famous of my works."  The Empress then took part in the conversation,
and pointed out to the Emperor how happily M. David had seized upon and represented the interesting
moment when the Emperor is on the point of being crowned.  "Yes," said his Majesty, regarding
it with a pleasure that he did not seek to disguise, "the moment is well chosen, and the scene
perfectly represented; the two figures are very fine," and speaking thus, the Emperor looked
at the Empress.

His Majesty continued the examination of the picture in all its details, and praised especially
the group of the Italian clergy near the altar, which episode was invented by the painter.
He seemed to wish only that the Pope had been represented in more direct action, appearing
to give his blessing, and that the crown of the Empress had been borne by the cardinal legate.
In regard to this group, Marshal Bessieres made the Emperor laugh heartily, by relating to
him the very amusing discussion which had taken place between David and Cardinal Caprara.

It is well known that the artist had a great aversion to dressed figures, especially to those
clothed in the modern style.  In all his paintings, there may be remarked such a pronounced
love for the antique that it even shows itself in his manner of draping living persons.  Now,
Cardinal Caprara, one of the assistants of the Pope at the ceremony of the coronation, wore
a wig; and David, in giving him a place in his picture, thought it more suitable to take off
his wig, and represent him with a bald head, the likeness being otherwise perfect.  The Cardinal
was much grieved, and begged the artist to restore his wig, but received from David a formal
refusal.  "Never," said he, "will I degrade my pencil so far as to paint a wig."  His Eminence
went away very angry, and complained to M. de Talleyrand, who was at this time Minister of
Foreign Affairs, giving, among other reasons, this, which seemed to him unanswerable, that,
as no Pope had ever worn a wig, they would not fail to attribute to him, Cardinal Caprara,
an intention of aspiring to the pontifical chair in case of a vacancy, which intention would
be clearly shown by the suppression of his wig in the picture of the coronation. The entreaties
of his Eminence were all in vain; for David would not consent to restore his precious wig,
saying, that "he ought to be very glad he had taken off no more than that."

After hearing this story, the particulars of which were confirmed by the principal actor in
the scene, his Majesty made some observations to M. David, with all possible delicacy.  They
were attentively noted by this admirable artist, who, with a bow, promised the Emperor to profit
by his advice.  Their Majesties' visit was long, and lasted until the fading light warned the
Emperor that it was time to return.  M. David escorted him to the door of his studio; and there,
stopping short, the Emperor took off his hat, and, by a most graceful bow, testified to the
honor he felt for such distinguished talent.  The Empress added to the agitation by which M.
David seemed almost overcome by a few of the charming words of appreciation she so well knew
how to say, and said so opportunely.

Opposite the picture of the coronation was placed that of the Sabines. The Emperor, who perceived
how anxious M. David was to dispose of this, gave orders to M. Lebrun, as he left, to see if
this picture could not be placed to advantage in the grand gallery at the Tuileries.  But he
soon changed his mind when he reflected that most of the figures were represented in naturalibus,
which would appear incongruous in an apartment used for grand diplomatic receptions, and in
which the Council of Ministers usually sat.

CHAPTER VIII.

The last of January, Mademoiselle de Tascher, niece of her Majesty the Empress, was married
to the Duke of Aremberg.  The Emperor on this occasion raised Mademoiselle de Tascher to the
dignity of a princess, and deigned, in company with the Empress, to honor with his presence
the marriage, which took place at the residence of her Majesty the Queen of Holland, in the
Rue de Ceriltti, and was celebrated with a splendor worthy of the august guests.  The Empress
remained some time after dinner, and opened the ball with the Duke of Aremberg.  A few days
after this the Prince of Hohenzollern married the niece of the Grand Duke of Berg and Cleves,
Mademoiselle Antoinette Murat.

His Majesty honored her as he had done Mademoiselle Tascher, and, in company with the Empress,
also attended the ball which the Grand Duke of Berg gave on the occasion of this marriage,
and at which Princess Caroline presided.

This was a brilliant winter at Paris, owing to the great number of fetes and balls which were
given.  The Emperor, as I have already said, had an aversion to balls, and especially masked
balls, which he considered the most senseless things in the world, and this was a subject on
which he was often at war with the Empress; but, notwithstanding this, on one occasion he yielded
to the entreaties of M. de Marescalchi, the Italian ambassador, noted for his magnificent balls,
which the most distinguished personages of the kingdom attended.  These brilliant reunions
took place in a hall which the ambassador had built for the purpose, and decorated with extraordinary
luxury and splendor; and his Majesty, as I have said, consented to honor with his presence
a masked ball given by this ambassador, which was to eclipse all others.

