The appointed day ushered in undisturbed by any clouds; nothing disturbed Ambulinia's soft
beauty. With serenity and loveliness she obeys the request of Elfonzo. The moment the family
seated themselves at the table--"Excuse my absence for a short time," said she, "while I attend
to the placing of those flowers, which should have been done a week ago." They passed the day
in thanksgiving and great rejoicing, and on that evening they visited their uncle, where many
of their friends and acquaintances had gathered to congratulate them in the field of untainted
bliss. The kind old gentleman met them in the yard: "Well," said he, "I wish I may die, Elfonzo,
if you and Ambulinia haven't tied a knot with your tongue that you can't untie with your teeth.
But come in, come in, never mind, all is right--the world still moves on, and no one has fallen
in this great battle."

Happy now is there lot! Unmoved by misfortune, they live among the fair beauties of the South.
Heaven spreads their peace and fame upon the arch of the rainbow, and smiles propitiously at
their triumph, THROUGH THE TEARS OF THE STORM.

THE CALIFORNIAN'S TALE

Thirty-five years ago I was out prospecting on the Stanislaus, tramping all day long with pick
and pan and horn, and washing a hatful of dirt here and there, always expecting to make a rich
strike, and never doing it. It was a lovely region, woodsy, balmy, delicious, and had once
been populous, long years before, but now the people had vanished and the charming paradise
was a solitude. They went away when the surface diggings gave out. In one place, where a busy
little city with banks and newspapers and fire companies and a mayor and aldermen had been,
was nothing but a wide expanse of emerald turf, with not even the faintest sign that human
life had ever been present there. This was down toward Tuttletown. In the country neighborhood
thereabouts, along the dusty roads, one found at intervals the prettiest little cottage homes,
snug and cozy, and so cobwebbed with vines snowed thick with roses that the doors and windows
were wholly hidden from sight--sign that these were deserted homes, forsaken years ago by defeated
and disappointed families who could neither sell them nor give them away. Now and then, half
an hour apart, one came across solitary log cabins of the earliest mining days, built by the
first gold-miners, the predecessors of the cottage-builders. In some few cases these cabins
were still occupied; and when this was so, you could depend upon it that the occupant was the
very pioneer who had built the cabin; and you could depend on another thing, too--that he was
there because he had once had his opportunity to go home to the States rich, and had not done
it; had rather lost his wealth, and had then in his humiliation resolved to sever all communication
with his home relatives and friends, and be to them thenceforth as one dead. Round about California
in that day were scattered a host of these living dead men--pride-smitten poor fellows, grizzled
and old at forty, whose secret thoughts were made all of regrets and longings--regrets for
their wasted lives, and longings to be out of the struggle and done with it all.

It was a lonesome land! Not a sound in all those peaceful expanses of grass and woods but the
drowsy hum of insects; no glimpse of man or beast; nothing to keep up your spirits and make
you glad to be alive. And so, at last, in the early part of the afternoon, when I caught sight
of a human creature, I felt a most grateful uplift. This person was a man about forty-five
years old, and he was standing at the gate of one of those cozy little rose-clad cottages of
the sort already referred to. However, this one hadn't a deserted look; it had the look of
being lived in and petted and cared for and looked after; and so had its front yard, which
was a garden of flowers, abundant, gay, and flourishing. I was invited in, of course, and required
to make myself at home--it was the custom of the country.

It was delightful to be in such a place, after long weeks of daily and nightly familiarity
with miners' cabins--with all which this implies of dirt floor, never-made beds, tin plates
and cups, bacon and beans and black coffee, and nothing of ornament but war pictures from the
Eastern illustrated papers tacked to the log walls. That was all hard, cheerless, materialistic
desolation, but here was a nest which had aspects to rest the tired eye and refresh that something
in one's nature which, after long fasting, recognizes, when confronted by the belongings of
art, howsoever cheap and modest they may be, that it has unconsciously been famishing and now
has found nourishment. I could not have believed that a rag carpet could feast me so, and so
content me; or that there could be such solace to the soul in wall-paper and framed lithographs,
and bright-colored tidies and lamp-mats, and Windsor chairs, and varnished what-nots, with
sea-shells and books and china vases on them, and the score of little unclassifiable tricks
and touches that a woman's hand distributes about a home, which one sees without knowing he
sees them, yet would miss in a moment if they were taken away. The delight that was in my heart
showed in my face, and the man saw it and was pleased; saw it so plainly that he answered it
as if it had been spoken.

"All her work," he said, caressingly; "she did it all herself--every bit," and he took the
room in with a glance which was full of affectionate worship. One of those soft Japanese fabrics
with which women drape with careful negligence the upper part of a picture-frame was out of
adjustment. He noticed it, and rearranged it with cautious pains, stepping back several times
to gauge the effect before he got it to suit him. Then he gave it a light finishing pat or
two with his hand, and said: "She always does that. You can't tell just what it lacks, but
it does lack something until you've done that--you can see it yourself after it's done, but
that is all you know; you can't find out the law of it. It's like the finishing pats a mother
gives the child's hair after she's got it combed and brushed, I reckon. I've seen her fix all
these things so much that I can do them all just her way, though I don't know the law of any
of them. But she knows the law. She knows the why and the how both; but I don't know the why;
I only know the how."

He took me into a bedroom so that I might wash my hands; such a bedroom as I had not seen for
years: white counterpane, white pillows, carpeted floor, papered walls, pictures, dressing-table,
with mirror and pin-cushion and dainty toilet things; and in the corner a wash-stand, with
real china-ware bowl and pitcher, and with soap in a china dish, and on a rack more than a
dozen towels--towels too clean and white for one out of practice to use without some vague
sense of profanation. So my face spoke again, and he answered with gratified words:

"All her work; she did it all herself--every bit. Nothing here that hasn't felt the touch of
her hand. Now you would think--But I mustn't talk so much."

By this time I was wiping my hands and glancing from detail to detail of the room's belongings,
as one is apt to do when he is in a new place, where everything he sees is a comfort to his
eye and his spirit; and I became conscious, in one of those unaccountable ways, you know, that
there was something there somewhere that the man wanted me to discover for myself. I knew it
perfectly, and I knew he was trying to help me by furtive indications with his eye, so I tried
hard to get on the right track, being eager to gratify him. I failed several times, as I could
see out of the corner of my eye without being told; but at last I knew I must be looking straight
at the thing--knew it from the pleasure issuing in invisible waves from him. He broke into
a happy laugh, and rubbed his hands together, and cried out:

"That's it! You've found it. I knew you would. It's her picture."

I went to the little black-walnut bracket on the farther wall, and did find there what I had
not yet noticed--a daguerreotype-case. It contained the sweetest girlish face, and the most
beautiful, as it seemed to me, that I had ever seen. The man drank the admiration from my face,
and was fully satisfied.

"Nineteen her last birthday," he said, as he put the picture back; "and that was the day we
were married. When you see her--ah, just wait till you see her!"

"Where is she? When will she be in?"

"Oh, she's away now. She's gone to see her people. They live forty or fifty miles from here.
She's been gone two weeks today."

"When do you expect her back?"

"This is Wednesday. She'll be back Saturday, in the evening--about nine o'clock, likely."

I felt a sharp sense of disappointment.

"I'm sorry, because I'll be gone then," I said, regretfully.

"Gone? No--why should you go? Don't go. She'll be disappointed."

She would be disappointed--that beautiful creature! If she had said the words herself they
could hardly have blessed me more. I was feeling a deep, strong longing to see her--a longing
so supplicating, so insistent, that it made me afraid. I said to myself: "I will go straight
away from this place, for my peace of mind's sake."

"You see, she likes to have people come and stop with us--people who know things, and can talk--people
like you. She delights in it; for she knows--oh, she knows nearly everything herself, and can
talk, oh, like a bird--and the books she reads, why, you would be astonished. Don't go; it's
only a little while, you know, and she'll be so disappointed."

I heard the words, but hardly noticed them, I was so deep in my thinkings and strugglings.
He left me, but I didn't know. Presently he was back, with the picture case in his hand, and
he held it open before me and said:

"There, now, tell her to her face you could have stayed to see her, and you wouldn't."

That second glimpse broke down my good resolution. I would stay and take the risk. That night
we smoked the tranquil pipe, and talked till late about various things, but mainly about her;
and certainly I had had no such pleasant and restful time for many a day. The Thursday followed
and slipped comfortably away. Toward twilight a big miner from three miles away came--one of
the grizzled, stranded pioneers--and gave us warm salutation, clothed in grave and sober speech.
Then he said:

"I only just dropped over to ask about the little madam, and when is she coming home. Any news
from her?"

"Oh, yes, a letter. Would you like to hear it, Tom?"

"Well, I should think I would, if you don't mind, Henry!"

Henry got the letter out of his wallet, and said he would skip some of the private phrases,
if we were willing; then he went on and read the bulk of it--a loving, sedate, and altogether
charming and gracious piece of handiwork, with a postscript full of affectionate regards and
messages to Tom, and Joe, and Charley, and other close friends and neighbors.

As the reader finished, he glanced at Tom, and cried out:

"Oho, you're at it again! Take your hands away, and let me see your eyes. You always do that
when I read a letter from her. I will write and tell her."

"Oh no, you mustn't, Henry. I'm getting old, you know, and any little disappointment makes
me want to cry. I thought she'd be here herself, and now you've got only a letter."

"Well, now, what put that in your head? I thought everybody knew she wasn't coming till Saturday."

