We crossed the ridge of the hill into the low ground on the other side. Here were no buildings,
nothing which would interfere with the purity of a well.  My well-digger walked slowly over
the ground with his divining-rod.  Very soon he exclaimed:  "Here is water!"  And picking up
a stick, he sharpened one end of it and drove it into the ground. Then he took a string from
his pocket, and making a loop in one end, he put it over the stick.

"What are you going to do?" I asked.

"I am going to make a circle four feet in diameter," he said.  "We have to dig the well as
wide as that, you know."

"But I do not want a well here," said I.  "It's too close to the wall. I could not build a
house over it.  It would not do at all."

He stood up and looked at me.  "Well, sir," said he, "will you tell me where you would like
to have a well?"

"Yes," said I. "I would like to have it over there in the corner of the hedge.  It would be
near enough to the house; it would have a warm exposure, which will be desirable in winter;
and the little house which I intend to build over it would look better there than anywhere else."

He took his divining-rod and went to the spot I had indicated.  "Is this the place?" he asked
wishing to be sure he had understood me.

"Yes," I replied.

He put his twig in position, and in a few seconds it turned in the direction of the ground.
Then he drove down a stick, marked out a circle, and the next day he came with two men and
a derrick, and began to dig my well.

When they had gone down twenty-five feet they found water, and when they had progressed a few
feet deeper they began to be afraid of drowning.  I thought they ought to go deeper, but the
well-digger said that they could not dig without first taking out the water, and that the water
came in as fast as they bailed it out, and he asked me to put it to myself and tell him how
they could dig it deeper.  I put the question to myself, but could find no answer.  I also
laid the matter before some specialists, and it was generally agreed that if water came in
as fast as it was taken out, nothing more could be desired.  The well was, therefore, pronounced
deep enough.  It was lined with great tiles, nearly a yard in diameter, and my well-digger,
after congratulating me on finding water so easily, bade me good-by and departed with his men
and his derrick.

On the other side of the wall which bounded my grounds, and near which my well had been dug,
there ran a country lane, leading nowhere in particular, which seemed to be there for the purpose
of allowing people to pass my house, who might otherwise be obliged to stop.

Along this lane my neighbors would pass, and often strangers drove by, and as my well could
easily be seen over the low stone wall, its construction had excited a great deal of interest.
Some of the people who drove by were summer folks from the city, and I am sure, from remarks
I overheard, that it was thought a very queer thing to dig for water.  Of course they must
have known that people used to do this in the olden times, even as far back as the time of
Jacob and Rebecca, but the expressions of some of their faces indicated that they remembered
that this was the nineteenth century.

My neighbors, however, were all rural people, and much more intelligent in regard to water-supplies.
One of them, Phineas Colwell by name, took a more lively interest in my operations than did
any one else.  He was a man of about fifty years of age, who had been a soldier.  This fact
was kept alive in the minds of his associates by his dress, a part of which was always military.
If he did not wear an old fatigue-jacket with brass buttons, he wore his blue trousers, or,
perhaps, a waistcoat that belonged to his uniform, and if he wore none of these, his military
hat would appear upon his head.  I think he must also have been a sailor, judging from the
little gold rings in his ears.  But when I first knew him he was a carpenter, who did mason-work
whenever any of the neighbors had any jobs of the sort.  He also worked in gardens by the day,
and had told me that he understood the care of horses and was a very good driver.  He sometimes
worked on farms, especially at harvest-time, and I know he could paint, for he once showed
me a fence which he said he had painted.  I frequently saw him, because he always seemed to
be either going to his work or coming from it.  In fact, he appeared to consider actual labor
in the light of a bad habit which he wished to conceal, and which he was continually endeavoring
to reform.

Phineas walked along our lane at least once a day, and whenever he saw me he told me something
about the well.  He did not approve of the place I had selected for it.  If he had been digging
a well he would have put it in a very different place.  When I had talked with him for some
time and explained why I had chosen this spot, he would say that perhaps I was right, and begin
to talk of something else.  But the next time I saw him he would again assert that if he had
been digging that well he would not have put it there.

About a quarter of a mile from my house, at a turn of the lane, lived Mrs. Betty Perch.  She
was a widow with about twelve children.  A few of these were her own, and the others she had
inherited from two sisters who had married and died, and whose husbands, having proved their
disloyalty by marrying again, were not allowed by the indignant Mrs. Perch to resume possession
of their offspring.  The casual observer might have supposed the number of these children to
be very great,--fifteen or perhaps even twenty,--for if he happened to see a group of them
on the door-step, he would see a lot more if he looked into the little garden; and under some
cedar-trees at the back of the house there were always some of them on fine days.  But perhaps
they sought to increase their apparent number, and ran from one place to another to be ready
to meet observation, like the famous clown Grimaldi, who used to go through his performances
at one London theatre, and then dash off in his paint and motley to another, so that perambulating
theatre-going men might imagine that there were two greatest clowns in the world.

When Mrs. Perch had time she sewed for the neighbors, and, whether she had time or not, she
was always ready to supply them with news.  From the moment she heard I was going to dig a
well she took a vital interest in it.  Her own water-supply was unsatisfactory, as she depended
upon a little spring which sometimes dried up in summer, and should my well turn out to be
a good one, she knew I would not object to her sending the children for pails of water on occasions.

"It will be fun for them," she said, "and if your water really is good it will often come in
very well for me.  Mr. Colwell tells me," she continued, "that you put your well in the wrong
place.  He is a practical man and knows all about wells, and I do hope that for your sake he
may be wrong."

My neighbors were generally pessimists.  Country people are proverbially prudent, and pessimism
is prudence.  We feel safe when we doubt the success of another, because if he should succeed
we can say we were glad we were mistaken, and so step from a position of good judgment to one
of generous disposition without feeling that we have changed our plane of merit.  But the optimist
often gets himself into terrible scrapes, for if he is wrong he cannot say he is glad of it.

But, whatever else he may be, a pessimist is depressing, and it was, therefore, a great pleasure
to me to have a friend who was an out-and-out optimist.  In fact, he might be called a working
optimist. He lived about six miles from my house, and had a hobby, which was natural phenomena.
He was always on the lookout for that sort of thing, and when he found it he would study its
nature and effect.  He was a man in the maturity of youth, and if the estate on which he lived
had not belonged to his mother, he would have spent much time and money in investigating its
natural phenomena.  He often drove over to see me, and always told me how glad he would be
if he had an opportunity of digging a well.

"I have the wildest desire," he said, "to know what is in the earth under our place, and if
it should so happen in the course of time that the limits of earthly existence should be reached
by--I mean if the estate should come into my hands--I would go down, down, down, until I had
found out all that could be discovered.  To own a plug of earth four thousand miles long and
only to know what is on the surface of the upper end of it is unmanly.  We might as well be
grazing beasts."

He was sorry that I was digging only for water, because water is a very commonplace thing,
but he was quite sure I would get it, and when my well was finished he was one of the first
to congratulate me.

"But if I had been in your place," said he, "with full right to do as I pleased, I would not
have let those men go away.  I would have set them to work in some place where there would
be no danger of getting water,--at least, for a long time,--and then you would have found out
what are the deeper treasures of your land."

Having finished my well, I now set about getting the water into my residence near by.  I built
a house over the well and put in it a little engine, and by means of a system of pipes, like
the arteries and veins of the human body, I proposed to distribute the water to the various
desirable points in my house.

The engine was the heart, which should start the circulation, which should keep it going, and
which should send throbbing through every pipe the water which, if it were not our life, was
very necessary to it.

When all was ready we started the engine, and in a very short time we discovered that something
was wrong.  For fifteen or twenty minutes water flowed into the tank at the top of the house,
with a sound that was grander in the ears of my wife and myself than the roar of Niagara, and
then it stopped.  Investigation proved that the flow had stopped because there was no more
water in the well.

It is needless to detail the examinations, investigations, and the multitude of counsels and
opinions with which our minds were filled for the next few days.  It was plain to see that
although this well was fully able to meet the demands of a hand-pump or of bailing buckets,
the water did not flow into it as fast as it could be pumped out by an engine.  Therefore,
for the purposes of supplying the circulation of my domestic water system, the well was declared
a failure.

My non-success was much talked about in the neighborhood, and we received a great deal of sympathy
and condolence.  Phineas Colwell was not surprised at the outcome of the affair.  He had said
that the well had been put in the wrong place.  Mrs. Betty was not only surprised, but disgusted.

"It is all very well for you," she said, "who could afford to buy water if it was necessary,
but it is very different with the widow and the orphan.  If I had not supposed you were going
to have a real well, I would have had my spring cleaned out and deepened.  I could have had
it done in the early summer, but it is of no use now.  The spring has dried up."

She told a neighbor that she believed the digging of my well had dried up her spring, and that
that was the way of this world, where the widow and the orphan were sure to come out at the
little end.

Of course I did not submit to defeat--at least, not without a struggle. I had a well, and if
anything could be done to make that well supply me with water, I was going to do it.  I consulted
specialists, and, after careful consideration of the matter, they agreed that it would be unadvisable
for me to attempt to deepen my present well, as there was reason to suppose there was very
little water in the place where I had dug it, and that the very best thing I could do would
be to try a driven well.  As I had already excavated about thirty feet, that was so much gain
to me, and if I should have a six-inch pipe put into my present well and then driven down and
down until it came to a place where there was plenty of water, I would have all I wanted.

How far down the pipe would have to be driven, of course they did not know, but they all agreed
that if I drove deep enough I would get all the water I wanted.  This was the only kind of
a well, they said, which one could sink as deep as he pleased without being interfered with
by the water at the bottom.  My wife and I then considered the matter, and ultimately decided
that it would be a waste of the money which we had already spent upon the engine, the pipes,
and the little house, and, as there was nothing else to be done but to drive a well, we would
have a well driven.

Of course we were both very sorry that the work must be begun again, but I was especially dissatisfied,
for the weather was getting cold, there was already snow upon the ground, and I was told that
work could not be carried on in winter weather.  I lost no time, however, in making a contract
with a well-driver, who assured me that as soon as the working season should open, which probably
would be very early in the spring, he would come to my place and begin to drive my well.

The season did open, and so did the pea-blossoms, and the pods actually began to fill before
I saw that well-driver again.  I had had a good deal of correspondence with him in the meantime,
urging him to prompt action, but he always had some good reason for delay.  (I found out afterwards
that he was busy fulfilling a contract made before mine, in which he promised to drive a well
as soon as the season should open.)

At last--it was early in the summer--he came with his derricks, a steam-engine, a trip-hammer,
and a lot of men.  They took off the roof of my house, removed the engine, and set to work.

For many a long day, and I am sorry to say for many a longer night, that trip-hammer hammered
and banged.  On the next day after the night-work began, one of my neighbors came to me to
know what they did that for.  I told him they were anxious to get through.

"Get through what?" said he.  "The earth?  If they do that, and your six-inch pipe comes out
in a Chinaman's back yard, he will sue you for damages."

When the pipe had been driven through the soft stratum under the old well, and began to reach
firmer ground, the pounding and shaking of the earth became worse and worse.  My wife was obliged
to leave home with our child.

"If he is to do without both water and sleep," said she, "he cannot long survive."  And I agreed
with her.

She departed for a pleasant summer resort where her married sister with her child was staying,
and from week to week I received very pleasant letters from her, telling me of the charms of
the place, and dwelling particularly upon the abundance of cool spring water with which the
house was supplied.

While this terrible pounding was going on I heard various reports of its effect upon my neighbors.
One of them, an agriculturist, with whom I had always been on the best of terms, came with
a clouded brow.

"When I first felt those shakes," he said, "I thought they were the effects of seismic disturbances,
and I did not mind, but when I found it was your well I thought I ought to come over to speak
about it.  I do not object to the shaking of my barn, because my man tells me the continual
jolting is thrashing out the oats and wheat, but I do not like to have all my apples and pears
shaken off my trees.  And then," said he, "I have a late brood of chickens, and they cannot
walk, because every time they try to make a step they are jolted into the air about a foot.
And again, we have had to give up having soup.  We like soup, but we do not care to have it
spout up like a fountain whenever that hammer comes down."

I was grieved to trouble this friend, and I asked him what I should do. "Do you want me to
stop the work on the well?" said I.

"Oh, no," said he, heartily.  "Go on with the work.  You must have water, and we will try to
stand the bumping.  I dare say it is good for dyspepsia, and the cows are getting used to having
the grass jammed up against their noses.  Go ahead; we can stand it in the daytime, but if
you could stop the night-work we would be very glad.  Some people may think it a well-spring
of pleasure to be bounced out of bed, but I don't."

Mrs. Perch came to me with a face like a squeezed lemon, and asked me if I could lend her five
nails.

"What sort?" said I.

"The kind you nail clapboards on with," said she.  "There is one of them been shook entirely
off my house by your well.  I am in hopes that before the rest are all shook off I shall get
in some money that is owing me and can afford to buy nails for myself."

I stopped the night-work, but this was all I could do for these neighbors.

My optimist friend was delighted when he heard of my driven well.  He lived so far away that
he and his mother were not disturbed by the jarring of the ground.  Now he was sure that some
of the internal secrets of the earth would be laid bare, and he rode or drove over every day
to see what we were getting out of the well.  I know that he was afraid we would soon get water,
but was too kind-hearted to say so.

One day the pipe refused to go deeper.  No matter how hard it was struck, it bounced up again.
When some of the substance it had struck was brought up it looked like French chalk, and my
optimist eagerly examined it.

"A French-chalk mine," said he, "would not be a bad thing, but I hoped that you had struck
a bed of mineral gutta-percha.  That would be a grand find."

But the chalk-bed was at last passed, and we began again to bring up nothing but common earth.

"I suppose," said my optimist to me, one morning, "that you must soon come to water, and if
you do I hope it will be hot water."

"Hot water!" I exclaimed.  "I do not want that."

"Oh, yes, you would, if you had thought about it as much as I have," he replied.  "I lay awake
for hours last night, thinking what would happen if you struck hot water.  In the first place,
it would be absolutely pure, because, even if it were possible for germs and bacilli to get
down so deep, they would be boiled before you got them, and then you could cool that water
for drinking.  When fresh it would be already heated for cooking and hot baths.  And then--just
think of it!--you could introduce the hot-water system of heating into your house, and there
would be the hot water always ready.  But the great thing would be your garden.  Think of the
refuse hot water circulating in pipes up and down and under all your beds!  That garden would
bloom in the winter as others do in the summer; at least, you could begin to have Lima-beans
and tomatoes as soon as the frost was out of the air."

I laughed.  "It would take a lot of pumping," I said, "to do all that with the hot water."

"Oh, I forgot to say," he cried, with sparkling eyes, "that I do not believe you would ever
have any more pumping to do.  You have now gone down so far that I am sure whatever you find
will force itself up.  It will spout high into the air or through all your pipes, and run always."

Phineas Colwell was by when this was said, and he must have gone down to Mrs. Betty Perch's
house to talk it over with her, for in the afternoon she came to see me.

