Oxenstiern's doubts at last affected Arnheim himself, who, in full confidence in Wallenstein's
sincerity, had repaired to the chancellor at Gelnhausen, to persuade him to lend some of his
best regiments to the duke, to aid him in the execution of the plan.  They began to suspect
that the whole proposal was only a snare to disarm the allies, and to betray the flower of
their troops into the hands of the Emperor. Wallenstein's well-known character did not contradict
the suspicion, and the inconsistencies in which he afterwards involved himself, entirely destroyed
all confidence in his sincerity.  While he was endeavouring to draw the Swedes into this alliance,
and requiring the help of their best troops, he declared to Arnheim that they must begin with
expelling the Swedes from the empire; and while the Saxon officers, relying upon the security
of the truce, repaired in great numbers to his camp, he made an unsuccessful attempt to seize
them.  He was the first to break the truce, which some months afterwards he renewed, though
not without great difficulty.  All confidence in his sincerity was lost; his whole conduct
was regarded as a tissue of deceit and low cunning, devised to weaken the allies and repair
his own strength.  This indeed he actually did effect, as his own army daily augmented, while
that of the allies was reduced nearly one half by desertion and bad provisions.  But he did
not make that use of his superiority which Vienna expected.  When all men were looking for
a decisive blow to be struck, he suddenly renewed the negociations; and when the truce lulled
the allies into security, he as suddenly recommenced hostilities.  All these contradictions
arose out of the double and irreconcileable designs to ruin at once the Emperor and the Swedes,
and to conclude a separate peace with the Saxons.

Impatient at the ill success of his negociations, he at last determined to display his strength;
the more so, as the pressing distress within the empire, and the growing dissatisfaction of
the Imperial court, admitted not of his making any longer delay.  Before the last cessation
of hostilities, General Holk, from Bohemia, had attacked the circle of Meissen, laid waste
every thing on his route with fire and sword, driven the Elector into his fortresses, and taken
the town of Leipzig.  But the truce in Silesia put a period to his ravages, and the consequences
of his excesses brought him to the grave at Adorf.  As soon as hostilities were recommenced,
Wallenstein made a movement, as if he designed to penetrate through Lusatia into Saxony, and
circulated the report that Piccolomini had already invaded that country.  Arnheim immediately
broke up his camp in Silesia, to follow him, and hastened to the assistance of the Electorate.
By this means the Swedes were left exposed, who were encamped in small force under Count Thurn,
at Steinau, on the Oder, and this was exactly what Wallenstein desired.  He allowed the Saxon
general to advance sixteen miles towards Meissen, and then suddenly turning towards the Oder,
surprised the Swedish army in the most complete security.  Their cavalry were first beaten
by General Schafgotsch, who was sent against them, and the infantry completely surrounded at
Steinau by the duke's army which followed.  Wallenstein gave Count Thurn half an hour to deliberate
whether he would defend himself with 2,500 men, against more than 20,000, or surrender at discretion.
But there was no room for deliberation.  The army surrendered, and the most complete victory
was obtained without bloodshed.  Colours, baggage, and artillery all fell into the hands of
the victors, the officers were taken into custody, the privates drafted into the army of Wallenstein.
And now at last, after a banishment of fourteen years, after numberless changes of fortune,
the author of the Bohemian insurrection, and the remote origin of this destructive war, the
notorious Count Thurn, was in the power of his enemies.  With blood-thirsty impatience, the
arrival of this great criminal was looked for in Vienna, where they already anticipated the
malicious triumph of sacrificing so distinguished a victim to public justice.  But to deprive
the Jesuits of this pleasure, was a still sweeter triumph to Wallenstein, and Thurn was set
at liberty. Fortunately for him, he knew more than it was prudent to have divulged in Vienna,
and his enemies were also those of Wallenstein.  A defeat might have been forgiven in Vienna,
but this disappointment of their hopes they could not pardon.  "What should I have done with
this madman?" he writes, with a malicious sneer, to the minister who called him to account
for this unseasonable magnanimity.  "Would to Heaven the enemy had no generals but such as
he.  At the head of the Swedish army, he will render us much better service than in prison."

The victory of Steinau was followed by the capture of Liegnitz, Grossglogau, and even of Frankfort
on the Oder.  Schafgotsch, who remained in Silesia to complete the subjugation of that province,
blockaded Brieg, and threatened Breslau, though in vain, as that free town was jealous of its
privileges, and devoted to the Swedes.  Colonels Illo and Goetz were ordered by Wallenstein
to the Warta, to push forwards into Pomerania, and to the coasts of the Baltic, and actually
obtained possession of Landsberg, the key of Pomerania.  While thus the Elector of Brandenburg
and the Duke of Pomerania were made to tremble for their dominions, Wallenstein himself, with
the remainder of his army, burst suddenly into Lusatia, where he took Goerlitz by storm, and
forced Bautzen to surrender.  But his object was merely to alarm the Elector of Saxony, not
to follow up the advantages already obtained; and therefore, even with the sword in his hand,
he continued his negociations for peace with Brandenburg and Saxony, but with no better success
than before, as the inconsistencies of his conduct had destroyed all confidence in his sincerity.
He was therefore on the point of turning his whole force in earnest against the unfortunate
Saxons, and effecting his object by force of arms, when circumstances compelled him to leave
these territories.  The conquests of Duke Bernard upon the Danube, which threatened Austria
itself with immediate danger, urgently demanded his presence in Bavaria; and the expulsion
of the Saxons and Swedes from Silesia, deprived him of every pretext for longer resisting the
Imperial orders, and leaving the Elector of Bavaria without assistance.  With his main body,
therefore, he immediately set out for the Upper Palatinate, and his retreat freed Upper Saxony
for ever of this formidable enemy.

So long as was possible, he had delayed to move to the rescue of Bavaria, and on every pretext
evaded the commands of the Emperor.  He had, indeed, after reiterated remonstrances, despatched
from Bohemia a reinforcement of some regiments to Count Altringer, who was defending the Lech
and the Danube against Horn and Bernard, but under the express condition of his acting merely
on the defensive.  He referred the Emperor and the Elector, whenever they applied to him for
aid, to Altringer, who, as he publicly gave out, had received unlimited powers; secretly, however,
he tied up his hands by the strictest injunctions, and even threatened him with death, if he
exceeded his orders.  When Duke Bernard had appeared before Ratisbon, and the Emperor as well
as the Elector repeated still more urgently their demand for succour, he pretended he was about
to despatch General Gallas with a considerable army to the Danube; but this movement also was
delayed, and Ratisbon, Straubing, and Cham, as well as the bishopric of Eichstaedt, fell into
the hands of the Swedes.  When at last he could no longer neglect the orders of the Court,
he marched slowly toward the Bavarian frontier, where he invested the town of Cham, which had
been taken by the Swedes. But no sooner did he learn that on the Swedish side a diversion was
contemplated, by an inroad of the Saxons into Bohemia, than he availed himself of the report,
as a pretext for immediately retreating into that kingdom.  Every consideration, he urged,
must be postponed to the defence and preservation of the hereditary dominions of the Emperor;
and on this plea, he remained firmly fixed in Bohemia, which he guarded as if it had been his
own property.  And when the Emperor laid upon him his commands to move towards the Danube,
and prevent the Duke of Weimar from establishing himself in so dangerous a position on the
frontiers of Austria, Wallenstein thought proper to conclude the campaign a second time, and
quartered his troops for the winter in this exhausted kingdom.

Such continued insolence and unexampled contempt of the Imperial orders, as well as obvious
neglect of the common cause, joined to his equivocal behaviour towards the enemy, tended at
last to convince the Emperor of the truth of those unfavourable reports with regard to the
Duke, which were current through Germany.  The latter had, for a long time, succeeded in glozing
over his criminal correspondence with the enemy, and persuading the Emperor, still prepossessed
in his favour, that the sole object of his secret conferences was to obtain peace for Germany.
But impenetrable as he himself believed his proceedings to be, in the course of his conduct,
enough transpired to justify the insinuations with which his rivals incessantly loaded the
ear of the Emperor.  In order to satisfy himself of the truth or falsehood of these rumours,
Ferdinand had already, at different times, sent spies into Wallenstein's camp; but as the Duke
took the precaution never to commit anything to writing, they returned with nothing but conjectures.
But when, at last, those ministers who formerly had been his champions at the court, in consequence
of their estates not being exempted by Wallenstein from the general exactions, joined his enemies;
when the Elector of Bavaria threatened, in case of Wallenstein being any longer retained in
the supreme command, to unite with the Swedes; when the Spanish ambassador insisted on his
dismissal, and threatened, in case of refusal, to withdraw the subsidies furnished by his Crown,
the Emperor found himself a second time compelled to deprive him of the command.

The Emperor's authoritative and direct interference with the army, soon convinced the Duke
that the compact with himself was regarded as at an end, and that his dismissal was inevitable.
One of his inferior generals in Austria, whom he had forbidden, under pain of death, to obey
the orders of the court, received the positive commands of the Emperor to join the Elector
of Bavaria; and Wallenstein himself was imperiously ordered to send some regiments to reinforce
the army of the Cardinal Infante, who was on his march from Italy.  All these measures convinced
him that the plan was finally arranged to disarm him by degrees, and at once, when he was weak
and defenceless, to complete his ruin.

In self-defence, must he now hasten to carry into execution the plans which he had originally
formed only with the view to aggrandizement.  He had delayed too long, either because the favourable
configuration of the stars had not yet presented itself, or, as he used to say, to check the
impatience of his friends, because THE TIME WAS NOT YET COME.  The time, even now, was not
come:  but the pressure of circumstances no longer allowed him to await the favour of the stars.
The first step was to assure himself of the sentiments of his principal officers, and then
to try the attachment of the army, which he had so long confidently reckoned on.  Three of
them, Colonels Kinsky, Terzky, and Illo, had long been in his secrets, and the two first were
further united to his interests by the ties of relationship.  The same wild ambition, the same
bitter hatred of the government, and the hope of enormous rewards, bound them in the closest
manner to Wallenstein, who, to increase the number of his adherents, could stoop to the lowest
means.  He had once advised Colonel Illo to solicit, in Vienna, the title of Count, and had
promised to back his application with his powerful mediation.  But he secretly wrote to the
ministry, advising them to refuse his request, as to grant it would give rise to similar demands
from others, whose services and claims were equal to his.  On Illo's return to the camp, Wallenstein
immediately demanded to know the success of his mission; and when informed by Illo of its failure,
he broke out into the bitterest complaints against the court.  "Thus," said he, "are our faithful
services rewarded.  My recommendation is disregarded, and your merit denied so trifling a reward!
Who would any longer devote his services to so ungrateful a master?  No, for my part, I am
henceforth the determined foe of Austria."  Illo agreed with him, and a close alliance was
cemented between them.

But what was known to these three confidants of the duke, was long an impenetrable secret to
the rest; and the confidence with which Wallenstein spoke of the devotion of his officers,
was founded merely on the favours he had lavished on them, and on their known dissatisfaction
with the Court.  But this vague presumption must be converted into certainty, before he could
venture to lay aside the mask, or take any open step against the Emperor.  Count Piccolomini,
who had distinguished himself by his unparalleled bravery at Lutzen, was the first whose fidelity
he put to the proof.  He had, he thought, gained the attachment of this general by large presents,
and preferred him to all others, because born under the same constellations with himself. 
He disclosed to him, that, in consequence of the Emperor's ingratitude, and the near approach
of his own danger, he had irrevocably determined entirely to abandon the party of Austria,
to join the enemy with the best part of his army, and to make war upon the House of Austria,
on all sides of its dominions, till he had wholly extirpated it.  In the execution of this
plan, he principally reckoned on the services of Piccolomini, and had beforehand promised him
the greatest rewards.  When the latter, to conceal his amazement at this extraordinary communication,
spoke of the dangers and obstacles which would oppose so hazardous an enterprise, Wallenstein
ridiculed his fears.  "In such enterprises," he maintained, "nothing was difficult but the
commencement.  The stars were propitious to him, the opportunity the best that could be wished
for, and something must always be trusted to fortune.  His resolution was taken, and if it
could not be otherwise, he would encounter the hazard at the head of a thousand horse."  Piccolomini
was careful not to excite Wallenstein's suspicions by longer opposition, and yielded apparently
to the force of his reasoning.  Such was the infatuation of the Duke, that notwithstanding
the warnings of Count Terzky, he never doubted the sincerity of this man, who lost not a moment
in communicating to the court at Vienna this important conversation.

Preparatory to taking the last decisive step, he, in January 1634, called a meeting of all
the commanders of the army at Pilsen, whither he had marched after his retreat from Bavaria.
The Emperor's recent orders to spare his hereditary dominions from winter quarterings, to recover
Ratisbon in the middle of winter, and to reduce the army by a detachment of six thousand horse
to the Cardinal Infante, were matters sufficiently grave to be laid before a council of war;
and this plausible pretext served to conceal from the curious the real object of the meeting.
Sweden and Saxony received invitations to be present, in order to treat with the Duke of Friedland
for a peace; to the leaders of more distant armies, written communications were made.  Of the
commanders thus summoned, twenty appeared; but three most influential, Gallas, Colloredo, and
Altringer, were absent.  The Duke reiterated his summons to them, and in the mean time, in
expectation of their speedy arrival, proceeded to execute his designs.

It was no light task that he had to perform:  a nobleman, proud, brave, and jealous of his
honour, was to declare himself capable of the basest treachery, in the very presence of those
who had been accustomed to regard him as the representative of majesty, the judge of their
actions, and the supporter of their laws, and to show himself suddenly as a traitor, a cheat,
and a rebel.  It was no easy task, either, to shake to its foundations a legitimate sovereignty,
strengthened by time and consecrated by laws and religion; to dissolve all the charms of the
senses and the imagination, those formidable guardians of an established throne, and to attempt
forcibly to uproot those invincible feelings of duty, which plead so loudly and so powerfully
in the breast of the subject, in favour of his sovereign.  But, blinded by the splendour of
a crown, Wallenstein observed not the precipice that yawned beneath his feet; and in full reliance
on his own strength, the common case with energetic and daring minds, he stopped not to consider
the magnitude and the number of the difficulties that opposed him.  Wallenstein saw nothing
but an army, partly indifferent and partly exasperated against the court, accustomed, with
a blind submission, to do homage to his great name, to bow to him as their legislator and judge,
and with trembling reverence to follow his orders as the decrees of fate.  In the extravagant
flatteries which were paid to his omnipotence, in the bold abuse of the court government, in
which a lawless soldiery indulged, and which the wild licence of the camp excused, he thought
he read the sentiments of the army; and the boldness with which they were ready to censure
the monarch's measures, passed with him for a readiness to renounce their allegiance to a sovereign
so little respected.  But that which he had regarded as the lightest matter, proved the most
formidable obstacle with which he had to contend; the soldiers' feelings of allegiance were
the rock on which his hopes were wrecked.  Deceived by the profound respect in which he was
held by these lawless bands, he ascribed the whole to his own personal greatness, without distinguishing
how much he owed to himself, and how much to the dignity with which he was invested.  All trembled
before him, while he exercised a legitimate authority, while obedience to him was a duty, and
while his consequence was supported by the majesty of the sovereign.  Greatness, in and of
itself, may excite terror and admiration; but legitimate greatness alone can inspire reverence
and submission; and of this decisive advantage he deprived himself, the instant he avowed himself
a traitor.

Field-Marshal Illo undertook to learn the sentiments of the officers, and to prepare them for
the step which was expected of them.  He began by laying before them the new orders of the
court to the general and the army; and by the obnoxious turn he skilfully gave to them, he
found it easy to excite the indignation of the assembly.  After this well chosen introduction,
he expatiated with much eloquence upon the merits of the army and the general, and the ingratitude
with which the Emperor was accustomed to requite them.  "Spanish influence," he maintained,
"governed the court; the ministry were in the pay of Spain; the Duke of Friedland alone had
hitherto opposed this tyranny, and had thus drawn down upon himself the deadly enmity of the
Spaniards.  To remove him from the command, or to make away with him entirely," he continued,
"had long been the end of their desires; and, until they could succeed in one or other, they
endeavoured to abridge his power in the field.  The command was to be placed in the hands of
the King of Hungary, for no other reason than the better to promote the Spanish power in Germany;
because this prince, as the ready instrument of foreign counsels, might be led at pleasure.
It was merely with the view of weakening the army, that the six thousand troops were required
for the Cardinal Infante; it was solely for the purpose of harassing it by a winter campaign,
that they were now called on, in this inhospitable season, to undertake the recovery of Ratisbon.
The means of subsistence were everywhere rendered difficult, while the Jesuits and the ministry
enriched themselves with the sweat of the provinces, and squandered the money intended for
the pay of the troops.  The general, abandoned by the court, acknowledges his inability to
keep his engagements to the army.  For all the services which, for two and twenty years, he
had rendered the House of Austria; for all the difficulties with which he had struggled; for
all the treasures of his own, which he had expended in the imperial service, a second disgraceful
dismissal awaited him.  But he was resolved the matter should not come to this; he was determined
voluntarily to resign the command, before it should be wrested from his hands; and this," continued
the orator, "is what, through me, he now makes known to his officers.  It was now for them
to say whether it would be advisable to lose such a general.  Let each consider who was to
refund him the sums he had expended in the Emperor's service, and where he was now to reap
the reward of their bravery, when he who was their evidence removed from the scene."

A universal cry, that they would not allow their general to be taken from them, interrupted
the speaker.  Four of the principal officers were deputed to lay before him the wish of the
assembly, and earnestly to request that he would not leave the army.  The duke made a show
of resistance, and only yielded after the second deputation.  This concession on his side,
seemed to demand a return on theirs; as he engaged not to quit the service without the knowledge
and consent of the generals, he required of them, on the other hand, a written promise to truly
and firmly adhere to him, neither to separate nor to allow themselves to be separated from
him, and to shed their last drop of blood in his defence.  Whoever should break this covenant,
was to be regarded as a perfidious traitor, and treated by the rest as a common enemy.  The
express condition which was added, "AS LONG AS WALLENSTEIN SHALL EMPLOY THE ARMY IN THE EMPEROR'S
SERVICE," seemed to exclude all misconception, and none of the assembled generals hesitated
at once to accede to a demand, apparently so innocent and so reasonable.

This document was publicly read before an entertainment, which Field-Marshal Illo had expressly
prepared for the purpose; it was to be signed, after they rose from table.  The host did his
utmost to stupify his guests by strong potations; and it was not until he saw them affected
with the wine, that he produced the paper for signature.  Most of them wrote their names, without
knowing what they were subscribing; a few only, more curious or more distrustful, read the
paper over again, and discovered with astonishment that the clause "as long as Wallenstein
shall employ the army for the Emperor's service" was omitted.  Illo had, in fact, artfully
contrived to substitute for the first another copy, in which these words were wanting.  The
trick was manifest, and many refused now to sign.  Piccolomini, who had seen through the whole
cheat, and had been present at this scene merely with the view of giving information of the
whole to the court, forgot himself so far in his cups as to drink the Emperor's health.  But
Count Terzky now rose, and declared that all were perjured villains who should recede from
their engagement.  His menaces, the idea of the inevitable danger to which they who resisted
any longer would be exposed, the example of the rest, and Illo's rhetoric, at last overcame
their scruples; and the paper was signed by all without exception.

Wallenstein had now effected his purpose; but the unexpected resistance he had met with from
the commanders roused him at last from the fond illusions in which he had hitherto indulged.
Besides, most of the names were scrawled so illegibly, that some deceit was evidently intended.
But instead of being recalled to his discretion by this warning, he gave vent to his injured
pride in undignified complaints and reproaches.  He assembled the generals the next day, and
undertook personally to confirm the whole tenor of the agreement which Illo had submitted to
them the day before.  After pouring out the bitterest reproaches and abuse against the court,
he reminded them of their opposition to the proposition of the previous day, and declared that
this circumstance had induced him to retract his own promise.  The generals withdrew in silence
and confusion; but after a short consultation in the antichamber, they returned to apologize
for their late conduct, and offered to sign the paper anew.

Nothing now remained, but to obtain a similar assurance from the absent generals, or, on their
refusal, to seize their persons.  Wallenstein renewed his invitation to them, and earnestly
urged them to hasten their arrival.  But a rumour of the doings at Pilsen reached them on their
journey, and suddenly stopped their further progress.  Altringer, on pretence of sickness,
remained in the strong fortress of Frauenberg. Gallas made his appearance, but merely with
the design of better qualifying himself as an eyewitness, to keep the Emperor informed of all
Wallenstein's proceedings.  The intelligence which he and Piccolomini gave, at once converted
the suspicions of the court into an alarming certainty.  Similar disclosures, which were at
the same time made from other quarters, left no room for farther doubt; and the sudden change
of the commanders in Austria and Silesia, appeared to be the prelude to some important enterprise.
The danger was pressing, and the remedy must be speedy, but the court was unwilling to proceed
at once to the execution of the sentence, till the regular forms of justice were complied with.
Secret instructions were therefore issued to the principal officers, on whose fidelity reliance
could be placed, to seize the persons of the Duke of Friedland and of his two associates, Illo
and Terzky, and keep them in close confinement, till they should have an opportunity of being
heard, and of answering for their conduct; but if this could not be accomplished quietly, the
public danger required that they should be taken dead or live.  At the same time, General Gallas
received a patent commission, by which these orders of the Emperor were made known to the colonels
and officers, and the army was released from its obedience to the traitor, and placed under
Lieutenant-General Gallas, till a new generalissimo could be appointed.  In order to bring
back the seduced and deluded to their duty, and not to drive the guilty to despair, a general
amnesty was proclaimed, in regard to all offences against the imperial majesty committed at Pilsen.

