THE SUBSTANCE OF A DREAM

Translated from the Original Manuscript

by

F. W. BAIN

                 Mix, with sunset's fleeting glow,
                 Kiss of friend, and stab of foe,
                 Ooze of moon, and foam of brine,
                 Noose of Thug, and creeper's twine,
                 Hottest flame, and coldest ash,
                 Priceless gems, and poorest trash;
                 Throw away the solid part,
                 And behold--a woman's heart.

                                       NIDRÁDARPANA

Methuen & Co. Ltd. 36 Essex Street W.C. London Second Edition First Published . October 16th
1919 Second Edition ... 1919

DEDICATED

to

THE INEXPRESSIBLY GENTLE GENIUS

of

MY OWN MOTHER

INTRODUCTION

I could almost persuade myself, that others will like this little fable as much as I do: so
curiously simple, and yet so strangely profound is its delicate epitome of the old old story,
the course of true love, which never did run smooth.

And since so many people have asked me questions as to the origin of these stories, I will
say a word on the point here. Where do they come from? I do not know. I discovered only the
other day that some believe them to have been written by a woman. That appears to me to be
improbable. But who writes them? I cannot tell. They come to me, one by one, suddenly, like
a flash of lightning, all together: I see them in the air before me, like a little Bayeux tapestry,
complete, from end to end, and write them down, hardly lifting the pen from the paper, straight
off "from the MS." I never know, the day before, when one is coming: it arrives, as if shot
out of a pistol. Who can tell? They may be all but so many reminiscences of a former birth.

The Substance of a Dream is half a love-story, and half a fairy tale: as indeed every love-story
is a fairy tale. Because, although that unaccountable mystery, the mutual attraction of the
sexes, is the very essence of life, and everything else merely accidental or accessory, yet
only too often in the jostle of the world, in the trough and tossing of the waves of time,
the accidental smothers the essential, and life turns into a commonplace instead of a romance.
And so, like every other story, this little story will perhaps be very differently judged,
according to the reader's sex. The bearded critic will see it with eyes very different from
those with which it may be viewed by the fair voter with no beard upon her chin; for women,
as the great god says at the end, have scant mercy on their own sex, and the heroine of the
story is a strange heroine, an enigmatical Mona Lisa, so to say, who will not appeal to everybody
so strongly as she does to the Moony-crested Deity, when he sums her up at the close. I venture,
with humility, to concur in the opinion of the Deity, for she holds me under the same spell
as her innumerable other lovers. The reader, a more formidable authority even than the god,
must decide: only I must warn him that to understand, he must go to the very end. He will not
think his time wasted, if he take half the delight in reading, as I did, in transcribing, the
evidence in the case. Only, moreover, when he closes the book will he appreciate the mingled
exactitude and beauty of its name: for no story ever had a name which fitted it with such curious
precision as this one. For the essence of a dream is always that along with its weird beauty,
it counters expectation, often in such queer, ludicrous, kaleidoscopic ways. So it is, here.

       *       *       *       *       *

Many bitter things, since the beginning, have men said of women, though neither so many nor
so bitter, as the witty Frenchman cynically remarks, as the things women have said of one another.
Poor Eve has paid very dear for that apple: the only wonder is, that she was not made responsible
also for the Flood: but we have not got the whole of that story: Noah's wife may have dropped
some incriminating documents into the water, for the Higher Criticism to unearth by and by:
the Eternal Feminine may have had a hand in it after all, as she is generally to be found somewhere
behind the scenes, wherever mischief brews for mortal man. She comes down the ages, loaded
with accusations; and yet, somehow or other, they do not seem to have done her much harm. And
the reason is, that she possesses, in supreme perfection, the art of disarming her antagonist,
having been very cunningly constructed by the Creator for that very purpose: she is like a
cork; she will not drown, under any flood of charges: she floats, quand même: (two words that
she might very well take, like the inimitable Sarah, for her motto:) so that, be as angry as
you please with her, you generally find yourself not only unable to condemn her, but even ready
to beg her pardon, and rather glad, on the whole, to get it. It is a hopeless case. And all
the more, because no woman ever lived, bad or good, who could be got to understand what is
meant by "playing cricket": you cannot make her keep the rules in any game: she plays to win,
like a German, and invariably cheats, if she can: international law counts, only as long as
it is for and not against her: if you find her out, and scold her, she pouts, and will not
play. And then, if, as is commonly the situation, you want her to play, very badly, what are
you to do? Yes, it is a hopeless case.

       *       *       *       *       *

And yet, if we look into the matter with that stern impartiality which its public importance
demands, we may perceive, that though there is, it must be candidly owned, an element of truth
in the charges brought against her, they are founded, for all that, largely on misunderstanding.
It is man himself, her accuser, who is very nearly always to blame. His intelligence as compared
with her own, is clumsy: (it is the difference between the dog and the cat:) he does not realise
the unfathomable gulf that divides her nature from his own, and for lack of imaginative tact,
judging her by himself, he enormously overestimates the part played by reason in her behaviour.
Hence when, as she is always doing, she lets him down, he breaks out, (obtusely) into denunciation
and reproach, taking it for granted, that what she did, she did, deliberately. But that is
his mistake. Women never act by deliberation, least of all in their relations with men. Reason
has hardly anything to do with it. A woman is a weapon, designed by the Creator, who generally
knows what he is doing, to fascinate the other sex: that is her essence and her raison d'être:
the woman who does not do it is a failure, and she is Nature's triumph and entelechy, who does
it best. 

The former province of vast proportions that had the name of Guyenne in the division French
policy, before the Revolution of 1789, had focused on large capital or to Bordeaux, but was divided
into small provinces whose names have disappeared from the official language. Of all the Guyenne
have come, in whole or in part, called the twelve départements: Ariege, Aveyron, Haut-Garonne,
Lot, Hautes Pyrénées, Basses-Pyrenees, Gironde, Landes, Lot, Lot-et-Garonne, Gers and Tarn-et-Garonne.
The region between the Bidasoa and Bayonne or the Adour, Gascony itself was so famous in France
for the bluff and cunning of its inhabitants, whose type Dumas and Maquet have embodied in his
famous D'Artagnan of Three Musketeers.

This region, like all nations bordering between different races, is very curious the mixture
of Spanish and French types, manifested in language, customs and other characters social. Thus, while
Bayona is a mixed city, where they speak simultaneously two languages ​​and is the remarkable
fusion of the two peoples, the country from the Adour and Bidasoa offered throughout, but especially
in popular language, a mixture of Spanish, French and Basque, which is a very curious patois denaturing
three languages ​​and is not easily understandable but for those who are least familiar two of
them.

Bayonne is one of the most beautiful cities in France, both for the interest that occurs social
promiscuity, for the beautiful groves of their surroundings, his situation between two rivers
(the Adour and the Niva) which have their confluence here, and give mixed aspect its fortifications,
its highly commercial nature of space and its modern and elegant buildings contrasting with some old
and its Gothic cathedral. The Niva divides the city into two parts, and also relies setentrional
on the left bank of the Adour river considerable notable and navigation. At the same time delay to the
right bank of the river's people Holy Spirit (about 6.800 inhabitants) that if Bayonne is part
of the point of view commercial and social, political belongs to Landes, separated by Adour
river of the Lower Pyrenees.

Bayonne (which has about 15,000 people) is the second center of population of the Netherlands-Pyrenees
since Pau, the capital, numbers about 16.500 inhabitants. As shown, Bayona is socially more than
21,000 souls, so that its commercial and industrial activity is very significant. It is mostly
a port of call or deposit for trade between France and Spain, both more crowded as it is paid
to speculations of smuggling. It is in that city begins extensive French railway network to the
east and north, and its importance will be much more when it completes construction of railways
and communicate to Bordeaux and Bayonne to Madrid by the provinces of Castilla, Navarra and
Aragon.

In Bayonne the passenger does not feel any artistic curiosity. This city, famous for the events
of Carlos IV and Napoleon in 1808, so fertile in huge results, do not call attention to any artistic
delicacy, but for their welfare and elegant appearance, vitality commercial and social fusion.
The splendid malls and villas and parks that surround it and are picturesque, the active movement
of people in the streets, docks and walkways and in the beautiful hotels and cafes full of travelers
(business or walkers), the number of steamers chimneys stand out among a multitude of sailing
vessels to berth the springs of the two rivers, the activity of the factories in the districts
less elegant, the mixture of languages ​​through all the conversations, the appearance of public
buildings and houses modern, nice simplicity attached to the picturesque; and the incessant crossing
of the steps to come and go every time, direction Spain, Pau, Biarritz, etc., form a social
group that gives the type of Bayonne City no less funny and enjoyable as residence, interesting
from the point of view international economy.

Many countries in Europe and America are represented in Bayonne by vice-consuls or agents trade,
and the city is not only a center of imports and exports considerable but also the most valuable
industrial production in the department of the Basses-Pyrenees adjacent. The proximity of the
sea (6 km) gives the condition of port, to likeness of Bilbao, and therefore the advantage
of maintaining its vast rivers yards where boats are built and assembled vessels fishing for
cod. The main Indian exports of production consist of wines, spirits, turpentine, lumber (fir
and pine), leather, cork and the famous "hams of Bayonne."

Of the 1.282 miles of road that mediate between Paris and Madrid, 780 distances measured Madrid
to Bayonne, in 1859 he traveled by stagecoach. Faltábame a journey by rail of 502 kilometers,
from Bayonne to Paris. From the right bank of the Adour to the left the Garonne (Bordeaux) the direct
via touch in twenty-three stations away from Mont-de-Marsan (Capital of the Landes, with about 5,000
inhabitants), and across a region full of melancholy and in some parts of desolation. Ocean
is a forest of pine and spruce growing on sandy soil and usually sterile. Abound in the marshes,
where near the ocean and rivers, and with these insects, fevers and the thorns and weeds rough
to vegetate forever in the swamp. The French government has undertaken extensive there clearing work
and desiccation, not later than that sad country will make a safe area, fertile and prosperous.
Today only takes advantage of its vast land with the exploitation of forests firs and pines, which
are obtained strong values ​​in wood, tar and turpentine. On the outskirts of Bordeaux on the
landscape is beautiful and the vast horizon, the valley of the Garonne appears in all its
splendor of culture, showing the plantation next to snuff grain and vast vineyards, which give
them such universal importance to the department the Gironde and circonvecinos.

I confess that I felt deeply moved closer to the affluent, liberal
and active Bordeaux.

He remembered the story of his famous Girondins in the French Revolution, martyrs of a political
religion whose ideas, whose deeds and whose sublime sacrifice had been interested vividly my
spirit and my heart, and whose fate has always seemed to me one of the most eloquent lessons that
history can offer to the peoples and parties in agitation.

       * * * * *

The splendid city of Bordeaux, situated at 457 kilometers southwest of Paris, is bases both banks of
the beautiful river Garonne, 96 miles distant from its mouth in the Atlantic or is in the great
Bay of Biscay. The most advantageous position thanks to the easy navigation of that river (which is one
of four first-order in the interior of France) has naturally Bordeaux a privileged city, whose
river-sea situation corresponds to that which has In the lower Loire Nantes, Rouen in the
lower Seine and, to a lesser extent, in Lyon in the Rhone. Its shipping services to everyone,
and that railroads have sought towards Spain, the Mediterranean and the interior of France, have given
universal significance, in competition with Marseille, Nantes and Le Havre, Bordeaux are with
the largest ports French empire.

A very quick and succinct description of the general conditions of
this affluent metropolis trade in southwest France, will suffice to
estimate their value to those who only know universal reputation for
its wines and spirits.

Bordeaux is divided by the Garonne into two portions. The most significant, the Bordeaux itself,
the historic city, immediately to the south-eastern margin. In the opposite lies the affluent suburb
of Chartrons, may be called the huge store-cellar in Bordeaux. From the top of the city, where
the vast construction yard naval, to the bottom of the lower extremity, where is the grocery store
of marina, the river describes a five-mile arc of development, which corresponds convex side
paute to the old city. This whole trip is the port of Bordeaux, which can 1.200 contain ships of
all sizes (up to 600 tons), apart from the fleet of large ships which discharge all or part of
their cargoes at the auxiliary port of Blaye, located far below. The river is in the city the average
width of 600 meters, measuring up to 660 front Square-royal arms
at the middle of the arc.

Bordeaux, Burdigala of the Romans, is an
ancient city and even of unknown origin of interest in every respect.

Its population alone (112,000 souls) is equivalent to more than the sixth part of what makes
up the Gironde department (600,000 inhabitants), that is capital. Its great antiquity, its historical,
political and commercial, and genius liberal and progressive of its inhabitants, have provided
the conditions do make a city monumental in every way. There are meeting to the remains of Roman
works Gothic monuments, the Renaissance and the later period, and characterizing trends of the
nineteenth century.

The great Bordeaux is well divided by the vast and beautiful street-Red
Hat (Chapeau Rouge) that, based on the bank of the river, marks the
south side of the old and modern north.

That, without being disgusting like most ancient neighborhoods of generality French cities,
is much different, highlighting the splendor of the neighborhoods new. In the early portion
of the workshops are crowded, many factories, shops trading in its main body and all that means work
and occupation exclusively. In the modern portion of the splendid streets are worth or capital
rivals the best European the grand buildings, hotels seem palaces, sumptuous cafes and stores
luxury and fashion, the magnificent walks shaded by trees, fountains and elegant clean and beautiful
squares.

On the other bank of the Garonne, the district has concealed its background CHARTRONGES irregular
factories, warehouses, quarries and everything is always a suburb,
for the most beautiful and facade that can be vast.

Such is the huge row of elegant houses over three hundred that seem palaces, edging around
the boardwalk pier one on the other end of the city. These magnificent homes are the residences
of the princes of the pipes and bundles, which constitute the commercial aristocracy of Bordeaux.
Each of these buildings, which its top is home to the dealer, contains in its underground cellars
or accessory a huge reservoir of pipes of wine and spirits, the number usually reaches 1.000. Bacchus
is resigned to having their empire in the darkness underground, consoling himself with the
safety that this rule is universal.

You can ensure that, after Paris, Bordeaux is the most beautiful and splendid capital of France,
and is also one of the most beautiful in Europe.

Everything is in the bulk or the whole characters city of affluence, of the activity, good taste and
cleanliness of the Elegance in the forms of liberalism in the ideas and customs, artistic feeling
harmonizing with the spirit of speculation. Bordeaux's population has remained at all times
the traditions of the Great French Revolution, and their trends are, like the Parisians, Lyons and
Marseilles, decidedly democratic and republican. The press do Bordeaux (notably well served and
supported by more than sixteen presses) exerts a considerable influence in France, as it is possible
that the departmental review to be felt before the absorbing pressure and formidable reputation in Paris.

Rather
rare in the genre of Roman architecture and is preserved in the monumental ruins Bordeaux Palace-Ombrière
Gallienus and of calling attention and delight the outdated or archaeologists. Among the buildings
of the Middle Ages are notable: the Cathedral, a vast basilica that
if a lack of harmony in its Gothic structure (XIII century), surprised
by greatness of the central nave and the boldness of some of its forms,
the church of Santa-Cruz (the seventh century), Byzantine in origin,
but rebuilt by Charlemagne, the St. Seurin, of various styles and
very interesting.

In the modern genre (mixed and Renaissance) is remarkable the beautiful church of Our Lady (rebuilt
at the beginning of XVIII century) and in the Fuldenses draws attention the tomb of the celebrated
Montaigne.

As far as the pure Renaissance, its architecture is represented by very beautiful sights such
as the Great Theater, the Bourse, the Palais-real, Justice, Customs, the Museum and Hospital,
one of the best of its kind in Europe. Point to monuments Bridge the Garonne and the great theater
are works outstanding. The first is amazing for its size and robustness. It measures 486 meters
long and 35 latitude (13 and 1 / 2 of road and 11 and 1 / 2 of sidewalks)
and rests on seventeen huge arches and brick masonry openings which
allow movement of large ships and steamers.

It is one of the most magnificent bridges (perhaps the first of its kind) that has the French. The theater,
though less spacious than the famous Barcelona Milan and Naples, is the most beautiful of France,
on the inner and outer forms, and has few rivals in Europe.

The Museum contains an excellent library of about 120,000 volumes, a vast museum Very valuable natural
history and mineralogy collections and antiques. Gallery paintings, transferred to the Municipal
House (City Hall), is large and contains good pictures, mainly French and Flemish schools.

Besides many other important buildings, its beautiful public baths, splendid walks, its astronomical
observatory, botanical gardens and acclimatization, etc., Bordeaux
contains many excellent educational institutions and charities of
all kinds, which give the value of a European city at least second
order.

If attention is fixed purely commercial movement, the quays of the Garonne offer the greatest
interest. A huge forest of masts populates the waves of the river, Waving the flags of all
nations world trade on ships of shapes and dimensions that feed multifarious change universal.

Along the embankments on either margin remains an extraordinary movement cars and goods, and
while there, the porters swarm in incessant activity, thousands of sailors call the attention
from the river, with their schemes and developments at the top of the masts and spars. If the
vast quarries of construction (or shipyard) stirred an entire population of carpenters, manufacturers
of cables, etc., where numerous dams and extensive rest ships hull, leading to a movement no less
important. Apart of the many ships belonging to owners of Bordeaux, making foreign trade and maintain
communications and international coastal sea, constantly weapon Bordeaux
numerous expeditions for whaling and cod.

Many small Steamers navigable river up and down the Garonne in Bordeaux, while others make the
largest shipping heading to Spain and Portugal, England, Germany, etc., and a line of powerful
steamers is already ongoing relationship to Bordeaux with the main ports of Brazil and the
Republics del Plata.

The industry in Bordeaux is completely analogous to that of Marseille, with its notable addition
spinning cotton and wool, knitwear and printed calico, large foundries, etc. Apart the enormous
centralization of wines called "Bordeaux," which the whole world knows, the city ​​has large sugar
refineries and nitro, vast distillation of liquors, vinegars, smelling water, oil, etc., a
strong imperial tobacco manufacturing, large manufacturing chemicals and machinery and all that
is consequent to a major seaport. Agriculture in the Bordeaux regions (the Adour, Garonne, the Dordogne,
etc.) Is main elements of vineyards and grain, but also produces snuff (although terrible quality,
and subjected to disastrous restrictions), flax and many other items
of no small importance.

Consulates in Bordeaux reside almost all trading nations.

In closing remember these rapid indications that Bordeaux was the birthplace not only of Gensonné,
Ducos, Fonfrede and others of the famous Girondins, but other celebrities, such as the rare Montaigne,
the fruitful and a great thinker and observer Montesquieu, Ricardo II of England, the British
general as famous under the name "Prince" Black "Pope Clement V, etc. Bordeaux is also notable
for the evidence of religious tolerance contains in its synagogue and the temple of Protestants.
 For many things hold in
their heart things not to be anticipated, judging by their outside: and this lump which thou
despisest is like a coco-nut, whose coarse skin is full of nectar. But it has been shut so
long, that it would not easily be opened by anyone but me.[5] And he touched it with his foot,
saying, Open, and it opened like a shell. And he said: See! it has in it a very strange kernel,
preserved safe and sound only because all its adventures added to its case, sheath after sheath.
And all the leaves are still there, a very little mouldy, and the silk that tied them, and
the seal. And the goddess said: But what is it after all? And Maheshwara said: It is a case
of urgency, that all came to nothing in the end, being a letter that never even reached its
destination, because the sender was in so great a hurry that he defeated his own object, bidding
his messenger go so fast that in his haste his boat turned over, and he and his message were
eaten on their way by a river beast. For those who go too fast often go so slow as never to
arrive at all, as was the case here. Then said Umá: He that sent it must have been a fool.
And Maheshwara said! Nay, O Snowy One, not at all: far from it: and yet he became, as many
do, a fool for the occasion, under the influence of passion, which blinds the eyes, and shuts
up the ears, and twists the whole character awry, so that it acts in a manner contrary to itself,
as if the man had been suddenly changed into another, or his body entered by a Wetála, in the
temporary absence of his soul.

And Párwatí said: What was the passion here? And the Moony-crested god said slowly: It was
a threefold cord, and very strong: love, and love turned by intense disappointment into hatred,
and rage against a rival: each by itself alone enough to turn reason into madness. But the
whole story is told, by its hero himself, in the very letter: and if thou wilt, I will read
it aloud to thee, exactly as he wrote it, word for word. And the goddess said: Thou knowest
all: why not tell it in thy own way, without the trouble of reading? And Maheshwara said: Nay,
on the contrary, it is far better to let him tell it for himself: for who knew everything better
than he did? And moreover, every story told by a stranger is imperfect, since he is obliged
to fill up the gaps in his knowledge by imagination or conjecture: whereas, when the actor
in it all is himself the narrator, it is the very truth itself, unless he expressly desires
to conceal it, which is not the case here. For he was very anxious indeed to tell his enemy
everything, on purpose to offend him: and he only made one mistake, which I will show thee
in due time. So I will read it exactly as it stands, omitting absolutely nothing. And the Daughter
of the Snow said: Read. But she thought: If it is not worth hearing, I will simply go to sleep
as he reads. And Maheshwara said: Nay, O Snowy One, I will guarantee that thou dost not go
to sleep.

And then, the goddess suddenly threw her arms about his neck, and hid her face on his breast.
And she said: What is the use of trying to hide anything at all from thee? Read. But for all
that, I will go to sleep, if I choose. And the Moony-crested god said with a smile: Aye! but
thou wilt not choose.

And then he began to read, throwing away the leaves as they ended, one by one into the stream,
which carried them away. And the crocodiles all lay round him in a circle, worshipping their
Lord, as he read.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 2: Maheshwara is the ascetic par excellence, who punished Love for trying to tempt
him by burning him up like a moth with a fiery glance from his third eye. And yet for all that,
the Master Yogi was not always proof against feminine fascination: he might be chaste as ice,
yet he has not escaped scandal.]

[Footnote 3: Nandi is the divine Bull, on which, or whom, the Great God rides.]

[Footnote 4: Had the awful words passed her lips, Nandi was a doomed bull, as a curse once
uttered is irrevocable.]

[Footnote 5: Because he is the Lord of Creatures animate or inanimate, which all obey him.]

II

The heart of a Woman

I

As the black cobra sits up, and puffs his hood, and hisses, giving warning to his prey, ere
he strikes: so I, Shatrunjaya[6] the lute-player, son of a king, do send this my menace to
thee, Narasinha, the lover of a queen too good for so vile a thing as thou art: that none hereafter
may be able to say, I struck thee unwarned, or took thee unawares. Know, that night doth not
more surely or more swiftly follow day, than I and my vengeance will follow on the messenger
who carries this threat: whom I have bidden to reach thee with his utmost speed, so as to allay
my thirst for thy life; since every day that I wait seems to me longer than a yuga. And I will
slay thee with no other weapon than my two bare hands--

And suddenly, the great god stopped, and he laughed aloud. And he exclaimed: See now, how this
poor lute-player deceived himself! For his message not only never reached his enemy at all,
but almost as soon as it had left him, he was himself slain by the emissaries of the very man
he meant to kill, who never sent him any warning at all, but took him unawares, and slew him,
escaping by anticipation the fate that was in store for himself, without even knowing anything
of all that this letter would have taught him, and so far from dying, living to a very great
age. And this instance shows, that the most dangerous of enemies is the one that never threatens
till he actually strikes, resembling not the cobra, but the adder, as Shatrunjaya discovered
to his cost, too late.[7]

And the Daughter of the Snow exclaimed, in wrath: Why hast thou stopped, to tell me the end
of the story, before even reaching the beginning?

And Maheshwara said: Aha! Snowy One, thou art not yet, as it seems, asleep. Many are the beginnings
that never reach an end: but it will do this story no harm at all, to begin with the end, since
all the essence of it lies in the middle, and as thou wilt find, it ends in the middle, and
yet never ends, even when it is done.

What I have told thee does not matter in the least; what matters is the Queen, for she was
the most extraordinary of all women, past, present, or to come.

And Párwatí said: Let the letter speak for itself: and if thou hast anything to say, keep it
for the end. For nothing is more unendurable than a commentary upon a text which is unknown.

II

And Maheshwara said: Thus the letter continues:--for there is not room in one world for us
both. And well thou knowest the reason why. For the Queen told me, the very last time that
I saw her, that it would be the very last time, as indeed it was. And when I asked why she
would see me no more, she said, that thine was the order, to send me away. Dog! was she thine
to command, or was I? And yet, I knew very well, it was all thy doing, before ever she told
me. For never would she have behaved as she did, had she not been pushed from behind: and the
very first time that we met, when she told me of thee, I understood, and foresaw, and expected,
the very thing that has happened, looking to find thee hiding behind her, to rid thee of a
rival whom thou hadst not the courage openly to face. And dost thou dare to condemn me for
doing the very same thing thou wast doing thyself? Was not my claim to love her as good as
thy own? Or what, O cowardly dastard, does that man deserve, who screens himself behind the
clothes of a woman to strike at a foe? I will answer the question, and show thee, by ocular
proof, very soon. But now in the meantime, I will open thy eyes, and tell thee, from the very
beginning, all that took place. And thou shalt learn how I stole her away from thee, in spite
of thee, as presently I will come to rob thee also of thy life. And I will embitter thy life,
and poison it, first: and then I will take it away.

III

And yet, strange indeed was the way that I met her. I cannot tell, whether it was a reward
or a punishment for the deeds of a previous birth. For the joy of it would have been cheap,
bought at the price of a hundred lives: and yet the sorrow is greater than the joy. And it
happened thus. I was roaming through the world, with my lute for my only companion. For all
men know, as thou must also, that I turned my back upon my hereditary kingdom, and quarrelled
with all my relations, and left them, all for the sake of my lute. For ever since I was a child,
I have cared for absolutely nothing but my lute, and as I think, I must have been a Gandharwa[8]
in the birth before, since the sound of the tones of its strings, touched by the hand of a
master musician, leads me like an ox that is pulled by a cord, the very moment I hear it, and
I stand still, like one that listens with tears in his eyes to the memory of the voice of a
friend that is dead. Ha! very wonderful are the influences of a forgotten birth! For I was
an anomaly, behaving not according to my caste, which was that of a Rajpoot; and not music,
but fighting, was my proper work, and my religion.[9] And it was as if my mother had been caught
sleeping in the moonlight on the terrace of the palace in the hot season by some king of the
Widyádharas passing by, and looking down from the air. For heavenly beings often fall into
such temptations, and even an ascetic would have found it hard to laugh at the arrows of Manobhawa,
coming in the form of such a feminine fascination as hers, lying still in the lunar ooze at
midnight, with her head pillowed on her arm. And yet, for all my music, I was the tallest and
strongest of all my clan, and a hunter, when I chose, that could bear fatigue even better than
a Bhíl.

And then at last there came a day when the King my father sent for me. And when I came, he
looked at me with approval, and he said: Thou art a man at last. And yet they tell me, thou
dost nothing all day long but sit playing thy lute. Canst thou really be my son, or art thou
some musician's brat, foisted into my son's place by some dark underhand intrigue, when I was
looking the other way? For who ever heard of a Yuwarájá,[10] destined to sit upon the throne
when I have entered the fire, neglecting all his duties for the sake of a lute's strings? Come
now, throw thy lute away, and leave music to the professionals who have nothing else to do,
and apply thyself to policy, and the things of a king's trade. And I said: What do I care for
a kingdom in comparison with my lute? I will not throw it away, no, not for a hundred kingdoms.
I am a devotee of Rádhá's lover,[11] and I care nothing for any ráj. Then my father flew into
a rage. And he said: Thou shalt do, not as thou wilt, but as I will. Choose, between thy wretched
lute, and the ráj: and if thou dost not obey, I will turn thee off, and put thy younger brother
in thy place. And I said: There are kings in abundance everywhere, but those who can really
play on a lute are very few indeed. And I am one. Let who will be a Yuwarájá: I will choose
the lute. And he said, in wrath: Be off! and play dirges to the memory of thy dead succession,
for thou art no longer heir. And I laughed in his face, and went away, and got on my horse,
and turned my back upon it all, and rode off laughing with my lute hanging round my neck, counting
the kingdom as a straw. And thereafter, I wandered up and down, from place to place, living
as I pleased, and utterly disregarding the messages that reached me nearly every day from my
mother, who sent me bags of money and entreaties to return, all in vain. And my story, like
my playing, went from mouth to mouth, and everywhere I went, the people said: Ha! there goes
Shatrunjaya, the mad musician, who cares more for a discord than the loss of his hereditary
ráj! Ha! and if his policy were only equal to his playing, what a king he would have made!
And what a fool he must be, to care for nothing in the three worlds but a lute's strings!

IV

And yet they were all wrong. For there was another thing that nobody knew anything about, that
I cared for even more than for my lute. And all the while I wandered, I was looking for a thing
that flew before me the more I kept pursuing it, like the setting of the sun. And yet it hung,
so to say, always just before my eyes, like a picture on the wall, so that often I used to
talk to it, as if it were alive, as I sat. And yet it never answered, looking back at me in
silence with strange kind eyes, and seeming to listen to me gazing at it wistfully, and playing
on my lute. And this was a woman, that had come to me in a dream. For but a little while before
I quarrelled with my father, I was lying, on a day, at noon, when I had been following a quarry
in the jungle till I ached with fatigue, resting on a river bank: and so as I lay, unawares
I fell asleep. Thus, although just barely,
those persuaded to stay and not go to see him off.

When it came time to leave, Don Braulio he brought a buggy through
the intercom, who dropped the suitcase and placed it on him.

Doña Beatriz affectionately embraced and kissed her husband, and he
corresponded with no less affection.

- Take care of yourself, Braulio,
and returns as soon as possible - Beatriz said.

- Farewell, my dear.

I'll be back soon - said Don Braulio.

Then down the stairs, seeing off both sisters, to the door, at least
had accompanied him.

Soon there was shooting the car was Don Braulio.

Beatrice and Agnes went back into the room and sat by the brazier,
a front another.

- What precipitation trip! - Beatriz said simply.

-
Paco Is he sick? - Said Ines -.

Maybe because I'm sick call and Braulio not what we meant.

- Do not believe it, Ines - replied Dona Beatriz -. Braulio knows not hide anything. Business
will flow, which neither you nor I understand. I have such confidence in me Braulio, I did not
want in tire you explain to me what the nature of these businesses
require so great a hurry.

Enough for me that I have been assured that nothing happens distressing. How, moreover, He had
to go so cheerful and calm as if he is going to regret a disgrace?

Thus
the two sisters continued to speak until ten o'clock sounded, at which
time they used go to the gathering of San Teódulo. And the perfect oval of the outline of her face
was lifted, so to say, into the superlative degree of soft fascination by a faint suggestion
of the round ripeness of a fruit in its bloom, as if the Creator, by some magical extra touch
of his chisel, had wished to exclaim: See how the full loveliness of a woman surpasses the
delicate promise of a girl! And she was rather tall, and she stood up very straight indeed,
so straight, that my heart laughed within me as I looked at her, for sheer delight, so admirably
upright was the poise of her figure, and yet so round and delicious was the curve of her arms
and her slender waist, that rose as if with exultation into the glorious magnificence of her
splendid breast, on which her left hand rested, just touching it very lightly with the tips
of her fingers, like a wind-blown leaf lying for a moment exactly at the point of junction
of two mounds of snow, as if to chide it very gently for challenging the admiration of the
three worlds. And she stood with her weight thrown on her left foot, so that her right hip,
on which her right hand rested, swelled out in a huge curve that ran down to her knee, which
was bent in, and then turned outwards, ending in a little foot that was standing very nearly
on the tip of its toe.

And so as we stood, gazing at one another in dead silence, all at once she smiled outright,
holding out both her hands. And at that very moment, the sun sank. And as I strove in vain
to move, rooted to the spot like a tree, she faded away, very slowly, back again into the dark,
growing little by little paler, till she vanished into the night, leaving nothing but her star,
that seemed to glimmer at me from a great distance, low down on the very edge of a deep-red
sky. And I strove and struggled in desperation to break the spell that held me chained, and
suddenly I woke with a loud cry, and saw before me only the river, on whose bank I was lying alone.

V

Aye! then for the first time in my life, I knew what it meant, to be alone, which had been
to me but a mere word, without any meaning at all. For as I sat by the river, I knew I had
left my soul behind in the dream that had disappeared. And my heart was burning with such a
pain that I could only breathe with great difficulty, and tears rose into my eyes, as it were
of their own accord. And I said sadly to myself: Now, beyond all doubt, I have seen some feminine
incarnation of a fallen star, and unless I can find it somewhere on earth, I shall lose the
fruit of being born at all. So one thing only remains to do, and that is to look for her, and
keep on looking until I find her. For if only I was sure, that she was absolutely beyond finding,
I would not consent to remain in this miserable body without her, even for a single moment.
But she must be alive somewhere, and able to be found: for how could such a thing as she was
exist only in a dream? For nobody could possibly have invented her, no, not even in a dream:
and it must be that my soul went roaming about as I slept, and actually caught sight of her.
And if the soul could find her, then, she is somewhere to be found, even by the body; but alas!
the body cannot travel so easily as the soul: since, in his haste, the Creator has forgotten
to give wings to anything but birds. And yet, the only thing to do is to hunt for her incessantly,
and go from place to place without stopping for a moment: since very certainly she will never
be discovered if I remain here as motionless as a hill. So I must escape at once, on some pretence,
without letting anybody know why.

And as I said, I did: and this was the very reason why I broke with my relations, and became
a vagrant instead of a king's heir. And every night I went to sleep yearning to dream the dream
again, and yet it never came, though even in my sleep I seemed in every dream to be roaming
everlastingly in jungles, and along roads that never ended, always on the very point of finding
something that I never found. And strange! instead of driving me to despair, this constant
failure actually gave me courage, for I said: If the dream had really been only a dream and
nothing more, it would surely have returned, beyond a doubt: since, as a rule, dreams are only
pictures in the night of what men think of in the day. And yet she never comes again, although
I think of nothing else, all day long, and she was very certainly no picture of anything that
I ever saw before. And clearly, it must be that my soul did actually find her, though now it
has lost its way, and does not know how to return.

And in the meanwhile, as time went on, the less I found her, the more I fell back upon my lute,
which became the only confidante of my secret, and my sole refuge in my desolation. And I used
to sit playing, thinking all the while of nothing but herself, so that she gradually became
as it were the theme and the undertone of every air. And the listeners would say: Ha! now beyond
a doubt this player on the lute must be some incarnation of a Kinnara, for the sound of his
music resembles that of the wind singing in the hollows of the bamboos that wave over waterfalls
on the sides of the snowy mountain: and his lute seems to sob, in the vain endeavour to express
some melancholy secret that for want of words it cannot articulately tell, wringing as it were
its hands of strings, for very grief: And I became a byword, and the fame of my music was carried
into the quarters of the world, like the scent of the sandal that the breeze blows from the
Malaya hill in the region of the South. Do I understand or not understand the metaphysics of love?

Count suppressed his disgust: it was given the hint when I could, and if he said any word was
by gravity, without following the joke.

- There are plenty of love - remained the poet - all sons of the nymphs: Amores terrestrial they
are what we usually know, but there are also one and only love, son Venus Urania, which, as
reported by the fabulist Aesop, and then many others have repeated poets and fabulous, live
almost forever in heaven. The immortal gods can not live without him. The presence of this Love
is the bliss of the gods. However, this Love is so good and pious, that hurt the misery and
baseness of men, calls occasionally licensed to Jupiter to descend to earth and bring us true consolation
and reflecting the light of glory. With difficulty Jupiter granted this license, to him and other
immortals find it extremely distressing lack of love, but when granting the license, that is one
century at most, and soon, Love descends between us, and leaving younger siblings whenever her shadowing,
wounding vulgar souls, uses his arrows little gold cross lofty and divine souls. Of these souls,
and wounded, then rises a stream of pure ideas, feelings and concepts near superhuman perfection,
they are like bright beacons placed at intervals in history, in the dark and rough road that follows the
wandering humanity. Great news, gentlemen, great news! Correspondence not yet been published, But be
you for sure. This has recently come Celestial love between us. As much as it hides out of modesty,
we have come to see him. It is full of grace and truth.

His glory dazzles us, but we are not blind.

Neither this parody of the most beautiful fable of Aesop Count put any comment.

The poet went more excited:

- Love the sky is hurt, as I said, some souls di cartello cousin, but after all while living here,
on earth, it always goes wandering and homeless. Choose the soul nobler, purer and more beautiful,
and makes his home there.

This soul is usually a woman, often married. Imagine, what honor, what distinction for the husband!
In the present case, the coming of Love in our godless and vicious Iron Age, the mansion Love,
its headquarters, as it were, is the soul of a married woman. Will gap and proud her husband?

Count
here and could not contain and conceal his anger.

Repressed, however, the language, because in full gathering seemed ridiculous and disgusting
insults unleashed on against scurrilous Arthur. His eyes only denoted his anger. The poet looked
as if to devour the fire in his eyes.

Rosita, by lightness of character, thoughtlessness, had been carried away from the talk poet and
had laughed at the jokes. Arthur had been very funny, making a droll emphasis their expressions
and accompanying them with appropriate gesticulation. But Rosita came to, he warned how angry was the
Count and, although late, the poet silenced.

When the men left the gathering together and were in the street and not hit Count to restrain
his anger. Lost all respect, began to roll all the wisdom, foresaw no result some, and turning
to Arthur, he said, if quietly, not so much that any of the other
commentators could not hear:

- Know it to your government.

Nor fables of Aesop, or with quotes from Plato, or in any way, however indirect it may be,
consent to forward that, in my presence, even when not I hereby put
on solfa my friendship with Beatriz. If I know you speak another Instead
of it, which allude to it, you make fun of her husband, she will feel
much, but I'll break their necks. 

Count these words pronounced with
such seriousness and energy, which Arthur could not slip taking them
to laugh. It was therefore necessary to answer seriously. And
I sat long musing over them, and saying to myself: Now after all, it is just possible not only
that his words had a meaning, but even that he was acting as an agent of the Queen, who may
take measures to make me go and see her, whether I will or no: since she is, as it seems, a
musical blue-stocking,[18] ready to force herself on anybody just to gratify her vanity by
claiming admiration for her musical proficiency, which nobody would acknowledge unless she
were a queen. Out on these queens, that dabble in matters that they do not understand, and
meddle in other people's business! But now I will steal a march on her by making my escape
betimes, and I will go this very moment and order my horse to be got ready, to give her the
slip, in case she may be meditating anything very disagreeable. 

The Countess of Alhedín had with his son a long conversation, he talked about the wedding proposal
as a great joy to his house, and an auspicious event which deserved all approval and tried to take
away from the amorous entanglements meant it, painting the home delights domestic and repeating
what was sometimes said, that it was time that had a family, acquire other serious and respectable
and employed his life and the high clothing God had given serious matters, that would be of greater
pro and luster of his name and for the good of his country.

The Condesito again denied his mother that he had relations with Dona Beatriz, and confessed I had
been prendadísimo de la Marquesa, but added that his heartless coquetry he had healed from
the principle of love, and that he had healed so completely that it was and impossible to love
the Marquise, and therefore to marry her, while recognizing that was worthy of carrying his
name and be his partner in life.

In short, although in an indirect way, and with the deepest secrecy, and softening the blow
those who spent two means, namely: first, the Countess, speaking to the uncle, and Uncle after
talking to the niece, but she, like hard lesson as punishment for
his flirtations, received what is commonly called a terrible squash.

The pride of Elisa, insulted and humiliated in the most lively, called
revenge from the bottom of his heart. And
she said: Art thou Shatrunjaya, the lute-player? And I said: Yes. Then she said: Thou deservest
almost to be slain, for such an extraordinary blunder as to confound such a thing as I am with
the Queen. And yet, after all, thy chance arrow is somewhere near the mark: for if I am not
Táráwalí, at least I am her shadow, and never very far from her, being her confidential maid.
And I have come to thee now with a message from herself: and it is this: Táráwalí the pupil
stands in sore need of Shatrunjaya the master, to help her in disentangling the quarter-tones
of a theme: and she will await him in her garden, as the sun goes down.

And I said: What, O thou red beauty, is thy name? And she said: Chaturiká[20] Then I said:
Go back, O Chaturiká, and tell the Queen that I was not to be found. I will not come. And here
is gold for thee.

And Chaturiká brushed away my bribe with a wave of her pretty arm. And she leaned back against
the door, holding the handle behind her, and looking up at me from under her long lashes, with
sweet crafty eyes, and eyebrows lifted high into a double arch. And she put her head a little
on one side, and said, with a smile: Think twice, O Shatrunjaya. Art thou a musician, and hast
thou never heard the song: Nectar when she turns towards thee: poison when she turns away?[21]
Or hast thou never tasted nectar, even in a dream? Remember, sunset! And she shook at me her
forefinger, and suddenly she opened the door, and slipped out, and shut it, and was gone; leaving
me staring at it in stupefaction, and almost believing I was dreaming, so abruptly had she
come and gone. And I said to myself in wonder: Beyond a doubt, she spoke at random, knowing
nothing of my dream; and yet she made me jump, for her arrow hit the mark exactly in the centre.
But if the maid is like the mistress, of whom she said herself, she was the shadow, then very
sure I am, it is not either maid or mistress, or anybody the least like them, that could realise
my dream. But all the same, I am caught, for the moment, in their noose: and what is to be
done now? For she will go straight back and tell it all, to this over-bearing busybody of a
queen, and if now I do not go, it will seem an incivility almost equal to an insult. For queens
do not like to be refused, and even their request is a kind of order, very difficult to disobey. 

But all this would have mattered on time and do not think so. Then there was another discretion
to be a saber.

The saber is given, and, as expected, received Arturo.

For this, no injury care was. A month of bed to heal enough for the poet.

Also fulfilled, as expected unless the other provision. It was not dog or cat Madrid not to speak
of the love of Count frantic by the wife of a clerk in the Treasury, of his crazy claim that it
is respected as angelic creature, semi-divine, and out of order and
conditions that are used naturally, and his singular affection towards
her husband suffered, whose Count suffering had the impossible determination
that nobody would know or riese.

As Earl was not to challenge and kill all Madrid, particularly women,
story of her affair with Beatriz, imagined or real, but embroidered
and discussed by all styles, circulated on talk shows, cafes, casinos
and theaters.

Beatriz's reputation was more hurt and that the body of Arthur, is
the lance he had with him the Earl of Alhedín gentleman, incapable,
by persuasion and by the violence, to convince anyone of his Platonism.

XVI

Among

the many mistakes that I put the critics, nothing grieves me as much
as you accuse me Women always painting something rebellious and outrageous.

"Who is the author? - Say -. Have not known but light women? Why not us in their stories to the
honest and pure, which always fulfilled his duty, which can and should serve as a model? " "This author
- add - hates women or has very bad opinion of them."

Against unjust accusation and I have to say that Clara, and Lucia,
El Comendador Mendoza Irene even less in The Doctor Faustino, without
all those clothes and requirements can and should make women an angelic
creature.

I will not deny, however, that Dona Blanca had sinned, and that the ferocity of his penance was worse
than the sin itself, that Pepita Jimenez was too flirtatious and more passionate than reasonable,
and not once in love knew contained, and as a gun shot to the hair, that Mary, the immortal friend,
is abandoned his passion as if I had not had free will, as if he had been driven by an irresistible
force, that was interested Constancita, calculator and capricious, and Rosita did not recognize
human or divine law other than his whim, but in all these women - no hold otherwise - are noticed
in the midst of its biggest losses, such yearning for the infinite love so sweet so tender and
passionate earnestness to the role of Savior and Redeemer to provide a hint of bliss or happiness
for man wanted, even at the expense of his own condemnation, that effortlessly forgive seem sympathetic.

Moreover,
I have to repeat here, but little of tired: a complete virtue you can not take action that interested
and has some dramatic, horrific monsters not imagine, persecutors of that virtue.

As well accuse me, and certainly more so, poverty of imagination,
should not wonder I've had so far not enough verve to make up these
monsters.

Matter, finally, be aware that, in these stories called secular novels,
not characters should be left as allegories of virtues or vices, but
to take real life, where, typically, we see in them a certain mix
of good and bad qualities of vices and virtues, foibles starts sublime
and pathetic, which is what is the truth of the characters and what
gives the characters mock, if the author's style is able to both more
vivid and persistent reality that the characters historical.

In a poetic narrative that this is either novel, although the prose is written, a woman immaculate,
a saint, an angel, can not be mixed in the action but at the expense of others characters,
it is best to appear, without reaching the end of his robe to mud land, and end up vanishing
into the ether or up to the empyrean. His feet hardly be touch the ground.

In short, either way all is said, as I aspire to give aesthetic rules for writing novels, it is
certain that I, not because I think badly of women, but for lack
of imagination and the misfortune of not having found frequently holy
- not saints either - in this sublunary world, I have to allow me
to introduce this story, true and simple, a new character, women too,
who is far more than any other of my heroes to be a paragon of perfection,
but strongly involved in the events that I refer.

This woman is a Marquesa. His title is not necessary to say. The call it by its name baptism,
as if we have the greatest intimacy with her. The call Elisa.

It was about three years had been widowed. Not yet reached age thirty. She had no children.
It was delicious and very elegant. Not even his fiercest enemy was denied discreet, witty, fun
and cheerful. Not even his most determined dared to call worshipers beautiful, nor its detractors
ever molested a description of it ugly. Everyone unanimously the distinguished declared eminent
degree. But what stood out and why? It was not too high or too low or too white or too dark,
or blonde or brunette. In none of their there was nothing unusual
features or markings.

His nose was not long and flat, not too regular or too irregular, her mouth was not big or girl,
against her teeth could not pitch anyone an epigram, but also, without
exaggeration, could compare with the pearls.

In short: crushed and analyzed all the visible and tangible items of Elisa, for example, hands,
waist, feet, arms, throat and forehead, there was nothing to draw attention or for good nor
bad. The symmetrical layout or order of all these parties had nothing either of singular. The Elisa
was unique in the set, but in a strange way. The expression his face was no doubt what was notable,
which, more remarkable, made her unforgettable for those who had seen her only once.

It seems that his appearance was for all souls a force similar to that of the press stamping
on the bronze or gold, with indelible and firm drawing, the image that carries If the die. And
Elisa also made so that, yielding to all the demands of fashion voluble, taking all its changes
in dress and hairstyle, always kept unchanged, immutable, the material traces of his person, as
the figure in the steel die is recorded. Time itself seemed to have stood for it for eight years.
At least Elisa required contemplate too closely to notice some very slight on his face passing
of time that had happened.

Contábanse such wonders about the seductive power of Elisa, that even
the fools men invulnerable and most precious love feared if they were
to treat it a lot.

It was assumed frenzied passion that had inspired, stubborn, deep and lasting, and that she,
or had remained insensitive, or had yielded for an instant a fleeting sympathy, a hallucination
momentary before mastering his heart had vanished as a dream. If you had raised an idol on the
altar of his mind, he was overthrown at once.

The Marquis, the husband of Elisa, was a gentleman and very comm'il faut negligible. Their marriage
done for reasons of state and treasury, and had acted in love, or had created later. The full
vanity, a perfect vacuum around baby, all estimation and confidence,
from the day of the wedding until the day of death had been neatly
hidden under the polite forms of mutual consideration, respect and
cold the most delicate gallantry.

Moreover, Elisa had always gone through modest and prudent. Not cited, during marriage, a triumph
that love alone would have brought upon it. Had I known instill or without knowing or intending
it, had raised expectations that did not come to fruition.

Until now a widow, Elisa had not frequently addressed to the Earl of Alhedín.

Verle and wish her boyfriend was in all one. She was a genius so that we would proceed rudely called
flirtation, because his vanity was so subtle, so shoot and so refined, I needed a name more
pilgrims and newer.

So, as I have come to find out, because of Elisa had to enter the elegant and aristocratic
dialect Madrid the English word flirtation, which begins and even disseminated abasement. A
few years ago was a word that was silent except in the most elegant
rooms and only if applied to another woman who was not Elisa.

Elisa began, then, to flirt with Condesito.

He soon obtained inspire love a little, but not the Condesito of those who surrender and enslave
easily.

The flirtation leaves no trace, no trace, no sign of injury, and may
yet enter deep in the soul and hurt her death.

The most essential excellence of the flirtation is, what I have said,
to shoot darts so invisible, that the person who shoots can be taken
for dismissing, in favor augur without ever Atine or the foundation
or the testimony of omen, and hopes to evoke under such mysterious
spells that are seen by those ruling.

The question that a woman has done something to encourage, must remain standing. On this question
should appear another no less important, namely because the woman
has done something in that sense, what it has done with reflective
or raptured will?

Was there any inspiration was deliberate or unconscious?

It is fair to note that this theory about the flirtation has told me a lady very talented and
very learned in such studies. From what I can not answer, is that the word English has the same
meaning everywhere. Perhaps flirtation and coquetry are in Britain perfect synonyms. But here
we try to philology. It matters little value etymological and genuine speech. What matters is that
the word address flirtation, in the elegant salons of Spain, has a very different value, it means
a refinement, a subtlety of coquetry, flirtation rather plain and simple usually is customary.

Unfortunately for our Marchioness, Count Alhedín was not a man against whom they could enforce
such subtle arts. Count perhaps liked it rested quietly in doubt when other subjects it was,
but in the business of love, like leaving the question soon.

Elisa's flirtations were not, therefore, the success they had with other men.

The Count raised the issue in such a way that was necessary for the
mystery is cleared.

Elisa whisked denied all their flirtations, and the Count is away until calm, coldly his claim
of love. They returned the flirting, the demands were renewed, and she again refused, and Condesito
unwittingly offended, withdrew completely from the court to Elisa.
All Flirting further work was lost.

The Condesito Elisa even gave satisfaction of pride, showing their
anger or exhale a complaint.

The last flirtation, the latest flirtation with the Count had been sensitive, was in Paris during
the spring. In Paris also came the commitment of the Earl of no be sensitive again. And the Count
was able to meet its commitment. Easier conquests consoled and distracted him from that very
slight setback.

Was mortified a thousand times more pride in this than the Conde Elisa. Unaccustomed Elisa to
desist as soon heartthrobs pretending and withdraw as well with glacial rest, he was somewhat rough,
but concealed the sink.

The Condesito and she left, apparently, at least very close.

He had come to Madrid for business, and Elisa promised to go to Biarritz
for the summer.

Occurred, while in Madrid the Count, the appearance of Dona Ines Beatriz and Gardens Buen Retiro,
the efforts of Count to know them and treat them, and eventually
as we have already referred.

The count did not go to Biarritz to fulfill his promise friendly.

Elisa, at first, distracted with other flirtations, surrounded by adoration and triumphant ever,
not missed the lack of Conde. Assumed that business and held him still lasted in Madrid.

Later, when he reached her ears that kept him in Madrid Conde new love, Elisa was a little upset
as, but not well ascertained that no new love were in no great lady, no lady swanky and famous, but
with a villager, wife of a writer or anything like that, he became a terrible desire to laugh
and make fun the Condesito, and forgot his brilliant victories past,
considering it as an unhappy parapoco, who took refuge from the tacky,
or failure to achieve anything in higher areas, or having depressed
mood, or taste havoc, ruin and plebeian.

Elisa returned to Madrid.

Count saw in theaters, walks and talks, and found it so kindly and so friendly affection that was
more certain than ever his indifference to her point to love.

Indifference could not be affected or pretended that way.

This began to offend the vanity of Elisa. We dare not smite also ensure that any other fiber
of his heart, less petty than that which corresponds to vanity.

It also captured the mood of Elisa's most lively curiosity to know the woman clerk, from whom all
claimed as the Count was in love.

But Dona Beatriz had not penetrated more classrooms than in those of the Countess of San Teódulo;
would not drive, for the simple reason that it was not, going to Mass and other church and other
times that of Elisa.

Anyway, they went months without Elisa came to see Dona Beatriz.

It is true that if Elisa walked curious, he was also afraid of her. I was afraid to find it
beautiful and naturally distinguished. He reveled in mock vulgar and ordinary.

Meanwhile, Elisa came to the notice of something that had to mortify most of all: the drive Count on
us to believe that their relations with Dona Beatriz was Petrarchism himself. Was this is true
or not, involved a consideration, respect, a delicate attention to
clerk's wife, Elisa was filled with anger and even envy when it pondered.

The more efforts did not ponder, the more frequent were the thoughts.

Elisa still conformed to explain everything by a certain cowardice, indolence or poverty of spirit,
which withdrew the count of how difficult and how easy it was inclined to, that led him to depart
of the rough and steep climb to follow the beaten path and plains.

The I could not suffer with patience was that the Count is pleased
and still boasts that go up by higher roughness, and struggling with
the toughest challenges she had excited in vain to climb and overcome.

Despite their efforts to pretend the contrary, insisted Elisa then form large idea of ​​merit
of Dona Beatriz.

- It must be - he said to himself - a devil woman, beautiful, discreet, possessing infernal resources,
as has been bewitched and stupefy the Count, which is no small or inexperienced no fool.

With these and similar reflections the Marquesa is tormented almost continuously.

The new, finally, the showdown with the poet Arturo Conde to defend the pristine purity of women's
clerk, a bomb exploded in the heart of Elisa.

- The wish, the love madly - Elisa said in the depths of my soul -. What will be done that daemon
to capture those thoughts free to breaking on the mind clear and calm, to move a storm of passions
in that spirit so calmly?

Nothing fixed Elisa answer such questions, but vaguely, and pretended
to Dona Beatriz so beautiful, so quiet and so elegant as it was in
reality, and also implied in Dona Beatriz learned an art not a wisdom
infused just so extraordinary, that all flirtations she used to use
were crude, childish or silly, in comparison with those of fortunate
that dark and provincial.

In this state of mind came a day happened to be damn, going for a walk Elisa in Lander, while
passing through the Puerta del Sol at about four o'clock in the afternoon,
interpose some women off guard and they were about to be trampled.

The man who accompanied escaped the danger of shaking his stick before the horse, which, terrified,
is raised their hands, and gesticulating rearing and shook the landau and scared at the same
time Elisa.

How it would not be surprised to recognize the man who had just given him the fright Alhedín Count
himself, who greeted her politely and humbly asked forgiveness sign
of that necessary irreverence!

There was no time for talk to Elisa Conde, whose horses, paragraph
Count them block the path, pulled furiously, despite the vigor with
which the driver was holding.

Elisa had time, however, to look, to examine the two women. Guessed the point who they were.

Cruel
was the result of its review. Beatriz absorbed their attention, scarcely noticed Inesita; but Beatrice
saw her and watched, studied with an intensity so deep, which offset
surplus over the short period of the study.

In the depths of his consciousness, into that abyss where not served
by larger self live in us, and as far as understanding rarely gets
dull, Elisa recognized much lower for a moment around Dona Beatriz.

Soon, however, turned his mind from the prostration, he recovered from being intimidated, the
faint he had fallen.

The reaction of wounded pride was very violent and powerful.

Then, running in his car down the street of Alcala, Elisa vowed to fight to the death Dona Beatriz,
which was far removed from that rose against him so formidable enemy.

On behalf of pride in the name of love, which was born suddenly pride
in his soul, if well with impure bastard birth, Elisa was resolved
to fight, to venture all to attract Count back and take it away from
Dona Beatriz and take it.

Husband or lover, everything was just at that moment of anger: what mattered was held the count,
get that was not Dona Beatriz, get that woman saw abandoned.

XVII

Despite its cult of Dona Beatriz, the Condesito still going to theaters, tours and meetings aristocratic.
At these points always found Elisa.

This re-used to captivate all the means employed had before, but the little Count, firm and cold
as a stone, it is not sensible or even showed it was understood.

Elisa did not lose hope so: its arts and was strained beyond the term until where his life had
taken the flirtation. Neither got the Count and give the slightest sign that were inclined to
surrender.

Elisa then took pains in her dress and hairstyle, looked new and rich
galas, the mother of invention so that the gatherings had more spell
their conversation, drew around him a few men were worth more to any
style, was surrounded by more brilliant and numerous court ever and
even so he could overcome the indifference of Conde.

Samples gave him more obvious and flattering your choice of left planted a thousand times around
a circle of admirers, and breaking on balls, went to grab the arm of the scornful. For he was
the sweetest eyes, the warmest smiles, all those signs in short,
often portend for and reveal love, without going beyond the limits
of modesty and decorum.

The count did not respond to diversion.

This would, but less cruel. The Count replied with gratitude, with extreme courtesy and compliance
with such glacial, which put itself out of the poor Marchioness.

Imagine, finally, Elisa, that was happening with the Count as the
shepherd liar in the fable who cried "Wolf!

Wolf! "When the wolf came, and that once the wolf came, not worth crying "Wolf!" because those
who could help him no credit given their cries. Elisa Conde estimated that came with the claim,
fearing new joke. Was therefore necessary to give full evidence of sincerity.

Much has violated before resolving. His pride would not consent. Their customs, so contrary the
humble honesty, his desire to put dock.

Elisa knew promising, encouraging, giving hope in such an air and confusing that even she could
deny that he had promised encouraged. His love, or rather the ghost, the appearance of love
she created and nurtured in his soul, was so subtle and vaporous,
it slid to the bulk of the most hardened, sometimes waking up storms,
and left no trace no trace of their passage.

Vanish as shadow was illusory, vain as sylph, and had the strength to destroy a giant heart.

But the ghost of love is not worth it and with the Count. True love, though born of envy and jealousy,
not worth either. The Count, chastened and false love, false took for the true. It was essential
to show his true love and reality, but offered the slightest doubt. Elisa Beatriz eager to steal
the heart of the Count, cost what it might took.

In this mood, Elisa was given to all that could assure the victory.

But in the midst of its most violent passions, prudence never left.
Estimated calmly, as if in quiet.

Calculated, then, on this occasion,
that unconditional surrender was not victory but defeat; it is possible
that the Count, true winner, to return to Dona Beatriz, hiding fleeting
infidelity or asking pardon for his fault. Elisa shivered just thinking
of spite.

His first idea was that the Count, if left to Dona Beatrice,
or her husband or her lover, limited to only one of the two terms
of the dilemma. The Marquesa, so free up there, decided to subject
to the dominion of man. It was rich, despite his futile flirtation,
its reputation had been preserved without stain, was no less illustrious
family that the Count, was for Count an excellent match, why were
not to marry the two? It was the only sure Elisa had to triumph over
Dona Beatriz.

A woman as proud as a hint Elisa could not direct the
Count: they could not She was declared. Decidióse, therefore, a step
that would not compromise its reputation, which the left unharmed,
but could mortify his vanity. 

Called home to an elderly uncle who
inspired him the most confidence confession made to him general of
his flirtation with Count Alhedín; recognized that with love there
are no jokes; stated that, teasing her with love, and was mocked,
the captive and love, and begged the wise guy who saw the mother of
the little Count, and, as their own, while giving understand that
it was satisfied that the Marquise was propitious, propose to that
lady so bright marriage for his son.

Uncle discretion and ability
to comply with the delicate assignment. Alhedín widow Countess found
that his son could not dream of better wedding, and put himself entirely
from the Marquesa, whose strong will for the Count's extremely flattered.

It
goes without saying that the negotiations were with the utmost secrecy.
 Now indeed, I have dropped myself
into a well without a rope, and she is as utterly beyond my reach, as if indeed she were a star.

And my knees shook, and I sank down, with my head buried in my hands, ready to cry, for sheer
anguish, at the thought of my inability to get at her, and the horror on purpose to keep me
in suspense, and torture my impatience. And then at last, she said: Sunset! What! didst thou
fear I was going to say Farewell?

And as she laughed again, I caught her by the hand, in exultation, and her laughter suddenly
changed into a shriek. And she said, with more laughter: Nay, thou hast come within a little
of breaking my hand in pieces, gripping it like one that catches at a twig, to save himself
from drowning. What! wouldst thou requite a benefit, by injuring thy benefactor? Or hast thou
again mistaken one hand for another? And again she began to laugh, looking at me slily, with
her provoking pretty eyes: and she said: No matter, I forgive thee, for as I said, I understand.
But O Shatrunjaya the lute-player, what is it that has made thee change thy mind, since yesterday?
Or am I to go back and tell the Queen, once more, that her music-master will not come?

And she turned, laughing still, to go away. But I sprang forward, and caught her in my arms
again, and said: Nay, dear Chaturiká, do not go. Stay just a little longer, for art thou not
her shadow?

And yet once more she began to laugh, pushing me away, as she exclaimed: It is utterly impossible,
O Shatrunjaya, for I have many things to do, and very little time. And I am not sure that I
care to be embraced, merely because I am the shadow of another. Thou must contrive how thou
canst, without me, to restrain thy insatiable appetite of embracing other people, till sunset.
Patience! thou hast not long to wait.

And she went out and shut the door, and suddenly, just as it was closing, she opened it again,
and put in her head. And she said: Shall I tell her of thy anxiety to embrace me, or leave
it to thee? Dear Chaturiká! Ah! ah! Nectar when she turns towards thee: poison when she turns away!

And then she shut the door and disappeared.

XI

And as the door shut behind her, she left the whole room filled to the very brim with the red
glow of triumphant love's emotion, and the atmosphere of the ecstasy of happiness; and the
laughter, of which she seemed to be the incarnation, hung, so to say, in every corner of the
room. And my heart sang and my blood bubbled with the wave of the ocean of anticipation that
surged and swelled within me, so that I was utterly unable to sit still, for sheer joy; and
my soul began as it were to dance in such excitement, that I could hardly refrain from shouting,
resembling one intoxicated by the abruptness of a sudden change from certain death to the very
apex of life's sweetness. And I said to myself: Sunset! So, then, beyond a doubt, she has either
forgiven me, or is willing to forgive. And who knows? For if she has forgiven once, she may
forgive again: when again, it may be, she will allow me to say good-bye. And at the thought,
my heart began to burn with dull fire, hurting me so that I could hardly breathe: and yet strange!
the pain was divided only by a hair from a sweetness so intense that I laughed aloud, without
knowing why, like one hovering on the very verge of being mad. And so I remained, drowned in
the ocean of the torture and the nectar of love-longing, every now and then waking as from
a day-dream to wonder at the sun, who seemed to dawdle on his way, as if on purpose to separate
my soul from my body with impatience. But at last, after all, day began slowly to come to an
end, and I set out for the palace, with feet that could hardly be restrained from running as
fast as they could go.

And at the gate the very same pratihárí was waiting, and she led me away, exactly as before,
to the door, and opened it, and I went in. And I stood, listening to its sound as it shut behind
me, hardly able to believe that it was not a dream, as I found myself once more in the garden
that contained the Queen. And I stopped for a while, for my heart was beating so furiously
that I was afraid it would break. And I said to myself, with a sigh of ineffable relief: Ah!
now, then, I am actually here, once more. And O now, very soon, comes the agonising rapture
of seeing her again. And I wonder where she is, and how I shall find her to-night. And now
I must begin to hunt for a very sweet quarry. And suddenly I started almost running, paying
absolutely no attention to the trees at all, with eyes that were blind for everything in the
world, except one.

And then, all at once, I stopped short: for I looked and saw her, a little way off, under a
great nyagrodha tree, sitting crossways in a low swing[25] that hung down from a long bough,
holding one of its ropes in her left hand that was stretched as high as it could go, and leaning
back against the other with her head cushioned in her bent right arm. And she had her left
foot tucked beneath her, so that her left knee stood up in the swing, while her right leg was
stretched out below, so that its foot just reached the ground, to allow her to swing very gently,
whenever her toes touched the earth. And the lovely line of her great right hip seemed to cry
for admiration, running down in a single unbroken curve from her waist into the ground, balanced
as it were above by the slender beauty of her left arm rising from the mound of her left breast.
And the rising moon which she was watching touched her with a faint lustre, lighting up like
a lamp the great gem in her hair, and making the champak blossom that floated in the hollow
of her bosom's wave glimmer like the foam on a midnight sea. And after a while, I began to
steal towards her on tiptoe, fearing to disturb her, lest the lovely picture should be spoiled,
yet yearning to be with her with the whole strength of my soul. But all at once, she heard
me coming, and looked round and saw me. And instantly she left her swing, and came towards
me, walking quickly with undulating steps, as upright as a pillar of her own tree. And I stood
still, to watch her coming, and adore it, and delay it, but she reached me in a moment, and
she stopped, and said with a smile: I am very glad to see thee. I sent thee, by the mouth of
Chaturiká, a time, and yet I hardly dared to hope for thy coming: since doubtless thou hast
a better use for thy hours than to waste them upon me.

And I stared at her, in utter stupefaction: and then, all at once I began to laugh. And I exclaimed:
Waste! I do not understand. What dost thou mean? Or what was thy object in bidding me to come
to thee at sunset? Surely not merely to talk to me of music? And she looked at me gently, with
surprise. And she said: Of course. What other object could I have? And I looked at her in silence,
saying to myself: Can it really be possible that she means exactly what she says, and that
this was the only significance of the word she sent to me? And suddenly I leaned towards her,
with hunger in my eyes. And I said: Then indeed, I was mistaken. It was not so, that I interpreted
thy summons. Alas! O Táráwalí, the only music that I came for was the music of thy incomparable
voice, and I thought it was thy own deliberate intention to send for me simply that I might
listen to it again, as I gazed on its owner with adoration.

And she looked at me reproachfully, and she said: Again! Alas! I imagined that thou wouldst
ere now have recovered from thy shock of yesterday, and be able now to help me; and yet, here
is thy delusion returning, as it seems, even worse than before. See now, forget altogether
that I am a woman, and let us talk of music, like two friends. And I laughed in derision, and
I exclaimed: Forget that thou art a woman! Ask me rather to forget I am a man. Art thou blind,
or hast thou never even looked into a mirror? Dost thou imagine me less than a man, bidding
me forget that she is a woman who stands before me, as thou dost, smiling, and bewildering
my soul with her maddening loveliness, and the absolute perfection of her body and her soul,
showing the hungry man food, and forbidding him to eat, and the thirsty man water, and requiring
him to think of it as something it is not? Or art thou all the time only playing, having no
heart in thy body, or a stone for a heart? Didst thou summon me only to torture and torment
me? Dost thou not know, canst thou not see, the agony of my suffering, standing close enough
to seize thee in my arms, and yet kept at a distance, to listen to what I cannot even understand?
I tell thee, I am drunk with thy beauty, and mad with intolerable desire for the incomprehensible
fascination of thy charm, and dost thou dream of quenching my fire by talking about friends?
I want no friendship from thee. I will be more than a friend to thee, or less: aye! I would
give all the friendship in the three worlds for a single drop of nectar, mixed of thy body
and thy soul.

And as I spoke, she listened, putting up every now and then her hand, as if to stop me: and
when I ended, she stood, looking at me in perplexity, as if utterly unable to decide what to
do. And at last, I said: Why dost thou say nothing? And she said, simply; I do not know what
to say. And I laughed aloud, lost in admiration of the extraordinary simplicity of her incomparable
reply. And I exclaimed: O thou wonderful woman, how can I find words to express what I feel
for thee? And she said, as if with despair: I counted on thy recovery. And I said: Count not
on my recovery, for I never shall recover. And she said, with a smile: Then, as it seems, I
shall never have my music lesson. And perhaps it would be better, if it ended here, without
ever having begun. And in any case, to-night, thy visit must of necessity be a very short one,
since I have other business, unexpectedly arisen, to do. And so, shall we say good-night, without
any more delay?

And I said slowly: If I must go, I must: for I will obey thee, order what thou wilt. And yet,
wilt thou not allow me at least to bid thee good-bye, as thou didst last night?

And she looked at me, as I leaned towards her, as if with reproach, and she stood for a moment,
hesitating, and as it were, balanced in the swing of her own beautiful irresolution. And then,
after a while, she sighed, and put out her hand, as if with resignation. And I drew her to
me with a clutch, and caught her in my arms, showering on her lips and her eyes and her hair
kisses that resembled a rain of fire: while all the time she offered absolutely no resistance,
allowing me to do with her exactly as I pleased. And when at last I stopped to breathe, looking
at her with eyes dim with emotion, she said, very gently, with a smile, lying just as she was,
fettered in my arms: Hast thou yet bid me good-bye, to thy satisfaction? And I said in a low
voice: Nay, not at all. For thou hast not yet kissed me in return, even once. And as if out
of compassion, she did as she was told: kissing me gently, over and over again, for I would
not let her stop, with kisses that resembled snowflakes that burned as they fell.

And at last, I let her go. And holding her two hands, I gazed at her for a while in adoration,
while she looked at me as if patiently waiting to be released, with a little smile. And I said:
Now then I will obey thee, and go: for thou hast given me something that will keep me alive.
And yet thou art cheating me by sending me away before the time, and thou owest me the rest.
Promise me, that thou wilt summon me to-morrow, or I cannot go away, even if I try. For if
I go, not knowing when I shall see thee again, I will slay myself on thy palace steps.

And she drew away her hands, very gently, and turned away, and stood looking down upon the
ground, reflecting. And I watched her, as I waited, with anxiety: for she seemed to be meditating,
not so much of me, as of something unknown to me, that stood in the way of her decision. And
then at last, she turned towards me, looking at me, as it seemed, with pity. And she said,
almost sadly, and yet with a smile: Poor moth, thou wilt only burn away thy wings. Thou little
knowest, what eyes are on thee, or the danger thou art running by overestimating me, and coming
here at all. And yet, the mischief has been done, and thou art greatly to be pitied, having
fallen under a spell: and thou art suffering from a fever to which nothing can bring any alleviation
but myself. And it would be far better to refuse thee, since to grant thy request cannot possibly
do thee any good. And yet I cannot find it in my heart to deny thee what thou cravest, since
I am myself the involuntary cause of all thy delusion, and can give thee such extraordinary
pleasure, with so very little trouble to myself. And so, I will give thee thy desire, and to-morrow's
sunset shall be thine.

And I uttered a cry of joy. And utterly unable to control my emotion, I caught her once more
in my arms, kissing her passionately with trembling lips. And suddenly I shuddered with delight,
for I felt her lips kissing me again. And my senses reeled, and I murmured with emotion: Ah!
thou lady of my dream, art thou real, or am I still only dreaming after all? And she stood
back, putting me away with her hand, and she said, gently: I am real, but thou seest me through
the eyes of thy dream. For what is there, after all, in me, save what thou puttest there thyself,
with the aid of thy fancy, and thy passion, and the recollection of thy dream?

And I looked at her in silence for a while, and then I said: Promise me yet one thing more.
And she smiled, and said: Thou art insatiable: and yet, what is it? And I said: Send me Chaturiká
in the morning, just to tell me what I know already. For I shall be dying of impatience, and
she is like a foretaste of thyself, and will help to keep me alive.

And she laughed, and she said: Ah! thou art very crafty, for Chaturiká is far prettier than
I. But I will send her for all that, to gratify thee to the full. And moreover, I am not jealous.
But now, thou must absolutely go: for I must also. And she leaned towards me, with eyes that
were full of an unutterable caress: and she said: To-morrow, at sunset, I will be thy dream.
Only remember, not to blame me, for anything that may happen when awaking comes.

And I turned and went away, with a heart that trembled in the extremity of joy. And when I
had gone a little way, I looked back, and saw her still standing, looking after me, with her
two hands clasped behind her head, as motionless as a tree. And after a little while, I looked
again, and she was gone.

XII

And when I got home, I threw myself on my bed, and instantly fell fast asleep, for I was worn
out by emotion and fatigue: and my slumber resembled the deep peace of my own heart. And a
little before the dawn, I woke up, and went out, wandering where my footsteps led me, with
a soul lost in meditation on Táráwalí, bathed in the nectar of reminiscence and anticipation,
and yet puzzled by a doubt that it could not resolve. And I said to myself as I went along:
How in the world can a queen like her, who laughs all other women to utter scorn, for beauty
and understanding and gentleness and sweetness, and some unintelligible magic charm that is
somehow spread all over her, and echoes in the tone of her delicious voice that makes every
fibre of my heart tremble every time I hear it; how can such a queen as she show such extraordinary
favour to such a thing as me? For I could understand it, if it were any other man. For then
I should say that beyond all doubt, she actually preferred him to all others in the world,
for sheer affection. And yet, as it is, it is quite incomprehensible. For, it might seem, that
she must be in love with me herself, returning my affection: and yet it cannot be. For how
could such a miracle as she is, the supreme achievement of the Creator, and the concentrated
essence of the charm of all her sex, think of such a one as me, even in a dream, as an object
of affection? And yet, if not, how is her behaviour to be explained? For I might perhaps believe
that she was merely playing with me for her own amusement, were she any other woman than exactly
the one she is: but as it is, no one could believe it that had ever seen her for an instant:
and she needs no other argument in her defence than every glance at her supplies. And it may
be, after all, that she took up with Narasinha merely out of pique, at being so unceremoniously
slighted and cast off as a thing of no value by her booby of a husband, and, as it were, also
out of gratitude to find herself appreciated at her true value, which she must very well understand
notwithstanding all her own beautiful self-depreciation, which is an extra charm enhancing
all her other charms: and afterwards, it may be, she has changed her mind, as women do, about
Narasinha, without being willing to admit it, even to herself; and come, only the other day,
suddenly on me. Aye! beyond a doubt, this would be the true conclusion, and the answer to the
riddle, but for one consideration that makes it utterly impossible, that I am only I.

And so as I debated with myself, all at once I heard my own name called aloud in the air. And
I looked up, and lo! there was my old friend Haridása,[26] on a camel. And he said: Ha! Shatrunjaya,
art thou thyself indeed, or another exactly like thee, or hast thou lost thy senses and thy
ears? For here have I been calling to thee, all along the street, without succeeding in waking
thee from thy dream, till now. And what can it be, that can so fill thy mind as to stop up
all its entrances?

And I exclaimed in delight: Ah! Haridása, thou art come in the very nick of time, the very
man, at this moment, that I need most. Get off thy camel, for a while, and come and sit beside
me, and find me, if thou canst, an answer to a question that I cannot find myself. And so he
did. And as soon as we were seated by the roadside, I said to him: Haridása, listen. Thou knowest
me well. Now tell me thy opinion: am I one that a woman might choose out of many for a lover?

And Haridása began to laugh. And he looked at me shrewdly, and he said: Aha! Shatrunjaya the
lute-player, so this was thy preoccupation? Art thou one to catch a woman's fancy? O Shatrunjaya,
why not? For art thou not a musician, famous in the world, and a man among men, into the bargain?
All women love a giant, such as thou art. Any woman of them all might do worse than fall in
love with thee. And yet thy very question shows, that in this matter of women, thou art little
better than a child, as indeed thou always wert. For even the Deity himself can never tell
what man any woman will prefer, or why: as how should he, seeing that she does not even know,
herself? And there never yet existed any man whom some woman would not worship, let him be
as ugly as you please, or even for that very reason: and yet, let a man be a very Kámadewa,
woman after woman will pass him by, without even so much as casting a glance at him out of
the very corner of her eye. For a woman's affection depends on her fancy, and that is like
the wind, that comes and goes and wavers how and where it will, without a reason that anybody
can discover. And it is sheer waste of time to sit and wonder, whether thou art or art not
a man that a woman might love. Thou art both, or neither: for the only way to settle thy question
is to try. And she will, or she will not, of her own accord. And now, who is she, this beauty
who has set thee so knotty a problem to solve?

And I said with indifference: There is no such beauty; for all my perplexity arose from the
line of an old song: Nectar when she turns towards thee: poison when she turns away.

And Haridása turned sharp towards me, and looked at me intently for a very long while, saying
absolutely nothing. And we sat talking of other things till he rose to go away. And then, at
the very moment he was mounting on his camel, he turned, and came back. And he said: Listen!
Thou art hiding from me something that maybe I could startle thee by guessing: but no matter.
Keep thy secret: but listen to a piece of good advice, which may serve thee at a pinch. If
ever thou wouldst have a woman prize thee, never let her see that thou settest any store by
her. Treat her as a straw, and she will run after thee as if thou wert a magnet: make thyself
her slave, and she will hold thee cheap, and discard thee for another. For women think meanly
of their sex, and utterly despise the man who places them above himself: since in her heart
every woman longs to be a man, bewailing her misfortune in being born a woman, and praying
all her life for one thing only, to be born a man in another birth. And one thing above all
she cannot understand, how or why any man should make a fuss about any woman, as all men do:
which, just because she is not a man herself, she cannot comprehend. And like jugglers, that
are not taken in by their own tricks, women look upon men as mere fools, for being taken in
at all. For a woman's charm, to a woman, is not only not a charm at all, but a trick, and a
lure, understood, and utterly despised. So now, be a man, and whatever folly thou art meditating,
at least beware of being guilty of the very greatest of them all, by doubting of thy own superiority
of manhood to the womanhood of any woman, no matter who she be: and earning her contempt, by
lying at her feet. And now, farewell! for I have business with Narasinha.

And at the name of Narasinha, I pricked up my ears. And I said, with feigned indifference:
Who is Narasinha?

And Haridása spat upon the ground. And he said: One, whom thou art lucky not to know: and yet,
his name is apropos. For he is the Queen's lover, and an instance in point: since he leads
her by a string, just because he treats her as a trifle, and not, as all her other lovers do,
as a gem not to be matched by any other in the sea. And yet he is not, like thee, a man among
men, but a man among women. For just as a dancing-girl loves to be treated as a queen, so does
a queen love to be treated as a dancing-girl.

And then, all at once, he struck me on the shoulder. And he said, in a low voice: Why didst
thou start, when I named Narasinha?

And without waiting for any answer, he got quickly on his camel, and rode away, never looking back.

XIII

And I stood, looking after him, with a startled heart, and then I went home slowly, saying
to myself: How in the world did he guess my secret, and what did he mean? Was there a warning
in his words? And what is all this about the Queen? Did he ever see her in his life? for if
he had, he would long ago have discovered that all his rules have exceptions, of which Táráwalí
is one: being not only the very gem beyond comparison that he spoke of with contempt, but a
woman of women who very certainly never would despise any one at all, least of all the man
who thought her exactly what she is, a star, far, far above his own muddy earth: a thing made
of some rare celestial matter, differing altogether from anything to be found here below, fetched
by the Creator when he meant to make her from some abysmal intermundane mine, where ocean foam
and lunar ooze and sandal-wood and camphor lie jumbled up together with the essence of all
curves and smiles and whispers and soft kisses and sweet glances and irresolution and long
hair. And the image of the Queen rose up before me, laughing as it were in scorn at Haridása,
and utterly obliterating everything he said. And I said to myself in ecstasy: Sunset will be
here, very soon. And I reached my house, and looked, and lo! there was sitting at the door
a Rajpoot, covered with the desert's dust, and holding by the rein a horse that hung its head,
trembling still, and white with foam.

And as I came towards him, he stood up, and made obeisance. And he said: Maháráj, thou art
come at last, and it was time. And I said: What is the matter? Then he said: Thy mother sent
me, and I have ridden night and day. The King thy father is dying, and every moment he may
be dead. And now, if thou carest, either for thy father, or thy mother, or thy throne, there
is only one chance for thee, to fly to them as fast as any horse can take thee, without the
delay of a single moment. So my message is delivered, and the Maháráj is judge.

And again he made obeisance, and went away on foot, leading his horse behind. And I stood,
looking after him in a stupor, like one struck by a bolt from heaven, in the form of his appalling
news. And I said to myself: Go I must, or my mother is ousted, and the ráj lost. And yet if
I go, the sun will set in the Queen's garden, and I shall not be there. And Dona Beatriz - such was the respect
and consideration that he had wanted - the Count is angry that anyone could imagine he dared
to desire.

The Count would therefore appear as fine friend, as an admirer and constant as that He delights
in talking, watching, communicating thoughts, without interest or purpose it is not clear as crystal
and gold. To this there was no need to hide who spoke spend time with Dona Beatriz ear. It was
not secret to conceal the sinful, but in order not to pollute the holy. It was not the mystery that
surrounds the offender is over honest people, but the mystery of
undertaken with regard to the profane vulgar.

Unfortunately, the profane vulgar was not content with believing in the sanctity of mystery, and
I explained a bit tired so uplifting.

Almost every night and Condesito Beatriz had a lengthy duet, unheard of for all except for them.

Don
Braulio before the duo took place just as mysterious as Don Braulio was absent. Neither they are
modest, or Don Braulio was worried.

It seems that all three lived equally convinced of the pristine innocence of it all, although
would also that the conviction was entirely consumed in three of them, not leaving anything for
the rest the world.

All the pundits were complaining about the low of the sham and shame, which that the taking of
Conde, Beatriz, and even the great Don Braulio, in whom mercy to fame was getting to be too clever,
no person would involve candid and ignorance, but notorious and vile pretense.

More extreme and who spread this bad opinion was Arturo, the poet. In his verse was almost always
religious and moral, and ascetic, and mystic, without mixing mills, but in prose, as if the verses
had spent all the poetry of his soul, was most prosaic and realistic than you can imagine.
This dissonance between his words and his words triggered rhythmic
the pace was a strange contradiction.

The subway and the consonants seemed imperative categorical conscience. He recited his poems,
and listeners were inclined to regard as a holy father, Dr. enlightened and blessed servant of
God. He spoke without number and without rhyme, and was afraid to hear it was a runaway tyke,
without belief and without respect for anything.

The night following the morning when the conference took place between
the Count and his mother, Count, therefore he was moody, mixed very
little in general conversation the gathering of Rosita.

He spoke a few words with her, spoke briefly with Ines, who was there, greeted the pundits,
and went to make his apart with Dona Beatriz which was apparently
longer and more intimate than ever.

Don Braulio wine that night and saw the addition to the usual serenity.

The

gatherings usually lasted until about two, but don Braulio and ladies
used leave before one o'clock.

So they did that night.

The Count of Alhedín, though he had won more chat, did not dare to leave when it was Dona Beatriz,
or immediately afterwards. It was, entering the general run of those
who were there until the last minute.

Conde did not speak, however,
because he was preoccupied and imaginative.

The poet, usually was
the one who made the biggest expense of words when they spoke the
Count. That night the poet was in vein. Talked a lot, say a thousand
jocosidades, they are laughing, and he was one who got drunk to talk
and to be applauded, rather than drinking wine and spirits. Arthur,
perhaps without having taken a drink to his lips, he was drunk. Aye! Chaturiká
is like a letter, smelling of the sandal of the hand that wrote it, far away. And Táráwalí
understood it all, and sent her; not being jealous, as Chaturiká says, and indeed, as she said
herself, last night. As if a star of heaven could possibly be jealous of a little Ganges pot![27]
Aye! little did my mother dream, when she sent to fetch me, what influence she had against
her. As if I would purchase any kingdom in the world at the price of sacrificing my sunset
with the Queen! And how can I help it, if the King my father chose just this unlucky astrological
conjunction, to die? Or what good can be done by haste? For if he is dead already, as is very
likely, all is lost, and it is useless to go at all. And if on the contrary, he lives for a
little longer, I shall find him still alive, if I start to-morrow. And is it likely he will
live or die exactly so, as to make my starting now either necessary or advantageous? And shall
I take the risk, and throw away the very fruit of my birth, for nothing at all? And what would
Táráwalí think of me, if I left her in the lurch, counting her inestimable favour as a straw?
Beyond all doubt, she would wipe me from her memory as a thing beneath even contempt, like
a sieve, all holes, into which it is futile to pour anything at all. No, I will keep my sunset,
even if I lose my kingdom. And yet, why should I, after all? For to-morrow when I actually
start, I will go very fast indeed, preparing everything beforehand, and having my horse waiting
for me, so as to lose no time when I leave the Queen, carrying with me as I ride the memory
of to-night: whereas if I threw her over, and set off to-night, the thought of what I was leaving
behind would be so heavy as utterly to prevent me from going along at all.

And so I mused, waiting all the time with fierce impatience for the sun to sink, till at last
day came to an end. And then I rose in delight, exclaiming: At last, at last, separation is
over, and now it is time! And I went very quickly to the palace, and found the pratihárí: and
she led me away straight to the door, and opened it, and I went in.

XV

And then, once more, I stood still, listening in ecstasy to the door as it shut behind me,
and tasting, as it were, for an instant the delicious promise that the dusky garden gave me,
standing like a diver on the edge of ocean, just before he plunges in, knowing well that it
holds a pearl. And I stretched my arms towards the trees, saying to myself: This is not like
the other times, but far, far better: for to-night she will not ask me to give her a music
lesson, but she said herself, she would be my dream. And I wonder how she will do it, and what
she is going to do. And then I went on through the trees, looking from side to side, with a
soul as it were on tiptoe with curiosity and anticipation. And far away through the trees I
saw the red rim of the full moon rising in a great hurry as if like myself he was dying with
impatience just to see her, and saying as it were: I am the only lamp fit to light her, and
I am just coming in another moment, like herself. And I passed by her swing that hung drooping,
as it were, sadly from its tree, because she was not there. And little by little, my heart
began to crave for the sight of her, growing restless and uneasy, and saying to itself with
anxiety: What if something had actually prevented her from coming, and the garden were really
as empty as it seems, and she were not here at all. And then at last I reached the terrace
by the pool, exactly where I saw her first, and looked round with eager eyes, and she was not
there. And then, just as I was on the verge of sinking into the black abyss of disappointment,
all at once she came out of the shadow of a clump of great bamboos, in which she had been hiding,
as it seemed, just to tease me into the belief she was not there, in order to intensify the
unutterable delight of her abrupt appearance. And she stood still, as if to let me look at
her, between two bamboo stems, just touching them with the very tips of the fingers of each
hand, and saying in her soft sweet voice with a smile: Was I not right in choosing this as
the only proper place for thee to meet the lady of thy dream, where we met each other first?

And I stood, confounded and as it were, dazed, by a vision so marvellously lovely that it puzzled
me, murmuring to myself: Can this be Táráwalí after all, and what has she done to herself,
for she has changed, somehow or other, into the incarnation of some deity exactly like her,
and she looks like an image of the wife of Wishnu[28] that has somehow or other come down from
its pedestal on a temple wall? For she was clothed in some strange colour that hovered between
pallid yellow and deep red, seeming to have been borrowed from the setting sun and the rising
moon. And it was all pulled forward, so that it clung somehow or other tight to her rounded
limbs, making her whole outline from head to foot look like soft marble in the moonlit dusk,
and it was collected in front into one great heavy fold that hung straight down like a red
pillar from the very middle of her small waist, ending just above her feet in great gold tassels,
that nearly touched the huge anklets of green jade with which her two little bare feet were
loaded, as if to help them to stand firm. And a soft broad band of gold ran right round her
just below her lovely breast, that lay held in its gold cup like a great double billow made
of the creamy lather of the sea, prevented from escaping as it swelled up by the delicious
dam formed by the curve of her shoulders meeting the soft bulge of the upper part of her rounded
arms, which came out from each side and seemed as it were to wave gently in the air like creeper
sprays, free and unconfined, and not like her feet, chained down, but absolutely bare of any
ornament at all. And on her hair was not a star, but a great yellow moonstone, that shone with
a dull glimmer like a rival moon of her own, and over her left shoulder a long coil of dark
hair came out from behind her head and hung down like a serpent, ending in a soft wisp like
a yak's tail that was tied round with yellow silk. And the only thing that she retained of
what she was before was the intoxicating charm of the upright poise of her whole figure, which
seemed to say to me as I saw it: I am the one thing about her which she cannot possibly hide
or alter, let her do what she will.

And she stood quite still, as I gazed at her in ecstasy, lost in the wonder of my own eyes,
looking back at me with her head just a little on one side, and her eyebrows just a very little
raised, as if with appeal, and great soft sweet caressing smiling eyes. And then, after a while,
she said, looking down: See, my feet are prisoners to-night, to do thee honour, as their lord,
and they cannot walk fast or far, but it does not matter, as they will not be wanted, for I
have a surprise coming for thee, by and by. But as to my arms, I thought it better to leave
them without the encumbrance of any ornament at all. And she waved them gently in the air,
and a little smile stole over her lips, and she said: It would only have been in the way, if
the fancy should come upon thee to say good-bye in thy own fashion. And now, it was very difficult
for me to know exactly what to do, so as to place the lady of thy dream before thee, since
thou hast never told me what she looked like in the dream. And so thou must forgive me, if
I have come in anything short of thy expectation, for I have done what I could. Art thou satisfied
with her, as she stands? For if not, I must call my soul to the assistance of its body.

And I stood, unable to speak or move, gazing at her almost in a swoon by reason of the excess
of my intoxication; and after a while, I drew a very deep sigh. And she came towards me, very
slowly, as I stood rooted to the ground; and she put up her arms, and laid one hand on each
shoulder, with a touch like the fall of a flake of snow. And she said: I know what is the matter:
thou art spellbound by a return of thy original delusion. But it will leave thee, and thy senses
will return to thee, once thou hast said good-bye. And then, seized with frenzy, I caught her
in my arms, and suddenly she prevented me from kissing her by putting her hand over my mouth.
And she said with a smile: Wait! Am I equal to Chaturiká, for as it seems, thou hast been playing
me false? And for all answer, I took her hand, and kissed it, and put it round my neck, and
then fell to kissing her in madness, continuing for I know not how long, bereft of my senses
by the perfume of her hair and the touch of her arms. And then at last, I took her face in
my hands. And I said: Away with Chaturiká! Thou knowest all, and art only jesting: and my soul
quivers in my body at the sound of thy name. And she laughed, as I kissed her very gently on
her two eyes, and she said: Perhaps I know: and yet, I will not forgive thee for Chaturiká,
but on one condition. And I said: Ask anything thou wilt: it matters not. Then she said: Look
at me very carefully, and think ere thou speakest: and tell me, exactly what it is, in me,
that chains thee so to me, which Chaturiká and others are without.

And I said: Stand still, and let me look at thee, and think. And I put her away, and stood
back, examining her very carefully just as she had wished, walking round and round her, and
saying to myself: It is absolutely useless, for I know what to say without any need of looking,
and yet I do not know if I can ever bring myself to stop, since she has given me, as if on
purpose to delight me, a task more delicious than I ever had to do before. And all the time
she stood absolutely still, patiently waiting till I ended, and looking at me every time I
came round, with raised eyebrows and a smile. And at last, I could not endure it any longer,
and I said: Ah! come back into my arms, which hunger for thee, and I will answer. And instantly,
she came and stood, listening attentively, and caressing my ear unawares, as she listened,
with her hand. And I said: Thy question is unanswerable, and my examination nothing to the
purpose: since where was the use of looking at thy lovely body to find what is only to be found
in thy soul, to which thy body owes the essence of even its own intoxication? For thy soul
peeps out, from behind it, in the poise of thy head, and the straight erectness of its carriage,
and the aroma of the royalty of sex that oozes, as it were, from its every gesture, mixed,
in some unintelligible way, with a soft grace that seems to be all its own. But the spell thou
art asking me to catch for thee looks from thy eyes, and lurks in thy lips, and murmurs in
thy marvellous voice, which was silent all the while I was considering: and it is, some naive
and submissive gentleness in the quality of thy soul, which turns all thy other perfections
into instruments of delirium, and yet notwithstanding contradicts them all. For any other woman
but thyself possessing even one of them would be proud, whereas thou dost not even seem to
be aware that there is anything about thee other than the common. And as it seems to me, it
is this, which is the core of thy irresistible fascination, giving to all thy particular elements
of loveliness a kind of salt, that mixes with their sweetness to drive me mad.

And she looked at me silently with meditative eyes; and after a while she said slowly: I wish
I were a man, only for a moment, to judge of myself and thy answer: for in one way thou art
right, since I cannot understand why all men seem to lose their reason, as soon as they see
me. And I said: There it is again, the very thing I spoke of, in thy words: and it is so simple,
and yet so indescribably delicious, that very glad indeed I am that thou art not a man, but
a woman, and that it is I that am the man. And it would be a crime in the Creator to gratify
thy wish by making thee a man, who art the very essence of all womanly perfection and attraction. A sad and unfortunate house, the house dark and gloomy, the house where
they never eat or drink! "But his departure was no return. By the afternoon so that they returned,
but was too late.

Treaty Room How Lazaro Went to a monk of the Merced, and what befell him

I had to get the room, and he was a monk of the Merced, which silly women who tell me headed, whom
they called him kin: great enemy of the choir and eating in the monastery, lost to go out,
lay amicísimo business and visit, so I think it broke he more shoes than the whole monastery. He
gave me the first shoes I broke in my life But you never lasted eight
days, and I was able to outlast his trot.

And because of this and other stuff I do not say, I left.

Fifth Treaty How Lazaro Went to a Pardoner, and the things that he spent

In the fifth by my good fortune gave, which was a Pardoner, the more brash and desvengonzado
and more caster indulgences that I ever saw or hope to see or do not think anyone saw, because
he and seeking ways and means and very crafty inventions.

In coming to a place where the bull had to submit, first presented
to the clergy or cure some things, not of much value or not: some
lettuce from Murcia, where were in season, a couple of limes or oranges,
peach, a couple of peaches, each path verdiniales pears.

ANSI tried them over because they promote their business and call his parishioners to take the
bull.

Provide him thank him, find out how well of reach. If they said they understood, spoke no Latin
word for they could not trip, but took advantage of a gentle and
well-cut desenvoltísima romance language.

And if he saw that these clerics were among the reverend say that they bought it with letters
and reverend is ordered, he turned into a St. Thomas and two hours talking in Latin, at least,
it seemed but it was not.

When they would not taking the bulls, looking for what might take them for evil, and to what
had discomfort to people and other times with crafty artifice. And because all you see would
make a long story, tell a very crafty and diverting, with which it
will prove its sufficiency.

Somewhere in the Sagra of Toledo had preached two or three days, doing his usual errands, and
had not taken bull, I could not see had any intention of taking. Was given swore up and wondering
what to do, he decided to call the people to another morning so he's bull.

And that night, after dinner, they stood to play the collation he and the constable, and the game
came to fight and have bad words. He called the constable a thief, and the other to him liar. On
this, Mr. Commissioner my lord took a pike in the door of the play
was.

The sheriff drew his sword in his side. Noise and voices and all we, guests and neighbors come
and métense in the middle, and procured them very angry rid of that half were to be killed. But as
people at all the noise the house was full of them, seeing that they could not use weapons, they
began to call injurious, including the sheriff said it was my master
forger and the bulls who preached were false.

Finally, that the people, not enough to see that putting it in peace, agreed to take the sheriff
of the inn and elsewhere.

And so my master was very angry, and after the guests and neighbors pleaded with him to forget about
it and go to sleep, he left. And so we lay all.

The next morning my master went to the church and told to ring for
mass and for fire sermon the bull.

And the people gathered, the muttering about the pardons, saying they were forgeries and that
the constable himself quarreling had discovered, so that after they had reluctantly of tomalla,
with that of all the hated.

The Lord went up to the pulpit and began his sermon, and encourage people to not remain without
the blessings and forgiveness as the holy bull brought. Being in the sermon, go by the church
door the sheriff and, after praying he got, got up and loudly and deliberate wisely began to
say:

"Good men, let me say a word, then listen to whoever you please." I came here this swindler
who preaches, who cheated and said that helped him in his business and to split the profits.
And now, seeing the damage it would do to my conscience and your
haciendas, regretting what was done, I clearly stated that the bulls
are preaching false and did not believe him nor toméis, and I'm not
direct or indirect part in them, and from agora leave the rod and
give her in the ground, and if some time it is punished for falsehood,
that ye be witnesses to me as I am not with him and I give this help,
you the truth and declare his wickedness.

"

And he finished his speech. Some honest men who were there wanted to raise and throw the constable
out of church, to avoid scandal.

But my master stopped them hand and ordered all under penalty of excommunication not in your
way, rather than let him say everything he wanted. And thus, he too was silent, while the
sheriff said everything I said.

As silent, my master asked if I wanted to say more, say it. The sheriff said:

"Fed is more to say about you and your dirty, but enough for now."

Mr. Commissioner knelt in the pulpit, and his hands and looked up to heaven said thus:

"Lord God, to Whom nothing is hidden and everything manifest, for
whom nothing is impossible, everything is possible, you know the truth
and how I have been accused unjustly.

In As for myself, I forgive you because you, Lord, forgive me. Do not look at anyone who does
not know what he says or does, but the injury done to Thee, I pray, I pray for justice and not
disregard it Because someone here, that thinking of taking this holy bull, giving credit the false words
of the man, they will not take. And it is so harmful to others, I beg you, Lord, do not disregard
it, but a miracle here, and it thus: if it is true what it says and
bring evil and falsehood, this pulpit to sink me and meta hundred
feet into the ground, where he and I ever be seen again.

And if it's true what I say, he, won over by the devil to remove
and deprive those who are present as great good, speaks evil, is also
known punished and all his malice.

"

He had hardly finished his prayer devout sir, when the black sheriff of the state falls and gives such
a blow on the ground that resounded throughout the church, and began to howl and throw foaming at
the mouth and twist it and make grimaces with the gesture, kicking and hand, rolling around
on the floor and another part. The shouts and cries of the people was so great that could not
hear each other. Some were really terrified. Some said

"The worth God help him."

Others:

"It serves him right, it stirred up such false testimony."

Finally, some who were there, and in my opinion not really afraid,
they came and locked him arms, with which he'd been thrashing those
who were near him.

Others rushed by the legs and had a hard time because there was no mule in the world so hard
Pulling kick.

And so I had a great time, because more than fifteen men were upon him, and hit them all, and if
neglected, in their noses.

By the way, my master was in the pulpit on his knees, hands and eyes
in the sky, carried in the divine essence, that the plant and noise
and voices in the church had no part in apartalle of divine contemplation.

Those good men went to him and woke him up crying and begged him aid the poor man was dying, and
not to look at things past nor to his bad, because as them had to pay, but if anything could take
that man out of danger passion and suffering, for God's sake do so, because it was obvious the
guilt of the guilty and his truth and goodness, as to your request and vengeance, the Lord did not
prolong the punishment.

Mr. Commissioner, as if waking from a sweet dream, looked and looked at the offender and all
those who were her surrounding, and very slowly he said:

"Good men, you do habíades to pray for a man in whom God has so signally noted, but as he commands
us not to return evil for evil and forgive injuries, with confidence we beg you to do what he commands
us, and His Majesty forgive it offended you by putting obstacles in their holy faith. Let's
all suplicalle. "

And so it came down the pulpit and instructed to devoutly beseeching our Lord had for good
to forgive the sinner, and get back on their health and sanity, and releasing the devil, if His
Majesty had allowed for his great sin he entered.

They all got down knees, and before the altar with the clergy began to softly chant a litany.
And coming him with the cross and holy water, having sung about him, my master, put their hands
to heaven and eyes that seemed almost nothing but a little white, begins a sentence no less
long than devout, with which he mourn all the people as often Hazer
in the sermons of Passion, a preacher and devoted audience, pleading
with our Lord, it was not the death of the sinner, but his life and
repentance, that he aimed persuaded by the devil and death and sin,
he wanted to forgive and give life and health to repent and confess
their sins.

And this fact, he ordered the bull and putting it on the head, and then the sinner of a constable
gradually began to get better and turn itself. And when he was back in his, and fell at the
foot of the Commissioner and demandóle forgiveness, and admitted that the mouth that and command
of the devil, an injury done to him anger and revenge, the other, more primary because the devil
would really be hurt the good that could be made to take the bull. Mr. My master forgave him,
and friendships were made between them, and take the bull was so haste, almost a living soul
in the place was not without it: husbands and wives, sons and daughters boys and girls.

Divulgóse the news of what happened in the neighboring towns, and when we got to them, did not give
a sermon or go to church, came to the inn to take like pears to make
themselves freely.

So in ten or twelve more of those alderredor Wherever we went, my master threw a good thousand
indulgences without preaching a sermon.

When he did the test, I confess my sin that I was also shocked and thought dello ANSI was, like
many others, but after seeing the laughter and fun that my master and the officer had and doing
business, it had all been met by the industrious and inventive my
master.

{Acaeciónos elsewhere, which I will not name in his honor, the following, and my master was
two or three sermons preached and God do the bull took. Seen by the Case my master what had happened
and that, although he said were wary of a year, and were not taking advantage as rebels take
it and that his work was lost, he rang the bells to say goodbye. And made his sermon and fired
from the pulpit, and we wanted down, called the clerk and me, who was charged with a wallet,
and Hizon reach the first step, and took the sheriff the hands that
had and had not in the bags, put them near his feet, and it became
a place in the pulpit with a happy face and throw from there, tens
and twenties in twenty of his bulls to all parties, saying:

"My brethren,
take, take of the graces God sends you to your homes, and do not hurts,
it is so pious work the redemption of Christian captives which are
land Moors.

Because they do not renege on our holy faith and go to the pains of hell, even Help them with
your charity and five paternosters and five Hail Marys, to come out of captivity. And yet also
take advantage for the parents and brothers and relatives you have in Purgatory, as you will see in this
holy bull. "

As the people saw them throw ANSI as something that was for nothing and be coming from the hand
of God, they took more take, even for children from the cradle and all its defunct, having
from children to the lowliest servant, counting on their fingers. Vimon in such haste, as I
aínas I'd just break a poor old coat he had, so that VM certify that in little more than an
hour was no bull in the panniers, and it was necessary go to the inn for more.

Finished taking all my master said from the pulpit to his clerk and
the council that rise and, to be known who were the ones to enjoy
the holy indulgences and pardons of the holy bull, and that he give
a good account of who had sent him, were written.

And then they all very willingly said they had taken, having ordered
the children and servants and the deceased.

Made his inventory, he asked the mayors to charity, because he had to do elsewhere, ordered the
clerk to give him authority to inventory and memory of those who were there, which he said the clerk,
were more than two thousand.

Done this, he was dismissed with much peace and love, and so they patros us of this place, and even
before that we left, he was asked by the curate and the aldermen if Bull profit the infants who were in
the womb, to which he replied that according to letters he had studied not, they might have to
ask doctors older than him, and that this was what I felt about this business.

ANSI E we departed, leaving all very happy with the good business. My master said to the bailiff
and clerk:

"What do you think, as these villains, that just say" old Christians are "without charities, think
to be saved without compromising any of their holdings? Well, for the life of graduate Pascasio
Gómez, which expense they'll more than ten captives. "

And thus we went to another place at that end of Toledo, to the Channel, said, where others
encounter's overwhelming to take bulls. Made my master and the others who were going our proceedings,
two parties that were there had not been thrown thirty bulls.

Seen by my master the great destruction and the great expense he
had, (and) the crafty ardideza my master had to make spent with his
bulls, was that this day DIJA high mass, and after finishing the sermon
and returned to the altar, took a cross that brought a little more
than an inch, and a brazier of fire above the altar they had, which
had brought to warm his hands because it was great cold, put him behind
the missal without anyone looking into this and there without saying
anything he put the cross above the fire.

And, because the Mass was over and tossed the blessing, he took it
with a handkerchief, tightly wrapped the cross in his right hand and
the other the bull, and so they got to the season step of the altar,
where he was kissing the cross, and beckoned them to come to worship
the cross.

And thus came the first mayor and the elders of the place, coming one to one as used. The first
that came, it was a old mayor, although he gave kiss rather delicate cross is burned their faces
and quickly took off. Seeing this my master said to him:

"Step, I am, Mr. Mayor! Miracle!"

And thus another seven or eight, and they all said:

"Step, gentlemen! Miracle!"

When he saw that the rostriquemados enough to witness the miracle,
did not want to give more to kiss.

Climbed up to the altar and said wonderful things there, saying that the low charity that
was in them had God allowed this miracle and that cross was to be taken to the holy church
of his diocese, that the little charity that the people had, the cross burning. I was so fast
that there was in taking the bull, not enough two notaries neither the clerics nor sacristanes writing.
I think certainly that took more than three thousand bulls, as I have said to VM then to leave,
he went with great reverence, as a reason, to take the Holy Cross, saying he had to do engastonar
in gold, as was fitting. He was begged much of the council and clergy of the place to leave
that holy cross there in memory of the miracle occurred there.

He in no way wanted to do and finally begged by many, was left; with
another cross that gave old woman who had old money, which can weigh
two or three pounds, they said.

And thus we departed happy with the good exchange and have negotiated
well.

In all he saw no one above except me, because I climbed the altar
to see if anything had been blisters, for putting it into recovery,
as usual I was his custom.

And there saw me, he began his finger in his mouth signaling me to shut up. I long did it because
I met, but, after I saw the miracle could not pour it out in me,
but fear of my astute master did not let me communicate with anyone,
and never left me, because I swore not discovered the miracle.

And thus I did until now}. And while a young boy, much cayóme in grace, and I said to myself:

"WITH
THESE many must these mockers on innocent people!"

Finally, I was with my fifth master about four months, which also passed {sufficient hardships,
but I was well fed at the expense of priests and other clergy would
do to preach.}

Sixth Treaty How Lazaro Went to a chaplain, and what
happened to him

Then I began, I settled with a painting master Molella
tambourines for the colors, and also I had a thousand evils.

Already at this time a good little boy, coming a day in the great church, a chaplain I got by
him, and set me on to a donkey and four pitchers and a whip, and
I began to water by the cibdad.

This was the first step I got to come to achieve good life because my mouth was measured. Given
each day to my master thirty coppers earned, and Saturday was up
to me, and everything else during the week, thirty coppers.

FUEM so well in the job that after four years I used it, to bring in profit safe place, saved
for me very honestly wear old clothes, which bought a doublet of fustian old and frayed coat with braid
on the sleeves and gate, and a cape that had been velvety, and an
old sword first de Cuellar.

Soon as he saw me dressed as a gentleman, I told my master to take his donkey, he did not want
more follow that profession.

Seventh Treaty How Lazaro Went to a sheriff, and what befell him

Dismissed the chaplain, I settled for a man of justice with a sheriff, but very short lived
with it, because it seems dangerous calling, mostly, that night we ran to me and my love with
stones and sticks a withdrawn, and my master, who waited, treated badly, but I do not hit. This
renounced the deal.

And thinking about how to live my seat would have rest and win something for old age God lit
up and get on track and profitable way, and with the help of some
friends and gentlemen, all my toil and hardships up to that time were
paid to achieve what I sought, it was a real job, seeing that no one
who prospers except those who have; in which I live today and I live
to serve God and your grace.

And it is that I have charge of pitching the wine sold in this city, and in auctions and lost,
accompanying those who suffer persecution for justice and loudly
declare their crimes: preacher, speaking in plain {, in which office
a day hanging a pickpocket in Toledo and had a good rope of straw,
I met and I realized that the sentence my blind love Escalona had
said, and regretted the poor payment I gave him so much who taught
me that, after God, he gave me to reach the state industry that now
this.}

Hame happened so well, I've used so easily, that almost all
things regarding trade go through my hand while across the city that
out wine to sell or something, if Lázaro de Tormes does not understand
it, it is of no benefit.

At this time, seeing my ability and good living, taking picture of me Mr. archpriest Sant Salvador,
my lord, servant and friend of your worship, because it proclaimed its wines wanted me to marry
her maid, and seen for myself that this person could not come but right and advantage, I resolved
to do.

And so I married her, and I've never regretted, because, besides being a good daughter and diligent,
helpful, I have in my master acipreste all favor and support. And always in the year sometimes
given in the bottom of a cargo of wheat, for the holy flesh, and when the pair of fine wheaten
loaves, leaving the old hose, and Hizon rent a house next to hers. Sunday and parties almost
always eat at home. But evil tongues, who does not miss shortage, do not let us live, saying
I do not know why, and I know why, that my wife veen go and make
bed and cooking for him.

And God help them better they are true; {although in this I've always had some time and had taken
some bad sospechuela dinners esperalla some Morning and evening until further, and I came to
my mind what I love the blind Escalona said horn being seized, even though he always think
that the devil me it brings back memories for me malcasado, and did
not take advantage} because, if not beyond it WITH THESE pay woman
teasing, my lord has promised me that I will comply.

He me talked a long day ahead of her, and said:

"Lázaro de Tormes, anyone who pays attention to such bad language,
never get ahead.

I say this because I'm not surprised if someone looking into my house to your wife and out
of here. She gets very your honor and hers, and this I promise. Therefore, do not look at
what they can say, but what you get, say to your advantage. "

"Sir," I said, I've decided to side of good. It is true that some of my friends deso have told
me something, and yet, for more than three times I have certified that before with me married,
had given birth three times, speaking with reverence of VM, because she is ahead. "

Then my wife took oaths on so much that I thought the house was caved in on us, and then volumes
to mourn and heaping curses upon those who had married with me, in that So I would be dead before
I let those words hobiera mouth. But with me on one side and my lord on the other, so we told him
and grant that stopped her crying, with oath that he never did it as I lived all of that, and I
rejoiced and there were good that she go in and out, night and day,
because I was so sure goodness.

And so we were all three in complete agreement.

Until today, nobody has ever heard us about the affair before, when some feel that means anything
of it, I cut them off and say:

"Look, if you are a friend, do not
tell me of things I regret, that I have for my friend who I Despite
it, mostly if I want to make trouble with my wife, which is the thing
in the world I I love most, and I love her more than me. And God gives
me all sorts of favors her more than I deserve; I'll swear to God
that she's as good a woman as living inside the gates of Toledo. Who
tells me otherwise, I'll kill him. "

So no one says anything to me,
and I have peace in my house.

This was the same year that our victorious
emperor in this great city of Toledo entered and held his court, and
there was great rejoicing, as you must have heard.
And I said: I have come by appointment to see the Queen. Then said the pratihárí: Thou must
come another time, for the Queen is not here.

And I stopped short, as if she had suddenly run a dagger into my heart. And I said in a low
voice: Not here? It cannot be. Thou art mistaken. And the pratihárí said: There is no mistake
at all. She is gone. And I said: Gone? Where? When? And she said: She went within this hour,
to visit her maternal uncle; for want, as I think, of something better to do. And when she
will return, I cannot say.

And then, my heart stopped. And I stood for a single instant, erect, and I turned, as if to
go away. And all at once, there came from the very middle of my heart, a cry, that tore me
as it were to pieces, and I fell in the street like a dead man.

XXI

And when I came back to myself, I looked, and saw an old man with a long white beard gazing
at me with anxiety, sitting by my bed in which I was lying, having been brought home I know
not how as I lay in a swoon. And when he saw me look at him, he began to rub his hands together,
with a little laugh. And he said: Ha! then, as it seems, after all, thy soul has returned at
last: and it was time. For it had been away so long that I was beginning to doubt whether it
had not said good-bye to thy body, for good and all. And now it has come back after all, by
the favour of Ganapati, and the help of the Ayurweda, and one of Dhanwantari's[30] most unworthy
devotees. And I said slowly: How long have I been dead? Then said that old physician: It is
now nearly sunset again, and thou hast lain there without moving ever since they brought thee
here from the street, about the time of sunset, yesterday. And now what is it, that has struck
thee down, as if by a thunderbolt? For how can the physician cure, unless the patient tells
him of his case?

And I closed my eyes for a while, as if to rest: and after a while I said: O father, there
is nothing to tell, to one of thy experience and skill: for since childhood, it happens to
me, every now and then, to fall down and lie in a trance: and when once I come back, all is
over, and I go on as before, till next time. And now there is nothing to be done, but for me
to reward thee for thy care, to which I owe my life. And though it is a thing of little or
no worth, I will count it, for thy sake, as if it were a thing of price. And I gave that old
man gold, and sent him away delighted, for all I wanted was to be rid of him as quickly as
I could, lest I should fall into a fever and begin to rave, and betray my secret against my will.

And then, for many days, I lay, living very slowly, like one in a long dream, drinking water,
and eating almost nothing, and going over in my mind every detail of my life since first I
saw the Queen. And it seemed to me, as I mused, as if I had died long ago; and everything appeared
to me like something that had happened long ago, to some other than myself. And day very slowly
followed day, and life came back to me as it were with hesitating steps, as though it knew
that it was coming to one that scarcely cared to bid it welcome. And then at last there came
a day when I looked about with curiosity to see what might be seen, and lo! there in a corner
lay my lute upon the floor.

So, after a while, I said: Lute, canst thou tell me, how it feels to be discarded? And I went
and took it up, and strung it, and began to play. And as fate would have it, there came over
the strings as I touched them a sadness like my own, that seemed to say: Come, we are fellow-sufferers,
and now let us weep together, since there is absolutely nothing else to do. And suddenly, the
lute fell from my hands of its own accord, and I fell with it upon the floor. And I wept, as
if my very soul was about to abandon my body, for sheer despair. And as I wept, I came slowly
back to the self I was before; yet so, that the half of me was left behind, and lost for ever.
And I said to myself: I have been robbed by Táráwalí of all that was worth anything in my soul,
and it only remains to consider, what is the next thing to be done.

And that very evening, I went out of my house for the first time since I fell down. And avoiding
the streets, I wandered along by bypaths, till I reached the river bank. And I hid myself in
the bushes, and lay watching the sun go down across the river, and thinking of Táráwalí and
her pool, till unawares I went to sleep. And how long I slept I know not, but I woke suddenly
in the night, roused by the voices of two that were talking close beside me, not knowing there
was anyone by, to overhear. And as I listened carelessly without curiosity, all at once there
fell on my ear the name of Narasinha.

And instantly, I crawled, like a panther, little by little, nearer to those two talkers, until
I could easily hear everything they said. And one was saying to the other: It will be very
easy, and the reward is very large. Then the other said: But why does Narasinha want to have
him slain at all? And the first voice answered: What a question! Anyone can see that thou art
a stranger to this city. Dost thou not know that he is the lover of the Queen, aye! and so,
that she is more than his life? And yet, for all that, he cannot keep her to himself, since
she is not only a Queen, and above all his controlling, but also a lady of many lovers, roaming
like a bee, from flower to flower, as she will, and yet leaving each in the lurch almost as
soon as it is tasted, being as unsteady as the flame of a lamp in the wind, and as deep and
as crooked as a river, amusing herself as if she were a female trinamani[31] by watching the
irresistible effect of her own attraction on the straws that she finds and throws away, as
soon as she has tested them, regardless of what afterwards becomes of them, since they are
then absolutely useless, resembling mere husks, whose kernel she has eaten. And if he could
bear to do without her, Narasinha would slay her out of jealousy with his own hands: but as
it is, he cannot, however much she laughs in his face. And so he repays himself by wreaking
his vengeance on her lovers, in lieu of herself: and one by one, they all pay the penalty of
their presumption, in having anything to do with her, with their lives: giving him hard work
to do, since she finds and casts off a new lover almost every day. And of all, the only one
that has escaped is Shatrunjaya, the mad player, who lost his reason altogether when he found
himself cast adrift without knowing why: and was accordingly passed over by Narasinha, as not
even needing to be killed, since he was as good as dead already, and beyond the reach of revenge.

And the second voice said: What a fool must this Shatrunjaya have been, to go mad, over such
an abhisariká as this Queen! Then said the first with emphasis: Thou art thyself the fool,
speaking at random without ever having seen her: for she is a very Shrí, laughing all the other
women to utter scorn; and small wonder that he fell a victim to such a spell, being as he is
very young. And moreover, she is the cleverest woman in the three worlds, and easily persuades
every lover that she is doing as he wishes to oblige him, and not as is really the case making
him a puppet of her own. And not one of them all ever even knows of the existence of any other
lover than himself. And Shatrunjaya is all the more to be excused, because she really took
a momentary fancy to him, and cloyed him for a day or two with nectar that soon turned poison,
as Chaturiká says.

And the second voice said: Who is Chaturiká? And the first replied: She is the niece of my
cousin on the mother's side, and she tells me all. And Táráwalí took her for a confidential
chetí on account of her cleverness and beauty: as well she might, since the little jade is
very pretty, and clever enough to be prime minister to any king. And between the two of them,
who are more than a match for any man that ever lived, Shatrunjaya had no chance at all. Little
did he know Táráwalí, thinking to keep her beauty to himself, or confine the ocean of her charms
to a tank! Poor fool! what a trick they played him! For Chaturiká says, that Táráwalí gave
another lover the very rendezvous she fixed for him, bidding her pratihárí say she was gone.
Well he might go mad, for as I think, any other man might lose his reason, to be kept standing
outside the door, while his mistress was kissing another man!

And he laughed out loud, as he ended: but I rose up from the ground, drawing my kattárí from
its sheath. And I leaped out of the bushes suddenly upon those two laughers, who took me for
a ghost in the form of the god of death. And I struck at one with the knife, and as luck would
have it, I all but severed his head from his body at a single sweep. And I turned upon the
other as he stood terror-stricken, staring at me with open mouth, and I said: Thy jest was
very good, but mine is better still. I am Shatrunjaya, and not mad after all: but thou shalt
not tell my secret to Narasinha; whom I will send after thee in good time. And I struck the
knife into his eye, so hard, that I could scarcely pull it out again by putting my foot upon
his head.

And I left them lying, and went home quickly, laughing to myself, and saying: Now they are
paid beforehand, with their work still to do, in coin very different from that of Narasinha.
And his own turn will come, by and by. And I wonder whose life I have saved, for I never caught
his name. But no matter: I have learned, what is left for me to do: and it only remains to
determine on the way. Alas! Narasinha, thy star is beginning to decline. Thou hast just lost
thy assassins, and presently I will deprive thee of Táráwalí, and last, I will rob thee of
thy life.

XXII

And then, day by day, I rose early in the morning, and ate the breakfast of a bull-elephant,
and went out into the streets, hunting, not for a forest beast, but for a human quarry. And
I roamed up and down through the city all day long, examining everything I met that had the
shape of a woman with the eye of a hunting leopard. And so I continued, day after day, without
success. And then at last, on the night of the Dipáwali, when the streets were full of people,
suddenly I saw her coming straight towards me. But she never saw me, by reason of the crowd:
and the prey is not thinking of the hunter, when the hunter is thinking of the prey. And I
hid myself in a doorway, and let her pass by; and I followed her with stealthy steps until
at last she turned away into a narrow lane that resembled the jaws of death. And I caught her
up with silent tread, and all at once I took her by the wrist as she went, with a grip like
an iron band.

And she turned and saw me, and she started, and uttered a faint cry. And instantly I said:
Cry out, even once, and I will sever thy head from its body. Make absolutely no noise, and
I will do thee absolutely no harm. But come with me, for I need thee for a little while. I
have been at pains to find thee, and now I will not let thee go. But unless thou dost exactly
as I tell thee, I will treat thee as I did thy accomplice on the river bank, a little while
ago. And she turned a little paler as she listened, understanding that I did not speak in jest.
And I said: Go on before me, in silence, to my house, for well thou art acquainted with the
way. And I will follow, just behind, and if thou makest, as thou goest, so much as a sign,
thy head will roll from its shoulders on the instant. And she bowed her head, and went. And
when we reached the door, I opened it and we went in. And I shut the door, and there was no
other light than the moonlight, which fell in a flood upon the floor. And I said: Sit there
in the moonlight, for I have something to say to thee. And she sat upon the floor, watching
me with fascination like a bird before a snake.

And I walked to and fro before her, and suddenly I stopped, and I said: Tell me, O Chaturiká,
what would the Queen say, if I told her of thy habit of babbling to thy relations of her secrets?
And for answer, Chaturiká began to sob, grovelling upon the floor at my feet. And I said: Sit
still, thou little fool, and listen: for thou shalt earn my forgiveness by doing as I bid thee:
and if not, I will save the Queen trouble by becoming thy executioner myself. To-morrow night,
I must see her in the garden as before: and it can only be by thy contrivance. And now, how
is it to be done?

And Chaturiká said, weeping: To-morrow night it cannot be, since she has given that evening
to another. And moreover, for thee every night is equally impossible, for she will not see
thee any more. And how canst thou pass the pratihárí, or enter by the door, without her permission?
And now between the Queen and thee, I am in the jaws of death. For thou wilt slay me, if I
do not find thee entrance into the garden: and she will, if I do.

And I looked at her with scrutiny and I said: I will help thee out of jeopardy. There must
be another entrance to the garden. Is there no other door? And she said unwillingly: There
is, but none can enter from without, unless he has the key, which the Queen trusts to no custody
but her own.

And I said: Then the way is found, luckily for thee: and thou art saved, since none will ever
guess thy part in the arranging for my entry, if as I imagine thou art only sufficiently adroit
to procure for me a key without her knowledge. And that I leave to thee, only be careful to
bring it in good time, before to-morrow evening. And in the meanwhile, go and tell that other
lover that the Queen has changed her mind: and put him off to any other day, it does not matter
which, seeing that it will never come at all: since for the future, I am going to be the only
lover of the Queen.

And then, Chaturiká looked at me in such amazement that it deprived her for an instant of her
terror, and suddenly she began to laugh. And I stooped and lifted her, and whirled her in the
air, and stood her breathless on her feet. And I took her two hands and held them tight, and
I said: Dost thou feel what thou art in hands like mine, a feather, and a nothing, and a straw?
Now listen and be wise. Stand out of the way, between the Queen and me, for we shall crush
thee, and the battle is one that I mean to win. And now I am going to show her something that
she never saw before, the strength of a man: for a woman presumes, forgetting altogether that
she owes all to the forbearance of one who can sweep her away if he chooses, like a wild elephant
snapping a twig. And if anything goes amiss by any treachery of thine, I will break thee in
pieces with my bare hands, hide where thou wilt, making it unnecessary even to betray thee
to the Queen. And now, what have I ordered thee to do?

And Chaturiká said humbly, quivering like a wild heifer that is suddenly tamed by the sound
of a tiger's roar: To put off a lover and bring thee a key.

And I said: Thou hast still forgotten the thing without which both are useless, and that is,
to show me the outside of the door to be opened by the key. And that thou shalt do at once.
Go out now, and walk without stopping straight to the door: and I will follow in thy steps.
And do not look back, until thou art standing just beside it, and then turn for a single instant,
and meet my eye without a sign. And then begone where thou wilt until to-morrow. 

Beatriz said as he was, nevertheless, a certain penalty for the departure of her husband did not
want go to the gathering that night, but Inesita behind it, said there was no reason not to do
so all other nights, and after her sister did it was as usual.

The old loves the priest who accompanied them was when they were alone and on foot to socialize
without Don Braulio accompany them. That night the housekeeper also accompanied them. When they
arrived to socialize, it was already the Count of Alhedín, who from day to day was over neglected
their other social gatherings and entertainment, and going early
and not miss a single night Rosita's house.

XIX

On the third day after the departure of Don Braulio, Paco Ramírez received a letter from Madrid.
The view of the address, whose letter acknowledged the point, filled with joy, mixed with some
concern and surprise.

The letter was from Dona Beatriz, who, not for lack of affection,
but because of neglect, had not writing ever since the place was gone.

Don Braulio was the one who always wrote Paco and gave him news of
the health of all.

- What will happen?

What novelty is this? - Thought Paco -. Is he sick Braulio? Why Beatriz what I write?

Startled by such ideas, run opened the letter and read as follows:

"Dear
Paco: Even though I got mad because you call Braulio with much mystery,
pulling my side, all forgive you if you fill me soon and let him free
so that it becomes with his little wife, who does not live at home
without him.

»About forgiveness, you have my gratitude, if more of returning it as soon as possible I take
away, and you give me mimas you as he deserves, as long as there
to stay.

"Look, Braulio is very delicate health. Not weary leading him to hunt. Try it take care, because
it is so neglected.

"We, Ines and I are in Madrid hilarious. Every night we go gathering Rosita's house, the daughter
of Villabermeja clerk, who is now a countess, and one of the Elegant higher court. In his home
are not so common, more women than we, but are instead many of the most distinguished men of
letters, weapons and political. Is there the utmost cordiality. Seem all close friends and loving.
However, few days ago, two of the commentators had a duel, and one of them was injured. Fortunately,
the wound was very light. I could not find the cause of this duel. All I have said has been
for a trifle. I've felt much, because the match was between my two commentators favorite. It's a
poet, whose verses sound, religious, sentimental, touch me and very little fun, but in prose
is a knave very pleasant and nice guy in the background. The other is the flower of the principal
gentlemen: discreet, polite, funny and with a peak gold to entertain
women and around the world when in the mood and starts to chat.

The Condesito this because it is a little Count, I have love.

He loves me well, I flatter; yes, it is a flatterer and a liar of the first force, but I, although
I recognize their treacherous flattery and lies, let me be captivated
by them.

So we are good friends.

"Ines is always in the clouds, dreamy and
distracted, but good health.

'In short, it was really bad despite
what little we have to live in Madrid, where everything is expensive.

"Now
is when I feel the first argument since I'm here.

And suddenly I heard loud laughter, like an echo to my words. And I looked up, and lo! there
was Haridása, standing in the open door. And he said: What is this, O Shatrunjaya? Whom art
thou about to poison, or who is going to poison thee? And hast thou solved thy problem, since
I saw thee from the camel's back, pondering on thy own beauty? Or hast thou arrived already
at the poison in the bottom of love's cup? How is good advice thrown away upon a fool! Did
I not warn thee? Wilt thou never understand that the nectar of a woman is like the red of dusk,
lasting for but an instant, and like the cream of milk, turning sour if it is kept, and like
foam of the sea, which exists only during agitation, melting away into bitterness and ordinary
water as soon as it is still? As indeed every woman well knows, without needing to be told,
and therefore it is that she is nectar always to a stranger, and insipid, even when she is
not very disagreeable, to her friends, losing her fascination, like the thirst of the antelope[32]
on Marusthalí, for all that approach her too near: since all her delusion depends upon her
distance, and vanishes altogether by proximity. Keep her always at a distance, O Shatrunjaya,
if thou art anxious to remain under the spell.

And I said: Haridása, I am only a fool, as thou sayest, but thou art wise. And now, wilt thou
serve me at a pinch, by something more than good advice? And he said: By what? Then I said:
To-night, I have business that I cannot avoid, and yet I cannot go out, unless I can find one
whom I can absolutely trust to remain here till morning in my place, to guard a deposit. And
so, wilt thou be my guard? And Haridása said: I cannot refuse, if thy need be extreme. For
men to be absolutely trusted are very rare, and I am one. And is thy deposit large? And I laughed,
and I said: Nay, on the contrary, it is very small. And it will be here in another moment,
for I have been waiting for it all day long. And as I spoke, lo! Chaturiká appeared in the
door, as if by a toss of the curtain,[33] And I said to Haridása: Here it is.

And seeing that I was not alone, Chaturiká turned, as if to go away. And I called out to her,
saying: Wait but for a single instant, O thou destitute of patience, and give me back my key
that I gave thee last night, since I am in sore need of it. And then she came to me in silence
and gave me a key. And I said: Hast thou put off the petitioner as I desired, to another day?
And she said: Yes. And then I went to the door, and shut it. And I said to Haridása: I have
an appointment, with one who may be friend or foe, for I cannot tell. But here is a hostage,
that I leave behind me. Keep her for me, and never take thy eyes off her, and give her back
to me, safe and sound, on my return. But if the sun rises to-morrow, and I am not here, cut
her head off, for she will have led me into a trap, all unaware that she was setting it for
herself as well.

And Haridása looked thoughtfully at Chaturiká as she stood aghast, rubbing his chin with his
hand. And he said slowly: It would be a great pity, my pretty maiden, if he came late, for
thy head looks very well as it is on thy little body, which without it would look as melancholy
as a palm broken short off by the wind.[34] And yet, do not weep. For Shatrunjaya is a bad
judge of men and women, and I am a very good one. And if, as I think, he is altogether wronging
thee by his suspicion, thou hast absolutely nothing to fear from me, and I will be thy father
and thy mother till he returns to free thee in the morning. So dry thy tears, and I will return
to thee in a moment to make thee laugh.

And he led me away out at the door, and shut it behind him. And he said: Shall I tell thee
the name of thy very pretty deposit? Dost thou think I do not know what thou art endeavouring
so clumsily to hide? Nectar when she turns towards thee: poison when she turns away?

And as I started, staring at him in stupefaction, he said with a laugh: Ha! thou hast heard
it before? Didst thou not betray to me thy secret unawares, repeating it before? What! dost
thou not know, it is the Queen's verse, which all the people in the city sing of every man
who dooms himself by becoming the Queen's lover? I could have told thee, even without seeing
Chaturiká at all, that it was Táráwalí herself who was thy nectar, and is going to be thy poison;
and well I understand who is the friend or foe to whom thou art just about to go. It is the Queen.

And he took me by both hands, and looked straight into my eyes. And he said: Fool! and art
thou actually hoping still for the nectar that is gone? Thy hope will be in vain. I told thee,
without naming her, to hold her very cheap, if ever thou wouldst have her hold thee dear. It
was useless to restrain thee, for thou wouldst not have believed me, no matter what I said.
There was but a single chance. For the moment that she sees that her fascination works, and
that her lover lies gazing without reason or senses at her terrible beauty, she is satisfied,
and throws him away: whereas had he only the strength to resist it, she might against her will
fall in love with him herself for sheer exasperation at her impotence, in his case alone. But
she swept thee clean away like a straw in a flood, and thou art lost. Thou hast been playing
unaware with a queen-cobra, that has smitten thy soul with the poisonous fascination of its
magnificent hood and its deadly eyes, and bitten thy heart with its venomed fang; and now all
remedies are worse than useless, and come too late. I can see death written on thy brow, and
almost smell its odour in the air. Beware of Narasinha!

And he went in, and shut the door upon himself and Chaturiká, leaving me alone in the street.

XXIV

And I stood in the street, staring at the door as it shut behind him, as motionless as a tree.
And I murmured to myself: Nectar when she turns towards thee: poison when she turns away! So
then, it is the Queen's verse, sung of others and sung of me! And this was the meaning all
the time! And this is what Chaturiká was thinking of, every time she said it, laughing at me
in her sleeve, as beyond a doubt she has laughed at many another man before! And this is what
the people say! And all the time I thought myself exceptional, I was only being made a fool,
and one of a large number, and a laughing-stock for the whole city, and branded, as it were,
with ridicule and ignominy as a plaything of the Queen, and going about unconsciously with
her label round my neck: Nectar when she turns towards thee: poison when she turns away!

And suddenly, rage rushed into my heart in such a flood that it felt as if it were about to
burst. And from motionless that I was, I began all at once to run in the direction of the palace,
as though about to wreak my vengeance on the Queen without waiting for a single instant. And
then I stopped abruptly and began to laugh. And I exclaimed: Am I actually going mad, for as
yet it is still day, and I cannot even get into the garden till the sun has set. And after
thinking for a moment, I went away to the river bank to wait till the sun was down. And there
I threw myself down at full length upon the ground, with my chin upon my hands.

And then, strange! as I lay, little by little my heart began to cool, and all its fury ebbed
gradually away. For as I thought of Táráwalí, it seemed as it were to say to me: I cannot find
room, on second thoughts, for any rage at all, since I belong absolutely to the Queen. And
all my rage turned slowly into such unutterable longing that her image seemed to grow dim,
seen through the mist of eyes that were suffused with tears, as recollection brought her back
to me saying: This is how she looked when she saw thee first, and this again, is how she lay
in the swing, and this again, when she stood up before thee, as a chetí, in the moonlit boat.
And I exclaimed in desperation: Alas! O Táráwalí, must I then condemn thee, whether I will
or no? For they all say the same of thee, and as it might seem, it must be true, and yet no
matter, for I absolutely cannot either hate thee or believe them, when I think of thee as I
saw thee myself. And my heart laughs in scorn at all the efforts of my reason, never wavering
for an instant from thy side, like an incorruptible ally, that cannot be induced by any bribe
whatever to abandon its allegiance. Aye! would she but open her arms to me again, I should
forget everything else in the three worlds, to snatch her in my own. How is it possible to
hate her? And beyond all doubt, that rascal I slew hit the mark, when he said that Narasinha
cannot quarrel with her, being utterly unable to do without her, disarmed in all his attempts
to oppose her by his own conviction that she is absolutely indispensable to his own life. For
she may have deserved ten thousand deaths, and yet what does it matter, if for all that she
is a thing that once lost or destroyed can never be replaced, as indeed she is, resembling
the Kaustubha,[35] or the third eye of the Moony-crested god, of which in the three worlds
there is only one. And so since he cannot do without her, she is beyond all reach, and invulnerable,
doing with impunity exactly what she pleases, caring nothing whether he loves or hates her,
and laughing at the very notion of being brought to book, secure in the magic circle of her
own irresistible attraction, whose very power of destroying all others is her own protection,
like a spell with a double edge, such that, as that rascal said, she cannot refrain from amusing
herself by trying its effect on all.

And who could find it in his heart to blame her for delighting in the exercise of her own spell,
like a child rejoicing in its toy, aye! even were he himself its victim, as its effect would
be the same, no matter what she did, seeing that she must attract whether she will or no? Being
what she is, she cannot help it: it is involuntary and beyond her control. And alas! I fell
before it without a shadow of resistance, enslaved even before I saw it by her own dream, not
even affording her the pleasure of watching her fascination gradually overcoming opposition,
and asserting its power, and subduing me to her domination, against my will. And so I became
a thing of no value to her at all, since in my case there was nothing to overcome. Ah! had
I only been capable of seeming to be one on whom her charm would not work, then indeed, as
Haridása says, I might have prevailed: and she might herself have fallen victim to the man
who defied her fascination and laughed in her face, out of pique and irritation at her own
impotence. And all the more, if what that rascal said have any truth, that she actually took
a momentary fancy to me, strange as it seems. But alas! as he said, it is all too late.

And suddenly I started to my feet with a beating heart. And I exclaimed: Too late! But what
if it were not too late, after all?

And as I stood, thinking of it, struck into sudden agitation by my own idea, hope glimmered
in the darkness of my soul like the first faint streak of rosy dawn at the end of a black night.
And the dream of the bare possibility of bringing back Táráwalí with all her old intoxicating
sweetness almost took away my breath. And after a while, I said to myself: Yes, indeed, he
actually said, that she took a fancy to me, even though it were only for a moment. And how
could he have known it, if she had not herself confessed it to Chaturiká, from whom alone he
could have heard it, since very certainly he never learned it from Táráwalí herself? Aye! and
was not Chaturiká herself far sweeter at the beginning, just as if she knew I was no ordinary
lover, but one with a little foothold in the Queen's heart? And if, then, I was ever there,
why could I not return? And if her fancy has gone to sleep, could I not awake it? Can it be
already so absolutely dead as never to revive, with not a single spark among the ashes to be
refanned into a flame? How would it be, could I but manage to persuade her she was utterly
mistaken, in supposing that I was only a miserable victim of her spell? How, if I could convince
her that I valued all her fascinations at a straw? Would she not at least be tempted to try
them all on me again, if only to test them and discover whether I was lying or in very truth
proof against all the power of her charm? And if only she did, what then? For once she began,
it would all depend on me, whether she ever stopped any more.

And all at once, I uttered a shout of hope and exultation and excitement, suddenly taking fire
at the picture painted by my own craving imagination. And I exclaimed: Ha! who knows? And at
least, I can try. And even if I fail, it cannot possibly be worse than it is already, drowned
as I am in misery without her: whereas, if I could succeed! Ah! I would barter even emancipation
for a single kiss! And O that my courage may not fail, turning coward at the very first sight
of her again! For the struggle to appear indifferent, in such an ocean of rapture, will be
terrible indeed, since even now, the very thought of it makes me tremble, being enough to make
me fall weeping at her feet. And now the sun is setting, and it is time to go: and in a very
little while, fate will decide, whether she and I are to die or live. For I cannot live without
her, and unless she will allow me to live with her, she shall not live at all, either alone,
or with anybody else. For she will kill me, by driving me away, and I will take her with me,
if I am to die.

XXV

And then I went away with rapid steps, all through the city, till I reached the little ruined
temple, that stood exactly opposite the door that Chaturiká had shown me the night before.
And I hid myself behind the image of the Moony-crested god, and watching my opportunity that
none should see me, all at once I crossed the street and tried the key in the door, almost
shaking with anxiety, lest after all she had played me false, by giving me at haphazard some
key that would not fit. But O joy! the key turned, and the door opened, and I went through.
And very carefully I closed it again, and then, first of all, I hid the key in a hole in the
wall, making sure of my return. And then I drew a deep sigh, almost unable to believe myself
once more in that garden which held Táráwalí hidden somewhere in its dark recesses. And I said
to myself, with emotion: Ah! now, come what may, at least I shall look upon her again, and
very soon. And even for that alone, I am ready to die. And it may very well be that death is
close at hand. For if Chaturiká is in the pay of Narasinha, as she very well may be, and has
betrayed me, I may be walking straight into a trap. For his assassins may be posted in the
trees in almost any number. And little should I care to die, so long as they only slew me on
my return; but I am terribly afraid of being slain before I see her. For then indeed I should
suffer the agony of a double death.

And I went on slowly in the shadow of the trees, guessing my direction, for I was going by
a way I did not know, fearing not at all the death that might suddenly spring out upon me,
but dreading far more than death the possibility of its anticipating my discovery of the Queen.
And little by little, as nothing happened, I forgot my fears, saying to myself: To-morrow I
will give Chaturiká anything in the world, and beg her pardon for suspecting her of breaking
faith. But in the meantime, I must above all manage to come upon Táráwalí unawares, and escape
her observation until I catch sight of her myself: for if she saw me first, she might hide,
or even go away altogether, leaving me to look for her in vain, and making all assassination
superfluous, since if I do not find her I shall simply die of my own accord, long before morning,
of disappointment and despair. And so I went on very slowly, making absolutely no noise, like
a Shabara stalking a wild elephant in the forest, dying of expectation, and yet not daring
to make haste, for fear of losing all: until at last, after a very long time, I came to the
terrace by the pool once more. And then I looked, and suddenly I caught sight of her, standing
alone, like a pillar, on the very verge of the terrace steps.

And I stopped short in the shadow of a tree, to watch her for a little and master my emotion,
holding my breath, and lost, not only in the ecstasy of being close to her again, but in sheer
admiration of the wonder that I saw. For she was dressed as it seemed all in silver gauze,
looking ashy pale in the moonlight, and she was standing absolutely straight up, with her two
hands clasped behind her head, turning half towards me, so that I could just see her dark hair
between her two bent arms, lit up not by a star, but a diadem like a young moon, that shone
all yellow as if made by a row of topaz suns, so that she looked like a feminine incarnation
of the Moony-crested god, smeared with silver sheen instead of ashes. Not expressed even more excitement or
concerns before, just took it off when I went to use it in the game. What will this be? Miguel
asked all confused. Will this girl and such malice? Is it pure innocence? While hinting experience
first, an inner voice told him otherwise; and following it, was satisfied with tender caress and
nobly so that hand gave him candidly. The gathering broke up at last, and our young man was
puzzled and thoughtful to bed, intending to follow closely in the days Maximina.

XII

The first thing the next day morning was a message to Lucia.

"I have been here yesterday afternoon. Tell me how I get ready to see you. "He left home and
went in search of Ursula the boatmen.

So he asked her.

- Do you know the lady of General Bembo?

- Go!

- Then you will take
this letter now.

Wait reply and come away. In the I wait for spring.

Boatman took the oars, crossed the bay, tied the boat and disappeared there between trees. While
tornado with the answer, our young man was on a visit to Captain steam and the pilot of the peteneras.

Ursula
was not long in appearing again in a hurry paddling: Miguel standing
in the road so set foot on their land and received a ticket scented
hands had gotten into the breast.

So the bill said:

"Dear me: A sweet and mysterious concern last night my heart felt announced no doubt you were
near me. We can not see us as before, because Carmen has been in Madrid and I have no confidence
in the servants. It states that your letters be secret. The girl that carries it is faithful and
quiet: you can bring in your boat at ten in the evening. Entering it should light a match,
when you are in the middle of the bay another, and another at last ground when you jump on
this side. Each of these matches will answer me with same signal from the viewpoint of home.
We will meet with the garden wall.

Prudence and discretion.

Do not miss.

Yours until death,

ALFREDO.

"

In reading the letter could not help smiling, saying to herself: -
When you end this woman's adventures mania! - Concertose after the
boatman for dispatch night and said goodbye to her very quietly recommending.

When

he came back into the room found it to Maxi, who was finishing fix it, and his cousin Adolf,
a thirteen to fourteen years with big cheeks, short and spiky hair and eyes full of meat,
wild and shameless. For some words failed to see from the hallway knew he had brawl between the
two cousins and guessed the cause. Adolfo was browsing through the guest's luggage and Maximina
opposed it. When our young man entered, both were surprised, amid Maximina room with a broom
in hand smiling, leaning on a comfortable Adolfo staring grimly.

- Oh, what a worker is Maximina! - Miguel said approaching her without regard to any Adolfo,
who had been unfriendly.

In the light of day might appreciate its shape. It was a dark pink paler than the small nose,
fresh mouth, head and forehead well shaped, brown hair and hazel eyes, neither large nor small,
lower than high, and big meat Apretadita of ways, revealing their great strength into muscle
movements. No one could call beautiful this girl with justice, and yet humble and innocent expression
of his eyes, constant smile twitched her lips, made her highly sympathetic. Her dress clear
calico with a pink scarf that covered his chest and part of the back. On hearing the cry of Miguel,
he answered with another:

- A lot, yes!

- You bet.

So early, and already I have V. arranged the room.

- Toma, because he has sent my mother! - Adolfo said from a corner,
with a desire to mortify her cousin, but she replied quite naturally:

-
It's true, I has sent my aunt in V. left.

- And you do so prontito
what they send you like her? - Miguel said turning to the boy .--
So and you will be wise, for sure your parents send you study every
day.

Adolfo gave him a suspicious look and dropped his eyes without answering.

-
I took a spin around the village - followed Maximina addressing the
young - and then I Juanito on steam.

- The town is ugly - it .--
That answered all outsiders say ...

- And V. not say so?

- To me
is like a town than another.

- Is not gonna V. occasionally to San
Sebastian?

- Almost never.

My aunt takes me when to bring some order, but round by round.

A Once I took my father (God rest his soul) to Bilbao to spend a
few days ... If I knew V. what he wants to come back!

- What then?

-
I was tired of walking from one place to another ... the theater ...
to walk ... to shops ... I was very sore feet.

They said it was because I was not used.

- She said her aunt who
has been V. educated in a school ...

- Yes, sir, two years in a convent
Vergara ...

- And he liked to V. be there?

- Very.

I've never been as happy as ever.

- So you would willingly V. with the nuns?

- Oh, indeed!

- She wants to return and become a nun ... but lacks
mortis - said his cousin animal raw back into the conversation.

Gross output very indignant that Michael, who led the little boy a
look of contempt.

Maxi had gone slightly red.

- Do not believe V. .. Yes, I would return, but causing no harm to
anyone.

I understand that now, while girls are not old, my aunt needs me
...

- What is unusual in that V. I want? - Miguel said softly .--
That is not proof having V. a grateful heart and pious.

Maxi then blushed to the ears.

Adolfo, who certainly did not seem right that praise and wanted by all means vent his resentment,
he said, smiling stupidly

- It's a Beaton! Spend their lives eating the saints.

- Well now was not eating the saints but sweeping - said Michel.

-
It has been in the church communicant Thursday and Sunday and bring
a rope attached to the body.

Want V. see?

And the great barbarian was entitled to his cousin, no doubt intending
to open the dress.

- Be still, Adolfo! - Said it, scared, nervous.

But Adolfo ignored and came to lay hands on it.

Then the girl, with a force surprised to Miguel, he refused to shake
making.

Adolfo resumed the grossly laughing.

- Adolfo, I call my aunt! - Maxi shouted, red as a cherry and saltándosele
tears and again he turned briskly.

- You do not do, boy - Miguel
said trying to intervene.

But Adolfo, irritated by the superior muscle of his cousin, had grabbed
her and struggled to open her dress, but without result.

Miguel wrested by force and I stood at the door of the room saying:

- It could be your parents give you a little better education!

When he returned to Maxi, found her sobbing, covering her face with
her hands.

- Come, Maxi, serénese V. ... it already happened.

But Adolfo, from the hallway, began yelling:

- Let him depart, to leave the hypocrite ... I will not leave here until we stoke a few cones.

The
voices and noise was just made, rose Dona Rosalia asking angrily:

-
But what is this?

What happens here?

- No, ma'am - Miguel answered, - that boy wanted to open up the Maxi
dress for teach a rope says it brings.

- No, mother - Adolf shouted,
- is that she hit me because I called Beaton.

- Shut up, vicious
- the mother said angrily, while applying a superb slap that flushed
cheek.

Adolfo began to cry out to the true God. Then Dona Rosalia certainly be sorry hurt your child,
Maxi stirred furious.

- Good hipocritilla you too!

Do comedy and whine until they get I hit him ...

To that injustice, the poor girl was as stunned for a moment, in his
face broken you guessed the efforts he made to not break to mourn
aloud.

She let out a sob drowned, put his hand on his heart and ran from the room.

- Come, to shut himself into his room, as always - Dona Rosalia said, smiling wryly.

However, as became clear that Michael did not approve of his conduct and his own conscience either,
endeavored to show that Adolfo was a stunning boy, but an excellent
background, that Maxi was very sensitive, who could not take a joke
and treat it as his cousin was ... a child.

Finally, there went with him stroking and promising many things to to calm down. Miguel was sadly
impressed by this scene.

He spent the day wandering from one side to another, read a little, wrote another while, at last
night came. After they had eaten and been half an hour to locuacísima hostess, was ready to go
a romantic date he had given the General's. While riding down the street in search of stone
staircase where Ursula had been waiting, I could not help laughing at the love Lucia professed
that mystery.

After all, he may be right, he concluded by say; if not for these
peppercorns thrown on our relationships, the truth is that would become
very annoying.

Ursula found sitting on the steps dozing.

Feeling its steps stood up strongly.

- Is V., sir?

- I am: do you have there the boat?

- I have it where you always tied to suspect not. I'll get away.

The boatman came down to the shore and she was touching the water to disappear entirely silhouette of
sight of our young. Few minutes it took to hear the splash of oars and receive the bulk of the boat.
So I ran aground, was quick to jump on it, but before that it put an Ursula again afloat and
away from the shore, took care to remove a match and keep it on until it ended. At the same
time came another light yonder on the dark mass of trees on the opposite shore. The boatman started
to handle the oars trying not to make noise. The village of Pasajes
rested.

In vessels habíanse anchored in the bay off and the stove, and the
crew carelessly handed sleep.

The night was overcast and mild. Although accustomed to the nocturnal
rendezvous and secret of now, original, got interested in our young.

Not a little contributed to this also did not see her lover was already about a month. The
separation was cooled a bit the memory of their fortunes, which had
recently lost it quite attractive.

On reaching the middle of the bay, Ursula said:

- We are half way, sir.

Miguel got up, lit another match and kept him alive as long as it
lasted.

- Do you know V., sir - I said Ursula, - if there are any
out there sailing, and we observed no know what to think of us?

-
Will think that we are engaged, and what is wrong with this?

- To
V. None.

To me, good I would!

At that moment another light came on land, but no longer on the trees,
but lower.

- V. Look, look at V. the fluorescent! - Malicious accent
exclaimed.

- Row, row, to see if we came early to the bank - said
Miguel.

A clarion call was heard in the silence of the night, clear, loud,
from the width.

- What is that? - The young man asked, amazed.

-
I do not know - said the boatman with no less awe.

Another answer to the first touch from the opposite shore.

Voices were heard after the control and noise race-crossing.

- Boga,
boga quickly, to see what the hell does that bustle - Miguel said.

Ursula obeyed, and did not take many minutes to get close to land. But the jump in it our youth,
a group of six or seven soldiers advanced toward him, putting his
mouth of guns on the chest.

- Taking prisoners around the world.

Miguel was shocked.

- But why ...

- Let's see - said the sergeant, without answering - one of you to register the boat, and you
two getting down there among the trees and pilladme accomplices.

- What is it, gentlemen? - Miguel asked, trying to calm and soothe the police (Because those
soldiers were police).

- I know V. in jail - said the sergeant.

I knew before, fortunately. The police, seeing those mysterious signs made from answered the
bay and on land, they figured it was a cache of contraband, and promoted all the commotion. Miguel
made great efforts to convince them not had such a thing, he was taking a walk for pleasure and
nothing else. After half an hour discussion, the sergeant had to
give evidence because there was no reason to confirm their suspicions.

The young man told him that Madrid had arrived the previous day in the steam Carmen, who was there,
and whose captain could ask if it was true what they say, that was staying at the house of D. Valentín
Vázquez, etc., Etc. After much hesitation, Sergeant allowed to go home, albeit accompanied
by a policeman to find out whether indeed staying at the inn he said.

XIII

Irritated by this ridiculous and dangerous adventure, appeared the next day at home overall,
without taking any precaution, and said he would not hear of appointments mysterious. Lucia,
who the previous night he had waited in vain, extremely mourned of his accident, could not
help but laugh at hearing him tell. Since then they were all the days when it pleased him
that Miguel visit the hotel's D. Paul Bembo.

The time left him free visits aprovechábalo for trips to San Sebastian work for the newspaper or
go fishing with their host. This D. Valentine, former captain of The Fast, brig round that
made the career of Havana, was a pretty original. Would at most fifty years, was tall and lean, of
a hardy, if not rheumatism were long periods that troubled him much, spent long hair and beard, and
gray, in the form of pan. In his life he had seen Miguel, or see thought, man quieter, was a portion
of days without hear the metal of the voice when he stumbled on the
street or at home, the ocean was taking his hat and growled something
to be "Good morning" or "good afternoon" judging by hypothesis.

At home never heard him ask or order anything, like a shadow when entering or leaving or sitting
at the table to eat. With Maximina his wife and, more was understood through gestures than words,
and their needs were not very complicated, there could scarcely have you ever met. If not rheumatism
was bedridden, was leaving, nearly every day, fishing in a boat of your property: hours and
hours spent his ex-captain anchored near the shore, still, the gear in hand, leaving roasted by
the sun and whipping through the air. A force of no more than relations with fish was identified by
its nature cold and silent grave, was a veritable dervish the sea, whose only desire seemed
to be to penetrate deeper into this element and melt and after it dissolved as a salt lick. Moreover,
in the village was considered as a good neighbor and very smart sailor.

This man, who crossed the world in sneakers, was the constant companion Miguel their boat trips.
Course, spoke little, almost nothing, but our young man had believed to understand gestures,
grunts, rather than words, it was nice to D. Valentine which could be attributed to the fans
that showed fishing. Especially since some day which engaged (pure coincidence) and got a great
robaliza put it on board, and former captain saved him, though tacit high regard. Furthermore, also
guessed that the ex-captain professed affection for his niece Maximina
vivid, well-paid by the latter: both understood admirably, with just
looking, and all tests were taxed affection could.

I say could, because Dona Rosalia was aware of this love and showed
no very determined to encourage trends.

For all that Michael was shaking his friendship with him. Maximina every day showing his eyes more sympathetic
and interesting. Candid and sincere people have the advantage of not repeated. So, without suspecting
that she could at the same time he opened his soul to look at it
sank, was captivating of her young guest, in terms the latter came
to annoy everyone in the house if they were not Maximina and uncle.

He spoke with former spend time taking advantage of the moments in which she had set up his room.

-
Is V. busy, D. Miguel?

- I'm going to leave the task.

And as he left the room and he began to asearlo Maximina, chatting
happily.

Miguel's teasing the convent she had defended then denying intention of closing in it. However,
through these negative transpired that perhaps over time came to do so. One day he said getting serious:

-
I am not a supporter of the monasteries. The most beautiful virtues of the Christian religion,
which are charity and sacrifice for others, can not be done but in the midst of society. What are
all a girl comes to acquire if they are to be enclosed four walls, if the world has not ever
take advantage of them? The only nuns who I respect and admire with all my heart are the sisters
of charity.

Maxi looked surprised and said nothing. The whole day was a bit pensive.

Used to gather daily at the time of dusk in front of some young tobacconist
but not in such numbers as Sunday.

The nights were quiet and warm, and conversation sometimes dragged
on until half past nine or ten.

Miguel became used to assist her, leaving the General's visits to
other times.

Often would sit next to Maxi and was pleased to give him the ear. If we asked if they believed
what I was saying, we would be almost impossible to answer.

All we can say is that not woo for fun, even just for fun: it is
possible that by dint of being sympathetic, the finding was beautiful.

But Maximina was so convinced otherwise, rejecting the blandishments of young with so much harder the
more pleasant it would be his company. One night I said supplicating accent:

- By God, do not tell me V. I'm pretty.

- Why?

- Because I figure that is V. making fun of me and makes me very sad ...

- Although V. was not, to me it seems, and this would be sufficient,
but since V. angry, the only nice call.

- Nor.

    Do not call me V. nothing.
      
      

The other girls were there, all older than Maxi, I threw penetrating glances and began to murmur
about the persistence with which the young stranger sitting next to former. The games that
were killed in that meeting time outdoors, were little varied: hide an object so that one might
find, while others sang, sometimes smooth and other strong, as he walked away and approached him,
guess who was the person whose portrait drawing of speech were these:
to run the rope finial .... This game was the top finial pleased to
Michael, for he retained a lifelong memory lively and enjoyable.

Was to introduce a ring with a rope and hold on to it all pundits forming a circle, one is left
in the half, and the other ran the ring slyly shouting

The finial is in the hand. Follow the rosette. Follow the rosette.

The Coryphaeus made a sign: the choir was silent and still, if he guessed who had the ring,
it passed the center of the circle, and one took his place, otherwise
go again finial his career.

Our youth enjoyed this game, because he was carrying children, and perhaps also to shake hands
because he felt the contact of the status quo. Many times laughed thinking: If the Earl of Rivers
saw me playing the finial!

The next Sunday we danced, as the day he came into Maxi had promised on the floor when she
danced. The girl, relying on this promise, he decided to do this, but Guest did not keep your word,
and sat in front of the tobacconist as simple viewer. Maximina poor, disappointed, sad eyes looked
at him, leaving guess what boring without him was there.

- Listen, Lolita - said the young man calling a small Dona Rosalia - go tell Maximina that as
dark a little longer dance.

Maximina, upon receiving the news was happy.

And indeed, when the shadows of the night invaded the square, safe
and not to draw attention to the stranger ventured to take part in
the dance.

Not everything was loose and airy as would be hoped, therefore had
to hear some suppressed laughter, but took them with patience, and
within minutes and he paid no attention to anyone ... Maximina anyone
else, he said quietly: - "Lift V. more arms .»--« V. Do not jump so
much.

"Councils all very timely, that the young man was following to the
letter.

The girl was happy, satisfied: Miguel her to dance more often than
the others, then tried to stand by your side to have it hand in hand,
which pleased to gently squeeze and caress.

After dancing facing each other, young people were in the habit of embracing a moment at the
end.

Miguel, using one of these hugs, and for the darkness, grabbed Maximina braid that hung in the
back with a silk bow on top, and his lips.

- What does V.? - Said the girl turned quickly.

- Kissing the braid of her hair.

- Why does V. that? - asked in surprise.

- Because I like.

Maxi looked down and was silent.

Soon after, the son of Brigadier
wanted to kiss his hand, but the girl came down with force without
letting go, and it was not possible.

Maximina, since then the dance
broke up, there was a little more circumspect, even though they remain
attentive to her friend. Upon completion and young people come to
their usual meeting, said it hurt a little head, and instead of staying
in the party, withdrew. Miguel thought, in view of this, to have caused
some upset, and I was wanting to talk with it. The next day at dawn
he found embroidering at the tobacconist. I was a little pale, and
his eyes, to lift them to Miguel, although smiling, expressing a gentle
melancholy.

- How has rested V., Maximina? - The question.

- I could
not sleep all night - said the girl.

- What then?

- Do not know
... went round and round ... and nothing.

Miguel smiled admiring
that naive. Thou
dost not seem to understand that all this while thy own life is in far greater danger than
mine; since thou hast done a thing that will not be forgiven thee by others, though I myself
have not only forgiven thee, but well understanding the fiery goad that drove thee into my
presence, have treated thee, for yet once more, with kindness and condescension far beyond
any deserts of thine. And for all return, thou art threatening even to slay me. But I am destitute
of fear.

And she stood before me in the moonlight, that turned her as it clung to all her limbs into
a thing beautiful beyond all earthly dreams, absolutely fearless, and with a dignity whose
royalty was not only that of a queen, but of loveliness laughing to scorn all possible comparison,
seeming to say without the need of any words: Art thou brave enough, and fool enough, to lay
rude hands on such a thing as I am, or even if thy folly were equal to thy courage, canst thou
find it in thy heart to think of violence offered to it, by thyself or any other, even in a
dream? And my heart burned, for sheer adoration, and yet strange! it began to sink at the very
same time, as I gazed at her, looking at me quietly in return. For there was something absolutely
unanswerable, not only in herself, but in everything she said, and yet her very simplicity
that overwhelmed me with its soft irrefutable sweetness increased the torture of my hopeless
admiration every time she spoke. And suddenly I struck my hands together in despair. And I
exclaimed: Ah! thou marvel of a woman and a queen, I am conquered by thee, and I am on the
very verge of falling at thy feet in a passion of tears, craving thy forgiveness as a criminal,
so bewildering is the double spell of thy beauty and thy intelligence, and the candour of thy
strange soul, which drives me mad with its inexplicable charm. But what does it matter to me,
hate me or love me, if I am never to see thee any more? Aye! Narasinha may not find it in him
to slay thee for thy wayward and beautiful independence, but then he can see thee every day,
exactly as he chooses: whereas I, once I go away this night, am outcast: for well I understand
that thou or he will see to it that I never come again. Dost thou imagine I can bear it? And
again I struck my hands together with a cry. And I exclaimed: Curse on my birth, and the crimes
of the births that went before it, that I was not born Narasinha! for he has cut me from my
happiness, and stolen from me the very fruit of being born at all!

And in my frenzy, I seized her in my arms once more, desperately clutching, as it were, at
the bliss escaping from my reach in her form. And I said to her, as I held her tight: Tell
me, had Narasinha never lived, could I have been to thee what he is now? And she extricated
herself, very gently, from my arms, and stood back, looking at me with meditative eyes; and
after a while, she said doubtfully, yet with a little smile on her lips: Perhaps. But I am
not sure. Thou art a little over-bearing. And yet I like thee, somehow, but I love thee not
at all. And yet again, it may be, that had I met thee sooner, I might have looked at thee with
other eyes. And I bear thee no malice, if indeed thou art a criminal, for any of thy crimes,
since I was their occasion. But what after all is the use of supposition as to what might be
were Narasinha away, since as it is, he is here, an obstacle in the way, not to be surmounted
by any means whatever? And so, thy case is hopeless. And I tried to make thee understand, in
vain: since thou wilt not take denial or listen to any reason. And I went to such a length,
out of kindness, as to give thee one single evening, packed as full as it could hold with all
the sweetness I could think of, giving myself up, so to say, to the insatiable thirst of thy
arms, and thy craving desire to be caressed and kissed by only me, and embodying thy dream,
and turning myself into an instrument of that nectar of feminine intoxication for which thou
wert ready to die, and putting myself without reserve absolutely at thy disposal, only to find
my kindness miserably requited by ingratitude and undeserved reproaches, and even menaces and
threats. And as I said, to-night, when by underhand contrivance thou didst force thyself upon
me, I never punished thee at all, as many another queen might do, but took pity on thy desolation
and forgave and overlooked all thy insolence, without being in the very least deceived by thy
fustian beginning, which I easily discerned to be a ruse, to enable thee perhaps to steal back
into my favour, all founded on a misinterpretation of the woman that I am. For had I really
been what people say, and what, listening to them, thou didst imagine me, thy foolish plan
might perhaps have been successful, but I am very different indeed. And yet, even so, thy part
was played so poorly, that it failed almost as soon as it began, since it needed but a touch
of my finger to make thee drop thy mask, and reveal thyself to be, what all the time I knew
thee, a lover in the depths of despair. For love is very hard to hide, and thou couldst scarcely
hope to deceive even those who are very easy to deceive, as I am not. And as I watched thy
clumsy effort, sitting as it did so ill on one so simple and direct as thou art, I could not
prevent my compassion from mixing with a very little laughter, remembering the ass in the Panchatantra,
who clothed him in a lion's skin, forgetting that his ears betrayed him, to say nothing of
his voice. And now for the second time I have given thee something that I would have refused
thee altogether, had caresses of compassion been any argument of love. But understand well,
that there will be no third opportunity: for this is thy farewell. Go as thou hast come, for
I will not attempt to penetrate thy secret, nor have thy footsteps dogged.

XXIX

And as I listened, I knew that all was over, and that her words were my doom: for I understood
that she was stronger far than I, and in a position absolutely impregnable by any efforts I
might make. And I stood gazing at her silently with a tumult in my soul that could find no
utterance in words. And I said at last, in a very low voice: Is thy decision irrevocable, and
am I really never to see thee any more? And she said: Even this time is more than I had allowed
thee, and I am afraid for thee. Aye! I fear that thy life is the forfeit thou wilt pay. Yet
blame not me for anything that may occur. For Narasinha would have slain thee already, as he
is furiously jealous of anything that comes near me in the form of a man, had I not myself
expressly interfered in thy behalf, making him swear to overlook thy former trespass on a ground
that he considers as his own. But he will not listen to me now. And to-morrow, as soon as he
discovers what has taken place to-night, for I cannot hide it, he will take measures to prevent
thy ever coming back, very likely such as thou thyself hinted at, of me, a little while ago.
Thou art looking at me now for the very last time; and remember, I told thee myself, I will
take no blame, if thy temerity turns out to have cost thee dear. Farewell, and if thou canst,
forget me, and go away to a great distance, without the loss of a single moment. For in a very
little while, thou mayst find, there will not even be the chance, and it will be too late.

And instead of going, I stood, rooted to the spot like a tree, gazing at her thirstily, in
a stupor of despair, and saying to myself: What! can it really be possible that I am actually
looking at her now, as she says, for the very last time in my life, doomed to go here, or there,
in the world, without ever seeing her again, knowing all the while that she is, still, somewhere
to be seen, and actually being seen, only not by me? Out upon such horror, for it would be
less, even if she were dead! And she, so kind, so gentle, how in the world can she stand there,
bidding me with a wave of her hand, in that low sweet voice of hers, to go away to a great
distance, to save my life, knowing well, for she is very clever, that she is taking it away,
by banishing me for ever? And am I just to be thrown away at the bidding of Narasinha?

And at the thought, all at once I began to laugh with sheer rage. And I said to myself: What!
must I turn my back on heaven, and go meekly down to hell, at the order of Narasinha? Would
she banish me at all, but for Narasinha? Who in the world is Narasinha? Is Narasinha my master?
Is he even her master, for as it seems, she is rather his? Are these his orders, or her own?
Ha! now, I wonder. What if after all this Narasinha were only a man of straw, doing exactly
as he is told, and acting as her agent and her instrument, for the sake of what she gives him?
Is it likely, after all, that he orders, and she obeys? And am I being fooled, and handed over
by herself to banishment, or even death, behind the screen of Narasinha?

And I looked at her as she stood, patiently waiting for me to go, with a soul torn to pieces
by rage, and suspicion, and love-longing, and flat refusal to go away. And suddenly there came
into my recollection Haridása, saying as he stood outside the door: Nectar when she turns towards
thee: poison when she turns away. And I said to myself: So now, she turns away. And can she
possibly not know, what becomes of all her lovers?

And I went up to her, all at once, and took her by her two hands, and looked straight into
her eyes. And I said: Táráwalí, thou choosest thy servants well. I know the use of Chaturiká.
And now dimly I begin to see the use of Narasinha. Does he never tell thee where he throws
the bodies of thy old lovers, when thou hast finished with their souls? 

A few more words intervened between the two. In the same pundits who were present elected either
the sponsors, who arranged a saber duel for tomorrow morning.

Sponsors, as people of opinion, made extraordinary efforts to cut the set friendly, polite plea
becoming the threat of Conde, and generous pledge not torn down by injunction of the poet,
not to speak ill of the love of heaven, but Conde and poet were so heated that not even the first
paved to play the role of supplicant, nor the second, even if you begged on his knees, said
he was able to shut up and not to be cursing and mocking, as long
as it was in the mood for, which was often. And I seized her in the grip of death, and tore from my arm the lute-string that was
wound about my wrist. And I said: Dear, I never gave thee thy music-lesson: but now I will
give thee a very long one on a single string. And in an instant, I twisted it about her neck,
and drew it tight, holding her still as she struggled, in an ecstasy of giant strength. And
so I stood, trembling all over, for a very long time. And at last, I felt that she lay in my
arms like a dead weight, hanging as it were against her will in the terrible embrace of a lover
that loved with hatred instead of love.

And I laid her down very gently, turning carefully away, that I might not see her face. And
I went away very quickly, and all at once, as I went, I fell down and began to sob, as if my
heart would break. 

I beg your M. receive poor service from a person who did most if his power and desire to conform.
And since he writes VM type and details of the matter very extensive, it seemed decided not
to start in the middle, but at the beginning, because they have a complete picture of me, and
also because they consider the nobles inherited states how little they are owed, Fortune was with
them as part and how much did those who, being so contrary to paddling strength and skill,
came to fruition.

First Treaty Lazarus has his life, and whose son was

For VM to know all things I called Lazaro de Tormes, the son of Tome Gonzales and Antona Perez,
Tejares natural, village of Salamanca. She and a dark man of those that animals cured, came
to the attention. Sometimes he would come to our house and went in the morning, sometimes he
would come to the door, pretending to buy eggs, and would come inside. I at the beginning of their
entry, pesábame with him and he scared me color and gesture that was bad, but when I saw that with
the food got better, wanting Fuila well, because he always brought bread and pieces of flesh,
and in the winter firewood so we could keep warm. So, continuing with the inn and talk, my mother
gave me a little black nice, which I jumped and help keep it warm. And remember one time when
my black father chessman with the little fellow, like the child that
my mother and I were white, and not him, fleeing the afraid for my
mother, and pointing say, "Mother, coconut!".

He answered laughing: "whoreson!"

I, however well a young boy, noted that word of my brother, and said to myself:

"There must be many in the world fleeing from others when they do not see themselves!"

As luck would have the conversation of Zaide, that was his name, reached the ears of Butler, and
done research, he found himself half through the barley, which for
animals gave him, stealing, and saved, firewood, curry, aprons, and
blankets and bedding for horses had been lost, and when nothing else
had, unfettered beasts, and all this came my mother to raise my little
brother. We are not surprised at priests and friars, because the one
steals from the poor and another house for his devotees and to help
as much, when a poor slave to love what he did?. There are all sorts of conditions laid down to regulate her going:
she must not go in broad daylight, but in a thunderstorm, or dusk.]

[Footnote 17: Láwanya means loveliness as well as salt.]

[Footnote 18: The exact equivalent, and indeed the only possible translation of kupanditá.]

[Footnote 19: This is due to the peculiar dress of Hindoo women, all in one piece, and put
on so that the edge that runs around the feet afterwards runs up diagonally and winds around
the whole figure. No national costume was ever better calculated to set off the sinuosities
and soft grace of a woman's figure to advantage than the marvellous simplicity of the sarí
which is nothing more than a very long strip of almost anything you please.]

[Footnote 20: i.e. the clever one: a name, like Nipuniká, employed in Hindoo plays to denote
the qualities of a grisette: Suzanne.]

[Footnote 21: Anuraktámritam bálá wiraktá wisham ewa sá.]

[Footnote 22: A female door-keeper. This appears to have been customary in old times. Runjeet
Singh had a body-guard of women, dressed like boys.]

[Footnote 23: The roots of these great figs "grow down" (hence their name) from the branches,
often coalescing with the trunks into the most extraordinary shapes: it needs no imagination
to see Dryads under the bark: they are visible to the naked eye. The huge leaves and great
white blossom of the shála make it one of the most beautiful of earthly trees: as the champak
is one of the most weird, like a great candlestick of innumerable branches whose pale flower-cups
grow out of the end of its clumsy fingers without leaves.]

[Footnote 24: Durgá, the inaccessible one, is one of Párwatí's innumerable names. It has reference
to a mountain steep, with accessory meanings, moral and theological.]

[Footnote 25: There are constant references in Hindoo poetry to swinging, which is a national
pastime in India, with a special festival in its honour.]

[Footnote 26: Pronounce as a trisyllable: Haridás.]

[Footnote 27: The Indian women used to send little earthenware dishes, with a lighted wick
in their oil, floating down the Ganges, to symbolise their children's lives. Perhaps they do
it still: but all these beautiful old superstitious practices are dying away, in the light
of "representative institutions." New lamps for old ones!]

[Footnote 28: That is Shrí, the Hindoo Aphrodite. Only those who have studied Hindoo goddesses
on the old temple walls, where they stand with everlasting marble smiles in long silent rows,
buried in the jungles that encircle their deserted fanes, will enter into the atmosphere of
this strange description.]

[Footnote 29: Daiwatam hi hayottamah, says Somadewa: a good horse is a divine thing.]

[Footnote 30: The Hindoo Æsculapius. 

Not to throw the rope after the bucket, the poor woman went ahead and carried out the sentence and
to avoid danger and away from wagging tongues, she went to serve the people who were living at
the inn de la Solana, and there, indignities, was completed to raise my brother until he knew
how to walk and me to be a good little boy who would guests wine and candles and what else they
told me. Finally, no one said getting some passion, then do not said: "Do this, this other,
COSEDE such grass, take that root." ANSI we were going under an arcade in Escalona, ​​where
at the time we were in the house of a shoemaker, there were many ropes and other things that are
made of straw, and part of them gave my master head, who, raising his hand, touched them, and
seeing what was said to me:

"Go quickly, young boy, get out so bad dish from which stifles without eating."

Yo, that it was careless of what I looked what it was, and as I saw
but ropes and webbing, it was not anything to eat, I said to him:

"Uncle,
why do you say that?"

He replied:

"Hush, nephew, according to the tricks that you take, you'll know and see as I speak the truth."

And
thus we went ahead through the portal and arrived at an inn, at the
door of which was many horns on the wall where the Recuero tied their
horses.

And if he was tempted Hence the inn, where he prayed every day for the landlady of the walled prayer,
seized a horn with a big sigh and said:

"Or bad thing, worse than you have the making!

Of how you want to put your name on head others and how few have
you not even hear your name, no way!

"

As I heard what he said, said:

"Dude, what's that you say?"

"Hush, my boy, someday you will it, I have that in hand, a bad lunch and dinner."

"Do not eat me," I said and I do not give it. "

"I tell you true, if not, see you, if you live."

And thus we passed on to the door of the inn, where it please God
never arrived, as it happened to me.

And when one of them escaped, God forgive me!, Which thousand times gave the devil, and he who had
died so many blessings from me said. Because the whole time I was there, it would be nearly
six months, only twenty people died, and I really think that I killed
or, rather, died at my request; because seeing the Lord my endless
and death, I was glad to kill you for giving me to my life.

More than this he suffered, was no remedy, if the day we buried I lived on was not dead, to look
good vezado of the fill, making my quotidian starvation rather sorry. So nothing stood out
except death, I also for me and the other wanted some times, but never saw it, but was always
with me. A neighbor said to him:

"In your house I remember that used to hang a snake, and it should be who the culprit. Maldíjeme
a thousand times - God forgive me! - and my bad luck, there most of the night, and (worst) osándome not
stir for not waken, I asked God many times death.

And as I say, he was with them just Macías, telling them more sweet that Ovid wrote. But as they
felt touched him that was fine, they are not ashamed to ask him to lunch with the usual payment.
He, feeling as cold as it was hot stock the stomach, he took it so
chill the color drained from his face, and began to trip over his
tongue to talk and lame excuses.

Them, they should be well instituted, as I felt disease, They left him for that era. For one
morning, getting the sad shirt climbed to the top of the house to make their chores, and as I get
out of suspicion, desenvolvíle doublet and hose to the head left, and found a pack of velvet,
satin fact one hundred fold and no damn white or hobiese signal that had plenty of time.

"This," I said is poor and no one gives what he has not. But the blind
and the wretched miser petty cleric who, with God give to both the
one hand and kissed another loose tongue, starved me, those are just
having aquesta unlove and undefiled. "

God knows that today, when
I run into any of their habit, with that step and pump, we I pity
to think if you have what it saw him suffer, even with all its poverty'd
still be glad to serve more than the others by what I said. Just had
of some discontent that I would not be so presumed, rather than down
a bit with how much your fantasy coming up to your need. But it seems
to me, and among them is the rule used and stored, although Trucco
not gored, they have to keep the cap in place. For blinded by his rage against
his rival Narasinha, he came suddenly to the wrong conclusion, and slew her by mistake, never
so much as giving her time for any explanation. For her eyes never wavered, as he thought,
for guilt, but for quite another reason. And Narasinha really was, exactly as she said, her
tyrant, nor had she anything to do with his assassination of her lovers, which he committed
all on his own account, out of jealousy, paying no attention at all to her intercession. But
in her gentleness, she shrank from the very idea of any violence, and this was the true cause
of the wavering of her eyes, foreseeing as she did another attempt on Shatrunjaya, which she
could not avert. And my heart was grieved at her death at the hands of a lover whose life she
had saved, and would have saved again if she could. For she was worth far more than he.

And the Daughter of the Snow said: But what was she doing with such a multitude of lovers at all?

And Maheshwara said: Thou art like Shatrunjaya himself, biased against her by the insinuations
of Haridása, and the discreditable behaviour of that little liar Chaturiká, who betrayed her
as well as others, and by the idle talk of the people, which she rightly compared herself to
the croaking of so many frogs. For low people always put the very worst interpretation upon
the actions of kings, and especially of queens, of whom all the time they know less than nothing,
exactly as she said. And Shatrunjaya's opinion of her wavered, in spite of all his worship,
being coloured by the scandal that he heard, so that he saw her through its mist, as strangers
always do. And if she had too many lovers, it was all the fault of the Creator, who endowed
her with such fascination, combined with the kindness of her heart: since she blamed herself
for their misery, and could not bear to send them away without making them as it were some
reparation for her crime of being beautiful beyond all resistance. And this was her only fault.

Then said the Mountain-born, with emphasis: I hate her: for a woman should confine herself to one.

And Maheshwara said, looking at her with affection: Ah! Snowy One, thou art right, and thou
art wrong. For not every woman is a counterpart of thee. And moreover, to be rigidly inaccessible[39]
is terribly hard, when a woman is as she was, a very incarnation of bewildering intoxication,
and kind into the bargain. For then she resembles a fortress, besieged night and day and mined
everlastingly by innumerable hosts absolutely determined to get in; and sleepless indeed must
be the garrison that guards it; and often it yields of sheer weariness and fatigue, unable
any longer to endure the strain. And Táráwalí was absolutely right when she said that her lovers
drove her, against her inclination, into the reputation of a lady of many lovers, since they
were all so infatuated by the very sight of her that they never let her alone. For love that
really finds its object will face ten thousand deaths to reach it, and is very hard to repel.
And it laughs in utter scorn at arguments, and bribes, and barriers, and dangers, and refusals,
bent with a burning heart upon one thing only, to reach its goal, dead or alive, no matter
which. And when a woman is an incarnation of that object, she moves the whole world with her
little finger, and is fatal, and raised into a category above all ordinary rules. And Táráwalí
was moreover in a peculiar position, for her husband had thrown her away of his own accord,
so that she actually belonged to nobody but herself, and injured herself alone, if she could
not always help yielding when a lover pushed her terribly hard, by touching her heart like
Shatrunjaya in the matter of his dream. And very few indeed are the women who would not have
done the same, for he was a great musician, and a man among men, and very young. And very rare
indeed is the woman who is qualified to censure her. For most women keep their wheel upon the
track, either because nobody ever tries to make them leave it, or simply for fear, either of
being punished, or of other women's tongues. And not one in a crore could have resisted half
the pressure that Táráwalí had to bear, for the very greatest of a winning woman's charms is
exactly the one which she possessed in supreme perfection, her soft and delicious willingness
to oblige and please, and place all the sweetness of her personality at the absolute disposal
of her lover, as Shatrunjaya understood at the very first sight of her: a thing so utterly
irresistible, that when it is combined, as it was in her, with intelligence masculine in its
quality, its owner sweeps away every man's reason like a chip in a flood. This rich, but small population Andalusia,
was flourishing then, because its fertile vineyards, which had not yet phylloxera destroyed,
producing exquisite wines to be sold to Jerez to be agreed in Jerez.
 For in the birth before, she was a man, doomed
by gati[40] to become a woman in the next, by reason of a sin. And she said again: What sin?
Then said Maheshwara: Ask me another time, O thou cajoler: for it is a long story, and now
I have no more leisure: since I must go and bestow the favour of my presence on a ceremony
performed by a pious devotee who has built me a new temple at Wáránasi. However,
Valera, to dwell on the theoretical level, used to insist on unlimited privileges of fantasy and
the position of art for art. Zolesco to naturalism and against other most traditional realism,
he believed that the novel is not to retreat into the probable or contain a moralizing intention.
Covered by these statements, in addition to their own novels, which boasted free free invention
thesis. But, referring in particular Juanita la Larga, wrote: "I do not know if this book is novel
or not. I wrote it with very little art, combining memories of my early youth, and even from my
childhood, spent in this or that place the province of Cordoba.
 But
when once any being has attained it, emancipation dawns, touching it into colour more beautiful
by far than any tints the rising sun has ever thrown on newly fallen mountain snow.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 37: A very beautiful story in the MS., which has not yet seen the light. The opinion
of the deity is corroborated by that very clever woman, Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, who says
in one of her letters from Constantinople that if women went without clothes, the face would
hardly count at all. Another element is also reiterated in his novels: love,
difficult, between men and women are mature enough to still unripe.

Among the happiest of Valera pages are those that title The Cordoba,
description and analysis beautiful women of his land. The god is combining Goethe and Swinburne: the "eternal feminine"
and the "holy spirit of man."]

[Footnote 39: See note ante, p. 47.]

[Footnote 40: A very short word for a very long process, and untranslatable by any English
equivalent. 

PAULINE Garagorri

I

A friend of mine, deputy novel, whose name was
not put here because it is the case, was entusiasmadísimo with his
district and particularly the place where he had his greatest strength,
place we designate by the name of Villalegre.

