'Thank you, the actinia would not live.  I must take what I can find. A lump of gamboge--'

'If you stay much longer, he will not retain his senses,' muttered James Frost, who was leaning
backwards against the counter, where the bewildered bookseller of the little coast-town of
Bickleypool was bustling, in the vain endeavour to understand and fulfil the demands of that
perplexing customer, Lord Fitzjocelyn.

'Some drawing-paper.  This is hardly absorbent enough.  If you have any block sketch-books?--'

'Could procure some, my Lord.'

James looked at his watch, while the man dived into his innermost recesses.  'The tide!' he said.

'Never mind, we shall only stick in the mud.'

'How could you expect to find anything here?  A half-crown paint-box is their wildest dream.'

'Keep quiet, Jem, go and look out some of those library books, like a wise man.'

'A wise man would be at a loss here,' said James, casting his eye along the battered purple
backs of the circulating-library books.

'Wisdom won't condescend!  Ah! thank you, this will do nicely. Those colours--yes; and the
Seaside Book.  I'll choose one or two. What is most popular here?'

James began to whistle; but Louis, taking up a volume, became engrossed beyond the power of
hints, and hardly stepped aside to make way for some ladies who entered the shop.  A peremptory
touch of the arm at length roused him, and holding up the book to the shopman, he put it into
his pocket, seized his ash-stick, put his arm into his cousin's, and hastened into the street.

'Did you ever see--' began Jem.

'Most striking.  I did not know you had met with her.  What an idea--the false self conjuring
up phantoms--'

'What are you talking of?  Did you not see her?'

'Elizabeth Barrett.  Was she there?'

'Is that her name?  Do you know her?'

'I had heard of her, but never--'

'How?--where?  Who is she?'

'I only saw her name in the title-page.'

'What's all this?  You did not see her?'

'Who?  Did not some ladies come into the shop?'

'Some ladies!  Is it possible?  Why, I touched you to make you look.'

'I thought it was your frenzy about the tide.  What now?--'

James made a gesture of despair.  'The loveliest creature I ever saw. You may see her yet,
as she comes out.  Come back!'

'Don't be so absurd,' said Fitzjocelyn, laughing, and, with instinctive dislike of staring,
resisting his cousin's effort to wheel him round. 'What, you will?' withdrawing his arm.  'I
shall put off without you, if you don't take care.'

And, laughing, he watched Jem hurry up the sloping street and turn the corner, then turned
to pursue his own way, his steps much less lame and his looks far more healthful than they
had been a month before.  He reached the quay--narrow, slippery, and fishy, but not without
beauty, as the green water lapped against the hewn stones, and rocked the little boats moored
in the wide bay, sheltered by a richly-wooded promontory.  'Jem in a fit of romance!  Well,
whose fault will it be if we miss the tide?  I'll sit in the boat, and read that poem again.--
Oh! here he comes, out of breath.  Well, Jem, did the heroine drop glove or handkerchief? 
Or, on a second view, was she minus an eye?'

'You were,' said James, hurrying breathlessly to unmoor the boat.

'Let me row,' said Louis; 'your breath and senses are both lost in the fair vision.'

'It is of no use to talk to you--'

'I shall ask no questions till we are out of the harbour, or you will be running foul of one
of those colliers--a tribute with which the Fair Unknown may dispense.'

The numerous black colliers and lighters showed that precautions were needful till they had
pushed out far enough to make the little fishy town look graceful and romantic; and the tide
was ebbing so fast, that Louis deemed it prudent to spend his strength on rowing rather than
on talking.

James first broke silence by exclaiming--'Do you know where Beauchastel is?'

'On the other side of the promontory.  Don't you remember the spire rising among the trees,
as we see it from the water?'

'That church must be worth seeing.  I declare I'll go there next Sunday.'

Another silence, and Louis said--'I am curious to know whether you saw her.'

'She was getting into the carriage as I turned the corner; so I went back and asked Bull who
they were.'

'I hope she was the greengrocer's third cousin.'

'Pshaw!  I tell you it was Mrs. Mansell and her visitors.'

'Oho!  No wonder Beauchastel architecture is so grand.  What an impudent fellow you are, Jem!'

'The odd thing is,' said James, a little ashamed of Louis having put Mansell and Beauchastel
together, as he had not intended, 'that it seems they asked Bull who we were.  I thought one
old lady was staring hard at you, as if she meant to claim acquaintance, but you shot out of
the shop like a sky-rocket.'

'Luckily there's no danger of that.  No one will come to molest us here.'

'Depend on it, they are meditating a descent on his lordship.'

'You shall appear in my name, then.'

'Too like a bad novel: besides, you don't look respectable enough for my tutor.  And, now I
think of it, no doubt she was asking Bull how he came to let such a disreputable old shooting-jacket
into his shop.'

The young men worked up an absurd romance between them, as merrily they crossed the estuary,
and rowed up a narrow creek, with a whitewashed village on one side, and on the other a solitary
house, the garden sloping to the water, and very nautical--the vane, a union-jack waved by
a brilliant little sailor on the top of a mast, and the arbour, half a boat set on end; whence,
as James steered up to the stone steps that were one by one appearing, there emerged an old,
grizzly, weather-beaten sailor, who took his pipe from his mouth, and caught hold of the boat.

'Thank you, Captain!' cried Fitzjocelyn.  'I've brought home the boat safe, you see, by my
own superhuman exertions--no thanks to Mr. Frost, there!'

'That's his way, Captain,' retorted Jem, leaping out, and helping his cousin: 'you may thank
me for getting him home at all!  But for me, he would have his back against the counter, and
his head in a book, this very moment.'

'Ask him what he was after,' returned Louis.

'Which of us d'ye think most likely to lag, Captain Hannaford?' cried Jem, preventing the question.

'Which would you choose to have on board?'

'Ye'd both of ye make more mischief than work,' said the old seaman, who had been looking from
one to the other of the young men, as if they were performing a comedy for his special diversion.

'So you would not enter us on board the Eliza Priscilla?' cried Louis.

'No, no,' said the old man, shrewdly, and with an air of holding something back; whereupon
they both pressed him, and obtained for answer, 'No, no, I wouldn't sail with you'--signing
towards Fitzjocelyn--'in my crew: ye'd be more trouble than ye're worth.  And as to you, sir,
if I wouldn't sail with ye, I'd like still less to sail under you.'

He finished with a droll, deprecating glance, and Louis laughed heartily; but James was silent,
and as soon as they had entered the little parlour, declared that it would not do to encourage
that old skipper--he was waylaying them like the Ancient Mariner, and was actually growing
impudent.

'An old man's opinion of two youngsters is not what I call impudence,' began Louis, with an
emphasis that made Jem divert his attack.

Those two cousins had never spent a happier month than in these small lodgings, built by the
old retired merchant-seaman evidently on the model of that pride of his heart, the Eliza Priscilla,
his little coasting trader, now the charge of his only surviving son; for this was a family
where drowning was like a natural death, and old Captain Hannaford looked on the probability
of sleeping in Ebbscreek churchyard, much as Bayard did at the prospect of dying in his bed.
His old deaf wife kept the little cabin-like rooms most exquisitely neat; and the twelve-years-old
Priscilla, the orphan of one of the lost sons, waited on the gentlemen with an old-fashioned,
womanly deportment and staid countenance that, in the absence of all other grounds of distress,
Louis declared was quite a pain to him.

The novelty of the place, the absence of restraint, the easy life, and, above all, the freshness
of returning health, rendered his spirits exceedingly high, and he had never been more light-hearted
and full of mirth.  James, elated at his rapid improvement, was scarcely less full of liveliness
and frolic, enjoying to the utmost the holiday, which perhaps both secretly felt might be the
farewell to the perfect carelessness of boyish relaxation.  Bathing, boating, fishing, dabbling,
were the order of the day, and withal just enough quarrelling and teasing to add a little spice
to their pleasures. Louis was over head and ears in maritime natural history; but Jem, backed
by Mrs. Hannaford, prohibited his 'messes' from making a permanent settlement in the parlour;
though festoons of seaweed trellised the porch, ammonites heaped the grass-plat, tubs of sea-water
flanked the approach to the front door; and more than one bowl, with inmates of a suspicious
nature, was often deposited even on the parlour table.

On the afternoon following the expedition to Bickleypool, Louis was seated, with an earthenware
pan before him, coaxing an actinia with raw beef to expand her blossom, to be copied for Miss
Faithfull. Another bowl stood near, containing some feathery serpulas; and the weeds were heaped
on the locker of the window behind him, and on the back of the chair which supported his lame
foot.  The third and only remaining chair accommodated James, with a book placed on the table;
and a semicircle swept round it, within which nothing marine might extend.

Louis was by turns drawing, enticing his refractory sitter, exhorting her to bloom, and complimenting
her delicate beauty, until James, with a groan, exclaimed, 'Is silence impossible to you, Fitzjocelyn?
I would go into the garden, but that I should be beset by the intolerable old skipper!'

'I beg your pardon--I thought you never heard nor heeded me.'

'I don't in general, but this requires attention; and it is past all bearing to hear how you
go on to that Jelly!'

'Read aloud, then: it will answer two purposes.

'This is Divinity--Hooker,' said James, sighing wearily.

'So much the better.  I read some once; I wish I had been obliged to go on.'

'You are the oddest fellow!--After all, I believe you have a craving after my profession.'

'Is that a discovery?' said Louis, washing the colour out of his brush. 'The only person I
envy is a country curate--except a town one.'

'Don't talk like affectation!' growled James.

'Do you know, Jem,' said Louis, leaning back, and drawing the brush between his lips, 'I am
persuaded that something will turn up to prevent it from being your profession.'

'Your persuasions are wrong, then!'

'That fabulous uncle in the Indies--'

'You know I am determined to accept nothing from my uncle, were he to lay it at my feet--which
he never will.'

'Literally or metaphorically?' asked Louis, softly.

'Pshaw!'

'You Dynevors don't resemble my sea-pink.  See how she stretches her elegant fringes for this
very unpleasant bit of meat!  There!  I won't torment you any more; read, and stop my mouth!'

'You are in earnest?'

'You seem to think that if a man cannot be a clergyman, he is not to be a Christian.'

'Then don't break in with your actinias and stuff!'

'Certainly not,' said Louis, gravely.

The first interruption came from James himself.  Leaping to his feet with a sudden bound, he
exclaimed, 'There they are!' and stood transfixed in a gaze of ecstasy.

'You have made me smudge my lake,' said Louis, in the mild tone of 'Diamond, Diamond!'

'I tell you, there they are!' cried James, rushing into wild activity.

'One would think it the Fair Unknown,' said Louis, not troubling himself to look round, nor
desisting from washing out his smudge.

'It is! it is!--it is all of them!  Here they come, I tell you, and the place is a very merman's
cave!'

'Take care--the serpula--don't!' as James hurriedly opened the door leading to the stairs--disposed
of the raw meat on one step and the serpulas on another, and hurled after them the heap of
seaweed, all but one trailing festoon of 'Luckie Minnie's lines,' which, while his back was
turned, Louis by one dexterous motion wreathed round the crown of his straw hat; otherwise
never stirring, but washing quietly on, until he rose as little Priscilla opened the door,
and stood aside, mutely overawed at the stream of flounced ladies that flowed past, and seemed
to fill up the entire room.  It was almost a surprise to find that, after all, there were only
three of them!

'I knew I was not mistaken,' said a very engaging, affectionate voice. 'It is quite shocking
to have to introduce myself to you--Lady Conway--'

'My aunt!' cried Louis, with eager delight--'and my cousin!' he added, turning with a slight
blush towards the maiden, whom he felt, rather than saw, to be the worthy object of yesterday's
rapture.

'Not quite,' she answered, not avoiding the grasp of his hand, but returning it with calm,
distant politeness.

'Not quite,' repeated Lady Conway.  'Your real cousins are no farther off than Beauchastel--'

'Where you must come and see them,' added the third lady--a portly, cordial, goodnatured dame,
whom Lady Conway introduced as Mrs. Mansell, who had known his mother well; and Louis making
a kind of presentation of his cousin James, the two elder ladies were located on two of the
chairs: the younger one, as if trying to be out of the way, placed herself on the locker. 
Jem stood leaning on the back of the other chair; and Louis stood over his aunt, in an ecstasy
at the meeting--at the kind, warm manner and pleasant face of his aunt--and above all, at the
indescribable pleasure imparted by the mere presence of the beautiful girl, though he hardly
dared even to look at her; and she was the only person whose voice was silent in the chorus
of congratulation, on the wonderful chance that had brought the aunt and nephew together. The
one had been a fortnight at Beauchastel, the other a month at Ebbscreek, without guessing at
each other's neighbourhood, until Lady Conway's attention had been attracted at the library
by Louis's remarkable resemblance to her sister, and making inquiries, she had learnt that
he was no other than Lord Fitzjocelyn.  She was enchanted with the likeness, declaring that
all she wished was to see him look less delicate, and adding her entreaties to those of Mrs.
Mansell, that the two young men would come at once to Beauchastel.

Louis looked with wistful doubt at James, who, he knew, could not brook going to fine places
in the character of tutor; but, to his surprise and pleasure, James was willing and eager,
and made no demur, except that Fitzjocelyn could not walk so far, and the boat was gone out.
Mrs. Mansell then proposed the ensuing Monday, when, she said, she and Mr. Mansell should be
delighted to have them to meet a party of shooting gentlemen--of course they were sportsmen.
Louis answered at once for James; but for himself, he could not walk, nor even ride the offered
shooting-pony; and thereupon ensued more minute questions whether his ankle were still painful.

'Not more than so as to be a useful barometer.  I have been testing it by the sea-weeds.  If
I am good for nothing else, I shall be a walking weather-glass, as well as a standing warning
against man-traps.'

'You don't mean that you fell into a man-trap!' exclaimed Mrs. Mansell, in horror.  'That will
be a warning for Mr. Mansell!  I have such a dread of the frightful things!'

'A trap ingeniously set by myself,' said Louis.  'I was only too glad no poor poacher fell
into it.'

'Your father told me that it was a fall down a steep bank,' exclaimed Lady Conway.

'Exactly so; but I suppose he thought it for my credit to conceal that my trap consisted of
a flight of stone stops, very solid and permanent, with the trifling exception of cement.'

'If the truth were known,' said James, 'I believe that a certain scamp of a boy was at the
bottom of those steps.'

'I'm the last person to deny it,' said Louis, quietly, though not without rising colour, 'there
was a scamp of a boy at the bottom of the steps, and very unpleasant he found it--though not
without the best consequences, and among them the present--' And he turned to Lady Conway with
a pretty mixture of gracefulness and affection, enough to win the heart of any aunt.

Mrs. Mansell presently fell into raptures at the sight of the drawing materials, which must,
she was sure, delight Isabel, but she was rather discomfited by the sight of the 'subject,'--called
it an odious creature, then good-humouredly laughed at herself, but would not sit down again,
evidently wishing to escape from close quarters with such monsters.  Lady Conway likewise rose,
and looked into the basin, exclaiming, in her turn, 'Ah!  I see you understand these things!
Yes, they are very interesting!  Virginia will be delighted; she has been begging me for an
aquarium wherever we go.  You must tell her how to manage it.  Look, Isabel, would not she
be in ecstasies?'

Miss Conway looked, but did not seem to partake in the admiration. 'I am perverse enough never
to like what is the fashion,' she said.

'I tried to disgust Fitzjocelyn with his pets on that very ground,' said James; 'but their
charms were too strong for him.'

'Fashion is the very testimony to them,' said Louis.  'I think I could convince you.'

He would perhaps have produced his lovely serpula blossoms, but he was forced to pass on to
his aunt and Mrs. Mansell, who had found something safer for their admiration, in the shape
of a great Cornu ammonis in the garden.

'He can throw himself into any pursuit,' said James, as he paused at the door with Miss Conway;
but suddenly becoming aware of the slimy entanglement round his hat, he exclaimed, 'Absurd
fellow!' and pulled it off rather petulantly, adding, with a little constraint, 'Recovery does
put people into mad spirits!  I fancy the honest folks here look on in amaze.'

Miss Conway gave a very pretty smile of sympathy and consolation, that shone like a sunbeam
on her beautiful pensive features and dark, soft eyes.  Then she began to admire the view,
as they stood on the turf, beside Captain Hannaford's two small cannon, overlooking the water
towards Bickleypool, with a purple hill rising behind it.  A yacht was sailing into the harbour,
and James ran indoors to fetch a spy-glass, while Lady Conway seized the occasion of asking
her nephew his tutor's name.

Louis, who had fancied she must necessarily understand all his kindred, was glad to guard against
shocks to Jem's sensitive pride, and eagerly explained the disproportion between his birth
and fortune, and his gallant efforts to relieve his grandmother from her burthens.  He was
pleased to find that he had touched all his auditors, and to hear kind-hearted Mrs. Mansell
repeat her special invitation to Mr. Frost Dynevor with double cordiality.

'If you must play practical jokes,' said James, as they watched the carriage drive off, 'I
wish you would choose better moments for them.'

'I thought you would be more in character as a merman brave,' said Louis.

'I wonder what character you thought you appeared in?'

'I never meant you to discover it while they were here, nor would you, if you were not so careful
of your complexion.  Come, throw it at my head now, as you would have done naturally, and we
shall have fair weather again!'

'I am only concerned at the impression you have made.'

'Too late now, is it?  You don't mean to be bad company for the rest of the day.  It is too
bad, after such a presence as has been here. She is a poem in herself.  It is like a vision
to see her move in that calm, gliding way.  Such eyes, so deep, so tranquil, revealing the
sphere apart where she dwells!  An ideal!  How can you be savage after sitting in the same
room, and hearing that sweet, low voice?'

Meantime the young lady sat back in the carriage, dreamily hearing, and sometimes answering,
the conversation of her two elders, as they returned through pretty forest-drives into the
park of Beauchastel, and up to the handsome, well-kept house; where, after a few words from
Mrs. Mansell, she ascended the stairs.

'Isabel!' cried a bright voice, and a girl of fourteen came skating along the polished oak
corridor.  'Come and have some tea in the school-room, and tell us your adventures!'  And so
saying, she dragged the dignified Isabel into an old-fashioned sitting-room, where a little
pale child, two years younger, sprang up, and, with a cry of joy, clung round the elder sister.

'My white bind-weed,' said Isabel, fondly caressing her, 'have you been out on the pony?'

'Oh I yes, we wanted only you.  Sit down there.'

And as Isabel obeyed, the little Louisa placed herself on her lap, with one arm round her neck,
and looked with proud glee at the kind, sensible-faced governess who was pouring out the tea.

'The reconnoitring party!' eagerly cried Virginia.

'Did you find the cousin?'

'Yes, we did.'

'Oh!  Then what is he like?'

'You will see when he comes on Monday.'

'Coming--oh!  And is he so very handsome?'

'I can see how pretty a woman your Aunt Louisa must have been.'

'News!' laughed Virginia; 'when mamma is always preaching to me to be like her!'

'Is he goodnatured?' asked Louisa.

'I had not full means of judging,' said Isabel, more thoughtfully than seemed justified by
the childish question.  'His cousin is coming too,' she added; 'Mr. Frost Dynevor.'

'Another cousin!' exclaimed Virginia.

'No; a relation of Lord Ormersfield--a person to be much respected. He is heir to a lost estate,
and of a very grand old family.  Lord Fitzjocelyn says that he is exerting himself to the very
utmost for his grandmother and orphan sister; denying himself everything.  He is to be a clergyman.
There was a book of divinity open on the table.'

'He must be very good!' said Louisa, in a low, impressed voice, and fondling her sister's hand.
'Will he be as good as Sir Roland?'

'Oh! I am glad he is coming!' cried Virginia.  'We have so wished to see somebody very good!'

A bell rang--a signal that Lady Conway would be in her room, where she liked her two girls
to come to her while she was dressing. Louisa reluctantly detached herself from her sister,
and Virginia lingered to say, 'Dress quickly, please, please, Isabel.  I know there is a new
bit of Sir Roland done!  Oh! I hope Mr. Dynevor is like him!'

'Not quite,' said Isabel, smiling as they ran away.  'Poor children, I am afraid they will
be disappointed; but long may their craving be to see 'somebody very good!'

'I am very glad they should meet any one answering the description,' said the governess.  'I
don't gather that you are much delighted with the object of the expedition.'

'A pretty boy--very pretty.  It quite explains all I have ever heard of his mother.'

'As you told the children.'

'More than I told the children.  Their aunt never by description seemed to me my ideal, as
you know.  I would rather have seen a likeness to Lord Ormersfield, who--though I don't like
him--has something striking in the curt, dry, melancholy dignity of his manner.'

'And how has Lord Fitzjocelyn displeased you?'

'Perhaps there is no harm in him--he may not have character enough for that; but talk, attitudes,
everything betrays that he is used to be worshipped--takes it as a matter of course, and believes
nothing so interesting as himself.'

'Don't you think you may have gone with your mind made up?'

'If you mean that I thought myself uncalled for, and heartily detested the expedition, you
are right; but I saw what I did not expect.'

'Was it very bad?'

'A very idle practical joke, such as I dislike particularly.  A quantity of wet sea-weed wound
round Mr. Dynevor's hat.'

Miss King laughed.  'Really, my dear, I don't think you know what young men like from each other.'

'Mr. Dynevor did not like it,' said Isabel, 'though he tried to pass it off lightly as the
spirits of recovery.  Those spirits--I am afraid he has too much to suffer from them.   There
is something so ungenerous in practical wit, especially from a prosperous man to one unprosperous!'

'Well, Isabel, I won't contradict, but I should imagine that such things often showed people
to be on the best of terms.'

Isabel shook her head, and left the room, to have her dark hair braided, with little heed from
herself, as she sat dreamily over a book.  Before the last bracelet was clasped, she was claimed
by her two little sisters, who gave her no peace till her desk was opened, and a manuscript
drawn forth, that they might hear the two new pages of her morning's work.  It was a Fouque-like
tale, relieving and giving expression to the yearnings for holiness and loftiness that had
grown up within Isabel Conway in the cramped round of her existence.  The story went back to
the troubadour days of Provence, where a knight, the heir of a line of shattered fortunes,
was betrothed to the heiress of the oppressors, that thus all wrongs might be redressed.  They
had learnt to love, when Sir Roland discovered that the lands in dispute had been won by sacrilege.
He met Adeline at a chapel in a little valley, to tell the whole.  They agreed to sacrifice
themselves, that restitution should be made; the knight to go as a crusader to the Holy Land;
the lady, after waiting awhile to tend her aged father, to enter a convent, and restore her
dower to the church.  Twice had Isabel written that parting, pouring out her heart in the high-souled
tender devotion of Roland and his Adeline; and both feeling and description were beautiful
and poetical, though unequal.  Louisa used to cry whenever she heard it, yet only wished to
hear it again and again, and when Virginia insisted on reading it to Miss King, tears had actually
been surprised in the governess's eyes.  Yet she liked still better Adeline's meek and patient
temper, where breathed the feeling Isabel herself would fain cherish--the deep, earnest, spiritual
life and high consecrated purpose that were with the Provencal maiden through all her enforced
round of gay festivals, light minstrelsy, tourneys, and Courts of Love.  Thus far had the story
gone.  Isabel had been writing a wild, mysterious ballad, reverting to that higher love and
the true spirit of self-sacrifice, which was to thrill strangely on the ears of the thoughtless
at a contention for the Golden Violet, and which she had adapted to a favourite air, to the
extreme delight of the two girls. To them the Chapel in the valley, Roland and his Adeline,
were very nearly real, and were the hidden joy of their hearts,--all the more because their
existence was a precious secret between the three sisters and Miss King, who viewed it as such
an influence on the young ones, that, with more meaning than she could have explained, she
called it their Telemaque.  The following-up of the teaching of Isabel and Miss King might
lead to results as little suspected by Lady Conway as Fenelon's philosophy was by Louis XIV.

Lady Conway was several years older than her beautiful sister, and had married much later.
Perhaps she had aimed too high, and had met with disappointments unavowed; for she had finally
contented herself with becoming the second wife of Sir Walter Conway, and was now his serene,
goodnatured, prosperous widow.  Disliking his estate and neighbourhood, and thinking the daughters
wanted London society and London masters, she shut up the house until her son should be of
age, and spent the season in Lowndes-square, the autumn either abroad, in visits, or at watering-places.

Beauchastel was an annual resort of the family.  Isabel was more slenderly portioned than her
half-sisters; and she was one of the nearest surviving relations of her mother's cousin, Mr.
Mansell, whose large comfortable house was always hospitable; and whose wife, a great dealer
in goodnatured confidential gossip, used to throw out hints to her great friend Lady Conway,
that much depended on Isabel's marriage--that Mr. Mansell had been annoyed at connexions formed
by others of his relations--but though he had decided on nothing, the dear girl's choice might
make a great difference.

Nothing could be more passive than Miss Conway.  She could not remember her mother, but her
childhood had been passed under an admirable governess; and though her own Miss Longman had
left her, Miss King, the successor, was a person worthy of her chief confidence.  At two-and-twenty,
the school-room was still the home of her affections, and her ardent love was lavished on her
little sisters and her brother Walter.

Going out with Lady Conway was mere matter of duty and submission. She had not such high animal
spirits as to find enjoyment in her gaieties, and her grave, pensive character only attained
to walking through her part; she had seen little but the more frivolous samples of society,
scorned and disliked all that was worldly and manoeuvring, and hung back from levity and coquetry
with utter distaste.  Removed from her natural home, where she would have found duties and
seen various aspects of life, she had little to interest or occupy her in her unsettled wanderings;
and to her the sap of life was in books, in dreams, in the love of her brother and sisters,
and in discussions with Miss King; her favourite vision for the future, the going to live with
Walter at Thornton Conway when he should be of age.  But Walter was younger than Louisa, and
it was a very distant prospect.

Her characteristic was a calm, serene indifference, in which her stepmother acquiesced, as
lovers of peace do in what they cannot help; and the more willingly, that her tranquil dignity
and pensive grace exactly suited the style of her tall queenly figure, delicate features, dark
soft languid eyes, and clear olive complexion, just tinged with rosebud pink.

What Louis said of her to his tutor on the Monday night of their arrival was beyond the bounds
of all reason; and it was even more memorable that Jem was neither satirical nor disputatious,
assented to all, and if he sighed, it was after his door was shut.

A felicitous day ensued, spent by James in shooting, by Fitzjocelyn, in the drawing-room; whither
Mrs. Mansell had requested Isabel's presence, as a favour to herself.  The young lady sat at
work, seldom raising her eyes, but this was enough for him; his intense admiration and pleasure
in her presence so exhilarated him, that he rattled away to the utmost. Louisa was at first
the excuse.  In no further doubt of his good-nature, she spent an hour in the morning in giving
him anagrams to guess; and after she had repaired to the schoolroom, he went on inventing fresh
ones, and transposing the ivory letters, rambling on in his usual style of pensive drollery.
Happiness never set him off to advantage, and either there was more froth than ordinary, or
it appeared unusually ridiculous to an audience who did not detect the under-current of reflection.
His father would have been in despair, Mrs. Ponsonby or Mary would have interposed; but the
ladies of Beauchastel laughed and encouraged him,--all but Isabel, who sat in the window, and
thought of Adeline, 'spighted and angered both,' by a Navarrese coxcomb, with sleeves down
to his heels, and shoes turned up to his knees.  She gave herself great credit for having already
created him a Viscount.

In the afternoon, Louis drove out lionizing with his aunt; but though the ponies stopped of
themselves at all the notable views; sea, hill, and river were lost on him.  Lady Conway could
have drawn out a far less accessible person, and her outpouring of his own sentiments made
him regard her as perfect.

She consulted him about her winter's resort.  Louisa required peculiar care, and she had thought
of trying mineral baths--what was thought of Northwold? what kind of houses were there?  The
Northwold faculty themselves might have taken a lesson from Fitzjocelyn's eloquent analysis
of the chemical properties of the waters, and all old Mr. Frost's spirit would seem to have
descended on him when he dilated on the House Beautiful.  Lodgers for Miss Faithfull! what
jubilee they would cause!  And such lodgers!  No wonder he was in ecstasy.  All the evening
the sound of his low, deliberate voice was unceasing, and his calm announcements to his two
little cousins were each one more startling than the last; while James, to whom it was likewise
all sunshine, was full of vivacity, and a shrewd piquancy of manner that gave zest to all he
said, and wonderfully enlivened the often rather dull circle at Beauchastel.

Morning came; and when the ladies descended to breakfast, it was found that Lord Fitzjocelyn
had gone out with the sportsmen.  The children lamented, and their elders pronounced a young
gentleman's passion for shooting to be quite incalculable.  When, late in the day, the party
returned, it was reported that he did not appear to care much for the sport; but had walked
beside Mr. Mansell's shooting-pony, and had finally gone with him to see his model farm. This
was a sure road to the old squire's heart, and no one was more delighted with the guest. For
Aunt Catharine's sake, Louis was always attracted by old age, and his attentive manners had
won Mr. Mansell's heart, even before his inquiries about his hobby had completed the charm.
To expound and to listen to histories of agricultural experiments that really answered, was
highly satisfactory to both, and all the evening they were eager over the great account-book
which was the pride of the squire's heart; while Virginia and Louisa grumbled or looked imploring,
and Isabel marvelled at there being any interest for any one in old Mr. Mansell's conversation.

'What is the meaning of this?' asked James, as they went up stairs.

Louis shrugged like a Frenchman, looked debonnaire, and said 'Good-night.'

Again he came down; prepared for shooting, though both pale and lame; but he quietly put aside
all expostulations, walking on until, about fifty yards from the house, a pebble, turning under
the injured foot, caused such severe pain that he could but just stagger to a tree and sit down.

There was much battling before Mr. Mansell would consent to leave him, or he to allow James
to help him back to the house, before going on to overtake the party.

Very irate was Jem, at folly that seemed to have undone the benefits of the last month, and
at changeableness that was a desertion of the queen to whom all homage was due.  He was astonished
that Louis turned into the study, a room little inhabited in general, and said, 'Make haste--you
will catch the others; don't fall in with the ladies.'

'I mean to send your aunt to you.'

'Pray don't.  Can't you suppose that peace is grateful after having counted every mortal hour
last night?'

'Was that the reason you were going to walk ten miles without a leg to stand upon?  Fitzjocelyn!
is this systematic?'

'What is?' said Louis, wearily.

'Your treatment of--your aunt.'

'On what system should aunts be treated?'

'Of all moments to choose for caprice!  Exactly when I thought even you were fixed!'

'Pur troppo,' sighed Louis.

'Ha!' cried Jem, 'you have not gone and precipitated matters!  I thought you could never amaze
me again; but even you might have felt she was a being to merit rather more time and respect!'

'Even I am not devoid of the organ of veneration.'

His meek tone was a further provocation; and with uplifted chin, hair ruffled like the crest
of a Shetland pony, flashing eyes, and distinct enunciation, James exclaimed, 'You will excuse
me for not understanding you.  You come here; you devote yourself to your aunt and cousins--you
seem strongly attracted; then, all on a sudden, you rush out shooting--an exercise for which
you don't care, and when you can't walk: you show the most pointed neglect.  And after being
done-up yesterday, you repeat the experiment to-day, as if for the mere object of laming yourself
for life.  I could understand pique or temper, but you have not the--'

'The sense,' said Louis; 'no, nor anything to be piqued at.'

'If there be a motive,' said James, 'I have a right to demand not to be trifled with any longer.'

'I wish you could be content to shoot your birds, and leave me in peace: you will only have
your fun spoilt, like mine, and go into a fury.  The fact is, that my father writes in a state
of perturbation. He says, I might have understood, from the tenor of his conduct, that he did
not wish me to be intimate with my aunt's family!  He cannot know anything about them, for
it is all one warning against fashion and frivolity.  He does not blame us--especially not you.'

'I wish he did.'

'But he desires that our intercourse should be no more than propriety demands, and plunges
into a discourse against first impressions, beauty, and the like.'

'So that's the counterblast!'

'You ought to help me, Jem,' said Louis, dejectedly.

'I'll help you with all my heart to combat your father's prejudices.'

'An hour's unrestrained intercourse with these people would best destroy them,' said Louis;
'but, in the mean time--I wonder what he means.'

'He means that he is in terror for his darling scheme.'

'Mrs. Ponsonby was very right,' sighed Louis.

'Ay!  A pretty condition you would be in, if she had not had too much principle to let you
be a victim to submission.  That's what you'll come to, though!  You will never know the meaning
of passion; you will escape something by it, though you will be twisted round his lordship's
finger, and marry his choice.  I hope she will have red hair!'

'Negative and positive obedience stand on different grounds,' said Louis, with such calmness
as often fretted James, but saved their friendship.  'Besides, till I had this letter, I had
no notion of any such thing.'

James's indignation resulted in fierce stammering; while Louis deliberately continued a viva
voce self-examination, with his own quaint naivete, betraying emotion only by the burning colour
of cheek and brow.

'No; I had no such notion.  I only felt that her presence had the gladdening, inspiriting,
calming effect of moonlight or starlight. I reverenced her as a dream of poetry walking the
earth.  Ha! now one hears the sound of it--that is like it!  I did not think it was such a
confirmed case.  I should have gone on in peace but for this letter, and never thought about
it at all.'

'So much the better for you!'

'My father is too just and candid not to own his error, and be thankful.'

'And you expect her to bear with your alternations in the mean time?'

'Towards her I have not alternated.  When I have made giggle with Clara under the influence
of the starry sky, did you suppose me giggling with Lyra or the Pleiades!  I should dread to
see the statue descend; it seemed irreverence even to gaze.  The lofty serenity keeps me aloof.
I like to believe in a creature too bright and good for human nature's daily food.  Our profane
squinting through telescopes at the Lady Moon reveals nothing but worn-out volcanoes and dry
oceans, black gulfs and scorched desolation; but verily that may not be Lady Moon's fault--only
that of our base inventions.  So I would be content to mark her--Isabel, I mean--queenly, moonlike
name!--walk in beauty and tranquillity unruffled, without distorting my vision by personal
aims at bringing her down to my level.  There--don't laugh at me, Jem.'

'No, I am too sorry for you.'

'Why!' he exclaimed, impatient of compassion; 'do you think it desperate?'

'I see your affection given to a most worthy object, and I know what your notions of submission
will end in.'

'Once for all, Jem,' said Fitzjocelyn, 'do you know how you are using my father?  No; Isabel
Conway may be the happiness or the disappointment of my life--I cannot tell.  I am sure my
father is mistaken, and I believe he may be convinced; but I am bound not to fly in the face
of his direct commands, and, till we can come to an understanding, I must do the best I can,
and trust to--'

The last word was lost, as he turned to nurse his ankle, and presently to entreat James to
join the sportsmen; but Jem was in a mood to do nothing pleasing to himself nor to any one
else.  A sacrifice is usually irritating to the spectators, who remonstrate rather than listen
to self-reproach; and Louis had been guilty of three great offences--being in the right, making
himself ridiculous, and submitting tamely--besides the high-treason to Isabel's beauty. It
was well that the Earl was safe out of the way of the son of the Pendragons!

Fitzjocelyn was in pain and discomfort enough to make James unwilling to leave him; though
his good-will did not prevent him from keeping up such a stream of earplugs and sinister auguries,
that it was almost the climax of good-temper that enabled Louis to lie still, trying to read
a great quarto Park's Travels, and abstaining from any reply that could aggravate matters.
As the one would not go to luncheon, the other would not; and after watching the sound of the
ladies' setting out for their drive, Louis said that he would go and lie on the turf; but at
that moment the door was thrown open, and in ran Virginia. Explanations were quickly exchanged--how
she had come to find Vertot's Malta for Isabel, and how he had been sent in by hurting his foot.

'Were you going to stay in all day?' said Virginia.  'Oh, come with us! We have the pony-carriage;
and we are going to a dear old ruin, walking and driving by turns.  Do, pray, come; there's
plenty of room.'

There could be no objection to the school-room party, and it was no small relief to escape
from James and hope he was amused; so Fitzjocelyn allowed himself to be dragged off in triumph,
and James was acceding to his entreaty that he would go in search of the shooting-party, when,
as they reached the hall-door, they beheld Miss Conway waiting on the steps.

There was no receding for her any more than for Louis, so she could only make a private resolution
against the pony-carriage, and dedicate herself to the unexceptionable company of little sister,
governess and tutor; for James had resigned the shooting, and attached himself to the expedition.
It was an excellent opportunity of smoothing his cousin's way, and showing that all was not
caprice that might so appear: so he began to tell of his most advantageous traits of character,
and to explain away his whimsical conduct, with great ardour and ingenuity. He thought he should
be perfectly satisfied if he could win but one smile of approbation from that gravely beautiful
mouth; and it came at last, when he told of Fitzjocelyn's devoted affection to Mrs. Frost and
his unceasing kindness to the old ladies of Dynevor Terrace.  Thus gratified, he let himself
be led into abstract questions of principle,--a style of discussion frequent between Miss King
and Isabel, but on which the latter had never seen the light of a man's mind thrown except
through books.  The gentlemen whom she had met were seldom either deep or earnest, except those
too much beyond her reach; and she had avoided anything like confidence or intimacy: but Mr.
Dynevor could enlighten and vivify her perplexed reflections, answer her inquiries, confirm
her opinion of books, and enter into all that she ventured with diffidence to express.  He
was enchanted to find that no closer approach could dim the lustre of Louis's moon, and honoured
her doubly for what she had made herself in frivolous society.  He felt sure that his testimony
would gain credit where Fitzjocelyn's would be regarded as love-blinded, and already beheld
himself forcing full proof of her merits on the reluctant Earl, beholding Louis happy, and
Isabel emancipated from constraint.

A five miles' walk gave full time for such blissful discoveries; for Miss Conway was resolute
against entering the pony-carriage, and walked on, protesting against ever being fatigued;
while Louis was obliged to occupy his seat in the carriage, with a constant change of companions.

'I think, my dear,' said Miss King, when the younger girls had gone to their mother's toilette,
'that you will have to forgive me.'

'Meaning,' said Isabel, 'that you are bitten too!  Ah! Miss King, you could not withstand the
smile with which he handed you in!'

'Could you withstand such an affectionate account of your cruel, tyrannical practical joker?'

'Facts are stubborn things.  Do you know what Mr. Dynevor is doing at this moment?  I met him
in the gallery, hurrying off to Ebbscreek for some lotion for Lord Fitzjocelyn's ankle.  I
begged him to let Mrs. Mansell send; but no-no one but himself could find it, and his cousin
could not bear strangers to disarrange his room.  If anything were wanting, it would be enough
to see how simply and earnestly such a man has been brought to pamper--nay, to justify, almost
to adore, the whims and follies of this youth.'

'If anything were wanting to what?  To your dislike.'

'It would not be so active as dislike, unless--' Isabel spoke with drooping head, and Miss
King did not ask her to finish, but said, 'He has not given you much cause for alarm.'

'So; he is at least a thorough gentleman.  It may be conceit, or wrong self-consciousness,
but from the moment the poor boy was spied in the shop, I had a perception that mamma and Mrs.
Mansell marked him down. Personally he would be innocent, but, through all his chatter, I cannot
shake off the fancy that I am watched, or that decided indifference is not needed to keep him
at a distance.'

'I wish you could have seen him without knowing him!'

'In vain, dear Miss King!  I can't bear handsome men.  I see his frivolity and shallowness;
and for amiability, what do you think of keeping his cousin all the morning from shooting for
such a mere nothing, and then sending him off for a ten miles' walk?

'For my part, I confess that I was struck with the good sense and kindness he showed in our
tete-a-tete--I thought it justified Mr. Dynevor's description.'

'Yes, I have no doubt that there is some good in him.  He might have done very well, if he
had not always been an idol.'

Isabel was the more provoked with Lord Fitzjocelyn, when, by-and-by, he appeared in the drawing-room,
and related the result of his cousin's mission.  Jem, who would know better than himself where
to find his property, had not chosen to believe his description of the spot where he had left
the lotion, and, in the twilight, Louis had found his foot coiled about by the feelers and
claws of a formidable monster--no other than a bottled scorpion, a recent present from Captain
Hannaford.  He did not say how emblematic the scorpion lotion was of that which Jem had been
administering to his wounded spirit all the morning, but he put the story in so ludicrous a
light that Isabel decided that Mr. Dynevor was ungenerously and ungratefully treated as a butt;
and she turned away in displeasure from the group whom the recital was amusing, to offer her
sympathy to the tutor, and renew the morning's conversation.

CHAPTER XIII.

FROSTY, BUT KINDLY.

  Go not eastward, go not westward,
  For a stranger whom we know not.
  Like a fire upon the hearthstone,
  Is a neighbour's homely daughter;
  Like the moonlight or the starlight,
  Is the handsomest of strangers.
                      Legend of Hiawatha.

'What a laboured production had the letter been!  How many copies had the statesman written!
how late had he sat over it at night! how much more consideration had he spent on it than on
papers involving the success of his life!  A word too much or too little might precipitate
the catastrophe, and the bare notion of his son's marriage with a pupil of Lady Conway renewed
and gave fresh poignancy to the past.

At first his anxieties were past mention; but he grew restless under them, and the instinct
of going to Mrs. Ponsonby prevailed.  At least, she would know what had transpired from James,
or from Fitzjocelyn to Mrs. Frost.

She had heard of ecstatic letters from both the cousins, and Mary had been delighted to identify
Miss Conway with the Isabel of whom one of her school friends spoke rapturously, but the last
letter had beenfrom James to his grandmother, declaring that Lord Ormersfield was destroying
the happiness of the most dutiful of sons, who was obedient even to tameness, and so absurd
that there was no bearing him.  His lordship must hear reason, and learn that he was rejecting
the most admirable creature in existence, her superiority of mind exceeding even her loveliness
of person.  He had better beware of tyranny; it was possible to abuse submission, and who could
answer for the consequences of thwarting strong affections?  All the ground Fitzjocelyn had
gained in the last six weeks had been lost; and for the future, James would not predict.

'An uncomfortable matter,' said Mrs. Ponsonby, chiefly for the sake of reading her daughter's
feelings.  'If it were not in poor Louis's mind already, his father and James would plant it
there by their contrary efforts.'

'Oh! I hope it will come right,' said Mary.  'Louis is too good, and his father too kind, for
it not to end well.  And then, mamma, he will be able to prove, what nobody will believe--that
he is constant.'

'You think so, do you?' said her mother, smiling.

Mary blushed, but answered, 'where he really cared, he would be constant.  His fancy might
be taken, and he might rave, but he would never really like what was not good.--If he does
think about Miss Conway, we may trust she is worthy of him.  Oh! I should like to see her!'

Mary's eyes lighted up with an enthusiasm that used to be a stranger to them.  It was not the
over-acted indifference nor the tender generosity of disappointment: it seemed more to partake
of the fond, unselfish, elder-sisterly affection that she had always shown towards Louis, and
it set her mother quite at ease.

Seeing Lord Ormersfield riding into the terrace, Mary set out for a walk, that he might have
his tete-a-tete freely with her mother.  On coming home, she met him on the stairs; and he
spoke with a sad softness and tone of pardon that alarmed her so much, that she hastened to
ask her mother whether Louis had really avowed an attachment.

'Oh no,' said Mrs. Ponsonby; 'he has written a very right-minded letter, on the whole, poor
boy! though he is sure the Conways have only to be known to be appreciated.  Rather too true!
It is in his Miss Fanny hand, stiff and dispirited; and his father has worked himself into
such a state of uneasiness, that I think it will end in his going to Ebbscreek at once.'

'O mamma, you won't let him go and torment Louis?'

'Why, Mary, have you been learning of James?  Perhaps he would torment him more from a distance;
and besides, I doubt what sort of counsellor James is likely to make in his present mood.'

'I never could see that James made any difference to Louis,' said Mary. 'I know people think
he does, because Louis gives up wishes and plans to him; but he is not led in opinions or principles,
as far as I can see.'

'Not unless his own wishes went the same way.'

'At least, Lord Ormersfield will see Miss Conway!'

'I am afraid that will do no good.  It will not be for the first time. Lady Conway has been
his dread from the time of his own marriage; and if she should come to Northwold, he will be
in despair. I do think he must be right; she must be making a dead set at Louis.'

'Not Miss Conway,' said Mary.  'I know she must be good, or he would not endure her for a moment.'

'Mary, you do not know the power of beauty.'

'I have heard of it,' said Mary; 'I have seen how Dona Guadalupe was followed.  But those people
were not like Louis.  No, mamma; I think James might be taken in, I don't think Louis could
be--unless he had a very grand dream of his own before his eyes; and then it would be his own
dream, not the lady that he saw; and by-and-by he would find it out, and be so vexed!'

'And, I trust, before he had committed himself!'

'Mamma, I won't have you think Miss Conway anything but up to his dreams!  I know she is. 
Only think what Jane Drummond says of her!'

When the idea of going to see how matters stood had once occurred to the Earl, he could not
stay at home: the ankle and the affections preyed on him by turns, and he wrote to Sir Miles
Oakstead to fix an earlier day for the promised visit, as well as to his son, to announce his
speedy arrival.  Then he forgot the tardiness of cross-country posts, and outran his letter,
so that he found no one to meet him at Bickleypool; and on driving up to the gate at Ebbscreek,
found all looking deserted.  After much knocking, Priscilla appeared, round-eyed and gasping,
and verified his worst fears with 'Gone to Bochattle.' However, she explained that only one
gentleman was gone to dine there; the other was rowing him round the point, with grandfather;--they
would soon be back--indeed they ought, for the tide was so low, they would have to land down
by the shingle bar.

She pointed out where the boat must come in; and thither the Earl directed his steps, feeling
as if he were going to place himself under a nutmeg-grater, as he thought how James Frost would
receive the implied distrust of his guardianship.

The sunset gleam was fading on the sleepy waves that made but a feint of breaking, along the
shining expanse of moist uncovered sand, when two figures were seen progressing from the projecting
rocks, casting long shadows before them.  Lord Ormersfield began to prepare a mollifying address--but,
behold!  Was it the effect of light so much to lengthen Jem's form? nay, was it making him
walk with a stick?  A sudden, unlooked-for hope seized the Earl.  The next minute he had been
recognised; and in the grasping hands and meeting eyes, all was forgotten, save the true, fond
affection of father and son.

'I did not expect this pleasure.  They told me you were dining out.'

'Only rowing Jem to the landing-place.  I told him to make my excuses. It is a dinner to half
the neighbourhood, and my foot is always troublesome if I do not lay it up in the evening.'

'I am glad you are prudent,' said his father, dismissing his fears in his gratification, and
proceeding to lay his coming to the score of his foot.

Fitzjocelyn did not wish to see through the plea--he was much too happy in his father's unusual
warmth and tenderness, and in the delights of hospitality.  Mrs. Hannaford was gone out, and
eatables were scarce; but a tea-dinner was prepared merrily between Priscilla, the Captain,
and Louis, who gloried in displaying his school-fagging accomplishments with toast, eggs, and
rashers--hobbled between parlour and kitchen, helping Priscilla, joking with the Captain, and
waiting on his father so eagerly and joyously as to awaken a sense of adventure and enjoyment
in the Earl himself.  No meal, with Frampton behind his chair, had ever equalled Fitzjocelyn's
cookery or attendance; and Louis's reminiscences of the penalties he had suffered from his
seniors for burnt toast, awoke like recollections of schoolboy days, hitherto in utter oblivion,
and instead of the intended delicate conversation, father and son found themselves laughing
over a 'tirocinium or review of schools.'

Still, the subject must be entered on; and when Lord Ormersfield had mentioned the engagement
to go to Oakstead, he added, 'All is well, since I have found you here.  Let me tell you that
I never felt more grateful nor more relieved than by this instance of regard for my wishes.'

Though knowing the fitful nature of Louis's colour, he would have been better satisfied not
to have called up such an intensity of red, and to have had some other answer than, 'I wish
you saw more of them.'

'I see them every year in London.'

'London gives so little scope for real acquaintance,' ventured Louis again, with downcast eyes.

'You forget that Lady Conway is my sister-in-law.'  Louis would have spoken, but his father
added, 'Before you were born, I had full experience of her.  You must take it on trust that
her soft, prepossessing manners belong to her as a woman of the world who cannot see you without
designs on you.'

'Of course,' said Louis, 'I yield to your expressed wishes; but my aunt has been very kind
to me: and,' he added, after trying to mould the words to their gentlest form, 'you could not
see my cousins without being convinced that it is the utmost injustice--'

'I do not censure them,' said his father, as he hesitated between indignation and respect,
'I only tell you, Louis, that nothing could grieve me more than to see your happiness in the
keeping of a pupil of Lady Conway.'

He met a look full of consternation, and of struggles between filial deference and the sense
of injustice.  All Louis allowed himself to say was, however, 'Surely, when I am her own nephew!
when our poverty is a flagrant fact--she may be acquitted of anything but caring for me for--for
my mother's sake.'

There was a silence that alarmed Louis, who had never before named his mother to the Earl.
At last, Lord Ormersfield spoke clearly and sternly, in characteristic succinct sentences,
but taking breath between each.  'You shall have no reason to think me prejudiced.  I will
tell you facts.  There was a match which she desired for such causes as lead her to seek you.
The poverty was greater, and she knew it.  On one side there was strong affection; on that
which she influenced there was--none whatever.  If there were scruples, she smothered them.
She worked on a young innocent mind to act out her deceit, and without a misgiving on--on his
part that his feelings wore not returned, the marriage took place.'

'It could not have been all her own fault,' cried Louis.  'It must have been a willing instrument--much
to blame--'

His father cut him short with sudden severity, such as startled him. 'Never say so, Louis.
She was a mere child, educated for that sole purpose, her most sweet and docile nature wasted
and perverted.'

'And you know this of your own knowledge?' said Fitzjocelyn, still striving to find some loophole
to escape from such testimony.

The Earl paused, as if to collect himself, then repeated the words, slowly and decidedly, 'Of
my own knowledge.  I could not have spoken thus otherwise.'

'May I ask how it ended?'

'As those who marry for beauty alone have a right to expect.  There was neither confidence
nor sympathy.  She died early.  I--we--those who loved her as their own life--were thankful.'

Louis perceived the strong effort and great distress with which these words were uttered, and
ventured no answer, glancing hastily through all his connexions to guess whose history could
thus deeply affect his father; but he was entirely at a loss; and Lord Ormersfield, recovering
himself, added, 'Say no more of this; but, believe me, it was to spare you from her manoeuvres
that I kept you apart from that family.'

'The Northwold baths have been recommended for Louisa,' said Fitzjocelyn.  'Before we knew
of your objections, we mentioned Miss Faithfull's lodgings.'

What the Earl was about to utter, he suppressed.

'You cannot look at those girls and name manoeuvring!' cried Louis.

'Poor things.'

After a silence, Lord Ormersfield added, with more anxiety than prudence, 'Set my mind at rest,
Louis.  There can have been no harm done yet, in so short a time.'

'I--don't--know--' said Louis, slowly.  'I have seldom spoken to her, to be sure.  She actually
makes me shy!  I never saw anything half so lovely.  I cannot help her reigning over my thoughts.
I shall never believe a word against her, though I cannot dispute what you say of my aunt.
She is of another mould, I wish you could let me hope that--'

A gesture of despair from his father cut him short.

'I will do whatever you please,' he concluded.

'You will find that time conquers the fancy,' said the Earl, quickly. 'I am relieved to find
that you have at least not committed yourself: it would be no compliment to Mary Ponsonby.'

Louis's lip curled somewhat; but he said no more, and made no objections to the arrangements
which his father proceeded to detail. Doubtful of the accommodations of Ebbscreek, Lord Ormersfield
had prudently retained his fly, and though Louis, intending to sleep on the floor, protested
that there was plenty of room, he chose to return to the inn at Bickleypool.  He would call
for Louis to-morrow, to take him for a formal call at Beauchastel; and the day after they would
go together to Oakstead, leaving James to return home, about ten days sooner than had been
previously concerted.

Lord Ormersfield had not been gone ten minutes, before James's quick bounding tread was heard
far along the dry woodland paths. He vaulted over the gate, and entered by the open window,
exclaiming, as he did so, 'Hurrah!  The deed is done; the letter is off to engage the House
Beautiful.'

'Doom is doom!' were the first words that occurred to Louis.  'The lion and the prince.'

'What's that?'

'There was once a king,' began Louis, as if the tale were the newest in the world, 'whose son
was predestined to be killed by a lion. After much consideration, his majesty enclosed his
royal highness in a tower, warranted wild-beast proof, and forbade the chase to be mentioned
in his hearing.  The result was, that the locked-up prince died of look-jaw in consequence
of tearing his hand with a nail in the picture of the lion.'

'I shall send that apologue straight to Ormersfield.'

'You may spare that trouble.  My father has been with me all the evening.'

'Oh! his double-ganger visits you.  That accounts for your freaks.'

'Double-gangers seldom come in yellow-bodied flys.'

'His lordship in propria persona.  You don't mean it.'

'He is sleeping at the 'George' at Bickleypool.  There is a letter coming to-morrow by the
post, to say he is coming to-day, with every imaginable civility to you; but I am to go to
the rose-coloured pastor's with him on Wednesday.'

'So there's an end of our peace and comfort!'

'I am afraid we have sadly discomposed his peace.'

'Did you discover whether his warnings have the slightest foundation?'

'He told me a history that somewhat accounts for his distrust of my aunt.  I think there must
be another side to it, and nothing can be more unjust than to condemn all the family, but it
affected him so exceedingly that I do not wonder at his doing so.  He gave no names, but I
am sure it touched him very nearly.  Can you tell who it could have been?'  And he narrated
enough to make James exclaim, 'It ought to touch him nearly.  He was talking of himself.'

'Impossible!--my mother!' cried Louis, leaping up.

'Yes--his own version of his married life.'

'How do you know?  You cannot remember it,' said Louis, though too well convinced, as he recollected
the suppressed anguish, and the horror with which all blame of the young wife had been silenced.

'I have heard of it again and again.  It was an unhappy, ill-assorted marriage: she was gay,
he was cold.'

'My Aunt Catharine says so?'

'As far as she can blame anything.  Your mother was a sweet blossom in a cold wind.  She loved
and pitied her with all her heart.  Your aunt was talking, this very evening, of your father
having carried her sister to Ormersfield, away from all her family, and one reason of her desire
to go to Northwold is to see those who were with her at last.'

Louis was confounded.  'Yes! I see,' he said.  'How obtuse not to read it in his own manner!
How much it explains!' and he silently rested his brow on his hands.

'Depend upon it, there are two sides to the story.  I would not be a pretty, petted, admired
girl in his keeping.'

'Do you think it mends matters with me to fasten blame on either?' said Louis, sadly.  'No;
I was realizing the perception of such a thread of misery woven into his life, and thinking
how little I have felt for him.'

'Endowing him with your own feelings, and then feeling for him!'

'No.  I cannot estimate his feeling.  He is of harder, firmer stuff than I; and for that very
reason, I suspect, suffering is a more terrific thing.  I heard the doctors saying, when I
bore pain badly, that it would probably do the less future harm: a bad moral, but I believe
it is true of the mental as of the physical constitution.' Answering something between a look
and a shrug of James, he mused on, aloud--'I understand better what the wreck of affection
must have been.'

'For my part,' said James, 'I do not believe in the affection that can tyrannize over and blight
a woman.'

'Nay, James! I cannot doubt.  My very name--my having been called by it, are the more striking
in one so fond of usage and precedent. Things that passed between him and Mrs. Ponsonby while
I was ill--much that I little regarded and ill requited--show what force of love and grief
there must have been.  The cold, grave manner, is the broken, inaccessible edge of the cliff
rent asunder.'

'If romance softens the rough edge, you are welcome to it!  I may as well go to bed!'

'Not romance--the sad reality of my poor father's history.  I trust I shall never treat his
wishes so lightly--'

Impatient of one-sided sympathy, James exclaimed, 'As if you did not give way to him like a slave!'

'Yes, like a slave,' said Louis, gravely.  'I wish to give way like a son who would try to
comfort him for what he has undergone.'

'Now, I should have thought your feeling would have been for your mother!'

'If my mother could speak to me,' said Louis, with trembling lips, 'she would surely bid me
to try my utmost, as far as in me lies, to bring peace and happiness to my father.  I cannot
tell where the errors may have been, and I will never ask.  If she was as like to me as they
say, I could understand some of them!  At least, I know that I am doubly bound to give as little
vexation to him as possible, and I trust that you will not make it harder to me.  You lost
your father so early, that you can hardly estimate--'

'The trial?' said James, willing to give what had passed the air of a joke.

'Exactly so--Good night.'

CHAPTER XIV.

NEW INHABITANTS.

  Sometimes a troop of damsels glad--
  Sometimes a curly shepherd lad,
  Or long-haired page in crimson clad,
      Goes by to towered Camelot;
  And sometimes, through the mirror blue,
  The knights come riding two and two.
  She hath no loyal knight and true--
      The Lady of Shalott.
                          TENNYSON.

'Oakstead, Oct. 14th, 1847.

'My Dear Aunt,--I find that Fitzjocelyn is writing to you, but I think you will wish for a
fuller account of him than can be obtained from his own letters.  Indeed, I should be much
obliged if you would kindly exercise your influence to persuade him that he is not in a condition
to be imprudent with impunity.  Sir Miles Oakstead was absolutely shocked to see the alteration
in his appearance, as well as in his spirits; and although both our kind host and hostess are
most solicitous on his account, it happens unfortunately that they are at this juncture quite
alone, so that he is without companions of his own age.  I must not, however, alarm you.  The
fact is, that circumstances have occurred which, though he has acted in the most exemplary
manner, have harassed and distressed him a good deal, and his health suffers from the difficulty
of taking sufficient exercise. James will triumph when he hears that I regret having shortened
his stay by the sea-side; for neither the place nor the weather seems to agree with him: he
has had a recurrence of wakeful nights, and is very languid.  Poor boy! yesterday he wandered
out alone in the rain, lost his way, and came home so fatigued that he slept for three hours
on the sofa, but to-day he seems better--has more colour, and has been less silent.  We go
to Leffingham Castle from Monday till Thursday, when I shall take him to London for Hastings
to decide whether it be fit for him to return to Christchurch after the vacation, according
to his own most anxious wish.  With my love to Mary Ponsonby and her daughter, and best remembrances
to James,

                                     'Your affectionate nephew,
                                               'ORMERSFIELD.'

The same envelope contained another letter of many sheets, beginning in a scrawl:--

'Scene--Rose-coloured Pastor's Nest.  Tables, chairs, books, papers, despatch-boxes.  The two
ex-ministers writing and consulting. Viscount F. looking on like a colt running beside its
parent at plough, thinking that harness leaves deep marks, and that he does not like the furrow.

'October 13th, 1847.--That correct date must be a sign that he is getting into harness.

'Well, dear Aunt Kitty, to make a transition from the third to the first person, like Mrs.
Norris, you have in this short scene an epitome of the last fortnight.  Lady Oakstead is an
honourable matron, whom I pity for having me in her way; a man unable to be got rid of by the
lawful exercises of shooting and riding, and with a father always consulting her about him,
and watching every look and movement, till the blood comes throbbing to my temples by the mere
attraction of his eyes.  To be watched into a sense of impatience and ingratitude, is a trial
of life for which one is not prepared.  My father and Sir Miles are very busy; I hang here
an anomaly, sitting with them as being less in their way than in Lady Oakstead's, and wondering
what I shall be twenty years hence.  I am sick of the only course of life that will content
my father, and I can see no sunshine likely to brighten it. But, at least, no one's happiness
is at stake but my own.  Here is a kind, cordial letter from Lady Conway, pressing me to join
her at Scarborough, make expeditions, &c.  My father is in such a state about me, that I believe
I could get his consent to anything, but I suppose it would not be fair, and I have said nothing
to him as yet.  On Monday we go to Leffingham, which, I hear, is formality itself.  After that,
more state visits, unless I can escape to Oxford.  My father fancies me not well enough; but
pray unite all the forces of the Terrace to impress that nothing else will do me any good.
Dragging about in this dreary, heartless way is all that ails me, and reading for my degree
would be the best cure.  I mean to work hard for honours, and, if possible, delude myself with
hopes of success.  Work is the need. Here, there is this one comfort.  There is no one to talk
to, no birds in last year's nest, sons absent, daughters disposed of, but, unluckily, the Pastoress,
under a mistaken sense of kindness, has asked the Vicar's son to walk with me, and he is always
lying in wait,--an Ensign in a transition state between the sheepish schoolboy and the fast
man, with an experience of three months of depot.  Having roused him from the pristine form,
I regret the alternative.

'Did I ever write so savage a letter?  Don't let it vex you, or I won't send it.  What a bull!
There is such a delectable Scotch mist, that no one will suspect me of going out; and I shall
actually cheat the Ensign, and get a walk in solitude to hearten me for the dismal state dinner
party of the evening.

'October 14th.--Is it in the book of fate that I should always treat this rose-coloured pastor
like a carrion crow?  I have done it again! And it has but brought out more of my father's
marvellous kindness and patience.

'I plunged into the Scotch mist unsuspected and unpursued.  The visible ebullition of discontent
had so much disgusted me that I must needs see whether anything could be done with it, and
fairly face the matter, as I can only do in a walk.  Pillow counsel is feverish and tumultuous;
one is hardly master of oneself.  The soft, cool, mist-laden air, heavy but incense-breathing,
was a far more friendly adjunct in the quiet decay of nature--mournful, but not foul nor corrupt,
because man had not spoilt it.  It suited me better than a sunny, glaring day, such as I used
to revel in, and the brightness of which, last spring, made me pine to be in the free air.
Such days are past with me; I had better know that they are, and not strive after them.  Personal
happiness is the lure, not the object, in this world.  I have my Northwold home, and I am beginning
to see that my father's comfort depends on me as I little imagined, and sufficiently to sweeten
any sacrifice.  So I have written to refuse Scarborough, for there is no use in trying to combine
two things, pleasing my father and myself.  I wish the determination may last; but mine have
never been good for much, and you must help me.

'Neither thinking nor fog conduced to seeing where I was going; and when my ankle began to
give out, and I was going to turn, I ran into a hedge, which, looming through the mist, I had
been taking for a fine range of distant mountains--rather my way of dealing with other objects.
Being without a horse on whose neck to lay the reins, I could only coast the hedge, hoping
it might lead me back to Oakstead Park, which I had abandoned in my craving for space and dread
of being dogged by the Ensign.  But the treacherous hedge led me nowhere but to a horsepond;
and when I had struggled out of the adjacent mire, and attained a rising ground, I could only
see about four yards square of bare down, all the rest being grey fog.  Altogether, the scene
was worth something.  I heard what I thought the tinkling of a sheep bell through the cloud,
which dulled the sound like cotton wool; I pursued the call, when anon, the veil began to grow
thin, and revealed, looking just like a transparency, a glimpse of a little village in a valley
almost under my feet, trees, river, church-spire and all, and the bell became clearer, and
showed me what kind of flock it was meant for.  I turned that way, and had just found a path
leading down the steep, when down closed the cloud--a natural dissolving view--leaving me wondering
whether it had been mirage or imagination, till presently, the curtain drew up in earnest.
Out came, not merely form, but colour, as I have seen a camera clear itself--blue sky, purple
hills, russet and orange woods, a great elm green picked out with yellow, a mass of brown oaks,
a scarlet maple, a beech grove, skirting a brilliant water meadow, with a most reflective stream
running through it, and giving occasion for a single arched bridge, and a water mill, with
a wheel draperied with white foam; two swans disporting on the water (I would not declare they
were not geese), a few cottony flakes of mist hanging over damp corners, the hill rising green,
with the bright whitewashed cottages of this district, on the side a rich, red, sandstone-coloured
church, late architecture, tower rather mouldering--all the more picturesque; churchyard, all
white headstones and ochreous sheep, surmounted by a mushroom-shaped dark yew tree, railed
in with intensely white rails, the whole glowing in the parting coup-de-soleil of a wet day,
every tear of every leaf glistening, and everything indescribably lustrous. It is a picture
that one's mental photograph ought to stamp for life, and the cheering and interest it gave,
no one but you can understand. I wished for you, I know.  It looks so poor in words.

'After the service, I laid hold of the urchin whose hearty stare had most reminded me of Tom
Madison, and gave him a shilling to guide me back to Oakstead, a wise measure, for down came
the cloud, blotting all out like the Castle of St. John, and by the time I came home, it was
pitch dark and raining hard, and my poor father was imagining me at the foot of another precipice.
I was hoping to creep up in secret, but they all came out, fell upon me, Lady Oakstead sent
me tea, and ordered me to rest; and so handsomely did I obey, that when next I opened my eyes,
and saw my father waiting, as I thought, for me to go down to dinner with him, I found he had
just come up after the ladies had quitted the dining-room.  So kind and so little annoyed did
he seem, that I shook myself, to be certified that I had broken no more bones, but it was all
sheer forbearance and consideration--enough to go to one's heart--when it was the very thing
to vex him most.  With great penitence, I went down, and the first person I encountered was
the very curate I had seen in my misterious village, much as if he had walked out of a story
book. On fraternizing, I found him to be a friend of Holdsworth.  Lady Oakstead is going to
take me, this afternoon, to see his church, &c., thoroughly; and behold, I learn from him that
she is a notable woman for doing good in her parish, never so happy as in trotting to cottages,
though her good deeds are always in the background. Thereupon, I ventured to attack her this
morning on cottage garniture, and obtained the very counsel I wanted about ovens and piggeries,
we began to get on together, and she is to put me up to all manner of information that I want
particularly.  I must go now, not to keep her waiting, never mind the first half of my letter--I
have no time to cancel it now.  I find my father wants to put in a note: don't believe a word
that he says, for I am much better to-day, body and mind.

     Goosey, goosey gander,
     Where shall we wander,

Anywhere, everywhere, to remain still
                     'Your most affectionate,
                                    'FITS GOSLING.'

Dear Aunt Kitty!  One of her failings was never to be able to keep a letter to herself.  She
fairly cried over her boy's troubles; and Mrs. Ponsonby would not have known whether to laugh
or cry but for James's doleful predictions, which were so sentimental as to turn even his grandmother
to the laughing party, and left him no sympathizer but Mary, who thought it very hard and cruel
to deride Louis when he was trying so earnestly to be good and suffering so much.  Why should
they all--Aunt Catharine herself--be merry over his thinking the spring-days of his life past
away, and trying so nobly and patiently to resign himself?

'It is the way of the world, Mary,' said James.  'People think they are laughing at the mistaking
a flock of sheep for the army of Pentapolin of the naked arm, when they are really sneering
at the lofty spirit taking the weaker side.  They involve the sublime temper in the ridiculous
accident, and laugh both alike to scorn.'

'Not mamma and Aunt Catharine,' said Mary.  'Besides, is not half the harm in the world done
by not seeing where the sublime is invaded by the ridiculous?'

'I see nothing ridiculous in the matter,' said James.  'His father has demanded an unjustifiable
sacrifice.  Fitzjocelyn yields and suffers.'

'I do believe Lord Ormersfield must relent; you see how pleased he is, saying that Louis's
conduct is exemplary.'

'He would sacrifice a dozen sons to one prejudice!'

'Perhaps Miss Conway will overcome the prejudice.  I am sure, if he thinks Louis's conduct
exemplary, Louis must have the sort of happiness he used to wish for most, and his father would
do his very best to gratify him.'

That sentence was Mary's cheval de bataille in her discussions with James, who could never
be alone with her without broaching the subject. The two cousins often walked together during
James's month at Northwold.  The town church was not very efficiently served, and was only
opened in the morning and late evening on Sundays, without any afternoon prayers, and James
was often in the habit of walking to Ormersfield church for the three o'clock service, and
asking Mary to join him.  Their return was almost always occupied in descriptions of Miss Conway's
perfections, and Mary learnt to believe that two beings, evidently compounded of every creature's
best, must be destined for each other.

'How well it is,' she thought, 'that I did not stand in the way.  Oh! how unhappy and puzzled
I should be now.  How thankful I am that dear mamma understood all for us so well!  How glad
I am that Louis is waiting patiently, not doing anything self-willed.  As long as his father
says he is exemplary, it must make one happy, and mamma will convince Lord Ormersfield.  It
will all turn out well; and how delightful it will be to see him quite happy and settled!'

Mary and her mother had by this time taken root at Dynevor Terrace, and formed an integral
part of the inhabitants.  Their newspaper went the round of the houses, their name was sent
to the Northwold book-club and enrolled among the subscribers to local charities, and Miss
Mercy Faithfull found that their purse and kitchen would bear deeper hauls than she could in
general venture upon.  Mary was very happy, working under her, and was a welcome and cheerful
visitor to the many sick, aged, and sorrowful to whom she introduced her.

If Mary could only have induced Aunt Melicent to come and see with her own eyes, to know Mrs.
Frost and the Faithfull sisters, and, above all, to see mamma in her own house, she thought
one of her most eager wishes would have been fulfilled.  But invite as she and her mother might,
they could not move Miss Ponsonby from Bryanstone Square.  Railroads and country were both
her dread; and she was not inclined, to overcome her fears on behalf of a sister-in-law whom
she forgave, but could not love.

'You must give it up, my dear,' said Mrs. Ponsonby.  'I let the time for our amalgamation pass.
Melicent and I were not tolerant of each other.  Since she has given you back to me, I can
love and respect her as I never did before; but a little breach in youth becomes too wide in
age for either repentance or your affection, my dear, to be able to span it.'

Mary saw what a relief it was that the invitations were not accepted, and though she was disappointed,
she blamed herself for having wished otherwise.  Tranquillity was such a boon to that wearied
spirit, each day was so much gain that went by without the painful, fluttered look of distress,
and never had Mrs. Ponsonby had so much quiet enjoyment with her daughter and her aunt.  Mary
was perfectly contented in seeing her better, and had no aims beyond the present trivial, commonplace
life, with so many to help by little ordinary services, and her mother serene and comfortable.
Placid, and yet active, she went busily through the day, and did not forget the new pleasures
to which Louis had opened her mind.  She took up his books without a pang, and would say, briskly
and unblushingly, to her mother, how strange it was that before she had been with him, she
had never liked at all, what she now cared for so much.

The winter portended no lack of excitement.  Miss Faithfull's rooms were engaged.  When Miss
Mercy ran in breathless to Mrs. Frost with the tidings, she little knew what feelings were
excited; the hope and fear, the doubt and curiosity; the sense of guilt towards the elder nephew,
in not preventing what she could not prevent, the rejoicing on behalf of the younger nephew;
the ladylike scorn of the motives that brought the lodgers; yet the warm feeling towards what
was dear to Louis and admired by Jem.

What a flapping and battering of carpets on the much-enduring stump! What furious activity
of Martha!  What eager help of little Charlotte, who was in a perfect trepidation of delight
at the rumour that a real beauty, fit for a heroine, was coming!  What trotting hither and
thither of Miss Mercy!  What netting of blinds and stitching of chintz by Miss Salome!  What
envy and contempt on the part of other landladies on hearing that Miss Faithfull's apartments
were engaged for the whole winter!  What an anxious progress was Miss Mercy's, when she conducted
Mrs. Frost and Mary to a final inspection! and what was her triumph when Mary, sitting down
on the well-stuffed arm-chair, pronounced that people who would not come there did not understand
what comfort was.

Every living creature gazed--Mrs. Frost through her blind, Mary behind her hydrangea in the
balcony, Charlotte from her attic window,--when the lodgers disembarked in full force--two
ladies, two children, one governess, three maids, two men, two horses, one King Charles's spaniel!
Let it be what it might, it was a grand windfall for the Miss Faithfulls.

Mary's heart throbbed as the first carriage thundered upon the gravel, and a sudden swelling
checked her voice as she was about to exclaim 'There she is!' when the second lady emerged,
and moved up the garden path.  She was veiled and mantled; but accustomed as was Mary's eye
to the Spanish figure and walk, the wonderful grace of movement and deportment struck her as
the very thing her eye had missed ever since she left Peru.  What the rest of the strangers
were like, she knew not; she had only eyes for the creature who had won Louis's affection,
and doubtless deserved it, as all else that was precious.

'So they are come, Charlotte,' said Mrs. Frost, as the maiden demurely brought in the kettle.

'Yes, ma'am;' and stooping to put the kettle on, and growing carnation-coloured over the fire.
'Oh, ma'am, I never saw such a young lady.  She is all one as the king's sister in The Lord
of the Isles!'

While the object of all this enthusiasm was arriving at the Terrace, she was chiefly conscious
that Sir Roland was sinking down on the ramparts of Acre, desperately wounded in the last terrible
siege; and she was considering whether palmer or minstrel should carry the tidings of his death
to Adeline.  It was her refuge from the unpleasant feelings, with which she viewed the experiment
of the Northwold baths upon Louisa's health.  As the carriage stopped, she cast one glance
at the row of houses, they struck her as dreary and dilapidated; she drew her mantle closer,
shivered, and walked into the house.  'Small rooms, dingy furniture-that is mamma's affair,'
passed through her mind, as she made a courteous acknowledgment of Miss Mercy's greeting, and
stood by the drawing-room fire.  'Roland slowly awoke from his swoon; a white-robed old man,
with a red eight-pointed cross on his breast, was bending over him.  He knew himself to be
in--I can't remember which tower the Hospitallers defended.  I wonder whether Marianne can
find the volume of Vertot.'

'Isabel, Isabel!' shrieked Virginia, who, with Louisa, had been roaming everywhere, 'here is
a discovery in the school-room!  Come!'

It was an old framed print of a large house, as much of a sham castle as the nature of things
would permit; and beneath were the words 'Cheveleigh, the seat of Roland Dynevor, Esquire.'

'There!' cried Virginia; 'you see it is a castle, a dear old feudal castle!  Think of that,
Isabel!  Why, it is as good as seeing Sir Roland himself, to have seen Mr. Dynevor Frost disinherited.
Oh! if his name were only Roland, instead of that horrid James!'

'His initials are J. R.,' said Isabel.  'It is a curious coincidence.'

'It only wants an Adeline to have the castle now,' said Louisa.  'Oh! there shall be an heiress,
and she shall be beautiful, and he shan't go crusading--he shall marry her.'

The sisters had not been aware that the school-room maid, who had been sent on to prepare,
was busy unpacking in a corner of the room. 'They say, Miss Louisa,' she interposed, 'that
Mr. Frost is going to be married to a great heiress--his cousin, Miss Ponsonby, at No. 7.'

Isabel requited the forwardness by silently leaving the room with the sisters, and Virginia
apologized for not having been more cautious than to lead to such subjects.  'It is all gossip,'
she said, angrily;  'Mr. Dynevor would never marry for money.'

'Nay, let us find in her an Adeline,' said Isabel.

The next day, Miss Mercy had hurried into No. 7, to declare that the ladies were all that was
charming, but that their servants gave themselves airs beyond credence, especially the butler,
who played the guitar, and insisted on a second table; when there was a peal of the bell, and
Mary from her post of observation 'really believed it was Lady Conway herself;' whereupon Miss
Mercy, without listening to persuasions, popped into the back drawing room to effect her retreat.

Lady Conway was all eagerness and cordiality, enchanted to renew her acquaintance, venturing
so early a call in hopes of prevailing on Mrs. Ponsonby to come out with her to take a drive.
She conjured up recollections of Mary's childhood, declared that she looked to her for drawing
Isabel out, and was extremely kind and agreeable.  Mary thought her delightful, with something
of Louis's charm of manner; and Mrs. Ponsonby believed it no acting, for Lady Conway was sincerely
affable and affectionate, with great warmth and kindness, and might have been all that was
excellent, had she started into life with a different code of duty.

So there was to be an intimacy.  For Fitzjocelyn's sake, as well as for the real good-nature
of the advances, Mrs. Ponsonby would not shrink back more than befitted her self-respect. 
Of that quality she had less than Mrs. Frost, who, with her innate punctilious spirit, avoided
all favours or patronage.  It was curious to see the gentle old lady fire up with all the dignity
of the Pendragons, at the least peril of incurring an obligation, and, though perfectly courteous,
easy, and obliging, she contrived to keep at a greater distance than if she had been mistress
of Cheveleigh.  There, she would have remembered that both she and Lady Conway were aunts to
Louis; at Northwold, her care was to become beholden for nothing that she could not repay.

Lady Conway did her best, when driving out with Mrs. Ponsonby, to draw her into confidence.
There were tender reminiscences from her heart of poor sweet Louisa, tearful inquiries respecting
her last weeks, certainties that Mrs. Ponsonby had been of great use to her; for, poor darling,
she had been thoughtless--so much to turn her head.  There was cause for regret in their own
education--there was then so much less attention to essentials.  Lady Conway could not have
borne to bring up her own girls as she herself and her sisters had grown up; she had chosen
a governess who made religion the first object, and she was delighted to see them all so attached
to her; she had never had any fears of their being too serious--people had learnt to be reasonable
now, did not insist on the impracticable, did not denounce moderate gaieties, as had once been
done to the alarm of poor Louisa.

Sweetest Louisa's son!  She could not speak too warmly of him, and she declared herself highly
gratified by Mr. Mansell's opinion of his modesty, attention, and good sense.  Mr. Mansell
was an excellent judge, he had such as opinion of Lord Ormersfield's public character.

And, at a safe interval, she mentioned the probability that Beauchastel might be settled on
Isabel, if she should marry so as to please Mr. Mansell: he cared for connexion more than for
wealth; if he had a weakness, it was for rank.

Mrs. Ponsonby thought it fair that the Earl should be aware of these facts.  He smiled ironically.

He left his card with his sister-in-law, and, to have it over while Louis was safe at Oxford,
invited the party to spend a day at Ormersfield, with Mrs. Frost to entertain them.  He was
far too considerate of the feelings that he attributed to the Ponsonbys to ask them to come;
and as three out of the six in company were more or less in a state of haughtiness and coolness,
Lady Conway's graces failed entirely; and poor innocent Virginia and Louisa protested that
they had never spent so dull a day, and that they could not believe their cousin Fitzjocelyn
could belong to such a tiresome place.

Isabel, who had undergone more dull days than they had, contrived to get through it by torturing
Adeline with utter silence of all tidings from the East, and by a swarm of suitors, with the
fantastic Viscount foremost.  She never was awake from her dream until Mr. Holdsworth came
to dinner, and was so straightforward and easy that he thawed every one.

Afterwards, he never failed to return an enthusiastic reply to the question that all the neighbourhood
were asking each other--namely, whether they had seen Miss Conway.

No one was a more devoted admirer than the Lady of Eschalott, whose webs had a bad chance when
there was one glimpse of Miss Conway to be obtained from the window, and the vision of whose
heart was that Mrs. Martha might some day let her stand in the housemaid's closet, to behold
her idol issue forth in the full glory of an evening dress--a thing Charlotte had read of,
but never seen anything nearer to it than Miss Walby coming to tea, and her own Miss Clara
in the scantiest of all white muslins.

But Mrs. Martha was in an unexampled state of vixenish crossness, and snapped venomously at
mild Mrs. Beckett for the kindest offers of sparing Charlotte to assist her in her multiplied
labours.  She seemed to be running after time all day long, with five dinners and teas upon
her hands, poor woman, and allowing herself not the slightest relaxation, except to rush in
for a few seconds to No. 7, to indulge herself by inveighing against the whole of the fine
servants; and yet she was so proud of having lodgers at all, that she hated them for nothing
so much as for threatening to go away.

The object of her bitterest invectives was the fastidious butler, Mr. Delaford, who by her
account could do nothing for himself, grudged her mistresses their very sitting-room, drank
wine with the ladies' maids like a gentleman, and ordered fish for the second table; talked
of having quitted a duke, and submitting to live with Lady Conway because he compassionated
unprotected females, and my Lady was dependent on him for the care of Sir Walter in the holidays.
To crown his offences, he never cleaned his own plate, but drew sketches and played the guitar!
Moreover, Mrs. Martha had her notions that he was making that sickly Frenchified maid of Miss
Conway's much too fond of him; and as to his calling himself Mr. Delaford--why, Mrs. Martha
had a shrewd suspicion that he was some kin to her first cousin's brother-in-law's shopman's
wife in Tottenham-court-road, whose name she knew was Ford, and who had been picked out of
a gutter!  The establishment of such a fact appeared as if it would be the triumph of Mrs.
Martha's life.  In the meantime, she more than hinted that she would wear herself to the bone
rather than let Charlotte Arnold into the house; and Jane, generally assenting, though seldom
going all lengths, used to divert the conversation by comparisons with Mr. Frampton's politeness
and consideration.  He never came to No. 5 to give trouble, only to help.

The invectives produced on Charlotte's mind an effect the reverse of what was intended.  Mr.
Delaford, a finer gentleman than Mr. Frampton and Mr. Poynings, must be a wonder of nature.
The guitar--redolent of serenades and Spanish cloaks--oh! but once to see and hear it! The
very rudeness of Mrs. Martha's words, so often repeated, gave her a feeling in favour of their
object.  She had known Mrs. Martha unjust before. Poor Tom! if he had only been a Spaniard,
he would have sung about the white dove--his pretty thought--in a serenade, but then he might
have poignarded Mr. James in his passion, which would have been less agreeable--she supposed
he had forgotten her long ago--and so much the better!

It was a Sunday evening.  Every one was gone to church except Charlotte, who was left to keep
house.  Though November, it was not cold, the day had been warm and showery, and the full moon
had risen in the most glorious brightness, riding in a sky the blue of which looked almost
black by contrast with her brilliancy.  Charlotte stood at the back door, gazing at the moon
walking in brightness, and wandered into the garden, to enjoy what to her was beyond all other
delights, reading Gessner's Death of Abel by moonlight.  There was quite sufficient light,
even if she had not known the idyll almost by heart; and in a trance of dreamy, undefined delight,
she stood beside the dark ivy-covered wall, each leaf glistening in the moonbeams, which shed
a subdued pearliness over her white apron and collar, paled but gave a shadowy refinement to
her features, and imparted a peculiar soft golden gloss to the fair braids of hair on her modest
brow.

A sound of opening the back gate made her give one of her violent starts; but before she could
spring into the shelter of the house, she was checked by the civil words, 'I beg your pardon,
I was mistaken--I took this for No. 8.'

'Three doors off--' began Charlotte, discovering, with a shy thrill of surprise and pleasure,
that she had been actually accosted by the great Mr. Delaford; and the moonlight, quite as
becoming to him as to her, made him an absolute Italian count, tall, dark, pale, and whiskered.
He did not go away at once, he lingered, and said softly, 'I perceive that you partake my own
predilection for the moonlight hour.'

Charlotte would have been delighted, had it not been a great deal harder to find an answer
than if the old Lord had asked her a question; but she simpered and blushed, which probably
did just as well.  Mr. Delaford supposed she knew the poet's lines--

     'How sweet the moonlight sleeps on yonder bank--'

'Oh yes, sir--so sweet!' exclaimed the Lady of Eschalott, under her breath, though yonder bank
was only represented by the chequer-work of Mrs. Ponsonby's latticed trellis; and Mr. Delaford
proceeded to quote the whole passage, in a deep mellow voice, but with a great deal of affectation;
and Charlotte gasped, 'So beautiful!'

'I perceive that you have a fine taste for poetry,' said Mr. Delaford, so graciously, that
Charlotte presumed to say, 'Oh, sir! is it true that you can play the guitar?'

He smiled upon her tone of veneration, and replied, 'a trifle--a little instrumental melody
was a great resource.  If his poor performance would afford her any gratification, he would
fetch his guitar.'

'Oh, sir--thank you--a psalm-tune, perhaps.  It is Sunday--if you would be so kind.'

He smiled superciliously as he regretted that his music was not of that description, and Charlotte
felt ready to sink into the earth at the indignity she had done the guitar in forgetting that
it could accompany anything but such songs as Valancourt sang to Emily.  She begged his pardon
humbly; and he declared that he had a great respect for a lady's scruples, and should be happy
to meet her another evening.  'If Mrs. Beckett would allow her,' said Charlotte, overpowered
with gratitude: 'there would be the moon full to-morrow--how delightful!'  He could spare a
short interval between the dinner and the tea; and with this promise he took leave.

Honest little Charlotte told Mrs. Beckett the whole story, and all her eager wishes for to-morrow
evening; and Jane sighed and puzzled herself, and knew it would make Martha very angry, but
could not help being goodnatured.  Jane had a great deference for Martha's strong, rough character;
but then Martha had never lived in a great house, and did not know 'what was what,' nor the
difference between 'low people' and upper servants.   So Jane acted chaperon as far as her
easy discretion went, and had it to say to her own conscience, and to the angry Martha, that
he never said one word that need offend any young woman.

There was a terrible storm below-stairs in the House Beautiful at the idea of Delaford taking
up with Mrs. Frost's little kitchen-maid--Delaford, the lady's-maid killer par excellence,
wherever Lady Conway went, and whose coquetries whitened the cheeks of Miss Conway's poor Marianne,
the object of his attentions whenever he had no one else in view.  He had not known Charlotte
to be a kitchen-maid when he first beheld her, and her fair beauty and retiring grace had had
full scope, assisted by her veneration for himself; and now the scorn of the grand Mrs. Fanshawe,
and the amusement of teasing Marianne, only made him the more bent on patronizing 'the little
rustic,' as he called her.  He was deferential to Mrs. Beckett, who felt herself in her element
in discussing plate, china, and large establishments with him; and he lent books, talked poetry,
and played the guitar to Charlotte, and even began to take her portrait, with her mouth all
on one side.

Delaford was an admirable servant, said the whole Conway family; he was trusted as entirely
as he represented, and Lady Conway often gave him charge over her son in sports and expeditions
beyond ladies' management: he was, in effect, nearly the ruler of the household, and never
allowed his lady to go anywhere if he did not approve.  If it had not been for the 'little
rustic's' attractions, perhaps he might have made strong demonstrations against the House Beautiful.
Little did Miss Faithfull know the real cause of her receiving or retaining her lodgers.

CHAPTER XV.

MOTLEY THE ONLY WEAR.

  For better far than passion's glow,
    Or aught of worldly choice,
  To listen His own will to know,
    And, listening, hear his voice.
                  The Angel of Marriage--REV. I. WILLIAMS.

The friendships that grew up out of sight were far more effective than anything that Lady Conway
could accomplish on the stage.  Miss King and the Miss Faithfulls found each other out at once,
and the governess was entreated to knock at the door at the bottom of the stairs whenever her
pupils could spare her.

Then came eager wishes from her pupils to be admitted to the snuggery, and they were invited
to see the curiosities.  Isabel believed the 'very good' was found, and came with her sisters.
She begged to be allowed to help in their parish work, under Miss Mercy Faithfull's guidance;
and Sir Roland stood still, while she fancied she was learning to make little frocks, but really
listening to their revelations of so new a world.  She went out with Miss Mercy--she undertook
a class and a district, and began to be happier than ever before; though how much of the absolute
harder toil devolved on Miss King, neither she nor the governess understood.

This led to intercourse with Mary Ponsonby; and Isabel was a very different person in that
homely, friendly parlour, from the lofty, frigid Miss Conway of the drawing-room.  Cold hauteur
melted before Mary's frank simplicity, and they became friends as fast as two ladies could
beyond the age of romantic plunges, where on one side there was good-will without enthusiasm,
on the other enthusiasm and reserve. They called each other 'Miss Conway' and 'Miss Ponsonby,'
and exchanged no family secrets; but they were, for all that, faster friends than young ladies
under twenty might imagine.

One winter's day, the crisp, exhilarating frost had lured them far along the high road beyond
Mr. Calcott's park palings, talking over Isabel's favourite theme, what to wish for her little
brother, when the sound of a large clock striking three made Isabel ask where she was.

'It was the stable clock at Ormersfield,' said Mary, 'did you not know we were on that road?'

'No, I did not.'  And Isabel would have turned, but Mary begged her to take a few steps up
the lane, that they might see how Lord Fitzjocelyn's new cottages looked.  Isabel complied,
and added, after a pause, 'Are you one of Lord Fitzjocelyn's worshippers?'

'I should not like to worship any one,' said Mary, looking straightforward.  'I am very fond
of him, because I have known him all my life.  And he is so good!'

'Then I think I may consider you exempt!  It is the only fault I have to find with Northwold.
You are the only person who does not rave about him--the only person who has not mentioned
his name.'

'Have I not?  I think that was very unkind of me--'

'Very kind to me,' said Isabel.

'I meant, to him,' said Mary, blushing; 'if you thought that I did not think most highly of him--'

'Don't go on!  I was just going to trust to you for a calm, dispassionate statement of his
merits, and I shall soon lose all my faith in you.'

'My mother--' began Mary; but just then Lord Ormersfield came forth from one of the cottages,
and encountered the young ladies.  He explained that Fitzjocelyn was coming home next week,
and he had come to see how his last orders had been executed, since Frampton and the carpenter
had sometimes chosen to think for themselves.  He was very anxious that all should be right,
and, after a few words, revealed a perplexity about ovens and boilers, in which Mary's counsel
would be invaluable.  So, with apologies and ceremonies to Miss Conway, they entered, and Isabel
stood waiting in the dull kitchen, smelling of raw plaster, wondering at the extreme eagerness
of the discussion with the mason over the yawning boiler, the Earl referring to his son's letter,
holding it half-a-yard off, and at last giving it to Mary to decipher by the waning light.

So far had it waned, that when the fixtures had all been inspected, Lord Ormersfield declared
that the young ladies must not return alone, and insisted on escorting them home.  Every five
minutes some one thought of something to say: there was an answer, and by good luck a rejoinder;
then all died away, and Mary pondered how her mother would in her place have done something
to draw the two together, but she could not.  She feared the walk had made Isabel more adverse
to all connected with Ormersfield than even previously; for the Ormersfield road was avoided,
and the question as to Fitzjocelyn's merits was never renewed.

Mary thought his cause would be safest in the hands of his great champion, who was coming home
from Oxford with him, and was to occupy his vacation in acting tutor to little Sir Walter Conway.
Louis came, the day after his return, with his father, to make visits in the Terrace, and was
as well-behaved and uninteresting as morning calling could make him.   He was looking very
well--his general health quite restored, and his ankle much better; though he was still forbidden
to ride, and could not walk far.

'You must come and see me, Aunt Kitty,' he said; 'I am not available for coming in to see you.
I'm reading, and I've made a resignation of myself,' he added, with a slight blush, and debonnaire
shrug, glancing to see that his father was occupied with James.

They were to dine with Lady Conway on the following Tuesday.  In the interim, no one beheld
them except Jem, who walked to Ormersfield once or twice for some skating for his little pupil
Walter, and came back reporting that Louis had sold himself, body and soul, to his father.

Clara came home, a degree more civilized, and burning to confide to Louis that she had thought
of his advice, had been the less miserable for it, and had much more on which to consult him.
She could not conceive why even grandmamma would not consent to her accompanying the skaters;
though she was giving herself credit for protesting that she was not going on the ice, only
to keep poor Louis company, while the others were skating.

She was obliged to defer her hopes of seeing him until Tuesday, when she had been asked to
drink tea in the school-room, and appear in the evening.  Mrs. Frost had consented, as a means
of exempting herself from the party.  And Clara's incipient feminine nature began to flutter
at her first gaiety.  The event was magnified by a present from Jem, of a broad rose-coloured
sash and white muslin dress, with a caution that she was not to consider the tucks up to the
waist as a provision for future growth.

She flew to exhibit the finery to the Miss Faithfulls, and to consult on the making-up, and,
to her consternation, was caught by Miss Conway kneeling on the floor, being measured by Miss
Salome.  To Isabel, there was a sort of touching novelty in the simplicity that could glory
in pink ribbon when embellished by being a brother's gift; she looked on with calm pleasure
at such homely excitement, and even fetched some bows of her own, for examples, and offered
to send Marianne down with patterns.

Clara was enchanted to recognise in Miss Conway the vision of the Euston-square platform. 
The grand, quiet style of beauty was exactly fitted to impress a mind like hers, so strongly
imbued with sentiments like those of Louis, and regarding Isabel as necessarily Louis's destiny,
she began to adore her accordingly, with a girl-reverence, quite as profound, far more unselfish,
and little less ardent than that of man for woman.  That a female vision of perfection should
engross Clara's imagination, was a step towards softening her; but, poor child! the dawn of
womanhood was to come in a painful burst.

Surprised at her own aspect, with her light hair dressed by Jane and wreathed with ivy leaves
by grandmamma, and her skirts so full that she could not refrain from making a gigantic cheese,
she was inspected and admired by granny and Jane, almost approved by Jem himself; and, exalted
by the consciousness of being well-dressed, she repaired to the school-room tea at the House
Beautiful.

Virginia and Louisa were, she thought, very poor imitations of Louis's countenance--the one
too round, the other too thin and sallow; but both they, their brother, and Miss King were
so utterly unlike anything at school, that she was at once at ease, and began talking with
Walter over schoolboy fun, in which he could not be a greater proficient than herself.  Walter
struck up a violent friendship for her on the spot, and took to calling her 'a fellow,' in
oblivion of her sex; and Virginia and Louisa fell into ecstasies of laughter, which encouraged
Clara and Walter to compote with each other which should most astonish their weak minds.

In the drawing-room, Lady Conway spoke so graciously, that Clara, was quite distressed at looking
over her head.  Mary looked somewhat oppressed, saying her mother had not been so well that
day; and she was disposed to keep in the background, and occupy herself with Clara; but it
was quite contrary to the Giraffe's notions to be engrossed by any one when Louis was coming.
As if she had divined Mary's intentions of keeping her from importuning him, she was continually
gazing at the door, ready at once to claim his attention.

At first, the gentlemen only appeared in a black herd at the door, where Mr. Calcott had stopped
Lord Ormersfield short, in his eagerness to impress on him the views of the county on a police-bill
in course of preparation for the next session.  The other magistrates congregated round; but
James Frost and Sydney Calcott had slipped past, to the piano where Lady Conway had sent Miss
Calcott and Isabel.  'Why did not Fitzjocelyn, come too?' was murmured by the young group in
the recess opposite the door; and when at last he became visible, leaning against the wall,
listening to the Squire, Virginia declared he was going to serve them just as he used at Beauchastel.

'Oh, no! he shan't--I'll rescue him!' exclaimed Clara; and leaping up to her cameleopard attitude,
she sprang forward, and, with a voice audible in an unlucky lull of the music, she exclaimed,
'Louis! Louis! don't you see that I am here?'

As he turned, with a look of surprise and almost rebuke, her own words came back to her ears
as they must have sounded to others; her face became poppy-coloured, nothing light but her
flaxen eyebrows; and she scarcely gave her hand to be shaken.  'No, I did not know you were
coming,' he said; and almost partaking her confusion, as he felt all eyes upon her, he looked
in vain for a refuge for her.

How welcome was Mary's kind face and quiet gesture, covering poor Clara's retreat as she sank
into a dark nook, sheltered by the old black cabinet!  Louis thanked Mary by a look, as much
as to say, 'Just like you,' and was glad to perceive that James had not been present. He had
gone to ask Miss Faithfull to supply the missing stanzas of a Jacobite song, and just then
returned, saying that she knew them, but could not remember them.

Fitzjocelyn, however, capped the fragment, and illustrated it with some anecdotes that interested
Miss Conway.  James had great hopes that she was going to see him to the best advantage, but
still there was a great drawback in the presence of Sydney Calcott.  Idolized at home, successful
abroad, young Calcott had enough of the prig to be a perpetual irritation to Jem Frost, all
the more because he could never make Louis resent, nor accept, as other than natural, the goodnatured
supercilious patronage of the steady distinguished senior towards the idle junior.

Jacobite legends and Stuart relics would have made Miss Conway oblivious of everything else;
but Sydney Calcott must needs divert the conversation from that channel by saying, 'Ah! there
Fitzjocelyn is in his element.  He is a perfect handbook to the byways of history.'

'For the diffusion of useless knowledge?' said Louis.

'Illustrated by the examination, when the only fact you could adduce about the Argonauts was
that Charles V. founded the order of the Golden Fleece.'

'I beg your pardon; it was his great-grandfather.  I had read my Quentin Durward too well for
that.'

'I suspect,' said Isabel, 'that we had all rather be examined in our Quentin Durward than our
Charles V.

'Ah!' said young Calcott, 'I had all my dates at my fingers' ends when I went up for the modern
history prize.  Now my sister could beat me.'

'A proof of what I always say,' observed Louis, 'that it is lost labour to read for an examination.'

'From personal experience?' asked Sydney.

'A Strasburg goose nailed down and crammed before a fire, becomes a Strasburg pie,' said Louis.

Never did Isabel look more bewildered, and Sydney did not seem at once to catch the meaning.
James added, 'A goose destined to fulfil the term of existence is not crammed, but the pie
stimulus is not required to prevent it from starving.'

'Is your curious and complimentary culinary fable aimed against reading or against examinations?'
asked Sydney.

'Against neither; only against the connecting preposition.'

'Then you mean to find a superhuman set of students?'

'No; I'm past that.  Men and examinations will go on as they are; the goose will run wild,
the requirements will be increased, he will nail himself down in his despair; and he who crams
hardest, and has the hottest place will gain.'

'Then how is the labour lost?' asked Isabel.

'You are new to Fitzjocelyn's paradoxes,' said Sydney; as if glorying in having made Louis
contradict himself.

'The question is, what is lost labour?' said Louis.

Both Sydney Calcott and Miss Conway looked as if they thought he was arguing on after a defeat.
'Calcott is teaching her his own obtuseness!' thought James, in a pet; and he exclaimed, 'Is
the aim to make men or winners of prizes?'

'The aim of prizes is commonly supposed to be to make men,' loftily observed Sydney.

'Exactly so; and, therefore, I would not make them too analogous to the Strasburg system,'
said Louis.  'I would have them close, searching, but not admitting of immediate cramming.'

'Pray how would you bring that about?'

'By having no subject on which superficial knowledge could make a show.'

'Oh!  I see whither you are working round!  That won't do now, my dear fellow; we must enlarge
our field, or we shall lay ourselves open to the charge of being narrow-minded.'

'You have not strength of mind to be narrow-minded!' said Louis, shaking his head.  'Ah! well,
I have no more to say; my trust is in the narrow mind, the only expansive one--'

He was at that moment called away; Lord Ormersfield's carriage had been announced, and his
son was not in a quarter of the room where he wished to detain him.  James could willingly
have bitten Sydney Calcott for the observation, 'Poor Fitzjocelyn! he came out strong to-night.'

'Very clever,' said Isabel, wishing to gratify James.

'Oh yes, very; if he had ever taken pains,' said Sydney.  'There is often something in his
paradoxes.  After all, I believe he is reading hard for his degree, is he not, Jem?  His feelings
would not be hurt by the question, for he never piqued himself upon his consistency.'

Luckily for the general peace, the Calcott household was on the move, and Jem solaced himself
on their departure by exclaiming, 'Well done, Strasburg system!  A high-power Greek-imbibing
machine, he may be, but as to comprehending Fitzjocelyn--'

'Nay,' said Isabel, 'I think Lord Fitzjocelyn ought to carry about a pocket expositor, if he
will be so very startling.   He did not stay to tell us what to understand by narrow minds.'

'Did you ever hear of any one good for anything, that was not accused of a narrow mind?' exclaimed
James.

'If that were what he meant,' said Isabel,--'but he said his trust was in the narrow mind--'

'In what is popularly so called,' said James.

'I think,' said Mary, leaning forward, and speaking low, 'that he did not mean it to be explained
away.  I think he was going to say that the heart may be wide, but the mind must be so far
narrow, that it will accept only the one right, not the many wrong.'

'I thought narrowness of mind consisted in thinking your own way the only right one,' said Isabel.

'Every one says so,' said Mary, 'and that is why he says it takes strength of mind to be narrow-minded.
Is not the real evil, the judging people harshly, because their ways are not the same; not
the being sure that the one way is the only right!  Others may be better than ourselves, and
may be led right in spite of their error, but surely we are not to think all paths alike--

'And is that Lord Fitzjocelyn's definition of a narrow mind?' said Isabel.  'It sounds like
faith and love.  Are you sure you did not make it yourself, Miss Ponsonby?'

'I could not,' said Mary, blushing, as she remembered one Sunday evening when he had said something
to that effect, which had insensibly overthrown the theory in which she had been bred up, namely,
that all the sincere were right, and yet that, practically every one was to be censured, who
did not act exactly like Aunt Melicent.

She rose to take leave, and Clara clung to her, emerging from the shade of her cabinet with
colour little mitigated since her disappearance. James would have come with them, but was detained
by Lady Conway for a few moments longer than it took them to put on their shawls; and Clara
would not wait.  She dragged Mary down the steps into the darkness, and groaned out, 'O Mary,
he can never speak to me again!'

'My dear! he will not recollect it.  It was very awkward, but new places and new people often
do make us forget ourselves.'

'Everybody saw, everybody heard!  O, I shall never bear to meet one of them again!'

'I think very few saw or heard--' began Mary.

'He did!  I did!  That's enough!  The rest is nothing!  I have been as bad as any one at school!
I shall never hold up my head there again as I have done, and Louis!  Oh!'

'Dear child, it will not be remembered.  You only forgot how tall you were, and that you were
not at home.  He knows you too well to care.'

James shouted from behind to know why they had not been let into the house; and as Clara rushed
in at the door and he walked on with Mary to leave her at home and fetch his grandmother, who
had been spending the evening with Mrs. Ponsonby, he muttered, 'I don't know which is most
intolerable!  He neglects her, talks what, if it be not nonsense, might as well be; and as
if she were not ready enough to misunderstand, Sydney Calcott must needs thrust in his wits
to embroil her understanding.  Mary! can't you get her to see the stuff he is made of?'

'If she cannot do that for herself, no persuasion of mine will make her,' said Mary.

'No! you do not half appreciate him either!  No one does!  And yet you could, if you tried,
do something with her!  I see she does not think you prejudiced.  You made an impression to-night.'

Mary felt some consternation.  Could it depend on her?   She could speak naturally, and from
her heart in defence of Louis when occasion served; but something within her forbade the thought
of doing so on a system.  Was that something wrong!  She could not answer; but contented herself
with the womanly intuition that showed her that anything of persuasion in the present state
of affairs would be ineffectual and unbecoming.

Meantime, Clara had fled to her little room, to bid her childhood farewell in a flood of bitter
tears.

Exaggerated shame, past disdain of the foibles of others, the fancy that she was publicly disgraced
and had forfeited Louis's good opinion, each thought renewed her sobs; but the true pang was
the perception that old times were passed for ever.  He might forgive, he would still be friend
and cousin; but womanhood had broken on her, and shown that perfect freedom was at an end.
Happy for her that she wept but for the parting from a playfellow!  Happy that her feelings
were young and undeveloped, free from all the cruel permanence that earlier vanity or self-consciousness
might have given; happy that it could be so freely washed away!  When she had spent her sobs,
she could resolve to be wise and steady, so as to be a fit governess to his children; and the
tears flowed at the notion of being so distant and respectful to his lordship.  But what stories
she could tell them of his boyhood!  And in the midst of--'Now, my dears, I will tell you about
your papa when he was a little boy,' she fell asleep.

That party was a thing to be remembered with tingling cheeks for life, and Clara dreaded her
next meeting with Louis; but the days passed on without his coming to the Terrace, and the
terror began to wear off, especially as she did not find that any one else remembered her outbreak.
Mary guarded against any unfavourable impression by a few simple words to Isabel and Miss King
as to the brotherly terms that had hitherto prevailed, and poor Clara's subsequent distress.
Clara came in for some of the bright tints in which her brother was viewed at the House Beautiful;
Walter was very fond of her, and she had been drawn into a friendship for Virginia, cemented
in the course of long walks, when the schoolroom party always begged for Mr. and Miss Dynevor,
because no one else could keep Walter from disturbing Louisa's nerves by teasing her pony or
sliding on dubious ice.

As Mrs. Ponsonby often joined in Lady Conway's drive, Mary and Isabel were generally among
the walkers; and Mary was considered by Louisa as an inestimable pony-leader, and an inexhaustible
magazine of stories about sharks, earthquakes, llamas, and icebergs.

James and Miss Conway generally had either book or principle to discuss, and were usually to
be found somewhat in the rear, either with or without Miss King.  One day, however, James gave
notice that he should not be at their service that afternoon; and as soon as Walter's lessons
had been despatched, he set out with rapid steps for Ormersfield Park, clenching his teeth
together every now and then with his determinate resolution that he would make Louis know his
own mind, and would 'stand no nonsense.'

'Ah!  James, good morning,' said the Earl, as he presented himself in the study.  'You will
find Louis in his room.  I wish you would make him come out with you.  He is working harder
than is good for him.'

He spoke of his son far differently from former times; but Jem only returned a judiciously
intoned 'Poor fellow.'

Lord Ormersfield looked at him anxiously, and, hesitating, said, 'You do not think him out
of spirits?'

'Oh, he carries it off very well.  I know no one with so strong a sense of duty,' replied Jem,
never compassionate to the father.

Again the Earl paused, then said, 'He may probably speak more unreservedly to you than to me.'

'He shuns the topic.  He says there is no use in aggravating the feelings by discussion.  He
would fain submit in heart as well as in will.'

Lord Ormersfield sighed, but did not appear disposed to say more; and, charitably hoping that
a dagger had been implanted in him, Jem ran up-stairs, and found Louis sitting writing at a
table, which looked as if Mary had never been near it.

'Jem!  That's right!  I've not seen you this age.'

'What are you about?'

'I wanted particularly some one to listen.  It is an essay on the Police--'

'Is this earnest?'

'Sober earnest.  Sir Miles and all that set are anxious to bring the matter forward, and my
father has been getting it up, as he does whatever he may have to speak upon.  His eyes are
rather failing for candle-light work, so I have been helping him in the evening, till it struck
me that it was a curious subject to trace in history,--the Censors, the attempts in Germany
and Spain, to supply the defective law, the Spanish and Italian dread of justice.  I became
enamoured of the notion, and when I have thrown all the hints together, I shall try to take
in my father by reading them to him as an article in the Quarterly.'

'Oh, very well. If your soul is there, that is an end of the matter.'

'Of what matter?'

'Things cannot run on in this way.  It is not a thing to lay upon me to go on working in your
cause with her when you will not stir a step in your own behalf.'

'I am very much obliged to you, but I never asked you to work in my cause.  I beg your pardon,
Jem, don't fly into a Welsh explosion.  No one ever meant more kindly and generously--' He
checked himself in amaze at the demonstration he had elicited; but, as it was not accompanied
with words, he continued, 'No one can be more grateful to you than I; but, as far as I can
see, there is nothing for it but to be thankful that no more harm has been done, and to let
the matter drop;' and he dropped his hand with just so much despondency as to make Jem think
him worth storming at, instead of giving him up; and he went over the old ground of Louis being
incapable of true passion and unworthy of such a being if he could yield her without an effort,
merely for the sake of peace.

'I say, Jem,' said Louis, quietly, 'all this was bad enough on neutral ground; it is mere treason
under my father's own roof, and I will have no more of it.'

'Then,' cried James, with a strange light in his eyes, 'you henceforth renounce all hopes--all
pretensions?'

'I never had either hope or pretension.  I do not cease to think her, as I always did, the
loveliest creature I ever beheld.  I cannot help that; and the state I fell into after being
with her on Tuesday, convinced me that it is safest to stay here and fill up time and thought
as best I may.'

'For once, Fitzjocelyn,' said James, with a gravity not natural to him, 'I think better of
your father than you do.  I would neither treat him as so tyrannical nor so prejudiced as your
conduct supposes him.'

'How?  He is as kind as possible.  We never had so much in common.'

'Yes.  Your submission so far, and the united testimony of the Terrace, will soften him.  Show
your true sentiments.  A little steadiness and perseverance, and you will prevail.'

'Don't make me feverish, Jem.'

A summons to Lord Fitzjocelyn to come down to a visitor in the library cut short the discussion,
and James took leave at once, neither cousin wishing to resume the conversation.

The darts had not been injudiciously aimed.  The father and son were both rendered uneasy.
They had hitherto been unusually comfortable together, and though the life was unexciting,
Louis's desire to be useful to his father, and the pressing need of working for his degree,
kept his mind fairly occupied.  Though wistful looks might sometimes be turned along the Northwold
road, when he sallied forth in the twilight for his constitutional walk, he did not analyse
which number of the Terrace was the magnet, and he avoided testing to the utmost the powers
of his foot.  The affection and solicitude shown for him at home claimed a full return; nor
had James been greatly mistaken in ascribing something to the facility of nature that yielded
to force of character. But Jem had stirred up much that Louis would have been contented to
leave dormant; and the hope that he had striven to excite came almost teazingly to interfere
with the passive acquiescence of an indolent will.  Perturbed and doubtful, he was going to
seek counsel as usual of the open air, as soon as the visitor was gone, but his father followed
him into the hall, asking whither he was going.

'I do not know.  I had been thinking of trying whether I can get as far as Marksedge.'

Marksedge would be fatal to the ankle, solitude to the spirits, thought the Earl; and he at
once declared his intention of walking with his son as far as he should let him go.

Louis was half vexed, half flattered, and they proceeded in silence, till conscious of being
ruffled, and afraid of being ungracious, he made a remark on the farm that they were approaching,
and learnt in return that the lease was nearly out, the tenant did not want a renewal, and
that Richardson intended to advertise.

He breathed a wish that it were in their own hands, and this led to a statement of the condition
of affairs, the same to which a year before he had been wilfully deaf, and to which he now
attended chiefly for the sake of gratifying his father, though he better understood what depended
on it.  At least, it was making the Earl insensible to the space they were traversing, and
the black outlines of Marksedge were rising on him before he was aware.  Then he would have
turned, but Louis pleaded that having come so far, he should be glad to speak to Madison's
grandfather, and one or two other old people, and he prevailed.

Lord Ormersfield was not prepared for the real aspect of the hamlet.

'Richardson always declared that the cottages were kept in repair,' he said.

'Richardson never sees them.  He trusts to Reeves.'

'The people might do something themselves to keep the place decent.'

'They might; but they lose heart out of sight of respectability.  I will just knock at this
door--I will not detain you a moment.'

The dark smoky room, damp, ill-paved floor, and cracked walls produced their effect; and the
name and voice of the inmate did more. Lord Ormersfield recognised a man who had once worked
in the garden, and came forward and spoke, astonished and shocked to find him prematurely old.
The story was soon told; there had been a seasoning fever as a welcome to the half-reclaimed
moorland; ague and typhus were frequent visitors, and disabling rheumatism a more permanent
companion to labourers exhausted by long wet walks in addition to the daily toil. At an age
less than that of the Earl himself, he beheld a bowed and broken cripple.

Fitzjocelyn perceived his victory, and forebore to press it too hastily, lest he should hurt
his father's feelings; and walked on silently, thinking how glad Mary would be to hear of this
expedition, and what a pity it was that the unlucky passage of last August should have interfered
with their comfortable friendship.  At last the Earl broke silence by saying, 'It is very unfortunate;'
and Louis echoed, 'Very.'

'My poor Uncle Dynevor!  He was, without exception, the most wrong-headed person I ever came
in contact with, yet so excessively plausible and eager that he carried my poor father entirely
along with him.  Louis! nothing is so ruinous as to surrender the judgment.'

Fully assenting, Louis wondered whether Marksedge would serve no purpose save the elucidation
of this truism, and presently another ensued.

'Mischief is sooner done than repaired.  As I have been allowing you, there has never been
ready money at command.'

'I thought there were no more mortgages to be paid off.  The rents of the Fitzjocelyn estate
and the houses in the lower town must come to something.'

He was then told how these, with his mother's fortune, had been set apart to form a fund for
his establishment, and for the first time he was shown the object of arrangements against which
he had often in heart rebelled.  His first impulse was to exclaim that it was a great pity,
and that he could not bear that his father should have denied himself on his account.

'Do you think these things are sacrifices to me?' said the Earl.  'My habits were formed long ago.'

'Mine have been formed on yours,' said Louis.  'I should be encumbered by such an income as
you propose unless you would let me lay it out in making work for the men and improving the
estate, and that I had rather you undertook, for I should be certain to do something preposterous,
and then be sorry.'

'Mrs. Ponsonby judged rightly.  It was her very advice.'

'Then!' cried Louis, as if the deed were done.

'You would not find the income too large in the event of your marriage.'

'A most unlikely event!'

His father glanced towards him. If there had been a symptom of unhappiness, relenting was near,
but it so chanced that Marksedge was reigning supreme, and he was chiefly concerned to set
aside the supposition as an obstacle to his views.  The same notion as James Frost's occurred
to the Earl, that it could not be a tenacious character which could so easily set aside an
attachment apparently so fervent, but the resignation was too much in accordance with his desires
to render him otherwise than gratified, and he listened with complacency to Louis's plans.
Nothing was fixed, but there was an understanding that all should have due consideration.

This settled, Louis's mind recurred to the hint which his father had thrown out, and he wondered
whether it meant that the present compliance might be further stretched, but he thought it
more likely to be merely a reference to ordinary contingencies.  Things were far too comfortable
between him and his father to be disturbed by discussion, and he might ultimately succeed better
by submitting, and leaving facts and candour to remove prejudice.

To forget perplexity in the amusement of a mystification, he brought down his essay, concealing
it ingeniously within a review flanked by blue-books, and, when Lord Ormersfield was taking
out a pair of spectacles with the reluctance of a man not yet accustomed to them, he asked
him if he would like to hear an article on the Police question.

At first the Earl showed signs of nodding, and said there was nothing to the purpose in all
the historical curiosities at the outset, so that Louis, alarmed lest he should absolutely
drop asleep, skipped all his favourite passages, and came at once to the results of the recent
inquiries.  The Earl was roused.  Who could have learnt those facts? That was telling--well
put, but how did he get hold of it. The very thing he had said himself--What Quarterly was
it?  Surely the Christmas number was not out.  Hitherto Louis had kept his countenance and
voice, but in an hiatus, where he was trying to extemporize, his father came to look over his
shoulder to see what ailed the book, and, glancing upwards with a merry debonnaire face, he
made a gesture as if convicted.

'Do you mean that this is your own composition?'

'I beg your pardon for the pious fraud!'

'It is very good!  Excellently done!' said Lord Ormersfield.  'There are redundancies--much
to betray an unpractised hand--but--stay, let me hear the rest--' Very differently did he listen
now, broad awake, attacking the logic of every third sentence, or else double shotting it with
some ponderous word, and shaking his head at Utopian views of crime to be dried up at the fountain
head.  Next, he must hear the beginning, and ruthlessly picked it to pieces, demolishing all
the Vehme Gericht and Santissima Hermandad as irrelevant, and, when he had made Louis ashamed
and vexed with the whole production, astonishing him by declaring that it would tell, and advising
him to copy it out fair with these little alterations.

These little alterations would, as he was well aware, evaporate all the spirit, and though
glad to have pleased his father, his perseverance quailed before the task; but he said no more
than thank you.  The next day, before he had settled to anything, Lord Ormersfield came to
his room, saying, 'You will be engaged with your more important studies for the next few hours.
Can you spare the paper you read to me last night?'

'I can spare it better than you can read it, I fear,' said Louis, producing a mass of blotted
MS in all his varieties of penmanship, and feeling a sort of despair at the prospect of being
brought to book on all his details.

His father carried it off, and they did not meet again till late in the day, when the first
thing Louis heard was, 'I thought it worth while to have another opinion on your manuscript
before re-writing it.  I tried to read it to Mrs. Ponsonby, but we were interrupted, and I
left it with her.'

Presently after.  'I have made an engagement for you.  Lady Conway wishes that you should go
to luncheon with her to-morrow.  I believe she wants to consult you about some birth-day celebration.'

Louis was much surprised, and somewhat entertained.

'When will you have the carriage?' pursued the Earl.

'Will not you come?'

'No, I am not wanted.  In fact, I do not see how you can be required, but anything will serve
as an excuse.  In justice, however, I should add that our friends at the Terrace are disposed
to think well of the younger part of the family.'

Except for the cold constraint of the tone, Louis could have thought much ground gained, but
he was sure that his holiday would be damped by knowing that it was conceded at the cost of
much distress and uneasiness.

Going to Northwold early enough for a call at No. 5, he was greeted by Mrs. Frost with, 'My
dear! what have you been about?  I never saw your father so much pleased in his life!  He came
in on purpose to tell me, and I thought it exceedingly kind.  So you took him in completely.
What an impudent rogue you always were!'

'I never meant it to go beyond the study.  I was obliged to write it down in self-defence,
that I might know what he was talking of.'

'I believe he expects you to be even with Sydney Calcott after all. It is really very clever.
Where did you get all those funny stories?'

'What! you have gone and read it!'

'Ah, ha!  Mrs. Ponsonby gave us a pretty little literary soiree. Don't be too proud, it was
only ourselves, except that Mary brought in Miss Conway.  Jem tried to read it, but after he
had made that Spanish Society into 'Hammer men dead,' Mary got it away from him, and read through
as if it had been in print.'

'What an infliction!'

'It is very disrespectful to think us so frivolous.  We only wished all reviews were as entertaining.'

'It is too bad, when I only wanted to mystify my father.'

'It serves you right for playing tricks.  What have you been doing to him, Louis?  You will
turn him into a doting father before long.'

'What have you done with Clara?'

'She goes every day to read Italian with Miss Conway, and the governess is so kind as to give
her drawing lessons.  She is learning far more than at school, and they are so kind!  I should
hardly know how to accept it, but Jem does not object, and he is really very useful there,
spends a great deal of time on the boy, and is teaching the young ladies Latin.'

'They are leaving you lonely in the holidays!  You ought to come to Ormersfield, your nephews
would take better care of you.'

'Ah! I have my Marys.  If I were only better satisfied about the dear old one.  She is far
less well than when she came.'

'Indeed!  Is Mary uneasy?'

'She says nothing, but you know how her eye is always on her, and she never seems to have her
out of her thoughts.  I am afraid they are worried about Lima.  From what Oliver says, I fear
Mr. Ponsonby goes on worse than ever without either his family or his appointment to be a restraint.'

'I hope they do not know all!  Mary would not believe it, that is one comfort!'

'Ah, Louis! there are things that the heart will not believe, but which cut it deeply!  However,
if that could be any comfort to them, he wishes them to spare nothing here.  He tells them
they may live at the rate of five thousand pounds a-year, poor dears.  Indeed, he and Oliver
are in such glory over their Equatorial steam navigation, that I expect next to hear of a crash.'

'You don't look as if it would be a very dreadful sound.'

'If it would only bring my poor Oliver back to me!'

'Yes--nothing would make Jem so civil to him as his coming floated in on a plank, wet through,
with a little bundle in one hand and a parrot in the other.'

Mrs. Frost gave one of her tender laughs, and filled up the picture. 'Jane would open the door,
Jane would know Master Oliver's black eyes in a moment--'No, no.  I must see him first!  If
he once looked up I could not miss him, whatever colour he may have turned.  I wonder whether
he would know me!'

'Don't you know that you grow handsomer every year, Aunt Kitty?'

'Don't flatter, sir.'

'Well, I most go to my aunt.'

He tarried to hear the welcome recital of all the kind deeds of the house of Conway.  He presently
found Lady Conway awaiting him in the drawing-room, and was greeted with great joy.  'That
is well!  I hoped to work on your father by telling him I did not approve of young men carrying
industry too far--'

'That is not my habit.'

'Then it is your excuse for avoiding troublesome relations!  No, not a word!  I know nothing
about the secret that occupied Isabel at Mrs. Ponsonby's select party.  But I really wanted
you.  You are more au fait as to the society here than the Ponsonbys and Dynevors.  Ah! when
does that come off?'

'What is to come off?'

'Miss Ponsonby and Mr. Dynevor.  What a good creature he is!'

'I cannot see much likelihood of it, but you are more on the scene of action.'

'She could do much better, with such expectations, but on his account I could not be sorry.
It is shocking to think of that nice young sister being a governess.  I think it a duty to
give her every advantage that may tend to form her.  With her connexions and education, I can
have no objection to her as a companion to your cousins, and with a few advantages, though
she will never be handsome, she might marry well. They are a most interesting family. Isabel
and I are most anxious to do all in our power for them.'

'Clara is obliged,' said Louis, with undetected irony, but secret wonder at the dexterity with
which the patronage must have been administered so as not to have made the interesting family
fly off at a tangent.

Isabel made her appearance in her almost constant morning dress of soft dove-coloured merino
entirely unadorned, and looking more like a maiden in a romance than ever.  She had just left
Adeline standing on the steps of a stone cross, exhorting the Provencals to arm against a descent
of Moorish corsairs, and she held out her hand to Fitzjocelyn much as Adeline did, when the
fantastic Viscount professed his intention of flying instead of fighting, and wanted her to
sit behind him on his courser.

Lady Conway pronounced her council complete, and propounded the fete which she wished to give
on the 12th of January in honour of Louisa's birthday.  Isabel took up a pencil, and was lost
in sketching wayside crosses, and vessels with lateen sails, only throwing in a word or two
here and there when necessary.  Dancing was still, Lady Conway feared, out of the question
with Fitzjocelyn.

'And always will be, I suspect.  So much for my bargain with Clara to dance with her at her
first ball!'

'You like dancing?' exclaimed Isabel, rejoiced to find another resemblance to the fantastic
Viscount.

'Last year's Yeomanry ball was the best fun in the world!'

'There, Isabel,' said Lady Conway, 'you ought to be gratified to find a young man candid enough
to allow that he likes it!  But since that cannot be, I must find some other plan--'

'What cannot be?' exclaimed Louis.  'You don't mean to omit the dancing--'

'It could not be enjoyed without you.  Your cousins and friends could not bear to see you sitting
down--'

Isabel's lips were compressed, and the foam of her waves laughed scornfully under her pencil.

'They must get accustomed to the melancholy spectacle,' said Louis. 'I do not mean to intermit
the Yeomanry ball, if it take place while I am at home.  The chaperons are the best company,
after all. Reconsider it, my dear aunt, or you will keep me from coming at all.'

Lady Conway was only considering of tableaux, and Louis took fire at the notion: he already
beheld Waverley in his beloved Yeomanry suit, Isabel as Flora, Clara as Davie Gellatley--the
character she would most appreciate.  Isabel roused herself to say that tableaux were very
dull work to all save the actors, and soon were mere weariness to them.  Her stepmother told
her she had once been of a different mind, when she had been Isabel Bruce, kneeling in her
cell, the ring before her.  'I was young enough then to think myself Isabel,' was her answer,
and she drew the more diligently because Fitzjocelyn could not restrain an interjection, and
a look which meant, 'What an Isabel she must have been!'

She sat passive while Lady Conway and Louis decked up a scene for Flora MacIvor; but presently
it appeared that the Waverley of the piece was to be, according to Louis, not the proper owner
of the Yeomanry uniform, but James Frost.  His aunt exclaimed, and the rehearsals were strong
temptation; but he made answer, 'No--you must not reckon on me: my father would not like it.'

The manful childishness, the childish manfulness of such a reply, were impenetrable.  If his
two-and-twenty years did not make him ashamed of saying so, nothing else could, and it covered
a good deal. He knew that his father's fastidious pride would dislike his making a spectacle
of himself, and thought that it would be presuming unkindly on to-day's liberty to involve
himself in what would necessitate terms more intimate than were desired.

The luncheon silenced the consultation, which was to be a great secret from the children; but
afterwards, when it was resumed, with the addition of James Frost, Fitzjocelyn was vexed to
find the tableaux discarded; not avowedly because he excluded himself from a share, but because
the style of people might not understand them. The entertainment was to be a Christmas-tree--not
so hackneyed a spectacle in the year 1848 as in 1857--and Louis launched into a world of couplets
for mottoes.  Next came the question of guests, when Lady Conway read out names from the card-basket,
and Fitzjocelyn was in favour of everybody, till Jem, after many counter-statements, assured
Lady Conway that he was trying to fill her rooms with the most intolerable people in the world.

'My aunt said she wanted to give pleasure.'

'Ah! there's nothing so inconvenient to one's friends as good nature. Who cares for what is
shared indiscriminately?'

'I don't think I can trust Fitzjocelyn with my visiting-list just yet,' said Lady Conway. 
'You are too far above to be sensible of the grades beneath, with your place made for you.'

'Not at all,' said Louis.  'Northwold tea-parties were my earliest, most natural dissipation;
and I spoke for these good people for my own personal gratification.'

'Nay, I can't consent to your deluding Lady Conway into Mrs. Walby.'

'If there be any one you wish me to ask, my dear Fitzjocelyn--' began Lady Conway.

'Oh no, thank you; Jem is quite right.  I might have been playing on your unguarded innocence;
but I am the worst person in the world to consult; for all the county and all the town are
so kind to me, that I don't know whom I could leave out.  Now, the Pendragon there will help
you to the degree of gentility that may safely be set to consort together.'

'What an unkind fling!' thought Isabel.

Louis took leave, exclaiming to himself on the stairs, 'There! if comporting oneself like a
donkey before the object be a token, I've done it effectually.  Didn't I know the exclusiveness
of the woman? Yet, how could I help saying a word for the poor little Walbys? and, after all,
if they were there, no one would speak to them but Aunt Kitty and I.  And Isabel, I am sure
she scorned the fastidious nonsense; I saw it in her eye and lip.'

After a quarter of an hour spent in hearing her praises from Miss Faithfull, he betook himself
to Mrs. Ponsonby's, not quite without embarrassment, for he had not been alone with the mother
and daughter since August.

'I am glad you did not come before,' said Mary, heartily; 'I have just done:' and she returned
to her writing-table, while her mother was saying,

'We like it very much.'

'You have not been copying that wretched concern!' exclaimed Louis. 'Why, Mary, you must have
been at it all night.  It is a week's work.'

'Copying is not composing,' said Mary.

'But you have mended it, made it consecutive!  If I had guessed that my father meant to trouble
any one with it!'

'If you take pains with it, it may be very valuable,' said Mrs. Ponsonby.  'We have marked
a few things that you had better revise before it goes to Oakstead.'

'Goes to Oakstead!' said Louis, faintly.

'Your father talks of sending it, to see if Sir Miles does not think it might tell well in
one of the Reviews.'

'I hope not.  I should lose all my faith in anonymous criticism, if they admitted such a crude
undergraduate's omnium gatherum!  Besides, what an immense task to make it presentable!'

'Is that the root of your humility?'

'Possibly.  But for very shame I must doctor it, if Mary has wasted so much time over it. 
It does not look so bad in your hand!'

'It struck me whether you had rendered this Spanish story right.'

'Of course not.  I never stuck to my dictionary.'

A sound dose of criticism ensued, tempered by repetitions of his father's pleasure, and next
came some sympathy and discussion about the farm and Marksedge, in which the ladies took their
usual earnest part, and Mary was as happy as ever in hearing of his progress.  He said no word
of their neighbours; but he could not help colouring when Mary said, as he wished her good-bye,
'We like the party in the House Beautiful so much!  Miss Conway is such an acquisition to me!
and they are doing all you could ever have wished for Clara.'

Mary was glad that she had said it.  Louis was not so glad.  He thought it must have been an
effort, then derided his vanity for the supposition.

CHAPTER XVI.
                             WORDSWORTH

The 12th of January was the last day before James and Louis meant to return to Oxford, Jem
taking Clara on from thence to school.  It was to be the farewell to Christmas--one much enjoyed
in Dynevor Terrace. Fitzjocelyn's absence was almost a relief to Clara; she could not make
up her mind to see him till she could hope their last encounter had been forgotten; and in
the mean time, her anticipations were fixed on the great 12th.  She was aware of what the entertainment
would consist, but was in honour bound to conceal her knowledge from Virginia and Louisa, who
on their side affected great excitement and curiosity, and made every ostentation of guessing
and peeping.  Gifts were smuggled into the house from every quarter--some to take their chance,
some directed with mottoes droll or affectionate.  Clara prepared a few trifles, in which she
showed that school had done something for her fingers, and committed her little parcels to
her brother's care; and Miss Mercy was the happiest of all, continually knocking at the locked
door of the back drawing-room with gilded fir cones, painted banners, or moss birds'-nests,
from Miss Salome.

Miss King and Isabel had undertaken the main business.  When roused from her pensive stillness,
Isabel could be very eager, active, and animated; and she worked with the exhilaration that
she could freely enjoy when unrestrained by perceiving that she was wanted to produce an effect.
What woman's height and hand could not perform fell to the share of James, who, with his step-ladder
and dexterous hands, was invaluable.  Merrily, merrily did the three work, laughing over their
suspended bonbons, their droll contrivances, or predicting the adaptations of their gifts;
and more and more gay was the laugh, the tutor more piquant, the governess more keen and clever,
the young lady more vivacious, as the twilight darkened, and the tree became more laden, and
the streamers and glass balls produced a more brilliant effect.

Proudly, when the task was accomplished, did they contemplate their work, and predict the aspect
of their tinsel and frippery when duly lighted up.  Then, as they dispersed to dress, James
ran home, and hastily tapped at his sister's door.

'What is the matter?' she cried.  'Have the tassels come off my purse?'

'Nothing of the kind, but--' he came quite in, and looked round restlessly, then hastily said,
'You gave me nothing for Miss Conway.'

'I wished it very much,' said Clara, 'but I could not bear to do anything trumpery for her.
Oh, if one could give her anything worth having!'

'Clara, I had thought--but I did not know if you would like to part with it--'

'I had thought of it too,' said Clara; 'but I thought you would not like it to be given away.'

Pulling out a drawer, she opened an odd little box of queer curiosities, whence she took a
case containing an exquisite ivory carving, a copy of the 'Madonna della Sedia,' so fine that
a magnifier alone could fully reveal the delicacy and accuracy of the features and expression.
It was mounted as a bracelet clasp, and was a remnant of poor Mr. Dynevor's treasures.  It
had been given to Mrs. Henry Frost, and had descended to her daughter.

'Should you be willing?' wistfully asked James.

'That I should!  I have longed to give her what she would really care for.  She has been so
very kind--and her kindness is so very sweet in its graciousness!  I shall always be the happier
for the very thinking of it.'

'I am glad--' began Jem, warmly; but, breaking off, he added--'This would make us all more
comfortable.  It would lessen the weight of obligation, and that would be satisfactory to you.'

'I don't know.  I like people to be so kind, that I can't feel as if I would pay them off,
but as if I could do nothing but love them.'

'You did not imagine that I rate this as repayment!'

'Oh! no, no!'

'No! it is rather that nothing can be too precious--' then pausing--'You are sure you are willing,
Clary?'

'Only too glad.  I like it to be something valuable to us as well as in itself.  If I only
had a bit of black velvet, I could set it up.'

In ten minutes, Jem had speeded to a shop and back again, and stood by as Clara stitched the
clasp to the ribbon velvet; while there was an amicable dispute, he insisting that the envelope
should bear only the initials of the true donor, and she maintaining that 'he gave the black
velvet.'  She had her way, and wrote, 'From her grateful C. F. D. and J. R. F. D.;' and as
James took the little packet, he thanked her with an affectionate kiss--a thing so unprecedented
at an irregular hour, that Clara's heart leapt up, and she felt rewarded for any semblance
of sacrifice.

He told his grandmother that he had agreed with his sister that they could do no otherwise
than present the ivory clasp; and Mrs. Frost, who had no specially tender associations with
it, was satisfied to find that they had anything worth offering on equal terms.

She was to be of the party, and setting forth, they, found the House Beautiful upside down--even
the Faithfull parlour devoted to shawls and bonnets, and the two good old sisters in the drawing-room;
Miss Salome, under the protection of little Louisa, in an easy chair, opposite the folding
doors.  Small children were clustered in shy groups round their respective keepers.  Lady Conway
was receiving her guests with the smile so engaging at first sight, Isabel moving from one
to the other with stately grace and courtesy, Virginia watching for Clara, and both becoming
merged in a mass of white skirts and glossy heads, occupying a wide area.  Mrs. Frost was rapturously
surrounded by half-a-dozen young men, Sydney Calcott foremost, former pupils enchanted to see
her, and keeping possession of her all the rest of the evening.  She was a dangerous person
to invite, for the Northwold youth had no eyes but for her.

The children were presently taken down to tea in the dining-room by Miss King and Miss Mercy;
and presently a chorus of little voices and peals of laughter broke out, confirming the fact,
whispered by Delaford to his lady, that Lord Fitzjocelyn had arrived, and had joined the downstairs
party.

While coffee went round in the drawing-room, Isabel glided out to perform the lighting process.

'Oh, Mr. Dynevor!' she exclaimed, finding him at her side, 'I did not mean to call you away.'

'Mere unreason to think of the performance alone,' said James, setting up his trusty ladder.
'What would become of that black lace?'

'Thank you, it may be safer and quicker.'

'So far the evening is most successful,' said Jem, lighting above as she lighted below.

'That it is!  I like Northwold better than any place I have been in since I left Thornton Conway.
There is so much more heartiness and friendliness here than in ordinary society.

'I think Fitzjocelyn's open sympathies have conduced--'

Isabel laughed, and he checked himself, disconcerted.

'I beg your pardon,' she said; 'I was amused at the force of habit. If I were to say the Terrace
chimneys did not smoke, you would say it was Lord Fitzjocelyn's doing.'

'Do not bid me do otherwise than keep him in mind.'

Down fell the highest candle: the hot wax dropping on Isabel's arm caused her to exclaim, bringing
Jem down in horror, crying, 'I have hurt you! you are burnt!'

'Oh no, only startled.  There is no harm done, you see,' as she cracked away the cooled wax--'not
even a mark to remind me of this happy Christmas.'

'And it has been a happy Christmas to you,' he said, remounting.

'Most happy.  Nothing has been so peaceful or satisfactory in my wandering life.'

'Shall I find you here at Easter?'

'I fear not.  Mamma likes to be in London early; but perhaps she may leave the school-room
party here, as Louisa is gaining so much ground, and that would be a pledge of our return.'

'Too much joy,' said James, almost inaudibly.

'I hope Walter may spend his holidays here,' she pursued.  'It is a great thing for him to
be with any one who can put a few right notions into his head.'

Jem abstained from, as usual, proposing Fitzjocelyn for his example, but only said that Walter
was very susceptible of good impressions.

'And most heartily we thank you for all you have done for him,' said Isabel, doubting whether
Walter's mother appreciated the full extent of it; 'indeed, we have all a great deal to thank
you for.  I hope my sisters and I may be the better all our lives for the helps and explanations
you have given to us.  Is that the last candle?  How beautiful!  We must open.'

'Miss Conway--'

'Yes'--she paused with her hand on the key.

'No, no--do not wait,' taking the key himself.  'Yet--yes, I must--I must thank you for such
words--'

'My words?' said Isabel, smiling.  'For thanking you, or being happy here?'

'Both! both!  Those words will be my never-failing charm.  You little guess how I shall live
on the remembrance.  Oh, if I could only convey to you what feelings you have excited--'

The words broke from him as if beyond his control, and under the pressing need of not wasting
the tapers, he instinctively unlocked the door as he spoke, and cut himself short by turning
the handle, perhaps without knowing what he was about.

Instantly Lady Conway and Miss King each pushed a folding leaf, Isabel and James drew back
on either side, and the spectators beheld the tall glistening evergreen, illuminated with countless
little spires of light, glancing out among the dark leaves, and reflected from the gilt fir-cones,
glass balls, and brilliant toys.

'Sister! sister!' cried Miss Mercy, standing by Miss Faithfull's chair, in the rear of the
throng, and seizing her hand in ecstasy; 'it is like a dream! like what we have read of!  Oh,
the dear little children!  So very kind of Lady Conway!  Could you have imagined--?' She quite
gasped.

'It is very pretty, but it was a nicer Christmas-tree last year at Lady Runnymede's,' said
Louisa, with the air of a critic.  'There we had coloured lamps.'

'Little fastidious puss!' said Louis, 'I thought you keeping in the background out of politeness;
but I see you are only blasee with Christmas-trees.  I pity you!  I could no more be critical
at such a moment than I could analyse the jewels in Aladdin's cave.'

'Oh, if you and Miss Faithfull talk, Cousin Fitzjocelyn, you will make it seem quite new.'

'You will deride the freshness of our simplicity,' said Louis, but presently added, 'Miss Salome,
have we not awakened to the enchanted land?  Did ever mortal tree bear stars of living flame?
Here are realized the fabled apples of gold--nay, the fir-cones of Nineveh, the jewel-fruits
of Eastern story, depend from the same bough. Yonder lamps shine by fairy spell.'

'Now, Cousin Fitzjocelyn, do you think I suppose you so silly--'

'Soft!  The Dryad of the Enchanted Bower advances.  Her floating robes, her holly crown, beseem
her queenly charms.'

'As if you did not know that it is only Isabel!'

'Only!  May the word be forgiven to a sister!  Isabel!  The name is all-expressive.'

'She is looking even more lovely than usual,' said Miss Faithfull. 'I never saw such a countenance.'

'She has a colour to-night,' added Miss Mercy, 'which does, as you say, make her handsomer
than ever.  Dear! dear!  I hope she is not tired.  I am so sorry I did not help her to light
the tree!'

'I do not think it is fatigue,' said her sister.  'I hope it is animation and enjoyment--all
I have ever thought wanting to that sweet face.'

'You are as bad as my prosaic cousin,' said Louis, 'disenchanting the magic bower and the wood-nymph
into fir, wax, and modern young ladyhood.'

'There, cousin, it is you who have called her a modern young lady.'

Before Louisa had expressed her indignation, there was a call for her.

'The Sovereign of the Bower beckons,' said Louis.  'Favoured damsel, know how to deserve her
smiles.  Fairy gifts remain not with the unworthy.'

As he put her forward, some one made way for her.  It was Mary, and he blushed at perceiving
that she must have heard all his rhodomontade. As if to make amends, he paused, and asked for
Mrs. Ponsonby.

'Much more comfortable to-night, thank you;' and the pleasant, honest look of her friendly
eyes relieved him by not reproaching him.

'I wish she were here.  It is a prettier, more visionary sight than I could have conceived.'

'I wish she could see it; but she feared the crowd.  Many people in a room seem to stifle her.
Is Lord Ormersfield here?'

'No, it would not be his element.  But imagine his having taken to walking with me!  I really
think he will miss me.'

'Really?' said Mary, amused.

'It is presumptuous; but he does not see well at night, and is not quite broken in to his spectacles.
Mary, I hope you will walk over to see after him.  Nothing would be so good for him as walking
you back, and staying to dinner with you.  Go right into the library; he would be greatly pleased.
Can't you make some book excuse?  And you have the cottages to see.  The people inaugurated
the boilers with Christmas puddings.'

'Mr. Holdsworth told us how pleased they were.  And the Norrises?'

'Mrs. Norris is delighted; she has found a woman to wash, and says it will save her a maid.
The people can get milk now: I assure you they look more wholesome already!  And Beecher has
actually asked for two more houses in emulation.  And Richardson found himself turned over to me!'

'Oh, that's right.'

'I've been at the plans all the afternoon.  I see how to contrive the fireplace in the back
room, that we could not have in the first set, and make them cheaper, too.  My father has really
made a point of that old decrepit Hailes being moved from Marksedge; and Mary, he, and Richardson
mean Inglewood to be made over to me for good.  I am to put in a bailiff, and do as I can with
it--have the profits or bear the losses.  I think I have an idea--'

In spite of her willingness to hear the idea, Mary could not help asking, 'Have you sent off
the Police article?'

'Hush, Mary; it is my prime object to have it well forgotten.'

'Oh! did not Sir Miles like it?'

'He said it wanted liveliness and anecdote.  So the Santissima Hermandad, and all the extraneous
history, were sent to him; and then he was well content, and only wanted me to leave out all
the Christian chivalry--all I cared to say--'

'You don't mean not to finish?  Your father was so pleased, Isabel so much struck!  It is a pity--'

'No, no; you may forgive me, Mary--it is not pure laziness.  It was mere rubbish, without the
point, which was too strong for the two politicians; rubbish, any way.  Don't tell me to go
on with it; it was a mere trial, much better let it die away.  I really have no time; if I
don't mind my own business, I shall be a plucked gosling; and that would go to his, lordship's
heart.  Besides, I must get these plans done.  Do you remember where we got the fire-bricks
for the ovens?'

Mary was answering, when Walter came bursting through the crowd. 'Where is he?  Fitzjocelyn,
it is your turn.'

'Here is a curious specimen for our great naturalist,' said Mrs. Frost, a glow in her cheeks,
and her voice all stifled mirth and mischief.

It was a large nest of moss and horsehair, partly concealed under the lower branches, and containing
two huge eggs streaked and spotted with azure and vermilion, and a purple and yellow feather,
labelled, 'Dropped by the parent animal in her flight, on the discovery of the nest by the
crew of H.M.S. Flying Dutchman.  North Greenland, April 1st, 1847.  Qu.?  Female of Equus Pegasus.
Respectfully dedicated to the Right Honourable Viscount Fitzjocelyn.'

'A fine specimen,' said the Viscount at once, with the air of a connoisseur, by no means taken
by surprise.  'They are not very uncommon; I found one myself about the same date in the justice-room.
I dare say Mr. Calcott recollects the circumstance.'

'Oh, my dear fellow,' exclaimed Sydney, instead of his father; 'you need not particularize.
You always were a discoverer in that line.'

'True,' said Louis, 'but this is unique.  North Greenland--ah! I thought it was from a Frosty
country.  Ha, Clara?'

'Not I; I know nothing of it,' cried Clara, in hurry and confusion, not yet able to be suspected
of taking liberties with him.

'No?' said Louis, turning about his acquisition; 'I thought I knew the female that laid these
eggs.  The proper name is, I fancy, Glacies Dynevorensis--var. Catharina--perhaps--'

Walter and Louisa had brought their mother to see the nest, the point of which she comprehended
as little as they; and not understanding how much amusement was betokened by her nephew's gravity,
she protested that none of her party had devised it, nor even been privy to it, and that Mr.
Dynevor must bear the blame, but he was very busy detaching the prizes from the tree, and hastily
denied any concern with it.  Aunt Catharine was obliged to console Lady Conway, and enchant
Louis by owning herself the sole culprit, with no aid but Miss Mercy's. Together they had disposed
the nest in its right locality, as soon as the Earl's absence was secure.

'I had not courage for it before him,' she laughed.  'As for this fellow, I knew he would esteem
it a compliment.'

'As a tribute to his imagination?' said Isabel, who, in her mood of benevolence, could be struck
with the happy understanding between aunt and nephew revealed by such a joke, so received.

'It would be a curious research,' said Louis, 'whether more of these nidifications result from
over-imagination or the want of it.'

'Often from want of imagination, and no want of cowardice,' said Isabel.

'That sort of nest has not illuminated eggs like these,' said Louis. 'They are generally extremely
full of gunpowder, and might be painted with a skull and crossbones.  I say, Clara, has Aunt
Kitty considered the consequences?  She has sacrificed her ostrich eggs!  I can never part
with these original productions of her genius.'

He exhibited his mare's nest with his own gay bonhommie to all who were curious, and presently,
when every one's attention had been again recalled to the wonders which Isabel was distributing,
and he had turned aside to dispose of his treasure, he heard a sound of soliloquy half aloud,
'I wonder whether she has it!' from Clara, who stood a little apart.

'What?' asked Louia.

'My ivory clasp with the Madonna,' said Clara.  'Jem and I thought it the only thing worthy
of Miss Conway.'

'Hem!' said Louis; 'it is not your fault, Clara; but it would be graceful to learn to receive
a favour.'

'A favour, but not a grand thing like this,' said Clara, showing a beautiful little case of
working implements.

'Hardly worth, even intrinsically, your mother's bracelet,' said Louis. 'But I am not going
to talk treason to the family doctrine, though it is very inconvenient to your friends.'

'Then you think we ought not to have done it?'

'That depends on what I can't decide.'

'What's that?'

'Whether you give it out of love or out of pride.'

'I think we gave it out of one, and excused it by the other.'

'Very satisfactory.  To reward you, here is something for you to do. I shall never get at Aunt
Kitty to-night.  I see the midshipman, young Brewster, will not relinquish her; so will you
or will she administer this letter to the Lady of Eachalott?'

'You don't mean that is Tom Madison!' exclaimed Clara.  'Why, it is like copper-plate.  No
more Fitsgoslings!'

'No, indeed!  Is he not a clever fellow?  He has just reached the stage of civilization that
breaks out in dictionary words.  I have been, in return, telling him the story of the Irish
schoolmaster who puzzled the magistrate's bench by a petition about a small cornuted animal,
meaning a kid.  But I should think it would be very edifying to Charlotte to see herself commemorated
as the individual at the Terrace, and his grandfather as his aged relative.  He sends the old
man ten shillings this time, for he is promoted.  Don't you think I may be proud of him? Is
Mary gone home?  She must hear about him.'

As he turned away in search of Mary, Clara felt a soft hand on her shoulder, and Isabel beckoned
her to follow into the back drawing-room, where the tree was burnt out and deserted.

'I may thank you,' said Isabel, in a low, sweet voice, pressing her hand.

'And Jem,' said Clara; 'he thought of it first.'

'It is the most beautiful Christmas gift; but I do not like for you to part with it, my dear.'

'We both wished it, and grandmamma gave leave.  We longed for you to have something we prized
like this, for it belonged to my mamma.  It is Jem's present too, for he went out and bought
the black velvet.'

'Clasp it on for me, dear Clara.  There!' and Isabel kissed the fingers which obeyed.  'It
shall never leave my arm.'

Clara's face burnt with surprise and pleasure amounting to embarrassment, as Isabel expressed
hopes of meeting again, and engaged her to write from school.  She looked for her brother to
take his share of thanks; but he was determinately doing his duty in cutting chicken and cake
for those who desired supper, and he did not come in their way again till all the guests were
gone, and good-night and good-bye were to be said at once.

Lady Conway was warm in expressing her hopes that Walter would enjoy the same advantages another
holidays, and told Mr. Dynevor she should write to him.  But Jem made little answer, nothing
like a promise. Clara thought he had become stiff from some unknown affront, perhaps some oppressive
present, for he seemed to intend to include all the young ladies in one farewell bow.  But
Isabel advanced with outstretched hand and flushing cheek, and her murmured 'Thank you' and
confiding pressure drew from him such a grasp as could not easily be forgotten.

Clara's heart was all the lighter because she was sure that Fitzjocelyn had forgiven, and,
what was more, forgotten.  She had spoken naturally to him once more, and was ready for anything
now--even though they had missed all confidential discussions upon school.

She gave Charlotte Tom Madison's letter.  The little maiden took it, and twirled it about rather
superciliously.  'What business had my young Lord,' she thought, 'to fancy she cared for that
poor fellow? Very likely he was improved, and she was glad of it, but she knew what was genteel
now.  Yes, she would read it at once; there was no fear that it would make her soft and foolish--she
had got above that!'

CHAPTER XVII.

THE RIVALS.

  'Which king, Bezonian?'--Henry IV.

Sir Roland of Provence remained in suspense whether to be a novice or an irrevocably pledged
Hospitalier.  The latter was most probable; and when Adeline's feelings had been minutely analysed,
Miss Conway discovered that she had better not show her morning's work to her sisters.

Clara and Louis pronounced Jem to be as savage as a bear all through the journey.  Clara declared
it was revenge for having been civil and amiable all through the vacation; and Louis uttered
a theatrical aside, that even that could not have been maintained if he had not occasionally
come to Ormersfield to relieve himself a little upon their two lordships.

Laugh as he might, Fitzjocelyn was much concerned and perplexed by his cousin's ill-humour,
when it appeared more permanent than could be puffed off in a few ebullitions.  Attempts to
penetrate the gloom made it heavier, and Louis resolved to give it time to subside.  He waited
some days before going near James, and when he next walked to his college found him engaged
with pupils.  He was himself very busy, and had missed his cousin several times before he at
length found him alone.

'Why, Jem, old fellow, what are you about?  You've not been near my rooms this term.  Are you
renouncing me in anticipation of my plucking?'

'You won't be plucked unless you go out of your senses for the occasion.'

'No thanks to your advice and assistance if I am not.  But it would conduce to my equanimity,
Jem, to know whether we are quarrelling, as in that case I should know how to demean myself.'

'I've no quarrel with you.  You have far more reason--But,' added Jem, catching himself up,
'don't you know I have no leisure for trifling? The Ordination is the second week in March.'

'The Ordination!'

'Ay--you know it!  My fellowship depends on it.'

'I never liked to contemplate it.'  He sat down and mused, while James continued his occupation.
Presently he said, 'Look here.  Sir Miles Oakstead asked me if I had any clever Oxford friend
to recommend.  If he comes into office, he--'

'I'll be no great man's hanger-on.'

'This matter is not imminent.  You are barely four-and-twenty.  Wait a year or two; even a
few months would--'

'You have tried my forbearance often enough,' broke in James; 'my object is--as you very well
know--to maintain myself and mine without being liable to obnoxious patronage.  If you think
I should disgrace the office, speak out!'

Louis, without raising his eyes, only answered with a smile.

'Then, what do you mean?  As to your notions of a vocation, ninety-nine out of a hundred are
in my case.  I have been bred up to this--nothing else is open--I mean to do my duty; and surely
that is vocation--no one has a right to object--'

'No one; I beg your pardon,' meekly said Louis, taking up his stick to go; but both knew it
was only a feint, and James, whose vehemence was exhausting itself, resumed, in an injured
tone, 'What disturbs you? what is this scruple of yours!--you, who sometimes fancy you would
have been a curate yourself!'

'I have just inclination enough to be able to perceive that you have none.'

'And is every one to follow his bent?'

'This is not a step to be taken against the grain, even for the best earthly motives.  Jem!
I only beg you to ask advice.  For the very reason that you are irreproachable, you will never
have it offered.'

'The present time, for instance?' said James, laughing as best he might.

'That is nothing.  I have no faith in my own judgment, but, thinking as I do of the profession
and of you, I cannot help believing that my distaste for seeing you in it must be an instinct.'

'Give me your true opinion and its grounds candidly, knowing that I would not ask another man
living.'

'Nor me, if I did not thrust it on you.'

'Now for it!  Let us hear your objection.'

'Simply this.  I do not see that anything impels you to take Holy Orders immediately, except
your wish to be independent, and irrevocably fixed before your uncle can come home.  This seems
to me to have a savour of something inconsistent with what you profess.  It might be fine anywhere
else, but will it not bear being brought into the light of the sanctuary?  No, I cannot like
it.  I have no doubt many go up for ordination far less fit than you, but--Jem, I wish you
would not. If you would but wait a year!'

'No, Fitzjocelyn, my mind is made up.  I own that I might have preferred another course, and
Heaven knows it is not that I think myself worthy of this; but I have been brought up to this,
and I will not waver.  It is marked out for me as plainly as your earldom for you, and I will
do my duty in it as my appointed calling.  There lies my course of honest independence: you
call it pride--see what those are who are devoid of it: there lie my means of educating my
sister, providing for my grandmother.  I can see no scruple that should deter me.'

Fitzjocelyn having said his say, it was his turn and his nature to be talked down.

'In short,' concluded James, walking about the room, 'there is no alternative.  Waiting for
a College living is bad enough, but nothing else can make happiness even possible.'

'One would think you meant one sort of happiness,' said Louis, with a calm considering tone,
and look of inquiry which James could not brook.

'What else?' he cried.  'Fool and madman that I am to dwell on the hopeless--'

'Why should it be hopeless?--' began Louis.

'Hush! you are the last person with whom I could discuss this subject,' he said, trying to
be fierce, but with more sorrow than anger.  'I must bear my burthen alone.  Believe me, I
struggled hard. If you and I be destined to clash, one comfort is, that even I could never
quarrel with you.'

'I have not the remotest idea of your meaning.'

'So much the better.  No, so much the worse.  You are not capable of feeling what I do for
her, or you would have hated me long ago.  Do not stay here!  I do not know that I can quite
bear the sight of you--But don't let me lose you, Louis.'

James wrung the hand of his cousin; and no sooner was he alone, than he began to pace the room
distractedly.

'Poor Jem!' soliloquized Fitzjocelyn.  'At least, I am glad the trouble is love, not the Ordination.
But as to his meaning!  He gives me to understand that we are rivals--It is the most absurd
thing I ever knew--I declare I don't know whether he means Mary or Isabel.  I suppose he would
consider Mary's fortune a barrier--No, she is too serene for his storms--worthy, most worthy--but
she would hate to be worshipped in that wild way.  Besides, I am done for in that quarter.
No clashing there--! Nay, the other it can never be--after all his efforts to lash me up at
Christmas.  Yet, he was much with her, he made Clara sacrifice the clasp to her.  Hm!  She
is an embodied romance, deserving to be raved about; while for poor dear Mary, it would be
simply ridiculous.  I wish I could guess--it is too absurd to doubt, and worse to ask; and,
what's more, he would not stand it.  If I did but know!  I'm not so far gone yet, but that
I could leave the field to him, if that would do him any good.  Heigh ho! it would be en regle
to begin to hate him, and be as jealous as Bluebeard; but there!  I don't know which it is
to be about, and one can't be jealous for two ladies at once, luckily, for it would be immensely
troublesome, unless a good, hearty quarrel would be wholesome to revive his spirits.  It is
a bad time for it, though! Well, I hope he does not mean Mary--I could not bear for her to
be tormented by him.  That other creature might reign over him like the full moon dispersing
clouds.  Well! this is the queerest predicament I ever heard of!'  And on he wandered, almost
as much diverted by the humour of the doubt, as annoyed by the dilemma.

He had no opportunity for farther investigation: James removed himself so entirely from his
society, that he was obliged to conclude that the prevailing mood was that of not being quite
able to bear the sight of him.  His consolation was the hope of an opening for some generous
proceeding, though how this should be accomplished was not visible, since it was quite as hard
to be generous with other people's hearts as to confer a benefit on a Pendragon.  At any rate,
he was so confident of Jem's superiority, as to have no fear of carrying off the affection
of any one whom his cousin wished to win.

James was ordained, and shortly after went to some pupils for the Easter vacation, which was
spent by Louis at Christchurch, in studying hard.  The preparation for going up for his degree
ended by absorbing him entirely, as did every other pursuit to which he once fairly devoted
himself, and for the first time he gave his abilities full scope in the field that ought long
ago to have occupied them. When, finally, a third class was awarded to him, he was conscious
that it might have been a first, but for his past waste of time.

He was sorry to leave Oxford: he had been happy there in his own desultory fashion; and the
additional time that his illness had kept him an undergraduate, had been welcome as deferring
the dreaded moment of considering what was to come next.  He had reached man's estate almost
against his will.

He was to go to join his father in London; and he carried thither humiliation for having, by
his own fault, missed the honours that too late he had begun to value as a means of gratifying
his father.

The Earl, however, could hardly have taken anything amiss from Louis. After having for so many
years withheld all the lassez-aller of paternal affection, when the right chord had once been
touched, his fondness for his grown-up son had the fresh exulting pride, and almost blindness
that would ordinarily have been lavished on his infancy. Lord Ormersfield's sentiments were
few and slowly adopted, but they had all the permanence and force of his strong character,
and his affection for Fitzjocelyn partook both of parental glory in a promising only son, and
of that tenderness, at once protecting and dependent, that fathers feel for daughters.  This
was owing partly to Louis's gentle and assiduous attentions during the last vacation, and also
to his long illness, and remarkable resemblance to his mother, which rendered fondness of him
a sort of tribute to her, and restored to the Earl some of the transient happiness of his life.

It was a second youth of the affections, but it was purchased by a step towards age.  The anxiety,
fatigue, and various emotions of the past year had told on the Earl, and though still strong,
vigorous, and healthy, the first touch of autumn had fallen on him--he did not find his solitary
life so self-sufficing as formerly, and craved the home feeling of the past Christmas.  So
the welcome was twice as warm as Louis had expected; and as he saw the melancholy chased away,
the stern grey eyes lighted up, and the thin, compressed lips relaxed into a smile, he forgot
his aversion to the well-appointed rooms in Jermyn Street, and sincerely apologized that he
had not brought home more credit to satisfy his father.

'Oakstead was talking it over with me,' was the answer; 'and we reckoned up many more third-class
men than first who have distinguished themselves.'

'Many thanks to Sir Miles,' said Louis, laughing.  'My weak mind would never have devised such
consolation.'

'Perhaps the exclusive devotion to study which attains higher honours may not be the beat introduction
to practical life.'

'It is doing the immediate work with the whole might.'

'You do work with all your might.'

'Ay! but too many irons in the fire, and none of them red-hot through, have been my bane.'

'You do not set out in life without experience; I am glad your education is finished, Louis!'
said his father, turning to contemplate him, as if the sight filled up some void.

'Are you?' said Louis, wearily.  'I don't think I am.  It becomes my duty--or yours, which
is a relief--to find out the next stage.'

'Have you no wishes?'

'Not at the present speaking, thank you.  If I went out and talked to any one, I might have
too many.'

'No views for your future life?'

'Thus far: to do as little harm as may be--to be of some use at home--and to make turnips grow
in the upland at Inglewood, I have some vague fancy to see foreign parts, especially now they
are all in such a row--it would be such fun--but I suppose you would not trust me there now.
Here I am for you to do as you please with me--a gracious permission, considering that you
did not want it.  Only the first practical question is how to get this money from Jem to Clara.
I should like to call on her, but I suppose that would hardly be according to the proprieties.'

'I would walk to the school with you, if you wish to see her.  My aunt will be glad to hear
of her, if we go home to-morrow.'

'Are you thinking of going home?' exclaimed Louis, joyfully coming to life.

'Yes; but for a cause that will grieve you.  Mrs. Ponsonby is worse, and has written to ask
me to come down.'

'Materially worse?'

'I fear so.  I showed my aunt's letter to Hastings, who said it was the natural course of the
disease, but that he thought it would have been less speedy.  I fear it has been hastened by
reports from Peru. She had decided on going out again; but the agitation overthrew her, and
she has been sinking ever since,' said Lord Ormersfield, mournfully.

'Poor Mary!'

'For her sake I must be on the spot, if for no other cause.  If I had but a home to offer her!'

Louis gave a deep sigh, and presently asked for more details of Mrs. Ponsonby's state.

'I believe she is still able to sit up and employ herself at times, but she often suffers dreadfully.
They are both wonderfully cheerful.  She has little to regret.'

'What a loss she will be!  Oh, father! what will you do without her?'

'I am glad that you have known her.  She has been more than a sister to me.  Things might have
been very different, if that miserable marriage had not separated us for so many years.'

'How could it have happened?  How was it that she--so good and wise--did not see through the man?'

'She would, if she had been left to herself; but she was not.  My mother discovered, when too
late, that there had been foolish, impertinent jokes of that unfortunate trifler, poor Henry
Frost, that made her imagine herself suspected of designs on me.'

'Mary would never have attended to such folly!' cried Louis.

'Mary is older.  Besides, she loved the man, or thought she did. I believe she thinks herself
attached to him still.  But for Mary's birth, there would have been a separation long ago.
There ought to have been; but, after my father's death, there was no one to interfere! What
would I not have given to have been her brother! Well!  I never could see why one like her
was so visited--!' Then rousing himself, as though tender reminiscences were waste of time,
he added, 'There you see the cause of the caution I gave you with regard to Clara Dynevor.
It is not fair to expose a young woman to misconstructions and idle comments, which may goad
her to vindicate her dignity by acting in a manner fatal to her happiness.  Now,' he added,
having drawn his moral, 'if we are to call on Clara, this would be the fittest time.  I have
engaged for us both to dine at Lady Conway's this evening: I thought you would not object.'

'Thank you; but I am sure you cannot wish to go out after such news.'

'There is not sufficient excuse for refusing.  There is to be no party, and it would be a marked
thing to avoid it.'

Louis hazarded a suggestion that the meeting with Clara would be to little purpose if they
were all to sit in state in the drawing-room; and she was asked for on the plea of going to
see the new Houses of Parliament.  The Earl of Ormersfield's card and compliments went upstairs,
and Miss Frost Dynevor appeared, with a demure and astonished countenance, which changed instantly
to ecstasy when she saw that the Earl was not alone.  Not at all afraid of love, but only of
misconstructions, he goodnaturedly kept aloof, while Clara, clinging to Louis's arm, was guided
through the streets, and in and out among the blocks of carved stone on the banks of the Thames,
interspersing her notes of admiration and his notes on heraldry with more comfortable confidences
than had fallen to their lot through the holidays.

His first hope was that Clara might reveal some fact to throw light on the object of her brother's
affections, but her remarks only added to his perplexity.  Once, when they had been talking
of poor Mary, and lamenting her fate in having to return to her father, Louis hazarded the
conjecture that she might find an English home.

'There is her aunt in Bryanston Square,' said Clara.  'Or if she would only live with us! 
You see I am growing wise, as you call it: I like her now.'

'That may be fortunate,' said Louis.  'You know her destination according to Northwold gossip.'

'Nonsense!  Jem would scorn an heiress if she were ten times prettier. He will never have an
escutcheon of pretence like the one on the old soup tureen that the Lady of Eschalott broke,
and Jane was so sorry for because it was the last of the old Cheveleigh china.'

Louis made another experiment.  'Have you repented yet of giving away your clasp?'

'No, indeed!  Miss Conway always wears it.  She should be richly welcome to anything I have
in the world.'

'You and Jem saw much more of them than I did.'

'Whose fault was that?  Jem was always raving about your stupidity in staying at home.'

He began to question whether his interview with James had been a dream. As they were walking
back towards the school, Clara went on to tell him that Lady Conway had called and taken her
to a rehearsal of a concert of ancient music, and that Isabel had taken her for one or two
drives into the country.

'This must conduce to make school endurable,' said Louis.

'I think I hate it more because I hate it less.'

'Translate, if you please.'

'The first half-year, I scorned them all, and they scorned me; and that was comfortable--'

'And consistent.  Well?'

'The next, you had disturbed me; I could not go on being savage with the same satisfaction,
and their tuft-hunting temper began to discharge itself in such civility to me, that I could
not give myself airs with any peace.'

'Have you made no friends?'

One and a half.  The whole one is a good, rough, stupid girl, who comes to school because she
can't learn, and is worth all the rest put together.  The half is Caroline Salter, who is openly
and honestly purse-proud, has no toad-eating in her nature, and straight-forwardly contemns
high-blood and no money.  We fought ourselves into respect for one another; and now, I verily
believe, we are fighting ourselves into friendship.  She is the only one that is proud, not
vain; so we understand each other.  As to the rest, they adore Caroline Halter's enamelled
watch one day; and the next, I should be their 'dearest' if I would but tell them what we have
for dinner at Ormersfield, and what colour your eyes are!'

'The encounters have made you so epigrammatic and satirical, that there is no coming near you.'

'Oh, Louis! if you knew all, you would despise me as I do myself! I do sometimes get drawn
into talking grandly about Ormersfield; and though I always say what I am to be, I know that
I am as vain and proud as any of them: I am proud of being poor, and of the Pendragons, and
of not being silly!  I don't know which is self-respect, and which is pride!'

'I have always had my doubts about that quality of self-respect. I never could make out what
one was to respect.'

'Oh, dear! les voila!' cried Clara, as, entering Hanover Square, they beheld about twenty damsels
coming out of the garden in couples.  'I would not have had it happen for the whole world!'
she added, abruptly withdrawing the arm that had clung to him so trustfully across many a perilous
crossing.

She seemed to intend to slip into the ranks without any farewells, but the Earl, with politeness
that almost confounded the little elderly governess, returned thanks for having been permitted
the pleasure of her company, and Louis, between mischief and good-nature, would not submit
to anything but a hearty, cousinly squeeze of the hand, nor relinquish it till he had forced
her to utter articulately the message to grandmamma that she had been muttering with her head
averted.  At last it was spoken sharply, and her hand drawn petulantly away, and, without looking
back at him, her high, stiff head vanished into the house, towering above the bright rainbow
of ribbons, veils, and parasols.

The evening would have been very happy, had not Lord Ormersfield looked imperturbably grave
and inaccessible to his sister-in-law's blandishments.  She did not use the most likely means
of disarming him when she spoke of making a tour in the summer.  It had been a long promise
that Isabel and Virginia should go to see their old governess at Paris; but if France still
were in too disturbed a state, they might enjoy themselves in Belgium, and perhaps her dear
Fitzjocelyn would accompany them as their escort.

His eyes had glittered at the proposal before he recollected the sorrow that threatened his
father, and began to decline, protesting that he should be the worst escort in the world, since
he always attracted accidents and adventures.  But his aunt, discovering that he had never
been abroad, became doubly urgent, and even appealed to his father.

'As far as I am concerned, Fitzjocelyn may freely consult his own inclinations,' said the Earl,
so gravely, that Lady Conway could only turn aside the subject by a laugh, and assurance that
she did not mean to give him up.  She began to talk of James Frost, and her wishes to secure
him a second time as Walter's tutor in the holidays.

'You had better take him with you,' said Louis; 'he would really be of use to you, and how
he would enjoy the sight of foreign parts!'

Isabel raised her head with a look of approbation, such as encouraged him to come a little
nearer, and apeak of the pleasure that her kindness had given to Clara.

'There is a high spirit and originality about Clara, which make her a most amusing companion.'

Isabel replied, 'I am very glad of an hour with her, especially now that I am without my sisters.'

'She must be such a riddle to her respectable school-fellows, that intercourse beyond them
must be doubly valuable.'

'Poor child!  Is there no hope for her but going out as a governess?'

'Unluckily, we have no Church patronage for her brother; the only likely escape--unless, indeed,
the uncle in Peru, whom I begin to regard as rather mythical, should send an unavoidable shower
of gold on them.'

'I hope not,' said Isabel, 'I could almost call their noble poverty a sacred thing.  I never
saw anything so beautiful as the reverent affection shown to Mrs. Dynevor on Walter's birthday,
when she was the Queen of the Night, and looked it, and her old pupils vied with each other
in doing her honour.  I have remembered the scene so often in looking at our faded dowagers here.'

'I would defy Midas to make my Aunt Catharine a faded dowager,' said Louis.

'No; but he could have robbed their homage of half--nay, all its grace.'

They talked of Northwold, and Isabel mentioned various details of Mrs. Ponsonby, which she
had learnt from Miss King, and talked of Mary with great feeling and affection.  Never had
Louis had anything so like a conversation with Isabel, and he was more bewitched than ever
by the enthusiasm and depth of sensibilities which she no longer concealed by coldness and
reserve.  In fact, she had come to regard him as an accessory of Northwold, and was delighted
to enjoy some exchange of sympathy upon Terrace subjects--above all, when separated from the
school-room party.  Time had brought her to perceive that the fantastic Viscount did not always
wear motley, and it was almost as refreshing as meeting with Clara, to have some change from
the two worlds in which she lived.  In her imaginary world, Adeline had just been rescued from
the Corsairs by a knight hospitalier, with his vizor down, and was being conducted home by
him, with equal probabilities of his dying at her feet of a concealed mortal wound, or conducting
her to her convent gate, and going off to be killed by the Moors.  The world of gaiety was
more hollow and wearisome than ever; and the summons was as unwelcome to her as to Fitzjocelyn,
when Lord Ormersfield reminded him that the ladies were going to an evening party, and that
it was time to take leave.

'Come with us, Fitzjocelyn,' said his aunt.  'They would be charmed to have you;' and she mentioned
some lions, whose names made Louis look at his father.

'I will send the carriage for you,' said the Earl; but Louis had learnt to detect the tone
of melancholy reluctance in that apparently unalterable voice, and at once refused.  Perhaps
it was for that reason that Isabel let him put on her opera-cloak and hand her down stairs.
'I don't wonder at you,' she said; 'I wish I could do the same.'

'I wished it at first,' he answered; 'but I could not have gone without a heavy heart.'

'Are you young enough to expect to go to any gaieties without a heavy heart?'

'I am sorry for you,' said he, in his peculiar tone: 'I suppose I am your elder.'

'I am almost twenty-four,' she said, with emphasis.

'Indeed!  That must be the age for care, to judge by the change it has worked in Jem Frost.'

The words were prompted by a keen, sudden desire to mark their effect; but he failed to perceive
any, for they were in a dark part of the entry, and her face was turned away.

'Fitzjocelyn,' said the Earl, on the way home, 'do not think it necessary to look at me whenever
you receive an invitation.  It makes us both appear ridiculous, and you are in every respect
your own master.'

'I had rather not, thank you,' said Louis, in an almost provokingly indifferent tone.

'It is full time you should assume your own guidance.'

'How little he knows how little that would suit him!' thought Louis, sighing despondingly.
'Am I called on to sacrifice myself in everything, and never even satisfy him?'

CHAPTER XVIII.

REST FOR THE WEARY.

  Therefore, arm thee for the strife
  All throughout this mortal life,
  Soldier now and servant true,
  Earth behind, and heaven in view.
                       REV. I. WILLIAMS.

The first impression on arriving at Northwold was, that the danger had been magnified.  Mrs.
Frost's buoyant spirits had risen at the first respite; and though there was a weight on Mary's
brow, she spoke cheerfully, and as if able to attend to other interests, telling Louis of her
father's wish for some good workmen to superintend the mines, and asking him to consult his
friends at Illershall on the subject.

Lord Ormersfield came down encouraged by his visit to the invalid, whom he had found dressed
and able to converse nearly as usual.  She begged him to come to dinner the next day, and spend
the evening with her, promising with a smile that if he would bring Louis, their aunt should
chaperon Mary.

When the Earl went upstairs after dinner, the other three closed round the fire, and talked
in a tranquil, subdued strain, on various topics, sometimes grave, sometimes enlivened by the
playfulness inherent in two of the party.  Aunt Kitty spoke of her earlier days, and Louis
and Mary ventured questions that they would have ordinarily deemed intrusive. Yet it was less
the matter than the manner of their dialogue--the deep, unavowed fellow-feeling and mutual
reliance--which rendered it so refreshing and full of a kind of repose.  Louis felt it like
the strange bright stillness, when birds sing their clearest, fullest notes, and the horizon
reach of sky beams with the softest, brightest radiance, just ere it be closed out by the thunder-cloud,
whose first drops are pausing to descend; and to Mary it was peace--peace which she was willing
gratefully to taste to the utmost, from the instinctive perception that the call had come for
her to brace all her powers of self-control and fortitude; while to the dear old aunt, besides
her enjoyment of her darling's presence, each hour was a boon that she could believe the patient
or the daughter, relieved and happy.

Louis was admitted for a few minutes' visit to the sick-chamber, and went up believing that
he ought to be playful and cheerful; but he was nearly overcome by Mrs. Ponsonby's own brightness,
as she hoped that her daughter and aunt had made themselves agreeable.

'Thank you, I never was so comfortable, not even when my foot was bad.'

'I believe you consider that a great compliment.'

'Yes, I never was so much off my own mind, nor on other people's:' and the recollection of
all he owed to Mrs. Ponsonby's kindness rushing over him, he looked so much affected, that
Mary was afraid of his giving way, and spoke of other matters; her mother responded, and he
came away quite reassured, and believing Mrs. Frost's augury that at the next call, the invalid
would be in the drawing-room.

On the way home, however, his father overthrew such hopes, and made him aware of the true state
of the case,--namely, that this was but the lull before another attack, which, whether it came
within weeks or days, would probably be the last.

'Does Mary know?'

'She does.  She bears up nobly.'

'And what is to become of her?'

The Earl sighed deeply.  'Lima is her destiny.  Her mother is bent on it, and says that she
wishes it herself; but on one thing I am resolved: she shall not go alone!  I have told her
mother that I will go with her, and not leave her without seeing what kind of home that man
has for her.  Mary--the mother, I mean--persists in declaring that he has real affection for
his child, and that her presence will save him.'

'If anything could--' broke out Louis.

'It should! it ought; but I do not trust him.  I know Robert Ponsonby as his wife has never
chosen to know him.  This was not a time for disguise, and I told her plainly what I thought
of risking her daughter out there.  But she called it Mary's duty--said that he was fully to
be trusted where his child was concerned, and that Mary was no stranger at Lima, but could
take care of herself, and had many friends besides Oliver Dynevor there.  But I told her that
go with her I would!'

'You to take the voyage!  Was not she glad?'

'I think she was relieved; but she was over-grateful and distressed, and entreating me to be
patient with him.  She need not fear.  I never was a hasty man; and I shall only remember that
she bears his name, and that he is Mary's father--provided always that it is fit Mary should
remain with him.  Miserable!  I can understand that death may well come as a friend--But her
daughter!' he exclaimed, giving way more than he might have done anywhere but in the dark;
'how can she endure to leave her to such a father--to such prospects!'

'She knows it is not only to such a father that she leaves her,' murmured Louis.

'Her words--almost her words,' said the Earl, between earnestness and impatience; 'but when
these things come to pressing realities, it is past me how such sayings are a consolation.'

'Not if they were no more than sayings.'

There was silence.  Louis heard an occasional groaning sigh from his father, and sat still,
with feelings strongly moved, and impelled to one of his sudden and impetuous resolutions.

The next morning, he ordered his horse, saying he would bring the last report from the Terrace.

That afternoon, Mrs. Ponsonby observed a tremulousneas in Mary's hand, and a willingness to
keep her face turned away; and, on more minute glances, a swelling of the eyelids was detected.

'My dear,' said Mrs. Ponsonby, 'you should take a walk to-day.  Pray go out with the Conways.'

'Oh no, thank you, mamma.'

'If the cousins come in from Ormersfield, I shall tell Louis to take you to look at his farm.
It would be very good for you--My dear, what is it?' for Mary's ears and neck, all that she
could see, were crimson.

'Oh, mamma! he has been doing it again.  I did not mean to have told you--' said Mary, the
strong will to be calm forcing back the tears and even the flush.

'Nay, dear child, nothing can hurt me now.  You must let me share all with you to the last.
What did you say to him?'

'I told him that I could not think of such things now,' said Mary, almost indignantly.

'And he?'

'He begged my pardon, and said he only did it because he thought it might be a relief to you.'

'Only; did he say 'only?'

'I am not sure.  At least,' she added, with a deep sigh, 'I thought he meant only--'

'And you, my dearest, if you had not thought he meant only?'

'Don't ask me, mamma; I cannot think about it!'

'Mary, dearest, I do wish to understand you.'

'Is it of any use for me to ask myself?' said Mary.

'I think it is.  I do not say that there might not be insuperable obstacles; but I believe
we ought to know whether you are still indifferent to Louis.'

'Oh, that I never was!  Nobody could be!'

'You know what I mean,' said her mother, slightly smiling.

'Mamma, I don't know what to say,' replied Mary, after a pause.  'I had thought it wrong to
let my thoughts take that course; but when he spoke in his own soft, gentle voice, I felt,
and I can't help it, that--he--could--comfort--me--better--than--any one.'

Not hesitating, but slowly, almost inaudibly, she brought out the words; and, as the tears
gushed out irrepressibly with the last, she hastened from the room, and was seen no more till
she had recovered composure, and seemed to have dismissed the subject.

Louis kept this second attempt a secret; he was not quite sure how he felt, and did not wish
to discuss his rejection.  At breakfast, he received a note from Mrs. Ponsonby, begging him
to come to the Terrace at three o'clock; and the hope thus revived made him more conversational
than he had been all the former day.

He found that Mary was out walking, and he was at once conducted to Mrs. Ponsonby's room, where
he looked exceedingly rosy and confused, till she began by holding out her hand, and saying,
'I wish to thank you.'

'I am afraid I vexed Mary,' said Louis, with more than his usual simplicity; 'but do you think
there is no hope?  I knew it was a bad time, but I thought it might make you more at ease on
her account.'

'You meant all that was most kind.'

'I thought I might just try,' pursued he, disconsolately, 'whether she did think me any steadier.
I hope she did not think me very troublesome.  I tried not to harass her much.'

'My dear Louis, it is not a question of what you call steadiness.  It is the old story of last
summer, when you thought us old ones so much more romantic than yourself.'

'You are thinking of Miss Conway,' said Louis, blushing, but with curious naivete.  'Well,
I have been thinking of that, and I really do not believe there was anything in it.  I did
make myself rather a fool at Beauchastel, and Jem would have made me a greater one; but you
know my father put a stop to it.  Thinking her handsomer than other people can't be love, can it?'

'Not alone, certainly.'

'And actually,' he pursued, 'I don't believe I ever think of her when I am out of the way of
her!  No, indeed! if I had not believed that was all over, do you think I could have said what
I did yesterday?'

'Not unless you believed so.'

'Well, but really you don't consider how little I have seen of her. I was in awe of her at
first, and since, I have kept away on purpose. I never got on with her at all till the other
evening.  I don't believe I care for her one bit.  Then,' suddenly pausing, and changing his
tone, 'you don't trust me after all.'

'I do.  I trust your principle and kindness implicitly, but I think the very innocence of your
heart prevents you from knowing what you are about.'

'It is very hard,' said Louis; 'every one will have it that I must be in love, till I shall
have to believe so myself, and when I know it cannot come to good.'

'You are making yourself more simple than you really are,' said Mra. Ponsonby, half provoked.

Louis shut his eyes, and seemed to be rousing his faculties; then, taking a new turn, he earnestly
said, 'You know that the promises must settle the question, and keep my affections fast.'

'Ah, Louis! there is the point.  Others, true and sincere as yourself, have broken their own
hearts, and those of others, from having made vows in wilful ignorance of latent feelings.
It would be a sin in me to allow you to bind yourself to Mary, with so little comprehension
as you have of your own sentiments.'

'Then I have done wrong in proposing it.'

'What would have been wrong in some cases, was more of blindness--ay, and kindness--in you.
Louis, I cannot tell you my gratitude for your wish to take care of my dear girl,' she said,
with tears in her eyes. 'I hope you fully understand me.'

'I see I have made a fool of myself again, and that you have a right to be very angry with me.'

'Not quite,' said Mrs. Ponsonby, smiling, 'but I am going to give you some advice.  Settle
your mind as to Miss Conway.  Your father is beginning to perceive that his distrust was undeserved;
he has promised me not to object in case it should be for your true happiness; and I do believe,
for my own part, that, in some respects, she is better fitted for his daughter-in-law than
my poor Mary.'

'No one ever was half as good as Mary!' cried Louis.  'And this is what you tell me!'

'Mind, I don't tell you to propose to her, nor to commit yourself in any way: I only tell you
to put yourself in a position to form a reasonable judgment of your own feelings.  That is
due to her, to yourself, and to your wife, be she who she may.'

Louis sighed, and presently added, smiling, 'I am not going to rave about preferences for another;
but I do want to know whether anything can be done for poor Jem Frost.'

'Ha! has he anything of this kind on his mind?'

'He does it in grand style--disconsolate, frantic, and frosty; but he puzzles me completely
by disclosing nothing but that he has no hope, and thinks me his rival.  Can nothing be done?'

'No, Louis,' said Mrs. Ponsonby, decidedly; 'I have no idea that there is anything in that
quarter.  What may be on his mind, I cannot tell: I am sure that he is not on Mary's.'

Louis rose.  'I have tired you,' he said, 'and you are very patient with my fooleries.'

'You have been very patient with many a lecture of mine, Louis.'

'There are very few who would have thought me worth lecturing.'

'Ah, Louis! if I did not like you so well for what you are, I should still feel the right to
lecture you, when I remember the night I carried you to your father, and tried to make him
believe that you would be his comfort and blessing. I think you have taught him the lesson
at last!'

'You have done it all,' said Louis, with deep feeling.

'And now, may I say what more I want to see in you?  If you could acquire more resolution,
more manliness--will you pardon my saying so?'

'Ah!  I have always found myself the identical weak man that all books give up as a hopeless
case,' said Louis, accepting the imputation more easily than she could have supposed possible.

'No,' she said, vigorously, 'you have not come to your time of life without openings to evil
that you could not have resisted if you had been really weak.'

'Distaste--and rather a taste for being quizzed,' said Louis.

'Those are not weakness.  Your will is indolent, and you take refuge in fancying that you want
strength.  Rouse yourself, not to be drifted about--make a line for yourself.'

'My father will have me walk in no line but his own.'

'You have sense not to make duty to him an excuse for indolence and dislike of responsibility.
You have often disappointed yourself by acting precipitately; and now you are throwing yourself
prone upon him, in a way that is unwise for you both.'

'I don't know what to do!' said Louis.  'When I thought the aim of my life was to be to devote
myself to his wishes, you--ay, and he too--tell me to stand alone.'

'It will be a disappointment to him, if you do not act and decide for yourself--yes, and worse
than disappointment.  He knows what your devotional habits are; and if he sees you wanting
in firmness or energy, he will set down all the rest as belonging to the softer parts of your
nature.'

'On the contrary,' exclaimed Louia, indignantly, 'all the resolution I ever showed came from
nothing else!'

'I know it.  Let him see that these things make a man of you; and, Louis--you feel what a difference
it might make!'

Louis bowed his head thoughtfully.

'You, who are both son and daughter to him, may give up schemes and pleasures for his sake,
and may undertake work for which you have no natural turn; but, however you may cross your
inclinations, never be led contrary to your judgment.  Then, and with perseverance, I think
you will be safe.'

'Perseverance--your old lesson.'

'Yes; you must learn to work over the moment when novelty is gone and failure begins, even
though your father should treat the matter as a crotchet of your own.  If you know it is worth
doing, go on, and he will esteem you and it.'

'My poor private judgment! you work it hard! when it has generally only run me full-drive into
some egregious blunder!'

'Not your true deliberate judgment, exercised with a sense of responsibility.  Humility must
not cover your laziness.  You have such qualities and such talents as must be intended to do
good to others, not to be trifled away in fitful exertions.  Make it your great effort to see
clearly, and then to proceed steadfastly, without slackening either from weariness or the persuasions
of others.'

'And you won't let me have the one person who can see clearly, and keep me steady?'

'To be your husband, instead of your wife!  No, Louis; you must learn to take yourself on your
own hands, and lean neither on your father, nor on any one else on earth, before you can be
fit for Mary, or--'

'And if I did?' began Louis.

'You would make a man of yourself,' she said, interrupting him. 'That is the first thing--not
a reed shaken with the wind.  You can do it; there is nothing that Grace cannot do.'

'I know there is not,' said Louis, reverently.

'And, oh! the blessing that you would so bring on yourself and on your dear father!  You have
already learnt to make him happier than I ever looked to see him; and you must be energetic
and consistent, that so he may respect, not you, but the Power which can give you the strength.'

Louis's heart was too full to make any answer.  Mrs. Ponsonby lay back in her chair, as though
exhausted by the energy with which she had spoken the last words; and there was a long silence.
He thought he ought to go, and yet could not resolve to move.  At last she spoke--'Good-bye,
Louis.  Come what may, I know Mary will find in you the--all that I have found your father.'

'Thank you, at least, for saying that,' said Louis.  'If you would only hold out a hope--I
wish it more than ever now!  I do not believe that I should ever do as well with any one else!
Will you not give me any prospect?'

'Be certain of your own heart, Louis!  Nay,' as she saw his face brighten, 'do not take that
as a promise.  Let me give you a few parting words, as the motto I should like to leave with
you--'Quit yourselves like men; be strong.'  And so, Louis, whatever be your fixed and resolute
purpose, so it be accordant with the Will of Heaven, you would surely, I believe, attain it,
and well do you know how I should rejoice to see'--She broke off, and said, more feebly, 'I
must not go on any longer.  Let me wish you good-bye, Louis: I have loved you only less than
my own child!'

Louis knelt on one knee beside her, held her hand, and bowed down his face to hide the shower
of tears that fell, while a mother's kiss and a mother's blessing were on his brow.

He went down stairs, and out of the house, and took his horse from the inn stables, without
one word to any one.  The ostlers said to each other that the young Lord was in great trouble
about the lady at the Terrace.

Mary came home; and if she knew why that long walk had been urged on her, she gave no sign.
She saw her mother worn and tired, and she restrained all perception that she was conscious
that there had been agitation.  She spoke quietly of the spring flowers that she had seen,
and of the people whom she had met; she gave her mother her tea, and moved about with almost
an increase of the studied quietness of the sick-room.  Only, when Mrs. Frost came in for an
hour, Mary drew back into a corner with her knitting, and did not speak.

'Mary,' said her mother, when she came back from lighting her aunt down stairs, 'come to me,
my child.'

Mary came, and her mother took both her hands.  They were chilly; and there was a little pulse
on Mary's temple that visibly throbbed, and almost seemed to leap, with fearful rapidity.

'Dear child, I had no power to talk before, or I would not have kept you in suspense.  I am
afraid it will not do.'

'I was sure of it,' said Mary, almost in a whisper.  'Dear mamma, you should not have vexed
and tired yourself.'

'I comforted myself,' said Mrs. Ponsonby; 'I said things to him that I had longed to say, and
how beautifully he took them!  But I could not feel that he knew what he was about much better
than he did the first time.'

'It would not be right,' said Mary, in her old tone.

'I think your father might have been persuaded.  I would have written, and done my utmost--'

'Oh, mamma, anything rather than you should have that worry!'

'And I think things will be different--he is softened, and will be more so.  But it is foolish
to talk in this way, and it may be well that the trial should not be made; though that was
not the reason I answered Louis as I did.'

'I suppose it will be Miss Conway,' said Mary, trying to smile.

'At least, it ought to be no one else till he has seen enough of her to form a judgment without
the charm of prohibition; and this he may do without committing himself, as they are so nearly
connected.  I must ask his father to give him distinct permission, and then I shall have done
with these things.'

Mary would not break the silence, nor recall her to earthly interests; but she returned to
the subject, saying, wistfully, 'Can you tell me that you are content, dear child?'

'Quite content, thank you, mamma--I am certain it is right,' said Mary. 'It would be taking
a wrong advantage of his compassion.  I fall too far short of what would be wanted to make
him happy.'

She spoke firmly, but her eyes were full of tears.  Her mother felt as if no one could fail
of happiness with Mary, but, controlling the impulse, said, 'It is best, dearest; for you could
not bear to feel yourself unable to make him happy, or to fancy he might have more peace without
you.  My dear, your prospect is not all I could have wished or planned, but this would be too
cruel.'

'It is my duty to go to papa,' said Mary.  'What would be selfish could not turn out well.'

'If you could be sure of his feelings--if he were only less strangely youthful--No,' she added,
breaking off, as if rebuking herself, 'it is not to be thought of, but I do not wonder at you,
my poor Mary--I never saw any one so engaging, nor in whom I could place such confidence.'

'I am so glad!' said Mary, gratefully.  'You used not to have that confidence.'

'I feared his being led.  Now I feel as sure as any one can dare of his goodness.  But I have
been talking to him about self-reliance and consistency.  He is so devoid of ambition, and
so inert and diffident when not in an impetuous fit, that I dread his doing no good as well
as no evil.'

Mary shook her head.  Did she repress the expression of the sense that her arm had sometimes
given him steadiness and fixed his aim?'

'The resemblance to his mother struck me more than ever,' continued Mrs. Ponsonby.  'There
is far more mind and soul, but almost the same nature--all bright, indolent sweetness, craving
for something to lean on, but he shows what she might have been with the same principles. Dear
boy! may he do well!'

'He will be very happy with Miss Conway,' said Mary.  'She will learn to appreciate all he
says and does--her enthusiasm will spur him on. I shall hear of them.'

The unbreathed sigh seemed to be added to the weight of oppression on Mary's patient breast;
but she kept her eye steady, her brow unruffled.

All the joys did indeed appear to be passing from her with her mother, and she felt as if she
should never know another hour of gladness, nor of rest in full free open-hearted confidence,
but she could not dwell either on herself or on the future, and each hour that her mother was
spared to her was too precious to be wasted or profaned by aught that was personal.

Mrs. Ponsonby herself realized the weary soon to be at rest, the harassed well nigh beyond
the reach of troubling.  She treated each earthly care and interest as though there were peace
in laying it down for the last time.  At intervals, as she was able, she wrote a long letter
to her husband, to accompany the tidings of her death; and she held several conversations with
Mary on her conduct for the future. She hoped much from Mary's influence, for Mr. Ponsonby
was fond of his daughter, and would not willingly display himself in his worst colours before
her; and Mary's steadiness of spirits and nerves might succeed, where her own liability to
tears and trembling had always been a provocation.  Her want of judgment in openly preferring
her own relations to his uncongenial sister had sown seeds of estrangement and discord which
had given Mrs. Ponsonby some cause for self-reproach, and she felt great hope that her daughter
would prevail where she had failed.  There was little danger that he would not show Mary affection
enough to make her home-duties labours of love; and at her age, and with her disposition, she
could both take care of herself, and be an unconscious restraint on her father.  The trust
and hope that she would be the means of weaning her father from evil, and bringing him home
a changed man, was Mrs. Ponsonby's last bright vision.

As to scruples on Lord Ormersfield becoming Mary's escort on the voyage, Mrs. Ponsonby perceived
his determination to be fixed beyond remonstrance.  Perhaps she could neither regret that her
daughter should have such a protector, nor bear to reject his last kindness; and she might
have lingering hopes of the consequences of his meeting her husband, at a time when the hearts
of both would be softened.

These matters arranged, she closed out the world.  Louis saw her but once again, when other
words than their own were spoken, and when the scene brought back to him a like one which had
seemed his own farewell to this earth.  His thread of life was lengthened--here was the moment
to pray that it might be strengthened.  Firm purpose was wakening within him, and the battle-cry
rang again in his ears--'Quit yourselves like men; be strong!'

His eye sought Mary.  She looked, indeed, like one who could 'suffer and be strong.'  Her brow
was calm, though as if a load sat on her, borne too patiently to mar her peace.  The end shone
upon her, though the path might be hid in gloom: one step at a time was enough, and she was
blest above all in her mother's good hope.

A hush was on them all, as though they were watching while a tired, overtasked child sank to rest.

There was a space of suffering, when Mary and Miss Mercy did all that love could do, and kept
Mrs. Frost from the sight of what she could neither cheer nor alleviate, and when all she could
do was to talk over the past with Lord Ormersfield.

Then came a brief interval of relief and consciousness, precious for ever to Mary's recollection.
The last words of aught beneath were--'My dearest love to your father.  Tell him I know now
how much he has to forgive.'

The tender, impulsive, overhasty spirit had wrought for itself some of the trials that had
chastened and perfected it, even while breaking down the earthly tabernacle, so as to set free
the weary soul, to enter into Rest!

CHAPTER XIX.

MOONSHINE.

  He talked of daggers and of darts,
    Of passions and of pains,
  Of weeping eyes and wounded hearts,
    Of kisses and of chains:
  But still the lady shook her head,
    And swore by yea and nay,
  My whole was all that he had said,
    And all that he could say.
                     W. MACKWORTH PRAED.

Mary's strength gave way.  She was calm and self-possessed as ever, she saw Lord Ormersfield,
wrote to her aunt, made all necessary arrangements, and, after the funeral, moved to Mrs. Frost's
house. But, though not actually ill, she was incapable of exertion, could not walk up stairs
without fatigue; and after writing a letter, or looking over papers, Aunt Catharine would find
her leaning back, so wan and exhausted, that she could not resist being laid down to rest on
the sofa.

She shrank from seeing any fresh face, and the effort of talking to the Earl resulted in such
weariness and quiet depression, that Mrs. Frost dared not press her to admit any one else,
except Louis, who rode to the Terrace almost every day; but when the kind aunt, believing there
must be solace in the sight of her boy, begged to bring him in, Mary answered, with unusual
vehemence, 'Pray don't: tell him I cannot see any one.'  And when Mrs. Frost returned from
a sorrowful talk with Louis, she believed that Mary had been weeping.

Louis was sad enough.  Out of the few friends of his childhood he could ill afford to lose
one, and he grieved much for his father, to whom the loss was very great.  The Earl strove,
in his old fashion, to stifle sorrow in letters of business, but could not succeed: the result
was, that he would discuss the one, Mary's past, and the other, Mary's future, till time waxed
so short that he gladly accepted his son's assistance.  Conversations with Richardson and orders
to Frampton devolved on Louis, and the desire to do no mischief caused him to employ his intellect
in acquiring a new habit of attention and accuracy.

His reverence for Mary was doubled, and he was much concerned at his exclusion, attributing
it to his mistimed proposals, and becoming sensible that he had acted boyishly and without
due respect.  With a longing desire to do anything for her, he dared not even send her a greeting,
a flower, or a book, lest it should appear an intrusion; and but for his mournful looks, his
aunt would have been almost vexed at his so often preventing her from going to make another
attempt to induce his cousin to see him.

Mary first roused herself on finding that Lord Ormersfield was taking it for granted that she
would wait to hear from her father before sailing for Peru.  The correspondence which had passed
since her mother had begun to decline, had convinced her that he expected and wished for her
without loss of time, and the vessel whose captain he chiefly trusted was to sail at the end
of May.  She entreated to be allowed to go alone, declaring that she had no fears, and would
not endure that the Earl should double Cape Horn on her account; but he stood fast--he would
not be deprived of the last service that he could render to her mother, and he had not reliance
enough on her father to let her go out without any guardian or friend.

Recent letters from Mr. Ponsonby and from Oliver Dynevor reiterated requests for an intelligent
man conversant with mining operations, and Oliver had indicated a person whom he remembered
at Chevleigh; but, as his mother said, he forgot that people grew old in the Eastern hemisphere,
and the application was a failure.  Finding that Mary regarded it as her charge, Fitzjocelyn
volunteered to go to Illershall to consult his friend Mr. Dobbs; and his first meeting with
Mary was spent in receiving business-like instructions as to the person for whom he should inquire.

There were some who felt dubious when he was seen walking back from the station with a young
man who, in spite of broadcloth and growth, was evidently Tom Madison.

'I could not help it, Mary,' said Louis, 'it was not my fault that Dobbs would recommend him.'

Mr. Dobbs had looked this way and that, and concluded with, 'Well, Lord Fitzjocelyn, I do not
know who would answer your purpose better than the young fellow you sent here a year ago.'

It appeared that Tom had striven assiduously both to learn his business and to improve himself;
and, having considerable abilities, already brightened and sharpened by Louis, his progress
had been surprising. He had no low tastes, and was perfectly to be relied on for all essential
points; but Mr. Dobbs owned that he should be relieved by parting with him, as he was not liked
by his fellows, and was thought by the foremen to give himself airs.  Quarrels and misunderstandings
had arisen so often, that he himself had been obliged to exert an influence on his behalf,
which he feared might make him obnoxious to the accusation of partiality.  He considered that
the lad had worth, substance, and promise far beyond his fellows; but his blunt, haughty manners,
impatience of rough jokes, and rude avoidance of the unrefined, made him the object of their
dislike, so that it was probable that he would thrive much better abroad and in authority;
and at his age, he was more likely to adapt himself to circumstances, and learn a new language,
than an older man, more used to routine.

The vision of the land for digging gold and silver seemed about to be realized, just as Tom
had been growing learned enough to despise it. Enterprise and hopes of fortune made him wild
to go; and Mary after reading Dobbs's letter, and laying before Louis the various temptations
of Lima, found that he thought England to the full as dangerous for his protege.  She, therefore,
sent for the young man, and decided as dispassionately as she could, upon taking him.

The Ormersfield world was extremely indignant; Frampton and Gervas prophesied that no good
would come of such a choice, and marvelled at the Vicar, who gave the lad lodging in his house,
and spent the evenings in giving him such mathematical instruction and teaching of other kinds,
as he thought most likely to be useful to him.

To his surprise, however, Tom was much more grave and sober-minded under his promotion than
could have been expected.  Louis, who had undertaken his outfit, was almost disappointed to
find him so much out of heart, and so little responsive to cheerful auguries; and at last a
little hint at bantering about the individual at the Terrace explained his despondence.

It was all over.  Charlotte had hardly spoken to him while he was waiting at No. 5, and Miss
Faithfull's Martha had told him there had been nothing but walking and talking with Lady Conway's
fine butler, and that Charlotte would never have nothing more to say to him!  Now! Just as
he might have spoken!  Was it not enough to knock the heart out of it all!  He never wished
to go near No. 5 again.

Louis strongly advised him at least to know his fate, and declared that for his part, he would
never take any Mrs. Martha's word, rather than that of the lady herself.  Speak out, and, of
course, Montrose's famous motto came in, and was highly appreciated by Tom, though he still
shook his head ruefully, as he recollected what a lout he had been at his last meeting with
Charlotte, and how little he could compare with such a fine gentleman as had been described,
'And she always had a taste for gentility.'

'Well, Tom, I would not wish to see a better gentleman any day, than you have stuff enough
in you to make; and, if Charlotte be a girl worth having, she'll value that more than French
polish.  You're getting polished, too, Tom, and will more as you get better and sounder, and
that polish will be true and not French.'

Meantime Charlotte had been in twenty states of mind.  Had Tom striven at once to return to
the former terms, the Lady of Eschalott might have treated it as mere natural homage, compared
him with Delaford's delicate flatteries, and disclaimed him.  She had been chilling and shy
at the first meeting, expecting him to presume on his promotion, but when he was gone, came
no more, except for necessary interviews with Miss Ponsonby, and then merely spoke civilly,
and went away directly, her heart began to fail her. Neglect mortified her; she was first affronted,
sure she did not care, and resolved to show that she did not; but then the vexation became
stronger, she wondered if he had heard of Delaford, was angry at her intercourse with the butler
being deemed an offence, and finally arrived at a hearty longing for a return to old times.
Vanity or affection, one or the other, demanded Tom's allegiance.

And Tom came at last.  He did not come by moonlight--he did not come at all romantically; but
as she was washing vegetables, he stood by the scullery door, and made no elegant circumlocutions.
Would she be his wife, some time or other? and he would try to be worthy of her.

Fitzjocelyn had judged her rightly!  Sound true love had force enough to dispel every illusion
of sentimental flattery.  Charlotte burst into a flood of tears, and, sobbing behind her apron,
confessed that she never liked nobody like Tom, but she was afraid he would think she had been
false to him, for she did like Mr. Delaford's talk, all about poetry and serenades; but she
never would heed him no more, not if he went down on his knees to her.

Tom was a great deal more likely to perform that feat.

He stood his ground when Mrs. Beckett came in, and told her all about it, and the good old
soul mingled her tears with Charlotte's, wished them joy, and finished washing the greens.
Nevertheless Mrs. Frost thought the kitchen-clock was very slow.

Their 'walking together' was recognised.  Martha was very angry with Jane, and predicted that
the young vagabone would never be heard of more; and that the only benefit would be, that it
would settle the girl's mind, and hinder her from encouraging any more followers.  And even
Mrs. Frost had her doubts.  Her prudent counsel interfered with Tom's wish to carry out poor
little Charlotte as his wife; and they had to content themselves with a betrothal until they
should have 'saved something,' exchanging brooches, each with a memorial lock of hair. During
the remaining week, the Lady of Eschalott neither ate nor slept, and though she did her work,
her tears never seemed to cease.  She defended herself by averring that Miss Ponsonby's pillow
was soaked every morning; but if Mary's heavy eyelids corroborated her, her demeanour did not.
Mary was busy in dismantling the house and in packing up; speaking little, but always considerate
and self-possessed, and resolute in avoiding all excitement of feeling.  She would not go to
Ormersfield, as the Earl proposed, even for one day, and a few books connected with the happy
lessons of last summer, were given into Mrs. Frost's keeping, with the steady, calm word, 'I
had better not take them.'  She made no outpouring even to that universal, loving confidante,
Aunt Catharine; and the final parting did not break down her self-restraint, though, as the
last bend of her head was given, the last chimney of Northwold disappeared, her sensation of
heartache almost amounted to sickening.

She was going to Bryanston Square.  Her aunt had been as kind as possible, and had even offered
to come to Northwold to fetch her home; but Mary had been too considerate to allow her to think
of so dreadful a journey, and had in fact, been glad to be left only to her own Aunt Catharine.
The last letters which had passed between Mrs. Ponsonby and Annt Melicent had been such as
two sincere Christian women could not fail to write in such circumstances as must soften down
all asperities, alleviate prejudice and variance, and be a prelude to that perfect unity when
all misunderstandings shall end for ever; and thus Mary had the comfort of knowing that the
two whom she loved so fondly, had parted with all mutual affection and cordial honour.

She really loved the little prim stiff figure who stood on the stairs to welcome her.  The
house had been her home for ten of the most home-forming years of her life, and felt familiar
and kindly; it was very quiet, and it was an unspeakable comfort to be with one who talked
freely of her father with blind partiality and love, and did not oppress her with implied compassion
for her return to him.

Yet Mary could not help now and then being sensible that good Aunt Melicent was not the fountain
of wisdom which she used to esteem her. Now and then a dictum would sound narrow and questionable,
objections to books seemed mistaken, judgments of people hard, and without sufficient foundation;
and when Mary tried to argue, she found herself decidedly set down, with as much confident
superiority as if she had been still sixteen years old.  Six years spent in going to the other
side of the world, and in seeing so many varieties of people, did not seem to Aunt Melicent
to have conferred half so much experience as sleeping every night in Bryanston Square, daily
reading the Morning Post, and holding intercourse with a London world of a dozen old ladies,
three curates, and a doctor.

The worst of it was, that a hurt and angry tenderness was always excited in Mary's mind by
the manner of any reference to Northwold or Ormersfield.  It seemed to be fixed, beyond a doubt,
that everything there must have been wrong and fashionable; and even poor dear Aunt Kitty was
only spoken of with a charitable hope that affliction had taught her to see the error of her
days of worldly display.

It was allowed that there was nothing objectionable in Clara Frost, who was subdued by the
sight of Mary's deep mourning, and in silent formal company could be grave and formal too.
But there was a severe shock in a call from Lady Conway and Isabel; and on their departure
Mary was cross-examined, in the hope that they had been outrageously gay at Northwold, and
for want of any such depositions, was regaled with histories of poor Lady Fitzjocelyn's vanities,
which had not lost by their transmission through twenty-two years and twice as many mouths.

Still more unpleasant was the result of a visit from the Earl and his son to appoint the day
of starting for Liverpool.  Louis was in no mood to startle any one; he was very sad at heart,
and only anxious to be inoffensive; but his air was quite enough to give umbrage, and cause
the instant remark, 'I never saw such a puppy!'

Nothing but such angry incoherency occurred to Mary, that she forcibly held her peace, but
could not prevent a burning crimson from spreading over her face.  She went and stood at the
window, glad that Miss Ponsonby had just taken up the newspaper, which she daily read from
end to end, and then posted for Lima.

By and by came a little dry cough, as she went through the presentations at the levee, and
read out 'Viscount Fitzjocelyn, by the Earl of Ormersfield.'

Mary's mind made an excursion to the dear Yeomanry suit, till her aunt, having further hunted
them out among the Earls and Viscounts summed up at the end, severely demanded whether she
had known of their intention.

'I knew he was to be presented.'

'Quite the young man of fashion.  No doubt beginning that course, as if the estate were not
sufficiently impoverished already.  I am not surprised at the report that Lord Ormersfield
was very anxious to secure your fortune for his son.'

This was too much, and Mary exclaimed, 'He never believes in any fortune that depends on speculation.'

'Oh, so there was nothing in it!' said Miss Ponsonby, who would have liked the satisfaction
of knowing that her niece had refused to be a Countess, and, while Mary was debating whether
her silence were untruthful, her bent head and glowing cheek betrayed her.  'Ah! my dear, I
will ask no questions; I see you have been annoyed.  It always happens when a girl with expectations
goes among needy nobility.'

'You would not say that, if you knew the circumstances,' said Mary, looking down.

'I won't distress you, my dear; I know you are too wise a girl to be dazzled with worldly splendours,
and that is enough for me.'

The poor old furniture at Ormersfield!

Mary held her tongue, though reproaching herself for cruel injustice to all that was dearest
to her, but how deny her refusal, or explain the motives.

Not that her aunt wanted any explanation, except her own excellent training, which had saved
her niece from partaking her mother's infatuation for great people.  She had a grand secret
to pour into the bosom of her intimates in some tete-a-tete tea-party by-and-by, and poor Mary
little guessed at the glorification of her prudence which was flowing from her aunt's well-mended
pen, in a long letter to Mr. Ponsonby.  She thought it right that he should be informed, she
said, that their dear Mary had conducted herself according to their fondest wishes; that the
relations, among whom she had unfortunately been thrown, had formed designs on her fortune,
such as they had every reason to expect; that every solicitation had been employed, but that
Mary had withstood all that would have been most alluring to girls brought up to esteem mere
worldly advantages.  It was extremely gratifying, the more so as the young gentleman in question
might be considered as strikingly handsome to the mere outward eye, which did not detect the
stamp of frivolity, and the effect of an early introduction to the world of fashion and dissipation.
She trusted that their dear young heiress would have a better fate, owing to her own wisdom,
than being chosen to support the extravagance of a young titled adventurer.

Having worked herself up into enthusiastic admiration of her own work, Miss Ponsonby was kinder
than ever to her niece, and pitied her for being harassed with Lord Fitzjocelyn's company to
Liverpool.

Mary was not as much relieved as she had expected, when her hand had been released from his
pressure, and she had seen the last glimpse of his returning boat.

Henceforth her imagination was to picture him only with Isabel Conway.

And so Viscount Fitzjocelyn was left with more liberty than he knew what to do with.  He was
disinclined to begin the pursuit of Miss Conway, as if this would involve a want of delicacy
and feeling, and he had no other object.  The world was before him, but when he drove to the
Liverpool Station, he was unwilling to exert his mind to decide for what ticket to ask.

The bias was given by the recollection of a message from his father to Frampton.  It would
be less trouble to go home than to write, and, besides, Aunt Catharine was alone.  She was
his unfailing friend, and it would be a great treat to have her to himself.

Home then he went, where he spent the long summer days in listless, desultory, busy idleness,
often alone, dreaming over last year, often passing his evenings with his aunt, or bringing
her to see his designs; dining out whenever he was invited, and returning odd uncertain answers
when Mr. Calcott asked him what he was going to do.

Mr. Holdswolth was going to leave James in charge of his parish, and take a walking tour in
Cornwall, and perversely enough, Louis's fancy fixed on joining him; and was much disappointed
when Mrs. Frost proved, beyond dispute, that an ankle, which a little over haste or fatigue
always rendered lame, would be an unfair drag upon a companion, and that if he went at all,
it must not be on his own feet.

At last, Lady Conway made a descent upon Northwold.  Paris had become so tranquil that she
had no hesitation in taking her two elder daughters to make their promised visit; and such
appeals were made to Louis to join them, that it became more troublesome to refuse than to
comply, and, at the shortest notice, he prepared to set out as the escort of the Conway family.

'Now for it!' he thought.  'If she be the woman, I cannot fail to find it out, between the
inns and the sights!'

Short as the notice was, the Lady of Eschalott could have wished it shorter.  No sooner had
Mr. Delaford set foot in the House Beautiful, than Mrs. Martha announced to him that he would
be happy to hear that Charlotte Arnold was going to be married to a very respectable young
man, whom she had known all his life, and to whom Mr. Dynevor and Miss Ponsonby had given an
appointment to the gold mines, out of respect for Lord Fitzjocelyn.  Mr. Delaford gravely declared
himself glad to hear it.

But Delaford's purpose in life was, that no maiden should fail of being smitten with his charms;
and he took Charlotte's defection seriously to heart.  His first free moment was devoted to
a call in Number 5, but Charlotte was scouring in the upper regions, and Mrs. Beckett only
treated him to another edition of the gold mines, in which, if they became silver, the power
and grandeur of Mr. Oliver were mightily magnified.  Mr. Delaford thrummed his most doleful
tunes on the guitar that evening, but though the June sun was sinking beauteously, Charlotte
never put her head out.  However, the third time, he found her, and then she was coy and blushing,
reserved and distant, and so much prettier, and more genuine than all his former conquests,
that something beyond vanity became interested.

He courted the muses, and walked in with a pathetic copy of verses, which, some day or other,
might serve to figure in the county newspaper, complaining of desertion and cruelty.

Charlotte sat at the little round table; Jane was upstairs, and without her guardian, she felt
that she must guard herself.  He laid the verses down before her with a most piteous countenance.

'Please don't, Mr. Delaford,' she said; 'I asked Mrs. Beckett to tell you--'

'She has transfixed my breast,' was the commencement, and out poured a speech worthy of any
hero of Charlotte's imagination, but it was not half so pleasant to hear as to dream of, and
the utmost she could say was a reiteration of her 'please don't!'

At last she mustered courage to say, 'I can't listen, sir.  I never ought to have done it.
I am promised now, and I can't.'

A melodramatic burst of indignation frightened her nearly out of her senses, and happily brought
Jane down.  He was going the next day, but he returned once more to the charge, very dolorous
and ill-used; but Charlotte had collected herself and taken counsel by that time. 'I never
promised you anything, sir,' she said.  'I never knew you meant nothing.'

'Ah! Miss Arnold, you cannot interpret the heart!' and he put his hand upon it.

'Nor I don't believe you meant it, neither!' continued Charlotte, with spirit.  'They tell
me 'tis the way you goes on with all young women as have the ill-luck to believe you, and that
'tis all along of your hard-heartedness that poor Miss Marianne looks so dwining.'

'When ladies will throw themselves at a gentleman's head, what can a poor man do?  Courtesy
to the sex is my motto; but never, never did I love as I love you!' said Delaford--'never have
I spoken as I do now! My heart and hand are yours, fairest Charlotte!'

'For shame, Mr. Delaford; don't you know I am promised?'

He went on, disregarding--'My family is above my present situation, confidential though it
be; but I would at once quit my present post--I would open an extensive establishment for refreshment
at some fashionable watering-place.  My connexions could not fail to make it succeed.  You
should merely superintend--have a large establishment under you--and enjoy the society and
amusements for which you are eminently fitted.  We would have a library of romance and poetry--attend
the theatre weekly--and,'--(finishing as if to clench the whole) 'Charlotte, do you know what
my property consists of?  I have four hundred pounds and expectations!'

If Charlotte had not been guarded, what would have been the effect of the library of poetry
and romance?

But her own poetry, romance, and honest heart, all went the same way, and she cried out--'I
don't care what you have, not I.  I've promised, and I'll be true--get along with you!'

The village girl, hard pressed, was breaking out.

'You bid me go.  Cruel girl! your commands shall be obeyed.  I go abroad!  You know the disturbed
state of the Continent.--In some conflict for liberty, where the desperate poniard is uplifted--there--'

'Oh! don't talk so dreadful.  Pray--'

'Do you bid me pause?  At a word from you.  You are the arbitress of my destiny.'

'No; I've nothing to do--do go!  Only promise you'll not do nothing dangerous--'

'Reject me, and life is intolerable.  Where the maddened crowd rise upon their tyrants, there
in thickest of the fray--'

'You'll be the first to take to your heels, I'll be bound!  Ain't you ashamed of yourself,
to be ranting and frightening a poor girl that fashion?' cried the friendly dragon Martha,
descending on them.

'Do you apply that language to me, ma'am?'

'That I do! and richly you deserve it, too, sir!  See if your missus doesn't hear of your tricks,
if I find you at this again.'

The 'sex' fairly scolded the courteous Delaford off the field; and though she turned her wrath
on Charlotte for having encouraged him, and wondered what the poor young man over the seas
would think of it, her interposition had never been so welcome.  Charlotte cried herself into
tranquillity, and was only farther disturbed by a dismal epistle, conveyed by the shoe-boy
on the morning of departure, breathing the language of despair, and yet announcing that she
had better think twice of the four hundred pounds and expectations, for that it was her destiny
that she and no other should be the bride of Delaford.

'If I could only know he would do nothing rash!' sighed Charlotte.

Jane comforted her; Martha held that he was the last man in the world who would do anything
rash.  Miss Conway's Marianne, who was left behind, treated Charlotte as something ignominious,
but looked so ill, miserable, and pining, that Miss Mercy was persuaded she was going into
a decline, and treated her with greater kindness than she had met since she was a child.

In the meantime, Fitzjocelyn had begun with a fit of bashfulness. The knowledge that this was
the crisis, and that all his friends looked to the result of the expedition, made him feel
as if he were committing himself whenever he handed Isabel in or out of a carriage, and find
no comfort except in Virginia's chattering.

This wore off quickly; the new scene took effect on his impressible mind, and the actual sights
and sounds drove out all the rest.  His high spirits came back, he freely hazarded Mrs. Frost's
old boarding-school French, and laughed at the infinite blunders for which Virginia took him
to task, was excessively amused at Delaford's numerous adventures, and enjoyed everything to
the utmost.  To Miss Conway he turned naturally as the person best able to enter into the countless
associations of every scene; and Isabel, becoming aware of his amount of knowledge, and tone
of deep thought, perceived that she had done Mr. Frost Dynevor injustice in believing his friendship
blind or unmerited.

They were on most comfortable terms.  They had walked all over Versailles together, and talked
under their breath of the murdered Queen; they had been through the Louvre, and Isabel, knowing
it well of old, found all made vivid and new by his enthusiastic delight; they had marvelled
together at the poor withered 'popular trees,' whose name had conferred on them the fatal distinction
of trees of liberty; they had viewed, like earnest people, the scenes of republican Paris,
and discussed them with the same principles, but with sufficient difference in detail for amicable
argument.  They had thought much of things and people, and not at all of each other.

Only Isabel thought she would make the Viscount into a Vidame, both as more quaint and less
personal, and involving slight erasures, and Louis was surprised to find what was the true
current of his thoughts.  With Isabel propitious, without compunction in addressing her, with
all the novelty and amusement before him, he found himself always recurring to Mary, trying
all things by Mary's judgment, wondering whether he should need approval of his theories in
Mary's eyes, craving Mary's sympathies, following her on her voyage, and imagining her arrival.
Was it the perverse spirit of longing after the most unattainable?

He demanded of himself whether it were a fatal sign that he regretted the loss of Isabel, when
she went to spend a few days with her old governess.  Miss Longman had left the Conway family
in order to take care of the motherless children of a good-for-nothing brother, who had run
too deeply into debt to be able to return to England.  He was now dead, but she was teaching
English, and obtaining advantages of education for her nieces, which detained her at Paris;
and as she had a bed to offer her former pupil, Isabel set her heart on spending her last three
days in the unrestrained intercourse afforded by a visit to her.  Louis found that though their
party had lost the most agreeable member, yet it was not the loss of the sun; and that he was
quite as ready to tease his aunt and make Virginia laugh, as if Isabel had been looking on
with a smile of wonder and commiseration for their nonsense.

CHAPTER XX.

THE FANTASTIC VISCOUNT.

'My dear Fitzjocelyn, what is to be done?  Have you heard?  Delaford says these horrid creatures
are rising!  There was an attack on the Hotel de Ville last night!  A thousand people killed,
at least!--The National Guard called out!'

'One of the lions of Paris, my dear aunt; Virginia is seeing it in style.'

'Seeing it!  We must go at once.  They will raise those horrid barricades;--we shall be closed
in.  And Isabel gone to that governess! I wish I had never consented!  How could I come here
at all? Fitzjocelyn, what is to be done?'

'Drive round that way, if you are bent on going,' said Louia, coolly. 'Meantime, Virginia,
my dear, I will thank you for some coffee.'

'How can you talk of such things?' cried his aunt.  'It is all those savage wretches, mad because
the national workshops are closed. Delaford declares they will massacre all the English.'

'Poor wretches, I believe they are starving.  I think you are making yourself ill--the most
pressing danger.  Come, Virginia, persuade your mamma to sit down to breakfast, while I go
to reconnoitre. Where are the passports?'

Virginia had lost all terror in excitement, but neither she nor her mother could bear to let
him go out, to return they knew not when. The carriage had already been ordered, but Lady Conway
was exceedingly frightened at the notion of driving anywhere but direct to the railway station;
she was sure that they should encounter something frightful if they went along the Boulevards.

'Could not Delaford go to fetch Isabel?' suggested Virginia, 'he might take a carriage belonging
to the hotel.'

Delaford was summoned, and desired to go to fetch Miss Conway, but though he said, 'Yes, my
Lady,' he looked yellow and white, and loitered to suggest whether the young lady would not
be alarmed.

'I will go with you,' said Louis.  'Order the carriage, and I shall be ready.'

Lady Conway, to whom his presence seemed protection, was almost remonstrating, but he said,
'Delaford is in no state to be of use. He would take bonjour for a challenge.  Let me go with
him, or he will take care the young lady is alarmed.  When we are all together, we can do as
may seem best, and I shall be able better to judge whether we are to fight or fly.'

Outside the door he found Delaford, who begged to suggest to his lordship that my Lady would
be alarmed if she were left without either of them, he could hardly answer it to himself that
she should remain without any male protector.

'Oh yes, pray remain to defend her,' said Louis, much amused, and hastening down-stairs he
ordered the carriage to drive to Rue ----, off the Boulevard St. Martin.

He thought there were signs boding tempest.  Shops were closed, and men in blouses were beginning
to assemble in knots--here and there the red-cap loomed ominously in the far end of narrow
alleys, and in the wider streets the only passengers either seemed in haste like himself, or
else were National Guards hurrying to their alarm-post.

He came safely to Miss Longman's apartments, where he found all on the alert--the governess
and her nieces recounting their experiences of February, which convinced them that there was
more danger in returning than in remaining.  Miss Longman was urgent to keep Isabel and Lord
Fitzjocelyn for at least a few hours, which she declared would probably be the duration of
any emeute, but they knew this would cause dreadful anxiety, and when Fitzjocelyn proposed
returning alone, Isabel insisted on accompanying him, declaring that she had no fears, and
that her mother would be miserable if her absence should detain them.  Perhaps she was somewhat
deceived by the cool, almost ludicrous, light in which he placed the revolution, as a sort
of periodical spasm, and Miss Longman's predictions that the railway would be closed, only
quickened her preparations.

After receiving many entreaties to return in case of alarm, they took leave, Louis seating
himself beside the driver, as well to keep a look-out, as to free Miss Conway from fears of
a tete-a-tete.  Except for such a charge of ladies, he would have been delighted at the excitement
of an emeute; but he was far from guessing how serious a turn affairs were taking.

The dark blue groups were thickening into crowds; muskets and pikes were here and there seen,
and once he recognised the sinister red flag. A few distant shots were heard, and the driver
would gladly have hastened his speed, but swarms of haggard-looking men began to impede their
progress, and strains of 'Mourir pour la patrie' now and then reached their ears.

Close to the Porte St. Denis they were brought to a full stop by a dense throng, above whose
heads were seen a line of carriages, the red flag planted on the top.  Many hands were seizing
the horses' heads, and Louis leapt down, but not before the door had been opened, and voices
were exclaiming, 'Descendez citoyenne; au nom de la nation, descendez.'  The mob were not uncivil,
they made way for Louis, and bade him reassure her that no harm was intended, but the carriage
was required for the service of the nation.

Isabel had retreated as far as she could from their hands, but she showed no signs of quailing;
her eyes were bright, her colour high, and the hand was firm which she gave to Louis as she
stepped out. There was a murmur of admiration, and more than one bow and muttered apology about
necessity and the nation, as the crowd beheld the maiden in all her innate nobleness and dignity.

'Which way?' asked Louis, finding that the crowd were willing to let them choose their course.

'Home,' said Isabel, decidedly, 'there is no use in turning back.'

They pressed on past the barricade for which their carriage had been required, a structure
of confiscated vehicles, the interstices filled up with earth and paving stones, which men
and boys were busily tearing up from the trottoirs, and others carrying to their destination.
They were a gaunt, hungry, wolfish-looking race, and the first words that Isabel spoke were
words of pity, when they had passed them, and continued their course along the Boulevards,
here in desolate tranquillity.  'Poor creatures, they look as if misery made them furious!
and yet how civil they were.'

'Were you much alarmed?  I wish I could have come to you sooner.'

'Thank you; I knew that you were at hand, and their address was not very terrific, poor things.
I do not imagine there was any real danger.'

'I wish I knew whether we are within or without the barricades.  If within, we shall have to
cross another.  We are actually becoming historical!'

He broke off, amazed by Isabel's change of countenance, as she put her hand to the arm he held,
hastily withdrew it, and exclaimed, 'My bracelet! oh, my bracelet!' turning round to seek it
on the pavement.

'The ivory clasp?' asked Louis, perceiving its absence.

'Oh yes!' she cried, in much distress, 'I would not have lost it for all the world.'

'You may have left it at Miss Longman's.'

'No, no, I was never without it!'

She turned, and made a few retrograde steps, searching on the ground, as if conscious only
of her loss, shaking off his hand when he touched her arm to detain her.

A discovery broke on, him.  Well that he could bear it!

'Hark!' he said, 'there is cannon firing!  Miss Conway, you cannot go back.  I will do my utmost
to recover your clasp, but we must not stay here.'

'I had forgotten.  I beg your pardon, I did not think!' said Isabel, with a species of rebuked
submission, as if impressed by the calmness that gave authority to his manner; and she made
no remark as he made her resume his arm, and hurried her on past houses with closed doors and
windows.

Suddenly there was the sound of a volley of musketry far behind. 'Heaven help the poor wretches,'
said Louis; and Isabel's grasp tightened on his arm.

Again, again--the dropping sound of shot became continual.  And now it was in front as well
as in the rear; and the booming of cannon resounded from the heart of the city.  They were
again on the outskirts of a crowd.

'It is as I thought,' said Louis, 'we are between both.  There is nothing for it but to push
on, and see whether we can cross the barricades; are you afraid to encounter it!'

'No,' said Isabel.

'There is a convent not far off, I think.  We might find shelter for you there.  Yet they might
break in.  It might not be easy to meet. I believe you are safer with me.  Will you trust in me?'

'I will not have you endanger yourself for me.  Dispose of me as you will--in a convent, or
anywhere.  Your life is precious, your safety is the first thing.'

'You are speaking in irony.'

'I did not mean it: I beg your pardon.'  But she coloured and faltered. 'You must distinctly
understand that this is only as Englishman to Englishwoman.'

'As Englishman to Englishwoman,' repeated Louis, in her own formula. 'Or rather,' he added,
lowering his voice, 'trust me, for the sake of those who gave the clasp.'

He was answered by her involuntary pressure of his arm, and finally, to set her at ease, he
said, hurriedly, 'If it went wrong with me, it would be to Lima that I should ask you to send
my love.'

There was no time for more.  They were again on the freshly-torn ground, whence the pavement
had been wrenched.  The throng had thickened behind them, and seemed to be involving them in
the vortex. Above their heads Louis could see in front between the tall houses, the summit
of another barricade complete, surmounted with the red flag, and guarded by a fierce party
of ruffians.

All at once, tremendous yells broke out on all sides.  The rattle of a drum, now and then,
might be distinguished, shouts and shrieks resounded, and there was a sharp fire of musketry
from the barricade, and from the adjoining windows; there was a general rush to the front,
and Louis could only guard Isabel by pressing her into the recess of the closed doorway of
one of the houses, and standing before her, preventing himself from being swept away only by
exerting all his English strength against the lean, wild beings who struggled past him, howling
and screaming.  The defenders sprang upon the barricade, and thrust back and hurled down the
National Guards, whose heads were now and then seen as they vainly endeavoured to gain the
summit.  This desperate struggle lasted for a few minutes, then cries of victory broke out,
and there was sharp firing on both sides, which, however, soon ceased; the red flag and the
blouses remaining still in possession.  Isabel had stood perfectly silent and motionless through
the whole crisis, and though she clung to her protector's arm, it was not with nervous disabling
terror, even in the frightful tumult of the multitude.  There was some other strength with her!

'You are not hurt?' said Louis, as the pressure relaxed.

'Oh no! thank God!  You are not?'

'Are you ready?  We must make a rush before the next assault.'

A lane opened in the throng to afford passage for the wounded. Isabel shrank back, but Louis
drew her on hastily, till they had attained the very foot of the barricade, where a space was
kept clear, and there was a cry 'Au large, or we shall fire.'

'Let us pass, citizens,' said Louis, hastily rehearsing the French he had been composing. 
'You make not war on women.  Let me take this young lady to her mother.'

Grim looks were levelled at them by the fierce black-bearded men, and their mutterings of belle
made her cling the closer to her guardian.

'Let her pass, the poor child!' said more than one voice.

'Hein!--they are English, who take the bread out of our mouths.'

'If you were a political economist,' said Louis, gravely, fixing his eyes on the shrewd-looking,
sallow speaker, I would prove to you your mistake; but I have no time, and you are too good
fellows to wish to keep this lady here, a mark for the Garde Nationale.'

'He is right there,' said several of the council of chiefs, and a poissarde, with brawny arms
and a tall white cap, thrusting forward, cried out, 'Let them go, the poor children.  What
are they doing here? They look fit to be set up in the church for waxen images!'

'Take care you do not break us,' exclaimed Louis, whose fair cheek had won this tribute; and
his smile, and the readiness of his reply, won his admission to the first of the steps up the
barricade.

'Halte la!' cried a large-limbed, formidable-looking ruffian on the summit, pointing his musket
towards them; 'none passes here who does not bring a stone to raise our barricade for the rights
of the Red Republic, and cry, La liberte, l'egalite, et la, fraternite, let it fit his perfidious
tongue as it may.'

'There's my answer,' said Louis, raising his right arm, which was dripping; with blood, 'you
have made me mount the red flag!'

'Ha!' cried the friendly fishwife, 'Wounded in the cause of the nation! Let him go.'

'He has not uttered the cry!' shouted the rest.

Louis looked round with his cool, pensive smile.

'Liberty!' he said, 'what we mean by liberty is freedom to go where we will, and say what we
will.  I wish you had it, my poor fellows. Fraternity--it is not shooting our brother.  Egalite--I
preach that too, but in my own fashion, not yours.  Let me pass--si cela vou est egal.'

His nonchalant intrepidity--a quality never lost on the French--raised an acclamation of le
brave Anglais.  No one stirred a hand to hinder their mounting to the banquette, and several
hands were held out to assist in surmounting the parapet of this extempore fortification. Isabel
bowed her thanks, and Louis spoke them with gestures of courtesy; and shouts of high applause
followed them as they sped along the blood-stained street.

The troops were re-forming after the repulse, and the point was to pass before the attack could
be renewed, as well as not to be mistaken for the insurgents.

They were at once challenged, but a short explanation to the officer was sufficient, and they
were suffered to turn into the Rue Richelieu, where they were only pursued by the distant sounds
of warfare.

'Oh, Lord Fitzjocelyn!' cried Isabel, as he slackened his pace, and gasped for breath.

'You are sure you are not hurt?' he said.

'Oh no, no; but you--'

'It is very little,' he said--'a stray shot--only enough to work on their feelings.  What good-natured
rogues they were.  I will only twist my handkerchief round to stop the blood.  Thank you.'

Isabel tried to help him, but she was too much afraid of hurting him to draw the bandage tight.

They dashed on, finding people on the watch for tidings, and meeting bodies of the National
Guard, and when at length they reached the Place Vendome, they found the whole establishment
watching for them, and Virginia flew to meet them on the stairs, throwing her arms round her
sister, while Lady Conway started forward with the agitated joy, and almost anger, of one who
felt injured by the fright they had made her suffer.

'There you are!  What has kept you!  Delaford said they were slaughtering every one on the
Boulevards!'

'I warned you of the consequences of taking me,' said Louis, dropping into a chair.

'Mamma! he is all over blood!' screamed Virginia.

Lady Conway recoiled, with a slight shriek.

'It is a trifle,' said Louis;' Isabel is safe.  There is all cause for thankfulness.  We could
never have got through if she had not been every inch a heroine.'

'Oh, Lord Fitzjocelyn, if I could thank you!'

'Don't,' said Louis, with so exactly his peculiar droll look and smile, that all were reassured.

Isabel began to recount their adventure.

'In the midst of those horrid wretches! and the firing!' cried Lady Conway.  'My dear, how
could you bear it?  I should have died of fright!'

'There was no time for fear,' said Isabel, with a sort of scorn; 'I should have been ashamed
to be frightened when Lord Fitzjocelyn took it so quietly.  I was only afraid lest you should
repeat their horrid war-cry.  I honour your refusal.'

'Of course one would not in their sense, poor things, and on compulsion,' said Louis, his words
coming the slower from the exhaustion which made him philosophize, rather than exert himself.
'In a true sense, it is the war-cry of our life.'

'How can you talk so!' cried Lady Conway.  'Delaford says the ruffians are certain to overpower
the Guard.  We must go directly. Very likely this delay of yours may prevent us from getting
off at all.'

'I will find out whether the way be open,' said Louis, 'when I have-'

His words failed him, for as he rose, the handkerchief slipped off, a gush of blood came with
it, and he was so faint that he could hardly reach the sofa.

Lady Conway screamed, Virginia rang the bells, Isabel gave orders that a surgeon should be called.

'Spirits from the vasty deep,' muttered Louis, in the midst of his faintness, 'the surgeons
have graver work on hand.'

'For heaven's sake, don't talk so!' cried his aunt, without daring to look at him; 'I know
your arm is broken!'

'Broken bones are a very different matter, experto crede.  This will be all right when I can
stop the bleeding,' and steadying himself with difficulty, he reached the door, and slowly
repaired to his own room, while the girls sent Fanshawe and Delaford to his assistance.

Lady Conway, unable to bear the sight of blood, was in a state of nervous sobbing, which Virginia's
excited restlessness did not tend to compose; and Isabel walked up and down the room, wishing
that she could do anything, looking reproachfully at her mother, and exalting to the skies
the courage, presence of mind, and fortitude of the wounded knight.

Presently, Delaford came down with a message from Lord Fitzjocelyn that it was of no use to
wait for him, for as the butler expressed it, 'the haemorrhage was pertinacious,' and he begged
that the ladies would depart without regard to him.  'In fact,' said Delaford, 'it was a serious
crisis, and there was no time to be lost; an English gentleman, Captain Lonsdale, who had already
offered his services, would take care of his lordship, and my Lady had better secure herself
and the young ladies.'

'Leave Fitzjocelyn!' cried Virginia.

'Is it very dangerous, Delaford?' asked Lady Conway.

'I would not be responsible for the consequences of remaining, my Lady,' was the answer.  'Shall
I order the horses to be brought out?'

'I don't know.  Is the street full of people?  Oh! there is firing! What shall I do?  Isabel,
what do you say!'

Isabel was sitting still and upright; she hardly raised her eyelids, as she tranquilly said,
'Nothing shall induce me to go till he is better.'

'Isabel! this is most extraordinary!  Do you know what you are saying?'

Isabel did not weaken her words by repetition, but signed to Delaford to leave them, and he
never ventured to disregard Miss Conway. Virginia hung about her, and declared that she was
quite right; and Lady Conway, in restless despair, predicted that they would all be massacred,
and that her nephew would bleed to death, and appealed to every one on the iniquity of all
the doctors in Paris for not coming near him.

Poor Louis himself was finding it very forlorn to be left to Fanshawe, whose one idea was essences,
and Delaford, who suggested nothing but brandy.  Some aunts and cousins he had, who would not
have left him to their tender mercies.  He was growing confused and feeble, speculating upon
arteries, and then starting from a delusion of Mary's voice to realize his condition, and try
to waken his benumbed faculties.

At last, a decided step was heard, and he saw standing by him a vigorous, practical-looking
Englishman, and a black-eyed, white-hooded little Soeur de Charite.  Captain Lonsdale, on hearing
the calls for surgical aid, had without a word, hurried out and secured the brisk little Sister,
who, with much gesticulation, took possession of the arm, and pronounced it a mere trifle,
which would have been nothing but for the loss of blood, the ball having simply passed through
the fleshy part of the arm, avoiding the bone.  Louis, pleased with this encounter as a result
of the adventure, was soon in condition to rise, though with white cheeks and tottering step,
and to present to Lady Conway her new defender.

The sight of a bold, lively English soldier was a grand consolation, even though he entirely
destroyed all plans of escape by assuring her that there was a tremendous disturbance in the
direction of the Northern Railway, and that the only safe place for ladies was just where she
was.  He made various expeditions to procure intelligence, and his tidings were cheerful enough
to counteract the horrible stories that Delaford was constantly bringing in, throughout that
Saturday, the dreadful 24th of June, 1848.

It was late before any one ventured to go to bed; and Louis, weak and weary, had wakened many
times from dreamy perceptions that some wonderful discovery had been made, always fixing it
upon Mary, and then finding himself infinitely relieved by recollecting that it did not regard
her.  He was in the full discomfort of the earlier stage of this oft-repeated vision, when
his door was pushed open, and Delaford's trembling voice exclaimed, 'My Lord, I beg your pardon,
the massacre is beginning.'

'Let me know when it is over,' said Louis, nearly in his sleep.

Delaford reiterated that the city was bombarded, thousands of armed men were marching on the
hotel, and my Lady ought to be informed.  A distant cannonade, the trampling of many feet,
and terrified voices on the stairs, finally roused Louis, and hastily rising, he quitted his
room, and found all the ladies on the alert.  Lady Conway was holding back Virginia from the
window, and by turns summoning Isabel to leave it, and volubly entreating the master of the
hotel to secure it with feather-beds to defend them from the shot.

'Oh, Fitzjocelyn!' she screamed, 'tell him so--tell him to take us to the cellars.  Why will
he not put the mattresses against the windows before they fire?'

'I should prefer a different relative position for ourselves and the beds,' said Louis, in
his leisurely manner, as he advanced to look out. 'These are the friends of order, my dear
aunt; you should welcome your protectors.  Their beards and their bayonets by gaslight are
a grand military spectacle.'

'They will fire!  There will be fighting here!  They will force their way in.  Don't, Virginia--I
desire you will not go near the window.'

'We are all right.  You are as safe as if you were in your own drawing-room,' said Captain
Lonsdale, walking in, and with his loud voice drowning the panic, that Louis's cool, gentle
tones only irritated.

Isabel looked up and smiled, as Louis stood by her, leaving his aunt and Virginia to the martial
tones of their consoler.

'I could get no one to believe me when I said it was only the soldiers,' she observed, with
some secret amusement.

'The feather-bed fortress was the leading idea,' said Louis. 'Some ladies have a curious pseudo
presence of mind.'

'Generally, I believe,' said Isabel, 'a woman's presence of mind should be to do as she is
told, and not to think for herself, unless she be obliged.'

'Thinking for themselves has been fatal to a good many,' said Louis, relapsing into meditation--'this
poor Paris among the rest, I fancy. What a dawn for a Sunday morning!  How cold the lights
look, and how yellow the gas burns.  We may think of home, and be thankful!' and kneeling with
one knee on a chair, he leant against the shutter, gazing out and musing aloud.

'Thankful, indeed!' said Isabel, thoughtfully.

'Yes--first it was thinking not at all, and then thinking not in the right way.'

Isabel readily fell into the same strain.  'They turned from daylight and followed the glare
of their own gas,' said she.

So they began a backward tracing of the calamities of France; and, as Louis's words came with
more than usual slowness and deliberation, they had only come to Cardinal de Richelieu, when
Captain Lonsdale exclaimed, 'I am sorry to interrupt you, Lord Fitzjocelyn, but may I ask whether
you can afford to lose any more blood?'

'Thank you; yes, the bandage is loosened, but I was too comfortable to move,' said Louis, sleepily,
and he reeled as he made the attempt, so that he could not have reached his room without support.

The Captain had profited sufficiently by the Sister's example to be able to staunch the blood,
but not till the effusion had exhausted Louis so much that all the next day it mattered little
to him that the city was in a state of siege, and no one allowed to go out or come in. Even
a constant traveller like Captain Lonsdale, fertile in resource, and undaunted in search of
all that was to be seen, was obliged to submit, the more willingly that Fitzjocelyn needed
his care, and the ladies' terror was only kept at bay by his protection. He sat beside the
bed where lay Louis in a torpid state, greatly disinclined to be roused to attend when his
aunt would hasten into the room, full of some horrible rumour brought in by Delaford, and almost
petulant because he would not be alarmed.  All he asked of the Tricolor or of the Drapeau Rouge
for the present was to let him alone, and he would drop into a doze again, while the Captain
was still arguing away her terror.

More was true than he would allow her to credit and when the little Soeur de Charite found
a few minutes for visiting her patient's wound, her bright face was pale with horror and her
eyes red with weeping.

'Our good Archbishop!' she sobbed, when she allowed herself to speak, and to give way to a
burst of tears.  'Ah, the martyr!  Ah, the good pastor!  The miserable--But no--my poor people,
they knew not what they did!'

And as Louis, completely awakened, questioned her, she told how the good Archbishop Affre had
begun that Sunday of strife and bloodshed by offering his intercessions at the altar for the
unhappy people, and then offering his own life.  'The good shepherd giveth his life for the
sheep,' were his words, as he went forth to stand between the hostile parties, and endeavour
to check their fury against one another.  She herself had seen him, followed by a few priests,
and preceded by a brave and faithful ouvrier, who insisted on carrying before him a green branch,
as an emblem of his peaceful mission.  She described how, at the sight of his violet robes,
and the white cross on his breast, the brave boy gardes mobiles came crowding round him, all
black with powder, begging for his blessing, some reminding him that he had confirmed them,
while others cried, 'Your blessing on our muskets, and we shall be invincible,' while some
of the women asked him to carry the bandages and lint which they wished to send to the wounded.

On he went, comforting the wounded, absolving the dying, and exhorting the living, and at more
than one scene of conflict the combatants paused, and yielded to his persuasions; but at the
barricade at the Faubourg St. Antoine, while he was signing to the mob to give him a moment
to speak, a ball struck him, and followed by the weeping and horror-struck insurgents, he was
borne into the curate's house, severely wounded, while the populace laid down their weapons,
to sign a declaration that they knew not who had fired the fatal shot.

'No, no, it was none of our people!' repeated the little nun.  'Not one of them, poor lost
creatures as too many are, would have committed the act--so sacrilegious, so ungrateful!  Ah!
you must not believe them wicked.  It is misery that drove them to rise.  Hold!  I met a young
man--alas! I knew him well when he was a child--I said to him, 'Ah! my son, you are on the
bad train.'  'Bread, mother--it is bread we must have,' he answered.  'Why, would you speak
to one who has not eaten for twenty-four hours?'  I told him he knew the way to our kitchen.
'No, mother,' he said, 'I shall not eat; I shall get myself killed.''

Many a lamentable detail of this description did she narrate, as she busied herself with the
wound; and Louis listened, as he had listened to nothing else that day, and nearly emptied
his travelling purse for the sufferers.  Isabel and Virginia waylaid her on the stairs to admire
and ask questions, but she firmly, though politely, put them aside, unable to waste any time
away from her children--her poor wounded!

On Monday forenoon tranquillity was restored, the rabble had been crushed, and the organized
force was triumphant.  Still the state of siege continued, and no one was allowed free egress
or ingress, but the Captain pronounced this all nonsense, and resolutely set out for a walk,
taking the passports with him, and promising Lady Conway to arrange for her departure.

By-and-by he came in, subdued and affected by the procession which he had encountered--the
dying Archbishop borne home to his palace on a litter, carried by workmen and soldiers, while
the troops, who lined the streets, paid him their military salutes, and the people crowded
to their doors and windows--one voice of weeping and mourning running along Paris--as the good
prelate lay before their eyes, pale, suffering, peaceful, and ever and anon lifting his feeble
hand for a last blessing to the flock for whom he had devoted himself.

The Captain was so much impressed that, as he said, he could not get over it, and stayed for
some time talking over the scene with the young ladies, before starting up, as if wondering
at his own emotion, he declared that he must go and see what they would do next.

Presently afterwards, Fitzjocelyn came down stairs.  His aunt was judiciously lying down in
her own apartment to recruit her nerves after her agitation, and had called Virginia to read
to her, and Isabel was writing her journal, alone, in the sitting-room.  Lady Conway would
have been gratified at her eager reception of him, but, as he seemed very languid, and indisposed
for conversation, she continued her occupation, while he rested in an arm-chair.

Presently he said, 'Is it possible that you could have left that bracelet at Miss Longman's?'

'Pray do not think about it,' exclaimed Isabel; 'I am ashamed of my childishness!  Perhaps,
but for that delay, you would not have been hurt,' and her eyes filled with tears, as her fingers
encircled the place where the bracelet should have been.

'Perhaps, but for that delay, we might both have been shot,' said Louis.  'No, indeed; I could
not wonder at your prizing it so much.'

'I little thought that would be the end of it,' said Isabel.  'I am glad you know its history,
so that I may have some excuse;' and she tried to smile, but she blushed deeply as she dried
her eyes.

'Excuse? more than excuse!' said Louis, remembering his fears that it would be thrown away
upon her.  'I know--'

'He has told you!' cried Isabel, starting with bashful eagerness.

'He has told me what I understand now,' said Louis, coming near in a glow of grateful delight.
'Oh, I am so glad you appreciate him. Thank you.'

'You are inferring too much,' said Isabel, turning away in confusion.

'Don't you mean it!' exclaimed Louis.  'I thought--'

'We must not mistake each other,' said Isabel, recovering her self-possession.  'Nothing amounting
to what you mean ever passed, except a few words the last evening, and I may have dwelt on
them more than I ought,' faltered she, with averted head.

'Not more than he has done, I feel certain,' said Louis; 'I see it all! Dear old Jem!  There's
no such fellow in existence.'  But here perceiving that he was going too far, he added, almost
timidly, 'I beg your pardon.'

'You have no occasion,' she said, smiling in the midst of her blushes. 'I feared I had said
what I ought not.  I little expected such kind sympathy.'

She hastily left him, and Lady Conway soon after found him so full of bright, half-veiled satisfaction,
that she held herself in readiness for a confession from one or both every minute, and, now
that the panic was over, gave great credit to the Red Republicans for having served her so
effectually, and forgave the young people for having been so provoking in their coolness in
the time of danger, since it proved how well they were suited to each other.  She greatly enjoyed
the universally-implied conviction with regard to the handsome young pair. Nor did they struggle
against it; neither of them made any secret of their admiration for the conduct of the other,
and the scrupulous appellations of Miss Conway and Lord Fitzjocelyn were discarded for more
cousinly titles.

The young hero fell somewhat in his aunt's favour when he was missing at the traveller's early
breakfast, although Delaford reported him much better and gone out.  'What if he should be
late for the train?--what if he should be taken up by the police?'  Virginia scolded her sister
for not being equally restless, and had almost hunted the Captain into going in search of him;
when at last, ten minutes before the moment of departure, in he came, white, lame, and breathless,
but his eyes dancing with glee, and his lips archly grave, as he dropped something into Isabel's
lap.

'Her bracelet!' exclaimed Virginia, as Isabel looked up with swimming eyes, unable to speak.
'Where did you find it?'

'In the carriage, in the heart of the barricade at the Porte St. Denis.'

'It is too much!' cried Isabel, recovering her utterance, and rising with her hands locked
together in her emotion.  'You make me repent my having lamented for it!'

'I had an old respect for Clara's clasp.'

'I never saw a prettier attention,' said his aunt.

'It is only a pity that you cannot fasten it on for her.'

'That could only be done by the right hand,' muttered Louia, under his breath, enjoying her blush.

'You have not told us how you got it!' said Virginia.

'It struck me that there was a chance, and I had promised to lose none. I found the soldiers
in the act of pulling down the barricade. What an astonishing construction it is!  I spoke
to the officer, who was very civil, and caused me to depose that I had hired the carriage,
and belonged to the young lady.  I believe my sling had a great effect; for they set up a shout
of acclamation when the bracelet appeared, lying on the cushion as quietly as if it were in
its own drawer.'

'The value will be greater than ever now, Isabel,' said Lady Conway. 'You will never lose it
again!'

Isabel did not gainsay her.

The Captain shrugged his shoulders, and looked sagacious at his patient's preparation for the
journey before him.

Louis gravely looked into his face as he took leave of him, and said, 'You are wrong.'

The Captain raised his eyebrows incredulously.  As they left the city, the bells of all the
churches were tolling for the martyred Archbishop. And not for him alone was there mourning
and lamentation through the city: death and agony were everywhere; in some of the streets,
each house was a hospital, and many a groan and cry of mortal pain was uttered through that
fair summer-day.  Louis, in a low voice, reminded Isabel that, on this same day, the English
primate was consecrating the abbey newly restored for a missionary college; and his eyes glistened
as he dwelt with thanksgiving upon the contrast, and thought of the 'peace within our walls,
and plenteousness within our palaces.'

He lay back in his corner of the carriage, too much tired to talk; though, by-and-by, he began
to smile over his own musings, or to make some lazily ludicrous remark to amuse Virginia. 
His aunt caressed her wounded hero, and promoted his intercourse with Isabel, to his exquisite
amusement, in his passive, debonnaire condition, especially as Isabel was perfectly insensible
to all these manuoevres.

There she sat, gazing out of window, musing first on the meeting with the live Sir Roland,
secondly on the amends to be made in the 'Chapel in the valley.'  The Cloten of the piece must
not even be a Vidame nothing distantly connected with a V; even though this prototype was comporting
himself much more like the nonchalant, fantastic Viscount, than like her resolute, high-minded
Knight at the Porte St. Denis.

CHAPTER XXI.

THE HERO OF THE BARRICADES.

  The page slew the boar,
  The peer had the gloire.
               Quentin Durward.

Great uneasiness was excited at Dynevor Terrace by the tidings of the insurrection at Paris.
After extracting all possible alarm from her third-hand newspaper, Mrs. Frost put on her bonnet
to set off on a quest for a sight of the last day's Times.  James had offered to go, but she
was too restless to remain at home; and when he had demonstrated that the rumour must be exaggerated,
and that there was no need for alarm, he let her depart, and as soon as she was out of sight,
caught up the paper to recur to the terrible reports of the first day's warfare.  He paced
about the little parlour, reviling himself for not having joined the party, to infuse a little
common sense; Fitzjocelyn, no more fit to take care of himself than a baby, probably running
into the fray from mere rash indifference!  Isabel exposed to every peril and terror!  Why
had he refused to join them? The answer was maddening. He hated himself, as he found his love
for his cousin melting under the influence of jealousy, and of indignation that his own vehement
passion must be sacrificed to the tardy, uncertain love which seemed almost an insult to such
charms.

'What needs dwelling on it?' he muttered; 'doubtless they are engaged by this time!  I shall
surely do something desperate if they come here, under my very eye.  Would that I could go
to the Antipodes, ere I forfeit Louis's love!  But my grandmother, Clara!  Was ever man so
miserably circumstanced?'

A hand was on the door; and he strove to compose his face lest he should shock his grandmother.

It was not Mrs. Frost.

'Louis! for Heaven's sake, where are they!'

'In the House Beautiful.'

James breathed--'And you! what makes you so pale?  What have you done to your arm?

'A little affair of the barricades.  I have been watering the French Republic with my blood.'

'Rushing into the thickest of the row, of course.'

'Only escorting Miss Conway through an assault of the Garde Nationale said Louis, in a tone
as if he had been saying 'walking up the High Street.'  How could he help teasing, when he
could make such amends?

James began to pace up and down again, muttering something about madness and frenzy.

'It was not voluntary,' said Louis.  'When the carriage was confiscated for the service of
the nation, what could we do?--I can tell you, Jem,' he added, fervently, 'what a gallant being
she is! It was the glorious perfection of gentle, lofty feminine courage, walking through the
raging multitude--through shots, through dreadful sights, like Una through the forest, in Christian
maidenly fearlessness.'

James had flung himself into a chair, hiding his face, and steadying his whole person, by resting
his elbow on his knee and his brow on his hand, as he put a strong force on himself that he
might hear Louis out without betraying himself.  Louis paused in ardent contemplation of the
image he had called up, and poor James gruffly whispered, 'Go on: you were happy.'

'Very happy, in knowing what cause I have to rejoice for you.'

James gave a great start, and trembled visibly.

'I did not tell you,' pursued Louis, 'that the single moment when she lost her firmness, was
when she thought she had lost a certain ivory clasp.'

James could endure no more: 'Louis,' he said, 'you must try me no longer.  What do you mean?'

Louis affectionately put his hand on his shoulder: 'I mean, dear Jem, that I understand it
now; and it is a noble heart that you have won, and that can value you as you deserve.'

James wrung his hand, and looked bewildered, inquiring, and happy; but his quivering lips could
form no words.

'It was a time to reveal the depths of the heart,' said Louis.  'A few words and the loss of
the bracelet betrayed much: and afterwards, as far as a lady could, she confessed that something
which passed between you the last evening--'

'Louis!' cried James, 'I could not help it!  I had been striving against it all along; but
if you could imagine how I was tried!  You never would come to plead your own cause, and I
thought to work for you, but my words are too near the surface.  I cut myself short.  I have
bitterly reproached myself ever since, but I did not know the harm I had done you.  Can you
forgive me?  Can you--No, it is vain to ask; you never can be happy.'

'My dear Jem, you go on at such a pace, there is no answering you. There is no forgiveness
in the case.  Further acquaintance had already convinced me that she was lovely and perfect,
but that 'she is na mine ain lassie.'  Yes, she caught my imagination; and you and my father
would have it that I was in love, and I supposed you knew best: but when I was let alone to
a rational consideration, I found that to me she is rather the embodied Isabel of romance,
a beauteous vision, than the--the--in short, that there is another who has all that I am wanting
in.  No, no, dear Jem; it was you who made the generous sacrifice. Have no scruples about me;
I am content with the part of Una's Lion, only thankful that Sans-Loy and Sans-Foy had not
quite demolished him before he had seen her restored to the Red Cross Knight.'

It was too much for James; he hid his face in his hands, and burst into tears.  Such joy dawning
on him, without having either offended or injured his cousin, produced a revulsion of feeling
which he could not control, and hearing the street-door opened, he ran out of the room, just
before his grandmother came hurrying in, on the wings of the intelligence heard below.

'Yes!  I knew my own boy would come to me!' she cried.  'Even Miss Conway has not begun to
keep him from me yet.'

'Nor ever will, Aunt Kitty.  There are obstacles in the way.  You must be granny, and mother,
and sister and wife, and all my womankind, a little longer, if you please.'  And he sat down
fondly at her feet, on a footstool which had been his childish perch.

'Not distressed, you insensible boy?'

'Very happy about Isabel,' said he, turning to look at her with eyes dancing with merry mystification.

'A foolish girl not to like my Louis!  I thought better of her; but I suppose my Lady has taught
her to aim higher!'

'So she does,' said Louis, earnestly.

'Ungrateful girl!  Why, Charlotte tells me you led her straight over the barricades, with cannon
firing on you all the time!'

'But not Cupid.'

'Then, it is true! and you have really hurt yourself!  And so pale! My poor boy--what is it?
I must nurse you.'

'I had so little blood left, that a gnat of tolerable appetite could have made an end of me
on Sunday, without more ado.  But, instead of that, I had a good little Sister of Charity;
and wasn't that alone worth getting a bullet through one's arm?'

Aunt Catharine was shuddering thankfully through the narration, when James came down, his brow
unclouded, but his manner still agitated, as if a burthen had been taken away, and he hardly
knew how to realize his freedom from the weight.

Mrs. Frost could not part with her boy, and Jane Beckett evidently had a spite against 'they
French bandages;' so that Louis only talked of going home enough to get himself flattered and
coaxed into remaining at No. 5, as their patient.

The two young men went in the afternoon to inquire after the Conway party, when they found
that her ladyship was lying down, but Isabel, who had been summoned from a wholesale conflagration
of all the MS. relating to the fantastic Viscount, brought down Miss King, apparently to converse
for her; for she did little except blush, and seemed unable to look at either of the friends.

As they took leave, Louisa came into the room with a message that mamma hoped to see Mr. Frost
Dynevor to-morrow, and trusted that he had made no engagements for the holidays.

James murmured something inaudible, and ran down stairs, snarling at Louis as he turned to
the Miss Faithfulls' door, and telling him he wanted to obtain a little more petting and commiseration.

'I could not waste such an opportunity of looking interesting!' said Louis, laughing, as he
tapped at the door.

Delaford marshalled out the poor tutor with a sense of triumph.  'His hopes, at least, were
destroyed!' thought the butler; and he proceeded to regale Marianne with the romance of the
Barricades,--how he had himself offered to be Miss Conway's escort, but Lord Fitzjocelyn had
declared that not a living soul but himself should be the young lady's champion; and, seeing
the young nobleman so bent on it, Mr. Delaford knew that the force of true affection was not
to be stayed, no more than the current of the limpid stream, and had yielded the point; and,
though, perhaps, his experience might have spared her the contaminating propinquity of the
low rabble, yet, considering the circumstances, he did not regret his absence, since he was
required for my lady's protection, and, no doubt, two fond hearts had been made happy.  Then,
in the midnight alarm, when the young nobleman had been disabled, Delaford had been the grand
champion:--he had roused the establishment; he had calmed every one's fears; he had suggested
arming all the waiters, and fortifying the windows; he had been the only undaunted representative
of the British Lion, when the environs swarmed with deadly foes, with pikes and muskets flashing
in the darkness.

Fanshawe had been much too busy with her ladyship's nerves, and too ignorant of French, to
gather enough for his refutation, had she wished for it; and, in fact, she had regarded him
as the only safeguard of the party, devoutly believing all his reports, and now she was equally
willing to magnify her own adventures.  What a hero Delaford was all over the terrace and its
vicinity!  People looked out to see the defender of the British name; and Charlotte Arnold
mended stockings, and wondered whether her cruelty had made him so desperately courageous.

She could almost have been sorry that the various arrivals kept the domestic establishments
of both houses so fully occupied!  Poor Tom! she had been a long time without hearing of him!
and a hero was turning up on her hands!

The world was not tranquil above-stairs.  The removal of the one great obstacle to James's
attachment had only made a thousand others visible; and he relapsed into ill-suppressed irritability,
to the disappointment of Louis, who did not perceive the cause.  At night, however, when Mrs.
Frost had gone up, after receiving a promise, meant sincerely, however it might be kept, that
'poor Louis' should not be kept up late, James began with a groan:

'Now that you are here to attend to my grandmother, I am going to answer this advertisement
for a curate near the Land's End.'

'Heyday!'

'It is beyond human endurance to see her daily and not to speak! I should run wild!  It would
be using Lady Conway shamefully.'

'And some one else.  What should hinder you from speaking?'

'You talk as if every one was heir to a peerage.'

'I know what I am saying.  I do not see the way to your marriage just yet, but it would be
mere trifling with her feelings, after what has passed already, not to give her the option
of engaging herself.'

'I'm sure I don't know what I said!  I was out of myself.  I was ashamed to remember that I
had betrayed myself, and dared not guess what construction she put on it.'

'Such a construction as could only come from her own heart!'

After some raptures, James added, attempting to be cool, 'You candidly think I have gone so
far, that I am bound in honour to make explanation.'

'I am sure it would make her very unhappy if you went off in magnanimous silence to the Land's
End; and remaining as the boy's tutor, without confession, would be a mere delusion and treachery
towards my aunt.'

'That woman!'

'She is not her mother.'

'Who knows how far she will think herself bound to obedience?  With that sort of relationship,
nobody knows what to be at.'

'I don't think Isabel wishes to make her duty to Lady Conway more stringent than necessary.
They live in utterly different spheres; and, at least, you can be no worse off than you are
already.'

'I may be exposing her to annoyance.  Women have ten million ways of persecuting each other.'

'Had you seen Isabel's eye when she looked on the wild crowd, you would know how little she
would heed worse persecution than my poor aunt could practise.  It will soon be my turn to
say you don't deserve her.'

James was arguing against his own impulse, and his scruples only desired to be talked down;
Louis's generous and inconsiderate ardour prevailed, and, after interminable discussion, it
was agreed that, after some communication with the young lady herself, an interview should
be sought with Lady Conway, for which James was already bristling, prepared to resent scorn
with scorn.

In the morning, he was savage with shamefacedness, could not endure any spectator, and fairly
hunted his cousin home to Ormersfield, where Louis prowled about in suspense--gave contradictory
orders to Frampton, talked as if he was asleep, made Frampton conclude that he had left his
heart behind him, and was ever roaming towards the Northwold turnpike.

At about four o'clock, a black figure was seen posting along the centre of the road, and, heated,
panting, and glowing, James came up--made a decided and vehement nod with his head, but did
not speak till they had turned into the park, when he threw himself flat on the grass under
an old thorn, and Louis followed his example, while Farmer Morris's respectable cows stared
at the invasion of their privacy.

'Tout va bien?' asked Louis.

'As well as a man in my position can expect!  She is the most noble of created beings, Louis!'

'And what is her mother?'

'Don't call her mother!  You shall hear.  I could not stay at home! I went to the Faithfulls'
room: I found Miss Mercy waiting for her, to join in a walk to some poor person.  I went with
them.  I checked her when she was going into the cottage.  We have been walking round Brackley's
fields--'

'And poor Miss Mercy?'

'Never remembered her till this moment!'

'She will forgive!  And her ladyship?'

'That's the worst of it.  She was nearly as bad as you could have been!--so intensely civil
and amiable, that I began to think her all on my side.  I really could be taken in to suppose
she felt for us!'

'I have no doubt she did.  My good aunt is very sincerely loth to hurt people's feelings.'

'She talked of her duty!  She sympathized!  It was not till I was out of the house that I saw
it was all by way of letting me down easy-trapping me into binding myself on honour not to
correspond.'

'Not correspond!' cried Louis, in consternation.  'Are you not engaged?'

'As far as understanding each other goes.  But who knows what may be her machinations, or Isabel's
sense of obedience?'

'Does she forbid it?'

'No.  She went to speak to Isabel.  I fancy she found it unwise to test her power too far;
so she came down and palavered me,--assured me that I was personally all that heart could wish--she
loved her dear child the better for valuing solid merit.  Faugh! how could I stand such gammon?
But I must perceive that she was peculiarly circumstanced with regard to Isabel's family, she
must not seem to sanction an engagement till I could offer a home suited to her expectations.
She said something of my Uncle Oliver; but I disposed of that.  However, I dare say it made
her less willing to throw me overboard!  Anyway, she smoothed me and nattered me, till I ended
by agreeing that she has no choice but to remove instanter from the Terrace, and forbid me
her abode!  And, as I said, she wormed a promise from me not to correspond.'

'You have no great loss there. Depend upon it that Isabel would neither brave her openly by
receiving your letters, nor submit to do anything underhand.'

'Nor would I ask her!--but it is intolerable to have been tricked into complacent consent.'

'I am glad your belle-mere knows how to manage you.'

'I told you she was only less unbearable than yourself.  You have it from the same stock.'

'The better for your future peace.  I honour her.  If she had let the Welsh dragon show his
teeth in style, he would only have had to make unpleasant apologies when the good time comes.'

'When!' sighed James.

'If Isabel be the woman I take her for, she will be easily content.'

'She is sick of parade; she has tried how little it can do for a mind like hers: she desires
nothing but a home like our own--but what prospect have I of any such thing?  Even if the loss
of my fellowship were compensated, how could I marry and let Clara be a governess? Clara must
be my first consideration.  But, I say, we ought to be going home.'

'I thought I was at home.'

'My grandmother and Jane won't be pacified till they see you.  They think you are not fit to
be in a house by yourself.  They both fell on me for having let you go.  You must come back,
or my grandmother will think you gone off in despair, as you ought to be, and I shall never
dare to speak to her.'

'At your service,' said the duteous Fitzjocelyn.  'I'll leave word at the lodge.'

'By-the-bye, are you up to walking?'

'Candidly, now I think of it, I doubt whether I am.  Come, and let us order the carriage.'

'No--no;--I can't stand waiting--I'll go home and get over the first with granny--you come
after.  Yes; that's right.'

So the hunted Louis waited, contentedly, while James marched back, chary of his precious secret,
and unwilling to reveal it even to her, and yet wanting her sympathy.

The disclosure was a greater shock than he had expected from her keen and playful interest
in matters of love and matrimony.  It was a revival of the mournful past, and she shed tears
as she besought him not to be imprudent, to remember his poor father, and not rush into a hasty
marriage.  He and his sister had been used to poverty, but it was different with Miss Conway.

He bitterly replied, that Lady Conway would take care they were not imprudent; and that instant
the granny's heart melted at the thought of his uncertain prospect, and at hearing of the struggles
and sufferings that he had undergone.  They had not talked half an hour, before she had taken
home Isabel Conway to her heart as a daughter, and flown in the face of all her wisdom, but
assuring him that she well knew that riches had little to do with happiness, auguring an excellent
living, and, with great sagacity, promising to settle the Terrace on his wife, and repeating,
in perfect good faith, all the wonderful probabilities which her husband had seen in it forty
years ago.

When Louis arrived, he found her alone, and divided between pride in her grandson's conquest,
and some anxiety on his own account, which took the form of asking him what he meant by saying
that Isabel aimed higher than himself.

'Did she not?' said Louis; and with a sort of compunction for a playful allusion to the sacred
calling, he turned it off with, 'Why, what do you think of Roland ap Dynasvawr ap Roland ap
Gruffydd ap Rhys ap Morgan ap Llywellwyn ap Roderic ap Caradoc ap Arthur ap Uther ap Pendragon?'
running this off with calm, slow, impressive deliberation.

'Certify me, Louis dear, before I can quite rejoice, that this fun is not put on.'

'Did you think me an arrant dissembler?  No, indeed: before I guessed how it was with them,
I had found out--Oh! Aunt Kitty, shall I ever get Mary to believe in me, after the ridiculous
way in which I have behaved to her?'

'Is this what you really mean?'

'Indeed it is.  The very presence of Isabel could not keep me from recurring to her; and at
home, not a room, not a scene, but is replete with recollections of all that she was to me
last year!  And that I should only understand it when half the world is between us! How mad
I was!  How shall I ever persuade her to forget my past folly?  Past! Nay, folly and inconsistency
are blended in all I do, and now they have lost me the only person who could help me to conquer
them!  And now she is beyond my reach, and I shall never be worthy of her.'

He was much agitated.  The sight of James's success, and the return to his solitary home, had
stirred up his feelings very strongly; and he needed his aunt's fond soothing and sympathy--but
it was not difficult to comfort and cheer him.  His disposition was formed more for affection
than passion, and his attachment to Mary was of a calmer nature than his fiery cousin would
have allowed to be love. It took a good deal of working-up to make it outwardly affect his
spirits or demeanour, in general, it served only as an ingredient in the pensiveness that pervaded
all his moods, even his most arrant nonsense.

The building of castles for James, and the narration of the pleasing delusion in which he had
brought home his aunt, were sufficient to enliven him.  He was to go the next morning to call
upon Lady Conway, and see whether he could persuade her into any concessions: James was very
anxious that Isabel and his grandmother should meet, and was beginning to propose that Louis
should arrange an interview for them in Miss Faithfull's room, before the departure, which
was fixed for Monday.

'I intend to call upon Lady Conway,' said Mrs. Frost, with dignity that made him feel as if
he had been proposing something contraband.

Louis went first, and was highly entertained by the air of apology and condolence with which
his aunt received him.  She told him how excessively concerned she was, and how guilty she
felt towards him--a score on which, he assured her, she had no need to reproach herself. She
had heard enough from Isabel to lead to so much admiration of his generosity, that he was obliged
to put a stop to it, without being skilful enough to render sincerity amiable, but she seemed
satisfied, eagerly assured him of her approval, and declared that she fully understood him.

Had she explained, he would have thought her understanding went too far.  She entirely forgave
him.  After all, he was her own sister's son, and Isabel only a step-daughter; and though she
had done her duty by putting Isabel in the way of the connexion, she secretly commended his
prudence in withstanding beauty, and repairing the dilapidated estate with Peruvian gold. 
She sounded him, as a very wise man, on the chances of Oliver Dynevor doing something for his
nephew, but did not receive much encouragement; though he prophesied that James was certain
to get on, and uttered a rhapsody that nearly destroyed his new reputation for judgment.  Lady
Conway gave him an affectionate invitation to visit her whenever he could, and summoned the
young ladies to wish him good-bye.  The mute, blushing gratitude of Isabel's look was beautiful
beyond description; and Virginia's countenance was exceedingly arch and keen, though she was
supposed to know nothing of the state of affairs.

Lady Conway was alone when Mrs. Frost was seen approaching the house. The lady at once prepared
to be affably gracious to her apologies and deprecations of displeasure; but she was quite
disconcerted by the dignified manner of her entrance;--tall, noble-looking, in all the simple
majesty of age, and of a high though gentle spirit, Lady Conway was surprised into absolute
respect, and had to rally her ideas before, with a slight laugh, she could say, 'I see you
are come to condole with me on the folly of our two young people.'

'I think too highly of them to call it folly,' said the heiress of the Dynevors.

'Why, in one way, to be sure,' hesitated Lady Conway, 'we cannot call it folly to be sensible
of each other's merits; and if--if Mr. Dynevor have any expectations--I think your son is unmarried?'

'He is;' but she added, smiling, 'you will not expect me to allow that my youngest child is
old enough to warrant any calculations on that score.'

'It is very unfortunate; I pity them from my heart.  An engagement of this kind is a wretched
beginning for life.'

'Oh, do not say so!' cried the old lady, 'it may often be the greatest blessing, the best incentive
to both parties.'

Lady Conway was too much surprised to make a direct answer, but she continued, 'If my brother
could exert his interest--and I know that he has so high an opinion of dear Mr. Dynevor--and
you have so much influence.  That dear, generous Fitzjocelyn, too--'

As soon as Mrs. Frost understood whom Lady Conway designated as her brother, she drew herself
up, and said, coldly, that Lord Ormersfield had no church patronage, and no interest that he
could exert on behalf of her grandson.

Again, 'it was most unlucky;' and Lady Conway proceeded to say that she was the more bound
to act in opposition to her own feelings, because Mr. Mansell was resolved against bequeathing
Beauchastel to any of his cousinhood who might marry a clergyman; disliking that the place
should fall to a man who ought not to reside.  It was a most unfortunate scruple; but in order
to avoid offending him, and losing any chance, the engagement must remain a secret.

Mrs. Frost replied, that Mr. Mansell was perfectly right; and seemed in nowise discomfited
or conscious that there was any condescension on her ladyship's part in winking at an attachment
between Miss Conway and a Dynevor of Cheveleigh.  She made neither complaint nor apology; there
was nothing for Lady Conway to be gracious about; and when the request was made to see Miss
Conway, her superiority was so fully established that there was no demur, and the favour seemed
to be on her side.

The noble old matron had long been a subject of almost timid veneration to the maiden, and
she obeyed the summons with more bashful awe than she had ever felt before; and with much fear
lest the two elders might have been combining to make an appeal to her to give up her betrothal,
for James's sake.

As she entered, the old lady came to meet her, held out both arms, and drew her into her bosom,
with the fond words, 'My dear child!'

Isabel rested in her embrace, as if she had found her own mother again.

'My dear child,' again said Mrs. Frost, 'I am glad you like my Jem, for he has always been
a good boy to his granny.'

The homeliness of the words made them particularly endearing, and Isabel ventured to put her
arm round the slender waist.

'Yes, darling,' continued the grandmother; 'you will make him good and happy, and you must
teach him to be patient, for I am afraid you will both want a great deal of patience and submission.'

'He will teach me,' whispered Isabel.

Lady Conway was fairly crying.

'I am glad to know that he has you to look to, when his old grandmother is gone.'

'Oh, don't say--'

'I shall make way for you some day,' said Mrs. Frost, caressing her. 'You are leaving us, my
dear.  It is quite right, and we will not murmur; but would not your mamma spare you to us
for one evening? Could you not come and drink tea with us, that we may know each other a little
better?'

The stepmother's affectionate assent, and even emotion, were a great surprise to Isabel; and
James began to imagine that nothing was beyond Mrs. Frost's power.

Louis saved James the trouble of driving him away by going to dine with Mr. Calcott, and the
evening was happy, even beyond anticipation; the grandmother all affection, James all restless
bliss, Isabel serene amid her blushes; and yet the conversation would not thrive, till Mrs.
Frost took them out walking, and, when in the loneliest lane, conceived a wish to inquire the
price of poultry at the nearest farm, and sent the others to walk on.  Long did she talk of
the crops, discourse of the French and Bohemian enormities, and smilingly contradict reports
that the young lord was to marry the young lady, before the lovers reappeared, without the
most distant idea where they had been.

After that, they could not leave off talking; they took granny into their counsels, and she
heard Isabel confess how the day-dream of her life had been to live among the 'very good.'
She smiled with humble self-conviction of falling far beneath the standard, as she discovered
that the enthusiastic girl had found all her aspirations for 'goodness' realized by Dynevor
Terrace; and regarding it as peace, joy, and honour, to be linked with it.  The newly-found
happiness, and the effort to be worthy of it, were to bear her through all uncongenial scenes;
she had such a secret of joy that she should never repine again.

'Ah!  Isabel, and what am I to do?' said James.

'You ask?' she said, smiling.  'You, who have Northwold for your home, and live in the atmosphere
I only breathe now and then?'

'Your presence is my atmosphere of life.'

'Mrs. Frost, tell him he must not talk so wrongly, so extravagantly, I mean.'

'It may be wrong; it is not extravagant.  It falls only too far short of my feeling!  What
will the Terrace be without you?'

'It will not be without my thoughts.  How often I shall think I see the broad road, and the
wide field, and the mountain-ash berries, that were reddening when we came; and the canary
in the window!  How little my first glance at the houses took in what they would be to me!'

And then they had to settle the haunts she was to revisit at Beauchastel.  An invitation thither
was the ostensible cause of the rapid break-up from the House Beautiful; but the truth was
not so veiled but that there were many surmises among the uninitiated.  Jane had caught something
from my young Lord's demeanour which certified her, and made her so exceedingly proud and grand,
that, though she was too honourable to breathe a word of her discovery, she walked with her
kind old head three inches higher; and, as a great favour, showed Charlotte a piece of poor
dear Master Henry's bridecake, kept for luck, and a little roll of treasured real Brussels
lace, that she had saved to adorn her cap whenever Mr. James should marry.

Charlotte was not absolutely as attentive as she might have been to such interesting curiosities.
She had one eye towards the window all the time; she wanted to be certified how deeply she
had wounded the hero of the barricade, and she had absolutely not seen him since his return!
The little damsel missed homage!

'You are not heeding me!' exclaimed Jane at last.

'Yes; I beg your pardon, ma'am--'

'Charlotte, take care.  Mind me, one thing at a time,' said Jane, oracularly.  'Not one eye
here, the other there!'

'I'm sure I don't know what you mean, Mrs. Beckett.'

'Come, don't colour up, and say you don't know nothing!  Why did you water your lemon plant
three times over, but that you wanted to be looking out of window?  Why did you never top nor
tail the gooseberries for the pudding, but sent them up fit to choke my poor missus?  If Master
Jem hadn't--Bless me! what was I going to say?--but we should soon have heard of it!  No, no,
Charlotte; I've been a mother to you ever since you came here, a little starveling thing, and
I'll speak plain for your good.  If you fancy that genteel butler in there, say so downright;
but first sit down, and write away a letter to give up the other young man!'

Charlotte's cheeks were in a flame, and something vehement at the end of her tongue, when,
with a gentle knock, and 'By your favour, ladies,' in walked Mr. Delaford.

Jane was very civil, but very stiff at first, till he thawed her by great praise of Lord Fitzjocelyn,
the mere prelude to his own magnificent exploits.

Charlotte listened like a very Desdemona.  He was very pathetic, and all that was not self-exaltation
was aimed at her.  Nothing could have been more welcome than the bullets to penetrate his heart,
and he turned up his eyes in a feeling manner.

Charlotte's heart was exceedingly touched, and she had tears in her eyes when she moved forward
in the attitude of the porcelain shepherdess in the parlour, to return a little volume of selections
of tender poetry, bound in crimson silk, that he had lent to her some time since. 'Would she
not honour him by accepting a trifling gift?'

She blushed, she accepted; and with needle-like pen, in characters fine as hair, upon a scroll
garlanded with forget-me-nots, and borne in mid air by two portly doves, was Charlotte Arnold's
name inscribed by the hero of the barricades.

Oh, vanity! vanity! how many garbs dost thou wear!

Delaford went away, satisfied that he had produced an impression such as he could improve if
they should ever be thrown together again.

The Lady of Eschalott remained anything but satisfied.  She was touchy and fretful, found everything
a grievance, left cobwebs in the corners, and finally went into hysterics because the cat jumped
at the canary-bird's cage.

CHAPTER XXII.

BURGOMASTERS AND GREAT ONE-EYERS.

  When full upon his ardent soul
  The champion feels the influence roll,
  He swims the lake, he leaps the wall,
  Heeds not the depth, nor plumbs the fall.
  Unshielded, mailless, on he goes,
  Singly against a host of foes!
                       Harold the Dauntless.

'Jem!  Jem! have you heard?'

'What should I hear?'

'Mr. Lester is going to retire at Christmas!'

'Does that account for your irrational excitement?'

'And it has not occurred to you that the grammar-school would be the making of you!  Endowment,
150 pounds--thirty, forty boys at 10 pounds per annum, 400 pounds at least.  That is 550 pounds--say
600 pounds for certain; and it would be doubled under a scholar and a gentleman--1200 pounds
a year!  And you might throw it open to boarders; set up the houses in the Terrace, and let
them at--say 40 pounds?  Nine houses, nine times forty--'

'Well done, Fitzjocelyn!  At this rate one need not go out to Peru.'

'Exactly so; you would be doubling the value of your own property as a secondary consideration,
and doing incalculable good--'

'As if there were any more chance of my getting the school than of the rest of it!'

'So you really had not thought of standing?'

'I would, most gladly, if there were the least hope of success.  I can't afford to miss any
chance; but it is mere folly to talk of it. One-half of the trustees detest my principles;
the others would think themselves insulted by a young man in deacon's orders offering himself.'

'It is evident that you are the only man on whom they can combine who can save the school,
and do any good to all those boys--mind you, the important middle class, whom I would do anything
to train in sound principles.'

'So far, it is in my favour that I am one of the few University men educated here.'

'You are your grandmother's grandson--that is everything! and you have more experience of teaching
than most men twice your age.'

James made a face at his experience; but little stimulus was needed to make him attempt to
avail himself of so fair an opening, coming so much sooner than he could have dared to expect.
It was now September, and the two months of waiting and separation seemed already like so many
years.  By the time Mrs. Frost came in from her walk, she found the two young gentlemen devising
a circular, and composing applications for testimonials.

After the first start of surprise, and telling James he ought to go to school himself, Mrs.
Frost was easily persuaded to enter heartily into the project; but she insisted on the first
measure being to consult Mr. Calcott.  He was the head of the old sound and respectable party--the
chairman of everything, both in county and borough--and had the casting vote among the eight
trustees of King Edward's School, who, by old custom, nominated each other from the landholders
within the town.  She strongly deprecated attempting anything without first ascertaining his
views; and, as the young men had lashed themselves into great ardour, the three walked off
at once to lay the proposal before the Squire.

But Mr. Calcott was not at home.  He had set off yesterday, with Miss Calcott and Miss Caroline,
for a tour in Wales, and would not return for a week or ten days.

To the imaginations of Lord Fitzjocelyn and Mr. Frost, this was fatal delay.  Besides, he would
be sure to linger!--He would not come home for a month--nay, six weeks at least!--What candidates
might not start--what pledges might not be given in the meantime!

