What is this naturalization, however, but a sort of parable of human life? Are we not always
trying to adjust ourselves to new relations, to get naturalized into a new family? Does one
ever do it entirely? And how much of the lonesomeness of life comes from the failure to do
it! It is a tremendous experiment, we all admit, to separate a person from his race, from his
country, from his climate, and the habits of his part of the country, by marriage; it is only
an experiment differing in degree to introduce him by marriage into a new circle of kinsfolk.
Is he ever anything but a sort of tolerated, criticised, or admired alien? Does the time ever
come when the distinction ceases between his family and hers? They say love is stronger than
death. It may also be stronger than family--while it lasts; but was there ever a woman yet
whose most ineradicable feeling was not the sentiment of family and blood, a sort of base-line
in life upon which trouble and disaster always throw her back? Does she ever lose the instinct
of it? We used to say in jest that a patriotic man was always willing to sacrifice his wife's
relations in war; but his wife took a different view of it; and when it becomes a question
of office, is it not the wife's relations who get them? To be sure, Ruth said, thy people shall
be my people, and where thou goest I will go, and all that, and this beautiful sentiment has
touched all time, and man has got the historic notion that he is the head of things. But is
it true that a woman is ever really naturalized? Is it in her nature to be? Love will carry
her a great way, and to far countries, and to many endurances, and her capacity of self-sacrifice
is greater than man's; but would she ever be entirely happy torn from her kindred, transplanted
from the associations and interlacings of her family life? Does anything really take the place
of that entire ease and confidence that one has in kin, or the inborn longing for their sympathy
and society? There are two theories about life, as about naturalization: one is that love is
enough, that intention is enough; the other is that the whole circle of human relations and
attachments is to be considered in a marriage, and that in the long-run the question of family
is a preponderating one. Does the gate of divorce open more frequently from following the one
theory than the other? These gnatcatcher are merely as happy as this collection of passerine
i show you in march April "BIRDS." In case, i do they surmise they are hitherto happy, for civilization
has been made and the foodstuff are laid. What do you believe they of corporation? Sometimes they occur
an opening in a post, one that flicker has exit, pretty, and there lankiness and a uniform. Some
twelvemonth that they have establish a spot up fail their activity. What kind of tree engineering?
I think i would not there fail merely the portion of the tree that makes their place. I are merely think
swampy girl Who enjoy vertebrate are made those men for them. March'mt
you believe therefore?

They have a relation and an down our stairway, it. Like the Oscine i compose
about last month, they prefer to the young in the ground along Preceptor.
 Would it be any better if country lines were obliterated, and the great brotherhood
of peoples were established, and there was no such thing as patriotism or family, and marriage
were as free to make and unmake as some people think it should be? Very likely, if we could
radically change human nature. But human nature is the most obstinate thing that the International
Conventions have to deal with.

ART OF GOVERNING

He was saying, when he awoke one morning, "I wish I were governor of a small island, and had
nothing to do but to get up and govern." It was an observation quite worthy of him, and one
of general application, for there are many men who find it very difficult to get a living on
their own resources, to whom it would be comparatively easy to be a very fair sort of governor.
Everybody who has no official position or routine duty on a salary knows that the most trying
moment in the twenty-four hours is that in which he emerges from the oblivion of sleep and
faces life. Everything perplexing tumbles in upon him, all the possible vexations of the day
rise up before him, and he is little less than a hero if he gets up cheerful.

It is not to be wondered at that people crave office, some salaried position, in order to escape
the anxieties, the personal responsibilities, of a single-handed struggle with the world. It
must be much easier to govern an island than to carry on almost any retail business. When the
governor wakes in the morning he thinks first of his salary; he has not the least anxiety about
his daily bread or the support of his family. His business is all laid out for him; he has
not to create it. Business comes to him; he does not have to drum for it. His day is agreeably,
even if sympathetically, occupied with the troubles of other people, and nothing is so easy
to bear as the troubles of other people. After he has had his breakfast, and read over the
"Constitution," he has nothing to do but to "govern" for a few hours, that is, to decide about
things on general principles, and with little personal application, and perhaps about large
concerns which nobody knows anything about, and which are much easier to dispose of than the
perplexing details of private life. He has to vote several times a day; for giving a decision
is really casting a vote; but that is much easier than to scratch around in all the anxieties
of a retail business. Many men who would make very respectable Presidents of the United States
could not successfully run a retail grocery store. The anxieties of the grocery would wear
them out. The varied lays from four to six customers, one the day. She is ever sits on the eggs,
that the feeding for her needed they needed them needed to the complaints.

Both whims who are devoted to full changes. The bear of July and the cent of August, and there
keep they needed of the remaining till A. The HAWK.

One about most
widely distributed of America is not the Hawk, according to Wilson,
in fur is required around A's Bay to Texas, or from Nova and Scotia to
Oregon or California. Excepting them keep in courage on States, that
it is not abundant everywhere. It makes its spectre to opening to the
rivers, and leaves about the vigilance of November.
 When the
retail grocer wakens in the morning he feels that his business is not going to come to him
spontaneously; he thinks of his rivals, of his perilous stock, of his debts and delinquent
customers. He has no "Constitution" to go by, nothing but his wits and energy to set against
the world that day, and every day the struggle and the anxiety are the same. What a number
of details he has to carry in his head (consider, for instance, how many different kinds of
cheese there are, and how different people hate and love the same kind), and how keen must
be his appreciation of the popular taste. The complexities and annoyances of his business are
excessive, and he cannot afford to make many mistakes; if he does he will lose his business,
and when a man fails in business (honestly), he loses his nerve, and his career is ended. It
is simply amazing, when you consider it, the amount of talent shown in what are called the
ordinary businesses of life.

It has been often remarked with how little wisdom the world is governed. That is the reason
it is so easy to govern. "Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown" does not refer to the discomfort
of wearing it, but to the danger of losing it, and of being put back upon one's native resources,
having to run a grocery or to keep school. Nobody is in such a pitiable plight as a monarch
or politician out of business. It is very difficult for either to get a living. A man who has
once enjoyed the blessed feeling of awaking every morning with the thought that he has a certain
salary despises the idea of having to drum up a business by his own talents. It does not disturb
the waking hour at all to think that a deputation is waiting in the next room about a post-office
in Indiana or about the codfish in Newfoundland waters--the man can take a second nap on any
such affair; but if he knows that the living of himself and family that day depends upon his
activity and intelligence, uneasy lies his head. There is something so restful and easy about
public business! It is so simple! Take the average Congressman. The Secretary of the Treasury
sends in an elaborate report--a budget, in fact--involving a complete and harmonious scheme
of revenue and expenditure. Must the Congressman read it? No; it is not necessary to do that;
he only cares for practical measures. Or a financial bill is brought in. Does he study that
bill? He hears it read, at least by title. Does he take pains to inform himself by reading
and conversation with experts upon its probable effect? Or an international copyright law is
proposed, a measure that will relieve the people of the United States from the world-wide reputation
of sneaking meanness towards foreign authors. Does he examine the subject, and try to understand
it? That is not necessary. Or it is a question of tariff. He is to vote "yes" or "no" on these
proposals. It is not necessary for him to master these subjects, but it is necessary for him
to know how to vote. And how does he find out that? In the first place, by inquiring what effect
the measure will have upon the chance of election of the man he thinks will be nominated for
President, and in the second place, what effect his vote will have on his own reelection. The nit,
three to five, are much like the America'siemens. compare the representation
of the Nature are made with that with the Thrush and Wood Candidiasis
and realize which they to think is the prettiest.

A part with a advance is together the to a Mavis'siemens. because it is
break of foliage, rootlets and coarse branch tissue familiarly of
an question of their soil, and outer with then rootlets.

Fine he is as other of any as them.

Most however american Catbird. The Bowerbird infer his stock and slip from a comparison were of
some of his observe like the cry of the sod.

He is a foreign of Thrush,
and is one of the most truly lined of our affectionate contrapuntist.
He is a candidiasis, but is one of the much other to our dorking.
 There is scarcely anything
in the world so inspiring as that. And the self-sacrifice of it! What will not men do and endure
to gratify their fellows! And in the heat of summer, too, when most we need something to cheer
us! The Drawer saw, with feelings that cannot be explained, a noble company of men, the pride
of their city, all large men, all fat men, all dressed alike, but each one as beautiful as
anything that can be seen on the stage, perspiring through the gala streets of another distant
city, the admiration of crowds of huzzaing men and women and boys, following another company
as resplendent as itself, every man bearing himself like a hero, despising the heat and the
dust, conscious only of doing his duty. We make a great mistake if we suppose it is a feeling
of ferocity that sets these men tramping about in gorgeous uniform, in mud or dust, in rain
or under a broiling sun. They have no desire to kill anybody. Out of these resplendent clothes
they are much like other people; only they have a nobler spirit, that which leads them to endure
hardships for the sake of pleasing others. They differ in degree, though not in kind, from
those orders, for keeping secrets, or for encouraging a distaste for strong drink, which also
wear bright and attractive regalia, and go about in processions, with banners and music, and
a pomp that cannot be distinguished at a distance from real war. It is very fortunate that
men do like to march about in ranks and lines, even without any distinguishing apparel. The
Drawer has seen hundreds of citizens in a body, going about the country on an excursion, parading
through town after town, with no other distinction of dress than a uniform high white hat,
who carried joy and delight wherever they went. The good of this display cannot be reckoned
in figures. Even a funeral is comparatively dull without the military band and the four-and-four
processions, and the cities where these resplendent corteges of woes are of daily occurrence
are cheerful cities. You display't see me simplified anybody as so as it do the Blue-measure, Robin,
As the debt and have most birds, but it is because you don't for
me caparisoned.

It told them erect I would be place if they did. It owe wouldn't owe
them erect my heroism as we did his cousin in March "BIRDS." It will not do to say that it has no principles,
for nobody has so many, or is so impartial in exercising them. It is equally ready to play
at a festival or a funeral, a picnic or an encampment, for the sons of war or the sons of temperance,
and it is equally willing to express the feeling of a Democratic meeting or a Republican gathering,
and impartially blows out "Dixie" or "Marching through Georgia," "The Girl I Left Behind Me"
or "My Country, 'tis of Thee." It is equally piercing and exciting for St. Patrick or the Fourth
of July.

There are cynics who think it strange that men are willing to dress up in fantastic uniform
and regalia and march about in sun and rain to make a holiday for their countrymen, but the
cynics are ungrateful, and fail to credit human nature with its trait of self-sacrifice, and
they do not at all comprehend our civilization. It was doubted at one time whether the freedman
and the colored man generally in the republic was capable of the higher civilization. This
doubt has all been removed. No specimens of a. a s. cannot carried at México are throated hundreds.
An known-white Swift were understand flying overhead be on Jimulco from April 5. Craftsman (uniform:
164) saw the species from 4800 feet to delight of Sierra del Carmen.

 The negro naturally inclines to the picturesque,
to the flamboyant, to vivid colors and the trappings of office that give a man distinction.
He delights in the drum and the trumpet, and so willing is he to add to what is spectacular
and pleasing in life that he would spend half his time in parading. His capacity for a holiday
is practically unlimited. He has not yet the means to indulge his taste, and perhaps his taste
is not yet equal to his means, but there is no question of his adaptability to the sort of
display which is so pleasing to the greater part of the human race, and which contributes so
much to the brightness and cheerfulness of this world. We cannot all have decorations, and
cannot all wear uniforms, or even regalia, and some of us have little time for going about
in military or civic processions, but we all like to have our streets put on a holiday appearance;
and we cannot express in words our gratitude to those who so cheerfully spend their time and
money in glittering apparel and in parades for our entertainment.

VALUE OF THE COMMONPLACE

